GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 612 character. The raucous membrane is always exactly destroyed to certain well-marked limits; and the edges which are formed by the mucous membrane are in all cases sharp, manifest, and well defined. They appear as if some time previously a part had been cut or punched out from the villous membrane with a sharp instru- ment, and the edges had healed, so as to present a uniform smooth boundary round the excavation which had been made. Fourthly, It is always possible to distinguish at one part of the ulcer, viz. round its edges, whether perforation has taken place or not, the submucous filamentous tissue and the muscular coat, much less extensively destroyed than the villous membrane. From this it may be inferred, that the process had first attacked the villous membrane, and, after destroying that, had proceeded to the fila- mentous and muscular. In some instances, only a portion of the villous coat is destroyed, and the bottom of the ulcer is then form- ed by the filamentous and muscular layers, yet comparatively un- injured. In other instances, however, all the tissues are destroyed down to the peritoneum, in which perforation takes place. In the fifth place, the villous membrane forming the edges of the ulcer is often quite free from redness, vascularity, or thickening, and is always completely without either tubei’cular deposition, irre- gularity, or hardness, such as might be expected in scirrhus. The surrounding structure of the stomach is in appearance healthy and unchanged. Sometimes, however, the margins are a little thick- ened, firm, and sharp, and more or less opaque; and the surround- ing mucous membrane is for some space thickened and of a deep fawn-colour ;—changes which depend on effusion of lymph and the afflux of blood to the neighbourhood of the ulcer. It must be ad- mitted, in short, that the destruction of the villous membrane of the stomach must have been the effect of inflammation, originating most probably in the villous membrane, and giving rise to the ulcerative destruction when the membrane was no longer able to resist the intensity of the action. This is evidently inflammation of the sub- stance of the membrane, circumscribed in character and chronic in duration. Is there any reason to suppose that it was the result of inflammation of the submucous filamentous tissue ? or do these ul- cers originate in affection of the glands of the stomach? In the sixth place, in all these cases it is a common character, that there is at the close of the disease, inflammation of the perito- neal membrane, with effusion of lymph, in proportion as the ulce- rative process affects the peritoneum.