GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 68 immediate death, or is easily made to assume a very low, languid, and imperfect form of morbid action, which speedily terminates in death. This low degree of vital energy seems the principal if not the sole cause of the disjunctive, and, as it may be termed, the disor- ganizing character of the inflammation, of which the adipose mem- brane becomes the seat. If we compare the different elementary- tissues of the animal body, we find that the nature of the inflamma- tory process, of which each becomes the seat, bears a relation more or less intimate and direct to the nature of its organization. Al. I parts well provided with blood-vessels, and, therefore, highly orga- nized, seem to have high vital energies, and great powers of resist- ing disorganization. Parts, on the other hand, less highly orga nized, and which have few or small-sized blood-vessels, may b( said to have inferior degrees of organization, and to be less capabli of resisting the vascular perversion in which inflammation consists- Thus the skin, the serous membranes, and the mucous membranes- all of which are highly vascular, possess also great powers of resist-: ing the disorganizing effects of inflammation ; and, when these takk place, either counteract this by some supplementary process, whic inflicts no serious injury on the structure of the inflamed membrane;: and does not permanently injure its functions, or, if actual destruc tion ensue, it is not by direct death of the part, but by ,the minutt atomical absorption named ulceration ; and at the same time tli vessels make attempts, though sometimes abortive, to repair th species of destruction. My limits do not allow me to consider at length the apparei exceptions to this principle, otherwise it would appear distinct! that these were only confirmations of the fact now stated,—th; the protecting faculty of any tissue against the ravages of inflan mation depends very much upon, if it be not directly proportion to, its organization, or the size and number of its nutrient vessel This principle is also very clearly illustrated in the inflammation the adipose membrane, in which an imperfect, and, indeed, an ii ferior degree of organization seems to be the main cause of tl destructive effects of that process. In that tissue inflammation no sooner established than it proceeds rapidly to death, chiefly b cause the texture has not powerful vital energies, and is less cap blc than others of resisting the tendency to destruction. It pc sesses less of the independent form of vitality which the vascul