681 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. uterus to prolapsus and procidentia, the uterus to inversion, and the intestinal canal to invagination and hernial protrusion. VIII. Malformations.—§ 1. Lastly, Malformations are fre- quently observed in the mucous system; but it is often difficult to dis- tinguish between those which are proper, and those which are com- mon to it with collateral and subjacent tissues. Occasionally, for in- stance, parts of the mucous system in common with the other con- stituent tissues of an organ are wanting. Thus part of the alimen- tary canal may be deficient, and the urinary bladder or the rectum has been known to be wanting. In other instances, part of the mucous tissue of one organ may be so incomplete, that a direct communication with another is established. Thus the velum may be fissured and the palate may communicate directly with the na- sal passages; the vagina may open into the rectum, the bladder in the hypogastric region, or communicate directly with the rectum; or the urethra may open into the perinseum. The mechanism of malformations of this description is to be explained by the history of the development of the mucous system during the early months of foetal existence. The researches of Wolff, Oken, J. F. Meckel, and Tiedemann, show that a slight interruption given to the pro- cess of development at this period, while the cutaneous and mucous surfaces are in direct continuation upon the mesial plane, is suffi- cient to continue through life a peculiarity of structure, which be- longs only to the embryo during formation. § 2. Congenital Fistula; oftheneck.—One of the most curious exam- ples of this sort of malformation is furnished by thefistula of the neck described by Dzondi,* Ascherson,f and Meyer.J These fistulee are in general known by a very minute, almost imperceptible aperture, on the lateral surface of the neck, appearing in the angle formed by the internal head of the sterno-mastoid muscle and the sternal end of the collar-bone, or at the inner margin of that muscle. This is the external aperture. An internal one is not in all cases ob- * Carolus Henricus Dzondi, Phil,Doct. et Chir.-Doct. De Fistulis Trachea: Con- genitis, Commentatio Pathologico-Therapeutica. Hal®, 1829. 8vo. t Ferdinandus Mauritius Ascherson, M. D., De Fistulis Colli Congenitis Adjecta Fnaurarurn Branchialium in Mammalibus, Avibusque, Historia Succincta. Berolini, $ De I. issuns Honums Mammaliumque Congenitis. Aceedit Fissura: Buccalis Con- genita: cum Fissune Tub® Eustachii et Tympani Complicate Descriptio. Auctore Z2 S' Trg'rin° 1 MediCin" UtriU8qUe D°Ct0rC- Cum tabulis amcis.