SEROUS MEMBRANE. 685 face, and that of every organ so situate, one part at least, viz. that at which its vessels and nerves enter, is always uncovered. Thus the lungs are on the outer surface of the pleura ; the neart is on the outside of the pericardium; the stomach, intestines, liver, spleen, and pancreas are on the outside of the peritorusum; and the tes- ticles are on the outside of the peridydimis. In the same manner the lungs, though invested by pleura before and behind, at their apex and their base, are uncovered at their roots, or the points where the bronchial tubes and great blood-vessels enter their sub- stance ; the heart is uncovered by pericardium at the upper part of the auricular cavities; and the intestinal canal is uncovered along the whole of that longitudinal but tortuous line by which the mesentery is attached, and at which its proper vessels and nerves are transmitted. To comprehend the arrangement of the pellucid membranes still more distinctly, it is expedient, by an effort of abstraction, to trace the course of any one of them, having previously thrown out of the question the necessary means by which their interior or free sur- face is exposed. In this mental process, also, it is requisite to re- member that there is no initial point save what is arbitrarily made. If, for example, the course of the pleura be traced, the membrane presents no natural mark or boundary from which the anatomist is to commence his demonstration ; and he must fix artificially on any point which he finds most convenient for the purpose. Com- mencing with this understanding, from the circumference of the spot termed root of the lungs, the membrane may be traced first along the internal surface of the chest formed by the ribs and in- tercostal muscles, forwards to the sternum, upwards to the first rib and apex of the thoracic cavity, and downwards to the diaphrag- matic insertions, and over the surface of that muscle, and the outer surface of the pericardium again, to the circumference of the root or connection of the lungs. From this point again it may be traced over the surface and between the lobes of these organs, both of which, as already stated, are thus situate on the outside of the pleura. The course first described is that of the unreflected or ex- terior division of the pleura. The second, or that over the organ covered, is the course of the inflected or doubled portion of the mem- brane, which is thus necessarily smaller and less extensive than the former’. The arrangement thus sketched, which may he easily shown to