MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 659 other tissue save the mucous surface to explain the origin of the discharge. The truth is, that, as soon as the mucous membrane of the bladder begins to secrete puriform matter, this alters much the chemical pro- perties of the urine. Ammonia is secreted ; or rather the urea is decomposed and converted into ammonia or carbonate of ammonia, and either the urine contains ammoniaco-magnesian phosphates, 01 some other ammoniacal salt. The other effects of this disease are weight, uneasiness, and some- times tension in the hypogastric region ; heat in voiding the urine ; uneasy parched condition of the skin of the legs and feet, with burn- ing of the soles; thirst, quick pulse, impaired appetite, and general wasting. The constitutional disturbance and wasting generally prove fatal directly, or by inducing some fatal disease. Membranous substances have been observed to be discharged from the bladder by Willis, Ruysch, Boerhaave, and Morgagni. According to the account of the inspections, these are stated to be portions of the mucous membrane of the bladder. Though I feel difficulty in denying the testimony of observers so competent, I feel equal difficulty in admitting this exfoliation, which is indeed ana- logous to the exfoliations of the intestinal mucous membrane. It is equally possible, and not altogether improbable, that these mem- branous substances were albuminous concretions from the inflamed cystic membrane. ยง 3. The utero-vaginal mucous membrane of the female is not less important as a seat of morbid action. The labio-vaginal mucous membrane is often the seat of gonor- rhoeal inflammation, which seems to produce in it much the same effects as in the male urethra. In severe cases the nympha swell so much that they make, with the external labia, one shapeless mass. The vaginal membrane I have seen the seat of a thick yellow puri- form discharge, which was positively asserted to be unconnected with gonorrhoeal infection. This, however, requires further confir- mation. In all cases the membrane becomes so much swelled that the ruga are to a certain extent obliterated. The lacuna are stated to be the chief source of the discharge when thick and puri- form. The uterine mucous membrane is liable to various forms of the inflammatory process, most of which, however, may be referred to