CEREBRAL SEROUS MEMBRANE—HAEMORRHAGE. 729 verges to fatuity. At a more advanced period, not only is speech obliterated or converted into inarticulate muttering, but the patient is unable to maintain himself erect; and whenever he wills to make any motion, neither arms nor legs are obedient to his desires. This morbid action of the cerebral membranes, in short, impairs, but does not annihilate the motions of all the voluntary muscles. It induces a general but incomplete loss of power. The senses are at the same time impaired but not obliterated. The paralytic madman distinguishes light from darkness ; he hears a loud sound made at the ears; and he is sensible of pungent odours. But if the skin be touched with two bodies, the one hot and the other cold, he distinguishes no difference. Taste and ge- neral sensation are equally obtuse. In this state death is not re- mote. The duration of the affection varies according to the slow- ness or rapidity of the meningo-encephalic disorder, from which the palsy arises. Some paralytic maniacs live eight months, a year, eighteen months, and others continue two or three years, rarely longer. The average duration of life, after the commence- ment of paralytic symptoms indicates affection of the cerebral sur- faces extending to the substance, is about thirteen months. II. Hemorrhage.—Discharges of blood from the serous mem- Ibranes have not attracted so much attention as those of the mu- cous surfaces. They are nevertheless not uncommon ; and though the inaccessible situation of the serous surfaces has made their he- morrhages be overlooked or confounded with other diseases, they constitute a form of morbid action too important to be omitted. They occur in all the serous membranes, are preceded by injection, and take place by exhalation, and may be arranged in the follow- ing order. Cerebral membranes, Pleura, Pericardium, Peritonteum, Perididymis, Mervingcemia. Pleurcemia, Hcemacardia. Hcenienteria. Ilwmatorchis. ncemathoraa.-. § 1. Meningcemia.—The nature of the subject compels me re- luctantly to begin with hemorrhage of the tomentose or vascular surface of the pia mater. In this variety of meningeal hemorrhage, which has been greatly overlooked, the vessels of the attached sur- face of the pia mater become inordinately injected and effuse blood, which is deposited in the convoluted surface generally, and occa- sionally in the ventricles. Omitting some obscure accounts of this