73 ADIPOSE TISSUE. sorption is gradual as that of deposition; and the inference of Hun- ter may be regarded as nearly exact in reference to long continued, or what he terms inveterate dropsy. It is certain, that, while it is very difficult to deprive the bones of ordinary subjects of oil, those of dropscal subjects are the only ones which it is possible to obtain free from this substance. Lastly, I have to observe, that the remark of Dr Hunter is appli- cable chiefly to granular disease of the kidney, which, whether ac- companied with anasarca or not, has a remarkable effect in re- moving the fat and various other animal substances. The removal of the fat from its containing membrane is effected by the process of absorption, the agents of which are supposed by William Hunter, Portal, Bichat, and Mascagni, to be the lym- phatics. According to the results of the experiments of Magendie, Mayer, Tiedemann and Gmelin, Segalas, &c. it must, in some measure at least, be ascribed to the influence of minute veins. It is a point of some interest to know in what form it is absorbed, whether as oily matter, or after undergoing a process of decompo- sition. The observation of Hewson, of Dr Traill, and Dr Christison, above quoted, would lead to the former view; but it is not easy to conceive that this should be uniform. We want, in short, correct facts on the point at issue. 5. Adipose Sarcoma. This consists in an unusual deposition of firm fatty matter in cells, the component fibres of which are suffi- ciently firm to give its consistence. The tumour, which is gene- rally globular, is always surrounded by a thin capsule formed by the condensation of the contiguous filamentous tissue. The tumour is supplied by a few blood-vessels, which proceed from the capsule, but which form so slender an attachment that they are readily broken, and the tumour is easily scooped from its seat. This sort of tumour occurs almost invariably in the adipose membrane, and seems to consist in a local hypertrophy of the part in which it is found. It may have a broad basis, but is often pendulous, or at- tached by a narrow neck or stalk. It is the most common form of sarcomatous tumour, and may occur in any part of the body in which there is adipose membrane, but is chiefly found on the front and back of the trunk, and not unfrequently on two places at the same time. 6. Stcatoma. In adipose sarcoma the adipose matter is deposit- ed in cells, and the tumour derives a degree of firmness from the