GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 650 been seen in the stomach or intestinal membrane. The papillae and pustule-like eruptions which are supposed by some to be of this nature are evidently enlargements of the mucous follicles. 3. The variolous poison certainly produces inflammation of the gastro-enteric mucous membrane; but this consists in diffuse red- ness and injection, or red-brown patches, or both, generally with some affection of the mucous follicles.* In several instances of fatal confluent small-pox, I have seen the gastric mucous mem- brane deep red, much loaded with vessels, and patches of extrava- sated blood, and similar appearances with bloody mucus in vari- ous parts of the ileum. In the same subjects, the tracheo-bron- chial membrane was of a deep-brown colour, and highly vascular. It is, indeed, always the tracheo-bronchial membrane that is most affected in small-pox. But, excepting at the epiglottis and larynx, it presents no variolous pustules. The larynx, indeed, usu- ally presents the appearance of mere redness, roughness, and swell- ing. In one case of fatal confluent small-pox, in which the pa- tient was destroyed before the eruption came completely out, I found the whole mucous membrane of the trachea and the large bronchi covered by a thin filmy membrane like silver paper, and the membrane of the small tubes much reddened. In other cases in which the patients died with the eruption out, the whole tracheo- bronchial membrane was red, rough, covered with viscid mucus; and the small bronchial tubes effused large quantities of frothy sero-mucous fluid. These phenomena explain the severity and fatality of this dis- ease. §13. Tubercular Disease of the Ileum and Ileal Follicles.—Before concluding this division, I think it right to mention here a peculiar disorder of the ileum; though I am not certain whether it ought to be referred to the mucous membrane, the peritonceum, or the whole intestinal tunics. To illustrate the nature of the lesion I give the particulars of an instance of the disease extremely well marked. A young woman,! of twenty years, had laboured for some time under symptoms of disease of the abdomen ; and at length the ab- * “ The pharynx and oesophagus were certainly much inflamed, as was the stomach, and more or less the whole of the intestines ; but after the most diligent search, no trace whatever of the pustular action was found either in the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, or intestines.” Howship, Observations. See also Cotunnii syntagma-, &c- xliii. xlix. -f- Under the care of Dr Paterson of Leith. 4