702 general and pathological anatomy. optic commissure to the posterior margin of the annular protube- rance. It was less firm and more translucent than in the pleura or peritonaeum, but presented in other respects the usual proper- ties. This albuminous deposit I have seen take place over the su- perior and lateral regions of the arachnoid in adults, though it is much less frequent, spontaneously, than in consequence of external injury.* Albuminous exudation I have likewise observed in the arachnoid membrane of the base and lateral regions of the brain in children who have died with symptoms of meningeal inflammation, or water in the brain. Similar depositions have been remarked in various regions of the arachnoid by Parent-Duchatelet, Martinet, Bayle, and others. c. Baillieand most other observers notice, besides coagulating lymph or albuminous exudation, a serous fluid, limpid, yellowish, reddish, or brownish, according to circumstances. Though this fluid has been supposed to be derived immediately from the blood, there is no doubt, that it is the serous or watery portion of the morbid ex- udation, from the surface and interstices of which it may be seen trickling. The red or brown tint it derives from blood issuing from the newly formed capillaries opened by laceration of the lymph from the membrane. Shreds of lymph are at the same time found floating in it. This is most generally seen in the pleura and pe- ricardium. I have already stated that the exudation of inflamed serous mem- brane owes its coagulability to the presence of albuminous matter; and indeed upon the proportion of this ingredient the process of coagulation depends. In certain instances, in which the inflamma- tory process is believed to be less genuine and energetic, this prin- ciple is so scanty that coagulation is partial and imperfect; and in- stead of a uniform layer of lymph between the mutual surfaces, each presents a series of loose shreds and patches, with a conside- rable quantity of reddish, or whitish, semi-opaque fluid in the de- pendent part of the cavity. This constitutes the link between the albuminous and the purulent, sero-purulent, or serous products of inflammation in these membranes. ยง 4. Examined moi'e minutely we find that the fluid varies in its proportion of albumen in different membranes, and according to the * Clinical Report of Edinburgh Royal Infirmary for 1836-1837. Edinburgh Me- dical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xlvii. p. 305.