GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 654 sists in redness, swelling, and pain of a certain part of the canal, which thus is rendered very narrow, or even may undergo tempo- rary and partial obliteration. This affection is attended with pain- ful tension of part or the whole of the penis, suppression of urine, sometimes priapism, and consitutional disturbance proceeding at once from local irritation, and the distress occasioned by difficulty of voiding the urine, or by its total suppression. This, form of urethral inflammation should be distinguished from stricture, with which it is too often confounded. Instead of spreading along the membrane, it has a tendency to pass to the submucous tissue, and thicken it. It is probable that it may occur in any part of the canal; but its most ordinary site is the membranous portion. If properly treated, it terminates in resolution with a gleety discharge, in effusion of lymph or suppuration, not unfrequently with fistulous openings. b. Urethria pur if or mis ; Gonorrhoea ; Medorrlioea.—That the fluid of gonorrhoea is of inflammatory origin is proved by the swell- ing of the urethral orifice, the pain and tenderness of the canal, and the sore or scalding sensation (ardor urines) occasioned by the transit of the urine over it. At an early period of the art, when pathological knowledge was defective or erroneous, this discharge from the urethra was believed to consist of seminal fluid, and to is- sue from the organs by which that fluid is secreted. Afterwards, when medical practitioners understood the nature of the discharge as distinct from seminal fluid, it was believed to be purulent matter issuing from ulcers in the canal. This opinion, which, indeed, was more rational, was nevertheless completely disproved, first by Mor- gagni,* and afterwards by John Hun ter,f who showed by dissection of persons whose death had occurred while they were labouring under urethral discharge, that though minute ulcers may occasion- ally be found in the canal, they are totally unconnected with the discharge, which in the greater number of cases is secreted by the urethral membrane in a state of inflammation. According to the most accurate observations several regions of the urethral mucous membrane may without ulceration or erosion furnish puriform se- cretion. The first of these is the hollow named navicular fossa, about 1, fl, or 2 inches from the orifice, or the anterior end of the spongy * Adversaria. Anatom. Epistola xliv. 1, 2. f Treatise on the Venereal Disease, Part ii. Chap. 1.