FILAMENTOUS OR CELLULAR TISSUE. 31 which is divided and intersected into an infinite multitude of mi- nute spaces, (areola,) by slender thready lines crossing each other. This description, originally derived from personal observation, led me to apply to this tissue the name of filamentous as more ap- propriate than that of cellular, by which it is generally known. I find, however, that in this I am anticipated by Charles Augustus de Bergen, the most accurate observer who has treated of its ana- tomical structure. His description is so faithful, that it should be known to the student of general anatomy. u Alteram vero non adeo distincte saltern paucissimis, ut mihi videtur, observatam.” He alludes here to the filamentous as distinct from the adipose tissue. “ Ubi sic dicta cellulosa ex innumera atque intricatissima congerie staminvm aut filamentorum, nullatenus cellulas pingue- dinem continentes efformantium, componitur; quse tenerrima mi- rifice oblique disposita, inexplicabili adeo contentu viscerum om- nium et musculorum substantiam internam perreptant, ut nihil certi, vel microcospiis adjutus, hie effari queas; quam proin substan- tiam filammtosam vocabo.”* The interstitial spaces resulting from the interlacement of these filaments do not exist as distinct cavities in the healthy state, so that they cannot be said to contain any substance solid or fluid. But when an incision is made into this tissue in the living body, it is found, that, if we except those fluids which issue from divided ves- sels, nothing is observed to escape, but a thin exhalation or vapour, which is evidently of an aqueous nature. This is what some au- thors have termed, from its resemblance to the serous part of the blood, the cellular serosity, (Bichat,) and the quantity of which has been greatly exaggerated. In the living body it appears not to exist as a distinct fluid, but merely as a thin vapour, which com- municates to the tissue the moist appearance which it possesses. This fluid is understood to be derived from the minute colourless capillaries named exhalants; and it is supposed to be no sooner pour- ed forth in an insensible manner, than it is removed by the absorb- ing power either of lymphatics, according to the followers of the Hunterian hypothesis, or of minute veins, according to Magendie. It is of no great moment whether this process of absorption be ascrib- ed to lymphatics or to veins, or be understood, as is probably the truth, to be effected by both. It is sufficient to remark, that, what- evei serous fluid is secreted into the insterstitial spaces or cells of Caroli Augusti a Bergen, Programma de Mcmbrana Cellulosa. Francofurti ad ra rum, do 21 Aug. 17.12. Apud Haller, Disputat. Anatomic. Select., VoL III. p.