421 "WHITE FIBROUS SYSTEM. be well-founded, it may be inferred that its peculiarities consist in the anatomical and physical qualities of the texture in which I have attempted to show it is seated. Though in acute rheumatism the inflammation affects a large proportion, if not the whole of the fascial system, local forms of the disease may occur, in which it is confined with more or less accuracy to one or two fasciae. Thus inflammation of the fascia of the temporal and masseter muscles produces rheumatism of the temple and rheumatic locked jaw ; that of the occipito-frontal fascia rheumatism of the head; that of the cervical fascia crick in the neck; that of the pectoral fascia and the intersections of the intercostal muscles spurious pleurisy (plcurodyne;) that of the ab- dominal fasciae a rheumatic belly-ach ; that of the lumbar fasciae lumbago; and that of the aponeurotic parts of the glutael muscles genuine sciatica or hip-gout. 2. Fascia is liable to undergo, in consequence of the operation of certain agents, a peculiar degree of thickening and rigidity of its tissue, with contraction, which has the effect of impeding much or abolishing entirely the motions of the parts with which it is con- nected. Thus the fascia covering the joints is liable, in consequence of articular rheumatism, or that affecting the capsule and synovial membrane, to be affected by more orless thickening, rigidity, and con- traction. The most usual situation, however, in which this change is seen is the palmar aponeurosis, which becomes thickened, crispated, and shortened, and the effect of which is to inflect forcibly the ring- finger into the palm of the hand, preventing it from being extended, then the little finger, and afterwards the index and middle fingers. This change is most usually observed in those who have to make efforts with the palm of the hand in handling and compressing hard bodies; for instance, the hammer, the oar, or the whip. Hence wine-dealers, who have to pierce wine-casks, and coach-drivers, who have to handle the whip, masons and similar workmen, are liable to suffer from this disorder. Patients feel the approach of this malady by a sense of stiffness in the palm, and difficulty in extending the finger. Soon the fingers remain incurvatcd one-fourth, one-third, or one-half; in some in- stances the tips of the fingers are forcibly incurvated into the palm. At first is felt on the palmar surface of the fingers and hand the sensation of a cord, which is more tense when any effort to stretch the fingers is made, and which almost entirely disappears when the