GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 360 works of Reil,* Bichat, and Gordon, contain the most accurate information on the nervous chords in general; and that the trea- tises of Scarpa| and W utzert contain the most satisfactory infor- mation on the arrangement of those parts named ganglions and plexus. Lastly, by the microscopic researches of Ehrenberg, Tre- viranus, Muller, Valentin, Weber, and Remak, some facts, though rather discordant, have been communicated on the minute structure of the nervous filaments. Each nerve forms connections in three different ways; 1 st, A nerve must be connected to some part of the central mass by one of its extremities,—the cerebral or spinal end; 2d, It must be con- nected to some texture or organ, or part of an organ by the other extremity,—the organic end; and, 3d, It may be connected to other nerves by a species of junction called anastomosis, (owsa)— anastomosing or uniting point. By means of the two first connec- tions, it is supposed to maintain a communication between the cen- tral mass and the several organs ; and by the latter it is understood to be subservient to a more general and extensive intercourse, which is believed to be necessary in various functions and actions of the animal system. Every nerve consists essentially of two parts ; one exterior, pro- tecting and containing; the other iuterior, contained, and func- tional, forming the indispensable part of the nervous structure. The first of these, which has been known since the time at least of Reil by the name nenrilema, (vsvgon, hXeu, stXrifM, nervi involucrum,) or nerve-coat, (Nervenhaut, Reil; Nervenhulle, Meckel;) has the form and nature of a dense membrane, not quite transparent, which is found on the outside of the nervous chord or filament, and in- vests the proper nervous substance. It must not, however, be imagined that the neurilema forms a cylindrical tube, in the inte- rior of which the nervous matter is contained. This latter disposi- tion, if it actually exists, applies to the smaller nerves only, and to some of those which go to the organs of sensation,—a peculiarity which we shall notice subsequently. Any large nervous trunk, for example, the spiral or median of the arm, or the sciatic nerve of the thigh, is found to be composed * J. C. Reil, Exercitationes Anatomies; de Structura Nervorum. Haller, 1707 -j- Anatomicarum Annotationum, Lib. Prim, de Nervorum Gangliis et Plexibus. Auctore Antonio Scarpa. + De Corporis Humani Gangliorum Fabrica atque Usu, Monographia. Auctore Carolo Gulielmo Wutzer, Med. Chirurg. Doet. &c. Berolini, 1817-