490 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. first the enamel, and then the bone of the tooth, causing caries in the latter, which become blue or black, and is gradually excavated into a hole. The most frequent cause of disease of the teeth, however, is in- flammation of their internal pulp. This, which is attended by in- tense pain, by progressively destroying the membrane, impairs the nutrition of the tooth, which becomes carious in the bony pith, while the enamel cracks, and is cast off in the form of concave scales 01 crusts. The bony part thus exposed proceeds still more rapidly to destruction. It becomes excavated, breaks down, and at length is expelled in fragments. Inflammation of the membrane of the alveolar cavities also, by injuring the connecting vessels, may cause carious destruction of the teeth. But it is generally combined with more or less affection of the pulp. In the rachitic its destruction causes the develop- ment of the teeth to be checked, rendering the individual toothless. CHAPTER V. gristle, cartilage, Cartilago,— Tissn Cartilagineux. Section I. The cartilaginous system or tissue is found at least in three dif- ferent situations of the human body ; 1st, on the articular extremi- ties of the movable bones; 2cl, in the connecting surfaces or mar- gins of immovable bones; 3d, in the parietes of certain cavities, the motions or uses of which require bodies of this elastic substance. The organization of gristle is obscure and indistinct. On exa- mination by the microscope, its structure is said to be uniform and homogeneous, like firm jelly, without fibres, plates, or cells. Wil- liam Hunter, however, represents the articular cartilages as con- sisting of longitudinal and transverse fibres.* Herissant represents those of the ribs as composed of minute fibres mutually aggregat- ed into bundles connected by short slips, and twisted in a spiral or serpentine direction.! By Lassone, the articular cartilages are * Phil. Transact. Vol. XLIII. No. 470. -f- Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. 1748. P. 355.