STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—MALPIGHIAN BODIES. 801 of the circumference of the expanded portion. But this undoubt- edly has great influence, that the ligamentous substance which lies on the outside of the uriniferous tubes and strengthens their walls, passes in uninterrupted succession, usually upon the vessels going to the glomerulus, but never enters the glomerulus itself, so that the vascular net-work of the same is actually held together only by the enclosing slender proper tunic of the uriniferous ducts. In Mr Bowman’s representation of the renal texture, a misconcep- tion has accordingly happened by this, that the capsule of the glo- merulus and the expanded portion of the uriniferous duct are fully identified, while both are to be easily distinguished, though, as be- longing to one and the same organic part, they pass insensibly into each other. In the agreement in the anatomical basement of the tunica propria of the uriniferous ducts and the capsule of the glo- merulus, it is intelligible, that if the glomerulus and uriniferous ducts are separate from each other, in the first no trace of the early con- nection may be found, while the only available means thereto, viz. the position relation of both, are removed. So it is intelligible, how the glomerulus, after artificial spreading out sections of kidney and detachment from the uriniferous ducts, sometimes lies free, some- times appears surrounded by a capsule. Because this capsule is not the covering belonging originally to the glomerulus, but only touches at the neighbouring connecting tissue, which, after sepa- rating the glomerulus from the uriniferous ducts, sometimes sur- rounds the fine. Hence proceeds the statement made under these circumstances, that the glomerulus lies free within its capsule. In- deed there is here between the vascular packet, the net-work of which is more expanded, and the connecting tissue accidentally lying on the same, a free space ; while the natural capsule of the glomerulus, that is, the introverted part of the uriniferous duct lies close to the same. The term capsule of the glomerulus has also been applied, on the one hand, to the flask-shaped dilated uriniferous duct itself, because it is supposed that the glomerulus lies free in the same; and on the other hand, the connecting substance surrounding the glome ruins after preparation of sections of renal tissue might be view- S"capsule; in both co*es the true capsule would * 3 E