170 GENERAL AND TAUTOLOGICAL ANATOMY. vernous body, but that of the spongy substance, (corpus spongio- sum,) which encloses the urethra, and forms its two extremities, the bulb and gland, the clitoris, the nymphos, and the nipple of the female, the structure of the spleen in both sexes, and even that of the lips.* * * § Some are disposed to add the structure of the iris, and the peculiar plexiform network of vessels in the vagina of the female. It is somewhat unfortunate that the researches of anatomists on this erectile tissue have been restricted chiefly to the spongy body of the urethra and the cavernous body of the penis; and it is ra- ther by analogy than very direct proof, that similarity of structure between them and the other parts referred to the same head is maintained. I shall state here what is most satisfactorily known on the subject. The cavernous body of the urethra, or what is now termed its spongy body,f is represented by Haller to consist of fibres and plates issuing from the inner surface of the containing membrane, and mutually interlacing, so as to form a series of communicating cells,± into which the proper urethral arteries pour their blood di- rectly during the state of erection.§ The cavernous body of the penis is in like manner represented to be a part of a spongy nature, or to consist of innumerable sacs or ceils separated by plates and fibres, which, at the moment of erection, are distended with blood poured from the arteries, and which was afterwards removed by some absorbing power of the veins. This opinion, which was that of many subsequent anatomists, even Bichat himself,|| was derived apparently from the facility with which the blood so deposited escapes, not, as it was believed, from divided vessels, but from arcolce, or interlaminar spaces. It ap- pears, however, to have been at variance with what had been an- ciently taught by Vesalius, Ingrassias, and Malpighi, and more positively stated regarding these vessels by Hunter; and modern * Additions a l’Anatomie Generate de Xav. Bichat, par P. A. Beclard, p. 11 !i. f Haller applies the name of cavernous body not only to the structure of the penis, but to that of the urethra.—Elem. Lib. xxvii. Sect. 1. £ Elementa Physiologiaj, Lib. xxvii. sect. 1, § 33. § “ Sed et in pene, et in clitoride, et in papilla mamma:, et in collo galli indicj, nimis manifestum est, verum sanguinem effundi, ncque unquam ejus color totus de iis partibus evanescit, quffi ab effuso sanguine turgere solent.”—Elementa, Lib. xxvii. sect: 3, § 10. || Systeme Absorbant, § 3, p. 598.