GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. G42 and 4th, that though this inflammatory process in general com- mences with disorder of the circulation, and increased number of the cardiac pulse, it may commence without this, and almost always goes on when once established, without the pulse being much quick- ened, till the inflammatory process either affects the submucous tissue, or, which is nearly the same thing, begins to effect mortifi- cation of the mucous tissue. The formation of numerous ulcers in the tract of the colon may be said to indicate the chronic form of the disorder. This, from the statements of Ballingall, Bampfield, and Annesley, appears to be more common in the tropical variety of the disorder than in that observed in more temperate climates. The same change, however, was seen by Morgagni, Lieutaud, Baillie, Cooke, and others, in the dysenteric affections of the latter description. In one instance of a man of 65, who had for several weeks laboured under chronic purging, and whose body I inspected for my friend Mr Caird, I found the colic mucous membrane occupied by numerous ulcers, irregular in shape, and varying in size from the area of a split pea to that of a sixpence, and even of a shilling. The lower end of the ileum presented a few small patches of ulceration scarcely pe- netrating the mucous corion. In the caecum, on the other hand, they were deeper, and had not only penetrated this membrane, but were destroying the submucous tissue. In the ascending portion and transverse arch they had effected equal destruction, and in one or two the peritonaeum only was left. The bottom or surface of these ulcers varied according to the stage of destruction. In the least advanced, in which the mucous tissue was not entirely de- stroyed, the surface of the ulcer was a sort of pale-red or gray- brown colour. When the surface was formed by exposed submu- cous tissue it was more ashen-coloured, but with red streaks de- pending on blood-vessels. The muscular layer gave it a red or brown tint; and where the peritonaeum was exposed, it was thick- ened, reddened, and in general coated by a layer of lymph on its free surface. The edges of these ulcers, if formed of mucous tis- sue, were generally well-marked, sometimes thickened, and occa- sionally slightly turned upwards from destruction of the submucous filamentous layer. Seldom were they red; and their most prevail- ing tint was light or ash-coloured brown. The colic mucous mem- brane was generally traversed by blood-vessels at variable distances from each other. The villi were obliterated and indistinct. The