322 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. searches of subsequent inquirers. Greeting, whom I have already mentioned as having found the brain in a large proportion of cases softer than natural, found it in thirty-nine cases natural in consis- tence, firm, or even exceeding the natural firmness.* * * § He thinks, however, that this difference is more in word than reality. Of the thirty-seven cases inspected by Haslam, in nine the brain was un- usually firm, in one (24) remarkably so, and in one (29) elastic.! In all the cases given by Dr Marshall, except two, again, amount- ing to fifteen, the brain was unusually firm and generally elastic.^ The cause of this change, and the means by which it is effected are entirely unknown. It is conjectured that it is a result of in- flammation ; and it may be admitted as a proof of this, that the brain is almost invariably penetrated with numerous loaded capil- laries, and that more or less effusion of serous fluid is found be- neath the arachnoid membrane and in the cavities. These, how- ever, might be effects of the induration, or at least of the concomi- tant capillary injection. M. Serres has seen cases of cerebral in- jection and hemorrhage causing apoplectic symptoms terminate in induration ;§ and Lallemand,|| Bouillaud,1T and Pinel,** have found portions of the brain indurated in connection with chronic inflam- mation. But whether this is to be viewed as the result of capillary injection or of some derangement in the process of nutrition, it is at present impossible to determine. It would be desirable to as- certain chemically the exact nature of the change which takes place, and in what respect the indurated cerebral matter differs from that of the normal state. It is possible that the albuminous substance may be either changed, or in greater proportion ; but on this point no accurate observations have hitherto been made. Whatever be the agent or means of this change, nevertheless, enough is known to show that when it exists, it is in general ac- companied with an injected state of the cerebral capillaries, and * Adversaria Medico-Practica. Ludwig, Tom. ii. p. 3tise, p. 533. f Observations on Madness and Melancholy, &c. Lond. 1809. + The Morbid Anatomy of the Brain, &c. Lond. 1815. § Annuaire Medico-Chirurgicalo. || Reeherches Anatomico-Pathologiques, &c. Lettre 2xieme, cases 30, 31, p. 305 and 313. Traite Clinique et Physiologique de l’Encephalite, Obs. 40, p. 198. ** Reeherches d’Anatomie et de Physiologie Pathologiques sur les Alterations ile l’Encephale. Bulletins, &c. chez Revue Medicale, Tome vi. Paris, 1821, p. 298 and 315.