724 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The choroid plexus becomes thick, solid, and firm, and is matted into a mass with lymph effused between its folds and interstices. It may then be drawn from the ventricles and their divisions like a thick solid mass. The ventricles, at the same time, contain tur- bid sero-purulent fluid. This change commmonly affects both choroid plexuses, in all their divisions. The external effects by which it is attended are variable and not very distinctive. The patient, besides shivering and being hot and uncomfortable, is feeble, tremulous, and has a sort of paraplegic appearance in the lower extremities, and sometimes of the whole person. The patient has a stupid look, complains little, except of weight of the head, and weakness of vision or blindness. In some instances he is at first affected by ringing in the ears, and is after- wards deaf. At length speech is imperfect; great weakness follows, generally with coma; and after some hours of this, death ensues. § 8. Chronic Meningeal Inflammation. The pathological causes of insanity.—However general be the opinion, that mental derange- ment may exist independent of anatomical change in the state of the brain or its coverings, we find in the writings of various au- thors, and in the results of anatomical inspection, ample proof of four facts; that, though mental derangement may, in first attacks and in cases of short duration, depend on some dynamical change in the circulation of the brain or its membranes, yet when long continued, it is always connected with some change in the organi- zation of these parts; that mental derangement, as commonly observed, is usually connected with a morbid state of the mem- branes, or the brain, or both; that most abnormal changes give rise, sooner or later, to confusion of thought, incoherent ideas, and insane actions; and that deranged intellect is one only of several symptoms which may occur in consequence. Already, when enu- merating the morbid changes incident to the brain, I have alluded occasionally to several of those which may induce insanity. I am now to advert to states of the cerebral membranes, which, there is every reason to believe, are a very uniform cause of that malady. The elaborate inspections of G reding, to whom I have had occa- sion formerly to allude, afford the first traces of comprehensive views on the abnormal states of the brain and its coverings, in the persons of the maniacal and epilcptico-maniacal insane. Accord- ing to the researches of this physician, the pia mater and arachnoid membrane are rarely sound in those affected with insanity. In