BONE. 441 nomena of ossification as a process of repair. This, however, is in- troduced more properly under the next section. The teeth, as a variety of bone, demand attention. Every tooth consists of two hard parts; one external, white, uniform, somewhat like ivory, the other internal, similar to the compact structure of hone. The first, which is named enamel, is seen only at the crown of the tooth, the upper and outer part of which consists of this sub- stance. It is white, very close in texture, perfectly uniform and homogeneous, yet presenting a fibrous arrangement. Extending across the summit of the tooth in the manner of an incrustation, it is thick above, and diminishes gradually to the root, where it dis- appears. This fact is demonstrated by macerating a tooth in dilute nitric acid, when the bony root becomes yellow, while the crown remains white. The enamel is not injectible, and is therefore believed to be in- organic. It is also filled and broken without being reproduced; nor does it present any of the usual properties which distinguished organized bodies. The piercing sensation which is communicated through the tooth from the impression of acids seems to depend on the mere chemical operation, and not on the physiological effect. Upon the whole, the enamel is to be viewed as the result of a pro- cess of secretion or deposition, hut as inorganic entirely. The bony part of the tooth is the root and that internal part which is covered on the sides and above by the enamel. It con- sists of close-grained bony matter, as dense as the compact walls of the long bones, or the petrous portion of the temporal hone. The fibres which are said to be seen in it are exactly of the same nature as those in bone. In the interior of the bony part of each tooth is a cavity which descends into the root, and communicates at its extremity with the outer surface by openings corresponding with the number of branches into which the root is divided. This cavity, which is larger in young or newly formed teeth, and small in those which are old, contains a delicate vascular membrane, which has been named the pulp of the tooth. It is best seen by breaking a recent tooth by a smart blow with a hammer, when the soft pulpy mem- brane may be picked out of the fragments by the forceps. It then 1 appears to be a membranous web with two surfaces, an exterior adheiing to the bony surface of the dental cavity by minute vessels;