252 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. on the inside of the linear furrow is much smaller, and often less distinctly marked than the outer. In ordinary circumstances it may be described as an eminence of cerebral matter contained be- tween two circular segments, in such manner that its longitudinal extent, which is nearly vertical, is greater than its transverse. It is obviously connected with the smaller limb of the optic tract. Whether this body actually takes its origin from the four eminen- ces {corpora quadrigeminal) depends on evidence of a different de- scription. The inner or mesial side of the geniculate bodies is contiguous to the four eminences, and is separated from them by a linear fur- row. These eminences occupy the upper surface of the protube- rance, and partly that of the limbs of the brain, and the linear fur- row marks the point at which the limbs issue from the substance of the optic couches. The lower surface, indeed, of these bodies pre- sents the long thick cylinder of the limbs ; and while they occupy this conspicuous situation, and a considerable proportion of the lower surface, it is impossible to assign them more cerebral space above, than that occupied by the upper two of the four eminences (nates,) and the adjoining part of the optic couch. This view of the objects occurring in this region of the figurate surface, will show the formation and arrangement of the inner border of the communication. It will be seen that it consists of successive portions of that figurate surface, proceeding from the mesial line, on each side to the lower and outer margin of the cere- bral limbs. It will be seen, that, if we begin at the longitudinal furrow of the four eminences, we find first the upper eminence of one side; then the contiguous part of the optic couch ; then the greater geniculate eminence; after this, as the cylindroid process pursues its winding and revolute course, the outer part of the cere- bral limb; and, lastly, the outer and lower angle of that limb. Not only, however, does the convoluted surface of the brain communicate with the figurate one, but the laminated surface of the cerebellum communicates with the analogous surface of that organ, and thus with the great figurate surface. This communi- cation takes place on the middle plane, below the transverse or middle plates which form the pyramid, uvula, and nodule, and be- tween these bodies and the restiform processes. This is the fourth ventricle of anatomical writers; and as it has never been denied that it communicates with the outer surface of the cerebellum, it is