HETEROLOGOUS GROWTHS. 909 instances of large cysts like those of the acephalocyst, they may not belong to the same animal. In this instance the mode of generation is different. In the echinococcus, the young animal is formed between the layers of the parent cyst, and is detached from the external surface of the inner layer. § 16. Hygroma.—It is doubtful whether serous cysts are formed in the liver ; and it may be argued that any instances of this kind are to be referred to the head of Hydatids, especially that named the solitary acephalocyst. The circumstance is certainly not com- mon, and not very well authenticated. Cases referable to the head of Cysts are nevertheless recorded by Dr Todd,* and Dr Stocker.f An instance is believed to be given by Dr Hesse, in Horn’s Archiv, in which a female of 42, unmarried, was affected, some years after a fall on the right hypochondre, with a fluctuating swelling as large as the head of an infant. This tumour was punc- tured ; and large quantities (five pounds) of serous fluid escaped without any trace of relics of hydatids. The patient did not recover, but died one year after the operation. It was then found that the liver was very much enlarged; and that the right lobe contained a large cyst, which, when divided, allowed to escape twelve pounds of serum, at first watery, then turbid and flocculent.J Mr Caesar Hawkins describes certain encysted tumours as form- ing on the maigin and at the. surface of the liver, and occasionally sinking into its substance, and seldom exceeding the size of a fil- bert, or, at most, a walnut. These tumours contain clear semi- transparent or pellucid liquid, scarcely coagulable by heat, and in which there is found a peculiar animal matter, named by Dr Mar- cet muco-extractive.§ According to Mr Hawkins, these cysts rarely secrete purulent matter ; and when this fluid is formed in them, it is not of a healthy § 17. Heterologous Growths.—A. Of these it has been ob- served, that occasionally one or other of the encysted tumours, * Dublin Hospital Reports, Vol. i. p. 325. t Transactions of the College of Physicians in Ireland, Vol. i p H f Horn’s Archiv, Septembre und Octobre 1839. some remarks on En- ico-Chirurgical Trans-