GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 700 and may be stated in the following terms. As the lymph is effused and separated into clot or coagulable part and fluid, the former is observed to be soon penetrated by minute red vessels, which may be demonstrated by injection, and the existence of which is also proved by the fact above-mentioned, that the surface of a piece of detached lymph is marked by numerous blood-spots, occasioned by the rupture of the elongated capillaries of the inflamed membrane. These vessels may be traced from the latter into the extravasated substance, in which they are observed to ramify. Red spots, like effused blood, also appear through the substance of the lymph, and in the course of a few hours these are discovered to be new vessels. As this process, which constitutes the organization of the lymph, advances, the penetrating vessels become more numerous, and the lymph becomes more firmly attached to the inflamed surface of the membrane. At the same time the fluid part of the exudation oozes away and drops down to the most dependent points of the cavity, or, if not abundant, it is absorbed. In the former case it forms the serous or sero-purulent fluid, occasionally found in considerable quantities within the pleura and peritonaeum. Meanwhile the al- buminous portion becoming firmer and something opaque, the soft, pulpy, gelatinous, translucent, straw-coloured substance is gradually converted into a firm, white, opaque body, uniting more or less ex- actly the corresponding surfaces of the membrane. The new ves- sels of its interior substance at the same time contract, and ulti- mately convey only colourless fluid. The substance thus rendered organic and the seat of an incessant process of exhalation and ab- sorption, is termed membrane of adhesion (concretio, concrementum,) or false membrane. The process by which it is formed is termed union by adhesion, or simply adhesion. These phenomena are most commonly observed in the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum, in each of which they are modified according to the local peculiarities of the membrane. In the pleura it appears in the form of a broad layer, variable in thickness, extending between the convex surface of the pulmonic and the concave surface of the costal pleura; or it may occur in the spaces between the lobes; (interlobular pleurisy of Laennec); or it may be stretched between the pleura of the inferior concave surface of the lung and that of the thoracic or convex surface of the diaphragm. When the lung is affected by tubercles or tuber- cular excavations, it often occurs in the form of short membranous