658 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. or sloughing. In the case of Professor Barthez of Montpellier, recorded by M. Double,* the cavity of the organ, which contained a mulberry calculus nine lines in diameter, was diminished and filled with purulent matter ; its walls were black and sphacelated ; of mucous membrane not a trace was left, and the muscular coat was thickened.f From a similar action results the villous, fun- gating, and granular state of the bladder observed by Ruysch, Walter, Baillie, and others.:}: The anatomical characters, in short, of this disease in its exqui- site form are the following. The walls of the organ, especially its muscular coat, are thickened, hardened, and as if hypertrophied ; and the muscular thickening, as well as the cellular, may be consi- derable, that is to say, approaching to half an inch. The cavity of the organ is much contracted, sometimes not larger than the capacity of a small egg. The mucous membrane is very commonly red- dened and vascular all over or in patches; in some instances it is partially removed by ulceration ; and in some instances it is entirely removed, as if it had been dissected away from the muscular coat. This I have several times seen ; and in general the exposed surface was covered with patches of calcareous matter, which was either ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, phosphate of lime, or carbonate of lime. The effects of this process is to alter considerably the ordinary secretion of the cystic mucous membrane. The cystic mucus in the healthy state is a thin fluid, easily miscible with the urine, and so trifling in quantity, at least in the urine discharged, that it is rarely observed. What is called cloudy urine generally contains a little more of this mucous matter than usual. In the inflamed state it appears in the form of thick, opaque, viscid fluid, which falls to the bottom of the vessel, and in very severe cases it is puriform, or pu- rulent fluid, opaque and milky, but not ropy, and is occasionally reddish or streaked with blood. To account for the origin of this morbid secretion, Fanton conceived that follicles or mucous glands of the cystic membrane became inflamed, and increased their na- tural action.ยง The existence of such bodies in this membrane is nevertheless questionable; and it is unnecessary to look for any * Hist. Anatom. Med. Obs. 1224, 1266, 1270, 1272, 1274. + Journal Generale de Medecine. Nov. 1806. + F. A. Walter, Einige Ivrankheiten der Nieren und Harnblase untersucht u. s. w. Berlin, 1800. P. 31. ยง Dissert. Anatom. 1745. 4