IX. PREFACE. children described by Dr Crampton, I have not assigned a separate place in the text, from difficulty of understanding its exact nature. In some of the cases recorded by that physician, the villi seemed converted into tubercles. In others the presence of pustular ulcers not unlike small-pox seems to indicate the usual follicular disease of that membrane. And in others the granular appearance of the villous membrane appears to correspond with the usual effects of dysenteric inflammation. These appearances the ingenious author of the accouut ascribes to inflammation operating on the strumous habit.* The work of Dr Abercrombie on the Pathology of the Intestinal Canal, I did not receive till the sheets on the diseases of the Mu- cous and Serous Membranes were printed. It was therefore im- possible for me to avail myself of the researches of that acute observer. On one department of Pathological Anatomy the reader will find little or no information in the present volume. I allude to local diseases, and to those varieties of malformation which consist in misapplications of the component parts of organs. These, it is almost superfluous to remark, cannot, without violation of the prin- ciples of arrangement, be introduced in a work on General Ana- tomy ; and I have therefore, however reluctantly, excluded them almost entirely, unless so far as their general characters could be stated. Farther, it was my intention to conclude the work with an ac- count of the healthy structure and the morbid changes of the glan- dular system. I found it, however, difficult to give such a general sketch of the healthy anatomy of these organs as would be appli- cable to all without being untrue of any,—and by no means easy, without swelling a volume already too large, to exhibit such a view of the anormal deviations as would be either just or useful. This, therefore, I am obliged to defer for the present. Lastly, The limits within which it is requisite to confine this work, principally intended for the student of pathology, have com- * Dublin Reports, Vol. ii. p. 286.