WHITE FIBROUS SYSTEM. 415 The former comprehends all the distinct clusters of ligamentous structure, which sometimes in a'cylindrical, sometimes in a flatten- ed shape, connect the articulating ends of bones, and form the la- teral ligaments of the various articulations. The latter consists of those loose parcels of ligamentous fibres which are found in various regions of the skeleton, not in regular cylindrical or longitudinal bands, but irregularly connecting bones not admitting of articular motion; for instance at the symphysis pubis and the sacro-iliac junction. The division of Beclard into articular, non-articular and mixed, is more comprehensive and more natural. The first are those which connect the articular extremities of different bones. The second are those which, attached to different parts of the same bone, convert notches into foramina, as in the orbitar arch and the supra-scapular hollow, or close openings, and give attachment to muscles, as the obturator ligament. The last are those which, like the sacro-ischiatic or the interosseous ligaments of the fore-arm and leg, connect bones susceptible of little or no motion, and es- pecially give attachment to muscles. The two latter species of ligaments approach closely in their characters, physical and anato- mical, to periosteum, and are probably to be regarded as modifica- tions of this membrane. The articular or perfect ligaments are naturally divisible into two subgenera,—the capsular and the funicular. The capsular ligaments or the fibrous capsules, (Bichat), consist of cylindrical ligamentous sheaths attached all round to the ends of the articulating bones, and intimately interwoven with the perios- teal tissue. Consisting essentially of fibro-albuminous matter strongly compacted, they are surrounded by cellular tissue, or rather celluloso-adipose tissue, and are lined internally by synovial mem- brane. Though the most perfect examples of the capsular form of ligament are presented in the scapulo-humeral and coxo-femoral articulations, less complete ones, nevertheless, are seen in the other joints. In those of the knee and elbow, an arrangement of this kind may be demonstrated; and minute capsules may be shown to connect the oblique articular surfaces of the vertebrae with each other. The funicular ligaments, which consist of round chords or flat bands, are employed in connecting the articular ends of bones either without or within the cavity of the joint. Of those of the former description, the best examples are seen in the elbow and knee-joints,