GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 312 tary motion. In some instances of paralytic disorder lasting for a considerable time, instead of finding hemorrhagic cavities or de- stroyed spots in the brain, it is impossible to recognize any thing but some vascular injection and effusion of serous fluid, which doubtless proceeded from the overloaded vessels. This injection is not confined to one spot, but is diffused in different degrees through the brain, and is in some instances strongly marked in the cerebellum, annular protuberance, and the meningeal vessels to- wards the base of the organ. The effects which this state of the brain produces vary somewhat from genuine apoplectic palsy. They constitute a double but unequal hemiplegy approaching very gradually, and very often simulating paraplegia. From this, how- ever, they differ, in the lower extremities being seldom affected in the same degree and at an equal rate. It is often attended with some loss of memory, or sensation, and some slight degree of men- tal imbecility. The anatomical character of the disease may be represented as a chronic congested state of the cerebral capillaries. It may terminate either in serous effusion from the meningeal ves- sels, in softening of the cerebral substance, or in induration. In the first instance, it belongs to the head of meningeal injection, to be afterwards noticed. In the second case, it will often correspond with the creeping palsy of Dr Cheyne ; or it may give rise to epi- leptic attacks. (Morgagni, ix. 16, 18, 20, 23 : Greding, No. 49, p. 494 ; No. 42, p. 524 ; Wenzel, Portal.) In the third, it is one of the morbid states of the brain causing insanity. 8. The spinal chord is liable to the same species of vascular in- jection and hemorrhage which takes place in the brain. The ca- pillaries, which, in the sound or normal state, are small, and convey almost colourless fluid, become enlarged and penetrated writh red blood. In a stage of the process, which is to be regarded, as fur- ther advanced, drops of blood, and occasionally clots of some mag- nitude, are found deposited in the substance of the chord. These undergo and give rise to the same changes which have been al- ready described as taking place in the brain, and are a cause by no means unfrequent of pulpy disorganization of the chord. In the case given, by Gaultier de Claubry, which is the most distinct on record, the chord opposite the seventh cervical vertebra was of a deep red colour from vascular injection, but still unbroken m structure; from the seventh cervical vertebra to the third dorsal it was not only deep red on the surface, but on the substance, an