PARASITICAL ANIMALS IN THE LIVER. HYDATIDS. 907 The mode in which hydatids are formed in the liver appeal’s to be twofold. First, they may be formed in the peritoneum, and are attached to the peritoneal covering of the liver, forming round tumours, attached either to the upper or lower surface of the liver. In this case it is not unusual for Acephalocysts to be attached to the intestinal peritoneum at various points. Secondly, the hydatids may be developed within the substance of the liver ; and gradually enlarging by the prolific multiplication of their numbers, they may form irregular elevations or tumours of considerable size at the sur- face of the gland. They are said to be more common in the right lobe than in the left; but in this there seems to be nothing regular. They may occupy both lobes at once. Hydatids when thus formed may undergo changes in themselves, or they may induce changes in the surrounding tissue of the liver. In certain circumstances, the fluid which the membranous cysts contain becomes thick and jelly-like. The hydatids may die, and then the membranous coverings usually become opaque, thick, and indurated, sometimes almost horny. In both cases apparently they induce inflammatory irritation in the substance of the liver, fol- lowed by suppuration; and they may in this manner ulcerate their way outward, either into the mucous surface of the alimentary canal, the duodenum, or the transverse arch or ascending portion of the tre ; the second presenting at its two surfaces small gemmvlae or buds, very irregular and varied in shape, scarcely visible, and of the size of a hemp seed ; and in the third being covered interiorly with transparent granulations of the size of a millet seed. Though in appearance little different, these three sorts of acephalocyst are never found in the same cyst. (Bulletins de PEcole de Medecine, a Paris, an 13.) Rudolphi had read the dissertation of Liidersen and formed an opinion of it. Lii- dersen had found in the interior of hydatid cysts, as others have done, innumerable ve- sicular granules, which could not be referred to the head of Echinococci; and these therefore, after Laennec, he denominates human acephalocysts ; which,Rudolphi adds' perhaps may be admitted. (Henrici Caroli Ludovici Liidersen Dissertatio de Hydatidi- bus. Gottingas, 1808.) But if these hydatids are taken for animals, says Rudolphi, it is a mistake ; for they are void of certain organs, proper motion, and therefore of life. The acephalocyst of the hog Rudolphi refers to the head of Echinococcus. And the same, he adds, is either always or sometimes true of the human acephalocyst. “ De acephalocystide humana idem forsan semper aut quandoque valet; ipse saltern'liyda tidibus compluribus hepati debitis, ab aegro deorsum dejectis, solicite examinatis ver nnculos sed rarius in iisdem offendi.” (Entozoorum sive Vermium Intestinalium’llis- tona Naturahs. Auctore Carolo Asmundo Rudolphi, Vol. I. and II Amstelaalnml 1808 et 1810. Vol. II. part ii. 307.) . ’ De Blainville is of opinion that acephalocysts ought to be arranged neither with the 1(tema hydatiycna, or with the Cocnums or Echinococcus, but that they should be pla- ced near the Monadari* in the type of Amokphozoa. 1