858 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. is on his back. It is probable that this variety of complaint de- pends on the part of the organ most severely affected. The ag- gravation caused by lying on the left side appears to denote that the left lobe is inflamed; that resulting from lying on the right side denotes inflammation of the right lobe, each being respectively pressed by the weight over a tender and inflamed part; while the ease derived from the supine position indicates a deep-seated inflam- mation verging towards the upper obtuse margin, and the concave surface of the organ. The sickness, vomiting, and constipation are not constant symptoms ; but if present with local pain and quick pulse, denote the disease, with considerable certainty, as extending to the concave surface. The heat, thirst, quick strong pulse, and scanty high-coloured urine are merely connected with the general feverish state of the system. It rarely happens that, in this form of hepatic inflammation, there is sufficient enlargement or hardening of the organ to cause a sensible increase in the bulging of the hypochon- driac region. This only occurs towards the latter end of the dis- ease, when it threatens to terminate in suppuration, or to pass in- to the chronic form. Clark of Dominica considers inability to sneeze as a certain sign of the malady. The acute hepatic inflammation terminates, lsif, in resolution; 2d, in suppuration; 3c?, in induration or chronic inflammation. Termination by resolution is when the symptoms gradually de- cline either spontaneously or by the use of suitable remedies, and the patient is restored to health without further complaint. If the resolution be spontaneous, it is generally accompanied by some eva- cuation, for instance, hemorrhage from the nose or from the intestines, diarrhoea, critical sweating, or a copious sediment in the urine. Saun- ders states that he has seen a great increase of bronchial secretion at- tend the resolution of this disease ; and perhaps this is an instance of transfer of morbid action.* Termination in suppuration is more common, and is fatal either speedily or more slowly. In the for- mer case the right or left lobe is converted into a large abscess or collection of matter, purulent, sero-purulent, or purulent with mas- ses of flaky lymph. If the whole hepatic tissue be not destroyed in this manner, the inner surface of the abscess is somewhat irre- gular, having the appearance of an ulcer thickly covered with pu- rulent matter, or flaky lymph. The substance of the organ for about a third of an inch from the ulcerated surface appears unus- * A Treatise on the Structure, &c. p. 200.