764 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. To explain this numerous list of the different forms of glandular structure, it is necessary first to premise certain general facts illus- trating the essential characters of glandular organs, and then to at- tend to the following statements, in which a summary is given of the result of all the inquiries. The simplest idea of a gland is to be found in such organs as the pyloric appendages of fishes, the pancreas of certain fishes, as the sturgeon, and the kidneys of several of the fishes. In the first case, that of the pyloric appendages, (appendices py- loricce), which are well seen in the cod and haddock, a great num- ber of cylindrical canals or tubes with closed ends hanging free in the abdominal cavity, and with open ends communicating with the bowel are attached to the pylorus or duodenum. The number of these canals or tubes varies from 50 to 80, 150, or 200 in different genera. They are membranous, and open, as already stated, into the interior either of the pylorus or duodenum. These bodies are understood to perform the function of secreting glands. Their inner surface, which is continuous with the mucous surface of the intestine, is believed to secrete a fluid necessary to the proper performance of digestion and solution of the alimentary mass. Part of the food seems to enter them, and after being subject- ed to the action of this fluid, to be returned into the intestine ; proba- bly allowing other portions in succession to undergo the same action. This arrangement may be regarded as presenting that of a tu- bular gland. The pancreas or pancreatoid organ of the sturgeon is an or- gan in external appearance and consistence somewhat different, but in internal arrangement similar. Externally it is a thick fleshy firm mass, triangular, or pentahe- dral rather, in shape, with one apex hanging free into the abdominal cavity, and with the base attached to the duodenum. The colour of the pancreatoid organ is greenish-black, with pansy purple, in- terspersed with whitish or whitish-gray spots. Its parietes vary in thickness, according to the size of the animal, from half an inch to one inch or one inch and a half. This organ is attached to the duodenum near its pyloric end, and with this its cavities communicate by means of a large orifice placed in a recess opposite to the pyloric opening. I his orifice is circular or slightly elliptical, sufficiently large to admit the tip o the finger, and even more in large animals.