55 ADIPOSE TISSUE. their folds, often round blood-vessels, for instance between the pe- ricardium and muscular substance of the heart, between the peri- toneal folds, forming the omentum and the mesentery; 4. round each kidney; 5. between the folds of the synovial membranes; and, 6. the endosteal, or intra-osseous, or the medullary membrane within the canals of the longitudinal bones and the cells of the flat and short bones. Section II. The pathological relations of the adipose tissue have not been distinctly indicated. 1. Pimelitis. Is it subject to inflammation ? I have already said that certain facts lead to the inference, that the peculiar phenomena of diffuse inflammation may depend on the influence of the adipose membrane. This may be regarded as established by many facts. But it must be observed, at the same time, that the physical proper- ties and the physiological relations of the adipose tissue, combined with its anatomical position, exert a peculiar influence over its mor- bid states. In the first place, as the adipose membrane consists of two parts, organic or vital tissue, and an inorganic secreted substance, and as the former bears a small proportion to the latter, the vital proper- ties of the tissue are accordingly much less prominent than the mere physical properties. The component sacculi, or vesicles of the adipose membrane, are not possessed of highly or strongly marked vital powers; and the vessels distributed to them, which are neither large nor numerous, seem to be merely adequate to their nutrition in ordinary circumstances, but quite unable to main- tain the energies of the tissue when subjected to disease or injury. Pressure or stretching the adipose tissue bears very imperfectly; and when it is subjected to violence or injury of this kind along with other tissues, as skin, muscle, cellular membrane, or artery, its vitality is destroyed first, and long before these tissues are much affected. In continued fever (synochus ; typhus,) the adipose membiane of the sacral region is often killed to a large extent long before the skin is affected; and its death involves necessarily ul- ceration of the incumbent skin, in order to allow the escape of the dead adipose membrane in the form of a large flat slough. It is perhaps of no great, moment whether this imperfect and feeble vital