GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 644 the dysenteric inspections which he performed in Jamaica, describes them as true pustules, though they contain no purulent matter, and represents them as seated beneath the villous coat or in the sub- mucous tissue. Each pustule, though at first small, round, and reddish, not more than the one-tenth of an inch in diameter, gra- dually enlarges till it attains the diameter of one-fourth of an inch, becoming at the same time paler. In this stage a minute crack or fissure appears at the top, and gradually enlarges, when the con- tents of the pustule are found to be cheese-like substance. As the opening enlarges, the edges become prominent, the base grows rough, and matter sometimes tinged with blood oozes from it. This is the progress of one pustule or tubercle ; but they are ge- nerally in clusters, and may coalesce and form an unequal ulcer- ated surface with a hard thickened base.* It is impossible to doubt that these pustulo-tubercular bodies are the isolated follicles either in a state of chronic inflammation and enlargement, or infiltrated with tubercular matter, or degenerated in consequence of the long continuance of chronic inflammation. In general there are three forms under which this state presents itself. One is when the subfollicular cellular tissue becomes thick- ened, enlarged, and indurated. Another is when this tissue is infil- trated with tubercular matter. This takes place in dysentery in those of strumous habit, and in the phthisical. A third is when the follicular membrane is degenerated and converted into a hard warty sort of matter, which usually splits or is fissured on the apex. In either of these three cases the follicles are prone to undergo a spe- cies of bad and almost insanable ulceration, causing chronic diar- rhoea with great weakness and wasting. Of much the same nature are the granulations of the intestinal mucous membrane, described in the persons of the phthisical by Louis. According to this observer, these granulations are of two sorts, the semicartilaginous and the tubercular. The former, which in the cases inspected were most frequent and most numerous, were distributed equally round the bowel ; and though dispersed occa- sionally through its whole length with intervals of two or three square inches, they were generally largest and most numerous to- wards the caicum. They were not seen in the colon. Crenerally after attaining the size of a pea, the mucous membrane at top be- * Observations on the Diseases of the Army in Jamaica, Ac. By John Iluntei, M. D., F. R. S., &c. Lond. 1784. Chap. 4, Sect. 2, p. 230, 231.