MORBID STATES OF THE HEART.—'HYPERTROPHY. 1051 and certain diseases of the lungs, as consolidation and tubercular induration. Though the influence of these causes is considerable, the most general and the most powerful is original conformation ; that is, an unusually narrow pulmonary artery as to the right ven- tricle, and a narrow aortic orifice as to the left ventricle. Several instances of passive dilatation of the left ventricle, I have seen as- sociated with ossification of the aortic semilunar valves, and conse- quent arctation of the orifice. When the right ventricle is dilated, the lesion is usually connected with more or less disease of the ungs ; and the right auricle becomes at length affected in the same manner. § 7. Hypertrophy or excessive nutrition of the heart may be said to consist in increased thickness of the muscular substance of the organ, which is at the same time, in general, firmer and more dense than natural. It may exist in one ventricle only, or extend to both ; and it may be general or partial. When the left ventricle is affected, it may exceed one inch, or be even eighteen lines in thickness at the base, which is fully double or three times thicker than m the natural state. When the ventricle is generally affect- e , it is thickest at the base, and diminishes gradually to the apex- four liL?eXISf°rtlmeS Part“iPates extent of from two to lines. If the apex is affected, the disease is generally local ther instances partial thickening appears most commonly in the neighbourhood of the valves. In the case of the right ventri- cle, the increased thickness is more uniform, extending over the hole, and rendering ,t so firm as not to collapse when cut open, he pi etei natural change, however, is always most distinct in neighbourhood of the tricuspid valve, and in that pari of tU" the fehy nifilf r'f" t0 the Jral”onar5' artery- The bulk of the fleshy p, lars (columnar carneae), is always much increased • d this condition, winch is more conspicuous than in the left with e great firmness of the muscular substance, forms a striking fea tricle!" anat°miCal 0haractere hypertrophy of the right yen- for^s^accordi^^to8the^ecH^^ew^on ^h * ^ inl° ‘hree 52 i ^f centric hypertrophy; and 3d, oo^g^^ ** ~ In the hr8‘ f°™' the "al,s of one or more of the chambers of