108 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the blood escaping tear and dissect away the whole peritoneum from the subjacent muscles. The same appears to have taken place in the case given by Fantoni. Secondly, in consequence of the blood not passing through the arterial tube, the parts to which it is distributed are deprived of their nutrient fluid, and become at first cold, numb, and slightly paralytic; afterwards they become unusually hot; and gangrenous inflammation is rapidly developed and terminates in mortification. A species of complete obstruction liable to take place in arteries previously diseased, especially in the extremities, is that which takes place in cases of gangrene of the toes in the aged, (_gangrcena senilis,) and which has been described as a form of inflammation of the arteries (arteritis) by Dupuytren. The interior of the artery is filled with clots of blood, generally firm and solid, and often ex- tending through the greater partor the whole of the arterial trunk. Thus it may extend through the femoral artery from the ligament of Poupart to the loin, and sometimes the tibial and femoral arte- ries are filled with solid clots of blood of the same kind. The ar- terial tube is generally firm, indurated, penetrated or lined by atheromatous or steatomatous specks or osseous matter, indicating that it has been in a state of chronic inflammation. This disease, therefore, is to be considered rather as an effect of chronic inflamma- tion than acute inflammation. In general the first indications of the formation of coagula, are pains in the limb, numbness, and then the artery is observed to have ceased to beat. This is followed by the usual symptoms of gangrenous inflammation ;—pain, heat, redness, lividity, 'phlyctaenae or vesications, and death ol the limb, followed by general death. In milder cases, one or two toes only, or the foot may be affected, and the limb with life is saved. A species of obstruction apparently complete, though in several instances temporary in duration, I have seen take place in the ar- teries of the extremities. A female, between 20 and 25, labour- ing under rheumatism of the ankles and wrists, with slight indica- tions of affection of the pericardium or endocardium, was suddenly attacked with numbness and loss of power and sensation in the left arm; and when it was examined no pulsation was recognised either in the radial artery or the humeral, to within two inches of the axilla, or in the ulnar artery. These sensations were attended with weight of the arm and occasional pains, pricking and lancinating. Warmth was applied externally. The symptoms, however, con-