BRAIN. 289 gan. (Pigray, Quesnay, Petit, Chopart.* For example, several weeks or months after a blow on the upper or fore part of the head) from which the patient never perfectly recovers, but is more or less paralytic, perhaps occasionally lethargic, deaf, blind, or fatu- ous, death takes place, and an abscess is found in the substance of the hemispheres, in the corpus striatum, or even in one of the lobes of the cerebellum. 3d, In some instances of suppuration after in- jury, the collection does not take place at the part at which the blow struck the skull, but either in the line of the force passing through the brain, or in some of the lines into which this force may be resolved. 4th, It is chiefly when the force has been direct- ly expended on the part, i. e. when the bone has been immediately broken, and its membranes injured, that suppuration takes place on the surface of the brain. This suppuration is then the result rather of the affection of the membranes, especially of the pia mater, than of the cerebral substance itself.f Suppuration may take place in any part of the brain ; but it is most frequent in the hemispheres. The effects which it produces vary according to the situation and the extent of the purulent col- lection. They are much the same as from the presence of blood, tumours, or other unusual substances. In the circumstances now mentioned, purulent collections are the result of primary inflammation, spontaneous or traumatic. I must further repeat explicitly what has been already said, that they take place in a secondary manner in fever. Collections of purulent matter within the brain after fever were first distinctly found by Pringle, afterwards by Borsieri and Eisfeld,J and .more recently by Jackson and Mills. These are doubtless the effects of inflam- mation, which, however, is, in this case, a secondary and adventitious circumstance in the progress of the disease. These, nevertheless, and similar phenomena, have been conceived to afford evidence that fever consists in inflammation of the brain. It is unnecessary to examine the origin of this theory; the first traces of which may be found in the writings of Willis, Werlhof, * M6moire sur les contre coups dans lcs lesions de la tetc. Par M. Chopart. Mc- moires pour le Prix. dc la Academie Royale de Chirurgiei Tom. XI. 12mo. "t I raite des Plaiesde Tetc, et de l’Encephalite, principalement de cello qui leur est consecutive, &c. Par J. P. Gama, Officier do la Legion d’Honneur, Chirurgien en Chef, &e. Paris. 1830. 8vo. J J. F. A. Eisfeld Meletemata, Qucedam ad Historiam Naturalem Typhi Acuti Lipsia; astivo tempore, anni 179.9, grassantes pertinentia. § xviii. p. 7'2, &c. apud Brera, Vol. VI. p. 1. T