GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMV. 60 existence of clammy moisture. The urine is scanty and clear till the close, when it becomes sedimentous. No cathartic medicines, however powerful, can produce feculent discharges from the intes- tines, and all that escapes is a watery secretion with minute black specks, grains, and patches of undecomposed bile, without the cha- racteristic feculent odour or aspect. The peculiar characters of this form of fever have procured for it, from Dr Butter* the name of Irritative, and from Mr Travers,! that of Constitutional Irritation; denominations which may be per- fectly correct, if they either denoted a new form of general disor- der, or established as a new principle in po.thology, the circumstance, that when any individual texture is in a morbid state, it gives rise to derangement, perversion, and irregularity, in the motions of the sanguiferous system and the dependent secretions. It appears to me that there is in this nothing new nor even singular, when we know, that it is an established principle in physiology and patho- logy, that all the textures of the animal body are so allied, that one cannot be long in an unhealthy state without inducing general dis- order, and that all the properties and actions of these textures are so intimately associated, that those of one organ are almost never impaired or perverted, without betraying the existence of this im- pairment or perversion, by disorder in the motions and actions of the sanguiferous system, and, its great dependent, the secreting ap- paratus of the different organs. The disease, however, is not in all cases a simple and exclusive affection of one tissue; and the singular feature of this inflamma- tion is, that, either simultaneously or successively, it affects a con- siderable number of different tissues. It hence results that the con- comitant symptoms are by no means uniform, and assume various types according to the tissues affected. Thus, in inflammation of the adipose tissue, the disease is very liable to attack the filamentous tissue, which it disjoins and destroys in the manner already described. It also very commonly attacks the veins; and the symptoms are then complicated with those of venous inflammation; and may eventually give rise to the second- ary suppurations observed to ensue on that disorder. The venous * Remarks on Irritative Fever. By John Butter, M.D., F. R. S., &c. Devonport, 1025, Ovo. pp. 302. . . o -|- An Inquiry concerning Constitutional Irritation. By Benjamin 1 ravers, r. u.». London, 102G, Ovo, pp. 5.56.