MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 678 flocculent tomentose structure, which is well seen by immersion in water, in which it generally floats. It occurs also in the throat; and polypi of the same description I have removed ti ora the external auditory hole. Ruysch observed them growing in the maxillary sinus, and proceeding through the passage below the spongy bone into the nostril,—a fact which I find verified by an observation of M. Giles.* The same sort ol tumour is occasionally found in the vagina ; and it is a remarkable proof ol the general tendency to the formation of these productions, that in some indi- viduals I have seen them occur at the same time in the nasal and vaginal mucous membrane. The formation of this variety of polypus is ascribed by Morgagni to abnormal development of the mucous glands;f a theory in which he is followed by Plenck.ij: 1 his, how- ever, is too exclusive, and is not applicable to all cases. 2. The name of polypus is also given to a firm fleshy incompres- sible mass, oval, spheroidal or pyriform, opaque, dark red or purple in colour, sometimes with narrow, sometimes with broad and mul- tifid basis. This form of polypus, which is not influenced by the weather, is observed to occur in the pharyngeal or oesophageal mu- cous membrane, (Monro), in that of the stomach, (Morgagni,§ Monro,|| Granville ;1f) in the intestines, in the colon, and rectum, (Rhodius, Fanton, Portal, Monro.) In the case of M. Paulo, re- i corded by Portal, two fleshy concretions as large as the fist were voided during life ; and after death, which was preceded by hectic and wasting, in the ascending and transverse colon were found four polypous tumours, each as large as a nut, and two smaller ones at- tached to the mucous membrane.** A good example of polypus of the rectum is recorded by Dr Monro, tertius.ff In the bladder they are mentioned by Warner, Baillie, and Walter. Instances of uterine polypus, (cercosis, Plenck,) are recorded by Mauriceau, Lamotte, Morgagni, Licutaud, Levret, Sabatier, Baudelocque, Denman, and Clarke. From these it results, that though polypus occasionally originates from the mucous membrane of the fundus, it more frequently grows from the inside of the neck, or from the os tincce itself. Upon the nature or the mode of development of this variety of polypus nothing satisfactory is known. It appears to * Phil. Trans. No. 226, p. 472. f Epist. xvi. 36. + Causa polypi proxima est papilla: pituitaria: excrescentia seu vegetatio mor- bosa.” Systema Tumorum, Classisiii. p. 173. § Epist. xiv. 17, 18. || Morbid Anatomy, p. 189, pi. vi. H Med. Rep. Aug. 1817. ** Anatomie Medicalc, Tome v. p. 213. ++ Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, p. 192. U U