GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 298 This doctrine is not, however, altogether free from objection. By M. Serres especially it has been said that hemorrhagic cavities are formed in the fore part, the middle, or the posterior part, of the hemispheres, without affecting the thalarni or striated bodies, much more frequently than is represented by Bonetus, Morgagni, and Rochoux. I find from examining the cases of Howship, Lerminier, Serres, Tacheron, and others, that this is not entirely without foun- dation. Of 6 cases of cerebral hemorrhage given by Lerminier, 3 are in the hemispheres, 1 in the right optic thalamus, one in the left optic thalamus, and 1 in the left corpus striatum.* * * § Of 7 cases of cerebral hemorrhage given by Serres, two are in the centre or posterior part of the left hemisphere, 1 in both hemispheres, 1 in the left hemisphere and in the mesolobe, and 3 in the annular pro- tuberance.! Among 19 cases of cerebral hemorrhage or its effects, recorded by Tacheron, 5 were in the right hemisphere, and 4 in the left, 2 were in the posterior part of the right hemisphere, 2 in the substance of the optic eminences, 2 in that of the striated bo- dies, 1 in the mesolobe and adjoining part of the left ventricle, l in the annular protuberance, 1 in the optic eminence and striated body at once; and in one, in which the last extravasation took place in the right optic thalamus, one cyst was found in the neighbourhood of the cylindroid eminence, another in the centre of the left optic thalamus, and a third in the annular protuberance. J Upon the whole, we are in possession of few very accurate ele- ments to determine this question. From the authentic cases, how- ever, which I have perused, for it is in vain to draw conclusions from individual observation only, I think there are grounds to infer, that, next to the striated nucleus, the hemispheres are the most frequent seat of cerebral injection and hemorrhage. It is worthy of remark, that the extravasation, when it takes place, docs so chiefly on the outer side of the lateral ventricle, generally towards its posterior end, and in that portion of brain which forms the ex- ternal-lateral boundary of the optic thalamus, separated from the ventricle by a thin plate. Into the ventricle it rarely takes place primarily; and when blood is found there, it is the result either of bloody extravasation in the hemisphere breaking down the floor,§ * Annuaire Medico-Chirurgicale, p. 213, et ensuite. + Ibid. p. 324, §. xi. et ensuite. £ Reeherches Anatomico-Pathologiques, &c. par C. F. Tacheron, Doct. a Medecine, &c. Tome lllme. Paris, 1823. Ordre 4trieme, 2ieme genre. Case 31st. § Howship, Case 15, 19.