MUSCULAR TISSUE. 405 was of a light yellow colour, yet preserving the fibrous texture of muscle ; and it presented purulent matter at the surface of the vari- ous sections made in it. In some parts were observed small cavities filled with purulent matter, varying from the size of a pin-head to that of a small pea. The pericardium was unusually vascular; a state ascribed by the author to inflammation, but its surface presented no lymph.* It is probable that the inflammatory state of the cardiac muscular fibres had spread to the investing membrane. All these cases, it must be admitted, afford examples of inflamma- tion either of the muscular substance of the heart, or of the connect- ing filamentous tissue, or of both. Indeed, it is not easy to conceive the one tissue to be inflamed without the other ; and whether we say that the inflammatory process begins in the filamentous tissue, and thence spreads to the muscular, which is probable, or begins in the muscular tissue and spreads to the filamentous, the result is the same. It is impossible therefore to doubt, that the muscular substance of the heart is liable to be affected by inflammation, and its most common product suppuration; and from the cases now recorded it seems to result, that the inflammation is often very acute and rapid in progress, and in other instances is slow and more chronic. The process also appears sometimes to attack the whole organ; in other instances only one part of it, or after attacking the whole, to become concentrated on one point. Lastly, Bouillaud gives various examples of what he denominates Inflammation of the substance of the heart. His views, however, on this subject are so peculiar, that I think they may be more properly introduced under a different head. Aneurism of the heart he con- siders as the effect of inflammation. Abscess and ulceration of muscular tissue are the result of local or punctuate inflammation. In the former case, a cavity, with smooth walls, containing purulent matter, is formed in one region of the muscular substance. In the latter a rugged irregular sur- face, produced by ulcerative absorption or erosion, takes place near the surface of the muscle. The examples of both forms, as they take place m the heart, are the most interesting to the pathologist. Of abscess in this organ, instances are given by Poterius, Benive- mus, Cornax, Nicolaus Massa, Fantoni, and Laennec. Of ulcers Tf0mf ES* Suree°"> Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions, Vol. XXII. p. 72. London, 1839.