PATHOLOGY OF METASTATIC ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. 869 dance to this organ, and returns in greater quantity by the jugular veins; so that while a large stream is brought downwards by these veins, and a considerable quantity of blood is conveyed by the supei ioi vena cava against the inferior, the blood of the latter is made to regurgitate and accordingly pass into the vena cava hepatica. and its tributaries; and in this manner, more blood than the liver is capable of admitting being thrown on the vessels of that oigan, inflammation follows, and terminates in suppuration and gangrene, the former most commonly.* This theory was favourably received by the French academicians, especially David; and was illustrated and commended bv M. An- douille.f y The justice of this hypothesis was questioned in this country by Cheston, and in France by Pouteau. Cheston expresses his general belief of the improbability of the disturbance in the circulation assumed by Bertrandi, and has re- course to three suppositions in order to explain the occurrence of hepatic suppurations after injuries of the head. Is*, Abscesses may exist in the liver after an injury received on the head, without be- ing derived or occasioned by falling, from the head to that abdomi- na viscus. 2d, Abscess in the liver may be the result of transla- ions o matter liom one part to another, as are frequently observed after amputation of the larger limbs. 3d, In severe injuries of the lead, the f unctions of the liver are injured by sympathetic irritation o its vesse s and neighbouring parts from the diseased state of the am ; and this disorder may cause obstruction, terminating in lo these Cheston adds as an accessory circumstance, that, in hew/b *Wh'Ch ,‘lle bra‘n suffers> as by falls some height, being thrown violently from a horse, the body must re- cerve a severe shock, which may not only aggravate the injury inflicted on the head, hut, from the size and soft pulpy texture of no' iSf'1 r ,U"Ct'°ns °f that viscus in particular, and thereby not a little assist in confirming those obstructions which afterwards could not he terminated but by suppuration.t * Sur les Absces du Foie cini se fnrmpnt „ iv. . M. Bertrandi. Memoires de l’Academie de ChirurffiTT" ' CS..pla}jCS de Ia tete‘ Par + Observations sur Jes Absces du FdeparMTA ?V'"t 484< Paris’]757- ,nie de Chirurgie, Tome iii. p. 506. Paris 1757 ' ° Memoircs de pAcade- W in Sury from t,ie ^ P. 32-42. itichard Brofrne Cheston. Gloucester, ] 766. 4to, chapter iii.