779 STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—LIVER. tion. The granular inner layer presents at the apex some ramifi- cation ; which evidently has the aspect of mucous cavities. On the fourth day, the vascular layer is still farther removed, and resembles semitransparent jelly ; the liver is divided into two flat bodies, which surround like plates the portal vein. In these plates both hepatic ducts undergo further ramification, but at the same time at a greater distance from the bowel, so that most com- monly they are united at the bases, and at the end of the fourth day are wont to form one common canal. After this the progress is similar, only to render the vascular and secreting parts more distinct. On the eighth, ninth, and tenth day, the gall-bladder appears. In short, the liver is formed in the following manner: by ever- sion of the internal tunic of the intestinal canal into the vascular layer, whence a double excavated cone arises. These two excavated cones are then ramified internally, though united at the base the common basis being, as it were, prolonged from the intestinal wall until the two orifices open in one common orifice. In the Mammalia, the terminations of the biliferous ducts end exact y as in birds, free and in shut extremities ; but in their in- ternal union they seen, to differ in each, so that in some the elon- hated actm are joined in the pinnatifid manner, in others like leaves, and in others irregularly. Next to the arrangement, disposition, and form of the secretino- ducts comes that of the blood-vessels. § The branches and twigs of the portal vein everywhere rise to the surface of the liver, and follow chiefly the distribution of the Mb erous ducts ; while the branches of the hepatic artery traverse the surface in a peculiar manner. Of the twigs of the portal vein it is pecu lar cl aracter, that they are more conical; while the arterial igs imimsh their diameter very gradually, and are distributed in VS £ m***• that * * " - distinguish gated^nd^ofThef bilhfermas^ducte.^ * moreininute than theelon- The smallest blood-vessels in the embryo of Birds and ; of tritons and frogs, are not distributed * n the larvce rous ducts; but fun in the intmwaTs bet" 7 ? hm~ sprouts. " uUween their bundles and Tiier 'e is no -'Ct communication between afferent vessels, wl.e-