GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 498 the cuticle or scarf-skin. When this with the fluid is removed, the surface under these appears black; but if the blister had been very stimulating, another membrane, in which this black colour resides, would also have been raised with the cuticle. This is rete mucosum, which is itself double, consisting of another gray transparent mem- brane, and of a black web very much resembling the pigmentum nigrum of the eye. When this membrane is removed, the surface of the true skin, as has been hitherto believed, comes in view, and is white like that of a European. The rete mucosum gives the co- lour to the skin ; is black in the negro; white, brown, or yellow- ish in the European.”* Cruikshank distinguished the membranes spread over the sur- face of the true skin into five, each of which he conceived are cu- ticles or secretions from the outer surface of the skin, undergoing transformation into cuticles. The first and most external of these is the cuticle or epidermis, properly so named, that is the completed covering investing the whole, and which is semitransparent. This is constantly rubbed off or falling off in scales; and its place is as constantly supplied by layers arising from and secreted by the next covering. This is the rete mucosum, which according to Cruikshank is double, consisting of an outer or consistent layer, and an inner or softer, and which is secreted by the vascular surface of the true skin. These two with the cuticle proper form three coverings. The next or fourth is more equivocal in existence. It is a vas- cular membrane spread over the outer surface of the true skin, which becomes most distinct in various cutaneous inflammations, as small-pox, measles, and scarlet fever. In this the small-pox pustules are situate ; and certainly it seems to form the layer in which these pustules are first developed. Lastly, when a piece of skin has been macerated, and this fourth vascular membrane is removed, it is possible to observe a fifth rest- ing immediately on the surface of the true skin. These distinctions seem rather minute. The cuticle is probably one membrane only secreted by the rete mucosum as it is required ; the external layers being hard and firm, the inner soft and pulpy. The rete mucosum is evidently a secretion from the outer vascu- lar surface of the skin. With regard to the other two they seem to be the external surface <* Experiments on the Insensible Perspiration of the Human Body, showing its affinity to Respiration. By William Cruikshank. London, 1795, p. 3 and 4.