LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, &C. 211 Little doubt can be entertained, that by these authors the in- fluence of the lymphatic vessels has been very much overrated. Notwithstanding the authority of their names, it is certain that neither anatomical inspection, nor the observation of the pheno- mena and effects of disease, justify the views advanced by these authors. It further requires little argument to show, that this mode of explaining the formation and nature ot diseases does not tend to the advancement of accurate pathological knowledge. All the diseases to be referred to this head come naturally under two divisions. The first consists of disordered states occurring in the lymphatic vessels themselves. In the second are included mor- bid states of other textures or systems, arising immediately from disease of the lymphatics. 1. Inflammation,— (Angioleucitis^) The first morbid state to be mentioned as incident to the lymphatics is inflammation. As a spontaneous occurrence it is little known, and perhaps is exceed- ingly rare. Hendy, indeed, undertook to show, that inflammation of the lymphatics was the pathological cause of Barbadoes leg ;* and this view, which has been almost implicitly adopted by every subsequent observer, has been strenuously maintained and illus- trated by M. Alard.f I have already adduced such facts and ar- guments as I conceive are sufficient to show that this disease de- pends on a peculiar inflammation of the filamentous tissue of the limb, recurring periodically, and terminating in albuminous exu- dation ; and that the affection of the lymphatic glands, vessels, &c. on which the hypothesis of Dr Hendy is founded, is an effect of this diseased state. It is unnecessary, therefore, to give the subject more consideration. Not less objectionable is the notion advanced by Charles White,X that inflammation or obstruction of the lymphatics is the cause of the swelled leg, {jphlegmasia dolens,) of puerperal women. Obser- vation and dissection concur in showing that this malady arises from inflammation of the uterine and pelvic veins terminating in albu- minous or sero-albuminous exudation, and causing obstruction to the venous circulation. Angioleucitis Uterina puerper arum. Inflammation has been * Treatise on the Glandular Disease of Barbadoes, proving it to be seated in the Lymphatic System. By John Hendy. London, 1784. ■f Histoire d’une Maladie particuliere au Systeme Lymphatirpie, &c. 180fi ; et Nouvelles Observations sur TElepbantiasis des Arabes. Par M. Alard, 1811. + Inquiry into the Nnture and Cause of that Swelling in one or both of the Lower Extremities in Lying-in-Women. By CharleH White, Surgeon. Warrington, 1784.