MUCOUS MEMBRANE 561 cells, indeed, Willis represents as clustered together like grapes. It is certain that this is not established by observation. When a bronchial tube is traced to its further extremity, it tei- minates not in an enlarged chamber or cell, but merely in a blind sac or cavity; and this sac does not communicate with others. The bronchial tubes, in short, though divided to great minuteness in the substance of the lungs, preserve their character of tubes gra- dually tapering and diminishing, but do not form ampullulae, or vesicles or cells properly so named. It is nevertheless convenient to retain the name of cells or ve- sicles, understanding thereby merely the terminal. ends of the bronchial tubes. Lastly, the situation where the existence of the mucous system, though believed, is most uncertain, is in the interior of the vasa deferentia, and where they take their origin from the vasa effe- rentia of the testis. Regarding the organization of these tubes no sensible evidence can be obtained, and whatever is stated concerning it is the result of analogical inference. Though these membranes have been designated by the gene- ral name of mucous, it is not to be understood that the action of their surface is in every situation the same. It is not easy to limit the signification of the term mucus; for it appears that this fluid varies in the nasal passages, in the tracheal and bronchial membrane, in the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines, and in the urinary bladder and ureters. But it may be stated as a certain fact, that many parts of the two mucous surfaces never in the healthy : state secrete any modification of this animal matter ; and in others the membrane is almost always moistened by a different fluid. The mucous or villous membrane of the eyelids is never in the healthy state occupied with mucus, but is uniformly moistened with the tears; the membrane of the mouth and throat is moistened with saliva only; the urethra presents a peculiar viscid fluid, which seems to exude from many minute vessels opening along its sur- face, as in the lacunae, but which is widely different from mucus. All those parts, in short, which are not in perpetual, but only oc- casional, contact with foreign or secreted substances, seem to pre- sent no mucus in the healthy state; whereas the surfaces of the f stomach, intestines, gall-bladder, and urinary bladder, are con- stantly covered with a quantity, more or less considerable, of this animal secretion. n n