446 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Mr John Bell it remains for years more vascular than the con- tiguous bone.* According to Howsbip it possesses a larger propor- tion of animal matter, f In some instances of fracture union is not accomplished in this perfect manner; but is effected merely by a fibro-albuminous cica- trix, which unites the fragments loosely. This is observed espe- cially in fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, (Bell, Desault, Cooper, Howsbip;) of the knee-pan, (Camper, Callisen;)of the olecranon, and other parts consisting of loose cancellated structure. Upon the reasons of this physiologists are not agreed. By some it is ascribed to defect of periosteum, as in the neck of the thigh-bone (A. C. Hutchinson ;) by others it is attributed to inefficient nutri- tion in the part broken off, which is then certainly less freely sup- plied by blood-vessels. (J. Bell, Sir A. Cooper.) Further, in fractures in which there is much contusion and com- minution, and especially where it is complicated by a communicat- ing wound of the soft parts, reunion is rarely complete. The sup- purative inflammation which then succeeds precludes the adhesive and ossific, and generally renders the latter imperfect or entirely abortive. In such circumstances more or less of the bone dies, and is thrown off in dead splinters. In some instances even necrosis may be produced, as is exemplified in compound fractures produced by gunshot. Even in simple fracture may occur a variety of incomplete union. In some subjects, in whom the fragments have been badly applied, in whom they have been often moved, or in whom the vessels are inadequate to assume the ossific action, though blood and lymph are effused from the periosteum and medullary vessels, and under- go coagulation, adhesion is only partial and imperfect. It is not penetrated by vessels so as to become organized; or those vessels are rent asunder by repeated motions. Under such circumstances, the intermediate substance, instead of acquiring solidity, and be- coming penetrated by bone, is partly absorbed; while the broken ends are converted into a secreting surface, which discharges se- * Principles of Surgery, Vol. I. p. 507. Disc. 12. “ Having cut off the limb of a sol Jier whose limb had been broken in America twelve years before, I found upon in jecting the bone, that while the bone itself received the red colour of the injection pretty freely, the callus, which goes in a zig-zag form, joining together the several ends and points of a very oblique fracture, was very singularly red.” f Experiments and Observations, &c. By J. Ilowship. Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. p. 143.