317 BRAIN. divided, unless by a very keen instrument; and after incision mi- nute fragments are left on the sides or edge of the knife. A very thin slice of white cerebral matter is sufficiently tenacious and con- sistent to sustain its own weight, and to admit of considerable stretching without being broken or lacerated. If put into pure water it continues unchanged for at least eight, ten, or sometimes twelve hours, and without any portion of it being either dissolved, or rendering the water in any degree turbid. A newly cut surface of brain communicates to the finger a peculiar clammy or viscid sensation, in consequence of which it moves with less facility over the skin of any opposite surface. These qualities, the existence of which may be easily demonstrated, pertain especially to the white substance of the adult brain, when death takes place either accidentally or by an acute disease, without direct lesion of the organ. The consistence of the gray matter of the convoluted surface is inferior to that of the white. The white matter of the twain-band (corpus callosum) is firm and tough in the direction of its cross fibres, and may be pulled to a considerable degree without giving way. The cylindrical fluted masses forming the limbs of the brain, (crura,) which consist chiefly of white matter, are much firmer than the substance of the striated nucleus, which is mostly gray; and the annular protuberance, which is chiefly white matter, is the firmest and most tenacious part of the organ. The cere- bellum, which consists chiefly of gray matter, is invariably less firm than the brain ; and the firmest part of the former is the substance of the peduncles and the white matter of the cerebellic hemispheres. Of the spinal chord, the cranial part, especially the olivary emi- nences, are the firmest; and the consistence, though less than that of the brain, is tolerably uniform to the lumbar region, in which it undergoes a distinct diminution, and finally becomes very loose in the caudiform expansion. Ihe degree of consistence now attempted to be defined, varies at different periods of life, and under different circumstances of health and disease. In early life the substance of the brain is very different in con- sistence and tenacity. In the foetus and at birth its softness ap- proaches to semifluidity. Some weeks after it passes from a soft pulpy substance to a state of greater firmness and tenacity ; but at the distance even of many months after birth, it is still much in- ferior in these qualities to the brain of an individual, who has at-