904 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. be the cause of the formation of the concretions and the cysts in which they are inclosed. § 14. Akinopyesis. Suppuration of the Acini,—These ter- minal ends are nevertheless subject to inflammation, so as to form an immense number of minute abscesses in the substance of the liver. Cruveilhier gives an instance in a female of 45, who had jaundice with febrile symptoms for 10 days previous to admission to hospital. The symptoms proceeded, notwithstanding the use of re- medies ; and at the end of 55 days she died, that is, 65 days after the appearance of the jaundice. It was then found, besides two pounds of greenish serum in the abdominal cavity, that the liver, though natural in size, was of an olive colour, and adhered intimately to the diaphragm, the duodenum, and the transverse arch of the colon ; that the whole surface of the liver presented a yellowish-white marbling ; that the lower surface presented two small abscesses, which were on the point of bursting into the peritoneal cavity ; and that the substance of the gland, when divided by the knife, brought into view nume- rous small abscesses, containing purulent mucus thickened, orange- yellow, deep-green, and greenish. These small abscesses had no determinate shape. Some were formed by an enlarged biliary ter- minal duct; others by a duct dilated and perforated; others by several dilated and perforated terminal ducts, communicating mu- tually so as to form multilocular abscesses. The adjoining sub- stance of the liver was, he states, not sensibly inflamed. Yet these abscesses were in thousands, not throughout uniformly, but mostly in the right lobe of the liver. The ductus choledochus, narrow at its duodenal end, was dilated immediately above, and contained a concretion which imperfectly filled its cavity; and at this point a slough in the walls of the duct had been formed. This appears to be an example of inflammation of the terminal ends of the biliary ducts, confined mostly to these bodies, and not extending beyond them. The inflammation Cruveilhier ascribes to irritation, partly from distension of the ducts by the bile not per- mitted to descend; and which, there detained, is liable to form miliary hepatic concretions.* § 15. Entozoa.—a. Parasitical animals have been observed in the liver by many anatomists. In the livers of the lower animals, * Anatomic Patliologique, Livraifcon xl. Plate 1. 1839.