BRAIN. 251 dichotomous; 2. The lateral-superior, or convex; 3. The antero- inferior, or frontal; 4. The medio-inferior, or spheno-temporal; 5. The posterior or cerebellic region of the convoluted surface. The first of these regions of the convoluted surface is easily un- derstood. Plane in its surface, of a shape nearly semicircular, it forms the central boundary of each hemisphere, corresponds to the falciform or dichotomous portion of the hard membrane, GKkripri, meninx dura,) by which it is separated from the similar sui- face of the opposite hemisphere. Before and behind it extends from the superior to the inferior surface of the brain ; but a consi- derable portion of its middle is terminated by the upper surface of the object named middle band, (mesolobe, corpus callosum,) which lies between the two hemispheres. It is contained between the se- micircular and the rectilineal margins. The second region of the convoluted surface is extensive, and occupies the whole of the anterior, upper, lateral, and posterior parts of the hemisphere, from their anterior to their posterior ex- tremity, and from the semicircular margin to a line which extends between these extremities along the lateral borders of the organ. The antero-inferior, or frontal, is that region of the convoluted surface which rests on the horizontal part of the frontal and eth- moid bones, and commencing before with a curved outline,—the anterior end of the hemisphere is bounded behind by the curvili- near hollow, which has been named the pit or fissure of Sylvius. It is slightly uneven, and is bounded at its inner or mesial margin by the great fissure which separates the hemispheres. This inner margin always presents one convolution, which is quite uniform in direction, extent, and configuration. It consists of a longitudinal eminence, which extends in the adult brain about 1 \ inch from the beginning or posterior end of the notch, towards its anterior ex- tremity. The inner margin of the eminence, which is about four lines broad, forms the side of the fissure; and its outer margin or border is separated from the contiguous part of the convoluted sur- face, by a furrow or hollow equally uniform in direction and figure with the eminence,—about the same average, length (1 inch 5 lines-) This furrow contains the cerebral portion of the first pair or olfa- cient nerves. The medio-inferior, or spheno-temporal, is situate immediately behind this region, from which it is separated by the curvilinear hollow. (Fossa SylviL) In the ordinary descriptions, this forms what has been named the middle lobe of the brain ; while the pos-