BRAIN. 291 5. Ulceration; Erosion. From the various forms of pulpy de- struction and abscess, the transition to ulceration is easy. By this is understood destruction of part of either of the surfaces of the brain, so as to present a hollow or depressed surface, rough, irregular, and covered partially either with bloody or albuminous exudation. In the former case its claim to the character of a genuine ulcei may be doubtful, since it may he viewed as the residue of a partial effu- sion of blood. It is possible that this may have been the origin of the case of erosion of the corpus striatum described by Morgagni, in which that body is said to have been entirely detached from the brain; * and I think it is next to certain this was the cause of the ulcerous cavity, f which he shortly after states was found in the base of the left ventricle of another case. This is almost admitted by Morgagni himself, who regards these ulcers as ruptured cavities or cells, originally formed by effused serum. (Ibid, art 8.) So far as accurate observation hitherto goes, the genuine ulcer is found chiefly at the convoluted surface of the brain; (Ridley, p. 212; Powell, case 6;) or the foliated surface of the cerebellum (Haller, Yol. iv. p. 351,) and is always connected with an unsound state of the proper or vascular membrane. Of this sort of ulcer, Stoll found an instance on the cerebellum of a young man of twen- ty-six, accompanied with redness, thickening, and erosion of the pia mater, t Two cases of the same nature are recorded by Scou- tetten. In one, the lower part of the right anterior lobe presented a hard, dry, irregular surface, thirteen lines long and seven broad, with irregular indented edges, with the contiguous cerebral sub- stance sound. In the other, the extremity of the posterior lobe pre- sented two small ulcerated patches, one oval, six lines long, and covered with deep gray pulpy matter; the other a linear depres- sion,—both with wine-lee colour of the adjacent brain. In both cases, the investing proper membrane was red, injected, and some- what eroded. § From these facts, it results that ulceration of the brain is an effect of circumscribed inflammation of the pia mater. The instances of erosion, or ulceration from the penetration of foreign bodies, mentioned by Morgagni and various surgical authors, are rather examples of suppurative destruction. 6. Enccphalaimia. Hemorrliayia Cerebri, Hoffmann. Hemor- rhage. Apoplexia Sanguinea, Sauvages, Cullen, &c. Apoplexie Ce- * Epist. xi. 2. + Ibid. 4. Z Ratio Medendi, pars tertia, p. 122. § Memoire sur quelques cas rares d’Anatomie Pathologique du Cerveau, Ac. Par Scoutetten, D. M. P. &c. Archives Generates, Tome VII. 31.