353 BRAIN. variably in a cyst, it consists of soft, compressible, spongy matter, of the consistence of foetal brain, and not dissimilar in colour to gray cerebral matter, with a tinge of red, a shining aspect, divided in lobulated masses, which move on each other when slightly touched. Though found chiefly in young subjects, it may occur in the brains of adults; but is rarely seen in the aged.* e. Melanosis. The melanotic deposit has not been very often found in the brain. Streaks of dark matter along the blood-vessels were seen by Dr Alison and Mr Fawdington ;f and Dr Hooper deline- ates melanotic masses of small size in the substance of the organ4 Of these several changes now enumerated, the effects, in general uniform, may be said to vary only according, ls£, to the morbid changes induced in the contiguous cerebral substance; 2d, accord- ing to the extent which the organic change occupies; and 3dly, according to its relative situation in the organ. 1. All the tumours above enumerated, independent of the changes proper to their own structure, agree in producing certain common changes in the contiguous cerebral substance. All of them tend to derange the capillary circulation of the brain and its membranes. In the former they induce not only a general injection of the cere- bral capillaries, but a local action in the immediate confines of the tumour, and pulpy destruction of the cerebral substance. It often happens also that the whole organ is, in consequence of the capil- lary injection, infiltrated by pale or bloody serous fluid. In the membranes these tumours also induce injection, terminating in in- filtration of the subarachnoid tissue, and effusion from the choroid web into the ventricles. The effects on the cerebral functions are then precisely similar to those which result from derangement of the capillary circulation taking place primarily. If local and in- termittent, that is, recurring on the operation of certain causes, the irritation from the tumour and its disturbance on the capillary cir- culation induces chronic headach, with epileptic attacks. When the vascular orgasm becomes more general and constant, loss of memory, and sometimes of judgment, irregular contractions of the members, and more or less palsy, are tbe consequences. As it advances to pulpy destruction, the involuntary contractions of the muscles are followed by palsy; the abolition of sensation, recollection and in- * Observations on Fungus Hematodes, by James Wardrop. Edinburgh, 1000. To this belongs the case of Dr Latham, in Medical and Physical Journal, Vol. lvi. p. 1. + A Case of Melanosis, &c. by Thomas Fawdington. £ The Morbid Anatomy, Plate XII. Z