GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 128 All these phenomena, which may be called the secondary effects of phlebitis, arise from the inflammatory deposits, viz. lymph and purulent matter, being taken into the veins and circulated along these vessels; and sometimes from purulent matter being carried by the veins directly to the pleura, the veins of the lungs, or the synovial membrane, or the cellular membrane. 4. Purulent matter and lymph may be found within the veins, and prove a cause of death. Thus in a case of hypertrophy of the spleen I found purulent matter and lymph in the sinuses of the brain, and the veins of the chest and abdomen.* In such cases the deposit is not preceded by inflammation. It is easy to perceive how the pressure of tumours may cause obliteration of these vessels. When any venous tube, under such circumstances, becomes impervious, the collateral communications afford channels for continuing the motion of the blood. 5. Secondary effects of Phlebitis. Inflammation of veins, though usually and ordinarily a fatal disease, is neither necessarily so, nor always. But when it has terminated, as it commonly does, in the formation of purulent matter, it occasionally gives rise to a train of very remarkable and dangerous phenomena. This I shall describe in two forms, as it most usually presents itself. In the ordinary case of inflammation of the vein taking place after venesection, when the patient survives the immediate effects, lymph having been effused, and caused obliteration of part of the vessel, purulent matter is effused at the same time; or rather the effusion is a sort of sero-albuminous matter, the thicker portion of which is the medium of partial and local adhesion, while the more liquid forms purulent fluid. The latter is taken into the circula- tion ; and the original febrile symptoms assume the characters of hectic. Soon after the patient has difficult and laborious breath- ing, with pain in some part of the chest or side, and purulent matter is formed within the pleura. Or another result may ensue. With the symptoms of great disorder in the organs of respiration, as rapid laborious breathing and cough, without expectoration, the symptoms of hectic fever continue; and after two or three weeks, the patient being much emaciated and feeble, dies. On inspection of the body, the lungs, when divided, present numerous abscesses, * Case of Disease of the Spleen, in which death took place in consequence of the presence of purulent matter in the blood, By David Craigie, M. D. &c. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. LXIV. p. 400.