MOBBID STATES OF THE HEART—MORIBUND CONTRACTION. 1053 laxed to its usual capacity after the heart had been macerated a few days, and that during life there was no intermittence or ii regularity of pulse, no dilatation of the right cavities, and no symptoms of impediment to the circulation, arrives at the same conclusion.* It cannot be denied, that, in various instances of sudden death as death by hemorrhage, and also in many instances of death by cholera, the left ventricle is found in this greatly contracted state, lard, firm, with thick walls, and almost no cavity, the internal sur- faces of the ventricle being closely applied to each other, and the ventricle being entirely empty. It is also to be observed, that this state of the heart is found in persons, in whom none of the usual symptoms of disease of the heart were observed to take place during hfe, and consequently in whom the existence of such a lesion was not suspected. _ It may be admitted, then, that, in a certain number of cases, especially where this state of the heart is found after vio- lent death, sudden death by hemorrhage, or sudden death from indicative °f a pe™iiar morbid ** It seems, nevertheless, a conclusion too violent to infer, that, of all cases in which this state of the heart is found, none is to be re garded as the effect of morbid thickening of the ventricle with con- raefon of its chambers. M. Bouillaud, accordingly, who maintains the correctness of the v.ews of M. Bertin, records in his work ™ Diseases of the Heart, eight eases of concentric hypertrophy of ventricle! '’en“''Cle’ ^ °f CO"cen“'io trophy of the left I have met with a few cases of this state of the heart inrWo dent of those which I observed in the bodies of persons ’destroyed by cholera; and m the Clinical Report for 1832-1833, are men- “srrsrtr1 coaid be« death was caused by granular disease'of the kid„”ey,7he eavlt^f 1::“hfckbyfire cIot rr' appu- other case, in which death the cavity of the ventricle was eon ill, J ! , eiysiPelas, were neariy as thick and fi m a" £ " ,a"d itS WaUs presented during life sy,„ptorasS £ ** “ I y0l. Londo , t Clinical Report f„, 1832-1883, Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal.