502 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. is impossible to explain its production otherwise than by ascribing it to the outer or vascular surface of the corion. Cuticle is rendered yellow, and finally dissolved by immersion in nitric acid. It is also dissolved by sulphuric acid, in the form of a deep brown pulp. These, and some other experiments performed by Hatchett, appear to show that it consists chiefly of albuminous matter somehow modified. This description shows, that, if strict observation be trusted, the mucous net has no existence, at least in the European. In the Negro, Caffre, and Malay, however, a black membrane is said to be interposed between the corion and cuticle, and to be the cause of the dark complexion of these races. On this subject 1 refer to the description given by Cruikshank,* which is the best, the Essay of M. Gaultier already quoted, and the observations of Beclard. What is found in the skin of the mixed or half cast races, i. e. the offspring of an African and European, or of a mulatto and Euro- pean ? and how is the transition between this colouring layer and its insensible diminution effected ? Nail is a substance very familiarly known. On its nature and structure we find many conjectures, but few or no facts in the writ- ings of anatomists; and almost all that has been written is the re- sult of analogical inference, rather than of direct observation. It is known that the nails drop off with the scarf-skin in the dead body ; that they are destroyed or diseased by causes which act on the outer surface of the corion, and produce disease of the cuticle ; and that, if forcibly torn out, the surface of the corion to which they were attached, bleeds profusely and inflames. In other respects they are quite inorganic ; but these facts appear to warrant the con- clusion, that the root of the nail is connected with the organic sub- stance of the corion, and that the whole substance is the result of a process of secretion quite similar to that by which the cuticle is formed. According to the experiments of Hatchett, they consist of a sub- stance which possesses the properties of coagulated albumen, with a very small trace of phosphate of lime. The root of a hair is not only that part which is contained in the bulb, but the portion which is lodged in the skin. The middle part and the point are those which project beyond the surface of the skin. The bulb is a small sac fixed in the inner surface of the corion, in * Experiments, &c. p. 31.