661 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. and does not establish an essential or specific difference between such purulent collections and those discharges which take place from the orifice of the organ. It is nevertheless to be remarked, that these collections partake in a more conspicuous degree of the cha- racters of genuine active inflammation of the uterine mucous sur- face. Puriform inflammation of the utero-vaginal mucous membrane is to be distinguished from abscess of the labia 1 or nymplice, from suppuration of the submucous vaginal tissue, which I have seen take place under circumstances that might lead them to be confounded with each other, from gonorrhoeal inflammation, from corroding ulcer of the mouth of the womb, and from cancer of the womb or of the rectum. The second general form of uterine mucous inflammation is that in which the product of the process is an albuminous membranous concretion. Morgagni records a good instance of redness of the uterine mucous membrane, part of which was at the same time lined by a preternatural membranous substance. It has been further long known, that many females discharge periodically shreds and portions of membranous matter of various size and shape, and some so large that they form almost complete moulds of the inner uterine surface. These facts, which were observed by William Hunter, Leake, Denman, and Hulme, are well known to acou- cheurs and those conversant with the management of female dis- orders. It may be stated as a well established fact, that these mem- branous productions are analogous to those, which I have above shown, are secreted by other mucous surfaces; and that their for- mation is connected with an inflammatory state of the uterine mu- cous membrane. Independent of the fact, that their formation is attended with pain of the uterine region and disturbed function, in some favourable instances in which inspection has taken place, the transition from fluid to solid state has been traced, and the congest- ed state of the uterine vessels demonstrated. In sundry instances, nevertheless, these membranous productions are formed by that ac- tion of the vessels which constitutes menstruation, and they are formed chiefly at the menstrual periods. In all cases, their forma- tion implies a state of the uterus incompatible with impregnation ; and sterility is the accompaniment of this disease. ยง 4. Adhesive inflammation of the Vaginal Mucous Membrane. It has been observed by Baillie, that the vagina is liable to a vio-