196 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. enlargement of a member, which has been termed elephant-leg, (Elephantiasis,) the glandular disease of Barbadoes by Hendy, and which is known in the East under the name of the Cochin-leg. Though most frequently seen in the lower extremity, it is not pe- culiar to this part; and authentic instances of its occurrence in the upper extremity are not wanting. Thus, Fabricius Hildanus re- lates a case of enlargement of the arm, (brachium monstrosum,) in a poor woman of Champs d’Or.* Henseler records and delineates an example of the same in the arm of a woman at Ulm ;f and mentions an instance in the arm and leg at once in a woman at Dresden. And an instance not dissimilar in the person of a Hin- doo was given not long ago by Mr Kennedy of Madras4 Ac- cording to Dr Graves, it is most frequent in the upper extremity in Ireland.§ Cases of the same kind from Caithness, Ross-shire, and, if I remember right, from the Shetland Islands, are occa- sionally seen here. The instances in the lower extremity are doubt- less most common in tropical countries. Though it has been the genei’al practice since the time of Hendy to regard this disease as resulting from obstruction of the lympha- tic vessels and glands, the phenomena of its formation and progress, with those of its morbid anatomy, show clearly, I think, that the inordinate enlargement arises from a quantity of albuminous or sero-albuminous fluid, being effused from the exhalants into the cellular tissue of the limb, and which is not removed by adequate absorption. That the enlargement is effected in this manner, and that the effusion is the result of some form of the process of inflam- mation recurring periodically, may be inferred from the following considerations:— ls£, In all the cases of the disease which have been accurately observed, the first attack of enlargement is preceded by general in- flammatory action affecting the whole limb, described as similar to rose (erysipelas,) and distinguished by heat, pain, general swelling, and more or less redness. Of these symptoms the effusion and enlargement are a sort of natural crisis. 2d, In most, if not all the cases, this inflammatory attack recurs * Joannis Henseler, Historia Brachii Preetumidi. Extat in Haller Disputat. Chi- rurgicis, Vol. V. p. 445. -|- Centuria IV. Observ. 69, with a good wooden cut. + Case of diseased arm, by Alexander Kennedy, Esq. Edinburgh Medical and Sur- gical Journal, Vol- XIII. p. 54. § Dublin Hospital Reports, Vol. IV. Clinical Observations, by Robert Graves, M. D.