720 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. which lymph is effused, and the tendency to limit inflammation is strong. This tendency to limitation, in short, by effusion of coa- gulable lymph, is either connected with the more favourable and less violent form of the disease, or it is an indication that the dis- ease is not so speedily and certainly fatal. One of the most extraordinary terminations of cases of this kind occurred in a patient under my own care, in the Royal Infirmary of this place. A woman had been previously treated for fever supposed to be typhoid, until the symptoms had proceeded so far as to render the effect of active treatment questionable. Blood, however, was drawn from the arm, and afterwards, by means of the repeated application of leeches, from the right inguinal region, where pain was felt, and dulness was recognized. About the fourth week after she came under my care, a quantity of purulent matter was discharged from the rectum, with some transitory relief to the symptoms. Death, however, took place; and on dissection I found on the right side of the rectum, between that bowel and the uterus, an ulcerated opening from the cavity of the peritonaeum, whence the matter had escaped. The right ovary was found covered with purulent lymph ; and the right Fallopian tube was filled with thick purulent matter. § 4. Tabes mesenterica; Marasmus.—A species o^c\n'omcperitonitis) giving rise in children to the symptoms of this disease, is described by Dr George Gregory. Its anatomical characters are much the same as in the ordinary instances of peritoneal inflammation; but it also tends to induce thickening of the peritonaeum, secretion of matter termed scrofulous, (tubercular ? tyromatous ?) and finally ulceration of the peritonaeum. In consequence of this ulceration, the mucous and peritoneal surfaces of the bowel communicate di- rectly, so that instead of forming a continuous canal, as in the normal condition, they constitute a mass of tubes communicating freely with each other, and with thickened and ulcerated perito- naeum, by numerous openings. From the early symptoms com- bined with these changes, Dr Gregory considers this disorder as primarily commencing in the peritonaeum.* I he justice of this view I have already attempted to consider.! I have only to observe, that not only the symptoms, but even the appearances of peritoneal inflammation maybe explained, by supposing the ulcerative pi o- cess to originate in the mucous membrane, and proceed to the pe- * Observations on the scrofulous inflammation of the Peritomeum, &c. Med.-Clur.l Transact. Vol. xi. p. 258. See page 650, § 13.