792 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. convolutions reunite in one single small vessel, varying in size, be- ing generally smaller, but in some situations larger, than the ter- minal twig of the artery. This vessel emerges between two of the primary divisions of the terminal twig of the artery, perforating the capsule close to that vessel, and, like it, adhering to this mem- brane in its transition. It then enters the capillary plexus which surrounds the tortuous uriniferous tubes. The tuft of vessels thus formed is a compact ball, the parts of which are held together by their mutual interlacement; there be- ing no other tissue, according to Mr Bowman, forming the capsule except blood-vessels. It is lobulated, at least in certain animals, as man and the horse. The basement membrane of the uriniferous tube, expanded over the Malpighian body so as to form its capsule, is a simple, homo- geneous, and perfectly transparent membrane, in which no struc- ture can be recognized. It is perforated, as before stated, by the afferent and efferent vessels, and not reflected over them. They are united to it at the point of transit. Opposite to this point is the orifice of the tube, the cavity of which is continuous with that of the capsule, generally by a contracted neck. This continuity Mr Bowman observed in mammalia, birds, reptiles, and fishes. When a thin section of a Malpighian body parallel to the neck of the tube is made, the capsule is observed to pass off into the base- ment membrane of the tube, as the body of a Florence flask into its neck. The basement membrane of the tube is lined by a nucleated epithelium of fine-granular opaque aspect; while the neck of the tube and its orifice are abruptly covered with a layer of cells much more transparent, and clothed with vibratile cilia. Within the capsule these cilia cease ^ and the epithelium beyond is very deli- cate and translucent. The cavity existing in the natural state be- tween the epithelium and the tuft, is filled with fluid in which the vessels are bathed, and which is continually impelled onwards by the movement of the cilia. The tubules on quitting the Malpighian bodies become greatly contorted; and this, Mr Bowman infers, is their constant disposi- tion. The tortuous tubes unite again and again in twos, and in their course centrad become straight, forming the pyramids of Ferrcin, and the medullary cones of Malpighi. Among these con- volutions the Malpighian bodies arc imbedded, and arc in contact on all sides with the surrounding tubes.