tracheo-bronchial MUCOUS MEMBRANE. b(D In general this state of the bronchial tubes and lung can be known during life. The voice is hoarse, and like that of a person in croup. The cough is peculiarly hoarse and sonorous, as if is- suing through a brazen tube. The difficulty of breathing is veiy great, and often amounts to orthopnoea ; and mucous rattling is heard in the middle and lower part of the right lung only, while at the upper region respiration is performed with a harsh croaking sound. C. THE GASTROENTERIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE. In the gastro-enteric mucous surface inflammation may take place either generally or partially ; and it affects either the villous mem- brane or its follicular apparatus or both. § 1. (Esophagus.—In the oesophageal mucous membrane in- flammation seldom appears, unless as part of the same piocess affecting the stomach and bowels more or less generally. This is particularly the case in inflammation of the gastric mucous mem- brane, with which a similar state of the oesophageal is almost in- variably connected. The surface is red, injected, and more or less villous, and thickened ; and the oesophageal epidermis is occasion- ally elevated into apthae or blebs, leaving, when these are removed, an excoriated or abraded surface. In the chronic form it may affect the mucous glands, and produce ulceration. Irregular patches of the latter I have seen in subjects in whom the colic membrane was extensively covered by ulcers. The cases described by Dr F. Sim- mons and Dr Gartshore appear to have affected the submucous tissue. § 2. a. The gastric mucous membrane may be inflamed generally or partially. When a limited portion of the villous membrane is inflamed the disease is seldom violent. The mucous membrane of the inflamed part shows an unusual number of minute vessels, but is rarely much crowded. In some instances, however, it is red or scarlet, with vessels disposed in arborescent, punctular, or striated fashion ; and not unfrcquently spots or patches of extravasated blood are recognized. At the same time, the substance of the mucous coat is thicker than natural, of pulpy softness, and when attempted to be detached, is readily lacerated. The gastric mucous membrane is liable, nevertheless, to a more general inflammatory process, in which its surface presents a light rose-coloured blush diffused all over, and secretes mucous or muco- purulent fluid copiously. The mucous membrane is also pulpy