162 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. It is doubtless true that in individual cases this disorder may be greater and more distinct in one set of capillaries than in another. In one set of patients the capillaries of the brain may appear to be most disordered; in another those of the lungs; in a third those of the intestinal canal; and in a fourth those of the urinary organs. It is always found, however, in such cases, that the affection of one organ does not entirely exclude that of another; and while the ca- pillaries of the one are very much affected, though those of the others are less so, they are by no means in the healthy state. In all cases of severe and exquisite fever, whether intermittent, re- mittent, or continued, the capillaries of the brain, of the lungs and heart, of the chylopoietic organs, of the urinary organs, of the muscles, of the cellular tissue, and of the skin, are affected nearly in the same degree. (Macartney, Cooke, &c.) £. An important question is to ascertain the precise nature of this affection. The dissections of Pringle, Home, Ploucquet, Mills, &c. as to the brain, those of Schenck, Morgagni", Lieutaud, Sar- coni, and others, as to the thoracic organs, and those of Lieutaud, Petit and Serres, Broussais, Lerminier and Andral, Louis, Cho- mel, and Bright, as to the intestinal canal, might favour the supposition that the morbid process of fever consists in inflam- mation. Against this conclusion, however, various facts and arguments may be adduced, lstf. In fatal cases of fever unequi- vocal traces of inflammation are not uniformly or invariably found. The proportion in which these marks, as albuminous effusion, sup- puration, ulceration, &c. are observed, is small compared with the number in which accumulation of blood in the capillaries, and more or less disorganization of these vessels are observed. 2d, In cases of pure, genuine, and unmixed inflammation of the internal or- gans, whether spontaneous or from injury, the concomitant symp- toms, though febrile, are totally different from those which distin- guish either intermittent or continued fever. 3d, The marks or effects of inflammation which are found in the bodies of persons cut off by fever are accidental complications, and may almost in- variably be traced to inflammatory reaction supervening on the fe- brile process, in consequence either of the physical peculiarities of the individual, the local weakness of the parts, or the influence of external morbific causes. 4th, Inflammation is a local action con- fined to the capillaries of one tissue, or at most of one organ and contiguous tissues; and while the structure and functions of the 3