GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1)88 it converts into a disease, that which in correct pathology is the effect of morbid action; and that its author represents this lesion as the pa- thological cause of haemoptysis. Had he said that haemoptysis or he- morrhage from the lungs, and this dark-brown circumscribed indu- ration of the lung were effects of the same cause, the representation would have been more just. Both these phenomena are the effects of the previous congestion and injection of the lungs which termi- nates in this extravasation; and, providing the extravasated fluid get into the bronchial tubes, it may be coughed up in the form of blood more or less pure. In general, even M'hen blood is coughed up in this manner, a quantity, more or less considerable, is at the same time effused into the interstices of the pulmonic filamentous tissue, where it stagnates, and at length coagulating gives rise to the gra- nular dark-coloured solid indurated masses found on dissection, dis- seminated through the lung. These masses are not the cause, but the effect of the hemorrhage, which is itself the effect of previous congestion. The change now mentioned is often found in the lungs as an effect of disease of the heart, especially degeneration, ossification, and arctation of the mitral valve. But I have observed it take place independent of this; and I have met with a remarkable in- stance of it in the lungs of an infant of twelve or thirteen months. These and other circumstances lead me to regard this change as one of the effects of pneumonic inflammation, and I therefore refer it to the present head under the name of hemorrhagic peripneu- mony, (pneumonia lieemorrhagica.') Of the other varieties, the second is rather a species of vesicular bronchitis, and as such has been already described under its proper head. The third, viz. the chronic or latent peripneumony, occurs under two forms, chronic inflammation of the pulmonic tissue, and inflam- mation of the lobules. § 2. Chronic Pneumonia.—In the first it presents the same anato- mical characters as the acute disease, but comes on in a more insi- dious and gradual manner. Andral, indeed, represents the ana- tomical character of chronic pneumonia to be hardening of the pulmonic tissue, with a yellow, gray, blue, black, or brown tint, with impermeability to air. This, however, is the ultimate result of a series of changes, in which the portion of lung has been previously the seat of red coloration and congestion, infiltration of blood, and