BRAIN. 357 be borne in mind that the suspension or interruption of nutrition is the effect of a preceding morbid state, in which the blood-vessels, the natural nutrients of the organ, are made to assume a new and perverted action. From the cases now recorded it further appears that the atro- phied parts of the hrain are diminished in size or shrunk, and that they also cease to possess their characteristic physical and physio- logical properties, and to perform their functions duly. Thus in all the cases with the diminution in size of the parts, there is more or less loss of motion and sensation in some of the voluntary organs. Loss of memory appears occasionally to take place; but loss of in- tellect is not invariable. This, however, may depend on the part of the brain atrophied, and on the extent of the atrophy. The mental energy is generally enfeebled ; but the most characteristic feature is that one faculty may retain considerable force, while others are disproportionately weak. The intensity of the intellect is unequal. This is a frequent cause of congenital idiocy, surd-muteness, palsy of one side or various parts of the body; and unequal development of several organs. Often one or more members may be shrunk, withered, and pa- ralytic ; and occasionally one side is hemiplegic. As to the intimate nature of the change induced in the parts so shrunk and diminished we have as yet no precise information. It may arise either from arrest of the growth of the parts, or from the removal of parts by absorption, or rather by disruption and breaking down. The pressure increased by the presence of a new fluid may be adequate to prevent growth of the parts compressed, and even to break down and disorganize. Atrophy of the brain, therefore, may differ according as it takes place during the process of development or after that process is completed. If it take place during the process of formation, then that process is suddenly interrupted, and the brain presents more or fewer of its parts in an incomplete or rudimentary state. Thus in cases in which the process is interrupted previous to the forma- tion of the convolutions, and in which serous fluid more or less copious is effused from the nutrient vessels, the brain resembles a shapeless uniform bladder of membranous and cerebral matter en- closing serous fluid. Ibis is perhaps the most complete example of the atrophy of the brain, and corresponds with the agenesia of M. Cazauvieilh (Archives dc Med. xiv.) The parts which next to these are most generally wanting are