452 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. in others with cartilage; (J. Bell, A. Cooper,) (the cartilaginous exostosis;) in others with colloid or jelly-like matter, (J. Bell;) in others with semifluid blood-like matter, (Houstet;) and in some instances they have been known to contain hydatids, (Keate, &c.) In all cases the periosteum is thickened; the tumour is penetrated by numerous large vessels; and the bone in which the exostosis is formed is more or less thinned and destroyed by absorption. (Houstet, J. Bell, Palletta,* Sir A. Cooper.) Though periosteal exostosis may take place in any bone of the skeleton, it most frequently appears on the inner side of the thigh- bone above the internal condyle, or upon the shaft, which it may enclose completely, (Houstet;) next upon the tibia, which, with the fibula, it may encompass more or less perfectly ; next upon the humerus, (J. Bell and Cooper;) next in the hones of the pelvis, (Cheston and Sandifort;) and finally, on such bones as the lower jaw, the temporal, and other bones of the cranium. It is most likely to take place at muscular or tendinous insertions.! In these forms of osseous deposition the vitality of the new deposit is small. Its organization is indistinct and imperfect; and in no long time it proceeds, apparently hy pressure, to destroy the struc- ture of the adjoining bone, which then becomes rough, yellowish, or even black, and undergoes absorption. The hony mass at the same time is changed interiorly, presenting cavities containing ge- latinous or sanious fluid. The adjoining soft parts are generally destroyed by pressure; and when they give way are wasted by bad, but not cancerous ulceration. The bone thus exposed is generally black, rough, and carious. Though no exact analysis of these os- seous tumours has yet been made, it is known that they consist of phosphate of lime with animal matter. The bony tumours occurring in the carpal, metacarpal, and pha- langeal bones, as described by Severinus, Mery, and Mr John Bell, I am inclined to refer to the head of exostosis depending on disease of the medullary membrane. b. The medullary filamentous web is perhaps still more impor- tant than the periosteum in its morbid influence on bone. It is, in the first place, liable to inflammation; and, according as this takes place in the medullary web of the cylindrical bones, or in that of their epiphyses, or of the short irregular bones, different effects re- sult. * Exercitationes Pathologic®, Cap. ix. Art. iii. p. 112-115. f On Exostosis, by Sir A. Cooper in Surgical Essays, Part i. London, 1818, p. 155.