790 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. seen afterwards by Winslow, Ferrein, Schumlansky,* Eysenhardt, Husckhe, Muller, Henle, Bowman, Gerlach, Bidder, and in short all those who have studied the minute anatomy of the kidney. They have been denominated from the anatomist who first directed at- tention to them Corpora Malpighiana. At the same time it must be observed, that, whether from some confusion of ideas, or from presuming that these bodies must be well known, almost all those who have spoken of them have given them different names at different times, so that it is difficult to know whether all understood the same objects. Ruysch, for example, regards these round or globular bodies as balls of the extremities of blood-vessels (glomeres vasculorum) convoluted on themselves, and not as glands; nor does he allow that they are surrounded by any membrane. Similar opinions were entertained by Berger and Vieus- sens, and especially Peyer, who contended decidedly for their being winding and contorted vessels. Schumlansky long afterwards calls them glandules auctorum, and while he in one passage represents the clustering terminations of the arterial capillaries as the glandules of Malpighi, in another he distinguishes these glandules from the glo- meres and glomeruli, or vascular balls of Ruysch. This anatomist, after injecting kidneys, and examining them, concludes that, though the appearances favour at once the doctrine of Malpighi and that of Ruysch, there are, amidst the blood-vessels of the cortical portion of the kidney, granules or globular, polyhedral or polymorphous bodies, which may be injected from the arteries; yet he doubts whether these are hollow like follicles. He allows that they are connected by cellular tissue ; and he says further, that they are the terminations of the serpentine uriniferous ducts.f According to Muller, the Malpighian bodies are vesicula, or spherical, or spheroidal bladders, which contain glomeruli or glo- bular clusters of minute blood-vessels, and which may be extracted or removed from the vesicular coverings. He thinks also, that another matter besides these blood-vessels is contained in the vesi- * Arteriarum rami dant vieissim ramulos laterales, capillares, brevissimos, magis minus copiosos, quibus tanquam pedicillis appenduntur grana, euique unum, seminum papaveris similia, nunc materie turgida. Totus ramus cum suis pedunculis et mole- culis subrotundis lustratus, refert fere ribium racemum. F.n famosas glandulas Mal- pighu, earumque acinos. D. Alex. Schumlansky De Structura Ilenum Tractatus Phy- siologico-AnatomicuS. Edcntc G. C. Wurtz, M. D., <Stc. Cum II. labulis TEneis. Argentorati, 1788. 8vo. ยง xxix. p. 77. I I). Alex, Schumlansky, &c. ยง xxxvii., xxxix., xl., et xlii.