GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 694 interposition in the middle ventricle, and with the lateral portions of the hippocampus on each side. > -Each choroid plexus, or, to speak more accurately, each of the divisions of the choroid plexus now enumerated, may he shown to be mutually connected, and to form parts of one general membrane, which again constitutes the inner or central division of the great membrane of which the pia mater forms the exterior. Each divi- sion of the choroid plexus, in like manner, is connected, by means of minute blood-vessels, to the portion of the figurate cerebral sur- face on which it rests, and it appears to perform the same function of sustaining vessels as the pia mater does to the convoluted sur- face. The membranous nature and appearance of the choroid plexus may be demonstrated by immersing it in clear water, when, by a little management of the probe and forceps, it may be spread out exactly like the pia mater, which it closely resembles. It presents the appearance of a thin semitransparent web, one surface of which is smooth, the other somewhat flocculent, and the substance of which appears with and without a glass to be traversed by numerous mi- nute vessels. The transparent web, which %’ms the basis or ground- work of this membrane, possesses the characters of very close fila- mentous tissue; and it may be regarded as a filamento-vascular web. Its smooth surface, which is also the free one, is manifestly a continuation of the arachnoid membrane. Like that it is smooth, polished, thin as the finest silver paper, and it may be raised from the more filamento-vascular basis of the membrane to which it ad- heres. I am now, by describing the characters and distribution of this membrane, to show how far it resembles, and how far it is unlike, the perfect serous membrane. The fine inner lamina from which the cerebral surface of the dura mater derives its glistening aspect, I have already stated, is to be regarded as the outer or cranial division of the arachnoid mem- brane. This is to be proved, tii’st, by its anatomical characters, and, secondly, by its distribution and transit. The inner or free surface of the dura mater presents, it has been already said, all the characters of the free surface of the pia mater, except one, the facility with which the thin pellicle, which gives it these characters, can be detached. This, however, is derived from the want of filamentous tissue intermediate between the fibrous layer