GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 902 bouring under consumption, the liver descended fully three inches below the margin of the right hypochondre, approaching close on the crest of the os ileum, extended into the epigastric region, which it might be said to fill, and a little into the left hypochondriac re- gion. Its weight was nearly eight pounds. On the pathological causes of this transformation, nothing is cer- tainly known. Pathological speculations have appealed to the fat- tened liver of the goose, to show that it is produced by overfeed- ing and too little corporeal exertion; and unquestionably this may give rise to the transformation. But the change has been observed in the bodies of persons who, if well fed, have not been under- worked. Again, it is seen in those who are corpulent, and who are addicted to the use of nutritious food and spirituous and fer- mented liquors. Its occurrence in consumption is supposed to de- pend on the obstructed state of the circulation through the lungs, on the diminished power of decarbonization thus induced, and on the greater quantity of blood believed to be sent to the liver, and the greater amount of duty thrown upon that organ. The liver in its sound state is said always in the adult to show that its acini contain oil and fat globules, which are further said to be most abundant in those who use fat and oleaginous articles of food. It is possible that this may be one of the sources of the adi- pose infiltration. Another is more evident. The bile certainly is liable by some means to have its elements converted into cho- lesterine; and it is reasonable to suppose, that, in the transition to this decomposition, its elements may be converted into fat. Another illustration of this subject I add from comparative ana- tomy. The livers of all the finny tribes abound in oil to so great extent, that it is one of the products of spontaneous decomposition. It is most likely that the separation and deposition of oil in this organ is connected with the mode of respiration presented by this class. Gills are evidently less favourable to the elimination of much carbonaceous matter than lungs ; and while a small part of the carbonaceous matter is separated by the gills, part may also, in union with hydrogen, be separated by the liver. As this disease is generally associated with others, as pulmonary consumption, its external effects are not well known. Various symptoms indicative of indigestion arc said to denote its first for- mation. But as upon these no reliance can be placed, I do not mention them. It is known in its advanced stage by the swelling 6