934 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. cases. But the kidney has been in this state found to be as large as the head of a child, and to contain almost two pounds or more of purulent, sero-purulent, or urino-purulent fluid; and in one case which was known to me, the left kidney was so much enlarged and distended, that it occupied the whole left side of the abdomen and extended into the pelvis. An excellent case is given by Cor- visart in his journal.* This disease has been described by Frederic Augustus Walter in one stage, under the name of expansion of the kidneys, (expan- sio renum,) and in another under the title of dropsy of the kidneys, (Nierenwasserseuche,) (hydrops renalis.)f Neither of these names are appropriate ; and the latter is particularly improper, in so far as it conveys a just idea neither of the origin of the disorder, nor its nature, and is liable, in the present state of pathological know- ledge, to be confounded with the secondary dropsical effusions which take place in consequence of granular degeneration of the kidney. The expansion is the effect of inflammation, which, by giving rise to morbid products, causes distension of the kidney, and dilatation of its infundibula and pelvis, much as sero-purulent fluid within the pleura separates the lungs from the pleura costalis and ribs, and extrudes the walls of the chest. The sero-purulent, purulent, or urino-purulent fluid contained within the expanded infundibula and pelvis of the kidney, constitutes no resemblance or analogy between the fluid and those of dropsical effusions; and the name should therefore be discarded. If a particular denomination be wished for the disease, the term Nephropyema or Pyonephria is the proper one, and the term Nephrotasia may be used to signify the disten- sion. It may be observed, however, that the latter is a mere effect of the accumulation of purulent fluid. I think that Mr Howship has been misled by the same circum- stance, when, in speaking of this change under the head of disten- sion of the kidneys, he observes, that “ by this means a degree of pressure is established, which, as it increases, induces by degrees a total resolution of the whole of the natural structure of the gland, which is ultimately found converted into an assemblage of large and small cysts, or thin membranous capsules.”! * Journal de Medecine, Tom. vii. p. 387. -f- Einige Krankheiten dev Nieren und Harnblase. Berlin, 1800. 4to. + A Practical Treatise on the Symptoms, Causes, Discrimination, and Treatment of some of the most important Complaints that affect the Secretion and Excretion of the Urine, &e. By John Howship, Member of the R. C. of Surgeons in London. Lon- don, 1823. Section vi. p. 13.