967 MOKBID STATES OF THE TESTIS. This form of cancer is distinguished by the peculiarity of the constant white or whitish-yellow reticulated figures being more or less manifest. These figures are irregularly net-like, sometimes branched or spotted. There are no dilated vessels with thickened walls as are sometimes seen in simple carcinoma, but characteristic formation. The reticulated figures arise from the deposition of white granules in the gray mass. These granules appear not cel- lular, but resemble most a conglomeration of opaque granules with roundish or elongated corpuscles. Cavities are sometimes formed in this structure; and in these is enclosed a coagulable albuminous matter ; while the walls are oc- cupied by whitish bodies. Though this sort of cancer is very common in the female breast, it is not peculiar to that organ, being found also in other parts. This shows that its presence and formation are not necessarily con- nected with the structure of the lacteal glands.* d. The female mamma is further liable to be attacked by enkepha- loma, which appears with its usual characters. It forms, however, a softer and more compressible tumour; and it appears more lobu- lated ; and some of these lobules seen to be cysts containing fluid. It appears also in younger subjects; and is more a disease of early life than scirrhus. This disease, however, when it appears in the mamma, is rarely confined to this gland. The same structure is usually developed in the liver, or more or fewer of the internal organs. e. The nipple is liable to various morbid changes. The most com- mon is excessive development; or growth in its nucleus, which is at- tended with pain and some swelling. Usually it ceases of its own accord. But if it do not, it is liable to form a small tumour, which is said often to pass into the malignant state. This I believe is very doubtful, if the subjacent gland remain sound. Other morbid conditions are atrophy, hypertrophy, or excessive nutrition, tuber- cular skirrhus, and enkephaloma. Section VII. Morbid States of the Testis. The diseased state incident to the testis are inflammation and its effects; hydrocele; suppuration within the testis; strumous dis- * Ueber den Feinern Bau und clie Formen den Krankhaften Geschwiilste.