970 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. to be the dense and unyielding nature of the tunica albuginea and its processes, and the tension with which it encloses the testicular tubes, in consequence of the constriction by which, when new mat- ter is infiltrated into the tubular structure, as no adequate expan- sion takes place, the enclosed parts are, as it were, strangulated and deprived of vitality by the compression of their blood-vessels by the tunica albuginea. § 5. Atrophy.—-Under this head are comprehended arrest of development and wasting. a. Arrest. Most commonly the testis has not descended from the abdomen; and when it has, one or both are smaller than usual, shrunk, and manifestly not adequately nourished. The tubular portion is imperfectly developed. b. Wasting. When the testis has been fully developed, it may be attacked by wasting. Either after a blow, contusion, or other violence, or sometimes, as was observed in the soldiers of the French army in Egypt, after sexual excesses, the testis becomes at first a little larger, then softer than natural, then small and shrunk. In this form of atrophy, the tubules undergo a species of chronic in- flammation, causing obliteration from infiltration of lymph, and sometimes of oily matter. The secreting structure is thus disor- ganized. The blood-vessels shrink, and less blood than usual is conveyed to the gland. In a testicle affected by wasting, the testis feel soft; and its tex- ture is pale and with few blood-vessels. The fluid expressed from the tubuli is void of spermatozoa. Mr Gulliver found fatty matter in the glandular substance. § 6. Haematocele ; or effusion of blood takes place most usually within the tunica vaginalis, constituting the affection called Haematorchis, already noticed. § 7. Fibrous transformation. Desmosis.—In some instances, not very common, the testis has been found converted into a spe- cies of fibrous mass; while its proper secreting structure has dis- appeared. This change I regard as depending on increased deve- lopment of the tunica albuginea and its processes, all of which be- come thick, dense, and increased in size; and by compressing the tubular structure cause its absorption. The lesion is not very com- mon ; but in the instances in which I have seen it, this view ap- peared to be directly suggested by the phenomena and characters of the change.