581 TRACIIEO-BRONCIIIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. vanced stage of the disease the following appearances are recog- nised. 1. Collapse of the lungs, on opening the chest, either imperfect or none ; the lungs inelastic, doughy, and gorged with^ venous blood; sometimes oedematous, sometimes slightly solidified. 2. The bronchi and large bronchial tubes containing a considerable quantity of viscid, opaque, tenacious mucus adhering firmly to the membrane; the membrane itself in the bronchi and large tubes red- dened, rough, in some parts swelled, and of a colour more or less brown. 3. Several of the bronchial tubes present portions in which the area of their canal is more or less, sometimes considerably, con- tracted, forming a degree of bronchial stricture. 4. Parts of the lungs, especially near their margin, present air in their filamentous tissue, and sometimes bladders of air, forming emphysema of the lungs. 5. In some instances a few of the bronchial tubes, especially towards the lower part of the lung, may be dilated to a greater capacity than natural. 6. In certain cases they are narrowed, or altogether closed and obliterated. b. Vesicular Bronchitis. Injlammatio Vesicularum.—In the second variety, either with or without the affection of the membrane of the large and middle-sized tubes, inflammation attacks the pulmonic or vesicular division of the bronchial mucous mem- brane. The pathology of this disease, though understood by Mor- gagni, De Haen, and Stoll, has been more fully illustrated by the researches of Chevalier, Badham, Abercrombie, Hastings, and Laennec. Dissections of persons cut off in different stages of the disease show that the bronchial membrane is much reddened and injected, villous or pulpy, and thickened or swelled. As the disease proceeds, it discharges viscid puriform mucus, or muco-purulent fluid, which fills the air-cells or vesicles, and prevents the lungs from collapsing when the chest is opened. The tracheal membrane may be reddened or traversed by arborescent red lines; and though the bronchial membrane is in general entire, in some instances small ulcerated breaches are observed in various parts. In the chronic form, the membrane, though red and villous, is rarely so much swelled as in the acute disease; but minute ulcers or patches of ulceration are more common. lhe effect of this process in the bronchial, membrane is to aug- ment the quantity and change the quality of the fluid secreted in the natural state. At the commencement of the process, the bluish,