942 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. cognize positive evidence of gangrene; and Chorael is therefore inclined to doubt the termination; but he allows that, in cases of persons who have died after long continued suppuration of the kidney, some parts of the suppurating surface presenting the dark colour, or grayish, the peculiar odour, the softness, and the absence of apparent organization observed in mortified sloughs. As an instance of this lesion, Walter records a curious case which took place in the person of a young woman who had labour- ed for many years under violent pains in the region of the kidneys; and who was at length attacked with inability to void urine, in place of which she had a continual discharge of purulent matter, mixed with blood and fine sand. The belly swelled so much that she was imagined to be pregnant; but she suddenly fell down dead. Upon inspecting the body, Walter found the right kidney enlarged into a great spheroidal swelling, ten inches in the long diameter, six in the transverse, its substance of a brownish-red colour, very soft, and so easily lacerable, that on the slightest touch an opening was made. Internally it was altogether consumed, and its cavity was filled with an astonishing quantity of coagulated blood, puru- lent matter, and dissolved renal substance. This mixture, which resembled a sort of soup, enclosed two concretions, one weighing two drachms, the other two scruples, which could not be discovered till some of the mixture was emptied. On further investigation, Walter found that some of the large renal vessels had been eroded and laid open, and to this he ascribed the sudden death of the wo- man, and the quantity of blood found in the kidney.* This, I think, must be regarded as a pretty unequivocal case of gangrene of the kidney. The termination must, nevertheless, be regarded as rare. Vogel gives, in a man affected with jaundice, an example of the kidney labouring under gangrene. The chief characters are masses of clotted and decomposed blood disseminated through the paren- chyma of the gland.t Mortification of the perinephral adipose membrane is a common consequence of inflammation of that tissue. But it belongs to J another head. ยง 7. a. SUPPUll ATI VE INFLAMMATION OF THE KlDNEY. Though * Einigo Krankheiten der Niercn und Iiarnblase. 4to. Berlin, 1800. g lb seitc 5. t Tabula xxiii.