1045 MORBID STATES OE THE HEART.—VALVES. zation of the former, and a considerable degree of contraction in the latter. As this process advances, it progressively renders the valve more stiff, hard, and unyielding, until it is converted into a sort of irre- gular ring of cartilage or bone, or cartilaginous matter, with patches of bone intermixed. The valve is then said to be ossified. The auriculo-ventricular aperture at the same time is so much contracted, that the blood no longer flows from the auricle into the ventricle with its wonted facility; and a small quantity only passes into the ventricle, while the auricle is kept in a constant state of distension, and is dilated, and sometimes its walls are thickened. In this state the auricle is said to be affected with hypertrophy. In some instances the valve is occupied at its apices with warty tumours or growths, which have the same effect in rendering it stiff and immovable. The tendinous chords have been known to give way during great efforts, or long-continued running; and the rupture lays the foun- dation of disease of the tendinous chords and the valve. The change now described may take place at any period of life; and it has been observed in persons aged 18, 22, and at all ages that Igt°* BUt ^ ^ m°re freqUent be>'ond 40 than previous to It seems very often to be the effect of inflammation of the lining membrane of the heart, affecting chiefly the valve, taking place a ong with or after rheumatism ; and even when it appears to take p ace slowly in the course of a long series of years, i{ is the effect of chronic inflammation of the membrane forming the valves. The semilunar valves, at the origin of the aorta, are liable" to be affected with the same stiffness and induration, and to be penetrated by steatomatous matter, cartilaginous matter, or portions of calca reous matter In the beginning, and the slightest form of this kind of change, the semilunar valves lose their pliancy, and can no longer be made to fold completely into the axis the m"e v This is easily known in the dead body, bv nonri™ „ ! c water into the aorta, which, falling on tL ^ • g f ftleam of state, detaches them from the sides^f the Jte ^ ^ hea.lthy meet in the centre, so that the column l’ ™teS the” them. When they become rigid cTrtilaLT b bj' ‘”7 rot b" t wate^msses^rom^he 7™™ - that a wate. passes from the artery ,„to the ventricle. The valves are