453 BONE. a. Nekrosis. The term nekrosis means the process or state of dying or mortification in general ; but it is restricted by pa- thologists and surgeons to designate death taking place in bone. This may be accomplished in various ways, and may be the result of the operation of various agents. A compound comminuted fracture, a gun-shot which breaks and shatters a bone, or any other considerable degree of violence, may be followed by death of the portions most directly injured, and even those less immediately injured. It is observed also in the course of dis- eases and accidents that when any one of the compact bones is de- nuded of its periosteum, the part so denuded is very liable to be- come dead and to be then separated as a lifeless part. In some instances it has been observed that the agency of fire applied to the human body accidentally or intentionally has caused, by denuding the bone, the same result. Thus the actual cautery applied to the scalp has caused death of the external table; and I have seen a portion of the same external table destroyed, and made to exfoliate in an epileptic patient who in one of his fits had fallen into the fire. A peculiar sort of nekrosis of the bones of the face, especially the superior jaw, has been made known by one of the manufactures of modern times. It is observed, that persons engaged in lucifer- match manufactories are liable to be attacked with pain and swelling of the face; and eventually it is observed, that the soft parts about the nostrils suppurate, and portions of dead bone are discharged evidently from the upper jaw. The process is chronic, tedious, and exhausting; and sometimes the face is greatly deformed. This disease is ascribed to the agency of phosphorus in vapour, which is believed in this manner to produce death of the bones of the up- per jaw. All these are modes in which nekrosis or death of bone may be produced. The term is nevertheless most commonly applied to designate death in any of the cylindrical bones, in which the disease, is seen in its gieatest perfection; and, as it is sometimes under certain cir- cumstances attended with attempts to form new bone to supply the place of the dead bone, the term has been often understood to em- brace the latter process as well as the former. The formation of new lone, nevertheless, does not take place always ; and that must be regarded as a distinct part of the process. Nekrosis may come on in different modes. Often it is spontfw