495 FIBRO-CARTILAGE. under very peculiar circumstances, as those which form the junction of the pelvic bones. (Symphysis pubis, sacro-iliac synchondrosis.) The peculiarities of these substances consist in their partaking in different proportions of the nature of cartilage and white fibrous tissue, and, consequently, in possessing the toughness and resist- ance of the latter with the flexibility and elasticity of the former. The structure of the fibro-cartilaginous tissue is easily seen in the intervertebral bodies, or in the cartilages uniting the pelvic bones. In the former, white concentric layers, consisting of circular fibres placed in juxta-position, constitute the outer part; while the inte- rior contains a semifluid jelly. The concentric fibrous layers are cartilage in a fibrous shape. In the latter situation, the fibrous structure is equally distinct; while the cartilaginous consistence shows the connection with that organic substance. A similar ar- rangement is remarked in the interarticular cartilage of the temporo- maxillary articulation, and in the semilunar cartilages of the knee- joint. In all, the fibrous is said to predominate over the cartila- ginous structure. Their physical properties are distensibility with elasticity. Though they are at all times subjected to considerable pressure, they speedily recover their former size. Their chemical composition appears to be entirely unknown. Section II. There is little doubt that the fibro-cartilages are liable to inflam- mation, either originally commencing in their own substance, or communicated to them from contiguous parts, especially synovial membrane, with which many of them are invested. Suppuration of that which forms the symphysis pubis was seen by a friend of Hunter,* and by Ludovici, in the person of a puerperal female. This was the effect of excessive stretching during labour. In other instances they are torn asunder, so as to cause diastasis without suppuration. In one instance, separation of this kind appears to have been congenital. Palletta and Brodie have described a va- riety of vertebral disease which always commences with, and some- times consists in erosion of the intervertebral cartilages ; and most surgegns have seen the semilunar cartilages of the knee-joint in- flamed and eroded. The intervertebral fibro-cartilages have been found softened, swollen, and distended with fluid. Ossification is not uncommon, and in those of the sacro-iliac and pubal junctions * Med. Obs. and Inquiries^ Vol. II.