226 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. of the animal frame consisted of nothing but vessels. This idea, though opposed by Albinus,* * * § on the same grounds on which it was advanced, was nevertheless revived by William Hunter, who be- lieved that the inorganic parts of animal bodies are too minute for sensible, or even microscopical examination. In every part, how- ever minute, always excepting nails, hair, tooth enamel, &c., ves- sels could be traced; and even a cicatrix he demonstrated is vas- cular to its centre.f By the aid of the microscope the researches of Lieberltuhn tend- ed still more powerfully to favour this opinion.j But repeated observation of the effects of injection in every part and texture al- most of the body by Barth and Prochaska has led the latter to con- clude, that this opinion, understood in the ordinary mode, is not tenable. Prochaska, who has investigated this subject with much attention, thinks he is justified in dividing all the substances of the animal frame into two,—those which may be injected and those which cannot. In this manner he regards skin, especially its outer surface, muscle, various parts of the mucous membranes, the pia mater, the lungs, the muscular part of the heart, the spleen, the liver, kidneys, and other glands as very injectible; but tendon, li- gament, cartilage, &c. as not injectible.§ Without entering mi- nutely into the merits of this distinction, or the inferences which Prochaska makes to flow from it, it is sufficient, so far as all useful knowledge is concerned, to infer, that blood-vessels are an essential constituent of every organic texture, however different; and, if there be any other matter inherent in such textures, it must be derived from these as a secretion. Muscle, brain, nerve, osseous matter, and cartilage are depositions or the product of nutritious secretion from the respective arteries of these organized substances. To apply these distinctions to pathological anatomy, therefore, two leading facts are presented as principles. The first of these is the arrangement of the vessels in the substance of the organic tex- tures ;—their organization. The second is the great result of or- ganization, the principal duty performed by the vessels in each tis- sue ;—the formation of each organic substance, or the process of * Annotationum Academicarum, Lib. iii. I Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. II. $ De Villis Intestinorum. § Georgii Prochaska Disquisitio Anatomica-Physiologica Organismi Corporis Hu- mani ejusque Processus Vitalis, 4to. Vienna, 1812. 4