GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 860 pulmonary consumption, and the patient is worn out by incessant irritation, difficult breathing, coughing, and hectic emaciation.* Yet, according to Marshall, recoveries from this state have occur- red ; they are indeed rare, and perhaps occur only when the ab- scess is small, and the consequent inflammation of the lungs not extensive. (Vide John Clark, pp. 405, 407.) 3. Mr Marshall mentions a case in which the left lobe adhered to the stomach, and part of the contents of an abscess had passed through a large opening into its cavity. Sir G. Ballingall states, that, in many instances, extensive adhesion takes place between the liver and transverse arch of the colon ; and though he never met with a case in which an opening was effected, yet he infers that it has taken place, so as to discharge matter and effect a cure. Mr Marshall adheres to the mere fact of no communication ever being formed, and is not aware of a cure having been accomplished. Dr John Clark, however, records a case, which he considers, from the discharge of purulent matter, to have been of this nature, (p. 416). Two examples of this communication are given by M. Petit, f 4. Among the cases of hepatic abscess related by Valsalva, in one the biliary duct communicated with the abscess by a large ori- fice, and was considerably dilated. Morgagni infers, that there is no reason to doubt that this duct frequently conveys blood and purulent matter 'from the substance of the liver into the duodenum ; and he mentions that, in one case in which many pounds of purulent fluid were voided at different periods during life, much matter was found after death in the intestines, biliary ducts, and liver, and the ducts were much dilated, the intestinal extremity being large enough to admit the little finger, (xxxvi. 10.) The probability of this mode of outlet in consequence of purulent matter being form- ed either in the vicinity of the ducts, or in the concave part of the liver, is noticed by Petit, and afterwards by Saunders; but he ap- pears to have been misled by speculative views, and to have inferred that, because adhesion generally attends suppuration and ulceration, it was difficult to explain the mode in which the hepatic abscess made its way into the duodenum, and falls into some philosophical inconsistencies. (See Chap. iv. Sect. i. 7-13.) 5. The passage of an hepatic abscess to the surface of the body * See cases by E. Barry, Ed. Med. Essays ; Ur Ludlow, Mem. Med. Society, vol. iii. p. 145 ; and Larrey, Expedition en Rgypte, p. 191. -(- Ues Apostcmes du Foie, Memoires de PAcademie de Chirurgie, tome ii. p. <il, cases 2 and 8. Paris, 1753.