589 TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. out; and lacerable; much loaded with blood and serum. The left pleurae adhered universally; and the left lung, though less heavy and gorged, was everywhere reddened and ejected. The mucous membrane from the larynx to the smallest branches of the bronchial tubes in both lungs was swelled, softened, and of a deep red colour; and the bronchial tubes were filled with muco- purulent fluid round the tooth, but without abscess or breach of surface in the vicinity of the spot where it was lodged. From the facts now adduced, it seems reasonable to establish the following conclusions. 1. Foreign bodies, such as kernels and stones ot fruit, nuts, or fragments of them, teeth, natural or artificial, pieces of metal, wood, or fragments of bones, which pass the glottis and drop into the windpipe, if they do not produce immediate suffocation, cause irri- tation of the windpipe, bronchi, and bronchial membrane, indicated by fits of coughing, more or less continued and severe, wheezing, breathlessness, and weight and oppression in the chest. 2. These symptoms of irritation are speedily succeeded by symp- toms of inflammation, sometimes acute, sometimes chronic, but always afterwards becoming chronic, indicated by cough, expecto- ration of dense puriform or purulent mucus, occasionally streaked with blood; weight and anxiety in the chest; quick pulse; and eventually, hectic fever, with wasting. 3. Bodies of the kind now specified drop not constantly but most frequently into the right bronchus; and their presence is followed by inflammation first in the right bronchial tubes and lungs of right side. The right bronchus is normally more directly in con- tinuation with the tracheal canal than the left bronchus. One or two instances, nevertheless, of foreign bodies falling into the left bronchus have occurred.* 4. These bodies, there is reason to believe from their size and shape, must be arrested in the large or middle-sized bronchial tubes; and it must be anatomically and physically impossible for them to descend into the small tubes or the pulmonary vesicles. 5. The disease induced by their presence must therefore be, in the first instance, tubular bronchitis; and though the inflammation may afterwards extend to the vesicular membrane, it is chiefly the tubular variety of the disorder throughout. G. In all the recorded cases, the symptoms, however intense * Scliroeder Van Der Kolk.