GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 696 ficult to trace the arachnoid membrane from the pia mater along their coats, to that portion of the dura mater which forms the sinus, and conversely, from the falx along the veins to the free surface of the pia mater. In the second place, the lower, or concave margin of the falx, is connected at the bottom of the middle fissure between the hemispheres to the pia mater on each side by thin transparent filamentous membrane, which is in truth the arachnoid passing from the falciform process of the dura mater to the free surface of the pia mater, covering the commutual surfaces of the hemispheres; and the same may be seen at the lower margin of the small or ce- rebellic falciform process. In the third place, at the inner mar- gin of the transverse portion or tentorium, the transparent pellicle of the dura mater maybe traced passing to the pia mater of the brain above, and of the cerebellum below. The same arrangement may be demonstrated in the vertebral cavity, in which it further covers the serrated membrane, (ligamentum denticulatum). In short, while the dura mater is proper to the inner surface of the skull, and the pia mater to the surfaces of the brain, the arachnoid membrane is common to both, and invests not only the free surface of the pia mater, as is usually stated, but the inner surface of the dura mater. The arachnoid has a still more extended distribution. After co- vering the free or inner surface of the pia mater, it follows the course of that membrane into the central surface of the brain, and covers the upper or unadherent surface of the several divisions of the choroid plexus. This is demonstrated by the same process by which the continuity of the plexus with the pia mater is esta- blished. From the foregoing description it results that the arachnoid membrane possesses in arrangement and distribution a great re- semblance to the serous membranes. It differs, nevertheless, in its extreme tenuity, in the closeness with which it adheres to the collateral tissues, and, as will afterwards appear, in its slight dis- position, to albuminous exudation. It appears to contain in its structure less filamentous tissue than the pure' serous membranes. I have elsewhere, in treating of the development of the brain, had occasion to speak of the cerebral membranes. The pia mater in the twofold form now described exists at an early period of the ovum, before the formation of the brain is commenced. It is then recognized in the form of a very vascular membrane, somewhat confused, but still sufficiently distinct to show, that in the centre