975 MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. doctrine at the close of the 18th century, and for the first fifth of the 19th. According to Soemmering the substance of the lung consists of small air-cells or vesiculce. Several of these vesiculce form a cluster, (acervulus); several clusters compose small lobules; these unite into large lobules ; and these by their union form the lobes of the lungs. These cells appear to be round, polygonal and irregular. When inflated they are about the eighth or the tenth part of one line in diameter ; and they communicate with each other through the wind-pipe, in such manner that air blown into one cell easily passes from this into the bronchia, and by these penetrates into all the other cells of the Jungs. The cells of neighbouring lobules, however, do not communicate with each other ; and it is only the cells be- longing to each cluster and lobule that thus communicate.* If this description be understood literally, it implies that the al- leged cells of the lungs do not communicate with each other by themselves, but only by the arrangement of the bronchial tubes terminating m them. From this it follows, that these air-cells are mere shut ends of the bronchial tubes. In 1808 Reisseissen examined in various modes the terminal ends of the bronclnal tubes, and arrived at the conclusion, that the luno- possesses no arrangement like that described as air-cells, and that c osed ends of the bronchial tubes, not communicating with each other however, but which retaining the peculiar structure to their extremities, present the appearance of air-cells or air-vesicles.f The essay of Reisseissen was not published till 1822 ■ and it was only subsequent to that time that his statements became known or their correctness ascertained. Magendie examined in 1821 the minute structure of the lunoa by inflating and drying small portions; and concluded that there •s a cellular or vesicular arrangement at the extremities of the bronclnal tubes communicating with these tubes, and in which these tubes finally terminate; that these cells present no regular form and appear to be void of membranous walls; that they are formed by tic las divisions of the pulmonary artery, th eradicate or roots v s els 'TTa7tlmlnSiia"f IT™8 “-"—of these ’ that a11 the “II3 of one lobule communicate with each * De Fabrica Corporis Humani. Toraus sextus, § xxi. T Franz Daniel Reisseissen iiberden Run ,i„,. r ’ _