493 GRISTLE. species of ulceration, with mortification of the cartilages, which are sometimes coughed up as dead sloughs. This constitutes one of the worst forms of laryngeal consumption, (phthisis laryngea.*) In strumous subjects the cartilages of the nose are subject to a species of enlargement or thickening, accompanied with increased vascularity, and terminating in unfavourable ulceration. In some instances, tyromatous deposition in the tubercular form takes place, and renders the nostrils tumid, irregularly knobbed and painful. This, which also tends to very bad ulceration, is one of the forms of the disease described under the general name of Noli me tangere. That it originates in the cartilages I have observed more than once; and its ravages are seldom stopped till they are completely destroy- ed, leaving much deformity. It has been supposed that cartilage does not readily granulate. But this must be a mistake, unless in regard to the laryngeal and tracheal cartilages; for when bones are removed from articular ca- vities, granulations have been known to rise from the cartilagi- nous surface; and there is no doubt that wounds of cartilaginous tissue are frequently united by granulation. All that fact and ob- servation permit to be said is, that often they do not readily gra- nulate. Cartilage is also liable to ossification, as is seen in those of the larynx and of the ribs. In these the osseous matter is disseminated in irregular points and patches. In diseases of the hip-joint, the cartilages of the thigh-bone and acetabulum become not only bony, but may be converted into a substance similar to ivory. (Bichat.) When textures, originally cartilaginous, have thus become pe- netrated by bony or calcareous matter, they manifestly lose part of their vital properties. They are much less capable than for- merly of resisting the approaches of disease. They are more liable to inflammation. And they are prone to become affected by mor- tification or nekrosis exactly as bone; and in this condition they cause as much irritative suppuration as dead bone. This disorder is observed principally on the cartilages of the larynx. A new formation of cartilage is frequently found in various tis- sues, but especially in the serous and synovial membranes, to which it is not uncommon to find cartilaginous bodies attached. Cartila- ginous texture is also found in those sarcomatous tumours which eventually pass into insanable ulceration. * Observations on the Surgical Pathology of the Larynx and Trachea, &c. By W. H. Porter, A. M., Ac. Dublin and London, 1826.