148 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. No sooner do the vessels become overloaded with blood than part of it either entire, or in the form of serous fluid, is separated from the vessels. Thus in inflammation of filamentous tissue blood or serum may be poured into its interstitial spaces; and the effusion of the latter is one cause of oedematous and anasarcous infiltration. In inflammation of the serous membranes also we shall find that effusion of serous fluid is an early and frequent result. When this effusion is moderate it may be removed under suit- able management by the action of the veins and lymphatics; and in such circumstances this termination would still come under the head of resolution. y. In general, however, the fluid effused is of a more compli- cated nature. The natural tendency of the process of inflamma- tion is to cause the vessels to secrete or exhale, or effuse a fluid which at once contains coagulable lymph and a thinner serum, which, at a later period, at least in the filamentous tissue, corre- sponds to sero-purulent or purulent fluid. The serum is not con- verted, as Cullen imagined, into purulent matter. But the same vessels which, at an early stage of the process, secrete serous fluid containing lymph, at a more advanced period secrete purulent mat- ter. This is easily proved by tracing the progressive changes in a large wound ; for instance an amputated stump, an incision made into an inflamed swelling, or an incision made on purpose into the soft parts of an animal. The same general conclusion results also from observing the progressive steps in the human body after a seton has been inserted, or an issue established. In the case of part of the surface being destroyed by caustic, actual or potential, the process may be less distinctly observed; but it is still nearly the same. Upon the whole, the natural course of phenomena in inflamma- tion may be stated in the following order. First, vessels dilated and distended with blood, which moves more slowly than natural. Secondly, the secretion or effusion from these vessels, or their ex- halant terminations, of a fluid consisting of serum and coagulable matter, sometimes with extravasation of blood. Thirdly, the se- cretion of purulent fluid from the same vessels. The intimate nature of the pi-ocess by which purulent matter is formed is by no means well known. The notion of Grashuys, * that it arose from a liquefaction or melting of the adipose tissue, * De Suppuratione.