718 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Cases. Marks of inflammation of the peritonaeum and changes in the womb or its appendages were variously associated in . 165 separated in Viz. traces of peritonitis without affection of womb in 28 ) changes in womb, including those of ovaries and veins, > 57 without affection of peritonaeum, in . 29 ! In a considerable number of cases of this disease which I had oc- casion to inspect, the peritoneal covering of each ovary was enclosed in a layer of albuminous exudation. In this the fimbriated extre- mities of the oviferous tubes were imbedded ; and in that of one side in several cases the adhesion was tolerably firm. The usual blood-spots indicating organization were distinct. Between the uterus and rectum in several cases was an extensive albuminous exu- dation, forming a cyst containing purulent fluid; and a smaller one of the same kind was found between the uterine and vesical perito- naeum. In more severe cases the inflammatory process spreads over the intestinal peritonaeum, and produces its usual effects. The commencement of this disease in the uterine and ovarian peritonaeum is not wonderful, when the extraordinary distension of that membrane during tbe latter months of pregnancy is consider- ed,. Denman remarks that there are not wanting instances in which it has been' evidently forming before delivery, or during labour; Joseph Clarke states that he saw reason to date the commencement of several cases from before delivery, and refers to two in which this conclusion was justified by the speedy extinction of life after labour, and the appearances on inspection, (44); and Hey refers to two cases, one fatal, in which symptoms appeared previous to de- livery. These inferences I have now had occasion to verify more than once. I had occasion in the summer of 1828 to detract in two days fifty ounces of blood with corresponding antiphlogistic measures, in order to check incipient symptoms of peritoneal in- flammation in a lady during the latter part of pregnancy. Though peritoneal inflammation in puerperal females, compli- cated as it often is with inflammation of the ovaries, of the uteiine veins, or of the uterine lymphatics, often terminates fatally, and that at an early period; yet in certain cases it does not immedi- ately end in this wray, but causes so much destruction of parts, oi ^ives rise to such morbid products, that the patient, after lingering for four or six weeks in a state of great feebleness, usually with hectic fever, is suddenly or slowly cut off.