16 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY* And lastly, several saline substances, as phosphate of lime, carbo- nate of lime, soda, hydrochlorate of soda, are found in variable proportions in most of them. Of these principles albumen and fibrin, which are closely allied and pass into each other, are the most common and abundant. Osmazome, which is probably a mo- dification of fibrin, is less frequent. These also are contained in the blood, and are derived from that fluid. Gelatine, though not found in the blood, is nevertheless a principle of extensive dis- tribution, being found in skin, cellular tissue, tendon, cartilage, and bone. These proximate principles are resolved, in ultimate analysis, into carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, azote, phosphorus, and sulphur. From the saline substances, calcium, potassium, sodium, chlorine, iron, and manganese may be obtained. Mulder maintains the existence of another element named pro- teine, obtained by a particular process from albumen. Its cha- racter is that it is a common element to albumen, fibrin, and various of the elements of the tissues. The different organized solids which enter into the composition of the human body may be referred to the following seventeen simple tissues. Filamentous or cellular tissue, including the or- dinary cellular membrane and adipose membrane; artery, vein, with their minute communications, termed capillary vessels, and the erectile vessels; lymphatic vessel and gland; nerve, plexus, and ganglion; brain ; muscle ; white fibrous system, including li- gament, periosteum, and fascia; yellow fibrous system, including the yellow ligaments, &c.; bone and tooth; gristle or cartilage ; fibro-cartilage; skin ; mucous membrane ; serous membrane ; sy- novial membrane; compound membranes, for instance the fibro- mucous, and fibro-serous; and lastly, the peculiar matter which forms the liver, the kidneys, the female breast, the testicle, and other organs termed glands. To these may be added the compound textures or organs; in which two or more simple textures are united; as the heart and lungs; the larynx ; the stomach, duodenum, and alimentary canal; the bladder, prostate gland, and penis; and the female organs of generation, as the uterus, ovaries, Fal- lopian tubes, and vagina with appendages. These tissues may be distinguished into orders, according to the mode of their distribution in the animal frame. Several, for in- stance filamentous tissue, artery and vein, lymphatic vessel, and nerve, are most extensively distributed, and enter into the compo-