GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 494 CHAPTER VI. fibro-cartilage,— Cartilago Fibrosa,— Tissue Fibro- Cartila- gineux,— Chondro-Desmoid Texture. Section I. i > Intermediate between the cartilaginous and the fibrous tissues, Bichat ranks that of the fibro-cartilages, which comprehends three subdivisions. lsf, The membranous fibro-cartilages, as those of the ears, nose, windpipe, eyelids, &c.; 2d, The inter-articular fibro- cartilages, as those found in the temporo-maxillary and femoro- tibial articulations, the intervertebral substances, and the cartila- ginous bodies uniting the bones of the pelvis; 3d, Certain portions of the periosteum, in which, when a tendinous sheath is formed, the peculiar nature of the fibrous system disappears, and is succeeded by a substance belonging to the order of fibro-cartilages. Beclard follows Meckel in rejecting the first of these subdivisions, the individuals of which are quite similar to ordinary cartilage. Like it, they do not present the distinct fibrous structure, but are covered by perichondrium, the fibres of which have evidently caused them to be regarded as fibro-cartilages. On this principle Beclard gives the following view of the fibro-cartilages. lsf, Fibro-cartilages free at both surfaces; those in the form of menisci, which are placed between the articular surfaces of two bones; {fibro cartilagines inter-articulares.) These are seen in the temporo-maxillary, sterno-clavicular,and femoro-tibial articulations, and occasionally in the acromio-clavicular and the ulno-carpal joints. These ligaments are attached either by their margins or their extremities, and are enveloped in a thin fold of synovial mem- brane. 2d, Fibro-cartilages attached by one surface. Of this de- scription are those employed as pulleys or grooves for the easy motion of tendons; for instance the chondro-desmoid eminences attached to the margin of the glenoid cavity for the long head of the biceps, and at the sinuosity of the ischium for the tendons of the obturatores. 3d, Fibro-cartilages, which establish a connection be- tween bones susceptible of little individual motion, as the interver- tebral bodies; or which unite bones intended to remain fixed, unless 4