MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—TUBERCLES. 1009 ties of moderate size, some containing air, others puriform dirty-look- ing mucus. The largest cavities are most commonly formed in the apex or upper region of the upper lobe; but occasionally a con- siderable cavity is found near the middle, or tending towards the base of the upper lobe, and corresponding with the pectoral and axillary regions externally. Cavities filled entirely or partially with matter have been named Vomica, sometimes abscesses rather im- properly, and with greater propriety softened tubercular masses. When wholly or partially emptied, they are usually named tuber- cular cavities, or cavities, tubercular excavations, or simply excava- tions. Lower down, for instance in the lower part of the upper lobes* the cavities are few, small, or none ; in the middle lobe of the right side, also cavities are rarely observed; and the lower lobes of both sides are in general entirely free from cavities. The whole of these parts, however, are more or less indurated by the presence of hard, solid, irregular-shaped masses, variable in size, but in general larger and more numerous in the upper and middle region of the united lungs than in the lower region. When the caverns {vomica,) above noticed, are examined, they are observed to vary, not only in size, but in shape. They vary from the size of a large pea or small bean to that of a walnut, a pigeon s egg, or even a small pippin. Though their shape is more or less ovoidal, they are always irregular, and sometimes consist of one large or considerable cavern with two or three small append- ages. ihe interior is always irregular, and more or less traversed by cylindrical bands or chords, {septa,) {trabecula,) about the twelfth, the tenth, or the eighth of an inch in diameter, passing in various directions, but generally observing that of the longitudtnal diameter of the Inng, or observing a slight degree of obliquity. These bands or chords {trabecula,) are formed in various modes Laennec believed them to be formed of the natural tissue of the lungs, condensed as it were, and charged with tubercular matter and maintains that he in no case found them to present traces of having contained blood-vessels. Schroeder, on the other hand, who frequently injected tuberculated and excavated lungs, represents hem to be formed chiefly by the gradual and progressive oblitera- tion of small blood-vessels by means of inflammation, the large ones receiving nutriment after the small ones have ceased to do so.* * Observation^ Anatomibo-Pathologici et Practici Argument!, Auctore J C L p a7n7 and 78’ ^ D°Ct Pawiculu9 I. Amstelodami; 3 s