LACRYMAL AND SALIVARY GLANDS—CONCRETIONS. 829 rheumatic symptoms. In one of the instances given by Cunier, the patient had, six years previously, viz. in 1831, been cut for stone in the bladder by Dupuytren. Lacrymal concretions have been analyzed at different times by different persons. Fuchs found in the concretions given him by Walther carbonate of lime, forming the largest part of the weight, and traces of phosphate of lime and albumen. The concretions met with by Cunier consisted chiefly, according to Pasquier, of car- bonate of lime, with traces of phosphate of lime and muriate of soda; and in one there was some phosphate of magnesia. Lastly, the concretion removed by Desmarres was analysed by Bouchar- dat and gave the following results;—solid albuminous matter, 25 parts ; mucus, 18 parts ; carbonate of lime, 48 parts; phosphate of lime and magnesia, 9 parts; with traces of fat and muriate of soda.* Ihese facts seem to justify the views taken by Walther, Cunier, and Desmarres, that the formation of lacrymal concretions, like that of other concretions, depends on general causes. Lacrymal concretions are perhaps disposed to be formed more readily from the complexity and tortuosity of the lacrymal pas- sages, and also from their narrowness and liability to inflammatory thickening and obstruction. J Salivary concretions have not quite so frequently been observed as acrymal concretions. They are nevertheless by no means un- common. The most usual situation for salivary concretions to be present- ed are either beneath the tongue in the ducts of the sublingual glands, or m the duct of Wharton leading from the submaxillary In the former situation the cases are so numerous, that it is im- possible in this place to enumerate the twentieth part of them. I shall merely mention that instances of salivary concretions have been recorded by L^ter, Freeman, Scherer, (1737); BaccioccW (1749); Hamberger, (1754); IiandtwiV u 1 ’ <T7fi2 and 1*7841 • w ii / uantttwig, (1754); Hartmann, rai others! ’ ^ ™n SieboU>) “nd ™ F,a- frequent. Since the thne of Ftajani^ £* Annales d Oculiste. Paris, 1842.