GLANDULAR ORGANS—LACRYMAL GLAND. 615 amaurosis follows ;* or the vitreous humor and lens are so much compressed, that sight is greatly impaired. Even without this compression the sight may be lost. This is probably owing to the nervous connection between the divisions of the first part of the fifth nerve,—one of which supplies the lacrymal gland,—and the branches of the same nerve, which are distributed to the ciliary processes. Portal states, that he found it affected with scirrhus, and even pioceeding to ulceration in dead bodies; especially in the body of one female who had cancer in both mammae, and who some time before death had an attack of chronic ophthalmia. It is often difficult to distinguish between mere induration, the effect of chronic inflammation and scirrhus of the gland. In both the gland is hard and enlarged, and causes a prominent swelling, more or less distinct, at the superior outer angle of the orbit. The eye is pressed downwards; and more or less ophthalmia affects the palpebral and ocular conjunctiva. At first the secretion of tears is augmented ; but after the disease has continued some time it is diminished; and the peculiar symptom called xerophthalmia or preternatural dryness of the eye is induced. . P* disease ^med cancer of the eyeball often originates either m the lacrymal gland, or in the caruncula lacrymalis. Conversely, if scirrhus affect the eyeball, it may spread to the lacrymal gland. Guerin states that he extirpated a lacrymal gland affected with scir- rhus, whi e the eye appears to have been unaffected. This he did with so great dexterity, that the rectus externus muscle was not touched. nwf ^ Ti t swelling so considerable, that it covered com- plete^ the g obe of the eye. The eye, however, was found quite knew no tumour of the lacrymal gland. Richerand, who knew n° other instance of extirpation of the gland alone, is inclined believe the case solitary. It is certainly much more common to remove the gland, sound or diseased, in removing the eye than to remove the diseased gland alone without the eye. 7 sinl thatTf ^ neVCrtheIeSS’ b°en heatedly removed Mr T aver 7bv Mr O-R™ by'-Dllral de R™„eS)t by » ravers,if by Mi OBeirne m 1820,§ by Mr Todd in i«9i n Red, Memorabilia Clinica. Vol. i. Fascicul. i p jf8 Paris, 1814. Ovo. P. 233. yL and their Treatment. London, 1820 and 1824, § On Diseases of the Lacrymal oiami m , ports, Vol. iii. p 407 ' ' ’ y Clar,es H. Todd. Dublin Hospital Re- 11 Ibid.