GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 238 a peculiar manner. This group Malacarne names the tonsil, or tonsils, (tonsille,)* a term which Reil, regarding it synonymous with amygdala, renders literally almonds, (Die Mandeln); the spinal lo- bide of Dr Gordon. If the cerebellum be examined before the head of the spinal chord is cut from the protuberance, the inner margin of the almond will be found contiguous to the oval emi- nence (corpus olivare,) and even pressed by it. It is best, however, to examine the almonds after the chord (medulla oblongata) has been removed. It will then be perceived that each almond is bounded on the outside by a well-marked circular furrow, which separates it from the biventral lobe on the inside by a free surface directed to the corresponding surface of the opposite almond; and before, by a continuation of this directed outwards toward the bi- ventral lobe. I have already said that the direction of the consti- tuent plates of this body is peculiar. In general they observe a direction opposite to that of the biventral plates; so that, if pro- duced, they would cross. Its apex or most pointed corner is con- tiguous to that of the biventral lobe ; and altogether, each almond presents the appearance, on a cursory glance, of two similar bodies directed inversely to each other. The last body which I shall notice here is the Flock or Flocks. The description of its situation, as given by Malacarne, is by no means clear ; but perusal of the context, with examination of the parts described, can leave no doubt on the certainty of the object which he has in view. The flock (ilJioccho, ilfiocchi, Die Flocken,) is a minute body, of a shape not easily defined, situate in the an- gular hollow between the biventral lobe and the branch or peduncle (crus ; gamba ; braccia; Die Arme) of the small brain. The lower or free surface of the latter object (the branch) possesses an ante- rior and posterior margin or corner. The latter is contiguous to the biventral lobe, from which it is separated by a small furrow, out of which the flock seems to issue. Each flock consists of six or seven plates (laminae) starting directly, as it were, from the be- ginning of the peduncle, and with the concave margins directed towards the protuberance. Ruysch has represented in their site objects to which he applies the name of vermiform prominences; a circumstance which is in some measure to be ascribed to the vague manner in which this term has been used. Encefalotomia, Artlcolo ix.