NERVOUS TISSUE. 361 of several small nervous chords placed in juxtaposition, and each of which, consisting of appropriate neurilema and nervous substance, is connected to the other by delicate filamentous tissue. These, however, do not, through their entire course, maintain the parallel disposition in respect to each other, but are observed to cross and penetrate each other, so as to form an intimate inteilaceinent of ner- vous chords and filaments, each of which, however minute, is accom- panied with its investing neurilema. The neurilema, in short, may be represented as a cylindrical membranous tube, giving from its inner surface many productions forming smaller tubes; ( Canaliculi, Die Nervenrohre ; primitive cylinders of Fontana ;*) in which the proper nervous matter is contained. Of this arrangement the consequence is, that each nerve or ner- vous trunk, enveloped in its general neurilema, is composed, never- theless, of a number more or less considerable of smaller chord- like nervous threads (funiculi nervei, Prochaska; chorda, fanes, Nervenstraenge, Red,) into which the nerve, by maceration and suitable preparation, may be resolved. Each chord, again, or nerve-string, as Red terms it, though invested with a proper nuri- lem, may be further resolved into an infinite number of minute fili- form or capillary filaments, (Fila, fbrillee, Nervenfasern, Red,) which, invested in a delicate covering, are understood to constitute the ultimate texture of the nerve. This threefold division may be easily observed in the brachial and spiral nerves of the arm, and still more distinctly in the sciatic in the thigh. The utility of understanding the internal arrange- ment from which it results will appear forthwith, when the struc- ture of those parts termed ganglions and plexuses comes under examination. Of this arrangement in different nerves, and in different regions, this membrane undergoes great modification ; and all opinions on its nature derived from thickness or transparency are liable to con- siderable fallacy. Scarpa seems to view it as connected, in ana- tomical origin and character, with the hard membrane, (ineninx dura, dura mater.) Reil, who devoted more care and time to the examination of its nature and structure than any other inquirer, represents it as consisting of cellular substance, many blood-vessels, and some lymphatics.f Bichat thought it resembled the soft mem- * Observations sur la structure ties Nerfs, &c. apud Traite sur le Venin, &c. par M, Felix Fontana. + De Structura Nervorum, cap. i. p. 3.