126 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. fluid. Tonelle found among 222 cases suppuration of the uterine veins in 90 cases. Dr Lee among 45 cases inspected found traces of inflammation of the uterine veins in 24. Taking both together, we have among 267 cases 114 instances of uterine phlebitis. This is not quite one-half; but it is as near as may be three-sevenths. The venous tubes of the brain have been found presenting marks of inflammation by Dr Abercromby* and M. Gendrin.f I have found inflammatory products, as lymph and purulent matter with clots of blood, within the sinuses of the brain, in the following cir- cumstances. 1. In certain cases of inflammation of the internal ear and the petrous portion of the temporal bone, when inflammatory action had spread to the internal jugular vein in the temporal fossa. 2. In certain cases of gangrenous inflammation of the lungs, when suppuration takes place in the brain ; and when the agents of this process appear to be the venous canals of the lungs opening into the gangrenous or suppurating portion. Thus, in a child of two years, in whom this affection of the lungs had taken place, I found the convolutions of the brain flattened, the longitudinal sinus filled with lymph and purulent particles and clots of blood, and a similar state of the lateral sinuses, and several of the small sinuses. 3. In cases of hypertrophy of the spleen. This shall be noticed under its proper head. It appears, therefore, that inflammation of the inner venous coat rarely terminates in albuminous exudation and adhesion; and it may be stated as a peculiar character of this tissue, as distinct from the inner arterial membrane, that, while the latter is almost sure to assume the adhesive, the former is exceedingly prone to the suppu- rative form of inflammation. 3. Instances, nevertheless, have occurred in which inflammation of this membrane was followed by deposition of lymph and union of its free surfaces, producing obliteration of the canal of the vessel. Dr Baillie mentions an instance of obliteration of the lower cava, from the emulgent veins to the entrance of the venae cavai hepaticcc, which he ascribes to effusion of lymph and consequent adhesion and Mr Wilson records a similar case in which about four ounces of well-formed purulent fluid were found in the vena cava imme- * Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. XVIII. Revue Medicale, Avril 1826. + Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Know- ledge, Vol. I. Art. viii. p. 133.