LYMPHATIC GLAND OR GANGLION. 223 pultaceous matter and atheromatous matter. In some of these ty- romatous deposits are observed portions much firmer, sometimes as hard as cartilage, and in some as solid as earthy or stony mattei. This deposit of earthy or bony matter also takes place in the li- quid or semifluid form, and gradually becomes thick and consis- tent by the absorption of the serous or most fluid part; and the earthy or gypseous portion shows its true nature by becoming solid and its particles coalescing. This deposit is liable to take place in any of the glands. It is, however, most common in the bronchial lymphatic glands and in the mesenteric lymphatic glands, and in the lymphatic glands of the neck. In the bronchial lymphatic glands it is mostly a disease of infancy, certainly of early life. I have not seen it much in adults; but I have repeatedly met with it in dissecting the bodies of infants and children; and many of the thoracic and tracheal affections to which children are liable may either he traced to or are associated with the presence of enlarged and tyromatous bronchial glands. This may be caused by the fact, that most children, in whom the bronchial glands are tyromatous, die in childhood. Enlargement of the bronchial and tracheal glands gives rise to great dyspnoea, and sometimes to symptoms of crowing inspiration. In the glands of the neck it is less hurtful, not being a cause of disease in the lungs or trachea ; and hence it continues longer with- out influencing much the duration of life. In the abdomen, on the other hand, it is different. For there it evidently compresses the lacteals proceeding from the intestinal tube. At the same time it is there seldom alone, but is preceded by more or less disease, often enlargement and ulceration of the intestinal fol- licles, as was mentioned when speaking of common glandular en- largement. This species of deposit takes place chiefly in those in whom the habit called strumous predominates. It is supposed, indeed, to be the eflfectand an indication of thestrumous disposition; and such pro- bably it generally is. Though not a heterologous deposit, and con- sisting entirely of crude albumen insusceptible of organization, yet it is in its consequences sufficiently hurtful. When large tyromatous glands compress the bronchial tubes and lungs, and cause cough and difficult and laborious breathing, they may also by their size and position compress important blood-vessels and seriously de- range the circulation. lyromatous glands, after becoming consistent, are liable to under-