924 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Weighing 162 grains. Occasional slight jaundice. Symptoms of ileus.* The same gentleman records, in a female of 65, an instance in which, after much suffering, a flat cubical concretion, with rounded angles and concave depressed sides, weighing 176 grains, and one inch in diameter, was voided; and another, six days after, hemispherical in shape, and 159 grains, was expelled. ‘No jaundice. I met, in March 1824, with a case in an elderly lady, who, after being very ill for eight days with symptoms of obstinate ileus, voided a large spherical biliary concretion, weighing, when dried, 160 grains, and measuring one inch two lines in diameter. In this case no yellowness ever was observed.f Dr Robert Paterson of Leith presented to me, in 1842, the half of a spherical gall-stone, fully one inch in diameter, which had been voided some time previously by a patient of his, after pre- senting symptoms of obstinate obstruction, without jaundice. Dr James Arthur Wilson records a case in which a gentleman of 73, after suffering from constipation, with jaundice and hiccup, and vomiting for many days, voided a large biliary concretion, con- sisting of cholesterine in the centre, and inspissated bile with choles- terine externally.^; The question has often occui'red to my mind since I witnessed the violent and obstinate symptoms both of inflammation and intestinal obstruction, with which the case now referred to was attended, whether these large calculi merely distend the ducts before getting into the intestinal canal, or pave to themselves a passage by inflammation and ulceration. It appears to me that though, in some instances, dilatation of the ducts may take place, and be sufficient for the transport of the concretion, yet in several inflammation and ulceration had taken place. Though I distinguish this class of cases from those which^are to come next, yet we must remember that nature knows no distinction of this kind. When a gall-stone is fixed either in one part of any of the three ducts, or in the gall-bladder, it may there give rise to inflammation and suppu- ration of the surrounding textures; and it will depend on several * An Account of two Cases of Biliary Calculi of extraordinary Dimensions. By T. Brayne, Esq. Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, Vol. xii. p. 255. London, 1823. ■j* History of a case in which the symptoms of Iliac Passion arose from the transit of an unusually large gall-stone, terminating favourably. By David Craigie, M. D. Edin- burgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxii. p. 235. Edinburgh, 1824. + An Account, &c. Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. xxvi. London, 1843.