351 BRAIN. tan,* * * ยง Headington,f and Morrah,J though more recent, are not more unequivocal, since their authors give no description of the physical characters by which their claim to the title of hydatids might be determined. Upon the whole, though the occurrence of the genuine solitary animal hydatid in the brain may not be impossible, it is not clear that any of the cases hitherto recorded belong to this head. They are to be regarded rather as serous or vesicular cysts, (Portal, Anat. Med. Tome IV. p. 72,) or examples of the tumour called (hygroma). Of this kind also are the case described by Forlani of Sienna, containing glutinous matter like white of egg,ยง and the globular cysts so beautifully represented by Dr Hooper in his four- teenth engraving. The cases mentioned by Fischer, Zeder, and others, belong to the membranes. b. Steatoms are mentioned by Drelincurtius, Thomann, Home, and Bouillaud. c. The blood-cyst, (hcematoma). The occurrence of this in the brain, though not common, has been observed. Like haematoma in other regions, it consists of a membranous cyst, sometimes con- taining small cysts, the inner surface of which is composed of a vascular tissue, from which blood or bloody fluid exudes by exha- lation, forming a mass resembling layers of coagulated blood. Of this disease the most distinct example is given by Rochoux. A man of 65, about twenty months after a violent blow on the head which stunned him, began to feel pain and weight of the head, with occasional moments of forgetfulness. These symptoms became more severe and more frequent, were followed by embarrassed speech, palsy of the left side of the face, great general weakness, coma, and death. In the anterior and external part of the left he- misphere was found a firm red-brown tumour, the size of an egg, round, flattened, filled with blood, which in certain places appeared to be contained as in the spleen, in others in small clots of a line diameter of an areolar-cellular tissue, grayish, dense, and analogous in appearance to the matter of tubercles. Adhering without to the dura mater of the arachnoid, which was red and much thick- * Recherches, &c. Chap. x. Acephalocystes, p. 166. t Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. XV. 504. X Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. II. p. 262. ยง Caspar M. Forlani, Obs. Med. Pract. Anat. Senis, 1769.