PAROTID GLAND—STRUMOUS ENLARGEMENT. 819 part of the gland to assume proper action, had effected cicatriza- tion. Tenon speaks of a tumour of the parotid gland which attains a large size, yet he says without change in structure. The instance which he describes took place in a child, on the left cheek of whom appeared a tumour almost as large as the fist, extending from the ear to the angle of the lip. This tumour, which had grown gra- dually from the birth of the child, was soft, white, indolent, move- able, and composed apparently of glandular grains. It appeared also traversed by large vessels, which formed in various parts of the skin networks of spiral form or reddish whorls. The child died not from the tumour, but from a different cause. Tenon found that the tumour was formed by the parotid gland, which had ac- quiied gieat size, and exceeded its usual limits. Large arteries pioceeding from the external carotid and external maxillary enter- i ed the lower part of the gland.* This seems to have been an example of simple strumous enlarge- ment, or at most of hypertrophy occurring in the strumous. If there was no perceptible change in structure, that must be ascribed to the short duration of the affection ; for the enlarged state of the arteries shows that they were conveying much blood into the gland ; and though this seemed only to be giving rise to simple enlarge- ment, it is impossible to doubt, that the characteristic deposition of strumous disorganization would soon follow. A case similar is recorded by Dr Duke.f The same species of changes may take place In the submaxillary am sublingual glands, though in these they have probably attract- ed less attention. A peculiar cause of enlargement of the sub- maxillary gland is the irritation of teething, and especially the presence of canons molar teeth; and both these and the sublingual glands may become enlarged from the irritation of the gastro-in- testmal mucous membrane in disorders of the alimentary canal. These disorders cause sour offensive exhalations to arise, indicating S.Br f eh^ PrePared- The blood is consequently in an tty state, and this, again, appears to irritate the glands, and to excite heir vessels to increased and disordered actio.t the other 5 “ “T11, “T °f enlar8“ of the parotid and Who he ■ t Vatb ? '8 US° °f mercury in strumous habits. Whether ,t be that mercury operates always lmrtfully in the stru- * Memoirea de l’Academie des Sciences, 1760 + t-cmckl Medical and Surgical J01mal, XXI. Feb. 19, i342.