TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 577 the tube, which was kept in the wound, that it seemed impossible to doubt that it had been produced by the constant pressure and irritation of the tube on the posterior surface of the windpipe. I am aware that it may be said, that if the tube were so placed, it was improperly placed ; and not only must have produced irritation in the windpipe, but could not have acted as a tube to convey air into the windpipe and out again in the actious of respiration. It is also possible that some ulcer or ulceration may have existed there previously, and may have been associated, as is often the case, with chronic disease of the larynx. To this it is not necessary to give any other answer than merely stating the facts of the case. This patient had been subjected to the use of mercury in full courses, more than once; and of this the laryngeal affection was the result. § 2. a. Croup (.Bronchiasis albuminosa) may be defined to be inflammation of the tracheo-bronchial mucous membrane, termi- nating in sero-albuminous exudation. The points deserving atten- tion in the pathology of this disease, are, lsf, the fact of inflamma- I tion; 2d, the extent of the process ; and, 3dly, its effects. The in- flamed state of the tracheo-bronchial membrane is established be- yond doubt. Home observed that it was redder than natural when the concrete covering is detached; Rumsey recognized manifest traces of inflammation ; in Cheyne’s cases the vessels of the membrane i were large, distinct, and sometimes numerous, (9th.) The same : was seen by Albers, Jurine, and Bretonneau. In short, whether . the membranous exudation be present or absent, the tracheo- ■ bronchial membrane is always more or less red, bloodshot, vil- lous, and swollen; and puriform fluid oozes from the bronchial tubes. This inflammation is seated in the tracheo-bronchial membrane I solely. It begins immediately below the cricoid cartilage, and ex- tends along the tube into the bronchi and bronchial membrane. It is less frequently observed to affect the laryngeal membrane; and when it does so, this is to be viewed as a complication not essential to genuine croup. It may, nevertheless, in extreme cases, affect the pharynx, larynx, and trachea, covering their surface with a false membranous exudation. The disease, from this circumstance, re- ceives the name of Diplitheritis. "I lie effect of this inflammation is to produce from the surface of the membrane a fluid or semifluid secretion, which soon undergoes o o