STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—THE KIDNEY. 787 First is a large but short duct or canal lined by a membrane con- tinuous with that of the pelvis; this terminates in a shut or closed cavity called cup, (calyx) or funnel (;infundibulum). Into this cavity projects a small conical eminence, (papilla), with an aperture in its apex. From this, urine may be made by pressure to exude; and when the papilla is divided by a longitudinal section, it is observed that one short duct from which the urine issues, is the termination of a great number of small capillary tubes which are disposed lon- gitudinally, yet radiating or converging towards the small papillary duct. These are the uriniferous ducts of Bellini; (tubuli Belliniani). At these upper or peripheral ends is placed a species of structure which is parenchymatous and granular in aspect but vascular in ari angement, that is, it consists mostly of blood-vessels ramified to an infinite degree of minuteness and delicacy. On the mode in which these vessels are arranged at their terminations, Muller states that the arteries terminate in a very minute and delicate vascular or capillary network, which lies between the closed ends of these tubes, and that from this network again veins arise as in other textures of the body. The papillary cone, which is about half an inch from base to apex, and rather less than half an inch at base, consists of firm solid matter, the colour of which is white or pale gray. Its exte- rior structure is formed of numerous tubes uniting and converging irom the base to the papilla or apex. Beyond this the substance of the tubular part is of a bright pink colour, less firm, but more distinctly consisting of multiplied tubes placed close to each other, and converging from the base to the segment of the frustum, on which the papillary portion rests. n the bear and badger, these separate lobules or diminutive kidneys are still more numerous ; but the internal arrangement is quite the same. ° In the dolphin and porpoise the same multiplied division is car ned to a very great length. The masses called kidneys in these animals consist of an immense number of tetrahedral l •, , 20°, yet have not exhausted them FanL , internal tubular or medullary po^, t