396 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. part of an inch, whatever be their length. They seem all more or less flattened or angular, and appear to be solid diaphanous fila- ments. Prochaska appears not to doubt that these muscular threads, (fla earned) are incapable of further division; and he therefore terms them ■primary muscular fibres. The microscopical examination of the atomic constitution of the muscular filament, which was first attempted by Lewenhoeck, and afterwards prosecuted by Della Torre, Fontana, Monro, and Pro- chaska, was in 1818 and 1826 revived by M. Bauer, the indefati- gable assistant of Sir E. Home. From the observations of this accu- rate inquirer, each muscular filament appears to consist of a series of globular or oblong spheroidal atoms, disposed in a linear direc- tion, and connected by a transparent elastic jelly-like matter.* The primary muscular fibres are placed close and parallel to each other, and are united in every species of muscle into bundles ; (_fasciculi; lacerli;) of different, but determinate size; and, accord- ing as these bundles are large or small, the appearance of the muscle is coarse or delicate. In the deltoid the bundles are the largest. In the vasti, glutcei, and large pectoral muscles the bundles are greatly larger than in the psoce. In the muscles of the face, of the ball of the eye, of the hyoid bone, and especially in those of the perinseum, these bundles are very minute, and almost incapa- ble of being distinguished. The number of ultimate filaments which compose a bundle varies in different muscles, and probably in different animals. In a muscular fibre of moderate size in the human subject, Prochaska estimates them to vary from 100 to 200; and in animals with larger fibres, at double, triple, or even four times that number, f There is reason to conclude, from correct microscopic observation, that the largest do not exceed the gth of an inch, and that the smallest are not less than T th. By cutting a muscle across, these bundles are observed to differ not only in size but in shape. Some are oblong and rhomboidal; others present a triangular or quadrangular section; and in some even the irregular pentagon or polygon may be recognized. These bundles are united by filamentous tissue of various degrees of delicacy, as may be shown by the effects of boiling; and the * The Croonian Lecture. On the changes the blood undergoes in the act of coagu- lation. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V. P. R. S. Phil. Trans. 1818,]). 175. the Croonian Lecture. On the structure of a muscular fibre, from which is derived its elongation and contraction. By Sir E. Home, Bart., &c. &c. Phil. Trans. 182(1, Part 2d, p. 64. f De Carne Musculari, Sect. i. Chap. iii.