41 FILAMENTOUS OR CELLULAR TISSUE. plish colour, with shivering, sickness, vomiting, great restlessness, heat, and thirst; pulse at first hard, quick, full and jarring, after- wards weak, fluttering, and irregular; brown tongue and mental disorder. After three, four, or five days, a small quantity of ill- conditioned matter, and sloughs of the cellular and adipose mem- brane are formed. This inflammation may spread along the ure- thral and scrotal filamentous tissue, and form the urethral abscess (abscessus juxta urethram) of Mr James. Of this an instructive example is related by John Hunter at the passage above referred to. The disease is distinguished according to him by the combina- tion of the suppurative with the erysipelatous spreading inflamma- tion. “ It is not so circumscribed as the former; nor does it spread along the skin like the latter. But the skin is shining and oedematous; and the inflammation goes deep into the filamentous tissue, and forms dusky, fetid, purulent fluid, sometimes with air in a bag or abscess, without previous adhesion.” The inflammation may pass downward and forward into the scrotum and beside the urethra, and upwards by the dense filamentous tissue of the belly and loins; and when openings are made, either artificially or by the process of ulceration, matter is discharged, and the mortified membrane hangs out like wet dirty tow. (Hunter, p. 368.) Yet, notwithstanding this extensive destruction both of filamentous tissue and even of skin, it is remarkable that the rectum generally escapes. f When this disease appears in other parts of the body after wounds with foul instruments, bites of poisonous animals, as the rattlesnake or the cobra di capello, morbid animal secretions, or the juice of the acrid plants, applied in any manner to the exposed corion, its characters and phenomena may be easily understood from the description already given. (j. 1 am uncertain whether to this head should be referred the peculiar fatal inflammation which succeeds punctured and lacerated wounds of the extremities, compound fractures with much contu- sion, compound luxations and severe gun-shot wounds. This is commonly regarded as gangrene, and is familiarly termed trau- matic gangrene. It consists, however, in a peculiar form of inflam- mation, spieading rapidly along the subcutaneous and intermuscu- lar cellular tissue, accompanied with emphysematous distension, and causing great constitutional disturbance, in which disorder of the brain and its functions are conspicuous characters. Death ge- nerally takes place before any of the tissues are mortified, in con-