982 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, blood within vessels and out of them ; while bloody serum escapes copiously from the proper pulmonic cellular tissue. These may be regarded as the general characters of inflamed lung. These characters nevertheless vary according to the pro- gress of the disease; and it is observed, that a lung in a state of inflammation presents different characters, as that inflammation is in its commencement, is established, is completed, or is subsiding. Laennec describes three different degrees of pneumonic inflamma- tion, and distinguishes them; 1st, according as the lung is red or vio- let, but crepitates and discharges, when cut, a frothy blood-coloured fluid; the stage of obstruction ; 2d, as the portion of lung is destitute of crepitation, and is red and granulated interiorly, without discharge of fluid when cut, unless squeezed; the stage of hepatization or earnification ; 3(7, as it is consistent and granular, its section a pale yellow, a straw or stone-gray colour, and as it discharges a consi- derable quantity of opaque, yellowish, viscid fluid, from many points of its cut surface ;—the stage of gray hepatization or purulent in- filtration. In this state the substance of the lung is friable and lacerable, and easily gives way. I think four different stages may be recognized, exclusive of ef- fects. In the first, the lung is dark red, or reddish-brown, or violet- coloured, and does not collapse when the chest is opened. It feels also slightly more firm and resisting, but not so much as in the next stage. When cut, it is observed to be loaded with blood, which is very abundant in the filaraento-cellular tissue ; much blood and bloody serum escapes ; frothy serous fluid also is observed to issue from divided bronchial tubes, lhe lung still crepitates, but is slightly cedematous, or at least receives the impression of the finger. When a lung in this state is examined by the microscope, no morbid product is seen in the filamento-cellular tissue. The ves- sels, that is, the capillaries, are injected and loaded with fluid blood, generally dark coloured, and with serum. The air-cells, 01 at least the small divisions of the bronchial tubes, are filled with serum mixed with air. This is the stage of injection or bloody congestion, and it affects the capillary vessels, the filamento-cellular tissue, and the air-cells of the lungs. It is therefore pneumonia with vesicular bronchitis. ^ . 1 This state of lung may affect one or both lungs. W hen it af- fects both, it often proves fatal, from the great extent, not the m-