BRAIN. 235 * Encefalotomia, mi ova, & c. Parte iii. Articolo i. No. 13. cular fissure (incnrvatura^) and by Reil, to whose fancy this epithet seems to have been deficient in expression, the purse-like fissure (Der beutelfbrmige Ausschnitt.) Between these two well-marked boundaries the cerebellic plates, of which the hemispheres consist, are united in the middle by a confused interlacing junction, (un in- treccio confuso eel irregolare di sostanza,') to which the Italian ana- tomist gives the name of suture (raffe, raphe) of the cerebellum. I find that the careful removal of the soft membrane, (pia mater,) renders this more distinct, and shows the mesial termination of the hemispherical plates. On the surface, a large hollow between the hemispheres, and extending backwards from the semilunar to the purse-like fissure, previously called by Haller (vallecula,) the little valley, received from Malacarne the corresponding term (Valletta) in his own language. The divisions of the cerebellic surface made by Malacarne, and adopted by Reil, are founded entirely on the groups of plates, and the comparative depth of the furrows by which these groups are separated. Groups of plates, separated by the deepest furrows, are named lobes, (lobi, M. Lappen, R.); and those separated by furrows of less depth are named lobules, (lohetti, M. Lappchen, R.) In some situations the lobules present divisions formed by furrows of less depth, between which the groups of plates are of greater or less size. To such clusters Malacarne gives the name of laminar leaflets, (foglietti laminosi.fi Each hemispherical surface consists of five lobes. 1. The ante- rior-upper. 2. The posterior-upper. 3. The posterior-lower. 4. The slender, rarely exceeding three lines in breadth. 5. The two- bellied or biventral. The two first belong to the upper or flat hemispherical surface; the three latter to the lower or convex he- mispherical surface. Besides these, a sixth lobe may be mentioned as common to the two hemispheres. It is situate on the mesial plane of the upper surface, between the anterior end of the middle line (raffe,) and the middle or apex of the semilunar fissure. This situation is not an improper reason for the name by which Mala- carne has distinguished it,—the central lobe. In the bottom of the purse-like notch are many bundles or clusters of plates, which unite the posterior lobes of the upper and lower surfaces to those of the opposite hemispheres. These Ma- lacarne names transverse laminar chords (cordoni laminosi traver- sali,) or commissures of the cerebellum.