GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1050 degrees; but in all the effect would be to keep the orifice of the artery more or less obstructed. Such I believe to be the cause of the coalesced state of the semi- lunar valves in cases of this class. This coalition of the valves is very constantly connected with more or less malformation of the heart, by which the two sides of that organ communicate. Thus it is observed in open foramen ovale, in perforation or deficiency of the septum, and in cases in which the aorta arises from the right ventricle, or from both ventricles at once. I have elsewhere attempted to show that, taking into con- sideration all the circumstances of this lesion, it is probably the cause of these communications, or bears to them such a relation that the arctation of the pulmonary artery renders these communi- cations between the right and left chambers requisite. In some rare cases only two semilunar valves are found at the orifice of the pulmonary artery; and Dr Theophilus Thomson re- cords a case of unusually large pulmonary artery in which it was provided with four valves.* ยง6. Dilatation of the Ventricles, (Ampliatio,)passive aneu- rism of Corvisart, consists in enlargement of the chambers of the heart, with thinning of their walls. The muscular substance is at the same time unusually soft and flaccid, sometimes of a violet colour, in other instances pale and almost yellowish. In such instances the substance of the heart must be regarded as in a state of atrophy, hypotrophy, or imperfect nutrition. The substance is at the same time lacerable. The extenuation may be so extreme that the thickest part of the ventricle does not exceed two lines, and the apex is scarcely half a line ; or the muscular substance may be so stretch- ed, attenuated, and absorbed, that nothing but a little fat covered by pericardium retains the blood. Laceration, in such circum- stances, as Burns imagined, seems not impossible ; yet neither Cor- visart nor Laennec met with any instance of this accident in conse- quence of dilatation of the left ventricle ; and in none of the record- ed instances of rupture does the accident appear to have been the result of extenuation, so much as friability or ulceration. This disease M. Bcrtin ascribes to the operation of obstacles or impediments to the circulation; for instance, ossification of the valves, and arctation of their apertures, congenital straitness of the pulmonary artery or the aorta, professions requiring painful efforts, * Account of a Case of Irregular Formation of the Heart, &c. By Theophilus Thom- son, M. D. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxv. p. 247. London, 1842.