714 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Thirdly, suppurative destruction may take place in one or more points of the costal pleura, and discharge a considerable quantity of puriform fluid through openings between the ribs, which are oc- casionally carious.* * * § When these two modes of opening are com- bined, pneumothorax and emphysema take place, f Fourthly, the inordinate accumulation of fluid in the left sac of the pleura may- be so great as to thrust the heart to the sternum, and eventually into the side of the chest, in which its pulsations are then felt.J This change I have several times witnessed in chronic pleurisy. § 2. Chronic peritoneal inflammation is distinguished by three cir- cumstances :—ls£, Purulent or sero-purulent fluid may be secreted in one or more distinct sacs, formed by the union, and secretion of effused lymph. This, which was early noticed by Morgagni, (Epist. xxxiv. 221,) is verified by J. Hunter,§ and subsequently by Baillie, Black,|| Mr Cooke, and others. 2d. Purulent fluid may be secreted by the whole inflamed mem- brane, without breach of surface. This proposition I should scarcely have thought requisite, after what has been said above, to state for- mally, did not the valuable remark of John Hunter, that “ the ca- vity of the abdomen acquires all the properties of an abscess,” ap- pear to be forgotten by Dr Black of Newry, who, in recording a case in which the u abdomen contained more than two quarts of thin purulent fluid of a turbid appearance,” seems to think it extra- ordinary that the matter was secreted by inflamed surfaces. In other respects the case is a good confirmation of the general prin- ciple now stated. I may add, that in several cases of peritonitis lasting for several weeks, which have come under my own observa- tion, I have seen many folds of small intestine connected by lymphy exudation, and a considerable quantity of genuine purulent fluid * Miscell. Curios. Dec. iii. An. v. Obs. 49. Mem. Med. Society, Vol. iii. p. 127. Kirkland, Med. Surgery, Vol. ii. p. 178. Withering’s Remarks on Dropsy, &c. Works, Vol. ii. p. 304, § 35. + Treyer, in Annals of Thomann, Vol. i. Dr Duncan, in Trans. Med.-Chir. Society, Edin. Vol. i. and Contributions to Morbid Anatomy, No. iv. Empyema and Hydro- thorax, in Med. Surg. Journal, Vol. xxviii. p. 302. £ Morgagni, Epist. xx. 6. Barry, p. 405, 406. Abercrombie, in Med.-Chir. Trans- actions. § “ Inflammation attacks the external coat of an intestine. The first stage of this inflammation produces adhesions between it and the peritonamm lining the abdominal muscles. If the inflammation does not stop at this stage, an abscess is formed in the middle of these adhesions.”—Treatise on the Blood. || Clinical and Pathological Reports, p. 133, 176.