MORBID STATES OF THE HEART.—PARTIAL ANEURISM. 1061 He maintains also that the partial aneurism of the heart com- mences always by dilatation, and ought, therefore, to be regarded as a true aneurism. Throwing aside this distinction in the meantime, it must be ad- mitted, that the point for which M. Cruveilhier contends, as the main predisposing cause of aneurism of the heart, namely the pre- vious fibrous transformation of the muscular tissue, is one which derives considerable force from the appearance of many of the ex- amples of the lesion. In the majority of these, the aneurismal sac or cyst has presented, as in the 17 th case of the essay, more or less of the fibrous structure. In the case which occurred in my o\\ n practice, this fibrous transformation was remarkably distinct, both on the side of the left ventricle, and also on that of the right* most so certainly in the latter, where it formed a firm strong pro- minent mass, convex in shape towards the right ventricle. This fibrous structure was also distinctly visible and very strong at the margin of the opening of the sac into the left ventricle. In all the cases detailed in my own memoir, the fibrous structure is remarked at the margin of the orifice of the cyst, which is described as firm, elevated, and generally whitish. The only question for consideration would appear to be, whether has this fibrous transformation taken place before the aneurismal dilatation or after its occurrence ? I am not sure that any of the facts which I have recorded, or which have come to my knowledge are capable of determining this point. . ^th regard to the other point maintained by M. Cruveilhier viz. the distinction between true or partial aneurism of the heart ^ false consecutive aneurism of the heart, it appears to me that in the present state of knowledge, it must be considered as a distinction rather in the degree and stage than in the nature and kind of the lesion. Several of these aneurismal cysts appear to commence at first by slight laceration, and then to be enlarged by dilatation Several, on the other hand, especially those near the pcx of the heart, appear to commence first by dilatation, and then to be enlarged by some degree of laceration. In many the wo processes are conjoined; and it seems difficult to say which by.M. Cruveilhier him- ’ . . °rm 0 ^10 disease which he denominates partial aneurism is earlier and less advanced than that named false con- secutive aneurism, and in which the fibrous transformation, not yet effected in the former, is far advanced or completed.