GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 320 and dense in a felon, who, to avoid public punishment, killed him- self by dashing his head against the wall of his cell. * * * § To the same head probably is to be referred a form of diminish- ed consistence, without change of texture, which is occasionally ob- served in the brains of persons in whom chronic encephalo-menin- geal congestion caused mental derangement. The brain in fatu- ous persons appears to have been early observed by Tulpius, Ker- kringius, King, and Scheide, to be soft and flaccid. This fact, which was repeated by Morgagni, was afterwards verified by John Ernest Greding of Waldheim, who, in 1771, in an elaborate de- scription of the abnormal changes found in the brains of epileptic maniacs, states, that in more than one-half (fifty-one cases) the brain was either universally or very generally, especially in its central parts, unusually soft and flaccid ; and that though this may not be a uniform cause of deranged intellect, it is a frequent ac- companiment of the state of the brain on which this depends.f In twelve cases the vault and septum were so soft, that spontaneously or by a slight touch they were reduced to thin pulp. Among thirty-seven cases of this form of cerebral disorder in- spected by Haslam, in seven the substance of the brain was soft, very soft, or doughy with abundance of red points, the usual indications of capillary injection, and effusion of serous fluid, the effect of meningeal injection.j Among the dissections of Dr Mar- shall, not more than one belongs to this head,§ (case, 6th p. 202.) This change depends on chronic injection of those capillaries of the vascular membrane (pia meninx) which are distributed through the brain. 11. Sclerenkephalia. Induration of the brain.—That the brain may acquire an unnatural degree of firmness, and perhaps of den- sity, is well established from the observations of Morgagni, Meckel, Greding, Haslam, Marshall, Serres, Lallemand, Lerminier, Pinel Jun., Bouillaud and Gaudet. Instead of the usual compressible elastic character which it presents in the sound state, it may be- * Histoire de l’Acad. Rovale des Sciences, An. 1705. -}- Melancholico-Maniacorum et Epilepticorum in Ptochotropheo Waldheimensi demortuorum sectiones tradit Joannes Ernestus Greding. Cent. ‘Ida, Apud Ludwig Adversaria, &c. Vol. ii. partem 3tiam, p. 533. X Observations on Madness and Melancholy, &c. By John Haslam, 2d edition, London, 1809. Cases 4, 10, 18, 25, 28, 30, 37. § The Morbid Anatomy of the Brain, &c. London, 1815.