GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 616 frequent local blood-letting, counter-irritation, and the most rigid regimen. After death, there was found in the small curvature, about 4 lines from the cardia, a cicatrized ulcer, the size of a 20 sols piece, with a depressed surface, the middle of which was traversed by a solid cellular band, on each side of which were two lacuna form- ed by peritonaeum. The margins were neither red nor swollen; and the rest of the stomach was sound.* d. Solirtionof the gastric tunics enfeebled by inflammation.—Besides the ulcerative perforation now mentioned, another variety has been described by Jaeger of Wirtemberg, Zeller of Tubingen, Cruveil- hier of Paris, and Dr John Gairdner of this place, as occurring in the stomach and bowels of infants generally at the breast. From the elaborate examination of this subject by the latter author, it appears that these perforations are probably not the result of pre- vious ulceration, but are effected by some solvent power of the fluids after death ; that, nevertheless, the parts so eroded and perforated appear to undergo a previous change of structure, in consequence of which they are less able to resist the solvent power, f Before I conclude this subject, I may remark, that in some in- stances the mucous follicles appear to become enlarged in conse- quence of chronic inflammation, without affection of the gastric membrane. A very good instance of this change is recorded by Haller, wbo found in the pyloric end of the stomach of a woman of 64, ten or twelve hemispherical bodies like papilla, with black or perforated summits, and cavities full of purulent matter. Though the size of these bodies was variable, the diameter of some was three lines, in others a full inch.} e. A particular cause of gastric mucous ulceration has been sup- posed to exist in certain substances belonging to the class of corro- sive poisons. That in many instances these substances induce in- flammation, ulceration, and erosion of the gastric tissues, cannot be denied; and this is true, particularly of the concentrated mine- ral acids, as is shown in the cases and experiments of lartra, Or- fila, and Brodie, the cases and experiments recorded by Kou- pelle,§ and the instances, now rather numerous, in which sulphuric * De la Membrane Muqueuse Gastro-Intestinale, &c. p. 558. Par C. Billard. + Medico-Chirurgical Transactions of Edinburgh, Vol. i. p. 311. $ Opuscula Pathologica Observat. xxvii. § Illustrations of the Effects of Morbid Poisons. By George Leith Roupell, M- D. The Plates from Original Drawings. By Andrew Melville M'Wliinnie, M. R. C. L. Part I. and II. London, 1833. Folio. 4