GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 120 and loose analogies, the statement of the latter is too hypothetical and general to be either entirely true or wholly false. Of one fact only are we certain. The blood which is conveyed into the small vessels, and the substance of the tissues and organs, is brought back by the veins. We have seen that the only origin, which is strictly susceptible of demonstration, is that of the red vein from the red artery. The point, then, to be ascertained is, whether colourless veins and absorbent veins arise from the several textures, as colourless and exhalant arteries terminate in them ? The pro- per place for the further examination of this question is the subse- quent chapter. I must not omit to mention, nevertheless, that the veins have been shown to be connected at their ramified extremities with the lymphatics. When the veins become distinct vessels, branches, and trunks, they become once more objects of sensible examination. In their course or transit from their organic to their cardiac extremities, they present various circumstances which merit attention. 1. In general, every artery is accompanied by a venous tube, which is divided in the same manner, and furnishes or receives an equal number of branches. Thus the descending aorta is accom- panied by the vena cava inferior ; the common iliac arteries by common iliac veins; the anterior iliac, femoral, and popliteal, by anterior iliac, femoral, and popliteal veins. These veins are deep- seated, and are generally named the concomitant veins, (vents co- mites vel vence satellites.) In some situations, an artery may be ac- companied, either in its trunk or in its branches, by two veins of equal size. Thus, in general, the brachial artery, and its branches the radial and ulnar, are each accompanied by two veins. The only situations in which the number of veins can be said to be ex- actly equal to that of the arteries, are in the stomach, in the intes- tinal canal, in the spleen, in the kidneys, in the testicles, and in the ovaries. 2. In the extremities and in the external regions of the trunk we find, in addition to the concomitant veins, an external layer of venous tubes immediately beneath the skin, (vence subter cutem dis- perses, Pliny.) These subcutaneous or superficial veins do not cor- respond to any artery; but, as they are chiefly destined to convey the blood from the skin and other superficial parts, they open into the deep-seated veins. Thus in the case of the basilic and cepha-