4 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. i his zeal in prosecuting the true knowledge of. minute structure would have greatly advanced this department of anatomy. Frederic Ruysch, (1638), professor of anatomy and surgery at Amsterdam, was more fortunate. Assiduously devoted during a long life to the cultivation of anatomy, and eminent for the per- fection to which he carried the art of injecting, he was enabled to obtain more correct views than his predecessors of the arrangement of minute vessels in the interior of organs, and to demonstrate peculiarities of organization, which had escaped the scrutiny of previous anatomists. Scarcely a part or texture of the human body eluded the penetration of his syringe; and his discoveries were proportionally great, (1665), His researches on the lungs, on the vascular structure of the skin, of the bones and their epi- physes, of the spleen, of the glans penis, the clitoris, (1691), and the womb, impregnated and unimpregnated, were sufficient to give him the reputation of a most able and accurate anatomist, (1701). These, however, were hut a limited part of his anatomical labours. He studied the minute structure of the brain, (1715); he demon- strated the organization of the choroid plexus; he described the state of the hair when affected with Polish plait; he proved the vascular structure of the teeth; he injected the dura mater, the pleura, the pericardium, and peritoneum; he investigated the structure of the synovial apparatus placed in the interior of the joints, and he discovered many curious particulars relating to the lacteals, the lymphatics, and the lymphatic glands. So assiduously, indeed, did Ruysch study by injection the tissues and organs of the animal body, that it is less easy to say what he did than what he neglected. We are indebted to him for many of the facts of which anatomy at the present day consists, (1731.) The labours of these ingenious and indefatigable inquirers added considerably to the stock of accurate knowledge, and tended to dif- fuse a taste for correct observation in the study of the minute struc- ture of the parts of the animal body. Not much, however, had been done for the arrangement of the materials thus collected. Though many isolated facts had been established, and several cu- rious discoveries had been made, they were not yet digested in that systematic order which renders them useful to the purposes of pa- thology. It is in the great work of Haller (1757), that we recognise the first traces of a better spirit and more philosophical views. This 3