GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 22 Gmelin, Chevreul, and Lecanu obtained from the blood stearine and elaine. The colour of the blood varies in different parts of the system. In the left auricle, ventricle, and arterial trunks generally, its co- lour is bright scarlet, a tint which it loses in the capillary vessels. In the veins, venous trunks, right auricle, right ventricle, and pul- monary artery, its colour is a dark or purple-red, or modena. As it moves from the trunk and branches through the minute divisions of the pulmonary artery, it gradually parts with this tint; and in the branches of the pulmonary veins it is found to have acquired the bright scarlet colour which it has in the left auricle, ventricle, and aorta. Hence the modena or dark-coloured blood is distin- guished as venous, or proper to the veins; and the bright red or scarlet-coloured as proper to the arteries. In the foetus, the blood contains little coagulable matter; and this principle is entirely wanting in the blood of the menstrual dis- charge. The fluids received by the blood are chyle and lymph. Chyle is derived from chyme, a gray pulpy substance, formed from the alimentary mass in the stomach and duodenum. Detached from this substance, and received by the chyliferous tubes, it is whitish and scarcely coagulable. In the mesenteric glands it becomes more coagulable, and assumes a rose colour. Lastly, in the thoracic duct, and before joining the mass of blood, it is distinctly rose-co- loured, coagulable, and globular in its particles. In the branches of the pulmonary artery it appears to become perfect blood. Lymph is a colourless, viscid, albuminous fluid, imperfectly known. Of the fluids separated from the blood, all cannot be said to be- long to the animal body. Several, for instance the perspired fluid of the skin and lungs, the fluid of the cutaneous and mucous fol- licles, and the urine, become, after secretion, foreign to the body, and require to be removed. Those belonging to the body are such as are prepared for some purpose within it, and after this are either re-absorbed, or, being decomposed, are expelled. Of the former kind, fat, serum of serous membranes, and synovia, afford examples. To the latter description belong tears, saliva, pancreatic fluid, bile, the seminal fluid of the male, and the milk of the female, all of which are the result of a distinct glandular secretion for a specific purpose, after which they are expelled from the economy. The urine, though also the result of glandular secretion, is ne- vertheless exempt from this rule, and though separated from arterial