847 ATROPHY ;—CONCRETIONS OF THE PANCREAS. have lost its characteristic lobulo-granular structure, in consequence of, or along with increased vascular distension.* § 7. Atrophy of the pancreas or diminution of its size, sometimes with, sometimes without, condensation and induration of its sub- stance, may be regarded as one of the effects of enlargement and hypertrophy of some one of the other abdominal viscera, for in- stance the stomach, the liver, spleen, or the right kidney. The pan- creas is also in general diminished in size, in chronic inflammation and ulceration of the intestines. It is not so much an effect of in- flammation, as of the opposite state of diminished supply of blood for nutrition. By some, however, it is regarded as a remote effect of inflammation, which has either been partially cured, or has pro- ceeded to suppuration, and the matter of which has been discharged. This is the most convenient place to mention, that the arteries of the pancreas have been found ossified. This takes place chiefly when the abdominal aorta and the coeliac and mesenteric arteries are affected by osteo-steatomatous deposition. The most characte- ristic case is the following. A shipmaster, aged 59, and who had been 37 years at sea, had always enjoyed good health. All at once, however, he began to suffer from headach, anorexia, squeam- ishness, thirst, a sense of burning heat, following the course of the oesophagus, and constipation. Emaciation speedily followed ; and at the end of six weeks, death. Upon inspection the pancreas was found small, shrivelled, dense, of a deep gray colour. Its excretory duct was obliterated; and all tbe arteries, viz. the small branches of the splenic, the pancreatico-duodenal, and those from the supe- rior mesenteric were ossified.f It is not improbable that the morbid condition of the arteries was in this case the cause of the atrophy. It will be seen from the subsequent head, that the pancreas mav be shrunk and rigid when the ducts are filled with calcareous mat- ter. It would be wrong to consider these two circumstances in the relation of cause and effect. But we may infer that there are two conditions or forms of atrophy of this gland; one in which it is shrunk, shrivelled, and indurated, and another in which it is small yet softened. ’ v„d,. Falle. S. 328-369. sammte Heilkuntle ▼. Band ii. Heft 5 t Lancet, Vol. ii. No. 680. 1835-36, 10th September, p. 825.