filamentous or cellular tissue. 39 existence, in not a few instances the muscles are detached fiotn the periosteum, and the periosteum from the bone. These slneds are mortified pieces of sloughs or filamentous tissue ; and coi 1 e- spond to the pieces of wet tow mentioned by Hunter and Sii E. Home, and the wads of wet chamois leather noticed by Mr James. This process is attended with much disturbance in the ciicula- tion, loss of appetite, heat, thirst, dry skin, and more or less de- rangement of the intellectual functions. Towards the close ot the disease, the pulse becomes quick, small, and sometimes intermit- ting ; the strength of the muscular system is greatly impaired ; the raving is accompanied with muttering, and starting of the tendons, and alternates with stupor; and the breathing becomes quick, panting, and laborious, or slow, languid and interrupted, and ter- minates in death. This may be regarded as the most severe form of the disease. In such circumstances its duration varies. It appears from the re- sult of Dr Duncan’s observations, that death does not take place before the sixth day, but may occur on any subsequent one to the twelfth or fifteenth. Perhaps in the average number of cases, the seventh, eighth, or ninth may be stated as the day on which the termination occurs. In milder cases it may terminate in resolution or in abscess. When the latter result takes place, the inflamma- tory action changes its character, and instead of spreading, shows a tendency to stop. Lymph is effused ; healthy purulent matter is formed ; and adhesion taking place in one or more points, the dis- ease terminates in phlegmonic suppuration and granulation. When recovery takes place after suppuration and sloughing of the cellular tissue, it is effected partly by direct adhesion taking place between the muscles, or their cellular substance, partly by the formation of new cellular tissue, similar to the new membranes formed on the serous surfaces. The former is the cause of the stiffness, immobility, and condensation of parts after this inflamma- tion has taken place. In some instances the circumscribed, or limited, and the spread- ing forms of inflammation may be combined. The latter proceeds at one part of the affected tissue; while the limited, with lymphy exudation and adhesion, takes place at another. This appears to be the variety of those tedious cases in which the disease is pro- longed for weeks, and the patient either recovers, or ultimately dies hectic.