BONE. 463 share in the process of new deposition. The reproduced bone is always a large, thick, shapeless mass, sometimes imperfect, that is with breaches or gaps in its bony walls, irregular on the surface, and in every well authenticated case three or four times the diameter of the old bone. It is in contact with, if not closely invested by inflamed and thickened periosteum, all the vessels of which and the surrounding tissues. are engaged in conveying blood and lymph to the scene of effusion and deposition. Lastly, it is in some parts soft, loose, and spongy, in others firm and solid, the former being the most recently formed, the latter the last deposited portions. Scarpa appears to have adopted the idea of the formation of bone in nekrosis from the phenomena of fractures, in which certainly the vessels of the bony fragments are instrumental in the secretion and modulation of liquid callus. It may be admitted, that in a cer- tain class of cases of what may be called fragmentary or limited nekrosis, taking place chiefly in compound fractures and gunshot wounds, the living fragments of bone may present materials for the formation of new bony matter. But this is a very different process from that which takes place in nekrosis of an entire bony shaft, in which the bone is already dead, in the midst of living parts, and consequently cannot be supposed to be the agent of living actions. Notwithstanding these objections, the hypothesis of Scarpa has been espoused more or less strongly by various authors, anatomical and surgical, who have also apparently confined their views to the phenomena of bones comminuted by gunshot wounds or com- pound fractures, for instance, Reveille, Richerand, Jourdan, and a few others. Richerand in particular,'regards the theory of Troja and David as erroneous in this respect, that it represents as a uni- form law, a phenomenon which takes place in a small number of cases only. By others again, as Boyer, Ribes, and Beclard, at- tempts have been made to reconcile the two hypotheses. The attempt seems hopeless and impracticable, unless in the circum- stances already specified, in which portions of living bone are really left to perform the duty assigned. In cases of extensive nekrosis of a cylindrical bone, it seems a contradiction in terms to say that the dead bone can reproduce a living one. In 1836, Mr Gulliver examined various points connected with this subject. He doubts the possibility of absorption of the seques- trum, and for this he has probably good reason. He undertakes to prove that tissues, at least bones, being dead, possess the power amidst living tissues of attaching, as it were, from the blood particles