LACRYMAL AND SALIVARY GLANDS—CONCRETIONS. 827 solid masses. Thus concretions are found to affect the lacrymal and salivary glands, as well as the hepatic and renal ducts. § 8. Lacrymal Concretions. Dacryolitha.—Concretions or hard bodies formed in the lacrymal gland, or its ducts, have been noticed and recorded by many authors. Schurig relates from Paul- lin the fact, that, in a young peasant, along with the tears small stones were discharged, with heat, itching, and pain.* Laclnnund relates, that in 1661, in a girl of 13, there arose a painful swelling on the left temple, from which, as well as from the angle of the eye, were discharged small stones at intervals for the space of three weeks.f Similar cases are mentioned as having occurred to d’Emery4 Schafer,§ andPlot.|| An important case is given by Walther. In a healthy young woman, from the left upper eyelid in whom, two years pre- viously a portion of chalky matter had been removed, without leav- ing any bad effect, there were formed, amidst evident marks of in- flammation, recurring from time to time, in the fold between the eye-ball and the lower eye-lid, opposite the external angle of the eye, white angular stones of the size of a pea, which, in the subse- quent course of the disease, became more numerous and larger. After some time the left eye was first delivered from the evil. But a similar formation of concretions began in the right eye at the same place. The phenomena progressively diminished, and at length ceased; yet returned after some years in a milder form. At length the patient got quite well.IT Guillie mentions that, in a young person of 15, after marks of violent inflammation, with red- ness and swelling of the eye-lids, the lower fold of the conjunctiva was filled on the 6th day with chalky deposit like fine sand; and on the 9th day there appeared at the outer angle a small co- nical-shaped body, as thick as a vetch, reddish yellow, and irregu- lar on the surface, which was loosely attached to the conjunctiva, and was easily removed by forceps.** Ur Kersten,ft who writes an elaborate paper on these concretions, I fhuH* *•*!£,„ t D. Fowilibiu, Sect. Si. C,p. 22, p. ,2. + Journal des Sfavans, 1679, 1 May, p. 66-68. - 1 § Ephemerid. Cent. iii. iv. Obs. clxxvii. p. 421. I) Natural History of Oxfordshire. London, 1677. Folio. If Graefe und Walther’s Journal, Band i. Ileft i. §. 168 ** Bibliotheque Ophthalmologique, Tome i. p. 133 dZ^c v°» * *«*« F° bL 1 • rf. ",Pr““»» Heitande. -on Dr BUSSC- 184'*- 1V- “■ v- Stllck Apnl « May, xcv. Band 4u R St. S. 26-63.