378 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. pneumogastric in harmony and relation with the external muscles of the back and lateral regions of the neck. Lastly, the hypoglossal, or twelfth pair, having mostly an anterior origin, are motiferous. They form the motiferous nerves of the muscles of the tongue. It is to be observed, nevertheless, that though this distinction in functions belongs to particular nerves, yet nerves ministering to sensation, and regulating organic or involuntary functions, and nerves ministering to motion, and regulating either voluntary mo- tions, instinctive motions, or involuntary, but associated and neces- sary motions, are often closely connected, and proceed together in the same sheath, or in close apposition to the same organ. This, which is observed in the fifth, the seventh, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh, is rendered necessary by the offices which the organs have to perform. The impulse or impression is communicated to the organ, and received by its sensiferous nerves. By these the proper sensation is transmitted, and the motiferous nerves are excited to action. This appears to be the mode in which such actions as sneezing, coughing, yawning, deglutition, and numerous other in- stinctive and associated actions are called into operation. Of the spinal nerves it is almost superfluous to speak after the explanations now given. The splanchnic or great sympathetic ap- pears to he a nerve of organic sensibility and impression, and as such regulates the circulation of the abdominal organs, and trans- mits their impressions to the central connections. The further continuance of these by its spinal connections establishes a har- monic action with the spinal marrow, always for good purposes, but often under disease producing painful and destructive effects.* This may be said to comprehend all that is accurately known 'regarding the uses of the nerves. Every other doctrine relating to sensibility, sympathy, irritability, &c. is either unfounded, not proved, or altogether imaginary and hypothetical. In the foetus the nerves are developed with remarkable perfec- tion. I cannot speak from personal observation much earlier than the sixth month, when I have found the nerves of the extremities * For further information and illustrations of the principles now stated, I refer the reader to Arnold’s Illustrations of the Nerves of the Head and Face,* and an account of the same work in the forty-third volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgica Journal, January 1835, p. 225. * Frederici Arnoldi leones Nervorum Capitis. Heidelberg®, 1834. Folio.