220 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. those at the bend of the arm; and to Cruikshank it appears to have occurred in the same situation.* It may occur, however, and probably has been seen by others elsewhere. £. Phagedenic Bubo. Seen principally in the inguinal glands in persons labouring under the operation of the syphilitic poison, or who have been subjected to repeated courses of mercurial medi- cines. The skin first becomes hard, painful, hot, and dull red, with circumscribed edge, but diffusely swelled. The transition to a dirty grayish-brown indicates that the skin has become dead; and the process of ulceration, alternating with sloughing, is esta- blished. As the skin, and successively the cellular tissue, are thrown off in this manner, one, two, or more glands come into view, somewhat swelled, and of a brownish-red colour, but equally distinct as if they had been carefully dissected. The surface of the sore is generally a deep-red brown, covered with a foul blood-co- loured serous fluid, without appearance of granulations, and with the sensation of burning or searing pain. The process of sloughing proceeds in the cellular tissue, while the gland or glands remain as so many brownish masses, with small marks of vitality, until they are detached entirely from the cellular substance, in which they are imbedded, and are thrown off dead. In effecting this object, the process of sloughing may proceed to such extremity as to affect first the superincumbent cellular coat, and next the sheath of the femoral artery, which, in such circumstances, inevitably gives way ; and the patient is suddenly destroyed by hemorrhage. An instance of this accident in a soldier of the'guards used to be mentioned by Dr Hunter.f In a case which occurred some years ago in the military hospital of the Castle, it was deemed requisite to avert the impending danger by tying the femoral artery. Sub sequent gangrene of the foot and leg, however, rendered amputa- tion indispensable ; and recovery at length took place. In more favourable circumstances, after great destruction of parts, and the expulsion of one, two, or more mortified glands, the phagedenic action stops spontaneously, granulation takes place, and the sore is gradually healed. I have described the progress and phenomena of this disease, as 1 have witnessed them in several instances which have fallen under * “ I have known the last mentioned glands (the brachial) die, and slough out in scrofula without any great inconvenience.”—The Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels, p, 132. . 'p)ie Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels, p. 122, p. 134, second edition.