350 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. From its situation I have often been inclined to think that it is a secretion from the vessels of the choroid web. Petrifaction, or osseous induration of the whole brain, has not been seen in the human subject. Instances, however, of this in the lower animals have been recorded by Duverney, Simson, Pitchell, and Renauld. /. Encysted Tumours.—Of these any of the forms may probably be found in the brain. Hitherto, however, those actually said to occur may be referred to one or other of the following heads. a. Hydatoid or vesicular tumours. It may be justly doubted whether the genuine animal hydatid, (Cysticercus cellulosus, Ru- dolplii,) has ever been found in the brain. Though stated gene- rally by Bremser, he mentions no authority ;* it is never noticed by Rudolphi ;f and seems to be denied entirely by Blainville. None of the social hydatids ( Coenuri and Echinococci) were found in that situation, till M. C. Rendtorff discovered, in 1811, a cluster of the latter sort in the right ventricle of a girl of 8, who, after re- maining hemiplegic for some months, died lethargic.! Notwithstanding this, instances of bodies described as hydatids occurring in the brain have been mentioned by Scultetus, Panaroli, Paw, Borelli, Lancisi, Wepfer, Home, Rostan, Headington, and Morrah. In the case of Scultetus, a cyst as large as a hen’s egg, not unlike a hydatid, was found in the left hemisphere^ In that of Panaroli, several whitish round bladders, containing pituitous fluid (hygroma ?) were found in the mesolobe.|| In that of Paw, a bladder containing half a pound of limpid fluid was seated over the commissure of the optic nerves.IF The case of P. Borelli was a cyst containing watery fluid, attached to the nates and infundibu- lum.** That of Lancisi is styled a hydatid as large as a pigeon’s egg, thin, yellowish, jelly-like lymph, in the posterior part of the right hemisphere.ft The case of Wepfer, which was a cyst as large as a hen’s egg, containing a turbid brownish liquor, appears to belong rather to the head of hygroma.\% Those of Home,§§ Ros- * Traite Zoologique, &c. Paris, 1824, P. 141, chap. ii. ■f Entozoorum Synopsis. Mantissa, Gen. 28, p. 546. t De Hydatidibus prresertim in cerebro repertis. § Armamentarium, Obs. 10 and 11. || Pentecoste I. Obs. 17. ^ Petri Pawii, Observat, 2. ** P. Borelli, Obs. Medico-Physica;. De Mortibus Subetaneis, Lib. i. cap. xi. 13. ++ Jlistorue Apoplecticorum. §§ Phil. Trans. 1814, p, 483.