370 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. anatomists to consider them as forming a peculiar net-work sur- rounding the vessel, and to exercise great influence on the circu- lation. (Wrisberg, Ludwig, and Haase.) It is remarkable that the structure of the nervous chords which form a plexus, has either appeared so simple as not to demand par- ticular attention, or is so obscure as to be never noticed. Have the nervous chords and threads in such situations their usual enve- lope ? Is the nervous matter in the chords quite the same as in other situations ? Is there any other means of union, save the nervous substance itself? We believe there is no doubt that every chord in a plexus is provided with its neurilema as in other places ; but this neurilema is generally thinner and more delicate; and the general neurilema seems to be wanting. Its mechanical properties of cohesion and resistance have not been examined. The view which has been given of the structure or arrangement of the nervous plexus has led Scarpa to consider them as nearly allied to ganglions. The same separation of the component threads or filaments of the nerve or nerves, the same interlacement, and the same or similar formation of new chords, appear to take place in both orders of structure. A ganglion, indeed, he conceives, is a condensed or contracted plexus; and a plexus is an expanded or unfolded ganglion. The great anatomical purpose of both appears to be simply a new arrangement or disposition of nervous branches, previous to their ultimate distribution in the tissues or organs to which they are destined. This is nothing but the expression of a fact,—the interpretation in intelligible terms of an arrangement of organized parts without reference to any supposed uses. The minute structure of the nerves has been examined by Fon- tana, Prochaska, Bauer, Ehrenberg, Valentin, Muller, Wagner, and Remak. M. Bauer found the optic nerve to consist of many bundles of very delicate fibres, connected together by means of a jelly-like, transparent, semifluid, viscid substance, easily soluble in water. These fibres consisted of globules, which are from gnnotli to3055th part of an inch in diameter, with a few at 2055th part of an inch in diameter, the latter being the size of the red globules of the blood deprived of colouring matter. The retina appeared like a conti- nuation of the bundles composing the optic nerve, consisting of the same sized globules connected into fibrous lines, and forming bun- dles radiating from the end of the nerve to the circumference of 4