FILAMENTOUS OR CELLULAR TISSUE. 43 bound. These symptoms increase until fever is established, with more considerable pain of the right iliac region and abdomen in general, and the sense of a hard firm resisting mass in the right iliac region. The swelling may terminate fatally at this time ; or it may end in suppuration, either into the interior of the caecum, or round the caecum, and into the iliac fossa, or with an outlet in the region on the surface of the belly. The disease shall be consider- ed more fully under affections of the caecum, to which it belongs. 4. Hemorrhage. Effusion of blood into the filamentous tissue independent of external violence is not common. Of spontaneous and idiopathic hemorrhage no authentic example has been record- ed. It occurs, however, in a secondary manner in land and sea scurvy, (Purpura and Scorbutus). In the former disease it is rarely to any great extent, save when the complaint has terminated fatally with large and repeated hemorrhage from the mucous mem- branes. In sea scurvy it is at once frequent and considerable. Scarcely a case of this disorder attains any height, without much effusion of blood into the subcutaneous and intermuscular filamen- tous tissue. On this effusion in general depend the hard, livid tu- mours, deep in the limbs, with which sea scurvy is attended. The cause of this hemorrhage, or rather the state of the vessels which gives rise to it, is not well known. That the blood is probably al- tered, may be inferred from the fact, that it is dark-coloured, im- perfectly coagulated and grumous, and does not separate into clot and serum ; but the capillaries of the tissue are much affected, cer- tainly overloaded, probably disorganized. Similar effusion is occasionally found in the filamentous tissue in malignant agues, remittents, especially those of tropical countries, and sometimes in the fever of temperate regions. Extravasation of blood, dark-coloured and semi-coagulated, are observed in cases of typhous fever during bad epidemics, and in broken and impaired constitutions. The patches vary from the size of a pea, or a six- penny piece, to large irregular shaped masses one or two inches square, and sometimes larger. These effusions take place in the cellular tissue beneath the skin, in the intermuscular, and some- times apparently among the muscles themselves. These it is impor- tant to distinguish from the effects of blows and falls. They are common in bad cases of typhous fever. But it is possible that they may be aggravated by pressure. 5. Induration. HEndurcissement du Tissu Cellulaire of Andry.