296 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. when fluid, and especially after coagulation, acts as a foreign body, —breaks down, softens, and disorganizes the part with which it is in contact. After some time the clot begins to change, assumes a brown or brownish-black colour, and is separated into fragments floating in a wine-lee fluid. The further dissolution of these forms a homogeneous chocolate-coloured matter, which is eventually re- moved more or less pei'fectly ;* while the part, which the extrava- sation converted into a hollow, is filled with serous fluid, and sof- tened or pulpy cerebral matter. In some cases of complete re- covery this is gradually converted, by a slow process of adhesive inflammation, into a membranous substance, harder than the sur- rounding brain, which, however, is generally softer than sound ce- rebral matter. (Lerminier, cases 1, 2.) In this manner are formed the cavernous sacs described by Wepfer and Morgagni, (Epist. iii. 7, 8, 9, lx. 2, 6,) and the cavities described by Baillie, (450, 455,) Wilson, Abernethy,f and others. The contiguous enclosing cerebral matter also undergoes pecu* liar changes, which vary with the interval between extravasation and death. The portion in immediate contact with the clot is ge- nerally dark red, wine-lee colour, or, at later periods, of a choco- late brown, and rather pulpy. The portion exterior to this is paler, and of an orange colour, but generally much penetrated by distended vessels. Exterior to this again may be in general dis- tinguished a layer of bluish-white or bluish-yellow matter, gradu- ally terminating in sound brain, but all more or less traversed by blood-vessels. In other cases, in which a longer period elapses between extravasation and death, the portion of brain enclosing the clot is pulpy, of a dun-red or orange-colour, passing to yellow, and terminating gradually in brain of natural colour and consistence. In both cases minute shreds of cerebral matter and filamentous threads may be traced in the pulpy matter and in the bloody clot, either recent or dissolved into the chocolate-coloured fluid. By some these filamentous threads are supposed to be the fine cellular tissue of the brain; but I think it impossible to doubt that they are * “ The appearance of the effused blood differs according to the duration of its ef fusion. When death ensues quickly, at the end of three or four days, for example, it is in the form of soft blackish clots. After a month or six weeks it becomes firmer, assumes a deep brown colour, and resembles the blood of aneurismal tumours. At a more remote period it becomes still more compact and of a pale red colour, bordering on ochreous yellow. Lastly, it is entirely absorbed.”—Iloclioux, p. 86. -f- Surgical Works, Vol. II. On Injuries of the Head, pp. 18,19, and 20. Lom on, 1811.