335 BRAIN. exposed to charcoal fumes, laboured, for a year before death, under acute pains oi the head, and weakness of the lower extremities, which terminated in paraplegy, without affection of the arms, finally became soporose during the day, with slight raving at night, and with lucid intervals, and died. The cerebellum was hard to the knife. In- stead of the usual appearance of ramified arrangement, which had disappeared, was one of parallel white streaks, firm, (scirrhosa,,) of a uniform colour, approaching to pale carnation ; and when minutely examinedappearing to consist of roundish atoms, mutually aggregated, without membrane or blood-vessel. This change, which affect- ed the whole left hemisphere, encroached a little only on the right. La Peyronie, Memoires de PAcademie Royale des Sciences, 1741. P. 208, 4to, 283, 12mo.—A man of 30, who for ten years passed for a melancholy hypochondriac, complained during the three last months of life of weight and pains of the head to- wards the occipital region and neck ; had convulsions about half an hour in all the I members ; and two days after perished in a fresh attack, lasting only a quarter of an hour. Attached to the fourth ventricle was a hard tumour as large as a hen’s egg, occupying the place of the cerebellum, which was reduced to a glairy membrane as thin as a line, investing the tumour. This tumour, which compressed the tubercula quadrigemina, appears to have been attached to the choroid plexus of the fourth ven- tricle, and probably grew from it originally. Brisseau mentions a hard tumour, as large as a pigeon’s egg, in the middle of the ce- rebellum, producing palsy.—Obs. iii. p. 27. From this list, which contains, if not the whole, at least the most authentic cases of this form of cerebral tumour, it may be inferred, that it consists in a portion of brain becoming unusually hard, as- suming a white or yellow white tint, and in losing much of its ap- pearance of organization, especially fibrous structure and vascular ramification. The hardness of these tumours varies from that of granular cheesy matter to firm indurated albumen. Of some the structure is said to be fibrous; but in such cases the fibrosity of sound cerebral substance is not meant. In the presence of a cap- sule or a vascular spherical shell there is some variation, which seems to depend on the stage of growth which the tumour has at- tained. If recent, it is generally surrounded by such a vascular cyst. If of long standing, it is generally surrounded with a layer of softened brain, the result of the vascular irritation established in the confines of of the tumour. & Adenoid or flesh-like tumour. (Adenoidea.) To the second head may be referred a sort of tumour which has been described sometimes under the vague name of scirrhus ; sometimes under that of scrofulous tumour ; but which cannot be admitted to possess un- equivocal characters of either. It is generally described as similar to a mass of flesh, or an enlarged absorbent gland. Its colour is light pink or pale flesh-colour; its firmness is considerable; and in some instances it is compared to the kidney. To this head be- long the following cases :—