590 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. during the abode of the body in the bronchi, and though enduring from the space of from six to seven weeks, as in the cases of Bor- sieri, Dr Donaldson, and Dr J. Scott, to that of several months, as in the case by Dr Lettsom, that of Dr Nooth, and the case by Mr Howship, or for years, as in those by Desault, Louis, Sue, and Holman, in general rapidly subided as soon as the foreign body was ejected. 7. In two cases only, that by M. Sue, and the one which occurred to myself, did partial and temporary recovery take place, before the ejection of the foreign body. 8. In certain cases in which the mechanical configuration of the body is unfavourable for detachment and expulsion, the bronchitic symptoms are liable to be extended to the lung, in which suppura- tion is caused, and to the pleura, in which effusion of lymph and purulent matter is induced. As the case which occurred within my own experience has not yet been published, and as its progress and termination illustrate well the usual characters of cases of this class, I subjoin a short account of it. Master L. M., an interesting and apparently healthy boy of about five years of age, had suffered occasionally from cough during winter. In April 1843 he had measles, and made a very favourable recovery. Soon after he was attacked by cough of extreme violence. For these symptoms remedies were judiciously employed by Dr Watson Wemyss. The cough nevertheless proceeded and became daily more urgent and distressing ; expectoration, at first scanty, was attended with the excretion of dense puriform mucus, occasionally slightly streaked with blood; fever was added and be- came constant; and some loss of flesh as well as of strength had taken place. In May 1843 I was requested to see the boy. I found the res- piration from 32 to 36 in the minute, with little or no motion of the upper part of the right side of the chest, and manifest dulness on percussion all over the subclavicular, pectoral, and scapular re- gions of the right side. Air did not during the motions of inspira- tion enter the right side of the lungs freely ; and seemed to be stopped and thrown back when the attempt to inspire was made. The voice was a little resonant over the right mammary region; and the beats of the heart were heard as strongly, clearly, and dis- tinctly as if the heart was beating under the ear. Occasionally