GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 150 and it is so in diffuse inflammation of the filamentous tissue. In circumscribed inflammation in the filamentous tissue, in inflamma- tion of the skin, and occasionally in inflammation of the serous mem- branes, it is preceded by exudation of coagulable lymph, and is either concurrent or successive to it. Suppuration is represented by Hunter as always preparatory to granulation. This, however, must be understood to apply to sup- puration of cellular tissue, and those textures of which it makes part. In mucous and serous membranes suppuration may, and al- most invariably does, take place without granulation. I shall af- terwards have occasion to mention another sort of purulent collec- tions, in which granulation never occurs. Suppuration varies according to the nature of the inflammatory process which it succeeds, and according to the texture in which it takes place. As inflammation varies according to the nature of the texture in which it takes place, so its effects are different in the different or- ganic textures. The purulent matter formed "on the skin differs from that which flows from an abscess of the cellular tissue. That secreted by mucous membranes is different from either; and even the purulent fluid of serous membranes possesses certain charac- ters by which a careful observer may distinguish it from the same fluid in other situations. The suppurating process may be varied according to the nature of the inflammation by which it is preceded. A sound principle laid down by John Hunter was to regard every form of suppura- tion as the result of inflammation. From this, however, he depart- ed in his views of the nature of suppurations of lymphatic glands, of diseased joints, of lumbar abscesses, and of the cold or chronic abscess in general. * It is easy to show, that, with the single ex- • Many indolent tumours, slow swellings in the joints, swellings of the lymphatic glands, tubercles in the lungs, and swellings in many parts of the body, are diseased thickenings, without visible inflammation. And the contents of some kinds of encyst- ed tumour ; the matter of many scrofulous suppurations, as in lymphatic glands ; the suppuration of many joints, viz. those scrofulous suppurations in the joints of the foot and hand, in the knee, called white swellings ; in the joint of the thigh, commonly called hip-cases ; in the loins, called lumbar abscesses ; the discharge of the above- mentioned tubercles in the lungs, as well as in many other parts of the body, are all matter formed without any previous visible inflammation, and are therefore in this one respect all very similar to one another. They come on insensibly, the first symp- tom being commonly the swellings, in consequence of the thickening, which is not the case with inflammation ; for there the sensation is the first symptom.”—Treatise, Chap, iv. IV. p. 391.