GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 600 in some severe and fatal cases I have traced the capillary injection along the gastro-enteric division, and in the genito-urinary from the neck of the bladder to the pelvis of the kidney. This general affection of the mucous system explains the fatality as well as many of the symptoms of scarlet fever. Inflammation of the tracheo- bronchial membrane is an occasional consequence of inhaling acci- dentally certain of the noxious gases. Redness and punctular injection of the tracheo-bronchial mem- brane, with more or less secretion of viscid mucus, was seen in hydrophobic subjects by Beddoes, Babington, Oldknow, Rush, Sat- terley, Brandreth, and Trolliet, the last of whom labours to prove that the rabid poison affects particularly this membrane. Much of this effect is doubtless to be ascribed to the violence of the abnormal motions of the respiratory muscles; and it is still undetermined how far the appearances now mentioned are primary and essential, or secondary and accessary. § 7. Obliteration and Arctation of the Bronchial Tubes.—From the operation of various causes at present not well understood, the bron- chial tubes are liable to be narrowed or contracted, and in certain instances their canal may be entirely closed and obliterated. Arc- tation or narrowing of the bronchial tubes has been already men- tioned as one of the effects of bronchial inflammation, recurring re- peatedly, and becoming at length chronic. In cases of this kind, these walls forming the tube are distinctly thickened by effusion either of blood or lymph, or both, into the submucous tissue; and the capacity of the tube is proportionally diminished. In other in- stances the presence of indurated or hemorrhagic portions of lung round small bronchial tubes produce the same diminution in their normal dimensions Of obliteration, M. Reynaud, who has studied this lesion, has observed four forms. In the first kind complete coalescence of the walls of a bron- chial tube takes place without foreign matter contained in their in- terior, and without any cause of external compression. The simplest and most elementary degree of this obliteration of the bronchi consists in closure or obliteration of the terminal end of one tube or more. This sort of obliteration, to which may be referred several lesions of the lungs, takes place both generally over a space of lung more or less extensive, and locally in one or more bronchial tubes. In