10 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. All the substances of this latter order consist of. a peculiar matter, by which they are distinguished, and more or fewer of the general tissues. As the structure and properties of the same elementary tissue are nearly the same in whatever region of the body it is found, or undergo only such modifications as its peculiar use or local con- nections render requisite, a just idea of the structure of the human body suggests the propriety of considering the extent, disposition, structure, and most obvious properties, mechanical and vital, of each tissue by itself. The examination of these circumstances con- stitutes the subject of his General Anatomy, a work which, in ori - ginality of plan, and general excellence of performance, notwith- standing occasional defects and errors, has not yet been surpassed. The arrangement, however, of Bichat has been found incorrect or inconvenient; and various alterations or modifications of it have been proposed by subsequent authors. The first which we shall notice is that proposed by Dupuytren and Richerand, which has been generally esteemed in France as more correct and compre- hensive. It may be exhibited in the following tabular form :— 1. Cellular. 2. Vascular, 3. Nervous, 4. Osseous. 5. Fibrous, 6. Muscular, 7. Erectile. 8. Mucous. 9. Serous. 10. Horny or Epidermal, 11. Parenchymatous, In this enumeration several important differences from that of Bichat will be recognized. It presents altogether nineteen sepa- rate tissues, of which five are so decidedly peculiar, that they do not admit of being associated with any similar, and consequently form distinct systems by themselves; while the other fourteen are referred to the general heads of vascular, nervous, fibrous, muscu- lar, horny, or parenchymatous systems. The result of this ar- rangement is to diminish the number of organic systems from ( Arterial. < Venous. ( Lymphatic, j Cerebral. ( Gangliar. ( Fibrous. < Fibro cartilaginous. ( Dermoid. i Voluntary. (Involuntary. ( Pilous. | Epidermal, i Parenchymatous. j Glandular.