848 GENERAL ANT) PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. § 8. Concretions.—Concretions are said by Baillie^who had known only one example, to be a rare lesion. Yet they have been observed in the pancreas or its ducts by several. Instances are given by Van der Wiel, Panaroli, Matani, Ten Rhyne, Eller, Sandifort, Portal, Cowley, and lastly by Dr Arthur Wilson and Dr Adam Schupmann. Dr Wilson found the pancreatic ducts in a man of 41, universally filled with compact white earthy matter, which, examined chemically, was found to contain almost pure carbonate of lime on a nucleus of animal matter. The pancreas itself was hard and shrunk, in short atrophied.* Dr Schupmann found in the main duct of the tail of the pancreas, in a man of 57, a concre- tion one inch and six lines long, weighing three drachms and one scruple. In the lateral ducts were two smaller concretions. These consisted of carbonate of lime, with animal mucus, and traces of phosphoric acid.f This fact as to chemical constitution corresponds with the result of other analyses. § 9. Heterologous Growths, a. Scirrhtjs.—Of these the most common in the pancreas, if we can trust the statements of authors, is indubitably scirrhus, or the common fibro-cartilaginous cancer. An immense number of instances under this denomination are recorded by authors. But when we consider these cases, we find no details as to the facts, on which they were referred to that head ; and all that we learn is, that either the pancreas is said to be affected with scirrhus, on the testimony of the observer,—or it is stated that the gland is very hard. It is impossible, therefore, to avail ourselves of the cases record- ed by old observers in this matter; and it seems to me doubtful whether we can ascend to a more remote period than the last twelve or thirteen years for evidence as to the pancreas being affected with scirrhus. From various cases recorded by Mondiere, Holscher, Ritter, Battersby, and other authors, excluding those cases which are doubt- ful or referable to the head of induration, I think the following inferences may be established. Scirrhus does not very frequently attack the pancreas primarily. Much more frequently it appears rather to extend from the stomach * An account of a Case of Extensive Disease of the Pancreas. By James Arthur Wilson, M. D., &c. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxv. p. 42. London, 1842. -f- C. W. Hufeland’s Journal. 1841, April, xcii. Bd.