84 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. brane is folded somewhat so as to form a prominent or elevated point, the disposition of which varies according to the angle of di- varication. Is/, When this is rectangular, the prominence of the inner membrane is circular, and is equally distinct all round. 2d, When the angle is obtuse, as in the mesenteric artery, the promi- nence is distinct, and resembles a semicircular ridge, between the continuation of the trunk and the branch given off, but indistinct on the opposite side where the angle is obtuse. 3c/, If the angle is acute, and that formed by the branch with the continuation of the trunk is obtuse, the beginning of the artery presents an oblique circle, the elevated half of which is near the heart, the other more remote. The arrangement of the fibres of the proper tissue is described by Ludwig from the divarication of the iliac arteries, and may be seen in any part of the arterial system where the vessels are large. The circular fibres separating form on each side a half ring, from which is produced a complete ring which incloses The smaller rings formed by the circular fibres of the vessel given off. These cir- cular fibres proceed to the prominence of the internal membrane already described, and are arranged round it much in the same manner, in which those of the large vessels surround its inner mem- brane. In this, however, no continuity between the rings of the large vessel and those of the small one can be recognized. The latter are inserted as it were into the former, and they are con- nected by the continuity of the inner membrane only. In observing the course or transit of arterial tubes, the principal point deserving notice is the sheltered situation which they gene- rally occupy, their tortuous course, and their mutual communica- tions. In the extremities they are always found towards the inte- rior or least exposed part of the limb, generally deep between muscles, aud sometimes lying along bones. When they are mi- nutely subdivided, they enter into the interior of organs, without, however, sinking at once into their intimate substance. In the muscles, they are lodged between the fibres; in the brain, in the convolutions ; in glands, between their component lobes. In sucli situations they are generally observed to be more or less tortuous in the course which they follow. On the reasons of this, much dif- ference of opinion still prevails. (Bichat and Magendie.) In the course of the arteries, no circumstance is of greater mo- 4