GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 624 (aphtha), which may terminate in the formation of abraded spots or minute ulcers. Excoriation and abrasion is mentioned by va- rious authors; but I think none of them distinguish between this and ulceration, of which I regard it as the incipient stage. Abra- sion consists, properly speaking, in the removal of epidermis; but as the existence of this in the gastro-enteric membrane is proble- matical, it may be doubted whether there is other abrasion than what I now admit. These abraded spots or minute ulcers appear to me to be the apices of the isolated follicles proceeding to ulce- ration. 6. In certain forms of intestinal inflammation, the morbid pro- cess appears in the shape of spheroidal or conoidal circumscribed eminences, which are red, fungous, and irregular, and form con- spicuous prominences of the mucous membrane. These bodies, which thus resemble pustules, and are surrounded by a red hoop (areola), consist in inflammation of the isolated mucous follicles of Peyer, as represented by MM. Bretonneau and Trousseau, and many subsequent observers. They are often much elevated above the adjoining mucous membrane, not unlike broad circular mushrooms, and are then sometimes named fungi. There is no doubt, never- theless, that they consist, as above described, of the thickened folli- cular cellular tissue, with morbid secretions in the apex, and they are tinged with the colouring matter of the excrement. Accord- ing to the former of these observers especially, this follicular in- flammation, passing occasionally to ulceration, is a most frequent form of intestinal disease not only primary, but occurring in the course of fevers. Its most constant and frequent locality is the 3, 6, or 10 last inches of the ileum, where the agminated patches are largest, and a long space of the ileum consists of agminated follicles without interruption; and when it affects the colon it is near the ileo-ccecal valve, being on both sides of this point much more confluent than at greater distances. This form of intestinal inflammation M. Bretonneau denominates dothinenteria (Mm pus- tula, and evrsgov intestinum.)* Any one of these forms of morbid condition may produce all the phenomena of diarrhoea or even dysentery. The most uniform and remarkable effect, however, is after the first discharges of feculent matter to cause abundant excretion of viscid mucous matter, which, though fluid when discharged, undergoes a species of coagulation * Archives Generales, Tome x. 1826. P. 67 and 169.