GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 834 matter ; and Blancard records a similar history ;f and Lieutaud mentions instances which had occurred to various observers.} Bonz describes in a man of thirty-eight, an abscess in the right extremity of the pancreas, the purulent matter of which implicated the sto- mach and the liver, and established a communication between the liver and the abdomen.ยง Gautier states that, in the body of a woman who had been afflicted with long-continued carclialgia, he saw an abscess of the pancreas which opened into the posterior wall of the stomach. || Portal states that he found the pancreas in a state of complete suppuration in a person who, after having expe- rienced violent paroxysms of gout in the feet, upon their disap- pearance had two or three fits of vomiting, followed by syncope and death.lF Baillie informs us, that he only once met with an ab- scess in the pancreas in the case of a young man of little beyond the age of twenty, and in whom the gland was enlarged in size, and contained a good deal of thin purulent fluid without peculiar characters, unattended by fixed pain in the region of the gland, but with a good deal of pain in different, parts of the belly.** Dr Haygarth records the case of a gentleman who laboured un- der jaundice, bilious vomiting, and disordered urinary secretion with epigastric pain and swelling, and at length the discharge of blood and purulent matter from the intestines. After three months death took place. The pancreas was found greatly enlarged, oc- cupying the site of the tumour felt during life in the epigastric re- gion. The common biliary duct was obliterated where the pres- sure had been greatest. The gall-bladder was full and the cystic duct pervious. The substance of the pancreas was indurated, and when divided it contained a considerable abscess.ff In cases of this nature the suppuration may be either limited and partial, or extensive and destroying the greater part or the whole of the gland. The matter is usually of a gray-white colour, * Centuria ii. Hist, xxxix. Tom. i. j>. 333. Ilafniai, 1654-1657. f Anatom. Pract. Cent. ii. Obs. lv. p. 271. + Hist. Anatom. Med. Tom. i. Obs. 1046 and 1060. ยง Nov. Acta. N. C. T. viii. p. 51. || J. L. Gautier de Irritabilitatis Notione, Natura, et Morbis. Halte, 1793, ยง 13, p. 129. Anatomie Medicale, Tom. v. p. 352. Paris, 1803. ** Morbid Anatomy in Works by Wardrop, Vol. ii. p. 238 and 240. London, 1825. ft Two Cases of Inflammation and Enlargement of the Pancreas, &c. Transac- tions of Association, Vol. II. p. 132. Dublin, 1818.