719 SEROUS MEMBRANE.—PUERPERAL PERITONITIS. The morbid products and changes which take place under these circumstances, prove at once the destructive effects of the disease, and the great efforts made by the system to counteract them. Thus in one instance, in which the disease had been proceeding for three weeks, the patient was brought to the hospital with the symptoms still present, though in a milder form. Pain was much abated though not gone; swelling and tension were likewise di- minished. But habitual fever was present; and in the hypogastric region, on the left side of the pubes, was a swelling, painful, elastic, pointing, soft, and evidently containing some fluid. In the course of a few days, a spontaneous opening took place, and much puru- lent matter was discharged, apparently with relief to the symptoms. The discharge continued, however, and the hectic symptoms and wasting did not subside. Notwithstanding all means calculated to abate the discharge and promote adhesion, the former continued, and in the course of about four wTeeks more the patient expired. It was then found that around the left ovary and Fallopian tube had been deposited a great quantity of lymph which connected these parts to the muscular peritonaeum of the left pubo-inguinal region, and formed connections also with the fundus uteri; that within this mass of lymph had been contained a quantity of puru- lent matter ; that the abscess which was found in the left pubic re- gion at admission bad communicated with this purulent cyst; that the ulcerated opening which had been formed through this abscess in the left pubal region still communicated with the interior of this cyst; and that the latter extended downwards a little on the left angle and side of the uterus. The left ovary was enlarged, and contained various purulent collections of small size. The left Fal- lopian tube contained purulent matter. Lymph and purulent (matter were deposited, though less abundantly, in the fundus uteri, in the angle between the uterus and rectum, in that between the uterus and bladder, and on the right side of the uterus. In a similar case which occurred to Dr Lee the ovary was con- verted into a large purulent cyst, which had, by coagulable lymph, formed adhesions with the abdominal parietes, and discharged its contents through an ulcerated opening. This mode of involving the ovaries and Fallopian tubes in lymph containing purulent matter and then forming adhesions with other contiguous parts, as the muscular or the pelvic peritonaeum, or the rectum, is by no means uncommon in that class of cases in