GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 954 flamination, with inflammatory globules and purulent matter, is as- sociated with fatty infiltration or steatosis. The tubuli, especially those of the cortical substance, are filled with fat globules large and small. These distend the tubuli, the convolutions of which form the granulations, and afterwards appear more in the medullary (straight tubular) substance. At length the fat globules are ef- fused between the tubuli, and form masses of 10, 15, or more fat- globules, which are occasionally enclosed within a membrane. The Malpighian bodies and the capillary vessels are at first filled with blood; but in the further progress of the disease they are bloodless and pale. The vessels of the medullary substance undergo a like change, though to a smaller degree. Not unfrequently the membrane of the tubuli entirely disappears. The fat globules ob- serve in their mode of deposition at first the direction of these tu- buli; afterwards this is lost, and a confused mass of fat-globules takes their place. In rare instances the fat-globules are deposited not at first in the tubuli, but in the blood-vessels and Malpighian bodies. In the second form, in which the kidneys are red-brown in their cortical as well as in their medullary substance, and in which, in con- sequence of a reddish striated arrangement of the medullary, the two portions can scarcely be distinguished. The renal substance is recognized as a reddish, soft, almost soluble, jelly-like matter, in which only the cellular frame-work with wide meshes appears as a separate solid element; no trace of tubules or blood-vessels is to be found either in the cortical or medullary matter; and fat globules, scattered among tubules and empty colourless Malpig- hian bodies, lie in the residual cellular texture of the glands. In the third form, in which the outline of the kidneys remains unchanged or diminished, and their outer surface and the section of the cortical substance is occupied with prominent pisiform gra- nulations, giving the glands a rough aspect and hardish appear- ance ; sometimes inflammatory globules are found with fat-globules; yet these are always in smaller proportion ; the granulations con- tain many urinary tubules dilated by a yellowish granular mass and fat-globules, which are also deposited between the tubules. In short, the fat globules may be deposited within the tubules, without them, and between them, and without or around the Mal- pighian bodies.* According to Vogel, the cortical substance in one form of the * Atlas dcr Pathologist-hen Anatomic. Stearosc der Niere, Taf. 3.