INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. 857 temperate climates, this disease is undoubtedly milder, slower, and less violent than in countries where the atmospheric heat is exces- sive, yet instances are not wanting in which the disease appears .with distinct symptoms, runs a rapid course, and terminates in more or less extensive suppuration. It is true that the distinction, ac- cording to duration or severity of symptoms, is liable to be vague and undefined; but it is the only one which is pretty obvious, and which may be useful in diagnosis. 4. Lastly, both in temperate and hot climates one form of inflammation of the liver consists in a slow and gradual enlargement of the gland, which appears to de- pend on chronic congestion, if not inflammation, without tending to suppuration, but mere hardening. Fi om these facts, it may be inferred that hepatic inflammation is of two kinds, suppurative and unsuppurative; that the former, which is analogous with the phlegmonous inflammation of Cullen Smyth, and others of the same school, may be acute or chronic,5 severe m character, and rapid in progress, or moderate in action, and slow in progress; that the latter is always chronic, unless, when under certain circumstances, it may suddenly pass into the acute form ; and that, though all forms of the disease mav occur V temPerate countries, yet warm or tropical regions are the situa- ions most common for the several forms of hepatic inflammation, enumerate, according to these principles, the following varieties. A. Acute suppurative; B. Chronic suppurative; C. Acute con- gestive or enlarging; D. Chronic congestive or indurating. T i n! i firSt tHe beSt examPles are afforded in the cases of Dr John Clark, occurring in the East Indies, Dr James Clark oc- curring m Dominica those of Sir G. Ballingall, Mr Annesley,’ and Island O ‘ I f3St ‘'ieS’ a"d th0Se °f Mr MiU'shal1 ^ the Island of Ceylon. Its most common symptoms are more or less pam in the right hypochondriac or epigastric region, tenderness in ome part ol the side, difficulty or pain in lying on the right some t nes on the left side, sickness, vomiting, heat, thirst, quick stroim jl pulse, and constipation, with scanty high-coloured urine. The thcue is merely an undefined seni thC ** towards X'rr^r4tin •ztzzxstxs occasionally no ease is procured unless when the patient