690 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the inner surface of the proper capsule, it may be traced from the angle at which this capsule adheres to the large arteries and veins, over the auricles, and finally, over the outer surface of the ventricles to the apex of the heart. In this whole course, it preserves the characters of a thin trans- parent membrane, with a free surface and an attached one. The free surface is perfectly smooth, glistening, and moistened with a watery fluid. The attached surface adheres, on the one hand, to the inner surface of the capsule, and on the other, to the outer surface of the heart, by means of fine filamentous tissue. Injection shows that the pericardium consists chiefly of minute arteries and veins. The substance of the capsular part is probably a modification of the white fibrous system; but it requires to be more carefully examined. No nerves have been traced into any part of this membrane, nor is it quite certain that it contains lym- phatics. § 3. The cerebral membranes are not uniform in nature, and can- not be conveniently referred to any head save that of compound membranes. The,dura mater is fibrous; the pia mater is supposed to he celluloso-vascular; and Bichat has laboured to demonstrate that the arachnoid is a serous membrane,—a view which is adopted by Meckel and Beelard, but rejected by Gordon. By configuration and disposition, I believe it is more easily referable to this than to any other class ; and I therefore introduce its anatomical history in this place. The brain has been said to be surrounded by three membranous envelopes, the hard membrane (meninx dura, dura mater), the web- like membrane (tunica arachnoidea), and the soft or thin membrane (meninx tenuis, pia mater.') There is perhaps no great or just ob- jection to this arrangement, which has been adopted by almost all writers. But it simplifies the subject, without impairing the truth of what is observed, to refer them to two only; one of which, the hard membrane (meninx dura, aWK^ri, dura mater), is com- mon to the brain with the inner surface of the skull; the other, the thin membrane (meninx tenuis, Xevrri, pia mater), is pro- per to the brain only. They may be distinguished, therefore, by the terms common membrane of the brain and proper membrane of the brain. The arachnoid, again, is a pellucid web common to the two cerebral membranes. The first of these, the common or hard cerebral membrane (me- 3