768 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. kingdom. Yet of all glands it is a common character, that from the more full evolution of an excreting duct, they increase, in pro- portion as the canals terminated by closed ends are increased. The hypothesis of Malpighi, accordingly, on the structure of the glands, makes a nearer approach to the truth than that of other anato- mists ; and its correctness is confirmed beyond doubt, in all the forms of glands. Malpighi, however, was little acquainted with the elementary forms of glands, which he represented in all cases to be follicles and acini. The objects which Malpighi considered to he follicles in the vis- cera, were bodies consisting of masses of much smaller particles, in which terminate the final twigs of the efferent ducts. Then, besides follicles, the variety of forms of closed sacs in which the se- creting canals terminate is great; for they are either utriculi, or elongated tubular-shaped intestinida, or pinnatifid and paniculate canals ending in closed sacs, or canals everywhere equal in diame- ter, very long, serpentine, and not branched. This point, however, in which is placed the force of the hypothesis of Malpighi, is certain, that the small twigs of the efferent and secreting ducts are closed at their blind or shut ends in the cellular tissue of the glands. This is the case with the mamma of the mammalia, the salivary glands in various classes of animals, the pyloric appendages, and the parenchymatous pancreas of fishes, the biliferous ducts of the liver, the tubuli of the kidney, and the testicles. IV. Acini, considered as glandular grains or hypothetical balls of blood-vessels, from which secreting vessels are supposed to pro- ceed, are fictitious. There is no immediate and continuous pas- sage of blood-vessels into efferent vessels either in acini or any- where else. The system of secreting vessels is peculiar, distinct from the blood-vessels, terminating in closed extremities in all forms of glands. V. Acini, therefore, are merely closed ends of secreting canals, or a branchy group of the same parts, that is vesicles, which may be perfectly filled with mercury, and in some glands inflated. Truly solid granules are seen only in the testes of a few fishes, the testes of which, without excretory duct, send granules into the abdominal cavity, from which they are conveyed by a proper orifice in the ab- don.cn. VI. The term acinos has been employed in different senses, at