GENERAL AN1) PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 664 ing vascular congestion of the stomach; from the intestinal during the congestion of dysentery; and from that of the rectum during the vascular state attendant on hemorrhois. In these circumstances, the blood, whether pure or mingled, as it often is with mucous, mu- co-purulent or puriform fluid, oozes from the mucous membranes without destruction of tissue, or rupture of vessels, or, in the lan- guage of the physiologist, is exhaled. “ I have often opened,” says Bichat, “ persons who have died during hemorrhage, and have ex- amined the bronchial, gastric, intestinal, and uterine surfaces, yet have not perceived the slightest trace of erosion, notwithstanding the precaution of washing them with care, allowing them to mace- rate, and afterwards submitting them to examination by means of a lens.”* In this manner, therefore, are to be explained those slight hemorrhages which take place in pulmonary catarrh (hcemop- toe), about the termination of peripneumony, and in young females after the accidental suppression of the menstrual discharge. From these the more copious and irresistible hemorrhages from mucous surfaces differ chiefly in a previous serious lesion of the mu- cous or submucous tissue. This lesion consists in vascular injec- tion more or less extensive of the mucous corion, and injection oc- casionally very complete, and amounting to extravasation, of the submucous tissue, which is thus rendered red-brown, hard, and void of its natural elasticity. Of the former instances are seen in the gastro-enteric mucous membrane during hcematemesis, melcena, and bloody flux; and the latter may be observed in the lungs du- ring hcemoptysis, and in the rectum in hcemorrhois. These princi- ples are so well established by numerous facts, that it is unneces- sary to strengthen them by any elaborate induction. I shall mere- ly adduce the phenomena of a few of the hemorrhagic diseases in illustration of the general doctrine that hemorrhage is an exhala- tion from parts, the capillaries of which are previously inordinately distended. § 1. The Gastro-enteric Membrane. Hcematemesis and Melcena. —On the pathology of this disorder, so much misunderstood by the ancients, it is unnecessary to dwell. Correct views were first given by Hoffmann, who, from the fact of finding in dead bodies the me- senteric vessels and those of the ileum much distended with black blood, and the stomach filled with the same, taught that the bloody discharge, whether from the upper or the lower end of the canal, proceeds not immediately from the vessels of the stomach, or from * Anatomic Generate, Tome i. p. SO'.'t, 56,1).