ENKEPHALOMA OF THE LUNGS, 1039 vary in size according to the duration of the disease, from the bulk of a gooseberry or a filbert to that of small pippins. Most com- monly several masses are found united in one irregular tumour; or they form a chain of tumours extending through the posterior me- diastinum along the bronchial tubes. They are gray or gray-white, moderately firm, and present the usual characters of enkephaloma. The presence of these bodies produces a peculiar form of breath- lessness with orthopnoea ; at first recurring in fits, afterwards con- stant, and causing a hissing, wheezing, roaring noise over the site of the bronchial tubes, with crowing inspiration. In the second form, the disease affects the lungs in the chest, commencing either in the pleura, or in the substance of the lungs. The enkephaloid deposit may appear either in the encysted or the unencysted form. But in whichever way it appears, it rapidly oc- cupies the whole interior of the chest, pushing the lung away from the ribs towards the mediastinum. After some time it occupies the whole of the interior of the chest with one continuous, yet lobulated mass of enkephaloid deposit. The presence of this may be known dining life by the complete dillness emitted by the chest on per- cussion, and the total absence of respiratory murmur, with great breathlessness and debility. After death, which follows quickly, the demithorax is found oc- cupied with this enkephaloid mass, and the lung compressed into a very small space at the upper part of the thorax and the mediastinum, is scarcely to be recognized. The tumour presents the usual charac- ters of enkephaloma. Some parts are soft, pulpy, and semifluid, like brain, or the brain of the foetus; others are firm and consist- ent like cream-cheese ; others are a mixture of soft gray-coloured cerebriform matter with blood and blood-vessels. In the third mode of approach, the enkephaloid matter appears first in the liver, and after occupying the greater part of that Mand it proceeds to affect the diaphragmatic peritoneum, the diaphragm itself, the pleura, and the lower lobe of the right luno-. Through this the enkephaloid deposit extends gradually until it occupies the middle lobe and the lower part of the upper lobe. In this case it 18 not easy to say whether the tumour displaces the lung, or the enkephaloid matter is infiltrated into the pulmonary substance, as it is in that of the liver. In the instances in which I have observed this mode of occupation, the new growth seemed to advance by sue cessive steps from one texture to another, and the lungs appeared" to be occupied from their proximity to the organs first attacked