946 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. but totally void of any trace of cortical or tubular portions. This constitutes what some have named Atrophy of the kidney, which, doubtless, is the effect of suppurative destruction, followed by con- traction of the remaining parts. Renal inflammation must be distinguished from the symptoms produced by a calculus in the ureter, from lumbago, from psoitis and lumbar abscess, from peritonitis, intestinal inflammation, colic, granular disease of the kidneys, and from spinal irritation and in- flammation, and disease of the spine generally. § 10. Granular Disease—Steatosis—Stearosis of Gluge. This consists in a change in the structure of the kidney, especially its cortical or secreting portion, in which it is penetrated with gray- ish, whitish, yellowish, or fawn-coloured adipose matter, in the form of minute granules; and in which, at the same time, the density of the urine is diminished, and the urine contains less urea than it ought, and more or less albumen or serum, the presence of which may be shown by the application of heat, or the addition of any of the acids or the metallic salts. The texture of the kidney, especially its cortical portion, is liable to become changed in various modes, and it presents in the different stages of each different appearances. It is rare to observe kidneys in the first stage of this disease in any of its forms, as it is not at that period by itself fatal; and it may be doubted whether it has been seen in the incipient stage. The following varieties, however, may be regarded as the most usual. 1. The kidney may be of a very dark-red, or brown colour, much loaded with blood, and its vessels very much enlarged. The tubu- lar is always of a darker colour than the cortical part; but the latter is in this case extremely dark-coloured. When it is divided by a longitudinal incision, the surface of the section is altogether much darker than natural, being a deep chocolate brown, while the cortical portion appears, though darker than natural, yet lighter coloured than the tubular, and presents the aspect of a brownish red mass, surrounding and enclosing dark-brown, or amber-brown coloured tubular cones. The outer surface of the gland, stripped of its tunic, is also very dark-coloured, reddish brown, inclining to chocolate red, is less smooth than natural, and may even be a little rough and irregular, presenting small depressions containing blood- vessels in clusters, and the gland is in general, in this variety and