891 GRANULATED LIVER. KIRRHOSIS. scribed. I have seen three persons among about 32 cases die with intestinal hemorrhage. Becquerel observed this five times in 42 cases. It is not uncommon for the granulated liver to be affected with superficial or peritoneal inflammation, and thus to contract adhe- sions to adjoining parts. In two cases I found the convex surface adhering extensively by false membrane to the diaphragm. This might have taken place previous to the granular transformation. I have seen the liver also adhering in this state to the stomach, and to the duodenum. Sometimes the gall-bladder is found thickened, and adhering preternaturally to adjoining parts. The capsule of Glisson is usually thickened, and appears to have been the seat of chronic inflammation. The state of the bile varies. In some cases it appears not per- ceptibly changed. In others it is dark-coloured, viscid, ropy. In a few it is liquid, light-coloured, and manifestly serous. In these states there appears to be nothing regular. Attendant lesions.—Kirrhosis may take place alone, that is, without lesion of other organs, or at most with a morbid state of the alimentary canal and its mucous membrane. But it is more common for it to be conjoined with lesions of other organs. The most common morbid accompaniment in this country is granular isease of lie kidney ; and I have seen a great number of instances in which the latter lesion was conjoined with kirrhosis either in the early or m the advanced stage. Becquerel, who has studied the esion particularly m this view, found among 42 cases only 7 which could be said to be simple or unconnected with lesion of other or- gans. ^ mong these were 19 m which the granulated state of the kidnevaS-C°9iPLCatL °r a3S0Giated with the granular state of the dney, in 21 kirrhosis was complicated with disease of the heart n different stages, and in two with pericarditis. The most usual card.ac lesion was hypertrophy of the left chambers ; hypertrophy o the right chambers; and changes in the valves of the^eft clim- bers m the order now observed. In 9 cases he found pulmonary mphysema ; and in one case pulmonary tubercles J Jl-mtked°diS tl“f “ T S° associated with 1ha "tamitlT f; bUt !n alm0st 0,1 the «— which ph "ma ’ WerC aCe8 °f Ch,'°nic bronchitis and cm-