1007 MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS. The same state of lungs takes place in partial aneurism of the heart.* These facts may be regarded as established. But another ques- tion remains for solution. What is the cause of this distension or injection of vessels, when it cannot be traced to disease of the heart ? What is the nature of that condition of the pulmonary capillaries which allows them to be so unusually distended ? What change in properties do they undergo in living persons in that par- ticular portion of lung, in consequence of which they become dis- tended with blood, which stagnates in them, and at length is forced from them by extravasation ? And lastly, why does this state not give rise to inflammation and its consequences ? To these ques- tions no satisfactory answer has hitherto been given. 2. Profuse hemorrhage from the lungs takes place in consequence of tubercular deposition and infiltration. In various persons the deposition of tubercular matter, either in the lungs or at the extre- mity of the bronchial tubes and vessels, induces the same disorder in the motion of the blood through the pulmonary capillaries which takes place in diseases of the heart. As the presence of these bo- dies encroaches both upon the lungs and the blood-vessels, the dif- ferent vessels of the lung become distended with blood, which is not allowed to move through them with the natural facility and ra- pidity ; accumulation consequently ensues; and afterwards extra- vasation, and sometimes even vessels have been found ruptured. When the tubercular deposition is extensive, and beginning to cause vascular congestion, serous extravasation,and softening, it also happens not unfrequently that the vessels become much enlarged and distended; their tunics at the same time are involved in °he morbid changes, become thickened and covered with morbid pro- ducts, and are thereby rendered brittle and lacerable ; and in this condition they often give way and cause profuse hemorrhage. 3. Lastly, it has been observed, in inspecting the lungs of persons who have died during the breaking down of tubercular masses and after these masses have been excavated, that, though in general some provision is made against the ulcerative destruction of the blood- vessels by coagula being formed in them, and by their cavities being, obliterated, yet in some instances a vessel has been found passiim- near or across a tubercular cavity, and, having been opened, has * Observations and Cases illustrating the the Heart. By David C'raigie, M. D. &c. VoL lix. p. 356. Edinburgh, 1043. Nature of False consecutive Aneurism of Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,