NERVOUS TISSUE. 393 show manifestly that the nerves are liable to tubercles of this kind. The proofs, in short, which may be adduced in favour of this idea, are the following. 1. In many instances of subcutaneous tubercle the lenticular body has been formed in the substance or coat of a nerve. (Short, Camper, Bisset, A.Petit, Tissot,Lassus, Jacopi, &c.) 2. In the majority of cases the tubercle can be traced distinctly to the branch, twig, or filament of a subcutaneous nerve. 3. The pain- ful sensation of which it is the seat, though severe and constant, is always aggravated by handling or pressing the tumour, and may be always traced along nervous branches. In the cases in which the neuromatic tubercle has been dissected, it has been found hard, cartilaginous, and slightly vascular. It seems in general to consist in morbid change of the neurilema, by deposition of albuminous matter in the neurilematic interstices. (Jacopi.) It is much more frequent in women than in men, in the proportion nearly of from seven to one, and from ten to one. Monteggia states that he found the entire nervous system occupied with numerous (centinaia,) neuromatic tubercles, which would in- dicate, as he observes, in some instances a neuromatic diathesis.* The cause of their formation is not known; but from the effects of ligature, division, and other injury, it may be in some manner con- ceived. It is important to observe, that in both classes of cases, the pre- sence of these tumoui’s gives rise to various remarkable effects. Thus they may, by the irritation which they cause in the nerve, induce not only intense pain, but give rise to epileptic motions. This is shown by the remarkable case given by Dr Short so far back as in 1720,| by the cases recorded by Mojon and Covercelli4 and by one mentioned by Portal.§ Is it not probable that, of the cases described as preceded by aura epilcptica several belong to this head, and are cases in which there is in a nerve either a tubercle or some similar source of irritation ? In other instances, these tumours are attended with anomalous and sometimes severe nervous symptoms. Pain and prickling or the feeling of the electric shock from the tumour along the limb. * Istituzione Cliirurgiche, Vol. II. p. 197. t An Epilepsy, &c. Med. Essays and Observ. Vol. IV. p. 416. + Memorie della Societate di Genova. Und Von Sicbold, Chiron, Band I. St. 3, where the Memoires of Mojon and Covcrcelli are translated. § Anatomie Medicale. Par A. Portal, Tome IV. p. 246. A body like a hard corn near the articulation of the first with the second phalanx on the palmar surface of the thumb.