177 ERECTILE TISSUE. to suppress the hemorrhage could be adopted. This is manifestly dependent on the plexiform arrangement of the multiplied venous vessels by which the vaginal mucous membrane is surrounded. 5. The disease described by John Bell and Mr Freer* under the name of aneurism by anastomosisf (aneurysma per anastomosin'), termed by Meckel angiectasia, (Ayyeiov wraths, vasorum dtlatalio,) and by some of the German pathologists, telangiectasis, (vasorum ultimorum distensio,) appears to be an accessory or morbid form of erectile tissue occurring in parts naturally provided with simple capillary tissue. In some circumstances it is a congenital disease, and appears at birth like a ncevus maternus. In its early stage the tumour is a mere pimple, and appears to consist of a congeries of arteries and veins.l In this state it is firm, and the throbbing is indistinct; but as the cellular net-work, which ultimately forms the bulk of the swelling, is developed, it becomes more compressible, and the pulsation becomes more evident. At last it appears to consist of a cluster of sacs of a purple or livid colour, which burst from time to time, and bleed profusely. Anastomotic aneurism may occur in any part of the body in which the capillary vessels are numerous. Mr Bell saw it in the face, near the angle of the eye. Mr Freer saw it within the mouth, between the gums and the cheek. I have seen it on the skin of the nose and on the gum. In two instances in which I saw it on the skin of the nose, the body resembled a small reddish mark on the skin, about the size * Observations on Aneorism and some Diseases of the Arterial System. By George Freer, Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, London, &c. Birmingham, 1807, p. 34. t The Principles of Surgery, in Two Volumes, &c. by John Bell, Surgeon, Discourse XT. p.456, Vol. I. 4to Edition. 1801. t “ The tumour is a congeries of active vessels ; and the cellular substance through which these vessels are expanded resembles the cellular part of the penis, the gills of a turkey cock, or the substances of the placenta, spleen, or womb. It is apparently a very simple structure that enables those parts, (the womb, the penis, the spleen,) to perform their functions ; and it is a very slight change of organization that forms this disease. The tumour is a congeries of small and active arteries, absorbing veins, and intermediate cells. The irritated and incessant action of the arteries fills the cells with blood ; from these cells it is reabsorbed by the veins ; the extremities of the vpins themselves perhaps dilate into this cellular form. There seems to be a perpetual circulation of blood ; for there is incessant pulsation. The tumour is permanent, but its occasional variation of bulk is singular. It swells like the penis in erection, or the gills of a turkey-cock in a passion. It is puffed up by exercise, drinking, or emotions of the mind. It is filled and distended with blood upon any occasion which quickens the circulation, as by venery, menstruation, the pleasures of the table, heated rooms, or the warmth of the bed.”—Principles of Surgery, p. 457. M