332 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. takes place in the foetus, in consequence of diseased action during intra-uterine life. This is altogether different from the sense in which^the term, as above explained, has been employed; for the atrophy in the cases here considered is not congenital, but acquired in the progress of life. The atrophy of Cruveilhier, on the other hand, is congenital, and is the most common cause of idiocy. As such it is considered under the head of Anencephalous Malforma- tion or Deficient Brain, (Enkephalelleipsis.) 14. Organic changes, morbid growths, or tumours.—Of these va- rious forms have been observed by different authors. But they have not in all instances distinguished accurately between tumours originating in the cerebral substance, and those which, originating in the membranes, affect the substance of the organ secondarily. As this distinction must be observed, at least in pathological ana- tomy, I shall not be liable to the charge of futile innovation, if I attempt to trace the distinction in the following sketch. The different forms of tumour occurring in the brain may be referred to the following heads: a, the simple cerebral tumour; /3, the adenoid or fleshy tumour; y, strumous tumours, comprehend- ing tubercles and tubercular deposits ; <3, the gelatiniform tumour, (colloma ;) s, the adipose, lardaceous, or wax-like degeneration, (ce- rorna;) £, the cholesterine tumour, (margaroides ;) »?, the cartilagi- nous tumour, (chondroma ;) 6, calcareous or bony deposits; /, en- cysted tumours, including a, the hydatid-cyst or vesicular tumour, b, the blood cyst, (haematoma,) c, the fungoid tumour, and d, the melanotic cyst. a. Simple cerebral tumour. (Scleroma.) Of considerable indura- tion of particular regions of the brain, I have already spoken. When the indurated portion is definite in limits, and the rest ol the organ preserves its usual characters, these indurated portions have been vaguely described under the general name of tumours. It is more correct, however, to regard them as portions of brain indurated to an unusual degree, and perhaps changed in intimate structure. As the simplest form of tumour incident to the brain, this claims the first place. Of this change the most authentic examples have been recorded by Platerus, Meckel, Roederer, Perotti, and Greding. From the descriptions given by these authors, part of the cerebral substance appears to acquire unusual firmness, and to become somewhat like coagulated albumen. It is not much changed in colour, unless in losing some of its whiteness, and assuming a pale yellow or orange-