233 MAIN. togs are removed, they are observed to present many minute orifi- ces, into which the soft membrane (fs^rri pwyZ,* meninx tenuis, pm mater,) transmits filamentous bodies, most of them minute blood- vessels. They are neither arteries nor veins exclusively, but seem to consist of both. Neither the eminences, nor the hollows or depressions, are uni- form in number or distribution ; and in no two brains is it possible to trace any similarity in the figure, presence, or direction of these objects. This must be understood of the whole upper, lateral, and posterior part of the convoluted surface, and, in short, all its divi- sions, unless where it approaches the central or figurate surface. In the latter situation, this want of uniformity disappears; and a number of important objects are presented to the attention of the observer. The points at which this approach of the two surfaces takes place, are, 1st, Along the rectilinear margin of the commu- tual region, where it is contiguous with the upper surface and the posterior end of the middle or central hand ; 2d, From the last of these situations, on each side over the protuberance and cerebral limbs; 3d, From this again by the outer margin of the cerebral limbs, to the curvilinear hollow and along its course. In the last of these situations chiefly the convoluted surface becomes important, and exhibits objects which distinguish these regions from the others. The outer surface of the cerebellum, or small brain, differs from that of the brain proper. It cannot be said to be convoluted ; for it does not present the tortuous eminences and furrows which con- stitute the convolutions of this part of the organ. But the cere- bral matter of which it consists, is disposed in the manner of plates (laminae) or leaves [folia), parallel to each other, or at least con- centric, and separated by parallel or concentric furrows. It is scarcely requisite to say, that this definition is not meant to imply,, that the direction of all these objects is the same throughout the whole organ,—but merely that the cerebellic plates, of which cer- tain groups consist, observe the same direction;—and that any- one or two plates or leaves have several of the contiguous ones pa- rallel or concentric with them, while those of the next group, though disposed differently, observe the same direction in relation to each other. By this peculiarity the various regions of the laminated or foliated surface of the small brain may be distinguished. The plates of the hemispheres are curvilinear and concentric, and pur- sue in various regions of the organ certain definite directions ;