746 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. CHAPTER IV. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE.—Membraiia Synovialis.—Bursa; Mucosae. Section I. Bichat enumerates several circumstances in which he conceives that serous and synovial membrane differ from each other. Gor- don, who doubts how far the distinctions are well founded as the basis of anatomical arrangement, admits, however, peculiarities which shall afterwards be mentioned. Synovial membrane resembles serous membrane in so far as it is a thin, transparent substance, having one smooth free surface turned towards certain cavities of the body, and another connected by delicate cellular substance to the sides of these cavities, or to the parts contained in them. But it differs from serous membrane in the following circumstances. 1st, It possesses little vascularity in the healthy state; no blood-vessels are almost ever seen in it after death, nor can they be made to receive the finest injection. 2d, Its lymphatics are quite incapable of demonstration. 3d, Very de- licate fibres, like those of cellular substance, or like the finest fila- ments of tendon, are distinctly seen in it after slight maceration. 4th. It is considerably less strong than serous membrane. On these grounds, therefore, synovial membrane is to be anatomically dis- tinguished from serous membrane. The synovial membrane, as described above, is found not only in each of the moveable articulations, but in those sheaths in which tendons are lodged, and in which they undergo a considerable ex- tent of motion, and in certain situations in the subcutaneous filamen- tous tissue. The distribution of the synovial membranes is much the same in all these situations. They are known to line the ligamentous appa- ratus of each joint, capsular and funicular ; and they are also con- tinued over the cartilaginous extremities of the bones of which the articulation consists. This continuation, which was originally main- tained by Nesbitt, Bonn, and William Hunter, and was demonstrat- ed by various facts by Bichat, was afterwards questioned by Gordon and Magendie, the former of whom especially thinks it unsuscep-