1038 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The cases of enkephaloid disease published in 1817 and 1818 by Mr Langstaff showed, so far as negative evidence goes, that skirrhus does not affect internal organs ; and that enkephaloma is the usual form in which malignant disease attacks the lungs. With the ex- ception of one case referred to the head of tuberculated sarkoma, all presented the usual characters of enkephaloma; and pVobably this was enkephaloid deposit in the tuberculated form.* These facts and considerations deducible from them, have led Mr Travers to consider skirrhus and enkephaloma as dependent on the same generating cause, and that this, whatever it be, produces in one order of organs, mostly external, the skirrhus deposit, and in another order, mostly internal, the enkephaloid formation.f It is not easy to say whether this view be the correct one or not; but the facts which support it, show the truth of the doctrine which has been several times stated in the course of this volume, that enkepha- loma is the most common malignant deposit that affects internal organs. It seems indeed doubtful whether genuine skirrhus has been found in the lungs; for all the authentic cases hitherto recorded present the characters of the enkephaloid deposit.^ It has been observed to pass from the mamma to the pleura, and thence to the lungs. This, however, is not the primary affection of the lungs by skirrhus. Enkephaloma is greatly more common, and, according to the most authentic evidence hitherto adduced, must be regarded as the principal form in which cancer affects the lungs. It may appear in four different modes. In the first place, the enkephaloid matter is deposited in the bron- chial glands, and causes the gradual enlargement of these bodies and their encroachment on the bronchial tubes, and the substance of the lungs. As this enlargement proceeds, the breathing is increased in difficulty, and fluid is effused within the pleura. The masses * Cases of Fungus Haematodes with Observations, Sec. By George Langstaff, Esq., &c. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. viii. p. 272, &c. London, 1817. Cases of Fungus Haematodes, Cancer, and Tuberculated Sarkoma, &c. By George Langstaff, Esq. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. ix. p. 297. London, 1818. f Observations on Local Diseases termed Malignant. By Benjamin Travers, F.R.S., &c. Parts I. and II. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xv. p. 195 and 228. Lond. 1829. Part III, Vol. xvii. p. 300. London, 1832. J Case of Extensive Carcinoma of the Lungs. By George Burrows, M. D., Ac. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxvii. p. 118. Lond. 1844. Cases of Malignant Disease of'the Lungs. By II. Marshall Hughes, M. D. Guy’s Hospital Reports, Vol. vi. p. 330. Lond. 1842.