GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 966 lar, these hollow white lines are not observed. The mass of the skirrhus consists of a fibrous and granular gray substance. The fibrous mass is rarely manifest on section ; but it is distinguished by scraping the gray mass, for which the fibrous seems the frame-work. When the gray globular mass is removed by scraping or macera- tion, the fibrous framework appears to be a very irregular network of solid fibrous bundles. The gray matter, which is easily removed fiom this framework by scraping, consists entirely of microscopical globules, which have little mutual connection. They are trans- parent, hollow cells or vesiculae, varying from 10o5ooo to ioo?o°oo> and iooTooo of a Paris inch in diameter. They are insoluble in vinegar and vrater cold and boiling. In many of these cells arc seen only some pnnctula or dots like small granules; in others may be recognized a larger corpuscle like a nucleus, or like a smaller vesicula contained within a cell-globule. After examining many scirrhous mammae, Muller could not satisfy himself of the existence of small or young cellules in the formation-globules; yet these he saw evidently in some.* c. A form of cancer more common than simple scirrhus in the breast, is, according to Muller, that which he denominates reticu- lar carcinoma. This attains in a shorter time than simple skirrhus a large size, and it differs from the latter in its tendency to the lobu- lar arrangement. In consistence it sometimes approaches skirrhus, and sometimes is softer, approaching that of enkephaloma. Reticular carcinoma consists of a gray globular frame-work, im- bedded in a reticular texture of fibrous bundles, which is recognized when the gray granular mass is scraped or macerated. The gray mass consists of transparent formation-globules or cell-globules, similar to those observed in simple scirrhus. These contain often one, two, or more small vesiculcc with colourless nuclei. In other instances the smaller germinal cells cannot be recognized within the larger formation-globules. On the other hand, in the interior of the transparent cell-globules, appear very many granules. Similar small granules are also observed sometimes in large quantity, free be- tween the vesicube,—the smallest with molecular action. The colour- less cell-globules have a diameter of from 1.00V000 to 100,000 and i(50,ooo °f one Paris inch. The diameter of the enclosed granules is only from one-fifth to one-fourth of the diameter of the cells. * Ueber den Feincrn Bau und die Formen der Krankhaften Geschwiilste. von Dr Jo- hannes Miillcr. Erste Lieferung. Berlin, 1838. Seite 14. 3