GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY* 520 ent small-pox this provision is not observed. No outer swelled or red ring is observed, and the mucous body of Malpighi is not in such circumstances affected with the just and laudable action of the disease. These results he ascribes to the spongy structure of the Malpighian membrane, which swells and secretes a lympliy fluid. In the crystalline small-pox, the fluid of which is almost pellucid, he asserts that the mucous body, instead of being converted into good matter, is filled with a caustic eroding humour, which seldom fails to leave deep scars.* Though these crystalline pocks are nearly allied to his second kind, the vesicular, they must not be entirely confounded with them. They are utterly destitute of depression from their origin, are quite similar to minute blisters, and he conceives them to be generated in a similar manner, that is, by the inflammatory action operating like a scald, and detaching very rapidly from the mucous body the cuticle, so as to form vesicles or vesicular pustules. The purple- like pocks he explains in a similar manner. They are merely ve- sicular elevations of the cuticle, containing at first a watery fluid, but mixed afterwards with blood or bloody fluid exuding from the mucous body or vessels of the skin. They are generally mixed with petechial spots, the origin of which depends on the same cause. In short, the doctrine of Cottugni is explicitly the following. The natural and ordinary character of the small-pock is to pro- duce in the mucous body (vascular web) of the skin a pit or de- pressed point, which is soon surrounded with an elevated circle, in- dicating inflammation of the corial surface. As this inflammatory process proceeds from the central pit or navel to the circumference, the elevated ring of mucous or vascular web is gradually convert- ed into purulent matter, which necessarily renders the summit of the pock flatter and more extensive, while its centre remains de- pressed. The formation of purulent matter is indicated, he says, by the appearance of a whitish ring (albidus annulus,) which is at first at the vertex, but extends successively to the base of the pock. In this course, he says, it does not affect the corion (cutis) if the pocks be good ; for before it reaches this membrane the purulent matter occupying the circumference of the pock either by bursting it escapes, or by the itching which it causes at length gets an out- * Pominici Cottunnii Regii Anatomes Professoris <Ie Sedibiis VarioLarum Svnt-ag.- . Vienna, 1771. lxxx. paragr. ma.