687 SEROUS MEMBRANE. Thus the abdominal peritonaeum and the costal pleura are more easily removed than the intestinal peritonaeum and the pulmonic pleura. The peritonaeum adheres feebly to the bladder, to the liver, and to the pancreas, more intimately to the different regions of the intestinal tube, and seems to be almost identified with the substances of the female organs of generation. From the in- terior of the capsular pericardium and from the vaginal coat it is almost impossible to detach the serous pellicle. The former, however, I shall have occasion to show, is peculiar in having between the serous surface and the fibrous membrane no filamentous tissue, upon the abundance or deficiency of which the degree of adhesion depends. The free or unadherent surface, which has been also named inner, is very smooth or polished and uniform, moistened with a watery fluid, from which it derives in some degree its shining appearance, and completely destitute of fibres or any other trace of organic structure. From this smooch polished aspect, which is a peculiar attribute of the free surface of serous membrane, all the organs covered by it derive their glistening appearance. Thus the exte- rior surface of the lungs derives its appearance from the pleura, the heart from the pericardium, the liver and intestinal canal from the peritonaeum. A successful injection of size or turpentine, colour- ed with vermilion, brings into view so many capillary blood-vessels in this membrane, that it might be supposed at first sight to con- sist entirely of minute arteries and veins. Farther, by proper ma- nagement, lymphatics may be injected in it with quicksilver to a degree equally minute and delicate. From these experiments, therefore, it may be concluded, that serous membrane is chiefly composed of minute arteries and veins conveying colourless fluids, and of vessels connected with the general trunks of the lymphatic system. Whether it contain anything else but vessels of this kind, or has a proper substance or tissue, remains to be ascertained. Though nerves are often seen passing along their outer or attach- ed surface to the neighbouring tissues, none have hitherto been traced either into the pleura or peritonaeum. By most of the older anatomists, and among others by Haller and William Hunter, serous membrane is considered as of the na- ture of filamentous tissue or cellular membrane, more or less closely condensed, (tela ccllulosa stipata ;)* and this view is adopted and * Elem. Physiolog. Lib. iv., sect. i. ยง j. xvi. Lib. xxii.