130 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. without injury of texture. When one part of a vein is dilated into a distinct sac, I believe the inner coat is generally rent. In some cases of varix one or more valves are lacerated, or detached from the inner membrane. In others varix has followed a rent or lace- rated wound of the outer venous tunic, or a cutaneous ulcer affect- ing that tunic. Varix occurs especially in the veins of the lower extremities, for instance in the trunk or branches of the saphena. It is common in those of the spermatic chord, in which it is distinguished by the name of varico-cele, and not unfrequent in the veins of the rectum, where it causes one variety of hemorrhoidal tumours. In the up- per extremities it is rare, one case only by Petit being recorded. I have seen, nevertheless, a varicose tumour of the posterior ulnar vein on the back of the hand, which disappeared under the use of pressure, continued for six or seven months. Of the internal veins the vena azygos and subclavian have been found varicose. (Morgagni, Portal, Baillie.) When a cluster of subcutaneous veins becomes varicose, they generally give rise to much pain, swelling and redness of the skin, and if not opposed by suitable treatment, may produce cutaneous inflammation terminating- in a bad ulcer. ( Ulcus varicosum.) The same process nearly may result from the inflammation round a single varicose trunk. Varix sometimes terminates in laceration or rupture; and if the vein be large and not covered by the skin, the hemorrhage may be fatal. (Laurentius, Nebel, Bonet.) Varix of the vena azygos terminating in rupture and fatal hemorrhage was seen by Manfredi.* Ossification. Calcareous or osseous matter is very rarely depo- sited in venous tissue. Instances of this, however, are recorded. (Morgagni, Baillie, Hodgson.)f Loose stony concretions have been found in the cavity of veins, which in such circumstances are generally dilated. These concre- tions do not appear to be formed and deposited in the venous tissue, but, according to Hodgson, are more likely to have been produced outside by some contiguous tissue, and to have found their way in- to the venous tube by progressive absorption. Is it not possible that they are the result of temporary retardation or stagnation of a portion of blood around which, as a nucleus, calcareous matter had been deposited? They have not been chemically examined; but it is said that they have no appearance of any thing osseous. * Morgagni, xxvi. 29. f Treatise, Part iv. sect. 2.