528 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. licle is often induced by full or rather gross living, by the transi- tion from moderation to some degree of excess ; and sometimes boils are critical, as in diseases of the lungs, and in some of those of the alimentary canal. b. Of the same nature are the inflammatory tumours termed Epi- nyctis and Terminthus mentioned by all authors almost from Celsus to Wiseman. c. Though in this place I notice carbuncle as an example of spread- ing inflam ir ation of the substance of the corion, yet the question of its precise seat is not free from ambiguity. Hunter believed it to begin in the skin, and going deeper to affect principally the cel- lular membrane, in which it caused mortification; and with this Pearson agrees. Boyer places it in the integuments and subcuta- neous cellular tissue; while Monteggia, who repeats the fact that it destroys a considerable portion of the teguments and cellular substance down to the muscles, seem to regard it as a peculiar action affecting several tissues simultaneously and successively. The statement of Hunter I was at one time disposed to regard as exhibiting a just view of the pathology of carbuncle, and to think that Willan laboured under a mistake in referring the seat of carbuncle to the skin. From observing the progress of several carbuncles from their origin to their termination, and from cutting them open more than once and examining their morbid relations as carefully as it is possible to do in the living body, I am satisfied that the opinion of Hunter is not correct, and that that of Willan is not altogether wrong. In several carbuncles which I have ob- served from the beginning, the inflammatory action commenced in the skin in the form of a hard knotty pustule; a circumstance which corresponds with the admission of Hunter. If cut open at this time, which may be done not only with safety, but with benefit, the corion is found to be thicker than natural, much redder, and more vascular ; and these marks of inflammation pervade not only the substance of the corion to a considerable extent, but the sub- cutaneous cellular membrane in a slighter degree. This inflam- mation of the cellular membrane spreads indeed along with that of the skin ; but it also kills this tissue almost immediately, or at least speedily gives it the usual appearance of mortified matter. At the same time, the inflammation of the corion extending quickly, kills at least its exterior surface ; and Hunter is inaccurate in say- ing that the skin does not die, but gives way by ulceration. Death of the corion is an early effect of carbuncular inflammation : and