5 DIVISION OE THE TEXTURES. accomplished scholar and indefatigable observer was the first who attempted to present, in a collected form, the most correct informa- tion on the intimate structure of the animal tissues. Assiduous in his cultivation of anatomy, and deeply impressed with the necessity of accuracy in research, Haller scrutinized with the eye of rigorous observation every point in anatomical structure advanced by his predecessors and contemporaries. In his description of the cellular web, of the adipose membrane, of arterial texture of the veins, of the structure of the heart, of that of the brain and nerves, of the lungs, of the minute structure of the muscles, of the membranes, and of the organs in general, the reader perceives, that, while Hal- ler did not disdain to avail himself of the results of previous and coeval inquiry, he scrupulously avoided adopting what he had not verified by personal observation. The work which he modestly styled Elements of Physiology shows, that, in extent of information and soundness of judgment, he had no rival in the day in which he lived; and though something has been added to science since his death, it is more by the combined efforts of many than by the la- bours of any individual. Amidst so much excellence it was unfortunate that the vain search after an elementary fibre or rudiment, into which every va- riety of animal substance was supposed to be resolved, led him to indulge in some fanciful conjecture and gratuitous generalization.* The distinction of the animal body into separate kinds of texture (1757), thus introduced and recognised, was confined principally to anatomy and physiology. The merit of applying them to pathology is divided between William Hunter, William Cullen, and John Hunter. The first, in a paper on Emphysema, in the second vo- lume of the Medical Observations and Inquiries (1762,) gave in 1757 an ingenious account of the difference between the cellular tex- * It will scarcely be credited that Ilaller could speak of this hypothetical fibre in the following terms. “ Fibra cpio communi nomine multiplex genus elementorum comprehendimus, et cujus discrimina continuo exponemus, communis toti humano corpori materies est, etiam, ut alibi ostendemus, cerebro et medulla; spinali. Fragilis aut mollis, elastica, aut penitus pultacea, longa absque fere latitudine, vel lata ut longitudini par fere latitudo sit, ossa, cartilagines, membranas, vasa, ligamenta, tendines, musculos, nervos, cellulosum textum, viscerum parenchymata, pilos et ungues sola constituit.” Here it is represented as constituting the most opposite animal substances, and entering into the composition of every texture. The composition of this ideal fibre is not less wonderful. « Invisibilis ea fibra, quam sola mentis acie attingimus, ex solis dementis terreis et glutme, non ex minoribus fibris composite cum sui simihbus abit in duo conspicua elementa solida corporis animalis.”