SEROUS MEMBRANE.—INFLAMMATORY PRODUCTS. 699 ments, and oozes from the surface of the coagulated part. These facts are easily demonstrated, by examining the effused matter while still recent, and while the process of coagulation is going on, but not completed. It is then a soft, spongy, translucent matter, of a straw-yellow colour, and pulpy gelatinous consistence. When removed from the membrane its surface is rough and inegular, like honey-comb, and marked by blood spots more 01 less nume- rous, which are occasioned by the forcible rupture of the minute vessels of the membrane passing into the new product; while se- rous fluid trickles from it and falls to the most dependent pait of the cavity. YV hen cut or torn in minute pieces, this serous fluid oozes abundantly from the sections; and the observer may then remark the filamentous and cellular disposition of the solid coagu- lated portions. The filaments varying in size cross each other mu- tually, so as to form partitions and intermediate cells, but without regular order. The matter thus effused is what was named by Hunter coagulat- ing or coagulable lymph, in consequence of its property of sponta- neous coagulation. It is often mentioned among some of the older anatomists as masses of liquid fat found between the serous mem- branes ; and even Dr Cleghorn speaks of it in this manner. Its property of coagulation depends chiefly on the proportion of albu- men which it contains. If a mass of coagulable lymph in its re- cent, straw-coloured, and translucent state, be immersed in alcohol, it instantly becomes shrivelled, indurated, of a white colour, and perfectly opaque; and the same changes result from immersion in dilute acids or in boiling fluids. It also becomes much tougher and firmer. From this circumstance it has been denominated by the foreign authors albuminous exudation. Of its soft state, when recently effused, it is of the utmost importance for the physician to be aware, in consequence of the fact which I have now verified se- veral times, that in the pleura it communicates to the ear the same stethoscopic and percussive phenomena which arise from the pre- sence of fluid. b. Afterits first coagulation this substance undergoes other changes which are highly important in a pathological relation. As the dia- phanous membranes are at all times mutually applied, a very com- mon effect of this effused substance and its coagulation is to connect the corresponding points more or less firmly. The process by which this is accomplished was understood by Hunter and Baillie,