763 GLANDULAR TISSUE. cular twigs, (as in the pancreas of birds; and in the liver of the embryo of birds and mammalia.) IX. Glands of the ninth order. Consisting of short TUBULES AND VESSELS, NOT RAMIFIED. The elements of the glands in this order are tubules long and very long; of equal diameter to their short ends; either straight or serpentine. At the origin they are often furcated; after that simple without giving branches. They appear under six forms. 1. From a lateral excretory duct arise bundles of tubules, as in the kidneys ol many fishes, and batrachoid animals, and in the testes of fishes. The tubules proceed either parallel towards the opposite margin, as in the kidneys of the petromyzon and frogs, and the testes of fishes; or they wind tortuous and serpentine, as in the kidneys of the ray family and serpents. 2. Bundles of parallel tubules everywhere issue from branching excretory ducts. Such are the kidneys of the crocodile and tor- toise. 3. An excretory duct divided into very long uniform serpentine vessels; as the seminiferous canals of the higher animals, and the prostate glands of the hedgehog. 4. Tubules forked and fasciculated like rays or wheel-spokes, pro- ceeding from an excretory duct; as in the testes of frogs and cuttle-fish. _^ei y lonS v^sels; pinnatifid at apex; closed; rising in bundles from a branched excretory duct; as in the kidneys of birds. 6. Very long vessels rising in bundles, at first bifurcated, then pur- suing a serpentine course, without branches. The kidneys of the mammalia and man. The proportion between the ureter and the uriniferous ducts varies in three modes. . Ihe ureter is continued to branches; from these arise bundles of uriniferous ducts arranged in separate lobules externally serpentine, as is seen in the kidneysof the cetacea.’ . One single ureter passes into a pelvis and calyces, which receive the bundles of the uriniferous ducts. These bundles are evolved in the lobated kidney, externally serpentine; but the lobules are not altogether separated, as in the kid- neys of several mammalia. In the kidneys of the rest, even the superficial lobes of the Kidneys disappear.