1040 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. In this mode of approach, the new growth passes to the left side of the diaphragm, the tendinous centre, the pericardium, heart, and part of the left lung. The extent to which the growth proceeds in this direction is a mere question of time. If life be sufficiently prolonged, the growth is found affecting a considerable portion of the left lung. If the patient be destroyed early, then less of that lung is involved. It must further be allowed that enkephaloma appears to be de- posited in the form of tuberous masses in the lungs, much in the same manner in which they are deposited in the liver. Such was the mode of deposition in the cases given by Mr Langstaff and Mr Lawrence. The tuberosities are further stated to have been en- closed within very delicate cysts. Some of these were very vascu- lar. In one case given by Mr Langstaff, the deposit had affected the uterus and lungs, but not the liver or other abdominal viscera. These masses vary in size from the bulk of peas to that of small apples.* When the disease appears in the left demithorax, it by its increas- ing size, not only displaces the lung to the mediastinum and upper part of the chest, but it thrusts the heart over towards the right side of the chest, j Dr Warren records the case of a man of 25 in whom colloid cancer affected the subcutaneous cellular tissue, the absorbent glands, the skull, the muscles, the heart, the lungs, the liver, pan- creas, and kidneys.^ Other instances, however, would be required to confirm the inference that colloid cancer affects the lungs. § 15. Melanosis.—Of this deposit two forms are observed to take place in the lungs; one true melanosis; the other consisting of a deposition or formation of carbonaceous matter from smoke and small dust inhaled, and which has been distinguished by the name spurious melanosis. Between these affections, however, though similar, there is no natural alliance. In true melanosis the deposit takes place in two modes. In one it affects first the bronchial glands, infiltrating them with a dark- blue-coloured matter, most commonly solid, sometimes slightly fluid, semi-fluid, or pasty. The glands are at the same time en- larged, and. usually increase in size as the deposit proceeds; and * Cases of Fungus Haematodes, &c. By George Langstaff, Esq. Medico-Chirurg- Transactions, Vol. viii. and ix. f On Malignant Tumours connected with the Heart and Lungs. By John Sims, M. D., Ac. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xviii. p. 281. London, 1833. £ Peculiar Case of Gelatiniform Cancer, &c. with the Appearances on Dissection. Bv John C. Warren, M. D. Med.-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. xxvii. p. 385. London, 1844.