662 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. lent form of inflammation, which, by producing effusion of lymph, causes mutual adhesion of the sides of the canal.* By Howship, this is ascribed to excoriation between the labia, causing at an early age effusion of lymph, so as to resemble aphthae.; and he mentions an instance in a child of two months, in which lymph had been se- creted, and had become vascular, leaving a minute aperture for the urine at the inferior angle of the vagina.f If these two forms of inflammation be different, the latter is probably of the same nature as that now to be mentioned. § 5. Sloughing inflammation of mucous surfaces.—To this head I refer two varieties of disease met with, particularly at the com- munication of the two great mucous surfaces with the skin. The first is the disease originally described by Hoffmann and Van Swieten under the name of cancrum oris, the water canker of Dr Robert Hamilton of Lynn Regis,^ and more recently by Dr M. Hall,§ Dr Thomas Cumming,|| and various subsequent observ- ers, In this disease the mucous membrane of the mouth, cheek, or gums, becomes hot, swelled, of a dark-red colour, and eventu- ally black, hard, and dead. The mortified portion begins then to be thrown off; hut in the meantime the original inflammatory pro- cess advances; and combined with that necessary for ejecting the sloughs, is accompanied with extreme pain, and much constitutional disturbance. Though this disorder has been thought to originate in the skin, in which it appears when presented to the practitioner, it may always be traced to the mucous membrane of the mouth; a fact which is properly verified by the observation of Dr Cumming.f The second variety of this disease is seen in the pudendum of young girls, in whom the labial or valvular membrane is liable to a species of diffuse inflammation, which almost invariably terminates in mortification of the mucous corion, which is then cast in the form of slough. According to the observations of Mr Kinder Wood, to whom we are indebted for the most distinct account of this disorder yet published, the labial mucous membrane becomes of a dark red colour, swelled, and covered by numerous watery v c- sicles or aphthae, the cuticle of which dropping off discloses deep * Morbid Anatomy, Chap. xxii. p. 415. -|- Practical Observations, &c. Chap. vi. p. 360. + jipud On the Marsh Remittent Fever, &c. London, 1801. § Edin. Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xv. || Dublin Hospital Reports, Vol. iv. p. 330. U Ibid. p. 335.