543 SKIN. fibro-cartilaginous structure, the fibrous bands being generally ar- ranged in a waving direction. In the most distinct example of the disease which I examined personally—a case of scirrho-carcinoma- tous degeneration of the whole skin of the penis, these fibrous bands were disposed transversely to the long direction of the part, and ap- peared to consist of a fibro-cartilaginous long band folded repeat- edly on itself. IV. Reproduction.—The reparation of the corion when destroyed has been maintained by many authors. Notwithstanding their as- sertions, however, this membrane is never, after its substance has been injured, restored to its original state. The breach is filled up by firm cellular tissue, the upper surface of which never acquires the organization of the outer surface of the corion. It is neverthe- less capable of furnishing cuticle by which this new corion is co- vered. These facts may be verified in the cicatrization of burns and other injuries in which the corion has been destroyed.* V. Parasitical Animals.—By these the skins both of animals and the human race are liable to be infested. One of these proper to the human race, (Demodex Folliculorum) has been already noticed when speaking of acne. Besides these there are others more easily recognized, especially the several species of Pediculi; the Ped. Capitis; the Ped. Corporis; and the Ped. Pubis, or Mor- piones. These are well known, and require no notice here. Of one parasitical animal, however, the existence has been so much contested for two centuries, that it was alternately admitted and denied, until, by the aid of the microscope, its existence and nature were placed in 1833 beyond the reach of doubt. I refer to the itch insect, (the Sarltoptes scabiei'). .V rapid notice of the discovery and recognition of this animal is all that can be admitted in these pages. For several centuries the inhabitants of the south of Europe re- cognized the existence of an insect in itch, and were in the habit of extracting and destroying it. In the 12th century it is mentioned by Abenzohr; and in the 15th and 16th centuries more or less fully by Ingrassias, Gabucinus, and Laurence Joubert, each of whom agreed in ascribing to the movements and ravages of this animal beneath or within the skin the fierce itching of scabies. Ottoms Huhn Commentatio de Regeneratione, &c. 1707. P. 23 &c Andrew J. G. Murray Commentatio de Redintegration, 1787. P. 50. A Dissertation on ?c° PrT0CCSf °f ™ I116. fillincg UP of cavities, &c. By James Moore, Member «c. London, 1789. Sect. 11. p. 54, &c.