256 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. more can be inferred than that the parts so arranged are mutually and generally connected. The inner fibrous part of the brain proper is divided by Red into the system of the brain-limbs (crura;—Das Hirnschenkel-system ;) the system of the beam or mesolobe, (Das-Balken system;) and the striated ganglion (das gestreifte Hirnganglion;), and to one or other of these he refers the arrangement of all the other parts of which the organ is composed. I do not adopt all his views, nor is it requisite to follow his distinctions minutely. But I shall attempt to trace briefly what I conceive admits of demonstrable proof. The beam or mesolobe, (corpus callosum, Der Balken; consists of white cerebral matter disposed in transverse fibres, which meet on the mesial plane, and thus give rise to the longitudinal lines seen on its upper surface (Raphe externa et interna, Reil). They appear to change direction, and bend down at right angles, parallel with those of the opposite half. At the distance of from four to five lines on each side, these transverse fibres undergo a similar interruption or change of direction, so as to form the covered bands (die bedeckten Bander), which appear also in the form of long, firm, fibrous lines, extending longitudinally along the upper surface of the beam. Between these bands and the inner margin of the olfa- cient groove a connection may be traced over the knee (das Knie), or anterior end of the beam. Beyond the covered bands the transverse fibres pass directly into the white matter of the hemispheres, where they are connected in different modes with different parts. The general direction is that of expansion, like the rods of a fan, or radiation, like the rays of a luminous body. The fibres which compose the knee or anterior end, sinking into the hemisphere near the anterior cornu, meet those forming the first and anterior staff of the brain-limb, which lie in the anterior knotty end of the striated body, and wind round the adjoining edge of the staff-wreath ; (der Stabkranz). In the intermediate substance, which is knotty before, and spreads into a brush-shaped expansion behind, the middle rods of the staff-wreath unite with their anterior extremities, and with the fibres of the beam. This forms the first or anterior junction of the beam with the limbs. The middle fibres, passing immediately into the hemisphere, meet more abruptly with those of the limbs Suddenly contract- ing, as it were, they coalesce with those of the taenia, and are co-