340 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. bodies were confined to the gray or external matter, none being found in the white cerebral substance.* Not dissimilar were the bodies found by M. Chomel in the brain of a woman of 30, who, with obstinate vomiting and epigastric pain, had headach at first slight and confined to the hind head, latterly extending to the frontal region, when it was constant and severe. Though the in- tellectual powers are stated to have been unimpaired to the last, death was preceded by sudden aggravation of her sufferings and loss of consciousness. In the brain were found about thirty or forty small round bodies, resembling the human crystalline lens in colour, size, and consistence. In the cerebellum were two similar, and in the spinal chord, opposite the last dorsal vertebra, one. In several parts of the organ also were minute abscesses, supposed to be produced by the softening of similar tubercles, f The two cases now noticed are considered as of a strumous nature by the authors under whose observation they fell. It is unfortu- nate that they have given almost no information on the physical and chemical qualities of the matter thus deposited in the substance of the brain. Though its nature is thus left undetermined, I have ventured to refer them to the present head, because they seem to be deposits of albuminous matter slightly modified, and because they doubtless present some alliance with certain of the forms of tubercular deposition in other textures. From the researches of Dr II. Green, it results that Tyromo, of the brain is a disease principally of early life. Among 30 cases in- spected, all were between the ages of 19 months and 12 years; and 13 cases occurred between the ages of two and four years inclusive. As to sex, 14 cases took place in boys and 16 in girls. It is a chro- nic disease, and causes few symptoms until it has encroached much on the cerebral substance.^ 5. The Gelatiniform tumour. ( Colloides.) To this head I refer a peculiar sort of new growth which 1 have seen extending over the base of the brain from the optic chiasma backwards to part of the protuberance, and on each side over the hemispheres. The body was soft and jelly-like, not dissimilar to white currant jelly or thin glue, tremulous, and easily lacerable. It varied in thickness, being in some * J. C. Reil, Memorabilia Clin. Vol. ii. Fasc. i. No. 2. 1792- f Nouveau Journal de Med. Mars 1818, p. 191-196. A similar is given in the sup- plement to Dr Abercrombie’s work, from Prof. Nasse, p. 431. The ease of Dr Hawkins, (Med. and Phys. Journal, Vol. Ivi. p. 8,) may probably be of the same description. + Observations on Tubercle of the Brain in Children. By P. H. Green, M. P., Me- dico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. XXV. p. 192. London, 1842. <