GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 960 sistent with the presence of the inflammatory process, either as a cause or as a concomitant. Every aberration in nutrition is pre- ceded and accompanied with a considerable change in the circula- tion of the part; and whenever the aberration consists in the infil- tration or deposition of new matter, the change in circulation is similar to, or the same with inflammation. This is seen in the in- duration of other organs as the lungs, the brain, the liver, and the prostate gland. When, therefore, the granular disease of the kid- ney is called degeneration and transformation, it does not follow, that the ideas thus conveyed exclude the presence of the inflamma- tory process. The urine and the blood are much changed in granular disease of the kidney. The urine contains less urea than the normal proportion, and always presents more or less sero-albuminous matter. Its density at the same time is diminished ; and may vary from 1008, or 1010, or 1011 to 1115. The urine may be in colour brown, straw-coloured, or reddish; or it may be pale and nearly colourless. Viewed by refracted light, it has a peculiar pale-blue opalescent tinge. The serum of the blood is less dense than usual, being about 1013, and rarely above 1022. The solid contents are reduced from 100 or 102 per 1000, to 68, 64, or 61 per 1000. The serum in this state forms when heated a loose coagulum. It contains urea, and not unusually it contains more or less oil; in which case it is milky. The proportion of fibrin is increased in the early stage. But as the disease advances it is diminished. The hematosin at the same time is diminished in quantity. When the kidneys are affected with steatosis, it is observed that there is a strong disposition to the production of various inflamma- tory and irritative disorders in different organs. The most usual are the following. 1. In the brain and its membranes. Epileptic and apoplectic symp- toms ; death by either, or by stupor. Comatose symptoms termi- nating in death. The disease named by various authors Nervous and Simple Apoplexy is occasionally observed in persons labouring under steatosis of the kidney. 2. In the chest. Bronchitis. Emphysema of the lungs. Pneu- monia and anasarca .pulmomtrn; .tuberculation and VQ1W-G& .ofJJvw lungs. Pleurisy, terminating sometimes in empyema. Hydrotho-