PATHOLOGY OF METASTATIC ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. 871 the aid of various accessory causes; viz. the size of the liver, the softness and vascularity of its structure, and the slowness with which its blood moves through the organ.* It is impossible to deny, that the single fact of proving suppura- tion of the liver in other circumstances besides those after injuries of the head, was one great step in the inquiry; and to refer the process to the absorbing powers of the lymphatic vessels was an- other. It showed at once that hepatic suppuration might take place in the course of suppurative processes in other parts of the body. It is singular, that, in this respect, the memoir of Curtet has been so much neglected. Dissatisfied with the whole of these accounts of the connection of these two phenomena, Richerand brought forward a different view, first, in 1803, and afterwards in 1815. According to this author, the large size and the weight of the liver are the main cause of its ecoming the seat of suppuration in consequence of injuries of the head. The weight of this gland, between three and four pounds, is so considerable, that it exercises on the diaphragm great tension, which causes inconvenience and pain unless counteracted. The liver also, from its size, weight, and the looseness of its tissue, void of fibres or plates, is easily lacerated by slight violence; and, of all the or- gans, is next to the brain most exposed to the effects of concussions and shocks, as in falls from some height. In illustration, he gives two cases; and conversely one, in which after a blow on the head, causing fracture and fatal inflammation ot the brain, the liver was quite sound.f Not satisfied with this evidence, Richerand tried experimentally the effect of throwing dead bodies from a height of eighteen feet above the ground on the pavement below. By precipitating in this manner more than forty dead bodies, he found that the brain and he liver were always more or less injured; that in some cases the lattci presented deep lacerations; that heavy bodies presented the most severe injuries ; and that while fractures of all k“d £ Observations et Reflexions sur les Depots fontmnA .. particulierement a la suite des Lesions traumatiques ParTr ^ F°ie’ deSante a l’Hopital Militaire de Bruxelles, &c. Ac Ac’tes del ^ °fficier Chirurgie, et Pharmacie ctablie a Bruxelles Tome i 9' 3 S°Clete de M«lecine, 8. 1800. p. ,93. mxeiies, lome i. 2ieme parhe. A Bruxelles, An. + Nongraphic et Therapeutique Chirureicales p a,. r Prof. d’Operations de Chirurgie Ac ('inm.I ! M- Lc Chevalier Richerand, Paris, 1821. Ac. < inquieme edition, Tome iiiieme, p. 70-75.