941 GANGRENE OF THE KIDNEY. pelvis, or the top of the ureter, causes at the same time suppurative and adhesive inflammation, proceeding gradually to the surface, where it forms a prominent tumour, red, painful, soft, and fluctu- ating, and, either a spontaneous opening taking place or after an incision, matter is discharged, and not unusually with that one or more urinary calculi, or sabulous matter and urine. The swelling subsides after the first discharge of matter; but the aperture evinces no disposition to close, and matter continues to be discharged for months or years, while a long sinus or fistula leading to the kidney is maintained. It is then a renal fistula, discharging matter, and sometimes urine and sand, or urinary concretions. If the opening happen to become closed, much pain is produced, and all the for- mer symptoms of nephritis ensue, until fresh suppuration takes place, and the aperture is reopened. Hence Lassus,* Monteggia,f Boyer, j and other surgeons, recommend that the fistula be kept open by a bougie, a cannula, prepared sponge, or a bit of charpie, in short, bv some dilating body. As m most of the cases now specified, the local disorder of the kidney, if it do not prove immediately fatal, gives rise to more or less hectic fever, with wasting and loss of strength. The condition ol tne system thus induced was early designated by the name of renal consumption, (phthisis renalis% This name, though retain- e y Hildenbrand and several moderns, is not proper, because it is liable to lead to confusion; since the term phthisis is no longer general, but has been by most modern nosologists restricted to the particular form of wasting which depends on tubercular destruc- tion ol the lungs. A more convenient appellation would be tabes renalis. § 6. Gangrene.—The question whether renal inflammation ever terminates in gangrene has been proposed by Chomel. Fabricius Gildanus mentions that in his own son. a boy of 9, lie found the kidneys and neighbouring parts inflamed and degenerated into gangrene ; and Chopart records the case of a person of 62 who died on the ninth day of symptoms of nephritis, in whose body he found the kidneys bulky livid, mottled with blackish spots, and easily lacerable. In neither of the* eases does the pathologist re- Pathologie Chirurgicale, i. xxvii. p. ] 03. t Istituzione Chirurgiche. i Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, T. viii. p 505 50B § Jac. Fabricii, Disputatio de Phthisi Renali. ' Giessa-, 1*699.