925 GALL-STONES AND TIIEIR EFFECTS. circumstances what course this inflammation is to take, what textures it will affect, and by what channel the concretion will finally proceed. The suppurative process may then be either confined more or less strictly to the tissues immediately concerned, as the gall-bladder, the cystic duct, the hepatic duct, or common duct, or two of these at once according to the position of the concretion, and the cellular substance of the capsule of Glisson and the duodenum; or it may extend to a larger portion of the intestines, and even by ulceration and adhesion to the parietes of the abdomen themselves. The latter result is most likely to happen when the concretion is in the gall-bladder, the fundus or base of which is very near the abdomi- nal muscles. Yet there is no assurance that the same course may not be followed when the concretion is in the cystic or common duct, or even in the hepatic duct. In the first case, the concretion is discharged into the cavity of the intestines,—viz. the duode- num, the ileum, or the transverse arch of the colon. In the latter, it is almost uniformly expelled by an ulcerated opening through the abdominal parietes. The reason which induces me to think that these concretions may pass into the intestinal canal by means of ulceration, is found in such cases as that given by Tyson of an abscess in the liver, in which gall-stones were found in the gall-bladder, the ductus cysticus, common duct and in the porus biliarius, or hepatic duct;* a case mentioned by Walter (at page 126), in which he infers that the gall-bladder must have been inflamed and suppurated, forming around it a pouch or sac, connected with the transverse arch of the colon ;f that already mentioned at page 867 of this work ; and that given by Dr Scott, in which the patient died during inflammation of the gall-bladder, caused by the presence of a concretion as large as an olive; and which, had life been prolonged, must have found its way by ulceration into the: intestines or to the surface of the body.+ 3. The latter appears to be the mode of exit most common in a great number of stones in i, A. M., &c. Oxon. Phil. t Anatomisches Museum Gesammelt von Johan Gottlieb Walter. Berlin, 1796. ■I occasioned b, the in-itc-