INFLAMMATION OF TIIE LIVER. 859 ually red, and may be hardened a little, but beyond this the glan- dular substance is healthy. In some instances the hepatic sub- stance is destroyed or entirely removed at one spot or over a great extent, and the purulent fluid is contained in a sac formed by the peritoneal coat. The quantity of purulent fluid varies from one to seven pounds, the most usual quantity being about two or three pounds. At the same the contiguous hepatic substance is denser, laiger, and heavier, and weighs, exclusive of the purulent matter, from one to three pounds more than in the healthy state it would do. 1 his increase in bulk and weight is occasioned partly by blood in its capillary system, partly by new products from the blood, causing swelling or enlargement of the organ. When a considerable abscess of one or both lobes has formed death generally takes place very quickly, apparently in conse- quence of the feebleness and waste of vital power induced by a violent disease. If, however, life is protracted a little, the pur- ulent collection increases in size, and finds its way to the surface o t e organ. Ulceration of the peritoneal covering takes place at one or more points, and the contents escape by the openings. An abscess may in this manner be discharged; 1st, into the abdo- minal cavity; 2d through the diaphragm into the air-cells and bronch\l 3d> by the adhesive Process into some part of the intestinal canal, the stomach transverse arch of the colon, or even the duo- ' Twu4^’ I'7 the Same F°Cess t0 the outer surface of the body. . When the matter escapes into the abdominal cavity, it pro- duces 'mmedmte peritoneal inflammation, generally terminating at m Mb ! ermmf0n 18 m0St USUal when ‘he abscess is seated about the posterior inferior surface, and the acute margin of the gland Inis is believed to be a rare termination.* L If the collection be seated about the upper surface and right bv Jl ^ °rf16 V6r’ diaPhraSm? and lungs become united by adhesive inflammation, and the matter passes into the air-cells hT 'infatal c 6uC^d ^ eXPectoration witb frequent cougli- g. Inl fatal cases the hepatic portion of such an abscess presents d Wide hollow, to the margin of which the I , 1 , am firmly attached ; the muscular structure ! U'" »<! to the extent of the ulcerated surfaceTndth.l ‘S f U ed, and void of creniLHmn qn • . ’ d tlle IlinSs are harden- a short time Thffl ,"S ‘ermmatiol‘ »generally fatal in short time. The symptoms become complicated with those of Hie Rang Selcctu Diani Huvniensis Tom ii r. «r i “ A ™e * M, Macmillan