ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 83 lial iliacs, the branches of the humeral, and those of the femoial, form angles more or less acute with each other. The angle which the spermatics make is, generally speaking, the most acute in the arterial system. It is convenient to distinguish the branches and divisions of the arterial system into different classes or orders, according to their size and their proximity to, or distance from, the heart. Though the arterial system may be considered as one single artery divided and subdivided into a multiplicity of branches and twigs, yet in re- ference to the communications between the latter, they may be dis- tinguished into the following orders. First order, the aorta and innominata; the second order, the common carotid arteries, the subclavian arteries, and the common iliac arteries; the third order, the external and internal carotid arteries, the axillary arteries, the external and internal iliac arte- ries ; the fourth order, the brachial arteries, the femoral arteries, and the sacromedian arteries; the branches of the subclavian and ax- illary trunks, as the vertebrals, transverse cervicals, scapular arte- ries, the pelvic and other branches of the posterior and anterior iliac arteries; the fifth order, the superficial and deep brachial ar- teries, the radial and ulnar, the superficial and deep femoral arte- ries, the popliteal, the anterior tibial, and posterior tibial, and the peroneal arteries; and the sixth order, all other small vessels be- neath the size and capacity of those already specified. This division is useful in reference to the phenomena of obstruc- tion of arteries, and the means and channels by which the incon- veniences of obstruction are compensated. It will be seen after- wards that obliteration or contraction of vessels of the fourth, fifth, and sixth orders, and obstruction of their canals, are evils much less serious and important than contraction or obliteration of vessels of the first, second, and third orders. In short, the functions of ar- teries in the first, second, and third orders of vessels are in this re- spect more necessary and indispensable than in the three last or- ders of vessels. Hemorrhage, also, from the first two or three or- ders of vessels is much more dangerous than from the fourth, and from the fourth than from the fifth or sixth. ' I have already alluded to the structure of the arterial tissue at the di\ciiications. These changes relate both to the inner and to the proper membrane. In the inside of the vessel, the inner mem-