677 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. of the stomach, may extend to the cellular. But that it commences in the cellular appears at present to be a questionable statement, which requires the confirmation of further inquiries. Scarpa, though not aware of the exact character of areolai 01 i colloid cancer, shows, nevertheless, that he had seen every reason, from preparations and specimens of the disease, to infer, that it ■ commences in and affects the mucous membrane.* In short, areolar, alveolar, or colloid cancer, is to be distinguish- ied from the other forms of this morbid deposit, both by its physical and anatomical characters, by its arrangement, and by the tissues which it affects. In physical aspect it is semihard, elastic, like stiff isinglass solution. In internal structure it is cellular. And lastly, it is, if not exclusively confined to the stomach, much more common in that than in any other organ. d. A fourth form in which cancerous disease attacks the mucous tissues is that of lardaceous degeneration. In certain regions, in- deed, this is so rare that it is never seen. For example, though not very frequent in the gastro-enteric mucous membrane, it has 1 been observed in the oesophagus and rectum. It is not known in the tracheo-bronchial membrane. In the uterus, however, it is very common; and I have seen several instances in which the neck and part of the body of this organ was converted into a ceromatous and apparently inorganic mass. The decomposition of this morbid de- position is peculiar. It terminates not in ulceration, but in a species of softening and pulpy disorganization or liquefaction, rendering the decomposing surface doughy or pasty like soft lard, traversed by marks of erosion similar to those produced by the gnawing of animals. § 4. Warty excrescences are occasionally found in mucous mem- branes. They consist of hard eminences often fissured, sometimes sessile with broad base, occasionally peduncular, and occasionally pass into bad ulceration. They are most frequent in the pharyn- geal and cesophageal, and in the cystic and uterine membrane. § 5. Fungous growths or excrescences are mentioned as occa- sionally found in the mucous tissues ; but little accurate informa- tion is given regarding them. They are frequent in the bladder * “ Scirrhus and cancer of the stomach,” he says, “ always begins with induration of the internal mucous membrane of the organ, which becomes thick, hard, cartila- ginous, then ulcerates ; and from the inner coat the disease is propagated to the other membranes of the stomach, which are converted into scirrhus, and cancerous hardness, with ulceration.” Memoria Sullo Scirro et mil Cancro. Opuscoli di Chirurgia di An- tonio Scarpa. Vol. i. Pavia 1825. Folio minore.