GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 668 and discharge blood as in other hemorrhagic injections. This exu- dation taking place either at the uterine surface, or in the substance of the placenta, or in both at once, speedily detaches the placenta from the womb ; the usual supply of blood is interrupted ; and the foetus perishes in consequence. In this sense only can the remark of Leake be well-founded. “ Whatever may be the cause of abor- tion, the effect is produced by a separation of the after-burden from the womb, and consequently, the child, being deprived of nourish- ment, must soon perish and be expelled.”* The difficulty here re- fers to the remote causes, which may be different in different cases. The pathological cause is invariably the same. Febrile <jastro-enteric hemorrhage.—That the black or coffee- ground vomit, (vomito prieto,) and dark-coloured, tar-like, or mo- lasses-like stools, which take place in bad remittents, malignant agues, and yellow fever, consist in hemorrhage from gastro-enteric mucous membrane, is established by the researches of Physick, Dr John Hunter, Bancroft, Jackson, and many other authors. In all cases in which subjects dead of these diseases, under these symp- toms, have been inspected, the same kind of coffee-ground matter has been found in the stomach and intestines, but without breach of the mucous surface. The matter, however, has been traced almost in its formation, in the circumstance of dark blood oozing insensibly from the capillaries of the mucous membrane. Its co- lour is necessarily rendered more intense by the fluids of the gas- tro-enteric surface. This peculiar exudation may be regarded as the result of disorganization of the mucous capillaries, in conse- quence of previous congestion during the febrile action. Not con- fined, however, to the gastro-enteric mucous surface, it occurs in the tracheo-bronchial and genito-urinary. It is observed also oc- sionally in other tissues from the same cause. In short, febrile action either consists in, or is the cause of capillary disorganization in most of the textures. The process of hemorrhagic injection, like that of inflammation, may terminate in suppuration, with or without breach of surface, in induration, and thickening, dependent on chronic inflammation. IV. Inflammatory Stricture.—To thickening as an effect of the inflammatory process, I have already had frequent occasion to allude. This takes place to a small extent in the mucous corion, and to a much greater degree in the submucous filamentous tissue, * Vol. i. p. 1 i 9.