870 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The doctrine of Cheston was long afterwards espoused in a di- vided form by Desault and Richerand. According to Pouteau, on the other hand, who maintained that it was not proved that either the quantity or the velocity of the blood in the superior cava was increased, the impediment to the cir- culation takes place in the arteries. Admitting that after a blow on the head the blood is accumulated in the arteries of the brain, this accumulation extends, he maintains, to the carotid and vertebral arte- ries; and consequently, the blood being resisted in the upper divisions of the arterial system, is accumulated in the abdominal aorta and the rest of the blood-vessels ; while the substance of the liver being soft, and its vessels large and numerous, readily gives way to this new orgasm, and becomes affected by inflammation and suppuration.* Desault rejected both explanations, and confined himself to ad- mitting the fact of a relation unknown, but real, between the brain and the liver, more intimate than between other organs; and the proof of this relation shown by the living body by sickness and vo- miting ; and in the dead body by the formation of abscesses in the gland, f This explanation, or rather statement, of the two facts was long received in the French schools, apparently in consequence of the high reputation of its author, and his commentator Bichat. Curtet, a military surgeon at Brussels, appears first, in 1800, to have doubted the sufficiency of all those hypotheses. Regarding these hepatic collections as secondary or consecutive, he looked for some other cause than any hitherto assigned; and this cause, he believed, he found in the absorbing function of the lymphatic sys- tem. Goursaud, we have seen, had shown that hepatic suppu- ration may follow ordinary suppurating wounds of the extre- mities. Roose, a surgeon at Antwerp, had communicated to the Society of Medicine and Surgery at Brussels, a memoir containing cases of whitloe, in consequence of which abscesses were found in the liver. Rejecting the explanation of this sym-phenomenon given by Roose, but receiving the fact, which he confirms by other two cases, Curtet ascribes the suppuration in the liver to absorption of matter by the lymphatics, and the transport of the same by these vessels to the liver, first, into the thoracic duct, and thence, both by the hepatic artery and portal vein to the gland. He invokes also * Melanges de Chirurgie par M. Claude Pouteau, I). M. et C. A Lyon, 1760. !’• 123 • et Oeuvres Posthumes de M. Pouteau, Tome ii. Paris, 1783. I\ 111- ■f Oeuvres Chirurgicales, 2 tomes. Paris, 1801.