GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 338 of the tubercular deposit. Many others are recorded hy different authors. Thus Rochoux gives an instance of a tubercular tumour in the cerebellum, in all respects similar to those of the lungs.* Dr Powell’s seventh case is an instance of large tubercular masses in the white matter of the right hemisphere.-)- To the same head also belong the clieese-like tumour described by Sir Gilbert Blane;+ the white tubercle represented hy Baillie, (Plate VII. Fascic. 10;) and the instance given hy Coindet in the annular protuberance ;§ the instance of an albuminous mass as large as an egg in the ante- rior lobe of the left hemisphere by Bouillaud; || that recorded by the same author as a steatomatous tumour in the left hemisphere, containing an opaque homogeneous substance like white paste or thick starch, (Vempois blanc, p. 195;) the 76th, 77th, and 78th cases of Dr Abercrombie ; perhaps that of Dr Chambers ;1T a very good instance recorded by M. Piedagnel ;** another by M. Berard in the anterior lobes,ff and perhaps those given by Dr Hooper (Plate XI. Fig. 1.) The physical characters of this form of tubercular deposit are tolerably uniform. Varying in number from one or two to four, five, or six, and in size from that of a pea to a walnut, they consist of opaque white matter, with a tint of pale-yellow, of the consist- ence of soft cheese, sometimes granular, but always without vessel or trace of organic structure. It is chiefly albuminous and friable. In general they are surrounded by a vascular cyst of variable thick- ness. Of the manner of their formation little is known. Several of the cases of Dr Abercrombie would lead to the idea, that the white albuminous matter of the tubercle is deposited in a fluid or semifluid shape, which afterwards undergoes slow coagulation.Jf M. Bouillaud adduces various facts and arguments to show that they are the result or product of an inflammatory process; and, if the idea attached to this term be sufficiently comprehensive, the opinion may not be remote from the truth. The tendency of this process is to produce albuminous secretions or depositions in va- * Reclierches sur l’Apoplexie, Obs. xxxix. p. 151. + Transactions of the College of Physicians, Vol. v. p. 222. + Transactions of a Society, Vol. ii. § Memoire sur l’Hydrencephale, p. 106 and 107. || Traite Clinique et Pathologique, p. 161. *|f Medical and Physical Journal, Vol. lvi. New Series, Vol. i. 1826, p. 5. *1' Journal de Physiologie, Tome iii. p. 247. -H lb. Tome v. p. 17. . . ++ pathological and Practical Researches, &c. Cases 83, 84, and 85, m wmc' 1 cysts contained soft or semifluid albuminous matter, coagulable by heat. Pp. 176-1