ADIPOSE TISSUE. 59 tion of the adipose tissue, presenting the external signs described by my late friend, Dr Duncan, Junior, as those of diffuse inflammation of the cellular membrane. The process then produced all the ef- fects now specified, and, by the peculiar manner in which the in- flammatory process spreads along the meshes of the tissue, detached extensively the skin from the muscles, and the muscles and fascia from each other, and, in consequence of the intricate manner in which it insinuates itself between the muscles and their fasciculi, it produced extensive disjunctive destruction of the different parts which it affected. Thus, on the side of the chest, I have seen it first disjoin, and then kill the fibres of the intercostal muscles, and, affecting the pleura costalis at its muscular surface, pass to the free surface, and give rise to pleurisy and empyema. In the buttock, at the margin of the anus, I have seen it detach the skin com- pletely from the subjacent muscles, dissect round the sphincter and levator ani as completely as if done by the knife, and produce such disjunction and separation as to render the whole of the muscles completely useless as organs of motion. In the course of these destructive processes, this disease, which though first confined with extreme accuracy to the adipose tissue, eventually affects muscles, tendons, blood-vessels, and nerves, by killing and detaching that texture which supports and encloses them, and conveys their nutrient blood-vessels, is ever attend- ed with febrile symptoms, remarkable for their character in de- ranging all the functions, and impairing more or less, sometimes very considerably, the muscular strength. The pulse is rapid, but generally much oppressed, and though sometimes at the commence- ment sharp, is generally contracted, wiry, and even vermicular. The skin is pungently hot and dry; the tongue more or less fur- led, with much thirst; and in severe cases, where the disease as- sumes a violent character, the patient raves or mutters, and some- times passes into a state of typhomania (coma vigil,') or even after- wards coma. The complexion is often of a dingy colour, as it is in typhous fever, or in cases of traumatic gangrene, or in cases of death by animal poisoning; and the eyes, though they may be free from injection, are generally suffused, watery, and turbid. At the same time, almost all the great secretions are more or less com- p etely suspended, or as it were locked up, by the perverted and diminished action of the capillary vessels. The skin is dry and im- pcrspiruble, and only at the termination of the disorder betrays the