58 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. matter when lodged in the adipose than in the cellular membrane. 11 is further remarkable that, while he gives the earliest good de- scription of the phenomena and effects of diffuse or disjunctive in- flammation, he refers the seat of circumscribed inflammation to the adipose membrane, and that of disjunctive inflammation to the cel- lular membrane. The converse of this notion was maintained by J. Hunter, who represents the cellular membrane free from the adipose, to be more susceptible of the adhesive inflammation than the adipose membrane, and much more readily to pass into the suppurative.* This, however, he afterwards in some manner con- troverts by giving the same view of the effects of cellular inflam- mation, as that previously furnished by Bromfield. All that it appears to me can be concluded at present on this subject is, that, though inflammation with tendency to circumscrip- tion may attack the adipose tissue, yet that tissue is much more liable to assume the diffuse, spreading, and disjunctive form of the disease. < Among the proofs adduced in favour of this view may be men- tioned the following. In cases of diffuse inflammation affecting the arm, the inflammation spreads along the adipose membrane, pro- ducing sero-purulent secretion and sloughs of the adipose tissue. In cases of inflammation at the verge of the anus, the disease spreads in the same manner, and affects almost exclusively the adipose tissue round the anus and rectum, and along the glutaei muscles. It is in the same manner that the adipose cushion with which the blood-vessels are surrounded is occasionally the seat of a species of bad inflammatory action, terminating in fetid and sloughing suppuration. I have in a considerable number of instances observed inflamma- * “The cellular membrane, free from the adipose, appears to be more susceptible of the adhesive inflammation than the adipose membrane, and much more readily passes into the suppurative. Whether this arises from surfaces inflaming more readily than other parts, I will not pretend to say. Thus we see that the cellular membrane connecting parts together as muscles, and the cellular membrane connecting the adi- pose to muscles, easily inflames, and runs readily into suppuration, and as it were se- parates the muscles from their lateral connection, and even separates the adipose from the muscles, while the skin and adipose membrane shall only be highly inflamed ; and the matter so formed must produce ulceration through all this adipose membrane to get to the skin, and then through the skin, in which last-mentioned parts it is much more tedious.” (P. 234, iii. 2R2, P. ii. Ch. ii. § 3.) Hunter appears in this place to have confounded the two kinds of inflammation, the adhesive or limited, and diffuse or suppurating.