LYMPHATIC GLAND OR GANGLION. 219 it is sufficient to ascribe the glandular enlargement in such instances to mere irritation at the organic ends of the lymphatics. 2. Enlargement from the Operation of Poisonous Mattel. Pes- tilential Bubo. In plague the glands of the arm-pit and of the groin generally become enlarged as the disease advances. .The period at which this takes place is uncertain, but seems to vary from the first twenty-four hours to the seventh or eighth day. (Russel, de Mertens, Orraeus, &c.) This enlargement, which soon proceeds to a bad open sore, accompanied with sloughing and the discharge of foul, dirty-coloured fluid, has been generally ascribed to the absorption of the pestilential poison, and its direct operation on the glandular system. This is probably in general the true ac- count of the pestilential bubo. As, however, they are almost in- variably accompanied with carbuncles, it is not unlikely that in some instances the bubo may be the result of irritation from the presence of a carbuncle. 3. Enlargement with Death of the Glandular Tissue, a. Stru- mous Mortified Bubo. Of strumous bubo there are many varieties well known to the practical surgeon. To this head, however, I refer a peculiar disease which I have seen in the glands at the bend of the arm. The glands become enlarged, painful, and hard; and, notwithstanding all efforts to procure resolution, the skin first gives way, chiefly by sloughing, and matter wdth some membranous shreds is discharged. A sore of a peculiar character is formed. Its edges consist of skin cut very sharp, and notched or serrated, as it were, into angular slips. From these margins the sore de- scends deep and rather foul to an ash-coloured, solid, convexly- rounded body, which is evidently a diseased gland. Round this the process of suppuration and ulceration proceeds, with the occasional discharge of sloughs, till the gland is expelled either in fragments or in a mass. After which the hollow is filled with granulations, and cicatrization is easily effected. This process is attended with pain at first in the skin chiefly, but afterwards it seems to cause no more uneasiness than an ordinary abscess. Its duration varies according to the size and number of the glands to be ejected. In the most distinct cases which I have seen, it occupied between three and four months. This disorder I regard as arising from a gland being suddenly smitten, as it were, with death in its intimate structure, from previous disease of its membranous capsule and proper vessels. I have seen it only in