780 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. (her portal or arterial, and revelient vessels. In all cases there is an intermediate network of very minute capillaries, that is, vessels all of the same diameter, and all frequently and freely communi- cating with each other. It is therefore a mistake to say that a blood-vessel terminates in a biliferous duct. If this be the case, no one has ever seen it, even by the microscope; and the phenomena which are supposed to prove it, are irregular, or the result of certain fallacies. In 1833, Mr Kiernan published a description of the minute anatomy of the liver. He arrived at the conclusion that each lobule is composed of numerous minute bocfies of a yellowish colour, im- parted to them by contained bile, and of various forms, connected with each other by vessels. These bodies he regards as the acini of Malpighi. Each of these lobules consists of a plexus of biliary ducts, of a venous plexus formed by branches of the portal vein, of a branch of an hepatic vein, and of minute arteries. Nerves and absorbents he did not trace, into them. He showed also that the hepatic veins do not communicate with the branches of the portal vein ; that the interlobular branches of the latter form one conti- nuous plexus through the whole liver; that the portal veins have no direct communication with each other, but anastomose by means of interlobular branches only ; and that the portal vein, accompanied by an artery, resembles an artery in its ramifications.* According to Henle, the microscope shows that the acini of the liver are formed in a quite different way from all other glandular lobules. They are heaps of closely-crowded, and everywhere closed nucleated cells, which entirely fill up the meshes or intervals be- tween the blood-vessels. In a fine section of a hepatic lobule, these nucleated cells are seated without the walls of the blood-vessels, sometimes in irregular heaps, sometimes in irregular short rows close to each other, which, if these transverse divisions be examined, appear like minute blood intestinula. The medium diameter of these cells is about It>b3 parts of a Paris line; the nucleus is usually round, compressed, somewhat flat, from T(f<joO0 to parts of a Paris line in diame- ter, with one or two nucleated granules. By the mutual pressure of the cells on each other they become polygonal, tetrahedral, or * Anatomy and Physiology of the Liver. By Francis Kiernan, Esy. 4to* London, 1834. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London for L>3 ,