9 DIVISION OF THE TEXTURES. ( Articular ends of movable bones. 10. Cartilaginous. Articular surfaces of immovable bones. ( Ribs, Larynx, Nasal Partition, &c. Periosteum. f o - 9 £ n3 o § Ph X W P o § S o s ^3 r-H +-> 0) Hj A-> rS O 2 0 o *o © ■ ptl Proper Fibrous Membranes. Fibrous Sheaths. Aponeuroses. Tendons. Dura Mater. Sclerotic. Albuginea. v Membrane of Kidneys, Spleen, &c. I Scapulo-humeral articulation. Fibrous Capsules, j ]];0-femoral articulation. I l Palms of hand and foot. ) Partial. j Flexor tendon8. ( General. Annular ligaments. Enveloping. i a. By broad surface. Inserted. < /2 Arched. ( y By isolated fibres. Simple. „ Compound. ( Regularly fasciculated. Ligaments. ^ irregularly fasciculated. § o A A 9 Membranous. Fibro-cartilages of the ' Ears. ) Nose, i Trachea. ' Eyelids. j Interarticular, those of the knee-joint, lower jaw. (Intervertebral fibrocartilages. Articular. _ Tendinous. 13 and 14. (a Animal life, all the voluntary muscles. Muscular. / b Organic life, e. g. heart, stomach, and intestines. 15. Mucous, comprehending the gastro-pulmonary mucous surface, and genito- urinary mucous surface. 16. Serous, comprehending the arachnoid membrane, pleura, pericardium, perito- naeum, and vaginal coat. 17. Synovial. 18. Glandular, comprehending the secreting glands only. 19. Dermoid or Cutaneous. 20. Epidermoid or Cuticular. 21. Pilous or Hairy. These different forms of animal substance he considers as the organic elements, or proximate principles, to use the language of chemistry, into which animal bodies may be resolved. These ele- mentary tissues he again refers to two great orders,—one general- ly distributed and everywhere present, so as to form an integrant part of every other animal substance. To this order, which he termed general or generating systems, he referred cellular mem- brane, arterial and venous tissue, the nerves, and the exhalants and absorbents. The substances of the second kind, which are placed in determinate situations, and confined to particular regions, con- sist of the bones, cartilages, fibrous substances, muscles, and muscular parts, the mucous, serous, and synovial membranes, glandular organs, the skin and its appendages, the nails, hair, &c.