573 TRACHEOBRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. into the submucous cellular tissue. Often the epiglottis becomes much thickened. Its investing membrane is always reddened and rough. After some time ulceration may take place in the epiglottis, and destroy the top or anterior extremity of it. This I have ob- served several times; the round apex of the epiglottis being cut off as it were transversely by ulceration. In other instances, it is merely rendered thick, rigid, and inflexible, so that it no longer, when the tongue is depressed, covers accurately the upper aperture of the larynx. Other appearances are the following. The lower or true vocal chords become thickened. The membrane forming the ventri- cles of the larynx (sacculi laryngis,) is thickened, and occasion- ally presents minute ulcers of the surface. The apices of the arytenoid membranes are red, thickened, and abraded or ulcerated; and sometimes this ulceration descends to the subjacent cartilages or their perichondrial covering. Constantly the perichondrium, when the disease lasts any time or has recurred several times, is thickened and rendered rough. Even when the ulcers of the mucous membrane have been healed, the membrane itself remains much thickened, rough, and sometimes irregular by tubercular growths; and the perichondrium of the cartilages is thick, soft, and easily detached. In this state the diseased action is liable to spread to the carti- lages, rendering them thick, painful, and sometimes producing ulceration, and occasionally imperfect ossification. In one or more points ulceration takes place generally in oval patches, which spread and become deep, affecting the submucous tissue and the perichondrium. The ulcers which were previously an effect, become now a cause of inflammation, and obstinately resist- ing all tendency to heal, continue to spread with chronic inflamma- tion, and give rise to more or less wasting with hectic fever. This constitutes the disease described under the name of laryngeal con- sumption ; (phthisis laryngaea.) (Cayol.) In some instances suppuration of the submucous filamentous tissue takes place previous to ulceration of the membrane; and though, by affecting the perichondrium on the one side, and the laryngeal mucous membrane on the other, it may cause the same chronic process as that now described, it is generally a milder and more sanable disease. In others it spreads to the cartilages, and by inducing ulceration