23 FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. blood, is forthwith eliminated. Its chief purpose seems to be to afford a convenient vehicle for ridding the system of superfluous azote, and to maintain the due proportion between this and the other ultimate principles, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The fluids which fulfil a purpose in the economy are regarded as secretory, and are re- markable for a predominance of alkali; those which do not, are excrementitial, and are generally acid. Bile, the secreted product of the liver, may be regarded as a choleate of soda with taurine; both containing sulphur. Urine may be regarded as urea suspended or dissolved in water. Urea is the peculiar and characteristic element of the secretion. It contains also a little uric acid, which is probably produced from the urea, as it can scarcely be said to be a constituent of healthy urine. The other ingredients are saline matters common to the blood and the urine, or complementary between these fluids. The density of healthy urine varies from 1015 to 1033, water being as 1000; and the average, as determined from the examina- tion of the urine in fifty instances of persons in good health, is at the highest 1.026, and at the lowest 1017. The general average, therefore, amounts to 1022. If it be stated between 1022 and 1026 it cannot be far wrong. This is understood while the quantity dis- charged daily is from 45 to 53 ounces, which is about the general average in healthy individuals who consume liquids at the ordinary rate. This density above that of water urine owes to the presence ol urea and saline matters. If the urea and saline matters be in- creased, the density of the urine is increased; and if they be di- minished, the density of the urine is also diminished. It may be here observed that urea is the form which the elements of the fibro-albuminous parts of the blood assume after these fibro- albuminous have been employed in repairing the waste of the tissues. If we compare the proximate chemical principles of al- bumen with those of urea, we shall see that the latter are the com- plement of the former. Thus .,, Hydrogen. Carbon. Oxygen. Azote. Albumen consists of 7.77 50.00 26.66 15.55 Urea consists of . 6.66 20.00 26.66 46.66 Thus while albumen and urea contain the same proportion of oxy- gen, the former contains one-seventh more hydrogen, three-fifths more carbon, and one-third less azote. It is known that the former proportions are employed in repairing the waste of the albuminous tissues, especially the muscular system, and while carbon and oxy-