676 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. perhaps of no great moment. It may be merely observed, that while the fibro-cartilaginous form of scirrhus is common in the ex- ternal glands, as the mamma, lacrymal gland, salivary glands, and testicle, tubercular scirrhus is usually seen in the skin and in certain parts of the mucous membranes, as the oesophagus, cardia, pylorus, and rectum; and, according to Scarpa, the uterine end of the vagina and the os uteri itself. c. Reticular, Areolar, Alveolar, and Colloid Cancer.—A third form in which cancer may attack the mucous surfaces is that which is named reticular and areolar, from its disposition, and colloid or glue-like from its aspect. The general characters of this species of degeneration are a tumour affecting a considerable portion of the stomach, most commonly the anterior and posterior portions of the large arch of the organ ; and in some instances the cardiac portion both anteriorly and posteriorly. It does not seem often to commence in the pyloric portion ; but it may extend from the car- diac or the middle region of the organ to thq pylorus. The tumour is firm, of cartilaginous consistence, and when inspected at the mucous surface of the stomach presents the aspect of a solution of isinglass which has become coagulated, with a sort of honey-comb, or reticular surface like network. The colour is generally light- gray or pearl-like. The structure cuts firm. The morbid structure affects primarily, and principally, it appears to me, the mucous membrane of the stomach; and this areolar or colloid form of cancer is more frequently observed in this organ than in any other, or in any other texture. It consists apparently in the infiltration of this colloid or gelatiniform matter into the in- terstitial spaces of the mucous membrane. It renders the stomach thick and hard. The thickness varies from one-fourth of an inch to half an inch, and to three quarters. When divided, the morbid , structure appears like a hard or tough solution of firm jelly 01 isinglass, with numerous communicating cells. In general this deposit is confined to the mucous membrane; and the muscular coat is pale, hard,thicker than natural, with developed fibres, and in a state of hypertrophy. Several authorities, and espe- cially Cruveilhier, state that the muscular coat is also affected by this deposit. But the statement appears not to be confirmed. It is also said that this deposit affects primarily the cellular tissue of the stomach. Such appears to be the opinion of Breschet, An- dral and Raikem. This appears to be still more doubtful than the previous statement. The deposit, originating in the mucous coat