986 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. patization, while the middle lobe is only reddened and infiltrated with serum, sero-sanguine fluid, or blood,1 and the upper lobe is comparatively healthy. The centre of the lung, also, especially op- posite to the lower angle of the scapula, is often the seat of inflam- mation. Inflammation may take place in one lung or in both ; and in the same manner it begins first, and attains its greatest intensity in the lower lobes of both. In the former case, it is said to be sim- ple ; in the latter, it is double pneumonia. It is not easy to esti- mate the comparative prevalence of pneumonia in either lung, or in both; but from the attempts made, it appears that pneumonia of the right lung is more common than in the left, in the ratio of more than two to one, and that single pneumonia is more common than double pneumonia in the ratio of six to one.* It must not be imagined, however, that inflammation is always seated in the lower part of the lung. Morgagni, Frank, and Brous- sais often found the upper part of the lung inflamed. In the sum- mer of 1837, I found, in the body of a woman who had died rather suddenly, the upper part of both lungs in a most complete state of gray hepatization; and in several cases-since that time, I have found the upper parts of the lungs affected with pneumonia in va- rious degrees, while the lower was in comparative soundness. 1 be same occurrence is admitted by Andral, who allows that it is not uncommon, and by Chomel, whose experience leads him to regard it as frequent. Pneumonic inflammation may terminate in resolution; effusion of blood or simple hepatization; effusion of blood and lymph or granular hepatization ; and suppuration ; or it may become chronic, and ter- minate in mixed hepatization ; or it may terminate in gangrene. It is very important to observe with regard to gray hepatization, that persons labouring under it die apparently very unexpectedly, if not suddenly. These persons have perhaps been only in a sort of general ill-health, when all of a sudden they are attacked with great difficulty in breathing and extreme weakness, and in this state die, or even without this preliminary difficult breathing, they suddenly fall down and are found dead. Though this shows that the disease is chronic in progress, yet * Of 210 cases of pneumonia, 121 were in the right lung, 58 in the left, 2j double and 6 not ascertained. Among 75 cases given by M. Jules Pelletan,m 58 inflamma tion was in one lung, in 17 in both at once ; in the right the disease occurred 42 times i in the left 16 times ; in the base of the lung 24 times ; in the apex 7 times ; a ou 24 times. Memoire Statistique in Mcmoires de l’Acadcmie, Tome vuueme aris,