456 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. tudinally, the medullary membrane is swelled and very vascular, loaded with blood and serum, and presenting in various points drops of purulent matter. The veins of the limb are inflamed ; and their coats are thicken- ed and sometimes obliterated. Tlje arteries are denuded, brittle, and present traces of having partaken in the general inflammatory orgasm. This form of nekrosis appears very similar to an attack of diffuse inflammation of the adipose and filamentous tissue^; and I have occasionally entertained doubts whether it ought not to be regarded as such primarily, or as general inflammation of the soft parts af- fecting eventually and necessarily the bone. It also presents some resemblance to inflammation of the blood-vessels, and especially of the veins. The point is practically of little moment. The bone is killed; whether primarily or secondarily appears of little conse- quence, unless we could thereby discover some means by which an action so destructive might be stayed in its progress. An important question presents itself: to determine what is the anatomico-pathological cause of nekrosis ; which is the texture con- cerned in its production ; whether it be always one and the same texture, or whether, in different cases and different forms of the disease, different textures are concerned. This question it seems difficult to determine. All that is already known tends to show that nekrosis may be the effect of previous disease of the perioste- um, previous disease in the medullary membrane or in both, or of the whole of the soft parts investing the bone. The rest may be understood from what follows. Nekrosis interna.—That the medullary web of the cylindrical bones is liable to inflammation is a well established point. The ten- dency of this is not so well understood. It may proceed either tc suppuration, forming a collection of matter within the cavity of the bone; or by producing effusion within the interstices of the medullary web it may, by causing induration and swelling, induce expapsion of the walls of the diaphysis; or by destroying the medullary mem- brane, it may kill the bone from within outwards. That inflammation of the medullary web causes swelling and ef- fusion into its interstices may be regarded as established by the phenomena of fractures, simple and compound, and especially by those experiments in which this texture is expressly injured. When it proceeds without being resolved, it may cause a uniform expan-