MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS—PNEUMONIA. 985 been macerated or well washed, the section presents a granular compact aspect like the section of the lung in red consolidation. But it is more varied; the substance of the lung is more thoroughly destroyed or disguised, and the lung is softer and more lacerable. In some instances the portions of lung present a sort of tubercular induration, that is, hardened masses, bluish-gray or gray in colour, and of irregular form, interspersed among whitish-gray softened por- tions. In other instances, gray portions, firm, yet lacerable, are interspersed among reddish portions. It is impossible to doubt, that these changes depend partly on blood infiltrated and changed, and in a greater degree on lymph, and purulent matter infiltrated into the filamento-cellular tissue. Various products also, as blood, liquor sanguinis, and lymph, are poured into the air-cells and obliterate them. It is sup- posed by some that this causes the appearance of whitish granules in the lung affected by gray hepatization. It may do so; but the infil- tration of this matter takes place also into the filamento-cellular tis- sue ; and while the presence of one set of granules may depend on the foi mer cause, that of another, it appears to me, depends on the latter. In short, there are effused blood-corpuscles; liquor sanguinis or plasma, afterwards formed into granules; and pus-globules all at the same time and in the same tissue. The blood-corpuscles after some time undergo changes in colour, and hence arise the bluish-gray greenish, and reddish brown or orange colours of the parts affected. h The changes now specified may come on rather gradually and insidiously, without very great disorder in the breathing, until the greater part of one or both lungs is destroyed by consolidation The disease, if it do not begin in, certainly affects mostly the substance of the lung, that is the filamento-cellular parenchyma; and alono- with this it involves the pulmonic air-cells, which are filled with blood and obliterated. From the substance, it affects eventually the ■pleura which is covered with lymph recent and soft, or firm In seve ral instances which have come under my own observation, the pa .cuts did not complain of uneasiness or disorder until the vleur'a began to be inflamed. In general death was then not remote, and took place in the course of a few days. Inflammation usually commences in the lower part of the Inn- and generally attain* there its greatest intensity. Thus, the whole of the lower lobe may be in a state of extensive induration and he-