SEROUS MEMBRANE.—SEROUS EFFUSIONS. § 9. The second general head of secretions, or those termed se- rous, have been long received as the distinctive character of the dis- orders named dropsies ; {Hy dr opes.) To the influence of inflammation or capillary injection in causing effusion, extravasation, or secretion of serum, I have already in part alluded. In no texture is this more conspicuous than in the serous or transparent. The mechanism of this process it is perhaps not very easy to explain satisfactorily, unless hy referring it to the same principles to which I have already referred, the ordinary al- buminous and purulent exudations. 1 shall attempt, however, to state as briefly as possible the ascertained facts which tend to esta- blish the general conclusion,—that inordinate accumulation of se- rous fluid from the free surface of the diaphanous membranes is a frequent result of a process of capillary congestion, or even of in- flammation. I have already stated that the serous membranes in general are understood to be the seat of a process of incessant exhalation and resorption. This may be regarded as demonstrated in the case ol the pleura, pericardium, peritonaeum, and perididymis, by the ex- periments of Haller, Bichat, and others; and of the arachnoid, the same as presumed from analogy. The fluid thus secreted, though in the healthy state very scanty, is distinctly albuminous. This may be regarded as demonstrated by the rude experiments even of Hewson and Bichat. The difficulty in the healthy state of obtain- ing a quantity sufficient for analysis led Berzelius to examine that of hydrocephalus, which he supposes makes a nearer approach to the normal condition than the others; and of this he found 1000 parts to contain 1.66 of albuminous matter, with salts of potass and soda, and some animal matter combined with lactate of soda.* This result is confirmed hy the researches of Bostock and Marcet, which show that though some muco-extractive matter is present, albumen forms the chief part of the solid contents of the serum of the blood and the fluids of the serous membranes. Lastly, Mar- cet, who examined all the dropsical fluids, found that they contain coagulable matter ; hut that those of the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum, contain much more than the arachnoid, and that of hydrocele most of all.f The inordinate augmentation of these fluids varies in degree, ’ General Views of the Composition of Animal Fluids. By J. Berzelius, M. D., &c. Med.-Chir. Transactions, Vol. iii. 251. t Medieo-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. ii. p. 381.