695 SEROUS MEMBRANE. of the dura mater and the pellucid membrane ; and the latter is thus so intimately united with the former, that it is difficult, it not impossible, by the ordinary means, to detach them. . This, howevei, is no more a reason for regarding this pellucid pellicle as the same as the dura mater, than the intimate adhesion of the capsular peri- cardium to its fibrous coat, or of the peritonaeum to the female ovaries, is for regarding the membranes as part of these 01 gans. Immersion in boiling water and maceration produce on this surface of the dura mater the same effects as on the free surface of the pia mater. Lastly, the phenomena of morbid processes indicate that these surfaces are in all respects similar; and if the thin pellicle on the free surface of the pia mater is entitled to separate existence, that on the free surface of the dura mater is equally so. The continuity of these two divisions, demonstrated by their con- figuration, affords proofs of the same description. This is most easily accomplished by tracing the dura mater from those points at which it adheres to the inner surface of the cranium, to those at which the several nerves issue from that cavity by the cranial holes. If the optic nerves be attentively examined at the spot where they enter the optic foramina, the dura mater, which covers the bone around these holes, is found to go a very short distance into them, to stop suddenly, and be reflected backwards, in anatomical lan- guage, to cover the nervous trunks, and to extend along the pia mater. This reflected portion is in truth the arachnoid membrane which lines the dura mater, passing from it along the nervous chords to form the free surface of the pia mater. In like manner, if the third pair or oculo-muscular, or fifth or tergeminal nerves be exa- mined at the openings at which they perforate the skull, the dura mater is found adhering firmly round their several margins to the bone by its outer or attached surface, while its inner free surface turns back on the nervous chords, and is thence continued over the pia mater. In short, the continuity of this thin transparent mem- brane from the dura mater to the pia mater may be traced at each of the nervous trunks as they issue from the brain through the cranial apertures. Another proof of a similar description is derived from examin- ing the free or lower margins of the falx major and minor, and of the horizontal portion of the dura mater,- (tentorium cerebelK). First, at the upper or convex margin of the great falx, where the veins pass from the pia mater to the longitudinal sinus, it is not dif-