977 MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. throughout. The only other circumstance is, that at two lines from the termination, it looks as if perforated by many small de- pressions, which it had not previously presented. Small apertures leading into small ultimate branches are likewise seen more and more near to each other.* The general correctness of this description is strongly confirmed by the phenomena of obliteration of the bronchial tubes. Bourgery made known to the Academy first in 1836, and after- wards in 1842, the results of researches on the minute structure of the lungs, of which the following is a summary. To every minute lobule of the lung is sent one central bronchial tube, which pro- ceeds to the peripheral basis of the lobule, and is distributed with progressive ramification to the terminal ends of the same. During this course, the central stem sends within the lobule alternately, radiating in all directions, subordinate shoots, which are to be con- sidered as terminal branches of the proper air-tube tree, and which Bourgery denominates ramified bronchial canals. Beyond these commences, according to M. Bourgery, the capillary air-sucking system. Each ramified bronchial canal ends in a small, irregular, winding, elongated dilatation, which is sometimes two-lobuled or three-lobuled. These are bounded, in their course and in their di- latations, by walls perforated in a sieve-like fashion by small orifices by which the branched and ramified bronchial tree, as an iuferent and efferent apparatus, is connected with those parts of the lungs which are to be viewed as the proper functional substance. This part forms a labyrinth of tubes expanded in three directions, which are distributed in a tortuous course along the windings of the vessels observe a proportional diameter, and at their ends also, as in the lateral walls, communicate with each other by many orifices.f Dr Thomas Addison maintains the existence of a collection of cells in which a filiform bronchial tube terminates. Mr William Addison gave in 1842 an account of the results of various researches which he had made by the aid of the microscone on the distribution of the endsof the bronchial tubes, and arrived at the conclusion that these tubes do not end in closed sacs; and that after dividing into numerous minute branches, which take their * Memoire sur 1’Oblitcration des Bronches • nnr A r ^ moires de l Academie Royale dc Medecine, T. iv. p. i 15! Pam" 1835.' /to «tte Medicate, 1*42, Tom/*. N. 20. » . 1842,) by J. M. Bourgery. Ga- 3 Q