GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 678 of the inale (Lecat, Sandifort, Baillie, Walter, &c.) and the uterus of the female, but appear to be more rare in other regions. It is probable that these excrescences named fungous, are in truth the products of an advanced stage of some organic change either al- ready noticed or to be noticed. In the uterus, for instance, authors mention the occurrence of reddish tumours not unlike masses of clotted blood, which are manifestly either molce, or fungus hcema- todes, or some of the products of cancerous ulceration. In other in- stances, as in the bladder, these fungous growths actually issue from the mucous membrane in a morbid state, sometimes the effect of chronic inflammation, or are the result of enlarged prostate. Upon the whole, accurate facts are wanting on this head. ยง 6. Though hydatids are enumerated by some authors among the morbid products of mucous surfaces, it is not easy to understand, without violation of certain pathological principles supposed to be well-established, the reason of their development in these situations. Thus, hydatids have been stated to be coughed up from the lungs, to be voided from the intestines, and to have escaped from the ute- rus. In the case of the lungs, they are formed originally in the pleura or pulmonic tissue, from which they find their way to the bronchial membrane; or they may escape from the liver through the diaphragm ; (Dr Foart Simmons, Dr Monro.) In the case of the intestines, they are also in all probability formed in the liver or the peritoneum, and thence proceed by ulceration into the intestinal cavity. The uterus, in short, is the only cavity with mucous sur- face, in which inspection shows that they have been found.* Ty- son, nevertheless, states that he found them in the bladder.f ยง 7. Deposition of bony matter in certain of the mucous surfaces is mentioned by various authorities. Thus Metzger records an in- stance of ossification of the oesophagus W alter one of bony deposition in the inner surface of the pharynx ;ยง De Haen mentions an osseous degeneration of the stomach ;|| Shortli and others mention similar deposits in the colon and rectum ; and Hody,** Lettsom,tf Baillie, Odier,and Mackie}+ mention examples * Gregorini Dissert. Morgagni, Epist. xlviii. 13, 14. Portal, Anatomie Medicale, Tome v. p. 527,528. Rudolphi gives the best account of Hydatids affecting the ute- rus and other organs. Ueber die Hydatiden thierischer Korper, in Anatomisch-Physio- logische Abhandlungen. Berlin, 1802. P.190. | Phil. Trans. No. 188. + Adversaria Medica, p. 176 and 177. g Catalogi Mus. No. 1536. II Rat. Med. Tom. iv. cap. i. \ Ed. Med. Essays, Vol. iv. 353. ** Phil. Trans. No. 440. -)-+ Mem. Med. Society, Vol. v. ++ Med. and Phvs. Journal.