GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 402 the right side was destroyed and converted into purulent matter, forming a sac extending from the last lumbar vertebra along the surface of the ilium to the small trochanter.* Three similar cases described by Mr Ilowship form the clearest account of the anato- mical characters of this disease.f In such instances, since there is either no affection, or at least no primary affection, of the bones of the spine, it must be inferred that the disease consists in sup- purative inflammation either of the muscular tissue, or at least of the filamentous tissue of the muscles. The structure of these muscles, especially that of the psoas, is greatly more delicate than that of any other large muscle, and may have some influence in the destructive sero-purulent secretion which follows. Is the muscular texture de- stroyed or merely separated ? I have seen discharged along with the fluid of lumbar abscess capillary filaments, brownish, firm, and evidently the remains of the muscular fibres. At the same time, in the dissections above quoted, no fibres are mentioned in the purulent cyst. In a case by Mr Milroy fibres are stated to have been discharged. The acute form of muscular inflammation is more rare, but some- times occurs in the muscles of the abdomen, of the chest, of the thigh or leg, in persons of broken constitution and diseased habits. By some authors, however, the muscular fibre is believed to be in- capable of inflammation; and the instances ascribed to it are by them said to be inflammation of the intermuscular cellular tissue. On this head, I refer to the section on Diffuse Inflammation of the Cellular Membrane. (3. Carditis.—Another example of inflammation of muscular tissue is presented in that of the heart. The testimony of Dr Baillie shows that this is a rare disease, and is almost never primary, but the result of inflammation of the pericardium, from which it spreads to the filamentous tissue, and partly to the muscular fibres of the organ. The general accuracy of this statement is confirmed by Laennec, who contends, that though partial inflammation in minute spots is not uncommon, yet general inflammation of the cardiac substance, either acute or chronic, is a thing almost unknown in the records of medicine. The cases adduced by Corvisart he regards as examples of pericarditis; and the same may be said of those o * Francisci Schoenmezel, Med. Prof. Heidelbergensis Observatio de Musculis Ps°a et Iliaco suppuratis. Ileidelbergoc, 1776. Frank Delectus, Vol. V. p. 169. -J- Practical Observations on Surgery and Morbid Anatomy.