530 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. terior surface of the trunk which the pustules occupy. They then appear in the form of oblong ovoidal tubercles, with the long dia- meter corresponding to the axis of the body. There also they are slow in progress. It is possible by a glass, sometimes by the eye, to recognize the orifice of the follicle closed; and the follicle swelled and enlarged all round. In general these swellings undergo slow and partial suppuration ; and in some severe cases, the follicle is mortified and ejected by suppuration, like a part deprived of life. Both the simple and indurated whelk may produce ulcerative destruction of the true skin, and leave a smooth depressed scar; and I have seen them by extending to the roots of the hairs ren- der the skin entirely depilous. The black whelk (Acne punctata), doubtless arises from disease and obstruction of the mucous follicles, or sebaceous glands. Demodex Folliculorum. Follicular worm.—A singular circum- stance relating to the sebaceous follicles of the face and their dis- eases, is the fact that they become the residence of a peculiar spe- cies of parasitical animal or worm, not dissimilar in appearance to the grub of a common fly. The existence of this animal in the sebaceous follicles of the face was first discovered in 1842 by Dr Simon of Berlin ;* and since that time it has been repeatedly seen by observers in this city, and is fully described by Mr Owen. The animal belongs to the lowest organized forms of the order Arachnida; and like the parasitic Cymothoe and Bopyrus of the Crustaceous class, makes a transition from the Annelides to the higher Articulata. In length the animal, which has been named the Demodex folliculorum, ranges from one-fiftieth to one-hundredth part of one inch. The head and mouth are confluent with the ab- domen. The thoracic appendages, eight in number, as in the Ar- ticulata, are simple and rudimental, and are terminated by three short setae. The integument of the abdomen is minutely annulat- ed. The mouth is suctorial and proboscidiform. The entozoon occupies the hair follicles and the sebaceous follicles.f e. The crimson whelk (A. rosacea, rjutta rosea ; dartre pustuleuse couperose of Alibert), is an affection rather complicated; and I doubt whether it is justly classed with those now mentioned. It is doubtless an affection of the corial substance; but it commences * Muller’s Archiv fur Physiologie. Berlin, 1842. P.218. f Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Invertebrate Ani- mals. By Richard Owen, Esq. &c. London, 1843.