general and pathological anatomy. 47 fi brane of the epiphyses. The last circumstance, nevertheless, is of small moment. The main fact to be attended to is, that the arti- cular ends of the small bones of the extremities are liable to be- come denuded of their membranous coverings, to be rough and softened on their surface, to be swelled, and discharge a bloody, serous matter, and that no tendency to eject the diseased portion in mass is exhibited; while minute atoms of the bone are removed by ulceration and carried away in the discharges. This disease may originate either in the synovial membrane of the articulation, and proceed thence to the subjacent cancellated tissue of the bone, or, beginning in the medullary membrane of the cancellated tissue, it proceeds outwards to the synovial membrane, which is affected with secondary inflammation and ulceration. This sort of disorder may affect any articulation in the whole body. But those, in which it is most usually observed, are the ar- ticular surfaces of the carpal and tarsal bones, the articular ends of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, and those of the phalanges of the fingers and toes. A considerable number of examples of the disease in the bones of the wrist, metacarpus, and fingers, I have seen in young females; and I think, that in them it is more frequent than in males. The first indication of the approach and presence of the disease is swelling, generally of a puffy character, over the joint attacked. Pain is also felt; and the surface is in general hot and red. The disease, however, whether originating in the medullary tissue or in the synovial membrane, proceeds so rapidly and insidiously, that often the whole articular end of one bone, if not both of those of the articulation, is stripped of its covering, rough, and irregular, before the true nature of the malady is suspected. The cancelli thus attacked are softened and reddened; and the part immediately affected is manifestly enlarged. In cases where opportu- nities of inspecting the bones have been afforded, they are found denuded of synovial membrane, cartilage, and periosteum. Then- exposed surface is rendered irregular by numerous holes or cavities varying in size; and from which is seen issuing a reddish or brown- coloured sero-purulent matter, with which also the cancelli or lattice- work of the bone is filled. The whole of this destruction is occasioned most commonly by inflammation of the cancellated medullary membrane, in some in- stances by that of the synovial membrane. Yet, notwithstanding the nature of the parts affected, recoveries are occasionally observed