903 CONCRETIONS OF TIIE DUCTS. in the right hypochondriac and epigastric region, which is uniform, smooth, and emits a dull sound on percussion, while pain is often considerable in the epigastric region.* § 13. Concretions in the Ducts.—Under certain circum- stances the ducts of the liver are filled more or less completely with concretions, which appear to be either bile, or that product in a state passing to the formation of biliary concretions. Concretions may be formed in any part of the course of the secreting and excreting apparatus of the liver; l.s£, in the upper or terminal ends of the pori or small ducts; 2d, in the middle sized ducts which form the hepatic duct; 3d, in the hepatic duct; 4th, in the gall-bladder; 5tli, in the cystic duct; and, 6th, in the common duct. In the first-mentioned situation, these concretions are, so far as t is known, less common than in the others. Cruveilhier gives a very good instance of them in the fourth plate, book xii. of his col- ! lection, f These concretions appear under the aspect of grains of a deep green colour, irregular in shape and size, disseminated through the sound structure of the gland, the yellow colour of which forms a strong contrast with that of the grass-green colour of these bodies. No information is given as to the chemical nature of these bodies; but from their colour, it may be inferred that they are nearly pure bile. The glandular substance of the liver ap- pears of a deeper yellow colour than natural; a condition probably to be ascribed to the obstruction in the ducts preventing the bile from descending. In some livers, especially in those of children, tubercular bodies are occasionally found disseminated in minute grains through the substance of the liver. These grains are deposited in the terminal portions of the ducts; and it is the opinion of Cruveilhier that they are the result of the formation now mentioned, namely, biliary concretions. The ducts in which these bodies are thus formed are usually dilated into cysts; while the ducts below these dilated portions may be entirely obliterated. It seems not unlikely that this obliteration of these ducts may have been caused by inflamma- tion at some previous period, and that this obliteration may thus Einigcs zur Pathologic unci Pathologisthen Anatomie tier Leber Von J F II Albers, Professor cler Medizin in Bonn. Rust’s Magazin fur die Oesammte lied' kunde, 53 Band, 3 Heft, Seite 511. Berlin, If!3,9. + Anatomie Pathologique, Livraison xii. Planch 4. Paris, 1828-1033.