GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 510 adults appears in situations in which the papilla* are few, as regu- larly and abundantly as in those in which they are numerous; and that we meet with local examples of papular eruption in which it is difficult to suppose the disease to be an affection of the papillm of one region of the skin only. For these reasons it may be justly doubted whether in all instances papular eruptions consist in in- flammation of the papillae. Of the anatomical characters of pimples, little is accurately known. They are not diseases necessarily fatal; and when death takes place during their presence, their distinctive characters are either much changed, or entirely gone before the anatomist can inspect them. In some instances of strophulus in infants cut off by other diseases, I have seen the corion rough and slightly raised in irregular spots, which were the seat of closely-set pimples during life. ยง 4. Cutaneous inflammation of the outer surface of the corion, more or less circumscribed, affecting its secreting power, and thus produc- ing first, exfoliation of the scarf-skin, afterwards vitiated scarf-skin. Though the scarf-skin (cuticula, epidermis,) and nails are inca- pable of injection, and are therefore believed to be inorganic, the former is remarked to be more sensible, when thin and semitrans- parent, than when thick and opaque, which it may be in certain regions. It is also observed, that when it is removed by a blister, or the effect of a scald, the surface of the corion, M'hen it ceases to discharge the sero-albuminous fluid already noticed, becomes covered by a thin pellicle of transparent membrane, so delicate, that it affords very little defence to the subjacent skin. This same transparent pellicle is observed in the skinning or cicatrization, as it is named, of cutaneous wounds. If, under these circumstances, the formation of this pellicle be observed, it will be found that it is deposited from the outer or cuticular surface of the corion, like a secreted substance in a viscid or semifluid state, and afterwards be- coming hard, dry, and semitransparent. When the first and thin- nest pellicle is formed, the outer surface of the corion, which in the healthy state never suspends its secreting function, continues to de- posit more of the semifluid, viscid matter, which in like manna, but more slowly, becomes firm; and as successive depositions con tinue to be formed beneath that last secreted, the cuticle in its perfect state consists of successive layers of matter secreted ft ora the outer surface of the corion. It is not to be imagined, nevci-