CEPHALIC MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 569 nasal extremity of each eyelid, termed lacrymal (punctum lacry- mnle), forms the upper or palpebral end of this canal; and its in- ferior or nasal extremity is a considerable opening in the lower nasal passage, between the lower spongy bone. This canal is lined by a fibro-mucous membrane, the free surface ot which is moisten- ed by a thin semitransparent, glairy fluid, not like the mucus of the nasal or tracheal membrane, but merely viscid enough to facilitate the descent of the tears, and to maintain a free communication be- tween the eyelids and nostrils. This membrane may be inflamed in any part of its course, especially at the palpebral extremity; and the swelling attendant on this process in a canal so narrow produces a temporary obstruction to the transmission of the tears,—consti- tuting the simple and acute form of the watery eye or epiphora. In ordinary circumstances this terminates in resolution, and the canal again becomes pervious in a few days. In more severe cases, however, either in consequence of thickening of the fibro-mucous membrane, or the effusion of albuminous fluid, the obstruction is more permanent; and if not seasonably removed, may induce se- condary inflammation of the parietes of the canal, and ulceration and false openings; (Jistulce.) In all cases the inflammatory pro- cess may affect the subjacent periosteum of the lacrymal, nasal, and superior maxillary bones, and induce caries in one or more of them. With or without this latter complication, the disease constitutes la- crymal Jistula. In either mode it is sometimes the result of syphi- lis, and very often where mercury has been given for the treatment of that disease. Similar disease of the lacrymal duct may take place in conse- quence of previous chronic inflammation of the eyelids and Meibo- mian glands. The mucous membrane of the nasal passages is inflamed in Co- ryza,—an affection forming the preliminary part of catarrh. A secondary coryza occurs in nasal polypus; and ozama, which con- sists in chronic suppurative inflammation of the nasal membrane lining the nasal and covering the spongy bones, is always preceded by similar inflammation. The same process is not unfrequent in the fibro-mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus, in which it ge- nerally proceeds to’suppuration, forming abscess of that cavity. § 3. Otitis.—The membrane of the external auditory passage is, strictly speaking, neither skin nor mucous membrane, but a tex- ture intermediate between both. In its morbid relations it is, how-