457 BONE. sion of the bone, which very often precedes the extinction of its vi- tality. Thus in most of the instances of the incipient stage of nekrosis, a local enlargement, or rather dilatation of the bone, takes place, while the bone, though its texture is softened, is still alive. This is the process which Scarpa distinguishes under the name of expan- sion, and in which he imagines the reticular structure to be relax- ed or unfolded. The fact is well established, but the explanation is gratuitous. It is doubtless the early stage of the process which terminates in nekrosis. Suppuration in the cavity of the long bones, which was seen by Cheselden, (p. 40), Gooch, (Yol. II. p. 357,) Hey, (p. 26 and 32,) and others, is generally a process so severe as to cause death by constitutional irritation. If it fails to effect this, it first distends and softens the bone, and then kills it from within outwards, in- ducing nekrosis. This may affect either part or the whole of the diaphysis, which is then separated from the periosteum and epiphy- sis, which is rarely killed. In process of time the dead portion or portions (ramenta,) become enclosed more or less completely by a thick shapeless cylinder of new bone, with or without openings in its sides, and which is placed between the epiphyses and covered by the periosteum, which is much thickened. If death take place at this period, the bone thus formed is found to contain the origi- nal shaft, loose and dead. If life be still prolonged, the old bone generally piecemeal is gradually brought to the surface through the openings in the new osseous case and expelled. The fragments thus discharged, which are of a dirty, yellow, drab, or black colour, and somewhat corroded or worm-eaten at the ends and margins, are named sequestra by Troja,* David,f and other French surgeons; and ramenta by Weidmann. The channels or openings through which they are expelled, which are temporary deficiencies in the new bone, are termed cloaca?. J The above is a brief description of the process of nekrosis with regeneration, as it occurs in the cylindrical bones. Its effects were known long before its mechanism was understood. The fact of portions of the cylindrical bones of the extremities being removed or expelled without impairing the motion of the limb, and of one * De Novorum ossium regeneratione exp. Paris, 1775. ' f Observations sur une Maladie connue sous le nom de Necrose. Paris, 1702. $ .1. Petr. Weidmann, M. D., &c. De Necrosi Ossium. Francofurti ad Mrenum. 17.93. Folio.