NATURE OF KIRRHOSIS. 895 jecture that kirrhosis depends on local dissimilar hypertrophy of the interlobular or interacinous connecting tissue.”* I mention the hypothesis of Muller in this place, because, though not published till 1843, it appears that it had been taught by the author previously. Meanwhile Becquerel adduced in April 1840, a view which has always appeared to me more consonant with the facts, and which, in truth, I had myself maintained before the appearance of the essay of that author. Becquerel maintains that in kirrhosis the only tissue primarily affected is the yellow substance of the liver; that this yellow sub- stance, which he should have called the glandular tissue, is infil- trated with plastic or albumino-fibrous yellow matter, quite similar to the false membranes of the serous tissues ; that from this results hypertrophy of the yellow substance of the liver ; and that from this hypertrophy arises at first compression, and subsequently atrophy of the greatest part of the red or interlobular substance. He further thinks, that, though it is difficult to speak positively on the cause of the infiltration of this yellow matter in the glandular tissue of the liver, yet most probably it is the result of repeated vascular congestions. | It is impossible to doubt that this makes the nearest approach to the correct explanation or the phenomena; and as it is that which I have for several years been in the habit of teaching in demon- sti ations and lectuies,!f I go not hesitate to add a few words in further explanation. It has been formerly shown, that the hepatic substance consists of three separate elementary tissues ; a red, or vascular ; an orange or glandular ; and a gray or filamentous. The vascular tissue consists of the capillary or minute vessels of the hepatic artery, portal vein, and the origins of the hepatic veins. This constitutes, in the healthy liver, and especially in early life, the largest proportion of the gland. Disseminated through this capillary network, which forms the * Uberden Bau der Leber. Amnerkungzur Vorstehenden Abhandlung von IJeraus- geber. Archiv fur Anatomie. Jahrgang. 1843. Berlin. P. 343 + Recherches Anatomico-Pathologiques sur la Cirrhdse' du ’ Foie Par Alfred Becquerel. Archives Generates de Medecine. Tome lii. Avril 1840. P 398 et 407 the* tr°atCd dUn'nB tllC Course of Cli™al Lectures delivered at t m SeSSI°n I832’1833- % David Craigie, M. D. F. R. S E &c Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xli. p. ] 12-118. Edinburgh 1834 '