GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 482 chest, nearly as if at the period, when they were soft, flexible, and capable of taking all shapes and curvatures, they had been com- pressed from one side to the other, as is done in killing pigeons, by placing the fingers beneath the wings and compressing the sides of the chest. This deformity is so considerable in some children that it is possible to embrace both sides of the chest'with the fingers of the same hand. The transverse diameter of the chest is dimi- nished from one-fourth to one-tlnrd, or even one-half, while the antero-posterior and vertical diameters are in a similar rate increased. This change in the natural figure and dimensions of the bony walls of the chest exerts great and hurtful effects on the functions of the contained organs. Respiration is habitually short and oppress- ed, with inexpressible anxiety and anguish, and threatening suffo- cation ; the infant cannot suck; afterwards speech is short, inter- rupted, and panting. The motions of the heart are oppressed, con- strained, and irregular. Sleep is disturbed, noisy, and accompanied with great labour in breathing; while the sufferers lie with the mouth open. Their repose is often interrupted by frightful dreams. Of the anatomical state of the bones M. Dupuytren says, that M. Breschet only recognized some retardation in the development of the skeleton, disjunction of the bones of the cranium at a period at which these bones should normally have been united, persistence of the epiphyses, or swelling of the extremities of the cylindrical bones, sundry torsions of their diaphyses, and little consistence in their tissue, so that they were sectile rather than fragile, and re- sembled bones softened by immersion in weak nitric acid. Denti- tion was retarded; the teeth of the first or second dentition altered the crown eroded, partly destroyed, and furrowed on their anterior surface. The most remarkable circumstance in the internal and soft or- gans observed by Dupuytren in this sort of deformity, is the swel- ling of the tonsils, with which it is almost invariably attended. These glands are often so much enlarged as seriously to impede respiration, and require to be partly or wholly resected.* The lungs are depressed towards the vertebral column; and ge- nerally bear on their surface the impression of the ribs. The * Memoiresur la Depression Lateralc des Parois de la Poitrine. Par M. le Baron Dupuytren. Repertoire Generale d’Anatomie et de Physiologie, Tome Vquieme, p- 110. Paris, 1828. Leqons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, &c. Tome Imier. Deuxieme edi Paris, 1829. Article ix. p. 182.