STEATOSIS OR GRANULAR DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY. 95? liable to a peculiar form of the inflammatory process, which may neither be sufficiently rapid to proceed speedily to the disorganiza- tion of the kidney, nor sufficiently violent to evince its presence by well-marked symptoms. That the process, whatever it may be, is chronic, may be inferred from two circumstances. The first is the fact, that the disease is often observed to have existed for months or even years without giving rise to any marked external symptom, excepting occasional diarrhoea, and sometimes attacks of rheumatic pain ; and its existence is never suspected until some new symptom renders it requisite to examine the urine, which is then found to contain serous fluid. Rarely, indeed, do patients apply for assist- ance in the commencement of this distemper; and it is only when a train of long-continued bad health has prevailed for some time, or a smart attack of acute disease has come on, that the case be- comes known in its true characters. The second circumstance, showing the disease to be most commonly chronic, is, that when its true characters have become known by various unequivocal symp- toms, it does not proceed very rapidly to the fatal termination. Some patients remain under the dropsical symptoms even for months, and eventually recover from them, though the primary disease may not be cured. That the process is of the nature of vascular injection, afflux, and inflammation, seems to be highly probable, from the following cir- cumstances. The appearances in the kidneys are analogous if not similar to those which are found in other glandular organs when the seat of the congestive and inflammatory process. The dark- brown colour, the increased size, and the loaded state of the vas- cular system of the renal cortical matter in the early stage, are suf- ficiently indicative of a congestive state to justify the inference, that the cortical tissue is unduly loaded with blood, which, as in all con- gested and inflamed organs, moves at first slowly, next accumulates, and then stagnates in the vessels. In those stages, which may be placed after the very first, the vascular pits on the surface of the kidney, with the asteroid clusters of vessels, if not to be regarded as indicative of an inflammatory process, show a great derangement in circulation, which is caused either by the new deposit compres- sing certain vessels, or by some similar obstruction. This process, nevertheless, seems to be peculiar in this respect, that it causes ab- sorption, or at least forms hollows in the cortical portion of the gland. The elevations, according to Dr Johnson, consist each of