GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 576 being no longer held down by the raucous membrane uniting with those of the opposite side. This man, like many persons under laryngeal disease, had been previously subjected to several courses of mercurial medicines. In another case I saw an ulcer of the trachea take place under peculiar circumstances. A female between 40 and 45 years of age was affected with chronic laryngitis ; and over this was super-induced an acute at- tack so intense, that immediate suffocation was threatened. For relieving her sufferings and averting the fatal termination, it was deemed necessary to perform the operation of laryngotomy or tra- cheotomy. This was accordingly done with very beneficial results, the breathing being much relieved, and the urgent symptoms of suffocation in the meantime removed. The tube was inserted and kept in the wound for about three weeks or longer, being with- drawn only to cleanse the wound, and remove mucus and purulent matter. About this time it was recommended to the patient to try to breathe without the tube; but she found that this was impracticable. Meanwhile the same course was pursued for about three weeks longer, during which the patient did not appear to be recovering the power of breathing through the larynx. Uneasiness and sore- ness were felt in the windpipe; and this it was natural to ascribe to the wound. After some days longer of struggling, irritation, distress and agony, the patient suddenly expired. The laryngeal membrane was red, thickened, rough, and irregu- lar ; and when the abundant mucus was removed, minute ab- rasions were observed. The chords, both superior and inferior, were thickened and swelled. The wound was healthy and granulating, though slowly and irregularly. At the posterior surface of the trachea, about one inch and a-half below the cricoid cartilage, a large elliptical ulcerated destruction of the mucous membrane had taken place. The edges and outlines of this were irregular. The long diameter corresponded to the axis of the trachea. In some parts this ulcer was deep, almost proceeding through to the oeso- phagus ; in others it was more superficial. The ulcerated extremi- ties of the cartilaginous rings were, however, exposed in the same manner, and prominent, as in the case last mentioned; and gave the ulcer the same ragged appearance. This large ulcer corresponded so accurately to the extremity of