88 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. canal of the tube. This process takes place in all circumstances in which the corresponding surfaces of the vessel are mutually applied, while the current of blood through the vessel is interrupted. The pressure of a tourniquet, or any mechanical object moderately firm ; the pressure of a tumour, or of an aneurism in some instances; the application of a ligature not so tight as to divide the coats; and in the case of small vessels, the spontaneous retraction and collapse of its sides after complete division by a cutting instrument, are conditions which have been followed by adhesion and obliteration of the canal. On the knowledge of this property depends the practice of tying arterial tubes in wounds, and in the cure of aneu- rism. Inflammation of the internal arterial membrane may also take place spontaneously, or independent of mechanical causes. Thus the inner membrane of the aorta may be inflamed in persons labour- ing under general or severe inflammation of the thoracic viscera, (Portal, Hodgson.) The anatomical characters are deep red colour of the membrane, and more or less effusion of lymph within the cavity of the vessel. If the individual survives such a disease, the lymph thus effused becomes penetrated with blood-vessels, and forms a new body ad- hering to the inner surface of the vessel. This is the origin of several of the granulated bodies, fungous growths, or vegetations, which have been described by Senac, Morgagni, Portal, Baillie, Corvisart, Burns, and Bertin, as often found at the origin of the aorta, attached to the semilunar valves, or even on the mitral valve, the structure of which is not dissimilar. A red or crimson staining of the inner membrane, especially in the aorta, has been mentioned by Corvisart, Frank, Hodgson, and Laennec, and may be often seen in persons who have died without symptoms of pectoral or arterial disorder. Its nature is not well known. It seems to be the effect of a dyeing or tinging property of the blood, either during the last moments of life, or after the heart has ceased to beat. It must not be confounded with inflam- mation or its effects. 2. Arteritis Diffusa. It has been believed that an extended or diffuse attack of inflammation might take place over several divisions of the arterial system simultaneously and successively; and the ex- istence of such a disease has been maintained by Red, and the two Franks. The only unequivocal facts in proof of such a disease, however, have been given by Thomson and Meli. In the case ob-