GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 972 § 1. Frostatopyema.—Suppuration within the ducts, or sup- puration of the mucous membrane of the ducts, is a disease of stru- mous character. The whole mucous membrane, from their outlets into the urethra upwards to their remote extremities, is inflamed, secretes lymph, and a foul imperfectly formed purulent matter, which does not easily escape, but remaining, as it is increased by fresh secreted matter, distends and enlarges the ducts into small or middle-sized cavities, with narrow outlets. A prostate gland in this state is large, bulging, and elastic-compressible, as if containing fluid, and lobulated on the surface; and when divided by incision, it appears, as if it consisted of several distinct encysted abscesses. These apparent abscesses are formed by the ducts of the gland distended and enlarged by purulent matter and lymph. When the matter is removed, the epithelial membrane of the ducts is observed lined with lymph, yet not in a state of ulceration. The surface is indeed unbroken. This disease may take place at any period of life, but is most common in strumous subjects between the ages of 20 and 30. It causes great disorder of the general health, occasionally hec- tic, and peculiar depression of spirits. § 2. Chronic Enlargement and Hypertrophy.—This may affect either one lobe, or both, or part of both. The substance of the gland is enlarged, firm, and greatly more crowded with veins and arteries than usual. The veins are distended, enlarged, and varicose. Blood and lymph is infiltrated into the substance of the gland ; and eventually, if the process be not arrested or stop spon- taneously, either one or two abscesses are formed; or the pros- tatic substance becomes extremely hard, dark-coloured, and almost cartilaginous; while its original structure can no longer be recog- nized. The substance of the gland shows whitish specks and lines, which are manifestly lymph effused. When the prostate gland is in this state it is liable to two morbid actions. One is a secretion of ropy viscid, almost puriform mucus from the ducts of the gland, and occasionally the purulent collec- • tions within these ducts noticed under the last head. The other is a discharge of blood from the vessels of the gland more or less " copious. The latter is caused by the previous distended state of the vessels, and the pressure exerted on them by the enlarged and condensed parenchyma of the gland. Similar enlargement may affect the third lobe of the prostate gland.