169 ERECTILE TTSSUE. CHAPTER VIII. erectile tissue,—( Vasa Erigentia,— Vascula Ereciilia, Tissu Erectile. Section I. The peculiar arrangement of vessels constituting the erectile tissue was very early anticipated by our countryman William Cowper, who states, that he demonstrated the direct communication of arterial and venous canals, not only in the lungs, but in the spleen and penis, “ in which,” says he, ‘‘ I have found these com- munications more open than in other parts.”* The system of capillary arteries and veins does not present the same arrangement in all situations or in all the tissues of the human body. Among the terminations of arteries enumerated by Haller, one which he referred to the head of exhalants was that of a red artery or arteries pouring their blood into the spongy or cellular structure of the cavernous bodies of the nipple, the clitoris, and the penis, that of the wattles of the turkey, and the comb of the cock.f His detailed examination of these parts shows, that, with a correct knowledge of their anatomical structure, he had not a very distinct conception of the manner in which their vesels are dis- posed. Bichat remarked that the spleen and the cavernous body of the penis, instead of presenting, as the serous surfaces, a vascular or capillary net-work, ([reseau vasculaire,) in which the blood oscillates in different directions according to the impulse which it receives, exhibit only spongy or lamellar tissues, still little known in their structure, in which the blood appears often to stagnate instead of moving. As this peculiar structure was known in the cavernous body to be the seat of a motion long known by the name of erec- tion, MM. Dupuytren and Richerand distinguished this arrange- ment of arteries and veins as a peculiar tissue, under the name of erectile,—a distinction which, though partly understood before, nas only now been admitted as well-founded in the writings of anatomical authors. According to the arrangements of M. Bec- lard, this tissue comprehends not only the structure of the ca- Philosophical Transactions, Vol. XXIII. No. 285, p. 1386. 1703. + Elementa, Lib. ii. sect. 1. sect. 24. III. p. 102.