1062 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. One word only have I to add on the probable mechanism of such cases of aneurismal cyst as that which occurred to myself. The septum at its base becomes very thin; and if it he carefully dissected or boiled, it is found that, at the base, its muscular fibres, gradually attenuated, are stopped by cellular tissue, and that on the base, as it were, is fixed that part of the heart containing the two auricles and the commencement of the pulmonary artery and aorta. If, therefore, by any morbid action, the base of the septum were rendered fragile or brittle, or its cohesion with the auricular part of the heart were weakened or destroyed, it is not difficult to un- derstand that it might be thus detached, and gradually made to give way and form an aneurismal sac at its base. Though it is doubtful whether abscess is the cause of this lesion, I think various facts show that chronic inflammation is the main predisposing cause of its origin. In the first place, the disease takes place in persons rheumatic or gouty, or who have had rheu- matism ; and in whom often the endocardium is or has been inflam- ed. In the second place, the effect of inflammation, it has been shown, on the muscular tissue is to destroy its elasticity, to render it brittle and easily lacerable, and sometimes to soften it. If there- fore inflammation were attacking either the endocardium and spread- ing to the muscular fibres, or were attacking the latter from the first, it is easy to see that it might cause in an organ so liable to distension and in action so incessant, laceration. In the third place, we find the lesion preceded or accompanied by various changes in different textures of the heart, which are generally regarded as ef- fects of chronic inflammation. § 9. Atrophy. Steatosis.—The muscular fibres are pale, or yellow-coloured, soft, flaccid, and lacerable. The organ is small and shrunk, and collapses. Fat-globules and cholesterine are infil- trated into the cylinders of the muscular fibres. § 10. Malformations.—These must be mentioned very shortly. The most important are those which cause the communication of the right and left chambers, or the venous and arterial sides of the heart; with various degrees of that blue or violet colour of the skin, called Kyanosis. These are the following. ls£, The foramen ovale or aperture of Botallus, more or less open, sometimes forming a large and direct communication between the auricles. 2d, The septum cordis being deficient, or open, or perforated, congenital, or acquired; or the