BRAIN. 237 segment of it is seen, when the cerebellum is examined from above. Its anterior or inner boundary is marked by a curvilinear furrow of moderate depth, by which it is separated from the slender lobe, and the posterior end of which terminates, not in the purse-shaped notch, but, after a sigmoid turn towards the laminar pyramid,* is insensibly lost among a cluster of transverse plates, which shall be afterwards noticed. Immediately anterior to this is found the slender lobe, (il lobo sottile, Malacarne ; Der zarte Lappen, Reil;) which is not above three lines broad, and being contained between two concentric fur- rows, is not unlike the segment intercepted by the truncated arcs of two small circles of a sphere. The space of the hemispheric surface within the slender lobe, or between this and the peduncle or arm, is inclosed by three circular lines, two of which, the exterior and interior, correspond to so many furrows; while the third, which is anterior, is formed by the hori- zontal or marginal furrow. The space thus inclosed is similar to a spherical triangle, and is occupied by a group of plates which Malacarne denominates the biventral lobe, (der Zwey-bauchige Lap- pen, Reil.) Its contiguity with the cerebral end of the pneumo- gastric nerve led Vicq-D’Azyr to give it the name of the lobule of the eighth pair, (lobule du nerf vague ;) and its situation at the pos- terior corner of the peduncle, and under that body, is the reason why it was called sub-peduncular lobule by Dr Gordon. Of these plates the arrangement is peculiar, since they are neither so ex- actly concentric as in the other lobes; nor yet is their direction different from each other. The plates at its outer margin are the largest, as they extend the whole length from the marginal furrow to the end of the slender lobe, at which, however, they are con- tracted to a narrow point. The next set are shorter, and are more contracted or acuminated at their posterior end, where they are contiguous to the almonds or tonsils. The third and last set are the shortest, and are more twisted down, as it were, next the al- monds. These contracted or acuminated ends of the cerebellic plates are named {code,) tails by Malacarne. The disposition now described renders the posterior corner of the biventral lobe very pointed, and its margin very concave ; and between this margin and the parts which occupy the valley is placed a group of plates somewhat convex, rounded, and disposed also in * Encefalotomia, &c., Artieolo i. No. 20, eel Articolo ix. No. 77. Sec p. 310.