GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. G48 are enlarged, reddened, softened, and not unfrequently the seat of ulcers. Upon this statement, however, some doubt is thrown by Andral, who maintains, that, though these bodies are highly vascu- lar, and pour forth an augmented secretion when the mucous mem- brane is inflamed, yet their affording the commencement of intesti- nal ulcers is not an invariable circumstance. I have already endeavoured to explain the circumstances under which follicular inflammation is most likely to take place in fever. It does not seem to be necessarily connected with typhous fever; and, therefore, the fever with which it is seen in connection has been denominated typhoid fever. But it appears to be rather a remit- tent disorder, to be endemic in certain regions and localities, and epidemic in certain seasons. Though the frequency of ulceration of the lower extremity of the ileum is proportional to the number of follicles, ulceration is exceedingly rare in the duodenum, in which they are more nume- rous, larger, and more apparent than in any other part of the gas- tro-enteric membrane. From the observations of Dr Bright, nevertheless, and the facts collected by Frenzel, Stannius, Choinel, Cruveilhier, and Lesser, no doubt can be entertained of the fact, that inflammation and sloughing of the mucous follicles is a frequent cause of ulcers. The comparative frequency of ulcers in different regions of the gastro-enteric surface during fever may he understood from the following table, in which Andral gives the result of 71 necroscopic inspections. Cases. Cases. Ulcers of the Stomach in . 10 Duodenum, . 1 Jejunum, • 9 Lower part of the ileum, . 38 Caecum, 15 Ascending colon, 4 Transverse arch, 11 Descending colon, 3 Rectum, 1 According to this statement, which is on the whole accurate, ulcers are most frequent in the lower end of the ileum, nearly in the proportion of one-half of the cases, next to this in the caecum in about one-fifth of the cases, then in the transverse arch, in the stomach, and in the jejunum. In the ascending and descending colon, they are not very common, and in the duodenum and rectum extremely rare. Their progress and effects are the same as when taking place idiopathically. In some instances of fever, Andral remarked that portions of the