200 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. From the united testimony of these observers, it appears that the blood-cyst (hcematoma,) is a tumour consisting of a membra- nous sac, the inner surface of which is liberally supplied with blood- vessels, from which blood, or a bloody fluid, is incessantly oozing or distilling by exhalation. In some instances this fluid contains a proportion of fibrin sufficient to effect coagulation ; and the in- terior of the cyst then resembles the spleen or a mass of clotted blood. From aneurism it may be distinguished by the following marks ; that it does not throb ; that it contains a fluid ; that it is surrounded by bluish tortuous veins ; and that it is dark or purple- coloured, while the investing skin is transparent. When seated in the neck, however, near the carotid artery, it may derive from it, or from the subclavian, a pulsating motion, which may give it the appearance of aneurism. There is no reason to believe that these tumours are in any way malignant, or of the character of heterologous growths. They seem to be cysts, the inner surface of which secretes either blood or a bloody liquid for some time, until by their size and position they cause inconvenience. When the fluid has been evacuated, the cyst contracts, its opposite walls adhere, and the action ceases. The ordinary locality of luematoma is easily understood from what has been already said. It occurs most usually in the filamen- tous tissue of the arm-pit and neck, in the substance of the thyroid gland, and at the knee. (Monteggia.) Zeller describes it as it appears in the brain of infants, under the name of cephalcernatoma. Dr Hooper has represented an example of what he refers to this head in his tenth engraving. But from the description, the justice of this appears questionable.* It is also mentioned by Dr Monro.f b. Meliceris. An indolent tumour, generally small, with smooth uniform surface, communicating a sense of fluctuation, and con- taining viscid matter of the aspect and consistence of honey. Seated always in the skin or its attached surface, meliceris consists in the enlargement of one of the subcutaneous glands or follicles, arising from obstruction of its excretory duct. The mechanism of its formation from this source was understood by Plenck 1 and Monteggia,§ and was, in 1819, brought under notice by Sir Astley * Morbid Anatomy of the Human Brain, p. 27. -|- Morbid Anatomy of the Brain, p. 56. + Josephi Jacobi Plenck, Novum Systema, Chassis vii. § “ Alcuni cisti si formano per la chiusura del orificio escretore dei follieoli sebacei e mucosi.” Instituzioni Chirurgiche di Ci. B. Monteggia, edizione seconda. Milano,