GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 400 tains fibrin, albumen, gelatine, extractive matter (osmazome,) and saline substances. It is difficult to say how far the gelatine is to be regarded as proper to muscle, or derived from the filamentous tissue, in which it certainly exists. The saline matters are common to muscle with most other organic substances. There is reason to believe that fibrin in considerable quantity, and albumen and osma- zome in smaller proportion, are the proper proximate principles of muscle. Though the various proportions of these principles have been stated in numbers by chemists, there can be no doubt that in the present condition of animal chemistry it is impossible to place on them any reliance. It is also to be remembered, that the relative proportion of the proximate principles varies at different periods of life. In early life the muscular fibre contains a large proportion of gelatine, and very little albumen, fibrin, or osmazome. In adult age, however, the gelatine is very scanty, and the fibrin is abundant. The albumen and gelatine found in muscle seem to he derived chiefly from the filamentous tissue, and the aponeurotic intersections. During life the muscular fibre possesses the property of shorten- ing itself or contracting under certain conditions. These may be referred to the following heads. ls£, The will in the voluntary muscles. 2d, Proper fluids in the involuntary muscles, as the blood to the heart, articles of food or drink in the stomach, chyme in the small intestines, excrement in the large intestines, urine in the blad- der, &c. 3d, Mechanical irritants in all muscles. 4th, Chemical irritants; and, 5th, Morbid products generated in the course of disease. This property of contracting has received various names; con- tractility (vis contractilis of L. Bellini), irritability (Glisson), (vis vitalis of De Gorter and Gaubius), excitability, mobility, vis insita, vis propria of Haller, and the organic contractility of Bichat. It is peculiar to muscular fibre, and is found in no other living tissue. The influence of the brain and nerves over muscular contrac- tion, and the inquiry of the properties peculiar to muscles, form an interesting subject of investigation, on which many facts have been communicated since the time of Haller and Whytt, and especially by Nysten, Le Gallois, Wilson Philip, Brodie, Bell, Magendie, Mayo, Flourens, Fodera, Rolando, and Marshall Hall. But it is too extensive to be considered in this place; and, for information on l