GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 782 In adult serpents, the kidneys consist of many lobules, which are connected in order by the ureter, which passes along the internal margin. The lobules on the flat surface of the kidney are less distinct than those on its convex surface. All the lobules, however are very closely connected. The lobulated appearance, indeed, is the result of the undulated flexures of the renal mass. When the substance, inflected in the undulated fashion, is confined and con- tracted by the ureter, each lobule consists of a convoluted tract, or of a sort of arch, with a median furrow left. Into these median furrows on the one side enter the bundles of the uriniferous ducts; and on the other the blood-vessels. And as the lobules arise by alternating flexures, the bundles of the uriniferous ducts being on the one margin, and the vascular trunks on the opposite one, the former are mostly distributed on the convex surface, and the latter on the plane surface of the kidneys. The kidneys of the crocodile are also lobulated ; but the lobules are not attached in order to the ureter, as in serpents, but are united into an irregular mass, and receive the ureter internally. All the lobules are contorted, and surround the surface with wind- ing gyri. When a kidney is divided transversely on the surface, . through the gyri of the lobules, the section of the lobule or gyrus is pyramidal. This shows that the gyri of the lobules project with an external acute border, and are united internally at their bases, . where they receive the branches of the ureter. The ureter itself appears to be ramified on the deep substance of the kidney, so that the branches pass everywhere into internal gyri, according to the arrangement of the lobules. In Birds at the first period of development, when, besides the heart and the first rudiment of intestine, the other bowels of the trunk are not yet visible, on each side near the vertebral column appears an elongated body, extending from the site of the heart, almost along the whole keel of the embryo. This body observers first mistook for the kidney. Rathke showed, however, that this body is peculiar to the embryon ; that it precedes and prepares for the formation of the testes and ovaries, and then, as the foetus ad- vances in maturity, it becomes shorter, and at the close of foetal life vanishes entirely. These bodies, which were first described by Wolff, and therefore received the name of Wolffian bodies (Corpora Wolffiana), and by Burdach, were called spurious kidneys, consist at first of elongated pedunculated vesicles, which being arranged transversely, issue from one common marginal excretory duct, which