Ill ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. aorta, the largest and most capacious of the three. Through the two former little or no blood flows; through the latter a large quantity flows, almost directly from the right ventricle into the ab- dominal aorta, or that portion of the aorta below the entrance of the ductus arteriosus. At birth and after that event, in consequence of the lungs being developed and subjected to the action of respi- ration, the blood from the right ventricle proceeds along the pul- monary artery and its two divisions, which are now enlarged and daily enlarging, while the third branch, or ductus arteriosus, under- goes rapid contraction. The point at which the duct joins the aorta is fixed, and keeps the aorta there as it were immovable. Meanwhile the walls of the duct, in consequence of little or no blood passing through them, mutually approximate, and at length adhere, produc ing obliteration. The same action may extend into the aorta, the more liable to undergo contraction, that at the very time at which the larffe current of blood is diverted into the two branches of the pulmonary artery, little passing along the ductus arteriosus, little also must flow through this part of the aorta. This action once begun has only to continue. It does not require to be increased. If it continue, while the other parts of the aorta and the arterial system are enlarging, this remains stationary, or in the foetal condition and dimensions. If this only continue, obliteration at that point is the inevitable result. Meanwhile the blood is maintaining its old channels which it pre- served previous to birth, and rendering them larger and more suited to the exigencies of extra-uterine life. The superior and in- ferior intercostal arteries, the transverse cervicals, the mammary above; and below, the epigastric and circumflex arteries of the ilium, with the lumbar arteries, are found very much enlarged, and to have constituted the means of conveying blood from the heart to the inferior portion of the trunk and to the lower extremities. These changes are evidently effected in early life, in short, in in- fancy, and increase with the growth of the individual. The facts now detailed contain a remarkable example of a defect or impediment in the arterial system, which might be inferred, from our knowledge of that system, to be incompatible with the continu- ance of life and the enjoyment of good health. They also show the remarkable provision by which the pernicious effects of so great a lesion arc very nearly, if not completely, obviated and counter- acted. It appears that the lesion has little tendency to abridge the duration of human life; for two persons attained the age of 50 years,