GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 992 sultus tendinum, feebleness of the voice or aphonia, extreme debility of the voluntary motions, great softness and weakness of the pulse, which is also sometimes quick, sometimes natural. In some cases vomiting or hiccup, or both ensue. The surface of the skin presents dark-coloured petechial spots or a miliary eruption, especially on the anterior part of the trunk. Hemorrhages from the nostrils, throat, lungs, stomach, and intestinal tube are liable to take place; the urine is sometimes dark-coloured and bloody; and discharges of blood from the uterus in females are not unusual. The blood, if drawn from a vein, presents in general a loose, soft coagulum, with a small proportion of serum. In a few rare cases the clot is firm. As the symptoms proceed, the delirium or typhomania passes into lethargic sopor; the breathing becomes stertorous, and is attended with general tracheo-bronchial rattling; the pulse be- comes small, and can scarcely be felt; convulsions occasionally ensue; the head, neck, and chest are covered with cold fetid sweats; the extremities become cold, and death follows. Morbid anatomy shows, that this distemper is of the kind deno- minated pleuropneumony, with vesicular bronchitis. Gluge and Vogel however both represent the substance of the lungs to be consolidated with infiltration of dark-coloured blood in patches. The lungs are found gorged with blood, dark-coloured and dense towards the posterior part, not indurated or consolidated, but rather cedematous and doughy. The surface of the lung presents dark livid patches. The pleurae contain sero-sanguine or sero-purulent fluid, with shreds of lymph. Sometimes even the pericardium and the peritoneum present fluids of the same kind, with flocks of lymph. The chambers of the heart also and the large vessels contain large, loose, soft coagula of blood. In some epidemics the intestinal tube contains lumbrici. A state of the lungs very similar to this is observed to take place in persons labouring under sea-scurvy.* § 5. Pneumonia Septica. Gangiuena Pulmonum.—It maybe doubted whether pneumonia ever legitimately terminates in morti- fication or gangrene of the lung ; and there is some reason to think, that, when mortification does take place in these organs, it * Vide Huxham, chapter ii. p. 186, and Henderson, Edinburgh Medical and Sur- gical Journal, vol. iii. p. 10,