general and pathological anatomy. 712 to albuminous exudation ; and though this occurs occasionally, serous effusion is greatly more frequent. The inflammatory origin of this effusion, however, is proved by several circumstances. 1st, The pia mater and choroid plexus are more or less, sometimes highly vascular. The arachnoid is always dry, opaque, dull, and elevated by infiltration into the subjacent tissue. In some instances this infiltrated fluid contains albuminous matter ; and in some patches of lymph are deposited on the free surface of the arachnoid mem- brane. In one of the most distinct cases of this disease which fell under my personal observation, I found the free surface of the cerebral arachnoid adhering to that of the falciform process in the great fissure between the hemispheres by well marked filaments of albuminous exudation. 2d, In the case of violence inflicted on the head, which it is well known has a tendency to induce inflammation, when that inflamma- tion proves fatal, almost invariably we find effusion from the mem- branes, in some cases to a great extent. In proof of this, I prefer referring to the cases of other observers than to such as I have in- spected. In the fatal cases recorded by Pott and Dease the most uniform appearance is water in the ventricles, which evidently pro- ceeds from the choroid plexus, or inner division of the cerebral membrane. In the numerous and well described cases of Schmucher also, this effusion is always one of the changes recorded; and vascu- larity of the pia mater, and dulness of the arachnoid, with subarach- noid infiltration, are frequently remarked. Similar results may be derived from the cases given by Dr Thomson, and from those of Dr Hennen. In short, it may be inferred that traumatic inflam- mation of the cerebral membranes always induces more or less serous effusion. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that this explains a fact observed by most practical physicians, that hydrocephalus is very often ascribed to blows or falls on the head, the tendency of which to induce congestion of the vessels cannot be denied. 3d, To the same purpose it may be said, that the effusion result- ing from the operation of the process of fever, whether intermittent, remittent, or continuous, demonstrates the influence of vascular con- gestion in inducing it. Thus in ague, meningeal effusion is not uncommon ; in remittent it is frequent; and in continued fever it is perhaps the most usual cause of the fatal termination of the disease. The extensive body of evidence collected on this point of late years by writers on remittent and yellow fever, and on the ordinary con-