49 ADIPOSE TISSUE. CHAPTER IV. adipose TISSUE, (Tela adiposa,— Tissu adipeux,—Tissu graisseux.) Section I. The separate existence of an adipose membrane was suspected by Malpighi, distinctly taught by De Bergen and Morgagni, and demonstrated by William Hunter. It was, however, confounded with the filamentous tissue, under the general name of cellular membrane, adipose membrane, and cellular fat, by Winslow, by Portal, by Bichat, and most of the continental anatomists, till dis- tinguished and positively described by M. Beclard himself. According to the dissections of De Bergen and Morgagni, the demonstrations of Hunter, and the observations of M. Beclard, its structure consists of rounded packets or parcels separated from each other by furrows of various depth, of a figure irregularly oval, or rather spheroidal, varying in diameter from a line to half an inch, according to the degree of corpulence and the part submitted to examination. Each packet is composed of small spheroidal par- ticles, which may be easily separated by dissection, and which are said to consist again of an assemblage of vesicles still more minute, and agglomerated together by very fine and delicate cellular tissue. THe appearance of these ultimate vesicles is minutely described by Wolff in the subcutaneous fat, and by Clopton Havers* and Monro in the marrow of bones, in which the two last authors compared them to strings of minute pearls. If the fat with which these ve- sicles are generally distended should disappear, as happens in dropsy, the vesicles collapse, their cavity is obliterated, and they are confounded with the contiguous cellular tissue, without leaving any trace of their existence. Hunter, however, asserts, that in such circumstances the cellular tissue differs from the tissue of adipose vesicles, in containing no similar cavities; and justly remarks that the latter is much more fleshy and ligamentous than the filamentous tissue, and contends, that though the adipose receptacles are empty and collapsed, they still exist. When the skin is dissected from the adipose membrane * Osteolorjia Nova; or some New Observations on the Bones and the Parts belong- ing to them. By Clopton Havers, M. D., F. R. S. London, 1 GDI. Ovo. P. 167. D