77 ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. first, the sheath, reputed to consist of condensed filamentous tissue: the two last, the proper arterial and internal tissues. ( Tunica pro- pria et membrana intima.) 1. The inner surface of the arterial tube is formed by a very thin semitransparent polished membrane, which is said to extend not only in the one direction over the inner surface of the left ven- tricle, auricle, and pulmonary veins, but in the other to form the minute vascular terminations which are distributed through the substance of the different organs. This membrane is particularly described by Bichat under the name of common membrane of the system of red blood, because he believed it to exist wherever red blood was moving,—in the pulmonary veins, in the left side of the heart, and over the entire arterial system. The inner membrane may be demonstrated by cutting open or inverting any artery of moderate size, when it may be peeled off in the form of thin slips by the forceps. Or, if the tube be fitted on a glass rod, by removing the layers of the proper membrane in suc- cessive portions, the inner one at length comes into view in the form of a thin translucent pellicle, of uniform, homogeneous aspect, without fibres or other obvious traces of organization. This mem- brane is supposed to be prolonged to form those minute vessels in which the proper coat cannot be traced. It is very brittle, and is distinguished during life by a remarkable activity in forming the morbid states to which arteries are liable. In other respects it is deemed by Bichat peculiar, and, though similar to the proper mem- brane, is to be considered as unlike any other tissue. Its chemical composition is not known. 2. Exterior to this common or inner membrane is placed a dense strong tissue of considerable thickness, of a dun yellowish colour, which is found to consist of fibres disposed in concentric circles placed contiguous to each other round the axis of the artery. If this substance be examined either from without or in the opposite direction, it will be found that, by proper use of forceps, its fibres can be separated to an indefinite degree of minuteness, even to that of a hair, and that they uniformly separate in the same direction. Longitudinal fibres are visible neither in this nor in any other tis- sue of the arterial tube. This is the proper arterial tissue, (tunica propria.) Its uniform dun yellow colour is perceived through the semitransparent inner membrane, and is most conspicuous either when this is removed, or when the outer cellular envelope is de-