684 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. and more intelligible. Since that time the distribution of these membranes, individually and generally, has been elucidated by the labours of Hunter, Carmichael Smyth, and Bichat, with a degree of perspicuity and precision which leaves little to be done by sub- sequent observers. Notwithstanding this, Valentin Hansen of Triers, a learned student of the University of Berlin, thought it, in 1834, a subject worthy of further inquiry and explanation ; and his dissertation must be allowed to be a good memorial of industry and intelligence.* In this, nevertheless, there are certain peculiarities which may perplex the beginner, and prevent him from obtaining at first a clear idea of the distribution and configuration of the pellucid membranes. Thus they have neither beginning nor termination ; they have neither orifice nor egredient canal; and they are not continuous with any other membrane or texture. ยง 1. Every serous membrane consists of a hollow sac everywhere closed, and to the cavity or interior surface of which there is no natural entrance, a circumstance from which they have been deno- minated shut sacsy (sacci occlusi ; sacs sans ouverture.) In every serous membrane one part is inverted or inflected, or reflected, as is commonly said, within the other, so that the inner surface of the former part is applied with more or less accuracy to the inner or like surface of the latter. This mode of disposition has suggested to anatomists the homely and trite, but not inappropriate compa- rison of a serous membrane to a nightcap, one-half of which is folded or doubled within the other, so that while one-half of the inner surface is applied to the remaining half, no communication exists between the inner and the outer surface. Every serous membrane, in short, is a single sac, one-half of which is doubled within the other. In every serous membrane the outer surface of the unreflected portion is applied over the walls of the, region which the serous membrane lines, while the outer surface of the inflected portion is applied over the organ or organs contained in that region. From this arrangement it results that each organ covered by serous mem- brane is not contained in that membrane, but is on its exterior sur- * Peritonaii Humani Anatomia et Physiologia, Dissertatio Inaiig. Quam pro sum- mis in Medicina et Chirurgia Honoribus in Universitate Literaria Frederica Gudelma, rite sibi conciliandis, die 21 Junii 1834, publice defondet Auctor Valentinus Hansen Rhenano-Borussus. 4to.