HYPERTROPHY OF THE LIVER. 885 arch of the colon; the duodenum, or the pancreas, or all these at the same time. Instances of hypertrophy of the liver have been long observed. They were seen by Morgagni, Bianchi, Bang, Stoll, Portal, Fo- dere, Baillie, Bailly, and all who have observed the morbid changes incident to this gland. The lesion is at present common in differ- ent forms and degrees. Hypertrophy may be the effect of the third variety of inflamma- tion, the acute, congestive, or enlarging. But more commonly it advances slowly and steadily, until the size of the organ and its projection under the right hypochondriac margin and the epigas- tric region renders the enlargement no longer doubtful. As it advances, it gives rise to effusion of serous fluid within the abdo- men. Hypei trophy, both in moderate and extreme degrees, arises in this country from the intemperate and long continued use of spirits. One of the most marked instances of the disease which have come under my notice, in which the liver projected fully four inches be- low the margin of the right hypochondre, arose in this manner. VY hen first seen, it was in the early stage, with symptoms of inflam- matory and vascular congestion. Under the use of remedies cue y depleting, the size of the organ was reduced, and the drop- sical effusion within the peritoneum disappeared. But when the patient left the hospital, he returned to his previous habits, and in no ong time came back, with the liver as large, heavy, and pro- minent as before. He soon sunk under the disease. The liver was found to weigh upwards of 10 pounds. Instances of the disease I have seen come from Norfolk, in some parts of which county it is the effect either of ague or the physical causes of that disease. The change has also be°en observed in all aguish and marshy dlstr.cts; in Lincolnshire and some parts of Essex in England; in the department of the Maritime Alps ac- cording to Fodere; in the island of Walckercn and many parts ° 5 w ; 'r a 6 “aremma “ Ita'y i in *e rcarshy and low coasts o tie West India Islands; and in various parts of the East Indies In these situations, hypertrophy of the liver may either follow one more attacks of ague, most usually quartan a"uo or it m i “ri s,of:!y r steadili : me attack of this disease. In these circumstances, it is clear that hypertrophied state of the gland arises from aprevil W ontinued vascular orgasm or congestion. This congested state of