DIVISION OF THE TEXTURES. 17 sition of all the other simple tissues. To these, therefore, which are named by Bichat general or generating systems, the character of textures of distribution may be applied. A second order, con- sisting of substances confined to particular regions and organs, and placed in determinate situations, viz. brain, muscle, white fibrous system, yellow fibrous system, bone, cartilage, fibro-cartilage, and gland, may be denominated particular tissues. To a third order, consisting of substances which assume the form of a thin mem- brane, expanded over many different tissues and organs, may be referred skin, mucous membrane, serous membrane, and synovial membrane, under the denomination of enveloping tissues. It may indeed be objected, that the circumstance of mechanical disposition is insufficient to communicate a distinctive or appropriate character, and several of the tissues referred to the second head, e. g. fascia, must, on this principle, be referred to the third. The objection is not unreasonable. But it may be answered, that it is almost vain to expect an arrangement entirely faultless; and the present is con- venient in being on the whole more natural, and therefore more easily remembered, than any other. A distinct idea of it may be formed from the following tabular view. General or Common Tissues. Particular Tissues. Enveloping Tissues. Compound Organs. ' Filamentous Tissue. Artery. - Vein. I Lymphatic Vessel. L N erve. r Brain. Muscle. White Fibre. Yellow Fibre. Bone. Cartilage. Fibro-Cartilage. .Gland, f Skin. ) Mucous Membrane. I Serous Membrane. (Synovial Membrane. Organs of Digestion. Organs of Respiration and Circulation. - Organs of Urinary Ex- cretion and Reproduc- tion. Organs of Sensation. | Capillary VesseL ( Ligament. -< Periosteum.' ( Fascia. 1 Yellow Ligaments. ( Ligamentum Nucha;. Tooth. I Tongue, Oesophagus, j Stomach, Duodenum, ( Ileum, and Colon. | Larynx, Trachea, Lungs, J and Heart. ( Ureter, Bladder, Penis, j &c. Uterus, Ovaries, ( Fallopian Tubes. ( Eye ; Nasal Passages ; t Ear ; Tongue, and ( Palate. li