74 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. fibres with which it is thus traversed in every direction. In other instances, however, the adipose matter is deposited in a mass in the cavity of a spherical or spheroidal cyst, formed in the filamentous or the adipose tissue; and the tumour is soft and compressible, and seems to contain fluid or semifluid matter. When cut open it is found to contain a soft semifluid matter of the consistence of honey, but of oily or adipose properties. In such circumstances the inner surface of the cyst, or at least the vessels of this surface, are the agents which secrete the fatty matter. This tumour may occur either in the filamentous or the adipose tissue; but is to be re- garded as an example of local deposition of adipose matter. It may appear in any region of the filamentous tissue, but is most frequent about that of the head and face. Small steatoms are not unfrequent in the eyelids and in the scalp. Larger ones are more frequent about the neck. The other forms of encysted tumours, distinguished by the names of atheroma, (athjpw/xa pulticula ab pultis genus), and meliceris (psXixrigis mel and cera, honey ; wax), are to be viewed rather as va- rieties of the steatom than as generically different. The substance contained may differ in consistence, but is nearly the same in es- sential qualities. 7. Melanosis. I have already spoken of the melanotic deposi- tion taking place in the filamentous tissue. The adipose mem- brane is also a frequent seat of this singular change. The black or melanose matter is found in the subcutaneous adipose membrane and the subjacent cellular tissue of the chest and belly; it is not uncommon in the fat of the orbit; it is very commonly seen in the adipose cushion on the fore-part of the vertebral column, that sur- rounding the kidneys, and in the fat of the anus and rectum ; it is found in the anterior and posterior mediastinum; and it is found between the folds of the mesentery, of the mesocolon, and of the omentum. It is also found in the substance of the marrow of bones; and perhaps in most cases in which the osseous system ap- pears to be stained with the melanose dcposite, the dark matter may be traced to the medullary particles, the situation of which it is found accurately to occupy. In all these situations it appears in various degrees of perfection, and in different forms. It may be disseminated in black or inky spots through the adipose membrane; it may be accumulated in spherical or spheroidal masses of various size and shape; or it may