794 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. of a uriniferous tube, with a small mass of blood-vessels inserted into it. 2d, That the Malpighian bodies may be easily injected from the arteries, and that the capillaries surrounding the uriniferous tubes may be injected though less easily. When the tubes are injected, it is by extravasation from the Malpighian tufts. 3c?, By the veins, the capillaries surrounding the tubes may be injected ; but neither the Malpighian bodies, nor the arteries, nor without exti avasation, the tubes. The mam cause of this impediment to injection and the movement of fluids from the veins into the ar- teries is the position and small size of the efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies, which stand in the way of any fluids being transmitted to the Malpighian vessels. 4th, The Malpighian bodies cannot be injected from the tubes, neither can the plexus surrounding the tubes or the veins be in- jected without extravasation. 5th, There is only one Malpighian body to each serpentine tube. 6th, The epithelium of the tube, when it enters the expanded por- tion which forms the Malpighian body, becomes transparent, and is covered with vibrating cilia.* Within the capsule, however, of the Malpighian body, the cilia cease. The accuracy of several of the representations of Mr Bowman has been doubted, and more or less decidedly controverted by Huschke, Reichert, Gerlach, and Bidder. Reichert states, that whatever means be adopted, by making minute sections of recent kidneys, and using high magnifying powers, he never was able to observe any transition of the uriniferous ducts into the capsule of the Malpighian bodies.f On the other hand, some confirmation of the correctness of this part of Mr Bowman’s representation is furnished by the structure of the kidney in the Myxinoid fishes by Muller. In these animals, which present the simplest type of renal structure, this connection is undoubted. Gerlach made trials of the same kind as those by Reichert, yet without tracing any connection between the uriniferous tubes and * On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney, with Obser- vations on the Circulation through that Gland. By W. Bowman, F.R.S., &c. Read February 17, 11142. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London for 1842. London, 1843. Part i. p. 57. f Bericht iiber die Fortschritte der Microscopischen Anatomic in dem Jahre 1842. Von Reichert, Prof, in Dorpat. in Muller’s Archiv, Jahrgang 1843.