143 SYSTEM OF CAPILLARY VESSELS, &C. constitute what may be termed the essence of inflammation ; and it is still undetermined by what agency these states are induced in the capillary system of any tissue or organ. On this head it may he remarked, that, if by any means the natural velocity with which the blood moves through any set of capillaries he diminished, and continue so, the quantity of blood in these vessels must be gradu- ally and steadily increased, until it becomes very considerable. This appears to be one cause of the accumulation of blood in any part which is in the state of inflammation. 2. Temporary dilatation of the capillaries not inflammatory. The capillary vessels undergo a temporary dilatation during the progress of aneurism, whether allowed to go on naturally, or after the application of the ligature to the arterial trunk. When the collateral circulation has been fully established by the enlargement of the anastomosing branches, the capillary system shrinks to its ordinary size. 3. Extravasation. When the capillary vessels of any part have been injured, so as to burst or give way, the blood which they con- tained is effused round them, and into the cellular or other structure of the part, occasioning sometimes considerable swelling, and, if near the surface, a red, blue, or yellowish colour. In such cir- cumstances the blood is said to be extravasated, and the change of colour is termed ecchymosis. 4. Mode of repair ; union by adhesion and granulation. When they are divided by simple incision, they pour out first blood, then serous or colourless fluids, lastly, a semifluid, which undergoes co- agulation, and which forms the uniting medium of the divided sur- faces, (liquor sanguinis, or blood-plasma.) This is the radical moisture of the older physiologists; (Taliacotius, Ambrose Pare, Phioravant, &c.); the balsam of Nature, or agglutinative balsam of Wiseman,* the gluten of Sauvages, Gaubius, and Cullen, the Rut in regard there is a certain medium which answers in proportion to a glue, required in this work, Nature taketh what is next in hand, even the nourishment of the part which is hurt to make it of. Ubi morbus ibi remedium is here as an oracle ; where the disease is, there is the remedy. No sooner is the wound made but the bal- sam is discovered. Blood, at least the serous part of it, is the glue, which she useth both in curing by the first and second intention. The first being performed per sym- physin, i. e. a reunion of the parts without any medium, by which word I here mean any caUus or flesh, or other body interposed ; for in another sense the balsam of Nature is the medium, the instrument of unity, and puts the parts together ; the second per cys- surcosin, i. e. with a medium or interposition of some flesh or callous substance, that