1020 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. by a net-work of vessels, in which he could distinguish the air-cells still open. These tubercles generally adhered externally to the blanches of the bronchial tubes, or to the pulmonary arteries and veins; in some cases a small bronchial tube seemed to end in a tubercle. Externally the pulmonic ■pleura was marked by black round lines like rings, which appeared to be lymphatic vessels. Where the degeneration was a little greater, the cells were oblite- rated, and the tubercles, the vessels of which were impervious, ap- peared to have coalesced into a whitish mass. This author doubts, nevertheless, whether these bodies, which he denominates miliary tubercles, were not obliterated vessels, which, when cut across, presented the appearance, but had not the reality of tubercles, the more so, that these tubercles could be traced through the lungs in the direction of ramification. He further ex- presses the opinion, that these tubercles are first formed by thicken- ing, and inflammatory degeneration of lymphatic glands, and that this is the reason why they present a different appearance from that of the ordinary tubercles of the air-cells already described,—since they seem to adhere most to the small bronchial tubes. As to the origin of the calcareous matter, he does not admit that these concretions can be formed by the inhalation of dust or sand, since their structure is too complex, and the opinion is sufficiently refuted by analysis ; but he thinks, that the surrounding membrane, whether that of a gland, or an air-cell, had so degenerated by in- flammation as to assume the fibrous character, and the faculty of osse- ous or calcareous secretion. He infers, therefore, that the lungs present two kinds of tu- bercles ; one produced by chronic inflammation of the air-cells, by which their membrane is made to secrete lymph, which fills and unites them into a mass; the other more calcareous, produced ap- parently by degeneration of the minute glands ; but both agreeing in inducing inflammation of the adjoining air-cells, and vomica’. The suppuration which produces the latter change, and which com- mences most frequently in the centre, though sometimes in the side of the tubercle, presents this peculiar difference from common sup- puration, or that which takes place in wounds, that whereas in the latter granulations are formed by which the cavity is filled, in the former no granulations take place, because no new vessels are formed; and as the vessels are obstructed and convey no new matter, the tubercular mass is softened by a species of partial death. When this suppurative destruction begins, it proceeds in general