984 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. is brown, and in some violet or purple. The lung so affected loses tenacity and becomes friable. In some instances this change is of a chronic character, and it appears to occupy weeks or even months in its progress to com- pletion. In other instances it seems to proceed a certain length and then to stop, leaving considerable portions of the middle and lower lobes in a state of red hepatization. These patches are easily distin- guished by being dark-coloured, while the adjoining lung is more or less red; by being solid and incompressible, and void of crepita- tion, while the other parts are soft, compressible, and crepitating, by being quite insusceptible of inflation; and by sinking in water. Sections of such portions of lung show the close granular appear- ance and compact structure of the pulmonic tissue already men- tioned. In these circumstances the pleura is in general healthy, and it is not uncommon to find that membrane in its usual state over considerable portions of lung that have been long in a state of red or brown solidification. As a fourth stage of pneumonia has been generally enumerated the change denominated gray hepatization. It appears to me not certain that this view is correct. Gray hepatization appears to be of- ten a change not succeeding to red or brown consolidation, but one which follows a certain stage of the disease in a particular form and in certain constitutions. Its anatomical characters are the following: o The whole lung is firm, solid, inelastic, and more or less incom- pressible. It fills the chest completely, and usually projects a little when the sternum is removed. The pleura is very generally co- vered with patches of lymph, and sometimes it adheres extensively and more or less firmly. The lung itself is most solid at the mid- dle and lower lobes, and the upper lobe alone is soft and a little compressible. Sections of the lung show the substance to be of gray-red, or dirty yellow colour; sometimes with portions of bluish- gray, green, orange, and in short variegated. The substance is solid, compact, but friable and very easily rent; in short, it comes away under the fingers. Much serous fluid, more or less turbid, with some blood-coloured purulent matter, oozes from the surface of the sections. When examined by the microscope, pus globules are seen both in the interstitial matter and oozing from the cut sur- face. Granules of lymph and blood are also observed infiltrated into the interstices of the filamento-cellular tissue. When the part has