ElBRO-SEROUS MEMBRANE—CHRONIC THICKENING. 743 IX. Accidental Development.-No tissue perhaps is so liable to be accidentally repeated as the serous. The cysts already men- tioned are generally regarded as examples of tins repetition; an , indeed, they possess all the characters of serous tissue, cysts are found in many parts of the body ; but they are most fre- quently observed in the kidneys, sometimes m connection \vi 1 granular disease of those glands; and they are very common in the female ovary, in which they often constitute the anatomical character of dropsy of that organ. They are also seen in e testicle of the male. The mode of their development is not well ascertained. The hypothesis of dilatation or expansion by mechanical compression was successfully refuted by Bichat; but the one, which he attempts to establish in its place, has not been generally adopted. Certain of the minute clustered bodies denominated by Laennec acephalo-cysts, and the animal nature of which, though admitted by that author, is denied by Cuvier and Rudolphi, belong to the same head. Their formation is equally little understood. X. Morbid States of the Fibro-serous Membranes.—Be- fore concluding this chapter, I must notice certain morbid states incident to the fibro-serous membranes. § 1. The dura mater, as a compound membrane, partaking at once of the structure of periosteum and arachnoid, is liable to affections which bear this twofold character. Its outer or cranial lamina is liable to all the morbid processes incident to periosteum. Its in- ^ ner or arachnoid, it has been already shown, is liable to those pe- culiar to this membranous pellicle. I have already shown that the latter surface of the dura mater is occasionally covered by albuminous exudation, the result of the in- flammatory process. This same substance is occasionally deposited between its laminae, and causes thickening and some induration. § 2. Thickening of the Dura Mater.—This membrane is liable, under the influence of various causes, to become greatly thickened. In several instances I have seen it as thick as ordinary leather, very firm, yet otherwise unchanged in structure. This thickening is always connected with symptoms of chronic inflammation, which may take place either spontaneously or in consequence of external violence on the head. Yet the thickening is usually confined to the dura mater of one hemisphere, and that the superior part of the