GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. G08 and softened, but not remarkably thickened. This state of the gastric membrane, though occurring spontaneously, may be pro- duced by repletion or improper articles of food, and by several of the acrid poisonous substances. Of this form of gasteria a good delineation is given by Dr Armstrong in the second plate of his first Fasciculus. b, Gasteria psilotica ; Psilosis.—In the persons of those who have long pined under various chronic diseases, the gastric mucous mem- brane is liable to a form of disease in which some part of it becomes pale white, bluish, rose-coloured, or gray, continuously or in long narrow stripes, or irregular patches more or less thickly set. The spaces so coloured are simply depressed beneath the level of the adjoining membrane, not ulcerated, soft and thin, and converted into a glairy semitransparent pulp. According to M. Louis, to whom the pathologist is indebted for the correct description of this change, when in narrow stripes, it is distributed nearly uniformly over the whole surface of the stomach; when continuous, it occu- pies the large extremity of the organ, is rarely confined to the great cul cle sac, and in some instances appears at once at the cardiac and pyloric orifices. The vessels of the submucous tissue, which is generally sound, are large, distinct, and empty.* From the few instances in which I have seen this change myself, I should say that it consists in removal of the villi by some process analogous to inflammatory absorption. It is certain that in the affected patches these processes are greatly less distinct, and often totally gone. I may add that this is one at least of the forms of the change which John Hunter describes as digestion of the stomach;! and also one of these described by Dr Yellowly,! the greater part of which, it is to be observed, occurred in persons cut off by pulmonary consump- tion. To this head probably are to be referred such cases as that recorded by Mr Douglas, who found the villous coat obliterated except near the pylorus, and the muscular absorbed.§ The theory of its production is further exceedingly obscure; and I abstain from conjecture. In similar subjects, but more especially in the phthisical, the gas- tric membrane is liable to become occupied by minute roundish eminences, not unlike granulations separated by superficial furrows, * M6moires ou Reclierches Anatomico-Pathologiques. Paris, 1826. -j- Observations on certain parts of the Animal Economy, p. 226, 231. + Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. iv. p. 271, 5 out of 20. § Mem. Med. Soc. vol. iv. p. 3.05.