1032 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. morbid state. The most frequent change in this country is that of kirrhosis, with more or less enlargement and induration, in which sections of the gland show it to have a peculiar yellow colour, with a darker hue of the acini. This takes place in rather more than one-third of the cases. The most common change in France ap - pears to be the adipescent transformation of the organ which occurs in one-third of the cases. In this the organ is pale, fawn-coloured, more or less tender and friable, chequered with red outside as well as within. The bulk of the organ is always increased, some- times to the amount of twice its usual dimensions. In this coun- try, this change does not take place in so many as one-sixth of the cases. The former lesion is most common among males; the lat- ter among females. The brain is very generally slightly softer than natural. The membranes are injected; and fluid is effused beneath the arachnoid membrane and within the ventricles. Tubercular deposits or tyromatous matter, fluid or semifluid, or solid, are found in various other organs besides the lungs. Thus the ileum and the colon are said to become the seat of this deposit; but perhaps it is rather the albuminous effusion in the granular shape, than real tyromatous matter, which has received this cha- racter. The deposit, however, is found in the mesenteric glands, the cervical lymphatic glands, the lumbar glands, the prostate, the spleen, ovaries, kidneys, womb, brain, and cerebellum, in the order now mentioned. The usual termination of the lesions of the lungs above described is in death. As the contents of the tubercular masses are softened and expelled into the bronchial tubes, they cause in these and in the windpipe and lungs most violent irritation and inflammation, with consequent copious secretion of puriform mucus, which is mingled and spit up with the proper tubercular matter. As this process advances with several tubercular masses simultaneously and successively, very general bronchitic and tracheal inflammation is induced; and at the same time with them symptoms of peripneu- mony and pleurisy may be combined from the causes already spe- cified. In this state of matters, the function of respiration is gradually confined in its extent and effect, until it is nearly anni- hilated, when perhaps not more than one-fourth, or, in some cases, one-sixth, or one-tenth of the lungs is left permeable to air and blood. Death then ensues, partly as the effect of the exhaustion