GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 578 coagulation after exposure to the air. In the upper part of the trachea this substance is firm and in the form of a tubular mem- brane moulded on the canal; below and in the bronchial divisions it is less firm ; in the tubes it is completely fluid.* (Home, Cheyne, Bretonneau.) The nature of this morbid exudation has been a matter of ambiguity. Home, who remarked that the tubular mem- brane when complete is tough and thick, might be soaked in water for days without dissolving, that it does not adhere to the wind- pipe, as there is always fluid matter beneath it, and that beyond it, the windpipe, bronchial tubes, and pulmonic vesicles, are covered by pus or purulent mucus, thought it of the nature of thickened mucus. In one case Rumsey calls it viscid mucus or phlegm; in others he likens it to the huffy coat. Field regards it as coagulable lymph; Cheyne, with some confusion, compares it to the exuda- tion of the inflamed pleura or peritonaeum, and accounts it thickened puriform fluid; while by Pinel and most of the recent authorities, it is identified with albuminous exudation. According to the in- vestigation of its chemical properties by Schwilgue, Maunoir and Peschier, and Jurine, it appears to contain albumen in various pro- portions, and to owe to this principle its tenacity and firmness. Bretonneau, in particular, endeavours to establish a distinction between the tracheo-bronchial exudation, the albuminous concre- tions of serous membranes, and the huffy coat, but without success.f It may bd inferred, therefore, that this substance, without being either wholly coagulable lymph, or thickened mucus, or dried pu- rulent matter, is a morbid product secreted from the tracheo-bron- chial mucous surface, in a semifluid form, and undergoing, in con- sequence of the presence of albuminous or albumino-gelatinous matter, coagulation, as it is more freely exposed to air. Death is produced in this disease chiefly by the albuminous fluid in the bronchial tubes and vesicles excluding the air from the pul- monary membrane. 13. Bronchiasis albuminosa adultorum. Polypose inflammation of the trachea.—Not very dissimilar is that morbid state of the tracheo- bronchial membrane, in which a membranous concretion, moulded on the tube, is, from time to time, brought up by coughing either * “ We can even demonstrate,” says Cheyne, “ the adventitious membrane degene- rating into the puriform fluid, and again gaining consistence in different parts of the same membrane. _ . f Des Inflammations du Tissu Muqueux, et en particulier de la Diphthente, Paris, 1B26. P. 293.