329 BRAIN. in a young girl of thirteen. The case given by Scoutteten took place in a child of five and a-half, with a head so large and heavy, that whenever the child attempted to run, he fell forwaid hom the great weight of the head. Three of the cases given by Laennec took place in persons employed in white-lead manufactories, and liable to lead colic ; and of the four cases given by M. Dance, two occurred in house-painters. The disease had not then been observed in per- sons above 50. In most of the cases, the patients were between 20 and 30; in two cases among fourteen, the individuals were 37 and 39 years of age; and in two men 43 and 44 years of age. Andral thinks that the lesion takes place, as it were, in two stages or periods ; that in the first the disease appears like a chro- nic affection, with headach, hebetude of the intellectual faculties, and similar phenomena; and that in the second, which is attended with epileptiform convulsions, it presents all the characters of an acute and speedily fatal lesion.* Dr Sims gives the details of fifteen cases, which tend partly to confirm, partly to modify the results now stated. Among these fif- teen cases, in the first place, the ages of the subjects were as follow. One at 11 months ; one at 3 years ; two at 10 years; one at 16 ; one at 22 ; one at 24 ; two at 29 ; two at 40 ; one at 48 ; two at 60 ; and one at 70. Of none of the cases is the occupation stated, all hav- ing been occupants of the St Mary-le-bonne Charity Workhouse. Eleven were females and four males. Though in most of the cases portions of the brain were unusually firm and consistent, Dr Sims extends the term hypertrophy to cases also, in which the brain is unusually large, without increased consistence. Dr Sims further recognizes two forms of hypertrophy; one a state of mere enlarge- ment or addition of particles, without appreciable difference from the ordinary state of the organ, congenital or connected with rickets, and early evincing its presence; the other connected with increased weight of the brain, the flattening of the convolutions, the white and albuminous appearance, and the bloodless state of the organ. It is chiefly the latter form of the disease which corresponds with that described by Dance, Laennec, and Andral. He confirms the con- * Clinique Medicale. Par G. Andral, M. D., ou Choix d’Observations, &c. Livre premier ; 4trieme ordre ; 3iemecdit. 1834. Paris. (Three eases ; a female of 27, a man of 2!), and a man of 39.) Case of Hypertrophy of the Brain, with Spontaneous Obstruction of the Humeral Artery, Ac. By Dr Ghristison. I'.din. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. XLII. p.257. (A female aged 37, Edin. 1831,) published 1834.