69 ADIPOSE TISSUE. system communicates to all the elementary tissues of the frame, and hence sinks more easily and promptly under the influence of the perverted or impaired vascular disorder in which inflammation consists. It is not unlikely that this is also one of the principal causes of the peculiar irritative characters of the febrile disorder with which the inflammation of the adipose tissue is attended. We know that in the case of inflammation of highly organized tissues, as the se- rous membranes, the character of the concomitant fever is often distinct and acutely inflammatory,—much perverted action of the vascular system, but little of the nervous system, and much less of the overpowering prostration and oppression of all the vital powers which attend inflammation of the adipose membrane. In the one case, the actions of life seem to be simply increased, and are cer- tainly perverted, and in one respect augmented in intensity. In the other, they are oppressed and overpowered; and the full vi- gour of reaction, as it has been named in the mechanical lan- guage of the iatro-mathematical schools, is not permitted to deve- lope itself. But it is not only in its constitutional effects that inflammation of the adipose tissue is a malady so important. From its intimate union with the parts which it incloses, its destruction entails their destruction ; and, if it do not prove fatal by the severity of the fe- brile disorder which it induces, it may do so by the ravages which it causes among muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels. I mentioned its tendency to expose and denude the blood-vessels; because in almost all the dissections which I have seen and performed of this disease, I have found the vascular sheath more or less diseased sometimes destroyed and the vessels exposed, the veins thickened 1 inflaraed’ aidd the arteries brittle, softened, and sloughy. In Z diSeaSe F°Vea fata1’W in- e" o D i, I f SOTdCr’ °r b? “6 inflammation of the affecl theS, ”T mternal OTSan> as instance when it Ixects the adipose membrane of the chest, and thence passes as I et:z:i:xpl:zmi^ mentioned, the destracLn'if'thead' ” °c theS° modes “°* of the vessels, would have the effort T® T"?’ "S the sl,eath teriat tunics and runtZ To °f I>roduc>»S death in the ar- the sheath is by any meanstoaclm iTZi W® ^“0Wi that wllen ■ached from the arterial tunics, either