ERECTILE TISSUE. 179 spongy, like the uterine surface of the placenta; and wax injected into the popliteal artery escaped from it, and was deposited be- tween layers of coagulated blood, which must have proceeded fi om vessels opening on this surface. The substance of the tibia at the bottom of the cavity was rough, corroded, and partly destroyed. After the limb was removed the patient remained well for five years, when the stump, and eventually the whole thigh, was attack- ed with painful pulsation. At death, which soon took place, the substance of the thigh-bone was found to be removed by absorption from the cut end to near the neck ; and the periosteum, which was much thickened, was interspersed with largely dilated vessels, and formed a sort of capsule or inclosing membrane to the diseased parts. This disease differs from anastomotic aneurism in its pulsation and distension being at all times the same, and in not presenting the phenomena of erection. Though it is mentioned in this place from its general resemblance to that disease, it may be more justly regarded as genuine aneurism of the capillaries, or rather aneurism of the arteries of bone. Morbid States of the Spleen as an erectile organ. 1. Softening. The most common morbid state of the splenic tissue is that of softening. This may be various in degree. In the least severe the texture of the spleen is lacerable; and when torn, the surfaces present a good deal of the natural structure of the organ iu the form of fibres and vessels, and filaments of some firmness. In the next stage, the softening is more complete and the organ may be crushed between the fingers. When a stream of water is directed on the surface, it washes away much wine-red-colour- ed fluid, leaving shreds and filaments. In the third and most com- plete degree of this lesion, the spleen is converted into a soft semi- fluid pulpy mass, of a dark-red or deep pink colour, like thick wine- lees, with nothing but a few shreds and filaments left. This change of consistence takes place in ague, remittent fever, yellow fever, typhus, occasionally in puerperal fever, and sometimes in diseases of the stomach and alimentary canal. The nature and origin of softening of the spleen is not perfect- ly known. If not an effect of inflammation, it must be regarded as one of excessive vascular distension. It is associated with that state in which the internal vascular system in general, and that of the abdomen in particular, is for a long time,inordinately distended. Inflammation, it must be remembered, has the effect of destroying