488 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 11. Osteo-sarkoma.—Though this is mentioned as a distinct va- riety of morbid change, it is probably pf the same nature as exos- tosis. In this light it is viewed by Scarpa and Boyer. Upon the whole, though I cannot agree with the former in accounting it of the same nature as spina ventosa, I think the examples of osteo-sar- koma may be referred to the cartilaginous variety either of perios- teal or medullary exostosis. 12. Encysted Tumours, a. Osteo-steatoma.—The formation of steatomatous tumours in the substance or at the surface of bones, has been noticed by Kulm,* * * § Hundtermark,f Herrmann,J Pott,§ Murray,|| Sandifort,H Red,** Yon Siebold,ff and above all, by Pallettajj and Weidmann.§§ The tumour is generally encysted; and though it is represented by J. Bell as originating in the medul- lary tissue, it seems occasionally to arise from the periosteum. Its contents are not invariably, as its name seems to indicate, of an adi- pose nature. They vary from gelatinous, oleaginous, and melice- ritious, to atheromatous and sebaceous, irregularly intermixed with spicules and lamellce of bone. Their progressive enlargement causes by pressure and absorption destruction of the contiguous bone. This is the process which by Palletta is termed ossivorous. b. Hcematoma; (Blood-cyst.)—Of all the examples of this dis- ease (abscessus sanguineus,) collected by Palletta, one only I find originated in the substance of a bone,—the tibia in its upper epi- physis, which was consumed by carious absorption. (Case 22.) In several, however, the tumour, though originating in the adjoining tissues, had produced by progressive encroachment the same effect. c. Fungus Hcematodes.—This is the same as the fungous me- dullary exostosis above noticed. Whether it originates in this manner, or from the contiguous textures, it produces the same ero- sive destruction of the bones. An instance of this originating in the peritonaeum I saw destroy the bones of the pelvis, and reduce the upper half of the right os femoris to a thin net-work of bone, which broke asunder a few days before death. 13. Scirrho-Carcinoma.—Though this seems never to originate * Haller, Disp. Mcd.-Chir. Vol. V. p. 653. f Haller, Disput. Med.-Pract. Tome VI. p. 349. + Diss. Inaug. J. G. Herrmanni de Osteo-steatomate, Lipsiae, 1767. § Phil. Trans. No. 459. || Dissert, de Osteo-steatomate, Upsala;, 1730. ^ Mus. Anat. I. 161. ** Archiv. III. B. 453. •j-|. Sammlung Chirurg. Beobacht. u. s. w. II. B. p. 310 and 412. £j; Exercitat. Patholog. p. 111. §§ De Steatomatibus, Moguntiae, 1817.