93 ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. valves, which consist of two folds of inner membrane, when it is found in no other part of the aorta. 2>dly, Admitting, for the sake of argument, that cellular tissue is placed between the inner coat and the proper arterial tissue, if calcareous matter he deposited in it, it is not analogous to what is observed in this tissue elsewhere. Without relying much, however, on these facts, I shall state the ordinary mode in which the deposition appears, independent of any opinion as to its precise source. The calcareous incrustation commences invariably at the outer surface of the inner membrane in the form of minute gritty points, or of small isolated patches. In the former state they appear to be hard and crystalline, and render the inside of the vessel rough ; in the latter they are simply firm, and are less earthy or gritty, and without forming asperities in the inside of the vessel, may make it merely firm and unyielding, and deprive it of its elasticity. In either case, these calcareous deposits, confined more or less to one side, may spread along the tube for a considerable extent. They seldom affect the whole circumference of an artery unless in the lower extremities, in which they have been observed to form dis- tinct rings, connected by intermediate portions of sound artery (Hodgson.) r . When the deposition is partial and limited, and of short duration, it is still covered by the inner membrane; and the inside of the vessel, though irregular, is comparatively smooth. When the patches multiply and enlarge so as to coalesce, the inner membrane gives way at one or more points of the margin of the calcareous deposite, which now adheres only to the surface of the proper mem- brane ; and an irregular ragged circumference is exposed. If the artery contains many patches, its entire inner surface presents a series of asperities resulting from the rupture of the thin pellicle of inner membrane with which they were at first covered. Yet these calcareous patches are not known to be detached entirely diSr^r,18^ rbid chanseas ^ ***** differently. But 1 shall afterwards show that this arises from con- dXtf 1^“the steat—**■***».a pears l^th^form^r-°f ag°d Persons> the calcareous deposit ap- fibres of the middle ° ^ lllatter’ mto which the circular i vC tran8f0rmed‘ Ifc often happens that This dennaV GX rClni^les are thus converted into bony tubes. I si ion may take place in any part of the^arterial sys-