GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 354 tellect, give rise to fatuity; and life may be terminated either by coma, with or without convulsion, or by a sudden apoplectic attack. 2. Most of these organic changes, if small or limited in extent, exercise little influence on the functions ascribed to the brain. Even when large, their influence seems to be referable chiefly to the mor- bid changes in the capillary circulation now mentioned. In many instances no change in sensation, intellect, or locomotion is induced till within a few days before death, when the convulsions, palsy, and coma, which preceded this event, must be ascribed chiefly to vascular injection taking place a little before these external effects become manifest. 3. The situation of the morbid substance and of the disordered action is certainly of some moment in modifying the effects pro- duced. To determine the influence of local situation in this respect attempts, direct and indirect, have been made by La Peyronie, Zinn, Lorry, Haller, and Saucerotte, and more recently by Rolando, Flourens, Serres, Bouillaud, and others. Without attempting to inquire into the merit of the experimental and argumentative inves- tigations of these authors, I shall merely state some of the most im- portant conclusions, which they have thought their researches justified. 1. Injury done to the anterior lobes of the brain causes, accord- ing to M. Bouillaud, more or less loss of speech, depending either on disorder or abolition of memory, or on that of the muscular mo- tions of the organs of speech.* 2. According to the observations of M. Serresf and MM. Fo- ville and Pinel Grandchamp, when the corpus striatum, that is, the anterior part of the striated nucleus, is injured, the motions of the legs are disordered and impaired; and when the optic thalamus, or the posterior region of the striated nucleus, is injured, the motions of the arms are impaired. 3. Though M. Serres has endeavoured to demonstrate the posi- tion of M. Gall, that lesions of the middle lobe of the cerebellum have a particular influence on the generative organs, this is rendered very doubtful by the researches of Rolando, Flourens, and especi- ally Bouillaud. M. Flourens endeavours to show that the cere- bellum regulates, influences, or co-ordinates the voluntary motions. * Recherclies Cliniques, &c. Par M. .1. Bouillaud, D. M. Archives Generates, Tome viii. p. 25. Traite Clinique et Physiologique, p. 157-161. Paris, 1825 ; and Note sur une article de M. Pinel Fils, &c. Journal de Physiol. Tome vi. p. 19. -|- Annuaire Medico-Chirurgical et Journal de Physiologie, Tome III. p. 123-128, et cnsuite.