1046 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. thus inadequate to perform their function of preventing the blood from flowing backwards into the ventricle, when propelled from that chamber. In more advanced stages of this disorder, the valves are more rigid, more firm, and more penetrated by calcareous matter; their margins become rough, irregular and tuberculated or warty; their substance thickened and firm, but very much shrivelled, so that they no longer retain either their membranous character or their semilunar figure; they gradually are transformed into a ring of firm cartilaginous or calcareous matter; and, at the same time, the orifice of the aorta is considerably contracted. In some in- stances, they remain in the horizontal position, as to the axis of the artery, projecting from its walls in the form of hard firm growths, and impeding much the issue of blood from the left ventricle. Cartilaginous or osseous degenerations of the semilunar aortic valves are not uncommon lesions. They may take place at any period of life after the fortieth year; but are found earlier; and are most common in advanced life. With or without the changes now mentioned in the aortic semi- lunar valves may be observed steatomatous and calcareous deposits at the commencement of the aorta, and extending into the coronary arteries. In the aorta, these deposits may be in the shape of flat patches, or warty prominences and elevations, and sometimes the inner membrane is detached, and it is observed that the blood has been flowing over a hollow sac with a rough continuous surface, like a small and imperfect aneurism. In some instances, these patches are of the nature of bony spiculse, and a considerable space of the aorta is converted into a rigid calcareous tube. The coronary arteries are occasionally affected with the same deposit; and then become rigid, firm, and unyielding, deranging the circulation through the heart, causing atrophy of the organ, and rendering it feeble and unable to contract with due force on the blood. Such a change has been supposed to give rise to the symptoms of Angina pectoris; but it has been observed to take place without inducing any symptoms, yet causing sudden death either by syncope or paralysis of the heart. These steatomatous deposits consist of fat in a crystalline state or cholesterine. Cartilaginous or calcareous transformation of the tricuspid and semilunar pulmonary valves is much more rare; a fact noticed by Bichat, and repeated since his time by most pathological writers, as distinctive of the difference between the internal membrane of