288 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. is, however, a class of purulent collections in the brain which in general it is possible to trace to mechanical violence inflicted on the head; and it is remarkable how long a period may elapse be- tween the date of the injury, and that destruction of the organ which renders the continuance of life impossible. Pigray gives a case in which an abscess, the size of a nut, proved fatal at the end of six months ;* * * ยง and Morand mentions one in which a soldier, who had received a shot in Italy, after slight treatment of the wound, proceeded thence to Paris; and nine months elapsed before suppuration and total destruction of the right lobe terminat- ed life.f In a case mentioned by Prochaska, the first foundation of the disease appears to have been frequent beating on the head for years, finally carried to intensity by a blow on the forehead, five months after which death took place.J In a case by Sir E. Home, nearly nineteen months elapsed between the receipt of the injury and the fatal termination^ In one by Dr Denmark, the interval between the supposed injury and the period of death was twelve months. || Many similar cases are found in the writings of surgeons.IF The result is, that a portion of brain more or less extensive is convert- ed into purulent matter, contained in general in a membranous cyst, more or less thick and vascular, according to the interval be- tween the infliction of the injury and the time of examination. Between suppuration of the brain, from internal and external causes, a distinction has been drawn by Baiilie, in the circum- stance, that in the former it is generally in the substance, and in the latter on the surface of the organ. This distinction does not hold good in several respects, and requires modification. 1st, Where a long interval elapses after the infliction of the injury, the collection of purulent matter is almost invariably deep seated. 2d, In like manner, when the injury operates in the manner of counter- stroke, the collection is also often within the substance of the or- * Libre IV. chap. ix. t Opuscules de Chirurgie, 1. c. p. 159. J Obs. Patholog. Section iv. apud Opera Minora, p. 304. ยง Transactions of a Society, Vol. III. p. 94. || Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. V. p. 24. K See especially several cases of this kind in the writings of Louis, Le Dran, Rava- ton ; and by Volaire, Journal de Med. Vol. XX. p. 503. Thilenius, Med. und Chir. Bemerkungen. Walther, Obs. 33. Thulstrup Physicalks Bibliothek. fiir Danmark 1 Band. April. Bailey in Med. and Phys. Journal, Vol. XXIII. p. 376.