GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 978 course in the cellular interstices of the lobules, they terminate in their interior in branched air passages, and freely communicating air-cells. It is proper to premise, that to each lobule of the lung belongs one bronchial tube of some size ; that the divisions or branches of this bronchial tube are confined to the lobule to which it belongs, which indeed it forms, and do not communicate with the branches of adjoining lobules ; and that each lobule is enclosed in cellular or filamentous tissue, firmer than that within the lobule, and which thus separates that lobule from the surrounding ones. The small bronchial divisions within each lobule are intralobular ramifications. In the foetal lung, these intralobular bronchial divisions pursue a regular branched arrangement, subdividing in all directions, and terminating at the boundary of the lobule in closed extremities. Many also terminate in the interior of the lobule. These intralo- bular branches do not anastomose. In the foetal lung, there are no air-cells properly speaking. But when an animal breathes, the air entering by its pressure into the windpipe and bronchial tubes proceeds to the intralobular branches; and in this manner distends each lobule speedily to as great extent as these intralobular branches allow. After this they are found to form a series of communicating cells, which are permanently occu- pied by air; and in this all the trace of the original branched ar- rangement is lost or obscured. These cells are pentagonal or hexagonal in shape. This may be regarded as the statement of the fact as given by Mr Addison. The cause of this cellular formation is twofold; first, the forcible pressure of the air which enters by the windpipe, and is perpetually impelled to the ultimate extremities of the tubes and their intralobular ramifications; and the delicate and yielding membrane of these ramifications, which, by presenting an unequal resistance, is thus distended into cells. The air-cells do not, however, communicate with each other in the interior of a lobule in an indiscriminate and general manner. As the intralobular bronchial l'amifitations do not anastomose, the air-cells formed along one branch do not communicate with those formed along another; and so on through the whole lobule. The lobules nevertheless present in their interior branched pas- sages forming a communication between the cells. But these pas- sages are stated to be neither tubular nor cylindrical. They are de- nominated lobular passages. 3