GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 950 gray colour, and presents, or may be said to consist of, numerous globular granules aggregated together. These globules vary in size from a small pin head to a millet seed, or the grains of sago, and are mostly of the sienna- yellow, or cream-yellow, or stone-gray colour, but in some parts they are of leaden-gray. Various patches also of the kidney present this leaden-gray tint, which may be traced partly to the intermediate spaces or lines, partly to the globular granules themselves. None of the striated texture of the cortical matter can be recognized in this variety, in which the cortical mat- ter appears to be completely converted or transformed into the new formation. In the longitudinal section of this all that is seen is the appearance of a uniform mass of sienna-yellow animal matter, with- out trace of distinct organization, sometimes minute granular bodies, but almost never any striated texture. The tubular cones retain a colour more or less bright red, and, being enclosed in this buff-coloured morbid texture, present a strik- ing contrast to the state of the healthy kidney. Sometimes they are diminished in size, and sometimes in the section made one or two of them seems either to have disappeared, while in the place which they should have occupied, buff-coloured matter is deposited, or to have been converted into a firm, solid, gray-coloured matter. This variety of change is also unsusceptible of injection. The kidneys in this state are almost invariably firm and hard, and are sometimes smaller than usual. 5. It is very difficult, if not impracticable, to distinguish all the various forms of this buff-coloured or sienna-yellow transformation of the cortical matter of the kidney. Most of them differ chiefly in the shades of colour which the transformed cortical matter assumes, and the degree in which the striated matter has disappeared, and in which, consequently, the kidney has become incapable of receiv- ing injection. The most usual colour in this stage, which is per- haps the concluding, is some shade of sienna-yellow, sometimes inclining to buff-orange, or to tile-red. In some rare cases the colour of the new deposit is lemon-yellow or gamboge-yellow. In others, it is of a tawny colour. In all these cases the kidney is in general small and firm, sometimes almost cartilaginous. The kidney is liable to the same kind of change in the dropsy which follows scarlet fever. In some instances, the cortical portion is merely mottled or marbled, and its surface presents superficial hollows containing clusters of blood-vessels, while the section of the gland shows part of it changed in colour, though with remains of