GASTRIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE—CHRONIC ULCER. b £ Trans, of the Association, Vol. i. § Med. Chjr. Trans. Vol. vii. navel, all over the belly, pale, shrunk features, small rapid pulse, followed by rapid breathing and cold extremities; and dissolution may then be certainly apprehended. This species of gastric inflammation and ulceration has been con- founded by several authors with cancerous destruction. From this, however,'it is to he distinguished by the absence of any considerable thickening or induration in the vicinity of the ulcer, or in any ot ler part of the stomach, by its presenting less intense gastric symptoms, and by its taking place either principally in young persons, especi- ally young females, or in persons of all ages; while cancer is rather the disease of declining years. Ulceration affecting the raucous follicles of the stomach is some- what different. The surface of the swelled follicle begins to be perforated by innumerable minute reddish points, which gradually coalesce, and when this is completed, a reddish brown ragged sur- face is formed. Ulceration often proceeds, it has been seen, by successive destruc- tion of the submucous, muscular, and peritonaeal coats to perfora- tion, which consists in the occurrence of a ragged opening, through which the contents of the organ escape, and give rise to secondary peritonseal inflammation, which is invariably fatal. This accident, examples of which are recorded by Morgagni, Lieutaud, Carmi- chael Smyth,* Gerard,f Crampton,} Travers,§ Louis, and Dr Aber- crombie, may take place at any part of the stomach, but appears to be most frequent in the space between the great and small arches, but nearer to the former. In some rare instances, in which adhe- sion is formed between an adjoining organ and the edges of the aperture, the contents of the stomach are prevented from escaping, and life may be continued till the progress of ulceration destroys a part where this temporary barrier cannot have place. The most important point to he known is, that these ulcers may be cicatrized. Independent of the uncertain cases recorded by At- kinson and Red, we have an authentic and unequivocal example in the person of the late M. Beclard. This able anatomist laboured at one period of his life under obstinate symptoms of gastric dis- ease, the nature of which, though uncertain, seemed to partake of chronic inflammation. The symptoms did not give way without * Med. Commun. Vol. ii. p. 467. t Des Perforations Spontanees de l’Estomao. Paris, 1803.