398 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. or less numerous nucleated cells, which become distinct by immer- sion in vinegar. These are either broad, oblong oval, with nucleated cells, or col- lected in long or short, small striae, acuminated at both ends, which are incurvated in the semilunar or serpentine form, like the corpuscles in the roots of the hair; or they may be in rows of three, four, or six small dark nuclei. The nuclei lie sometimes detached ; sometimes alternating, or placed with their edges opposite each other ; sometimes on the surface of the fasciculi in great quantity. Most of them are straight, with their long axes parallel ; but sometimes they are oblique or transverse. The circumstance that principally distinguishes the animal mus- cles from the other two sorts of muscular fibres, and from all other tissues, is the striated arrangement of thq fasciculi, which run both transversely on the fasciculi, and in the longitudinal direction, and preferably sometimes in one, sometimes in the other direction Only in the heart, especially in the neighbourhood of the external and the internal covering, are seen fasciculi, which are sometimes small-grained, like the smooth muscular fibres, but are also undu- lating and curled, like ligamentous tissue, and even intermediate between the two. Others are observed in the heart, and sometimes also in the muscles of the trunk, which appear to have a fine-grained content; but the granules or punctula of which are not arranged in determinate lines. It would exceed the limits within which these notices must be confined, were I to describe the whole as represented by the micro- scope. It is enough to say that the fibres of the voluntary muscles are distinguished by this character of being varicose, like a string of very minute beads, or moniliform, that is, consisting of granules or nuclei arranged in rows, so as to form a beaded filament; that in some of these longitudinal striae predominate, in others trans- verse striae ; and in others, the appearance of the longitudinal striae is such that they seem to be cirrose or curled; and in others, again, the transverse beading is so strongly marked, that it seems to obscure and disguise the longitudinal arrangement. 2. The second order of muscular fibres is that of the muscles formed after the type of the middle arterial coat If the muscular layer of the stomach or bowels, or that of an excretory duct is se- parated into fibres, there are similar, often long flat lamella, as in the annular tissue of arteries, or the longitudinal fibrous coat of