GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 812 this manner always cause unnatural excitement and irritation in their vessels and elementary particles. Saline substances also reach the glands and act on them sometimes favourably, sometimes detrimentally. Glands are liable to inflammation, acute and chronic, and all their usual effects and consequences; to hemorrhage; to indura- tion ; to hypertrophy ; to atrophy; to interstitial deposits of new matter ; to the obstruction of their ducts by blood, lymph, and the products of secretion; to various changes in structure in the ele- mentary or ultimate particles; and to several of the heterologous depths. When glandular organs are affected by inflammation, that pro- cess may affect either the component tubes or the delicate filamen- tous tissue by which these tubes are united; or both at the same time. When the process affects the tubes, if it do not terminate in resolution, that is, if the orgasm, after subsisting for some time, does not subside without giving rise to inflammatory products, it causes effusion of plasma, or of blood within the tubes, which are then for the time obliterated. In this case the gland is enlarged and indu- rated, sometimes irregular, is the seat of dull pain and weight, and secretion is almost impracticable. In certain favourable cases, in which the plasma or blood is ef- fused in small quantity, it does not undergo coagulation; and the tubes may remain more or less pervious ; or even, after a time, may recover entirely their permeability. Instances of this undoubtedly take place both in inflammation of the liver and in that of the kid- neys. In other instances, however, in which the effusion is abundant, the gland remains hard and enlarged for a long time, sometimes for life. When inflammation affects the outside of the tubes and acini, or elementary particles, and the connecting tissue, it more commonly causes the effusion of purulent matter, in one or more distinct cysts or abscesses. Lastly, inflammation often attacks first and principally the ex- cretory duct and its divisions, and terminates in effusion of matter more or less copious. This either escapes by the general duct; or, if i do not readily escape, or is entirely confined, the duct and all the communicating parts become greatly distended, containing conside- rable quantities of purulent matter, and their lining membrane co- vered with a coating of lymph; and in this case the gland appears