SKIN. 523 a pit in consequence of a chicken pock; then ulceration has taken place on the surface of the cutis, a common thing in sores. The circumstance of a slough at the bottom of each pock or in- flamed point has been particularly insisted on by Joseph Adams, a most zealous admirer of the pathology of Hunter, and an active commentator on his principles. “We have before seen,” says Adams, “ that the peculiar property of some morbid poisons is to produce death in a part, whether the inflammation be violent or not. Of this kind is the small-pox, every individual pustule of which is found with a slough at the bottom, which may be removed with ease, after time has been allowed for its separation by suppu- ration. The progress of the sinall-pox is therefore to form a num- ber of sloughs under the skin, (on the cuticular or outer surface of the corion,) and the danger depends on the number formed, and the violence which the constitution suffers from the first shock of that stimulus which excites it into this process. If the stimulus of the small-pox virus is moderate, its local action follows by adhe- sive inflammation and slough; after which, the parts and constitu- tion have sustained the first shock, and the subsequent process of suppuration, to separate the slough, is accomplished with so much ease, that the constitution is rarely sensible of any general incon- venience. But the face having sustained the first shock, the actions on that part began with the greatest rapidity, and continue so throughout their whole progress; in consequence of which the pus has a higher tinge, and the progress of skinning beginning as soon as the slough begins to separate, this irregularity produces an in- equality in the surface of the pustule. On the contrary, the actions being slower in other parts, the pustules acquire the property of common sloughs, and granulation follows suppuration for the re- storation of the lost part.’’-f According to the observations of Cruikshank, this white slough is not situate in the corion, but in a vascular membrane exterior to it, and immediately beneath the cuticle. This anatomist macerated in water for a week several portions of small-pox skin, which he had previously injected, and kept for some time in spirits. “ The spirits with which they had been impregnated made them resist the effects of this water longer. Cuticle and rete mucosum were already turned down; and upon the eighth or ninth day I found I could separate a vascular membrane from the cutis, in which were also situated the * Philosoph. Transactions, Vol. LXX. p. 133. Mr Hunter’s account of a woman who had small-pox during pregnancy. + Morbid Poisons, p. 364.