534 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. any extent. One mode in which this disease appears to commence is by the formation of a patch of hard red shin, slightly hut diffusely swelled, and which is the seat of a hot, gnawing, smarting sensa- tion. Though smooth on the surface, it is found by examination to be irregular, or very soon becomes so by the formation of small hard round bodies, (pustulo-tubercular), which after some time begin to be acuminated, and cast the cuticle in thin peelings. Occasion- ally they give rise to thin watery vesicles of no determinate shape, which either burst the cuticle and discharge their fluid, or appear to cause an insensible dewy oozing all over the surface. The most usual seat of this form of cutaneous inflammation is the side of the nose, one of the alae, or a small portion of the cheek. After sub- sisting in this form for some time, it may disappear spontaneously, the skin becoming of its natural colour, soft and without pain. More frequently, however, the cuticle continues to be cast off in peelings; vesicles and pustules continue to be formed ; and one or other more red and painful than the rest is at length covered by a scab, which dropping oflF discloses a small sore with a smooth un- granulating surface, and a scanty, thin, bloody-coloured, puriform discharge, which generally forms a fresh crust or scab. This either spreads without showing any disposition to heal, or coalesces more or less completely with other sores which are generated in the same mode, and undergo the same process. After proceeding in this manner for weeks or months, a tendency to heal is manifested in some parts, while others continue to spread. The parts which heal are irregularly seamed and scarred. This form of disease appears to correspond with what Wiseman describes under the name of Herpes Exedens. k. Another form of local pustulo-tubercular disease I have seen take place on the skin of the face, generally on the forehead, in the form of round hardish bodies, with flat summits, to the number of eight, ten, or twelve, disposed in a circular arrangement, rhe surface of the skin was red, glossy, and occasionally casting cuti- cular scales and shreds. These bodies were stated to be the seat of an uneasy sensation of heat rather than of pain. 1 hey had not advanced to ulceration. Upon removal by the knife, they be- came pale, white, and considerably shrunk. Internally they con-» sisted of gray coloured substance, interspersed with a few blood- vessels, not hard, so much as doughy, tough, and fibro-cartilagn qous. They did not, nevertheless, present the characters of cai- 1