948 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. appearing as it were to encroach on their bounds and pass between them. The tubular cones, though retaining their colour, seem then rather smaller than usual, and appear like reddish oval-shaped bodies, enclosed, as it were, in the gray or orange-coloured corti- cal matter. The extent to which this transformation proceeds varies in diffe- rent kidneys and in different portions of the same kidney. In some cases it commences in one of the extremities of the gland, and either extremity is then seen to be more remarkably changed than other parts. In other instances, it commences in the centre of the gland or rather the central part of the cortical matter; and then this part is most completely transformed. In consequence of the peculiar change in the colour of the sur- face, the pits in which are of a darker colour than the elevations and intermediate portions, the kidney now described is sfiid to be mottled. 3. Without increase in size or change in consistence, the cor- tical part of the kidney may be penetrated or infiltrated with gra- nular albuminous matter in various modes and degrees. a. In one variety which appears to be comparatively in an early, though not an incipient stage, when the gland is stripped of its tu- nic, the surface is irregular, rough, or as it were sprinkled with fine sand, of a reddish gray colour, with more of the former than the latter; and part of the cortical matter not unusually comes off adhering to the tunic. The surface presents also small hollows or pits, containing blood-vessels as in the last variety; and, indeed, this appearance is one of the most constant. When the surface is closely inspected, numerous minute reddish gray granules may be recognized, not aggregated together, but separately infiltrated into the cortical matter. When the gland is divided by a longitudinal section, part of the striated texture of the cortical part is still re- cognized in the form of reddish-coloured streaks, extending from the circumference to the tubular cones; but all the rest of the cor- tical part of the kidney is of reddish gray colour, lighter than usual, and when minutely inspected either by the eye or with the aid of a lens, small cream-coloured or grayish coloured granular bodies are observed dispersed through the cortical matter. In such a kidney as this, if coloured glue or isinglass be thrown into the blood-vessels, it does not perfectly, as in the healthy state, fill the cortical matter of the gland. The healthy parts only, or those which still retain the striated texture, are reddened by the in-