SKIN. 503 the contiguous filamentous tissue, and receiving the extremity or root of the hair implanted in it. Every hair is cylindrical, tapering regularly from the root to the point, and solid, but containing its proper colouring matter in its substance. The colour varies, but the root is always whitish and transparent, and softer than the rest: the fixed or adhering pait of the root is almost fluid. When, hair is decolorized, it becomes transparent and brittle, and presents a peculiar silvery-white coloui , and as hairs of this kind are few or abundant, it gives the aspect ol gray, hoary, or white-hair. The bulb, though visible in a hair plucked out by the root, is too small in human hair to. be minutely examined ; and Chirac, Gaul- tier, and Gordon, have therefore described its structure and appear- ances from the bulbs of the whiskers of large animals, the seal for example, in which it is much more distinct. According to researches of this kind, every bulb forms a sort of sac or follicle, which con- sists of two tunics, an inner one, tender, vascular, and embracing closely the root of the hair ; and an outer, which is firmer and less vascular, and surrounds the inner one, while it adheres to the fila- mentous tissue and the inner surface of the corion. When the hair issues from the bulb, it passes through an appropriate canal of the corion, which is always more or less oblique, but which, as has been already said, it fills completely ; and it afterwards passes in a simi- lar manner through the scarf-skin. Nervous filaments have been traced into the bulbs of the whiskers of the seal by Rudolphi and the younger Andral. The bulb or follicle, in short, is inorganic, and forms by secretion the inorganic hair. The structure of hair itself appears to be either so simple, or so incapable of being further elucidated, that anatomists have not given any facts of consequence regarding it. Its outer surface is believed to be covered with imbricated scales, because in moving a single hair between the finger and thumb, it follows one direction only. Hair is believed to be utterly inorganic, though the phenomena of its growth, decoloration, and especially of the disease termed Polish plait, (plica Polonica,) have led various authors to regard it as possessed of some degree of vitality. These phenomena, how- ever, may be explained by the occurrence of disease in the bulbs or generating follicles. Hair is insoluble in boiling water, but Van- quelin succeeded in dissolving it by the aid of Papin’s digester. From the experiments of this chemist, and those of Hatchett, it may