GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 368 In various situations two, three, or more nervous trunks or chords mutually unite by means of some of their component threads, and after proceeding in this manner for a short space, again separate, but not in the same number of original trunks, or preserving the same appearance. In general, the number of chords into which they finally separate is greater than that of which they consisted before union. Three or four nervous trunks, for example, after uniting in this manner, will form on their final separation five or six nerves or nervous chords; and it is quite impossible to deter- mine which of the latter order was derived from any one or two of the former, or what number of individual chords it has received from each. Between the two points also, the first point of union, and the last of separation, many of the more minute component threads are detached from two or more of their trunks, and after first uniting with each other in an indistinct network, are agaiu united to two or more of the nervous chords near the point at which they finally separate from the further end of union. This arrangement has been termed a ■plexus, plait, or weaving, in conse- quence of the manner in which the nervous chords are interlaced or plaited together. The arrangement which we have noticed as consisting of the more minute nervous threads has been called a smaller plexus ; (plexus minor.) It is a subordinate plexus within a larger one. The best and most distinct example of a plexus is that commonly named the brachial or axillary.* This, as is well known, is situate in the space contained between the broad dorsal muscle (latissimus dorsi) behind, and the great pectoral muscle before, and is formed in the following manner. The fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and the first dorsal, after forming the usual con- nections, (ansae,) pass downwards from the vicinity_of the vertebrae between the middle and anterior scaleni muscles, and nearly opposite * Imo nullibi fortasse clarior atque evidentior est h*c multarum conjugationum nervearum consociatio atque commixtio, quam in hac nervorum spinalium implicatione pi exuni brachialem appellata. Ibi enim quinque memorati nervi spinales cervicales una convenientes, qua primum cohaerent, aut tribuunt ant mutuo dant et accipi'int a sociis stamina, qua: demum in plures ramos consociata de plexu exeuntes brachiorum nervos faciunt ex omnibus illis quinque conjugationibus spinalibus, aut ex earum pie- risque, compositos. Atque exinde sequitur, ut nervi brachiales dicti, qui a plexu ad brachium, manum digitosque ejus omnes derivant, minime ad unam, sed ad plures spinalium conjugationes, nempe ad quatuor cervicales inferiores et dorsalium primum pertineant.—Anatom. Annotation, cap. iii. § 9. pp. 4.