PAROTID GLAND—CHRONIC INDURATION. 821 gland or of the lymphatic glands, when taking place in young per- sons ; and the age of the patient, as well as the appearance of the tumour and aspect of the patient, ought to be taken into account. Neither does mobility avail so much as M. Boyer seems to imagine. A mere indurated parotid gland may, from its position, contract very firm adhesions with the contiguous parts. The circumstance of age, however, must not be taken alone. Sabatier records a case of considerable enlargement in the site of the right parotid, in a person above 60 years. The tumour extend- ed in the vertical direction from the infra-zygomatic fossa to 5 or 6 centimetres below the angle of the jaw; and in the horizontal, from the lobe of the ear to the anterior margin of the temporal muscle. In shape it was irregular. It was free from pain. To this tumour, which Sabatier removed by operation, he applies the name of Exu- berance. Upon its inner structure he gives no details. But it must have been an instance either of hypertrophy, or some change different from scirrhus. II hat, then, is to be said of the cases, now numerous, in which the parotid gland is recorded to have been removed by operation ? For a long series of years, surgical authors have been in the habit of speaking familiarly of scirrhus of the parotid gland, and. of the i emoval of the gland for this distemper. It appears, indeed, at one time, if we form a judgment from the frequency of instances of exci- sion, to have been imagined to be a common disease. Thus Heister, Von Siebold, Souscrampes, Orth, Burgras, Hezel, and Alix, all record cases, which, they say, are examples of excision of the parotid gland. . To the question here suggested two answers must be given. First it appears certain that scirrhus is by no means so frequent as has been supposed; and, secondly, the alleged instances of scirrhus from which the gland is stated to have been removed, were cer- tainly either strumous indurations and enlargements of other parts, • or affections of the gland not scirrhous. In several instances these operations'could not have been per- ionned on the gland, and must have taken place on enlarged lym- ftc ‘ a"d> ,n other.r«P“ts,itismore than doubtful that the pai otid was affected by scirrhus. Richter and John Bell first • M7’ Ri". %or, Velpeau, and the majo- T8ur?:°ns’maintai" “latis impossible to L rPate the gland without tying the carotid.