GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 208 some of the smaller may be traced to their commencement. This, which was ascertained by Cruikshank, (p. 55 and 58,) and con- firmed by Hewson, Bleuland, and Hedwig, has been contradicted by tbe observations of Rudolphi and Albert Meckel. In all other parts, however, though a successful injection may show the course and distribution of many of the smallest lymphatics, yet no orifices are perceptible at the point at which they seem to stop, ana we are uncertain whether these points are their origins. (Cruikshank.) Mere observation is here as unavailing as in regard to the termi- nation of exhalants. Tbe continuation of lymphatics with arteries, unless in the case of those which arise from the interior of arterial tubes, (Lauth,) is not satisfactorily established. It has been con- jectured, however, that their ends or imperceptible origins are con- nected to the tissues to which they are traced, and that the lym- phatics arise in this manner from these tissues. The lymphatics are distinguished by being in general cylindri- cal in figure, and by varying in calibre at short spaces. In this respect they differ from the arteries and veins. It has been further justly remarked by Gordon, that the middle-sized lymphatics are remarkably distinguished from the corresponding parts of the ar- terial and venous system by three peculiarities. ls£, When two lymphatics unite to form a third, the trunk thus formed is seldom or never larger than either of them separately; 2d, their anasto- moses with each other are continual; and, 3d, they seldom go a great space without first dividing into branches, and then reuniting into trunks.* The outer surface of a lymphatic is filamentous and rough, the inner smooth and polished, like that of small veins. Itds impossi- ble to observe the structure of these tubes in the middle-sized, or even in the large lymphatics; and anatomists have generally been satisfied with supposing that the structure of all of them is similar to that of the thoracic duct, or some other large vessels equally susceptible of examination. According to the observations of Cruikshank, (Chap, xii.) which have been verified by Bichat, the thoracic duct presents, a layer of dense firm filamentous or cellular tissue, exactly similar to that found inclosing arterial and venous tubes, which the latter regards as foreign to the vessel, but giving it a great degree of support and protection ; 2d, a proper membrane, delicate, transparent, and moistened inside by an unctu- * System, p. 71.