974 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Senac next maintained that the lungs consist of lobules; that each lobule consists of vesiculae, in each of which ends a bronchial tube; and that each vesicula, consists of small polyedral cells, not more than the sixth part of one line in diameter. This idea of vesicles or small cells was adopted by James Keill, Cheselden,* * * § Winslow,f and various systematic authors; and the idea of Duverney that they communicate, appears at the same time to have been added. Helvetius on the other hand was of opinion, from various exa- minations and experiments, that the representation of round vesi- cula or cells was entirely a fiction ; that what Malpighi describes as air vesicles are the cells of the cellular tissue; and that the closed ends of the bronchial tubes are the last recipients of the at- mospheric aii’4 Haller, though inclined to the doctrine of Helvetius, inferred nevertheless, that considering all the circumstances and the pheno- mena of experiments and dissections in living or recently dead adult animals, each bronchial tube does not terminate in an in- dividual cavity, but that there is in the human as in the reptile lung, a cellular arrangement, the imperfect chambers of which communicate freely with each other, until the investment of each lobule delays the passage of the air and prevents it from proceed- ing from lobule to lobule. All these observers speak in a manner rather confused and some- times contradictory; and, though it seems singular, that any one accustomed to inquiries of this kind could confound the termina- tions of the bronchial tubes, whether forming cells or not, with the cells of the pulmonic cellular tissue, there is reason to believe that this was done by Dr Hales. The doctrine of communicating air-cells was accordingly very generally taught by anatomists, and is distinctly presented by Soemmering, who may be taken as the representative of anatomical * “ They are each composed of very small cells, which are the extremities of the cispera artcria or bronchos. The figure of these cells is irregular, yet they are fitted \ to each other so as to have common sides and leave no void space.”—Anatomy, Book iv. Chap. vii. p. 173. Lond. 1784. + Exposition Anatomique de la Structure du Corps Iluniain. Par Jacques-Benigne Winslow, de l’Academie R. dcs Sciences, &c. Paris, 1732. 4to. N. 104 et 130. X Memoires de l’Academie des Sciences, 1718, p. 24—28. § Elemental Physiologic, Lib. viii. Sectio ii. § xxix. § xxx. Tom. iii. P- 1" Lausanne, 1766.