836 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. stances with occasional diarrhoea; the patient appears to derive no nutriment from his food ; and he dies tabid. The name of metastatic suppurative inflammation I have applied to denote suppuration of the pancreas occurring under peculiar circumstances, that is, connected with inflammation of veins, usually the hemorrhoidal or spermatic. It was observed long ago, that in the operation of extirpation of a testicle or testicles, and subsequent ligature of the cord to prevent hemorrhage, among other accidents it occasionally happened that a collection of matter was formed within the substance of the pancreas or around the gland, and the same result was observed to take place in the course of various dis- eases of the testicle or its vessels. Antony Petit, especially, who had witnessed several examples of the suppurative destruction of the pancreas, adduces them as arguments against the propriety of practising the operation of ligature of the cord after castration. Portal also informs us that he found in a man dead after extirpa- tion of a testicle and ligature of the spermatic cord, a large quan- tity of purulent matter within the cord and round the pancreas. The explanation of this singular occurrence is to be found in the fact, that in the old method of inclosing the cord within a ligature, the veins were included, and very often became inflamed and un- derwent the suppurative inflammation. When this took place, the matter formed in the interior of the spermatic veins was transported to various internal organs, sometimes to the kidneys or their ves- sels, sometimes to the lungs, and sometimes to the pancreas, and there deposited. According to this view, it is scarcely requisite to regard inflammation as the necessary preliminary of this suppura- tive deposit, and probably the purulent matter found around or within the pancreas is to be considered as transported from the in- flamed part of the tied vein to the other parts of the venous system, and among others to the pancreas. Suppuration of the pancreas has been observed in persons dead of ague, continued fever, fever after the suppression of some ha- bitual evacuation, diarrhoea, hemorrhoids, the catamenia, dropsy, marasmus, convulsions, epilepsy, and hysteria. Regarding the four latter conditions, it is proper to observe, that the state called marasmus is undoubtedly the tabid condition with hectic already noticed, as consequent on the purulent collection within the pan- creas ; and convulsive symptoms are so often observed to ensue on any of the disorganized states of the thoracic or abdominal viscera,