BRAIN. 263 Then follow the first band or spoke of the wreath, and the rest in succession. The anterior rods are long, slender, numerous, and thickly crowded on each other. The middle or lateral are short, thick, roll-like, and form a sort of crest or comb. The posteiioi are long and of fibrous structure. As they expand they form nearly a complete circle, which radiates through all the lobes. The radii of this circle are connected in the anterior lobes with the knee of the beam, cross the fossa Sylvii near the anterior and pos- terior cornua to the outer edge of the thalamus, and terminate in the lateral cornu in the apex of the middle lobe, at the beginning of the Sylvian furrow. In this course the anterior rays of the Staffvvreath are longer than the middle and lateral rays, the inter- ruption of which forms the comb or crest. (Der Kamm.) The pos- terior, which go to the border of the outer wall of the capsule, are the longest; and shorter ones are again seen below in the region of the lateral cornu. The last part, the organization of which can be here made the subject of short consideration, is the striated body. When ob- served, this part presents a singular arrangement of white and gray matter in the form of alternate streaks. This arrangement, though constant, it is unnecessary to describe minutely, unless so far as it is connected with the appearances already mentioned. The parts which chiefly claim attention on this head are the cerebral 7iucleus: its capsule, and the walls of ike capsule. The striated part of the brain may be regarded as a nucleus, (Der Kern) or organized central mass,* which is contained within a capsule consisting of three walls or enclosing plates of white mat- ter ; a lower, an outer, and an inner wall. The lower wall of the capsule, which is accidental, consists chiefly of the tractus innominatus, (Die ungenannte Marksubstanz,) the perforated spot, and that part of the convoluted space from which the olfacient nerve issues. The outer wall is the most remarkable. It rests on the unciform band (Der haakenformige Markblindel) at the entrance of the Syl- vian fossa, which connects the convolutions of’ the anterior lobes by the perforated spot with the middle lobe. From this unciform band as a centre, the fibres of the whole outer wall radiate ; and as the Reil considers it a ganglion, (Das Gestreifte grosse Hirnganglium.) But this idea is hypothetical ; and while I use the term nucleus, I wish to convey no idea but that of one part contained within another.