GENERAL ANI) PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 674 consist in deposition of matter entirely new, either in the mucous cor ion, or in the submucous filamentous tissue. The tumour is almost invariably covered by a thin pellicle similar to mucous membrane, but much more vascular. It appears, on the whole, to be much of the nature of vascular sarcoma occurring in other tex- tures. It is generally vascular, often traversed by varicose veins, is liable to frequent hemorrhage, and occasionally degenerates into: destructive ulceration. It ought not, however, to he confounded with cancer. 3. The name of polypus is also given to a broad, sometimes flat, hard tumour, taking place in the nasal mucous membrane, and pe- culiar apparently to this region. It is generally of a reddish or brown colour, harder even than the fleshy polypus, smooth on the surface, and presenting the appearance of mucous membrane. From several examples of this disease which I have had an oppor- tunity of examining, I infer that it depends on some abnormal de- velopment of the fibro-mucous covering of the spongy or nasal bones. It affects not the mucous membrane only, but the subja- cent periosteum, and adheres firmly to the bones, fragments of which are not unfrequently rent off in the attempt to extract this polypus. It has a tendency to induce inflammation and caries of the bones, but does not appear to possess much malignant tendency of itself. Upon the whole, this variety, though commonly deno- minated polypus, is in truth a tumour of the periosteum, partaking of the polypous character. § 2. Tyromatous deposition, commonly denominated tubercular, is not uncommon in the mucous tissue. It occurs chiefly in the alimentary canal, and in the uterus in the persons of the strumous. Its characters in the former situation are well described by Dr Monro tertius* and have been already considered at length under their proper head. In the uterus it has been observed by several. § 3. Scirrho-carcinoma is a frequent organic change in mucous tissue. It occurs under four forms,—fibro-cartilaginous deposi- tion, tubercular deposition, colloid deposition, and lardaceous de- generation. a. Though fibro-cartilaginous deposition may affect any of the re- gions of these surfaces, it is more frequent in certain points than in others. Thus it occurs very often in the oesophagus, in the cardia, in the pyloric end of the stomach, in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, in * Moibid Anatomy, p. 217.