852 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. more precise than on that of common scirrhus. I have already all rul- ed to one case which probably is to be referred to this head ; and hitherto almost all have been considered as belonging to one cate- gory. The instances of adipification, or rather lardaceous degene- ration, mentioned by Lobstein and Dupuytren, appear to belong to the present head. Bang records in his reports the case of a soldier of 40, in whom, for at least half a year, much pain had been felt in the middle of the abdomen, followed by loss of appetite, constipation, and wasting, and for two months considerable swelling in the left hypochondre. In the course of six weeks more, after great ema- ciation, death took place; when, besides much bloody serum con- tained in the abdomen, the liver was found occupied by white stea- tomatous tumours, (manifestly encephaloid); and the pancreas, which was enlarged to the size of the head of a child, consisted of large glandular tumours, in various parts suppurated and emitting an offensive odour, with extravasated dark putrid blood. This Bang denominates cancer of the pancreas. It appears to have been either encephaloma or chronic strumous suppuration.* It seems doubtful, indeed, if encephaloid disease frequently ori- ginates in the pancreas. It often arises in the liver, and thence spreads to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas ; and it often also arises in the interperitoneal cellular tissue. In this manner I have more than once seen encephaloid tumours developed in the abdo- men and affecting successively many different organs. In cases of this description globular masses of whitish semihard matter like granular suet or cheese, varying in size from a walnut to an orange, appear involving and penetrating the mesentery, the intestines, the pancreas, the liver, and not uncommonly the ovaries in the female. It must, nevertheless, be observed, that, amidst these masses of new deposite, it is usually possible to find the substance of several or- gans less injured than might be expected. Amidst this new struc- ture, the pancreas is in general found, compressed and concealed, but retaining its characteristic granular structure. Of the changes and combination of changes now mentioned, ex- amples are given in almost all pathological collections. Thus, both in the museum of Mr Langstaff, and in that of St Bartholomew’s Hospital, when the pancreas presents medullary or encephaloid tu- mours, the same are found in the brain, in the kidneys, in the liver, or in the interperitoneal tissue. * Selecta Diarii Nosocomii Itegii Fridericiani Ilavniensis. Auctore F. Lud. Bang. Hafniae, 1789, ii. p. 409.