261 BRAIN. bellum, to which, therefore, the olivary eminence approaches in or- ganization. All these parts may be viewed as external markings on the bulb of the spinal marrow, (medulla oblongata.) It is to be observed, that in the foetus, the infant, and in young subjects in general, they are more distinct, than in the brains of adults and especially of the aged, in the brains of infants and the young, all the mark- ings both separating furrows and elevations are most distinct; and the restiform bodies or posterior pyramidal bodies present each a longitudinal furrow, parting them in two portions, one lying close on the median line and furrow, the other lying between their median and most posterior portions and the olivary bodies. To these sometimes the name of posterior pyramidal bodies is applied, and the name appears sometimes to be applied to the restiform bodies, while that of restiform bodies is given to these anterior portions of the posterior masses, still regarded as posterior pyra- mids. As life advances this longitudinal furrow becomes less distinct, and at length is so small as to be imperceptible in many adult and aged persons. This is the reason of the discordance in the state- ments of different anatomists. In the infant brain, therefore, and in that of the young, the medulla oblongata is marked or distinguished externally into eight bodies, or four on each side of the mesial plane. At this period of life also, each of the four lateral bodies is more strongly figured, and appears in more distinct relief than in the brain examined at a subsequent period. In the brain of the young, also, the internal structure is if pos- sible more strongly marked than in that of the aged. It is then seen, that the longitudinal fibres of the bulb are interlaced or in- terwoven with numerous transverse fibres; that the corpora resti- forma are closely connected with the peduncles of the cerebellum; that the anterior pyramids are connected or continuous with thecrura of the brain ; and that the olivary bodies, by presenting a corpus dentatum, form a repetition of the cerebellum in the spinal marrow. The longitudinal fibres of these several parts passing through the protuberance arc observed beyond this body to be in direct continuation with those of the cerebral limbs. ( Crura, Die Hirn- schenkel.) Ihesc are cylindrical masses, stretching obliquely be- tween the protuberance behind and the optic chambers or eminences