748 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. and made to float, and show their connections, figure, and termina- tions. They are analogous to the free processes of serous mem- branes, and like them are double, and contain adipose matter. The synovial sheaths (bursee mucosae) are very numerous, and are generally found in every tendon which is exposed to frequent or extensive motion. Though the fluid prepared by these membranes has been exa- mined by Margueron, Fourcroy, John Davy, Orfila, Berzelius, John, and other chemists, it cannot be said that very accurate re- sults have been yet given of its chemical composition. It is said to contain water, albumen, incoagulable matter, regarded as muci- laginous gelatine, a ropy matter, and salts of soda, lime, and some uric acid. Section II. The diseases of synovial membrane are important. § 1. Hymenarthritis.—Inflammation is an occurrence not unfre- quent in the synovial tissue, and produces effects in many respects similar to those which are observed in the serous membranes. Every example of diseased joint, there is reason to believe, com- mences with inflammation, acute or chronic, of the synovial mem- brane. Of this process the anatomical characters are, injection of the membrane, which sometimes becomes very red with numerous vessels, and occasionally traversed by crimson or brown spots and patches, dulness of its surface, opacity, thickening to a considerable extent, and some degree of pulpiness. The effects of the process are effusion of fluid, sometimes serous, sometimes ichorous or vi- tiated synovia, more especially tinged with blood, occasionally sero- albuminous fluid, which undergoes partial coagulation, and leaves the cavity distended with a thin sero-purulent liquid. In other instances, complete purulent matter, with curdy or albuminous flakes, are the result of synovial inflammation. If it fail to terminate in resolution, the fluid effusion in the syno- vial sac constitutes the simplest of those multiform affections known under the name of white swelling ; (,hydarthrus.) When this is not abundant, the fluid part is absorbed, and the coagulable matter may contract adhesion to the free surface of the membrane. This is the origin of that species of ankylosis, sometimes general and complete, sometimes partial and imperfect, in which the articular