GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 333 Felix Platerus Observation. Lib. i. p. 13—A military man of equestrian rank, who had for two years laboured under mental derangement, with much loss of memory and natural appetites, and with frequent somnolence at table, at length expired. Up- on the mesolobe, upon separating the hemispheres, was found a remarkable globular tumour, fleshy like a gland, hard, but spongy (fungosus), of the bulk of a moderate pippin, enclosed in a proper tunic, vascular, and free from all connection with the brain. Did this originate in the pia mater, in which it appears to have been enclosed ? Joannes Rhodius, Centuria i. Observat. 55.—In the ventricle of the brain of a noble Bolognian a fleshy tumour gave rise to epileptic fits. Miscellanea Curiosa.—In the substance of the brain a tumour like a strumous gland. Johan. Jac. Wagner, Miscellan. Curios. Dec. ii. Ann. 10.—A boy of 14, suffering pain in the forehead and occipital region near the junction with the vertebra, coming on in paroxysms, relieved by vomiting ; epileptic symptoms and death. In the white matter of the posterior part of the brain (occipital,) a preternatural hard sebaceous gland, friable ; in the convolutions of the anterior lobe two glands ; in the end of the cerebellum, near the calamus scriptorius, one as large as a walnut. Memoires de l’Academie Royale.—In the right corpus striatum a glandular substance the size of a bean. Joh. Gottfr. Zinn. apud Comment. Soc. Reg. Scientiarum Gottingensis, Tom. ii. 1752. —In an infant affected with enlarged lymphatic glands a hard substance as large as a walnut. Of this, however, he neglected to preserve an accurate account. In another infant, part of the left hemisphere of the cerebellum, to the extent at least of two inches, was converted into five hardish bodies of different sizes, yellow, like hardened lymphatic glands, mutually adhering. In some parts the traces of the circu- lar leaflets of the cerebellic plates was left ; in others they had disappeared, and left a uniform inorganic mass. The pia mater was readily detached, except at the middle of the hard mass, where it adhered so firmly that it could not be removed without lacera- tion. The contiguous vessels were injected. In an adult female, he observed beneath the parietal bone in the convoluted part of the brain three similar hard bodies, each as large as a nutmeg. They adhered to the dura mater ; and, in all probability, they originated in that membrane. Haller, Opusc. Pathol. Obs. 1.—In a beggar girl of six years, with enlarged mesen- teric, inguinal, and bronchial glands, the left hemisphere of the cerebellum was found adhering to the occipital dura mater ; the whole substance, white and gray, changed into a hard mass two inches in diameter on both sides, uniformly thick, fibrous like the kidney, fissile, destitute of vessels, and without remaining trace either of gray matter or of white ramification. John Jac. Huber, Nova Acta Physico-Medico Academ. Caesareae Leopoldino-Caro- linae, Tom. iii. p. 533 ; also Comment, de rebus in Scientia Naturali, Vol.xviii. p. 335. —Tn the brain of a boy of 3, cut off by decay (tabes), a hard glandular tumour of the size of a filbert, in colour, hardness, and other qualities like a lymphatic gland. When divided it was found to consist of a thin coat enclosing a hard nucleus, which, though compared to purulent matter, was firm and coloured. Jo. Ernest. Greding, apud Ludwig Adversaria Medico-Practica, VoL ii. p. ii. p.492. 1771.—A woman of 30, of delicate constitution, unmarried, labouring under mania, with paroxysms of great violence ; apoplectic attack followed by palsy of left side ; death in about twenty days after. In the right hemisphere, about one inch below the convoluted surface, an ovoid mass, five inches long, three broad, convex-shaped like a lens, one-fifth of an inch thick at middle, resting on the centrum ovale and mesolobe,