19 FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. corpuscle at i55th part of an English inch, and the diameter at 350o* This description applies to the blood circulating in the ves- sels. The flattening of the corpuscles is greatest iu reptiles, amphibia, and fishes; and it is most remarkable in the salamander. In birds the red globules are flattened, but in less degree than in the am- phibia. The red particles are largest in the amphibia. In birds, rep- tiles, and fishes they are smaller. In mammalia they are smallest. (Gulliver apud Hewson, p. 236.) Discharged from the vessels, it exhales, during the process of cooling, a thin watery vapour, consisting of water suspending ani- mal matter capable of impressing the sense of smell, and under- going decomposition. During the same space it is observed to be converted into a firm mass, which, though still soft and elastic, is entirely void of fluidity. As this process advances, a thin watery fluid, straw-coloured, not perfectly transparent, is observed to ex- ude from every part of the solid mass, which also diminishes in size, till at length it is found floating like a tolerably thick cake in the thin watery fluid. The thick solid mass is named the clot or coagulum; the watery fluid is denominated serum ; and the process of the separation, which is spontaneous, is termed coagulation. The blood at the same time is said to discharge carbonic acid. The clot, if divided and washed in water often changed, or in alcohol or aqua potassce, may be deprived of its red colour, and made to assume a gray or bluish-white tint. This gray mass, which is tough, coherent, opaque, and more or less dense, homo- geneous, but void of traces of organic structure, consists chiefly of albumen or fibrin, or a substance partaking of several of the cha- racters of both. To this substance the blood owes its viscidity and its property of spontaneous coagulation ; and from the circumstance of its resemblance to the lymph or albuminous fluid which is effused fi om wounds and inflamed surfaces, and to the fibrin of muscle, and the albumen of many of the tissues, it may be regarded as the most ■vital and nutritious part of that fluid. It is a mistake, neverthe- less, to assert, as is done by Beclard and others, that this substance presents to the microscope the aspect and structure of muscular fibre. Its aspect is by no means so regular as this, nor can its par- ticles be said to present traces of organic structure or arrangement The red matter removed by washing is a mixture of serum, of globules, and of a peculiar colouring matter. Modern chemistry