630 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. escape of the intestinal contents to a greater or less extent; 2c/, the development of peritoneal inflammation, with albuminous deposi- tion on the peritonaeum. The period which elapses between the commencement of ulceration and the completion of erosion varies in different cases. According to the observations of Louis, already quoted, it may be inferred that in a space varying from 12 to 25 days, the ulcer or ulcers may effect destruction of the intestinal tunics. The occurrence of the final laceration of the peritoneal coat may be conjectured by the patient experiencing all at once in the belly intense tearing pain, aggravated by pressure, speedily followed by shrinking of the features, vomiting, &c. which, con- tinuing with almost incessant severity from 20 to 54 hours, denote intense peritoneal inflammation terminating in death. In one case, which, however, must be regarded as an exception, life was continued for seven days after the appearance of symptoms of per- foration. d. Enterici mollescens.—Under this head may be placed a change observed by Louis in the ileum of many persons cut off by phthisis and other chronic diseases. It consists in the raucous membrane be- coming exceedingly soft, almost like mucus or jelly, sometimes thicker than natural, and sometimes redder. In the instances in which I have observed this change in phthisical subjects, the intestinal villi were less distinct than natural. But whether this arose from re- moval of these bodies or from the pulpy swelling of the mucous corion, or from absolute disorganization, I have not been able to determine. It is rarely continuous, and occurs chiefly in large patches, which occupy, however, the whole circumference of the bowel. § 5. Chronic ulceration.—To this head I refer a form of disease of which I have seen several instances in children labouring under symptoms of mesenteric wasting ; (tabes.) I have no doubt that it commences in inflammation of the mucous membrane, or rather of the agminated follicles; but as it was found in the cases to which I allude in the form of ulcerated patches, I prefer, for the sake of obvious and easy distinction, to designate it as above. In the best marked instance in which I have seen it, and the preparation of which is before me, it occurred in the form of three large bands near the lower end of the ileum, extending transversely round the entire circumference of the bowel. The broadest of these bands is about two inches, the narrowest about eight lines. Over the whole of these spaces is the mucous membrane completely removed