MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 669 in which it depends partly on the increased number of vessels, partly on the effusion of lymph, which causes the mutual cohesion of its component filaments. When this is considerable, and takes place in a membrane lining a canal, it contracts its capacity, and forms what is named stricture ; (constrictio); (arctatio.) Though this may occur in any part of the mucous system, it is most com- mon in the lacrymal canal, the Eustachian tube, the oesophagus, near its upper or lower extremity, the rectum or lower part of the colon, and in the male urethra. The constriction, in such circum- stances, depends not unfrequently on the presence of some remain- ing degree of inflammation; and if this subside, the constriction may also partially diminish.* To its entire disappearance, how- ever, the absorption of the effused lymph is essentially necessary ; and in all probability this is never completely effected. In the in- testinal canal especially, this induration may be so great that the tissue of the tube becomes hard and firm like parchment or carti- lage, and at the same time much thicker than natural. The calibre of the canal then becomes so much contracted that nothing passes through it; and life is terminated, partly by inanition and deficient nutrition, partly by irritation. I have already alluded to partial contractions recorded by various authors, from Haase, Wincker, and Laubius, to Dr Combe and Willan. The most perfect ex- ample of total contraction with which I am acquainted is recorded by M. Tartra in his Essay on Poisoning by Nitric Acid. In an individual who died three months after swallowing this poison, the alimentary canal was reduced to so small volume, that it might have been held in the hollow of the hand. Its coats were shrivel- led, crisp, and indurated; and its calibre through its whole length did not exceed that of a common quill.f Under such circumstances, all the intestinal tissues suffer successively and simultaneously the effects of the inflammatory process; and the contraction is aug- mented by the violent and excessive stimulus which it applies to the muscular layer. That a similar change takes place in the mucous and submucous tissues of the bladder is shown by the observations of Guarinonius, Bonetus, Camerarius, Targioni, Morgagni,} Dr Barry,§ Dr Gil- Home. Ilowship, Practical Observations, p. 254. t Essai sur l’empoissonnement, &c. t EPist- iv. 13, 19. x. i3. xxii. 4. xxxix. 33. xl, 22. xli. 13. xlii. 20, 33, 34. xliii. 24. xliv. 15. xlviii. 32. xlix. 18. § Edinburgh Meil. Essays, Vol. i. p. 20G.