841 INFLAMMATION OF THE PANCREAS. unfortunate that Rahn, who has given the fullest collection of cases of induration of the pancreas, has not distinguished the disorder from scirrhus, properly so named, and has even given as instances of the latter, cases in which tumours, more or less ex- tensive, were formed from the mesenteric and meso-colic glands, and had then implicated the pancreas. It hence results, that it is impossible to attach to his history of symptoms that importance which a correct critical semiographical account deserves. It is im- portant to know, however, that he mentions the following as pre- sent in most of the cases. 1. Pains between the ensiform cartilage and navel, at one time occupying the middle region of the belly and stretching to the spine, and at another the right or left hypochondriac region. 2. Tumour in the same region, easily palpable by the finger, hard, moveable,, causing a sense of weight while the patient stands or walks, most painful above the lumbar vertebrae, with great precor- dial anxiety, especially after taking food or drink. 3. A sense of burning in the stomach, not temporary but constant, with a painful sense of soreness and heartburn spreading into the oesophagus, with frequent eructation of a watery, tasteless, or acid fluid which re- sembles saliva. 4. Constipation. 5. Anorexia, squeamishness; and, G. Eventually vomiting occurring at uncertain intervals’ bringing up ingesta and ropy phlegm ; and at length, 7. wasting (ta?es) aild hectlc fever with all their attendant symptoms. The chief objections to this history are, that the same series of symptoms is liable to take place in various disorders of the stomach the duodenum, and the liver ; that the pancreas is sometimes found’ indurated without any of these symptoms having taken place ex- cepting the pain and occasional vomiting; and that the circum- stance of palpable tumour is often wanting, and when present is not pathognomonic. ihe principal symptoms, judging from the cases recorded bv the best observers, arc deep-seated pain in the region of the stomach, more or less sickness, sometimes vomiting, with ema- ciation, general languor fever especial], in the night, and in gene- a yellow or jaundiced colour of the skin. The urine is in X 27 r ,;iXCOlOUred : a"d th”“«h *> bowels are get ,£h™ ,”t ’ T* JSPrptl° rPt°“S are twines ,U}d dkes Plucc and proceeds to a considerable decree anna y ma> salutM? Wedekind, who observed this symptom,