ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 85 ment than their mutual communications or inosculations, (anasto- moses.,) 01' this there may be two forms; the first when two equal trunks unite, the second when a large vessel unites with a smaller one. Of the first, three varieties have been mentioned. ls£, Two equal trunks may unite at an acute angle to form one vessel. Thus, in the foetus, the ductus arteriosus and the aorta are con- joined; and the two vertebral arteries unite to form the basilar trunk. 2d, Two trunks may communicate by a transverse branch, as the two anterior cerebral arteries do in forming the anterior segment of the circle of Willis. 3d, Two trunks may, by mutual union, form an arch, from the convexity of which the minute ves- sels arise, as is seen in the branches of the mesenteric arteries. The second mode of inosculation is frequent in the extremities, especially round the joints. The multiplied communications of the arterial system in these regions, though well known to anatomists, and enumerated by Haller, were first clearly and systematically explained by Scarpa, and afterwards by Cooper and Hodgson. The importance of this arrangement in facilitating the motions of the circulation, in obviating the effects of local impediment in any vessel or set of vessels, and in enabling the surgeon to tie an arte- rial trunk when wounded, affected with aneurism or any other dis- ease, has been clearly established by these authors. Their re- searches have shown that there is not a single vessel which may not be tied with full confidence in the powers of the collateral circu- lation. Even the aorta has been found contracted or obliterated, and its channel obstructed in the human subject in twelve instances, (Paris,* * * §) (Graham,f)(Winstone,t)(Otto,§) (Meckel,||) (Reynaud,^) * Retrecissement considerable de l’Aorte Pectorale, observe a l’Hotel Dieu de Pa- ris. Journal de Chirurgie. Par Desault. Tome II. p. 107. Paris, 1791. + Case of Obstructed Aorta. By Robert Graham, M. D., Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions, Vol. V. p. 287. London, 1814. + Surgical Essays. By Astley Cooper, F. R. S., and Benjamin Travers, F. R. S. Part T. p. 115. Third Edition. London, 1818. § Neue Seltene Beobachtungen zur Anatomie, Physiologie und Pathologie gehorig. Von Adolph Wilhelm Otto. Berlin, 1824. 4to. Dritter Abshnitt, C. XXIX. Seite 66. || Verschlicssung der Aorta am Viertel Brustwirbel. Von A. Meckel zu Bern. Ar- chiv fur Anatomie und Physiologie. Herausgegeben Von Johan Friederich Meckel 1827. Leipzig. Seite 345. U Observation d’une Obliteration presque complete de l’Aortc, &c. Par M. lley- naud. Journal Hebdomadairc de Medecine, Tome Premier, 1828. P. 161. Paris, ] 828.