487 BONE. scribes a peculiar sinking or condensation of the cancellated texture of the neck of the thigh-bone, occurring chiefly in aged subjects.* The affected part of the bone is highly vascular. In the only in- stance of this in my possession, the head of the bone has lost its spherical shape, and is flattened down upon the neck not unlike the pileus of a mushroom. The most internal part of its cartilaginous covering presents a series of holes passing into the cancelli. The neck is about one-third of its usual length, so that the head of the bone is lower than the great trochanter. This change must have been effected by the medullary vessels of the head and neck of the bone. 9. Angiectasis.—The arterial system of bones is liable to a pe- culiar abnormal development, in which they become much enlarged, and forming a cyst in the substance of the bone, gradually effect its absorption. Cases of this description I have already stated were observed by Pearson and Scarpa. Similar cases have occurred to . M. Lallemand and M. Breschet.f 10. Eburneoicl, or Ivory-like Induration.—This, which consists in bone acquiring extraordinary hardness, density, and closeness, is occasionally seen in bony tumour's, or exostosis, in bones which have been fractured, and sometimes in those of the skull, without evident morbid condition. In the case of Petit, however, an osse- ous tumour as large as a melon, and of the ivory aspect and con- sistence, was developed in the temporal bone.j A species of eburneoid or porcelain degeneration is liable to attack the articular extremities of bones after synovial rheumatism. An effusion of sero-albuminous fluid first takes place; and when this undergoes coagulation, it is found to contain some earthy mat- ter, which some have said is lithate of soda, and others carbonate of lime. After some time, by the motion of the articular surfaces, this deposit undergoes a degree of polish ; and the more the articu- lar surfaces are moved, the smoothness increases, communicating the aspect of ground-ivory, or porcelain. In some instances, also, the cartilages are worn or removed by absorption, as the effect of the same disease; and their place is in some degree supplied by this eburneoid or porcelain-like deposit. The subject shall be no- ticed under the head of the synovial membranes. * Essay on Interstitial Absorption of the thigh-bone,-Ed. 1824. t Repertoire Gen. de Breschet, T. ii. part 2d. Paris, 1826. 1 Maladies des Os, Tome ii. p. 292.