VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. 119 observed in the pulmonary artery and great veins only. Are they derived from the great sympathetic, as is generally said ? In the veins, as in the arteries, the anatomist recognises two extremities, the cardiac or collected, and the organic or the rami- fied. Examined physiologically, however, the terms origin and termination are not of the same import as when applied to the arteries. In reference to the veins, they become convertible terms; and it is the usage even of writers on anatomy to represent the veins as arising where the arteries terminate, and terminating at the organ from which the latter arise. This distinction must be kept in view in the following observations. The cardiac extremity or termination of the veins is so well known as to render any minute explanation unnecessary. The organic extremity or origin of the venous system is more obscure and difficult to he understood. It is indeed impossible to trace the origin of the small venous vessels, unless in the manner in which Leuenhoek,* William Cowper,f Henry Baker,J Haller and Spallanzani,ยง did in their observations on the transparent parts of animals in general cold-blooded. From the experiments of these observers, we know that a very small vessel, evidently tending and conveying blood towards a larger, connected with a venous branch, may he seen passing directly from a similar small vessel, as evi- dently conveying blood from a larger, which is connected with the arterial system. All that we know from this, however, is, that a vein containing red blood may rise from an artery conveying red blood. This is matter of pure observation, and all beyond is little more than conjectural. Haller, indeed, admits origins of veins as manifold as the termi- nations of the arterial system, a view in which he has been followed by almost all subsequent authors; and Bichat states it as a leading proposition, that the veins arise from the general capillary system. Neither conclusion is founded on strict observation; and while that of the former physiologist is derived chiefly from uncertain facts * Arcana Nat arte Detect. Opera Omnia, Tom. II. p. 160, 160. T I hilosophical Transactions, No. 280, p. 1179. Cowper saw this communication of arteries and veins not only in cold-blooded animals, as the lizard, tadpole, and fishes, but in the omentum of a young cat and a dog. + On Microscopes, and the discoveries made thereby. Two vols. 8vo. London, 1786. ยง Experiments on the Circulation of the Blood, By Lazaro Spallanzani. Trans- lated by W. Hall. London, 1001.