383 NERVOUS TISSUE. seen follow the communication of the inflammation of whitloe to one of the small branches of the radial nerve. 3. Ulceration of nervous tissue, though rare, may occur either after wound, laceration, or contusion of a nerve, as in the case of ligature, or in consequence of an ulcer of the contiguous parts spreading to the nerve. It does not appear to occur spontaneously after inflammation. 4. Division and Re-union; Excision or Removal, and Reproduc- tion. When a nerve is cut across, no doubt can be entertained that it is again reunited. But it is questionable whether it is re- united by simple adhesion, by-the growth of new nerve, or by the growth of new matter entirely different. The latter point has been a particular subject of inquiry to many anatomists and physiologists in the case of excision, or removal of portions of a nervous trunk. Though the nerves have been divided by many, the first accurate experiments made with a view to ascertain their reproductive power were performed by Cruikshank. This anatomist found, that, when a portion of nerve is removed by incision, its place is supplied by blood and lymph, which first becomes vascular and organized, and is afterwards converted into a substance of the same colour as nerve; and which, though not fibrous, he regarded as nervous.* These experiments were repeated by Fontana, who, after much hesitation, came to the conclusion that nervous matter is repro- duced by Arnemann, who denied that the new-formed matter is nerve by Haighton, who inferred that this substance is really and truly nerve ;ยง by Baronio,|| Michaelis,1f and Meyer,** who have arrived nearly at the same general result, and assert that nervous filaments may be traced through the new matter of the cicatrix. According to Arnemann, who describes the process of reunion particularly, shortly after section, the end of the upper portion of cut nerve inflames and swells, forming a grayish, long, and hard * Experiments on the Nerves, particularly on their Reproduction. By William Cruikshank, F. R. S. &c. Phil. Transactions, 1795. Part I. p. 177. t Experiences sur la Reproductions des Nerfs, apud Traite sur la Venin de la Vi- pere, &c. Par Felix Fontana. Tom. II. Florence, 1781,p. 177. $ Ueber die Reproduction der Nerven. Goettingen, 1786. Versuehe Ucber die Regeneration der Nerven. Ibid. 1787. ยง An Experimental Inquiry on the Reproduction of Nerves. By John Haighton, M. D. Philosophical Transact. Lond. 1795. Parti, p. 190. II Memorie de Matematica e Fisica, Yol. IV. U Fr. Michaelis Ueber die Regeneration der Nerven. Cassel, 1785 ** Meyer apud Reil Archiv. fur die Physiologie, II. Band. p. 449.