184 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. enlargement is an incipient morbid state, which will progressively terminate in another morbid state, which is distinguished by less equivocal organic characters. Pemberton formed a just notion of this enlargement or swelling of the splenic substance, when he said it might perhaps arise from a larger quantity of blood being con- veyed to it by the arteries, without, however, these arteries taking on that action, which is the essence of inflammation. In short, whatever be the remote cause or the material agent, the disease consists in unusual accumulation of blood in the organ, whether conveyed by arteries or not removed by veins ; and if this accumu- lation continues long, it will, under certain circumstances, render the organ unusually soft. When the capsule, which in such cir- cumstances is very tender, is broken, the substance of the spleen seems to consist of little else than a very soft brownish red mucus, intermixed with a spongy fibrous texture. This softening, as it may be named, appears to be caused by the immense quantity of blood in the vessels, producing a slow but severe disorganization or breaking down of the proper splenic tissue. (See Dr Bree’s paper.) Baillie thinks it is hardly to be considered as a disease; but this opinion, I fear, rests on no good foundation. In some circumstan- ces, to be afterwards specified, the structure of the spleen not en- larged is unusually soft, apparently from some cadaverous change; but the true softening of the enlarged organ is effected in the man- ner represented.* The symptoms of simply enlarged spleen are not well knowm. The patient usually complains of a sense of fulness rather than pain in the left side; in some instances pain is felt when the left side is examined or pressed; in others the pain is not perceived in the seat of the spleen, but at the lower part of the left side, inclining to- wards the back ;f and in others, the swelling may proceed to a very large size without causing any uneasiness whatever. In most cases the left hypochondriac region bulges out, and in some the enlargement, may be distinctly felt by the hand. The patient can only lie on the left side; the countenance is sallow, but not jaun- diced ; hemorrhages from the nose take place; and if it continues long, it may cause watery effusion within the peritoneum ; (ascites.) Indolent enlargement of the spleen may terminate in resolution, by subsiding spontaneously or under medical treatment, in soften- ing with emaciation or death, or in induration and incurable dropsy of the belly. * See note on Cooke’s Morgagni, Vol. II. p. 176. The spleen, a mass of gore. f Morgagni, lxv. 10.