1042 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. I merely observe that the general conclusion, which results from the history of all the cases recorded and their phenomena, as also from those which have fallen under my own observation, is, that, though black infiltration observed in coal-miners may exist without disease, or with little disease of the lungs, yet most com- monly it is associated with very considerable disease both of the bronchial membrane and lungs. The former is almost constantly in a state of chronic inflammation. In the latter there are often tubercles, vomicae, or indurated portions, sometimes stony concre- tions. The lungs are also emphysematous. The pleura is often adherent over the apex, sometimes all over. The coal dust is in- haled by all coal-miners, and is stated to be freely spit up daily and from time to time without inconvenience or injury. When, however, the bronchial membrane becomes inflamed, either from exposure to cold or the inhalation of stony particles, or in working at stony strata, then the evil becomes urgent. The lungs are often occupied by tubercles; and the diseased state of these and the bronchial membrane aggravates into most deleterious effects the inhalation of carbonaceous matter, which seems not to be of itself very detri- mental, unless it has been continued for a long time. CHAPTER II. The Heart. Section I. Structure of the Heart. The heart is a complex organ consisting of muscular fibres, ar- ranged so as to form its different chambers, covered externally by pericardium, and lined internally by a very delicate tiansparent membrane to which the name endocardium is given. The lattei is the only element requiring notice here. The endocardium is a very thin transparent membrane, which resembles much the inner membrane of the arteries, and which is composed, according to Ilenle, of four separate tunics. Its free surface is perfectly smooth, and is formed by a sort of epithelium, which is in immediate continuation with the epithelium of the ves- sels ; that of the right chambers with the venous epithelium ; that of the left with the pulmonary-venous and aortic epithelium. Next to this free or epithelial membrane is a layer of delicate and greatly