TRACI1EO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 601 the former cose, the substance of the organ, instead of being vesi- cular or spongy, becomes solid, compact, and impermeable to the A second sort of bronchial obliteration, differing from the pre- ceding one in its seat, is what is observed in bronchial canals of the fifth or sixth order, consequently very near their termination, and some lines from the pleura, yet in the interior of the parenchyma of the lungs. In this variety the obliteration takes place at a pait o the bronchial tube, where the area is still considerable enough to furnish divisions. But where the lung is divided, the tube is ob- served suddenly to terminate in a blind sac ; and beyond the point of obliteration, the bronchial tube is seen distinctly continuous, with a small firm, resisting cord, itself furnishing small ramifications, and easily detached by slight scraping from the rest of the lung. The bronchial tube may thus be traced to the -pleura. A third sort is that in which the obliteration is seated, as in the second, at a distance nearly equal from the pleura. The chief dif- ference is this, that while the second form can be recognized only by cautiously and gradually dividing the small bronchial tubes by means of delicate scissors, the present form is easily discovered by a common blunt probe, which, when introduced into the principal bronchus, is suddenly stopped, while, if carried into the neighbouring ramifica- tions placed at the same distance, it penetrates more forward. When the bronchus thus obstructed is laid open down to the site of obstruc- tion, it is observed that the obstruction is owing to an obliteration seated in a large tube, which, though near the surface of the lung, does not appear with the characters peculiar to dilatation of the bronchi. The obliterated bronchus is continuous with a fibrous <*ord ; but this is larger than in the preceding case, though its course to the pleura is not longer. To the disposition now mentioned is conjoined another referable to the surface of the lung, and which denotes the presence of the obliteration. This consists in more or less shrivelling of the pul- monic surface at the point corresponding to the seat of the oblite- ration. From this it is reasonable to infer that the shrivelling is in some manner connected with the bronchial obliteration. It is indeed not difficult to understand how the obliteration of a bronchus, not remote from the surface of the lung, involving that of the branches issuing from it, must, by the consequent contraction, pro- duce contraction or shrinking of the pulmonic substance, and