234 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. those in the middle between J;he hemispheres are straight, trans- verse, and parallel; and at one spot they are oblique and parallel. By means of these invariable characters of the cerebellic plates, the surface of the organ may be conveniently distributed into several divisions. To the cerebellic plates or their peculiarities, little attention was given before the time of Vincenzio Malacarne, professor of surgery in the city of Acqui, in the duchy of Montferrat. This learned person, the most diligent descriptive anatomist of his time, pub- lished in the year 1780 three treatises on the Anatomy of the Brain ;* in the third of which he describes with much precision and minuteness, the anatomical characters of the outer or laminated surface of the cerebellum. Some knowledge of his distinctions, which were adopted by Reil, is requisite to comprehend distinctly the configuration and structure of this part of the organ. Commencing with the well-known division of the whole organ in- to two hemispheres, Malacarne remarks, that, if the whole upper surface of the organ be presented to the eye, the outline of each he- mispherical surface is found to describe three-fourths of a circle; and as these circular segments mutually meet towards the mesial plane, where they are respectively adapted to different parts, the mode of union varies according to the figure of these adjoining ob- jects. lrf, As the hemispherical border approaches the anterior part of the organ, it is found to be suddenly interrupted, where the cerebellic branches or peduncles (crura cerebelli) are connected with the protuberance, and, pursuing a retrograde direction on each side towards the mesial plane, forms a species of re-entrant curvature. The hollow thus formed, which corresponds to the lower of the four eminences on the upper surface of the protuberance (corpora quad- rigcmina, Die Vierhugel,) is named by Malacarne the semilunar curvature,—(der halbmondformide Ausschnitt; Reil.) 2d, Again, as the hemispherical borders approach the posterior part of the small brain, advancing nearer to the mesial plane, they proceed, by an acute circular turn, almost straight backwards, so as to form, at the posterior edge of the organ, a deep rectangular notch, )_( not unlike the figure of the ancient lyre. This posterior hollow, in which is lodged the cerebellic vertical portion of the hard mem- brane (falx cerebelli,) is named by Malcarne the common perpendi- * Encefalotomia Nuova Universale di Vincenzo Malacarne, Saluzzese. Torino, 1780.