292 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. rebrale of Serres. One of the great uses of the proper or vascular membrane (pia mater') is to sustain and convey, as it were, the minute arteries into the substance of the brain. No artery, however mi- nute, enters this organ without previously passing through the pia mater ; and if the carotid and vertebral arteries be injected, the ce- rebral matter may be washed away entirely; while all the vessels^ by which it was traversed, are seen issuing from the attached surface and numerous processes of this membrane. The vessels thus de- monstrated consist of minute arteries and veins, through which, in the sound or normal state, the blood moves uniformly and easily without undergoing any permanent retardation. Dissection, how- ever, shows, that from various causes, either the whole of these ves- sels, or a certain cluster or set of them, may become inordinately distended with blood; while others, which, in consequence of con- veying colourless fluid previously, eluded observation, now becom- ing injected with red blood, are rendered visible. The existence of this state is proved by cutting into thin slices the brains of per- sons cut off in this condition, when numerous blood-drops follow each incision, and each part is penetrated by a much greater number of vessels than natural.* The exquisite or most perfect degree of this state is when the blood-drops enlarge immediately after inci- sion,—a circumstance from which a very inordinate quantity of fluid blood in the cerebral vessels is indicated, f This state of the cerebral vessels is similar to that of inflamma- tion. The patient is highly sensible to transitions of heat and cold; the skin is hot and dry; the tongue foul; the stomach disordered, and the urine high-coloured and sedimentous. The pulse is full and strong, sometimes hard, but not frequent. The local complaints are dull pain and weight of the head, occasional giddiness, indis- tinctness of vision, or dazzling of the eyes, and more or less aboli- tion of memory. When blood is drawn, I have found it present a thick, tough, bufly coat; an observation in which I find I am anti- cipated by Stoll J and Sir Gilbert Blanc. When the above phenomena have continued for a few hours, sometimes a day or two, according to circumstances, the individual falls down destitute of sense and motion, and continues so for a short time. After a little, recollection gradually returns, and with it sensation and the power of moving the limbs, though not with such freedom as before. A sense of tingling and numbness may * Morgagni passim, especially iii. and iv. -)- Morgagni epist. x. 17 and 18. + Ratio Med. Pars v. p. 31. Vienna:, 1789.