580 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, This, however, is no reason for confounding these affections in a work like the present, in which morbid processes are considered in an analytical manner, according to the individual elementary tex- tures which they affect. This analytical method leads to no error; and it enables the pathologist more clearly to understand the cha- racteristic differences of closely allied diseases. a. Tubular bronchitis. Bronchitis affecting the large and middle- sized air-tubes.—In tubular bronchitis, then, the inflammatory disorder is very much confined to the large and middle sized bronchial tubes; and as this disease as a primary affection is not often fatal, and is chiefly so by recurring frequently, or by the morbid action extending to the small tubes and the vesicles, itis not possible to speak accurately of its anatomical characters as an isolated affection. When in these circumstances the membrane is examined, it is found brown-coloured, sometimes dark red, rough, and swelled, with more or less contrac- tion of the area of the bronchial tubes. These tubes are lined by viscid jelly-like mucus, streaked with blood or embrowned. In some instances the mucus is puriform, yet adheres to the mem- brane. This form of bronchitis takes place not only in catarrh, but in the course of continued fever, of typhus fever, in measles, in scarlet fever, and in small-pox. It is also an invariable accompaniment of tubercular destruction in consumption, and is frequent in cases of diseased heart, especially hypertrophy and valvular disease. By frequent recurrence it is liable to produce symptoms of asthma, or to pass into chronic catarrh, with dyspnoea, or into dry catarrh. It then gives rise to winter cough. Tubular bronchitis may terminate in health by the gradual sub- sidence of the inflammation; in vesicular bronchitis by extending to the vesicular mucous membrane; in thickening of the tubular membrane and contraction of the tube, (stenochoria bronclwrum,) causing symptoms of asthma, breathlessness, and more or less chro- nic cough, aggravated especially in the winter, during cold weather, and on the accession of any slight cold ; in emphysema of the lungs with breathlessness; in oedema of the lungs; in serous effusion within the pleura (hydropleura; hydrothorax,) and in general dropsy. The formidable terminations last mentioned seldom take place until the disease has recurred several times; and as it is always liable to recur after the first attack, it necessarily renders the bronchial tubes less fit for the purpose of admitting air to the vesicles. In the bodies of those destroyed under this ad-