STEATOSIS OR GRANULAR DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY. 953 also to be observed, that while several of the appearances found in the kidneys after death denote unusual congestion of the cortical matter, in the early stage the symptoms of pain and weight in the region of the loins, dryness of the skin, and thirst, indicate the pre- sence of a febrile or inflammatory state of the system. M. Martin Solon regards the disease as a hyperemic, that is, a congestive inflammatory state of the kidneys, consequent on irrita- tion of their vessels from the use of stimulating drinks; and to this hyperemic state he ascribes all the early symptoms, and the sero- albuminous state of the urine.* The granular interstitial de- posit, and the yellow degeneration, he considers as the effect or remote consequence of the previous hyperemic state, for this reason, that the marks of hyperemia are still found associated with the yel- low degeneration. In some other passages of his work, however, he questions the necessary presence of inflammation in the disease. M. Rayer, entertaining no doubt of the inflammatory nature of the disease, applies to it the name of nephritis albuminosa, and dis- tinguishes it into two varieties, the acute and chronic. He is in- deed the most decided and confident advocate for the inflammatory nature of the disease that has yet appeared; and his views have been espoused, explained, and defended by his pupil, M. Littre. The chief grounds on which M. Rayer maintains the inflammatory na- ture of the fawn-coloured degeneration of the kidney are, the vas- cular redness of the gland in the early stage of the distemper, the enlai gement or swelling of the gland, the occasional presence of pain, and the general presence of feverishness; and at a later period the presence of vascular spots and patches, with the grayish or gray- yellow granular deposit. He is also of opinion, that the red points and spots seen in the substance of the kidney in the early stage of the distemper, (first form of M. Rayer,) in general correspond.to the glandules of Malpighi, greatly injected with blood. Dr Gulliver showed in 1843, that in kidneys affected by this disease, fatty globules and crystalline plates of cholesterine can be seen by the microscope; while Ur Davy obtained from them margarine, cholesterine, and a trace of oleine. | Gluge maintains, from microscopical examination of kidneys in this state, that the infiltrated matter is in general oil or fat. In the first form, which is that in which the surface of the kidney is yellowish with red points and millet-seed-like granulations, in- * De rAlbuminurie, &c. p. 258. t Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. lx. p. 1G2. Edinburgh, 1843.