GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 182 reddish, and had the appearance of being slightly thickened. The corresponding lung was crepitant and void of tubercles. Its pleura adhered to the costal pleura by means of soft recent albuminous bridles; and the lobes were connected in the same manner. The upper portion of the descending colon and the large end of the stomach adhered closely to the spleen. This organ was twice its ordinary size, and was of a crimson red colour at the margins. The portion of the abdominal peritoneum, corresponding to the posterior splenic surface, was raised by a white, thick, purulent, very fetid liquid, proceeding from the interior substance of the spleen, which was hollowed into a large abscess with purulent-lined walls. The contents had been effused between this serous mem- brane and the adjoining muscular layer, the vertebral column, and left kidney, and had extended to the crural arch. * It seems probable that this is an example of suppurative inflam- mation from the commencement. < In some instances of suppuration or abscess of the spleen, instead of one large abscess, several small ones are observed. These are probably of a more chronic character, and perhaps are indications of the strumous diathesis. A case, in which, in a young woman of 20, the spleen contained two circumscribed abscesses, is given by Dr Tweedie in his Illustrations of fever. In this case there were ulcers in the intestinal mucous membrane. Do these collections ever find their way to the surface by means of progressive absorption ? Fantoni gives an instance of one which had opened at the navel in a female, and who recovered her health and afterwards bore a child. Five years afterwards she died, and upon inspecting the body after death no trace of spleen was found. The following case is given by Grottanelli. A Franciscan monk, aged sixty-seven, a sufferer from ague, was attacked, in the autumn of 1812, with pain in the region of the spleen, where was a hard painful swelling. At the end of eighteen days the pain was abated; but there appeared in the abdomen, near the linea alba, a considerable convex swelling with fluctuation. Three days after, under the use of anodyne plasters, an opening spontaneously took place; and there was discharged a fluid partaking of the character of steatomatous and albuminous matter. Of this forty-eight ounces were discharged the first day, and as much on each of the three fol- lowing days. At the end of thirty days the patient was well; the spleen was a little larger than natural, but without pain and un- * Breschet, Repertoire General d’Anatomie et dc Physiologie, Tome vii. p. 115.