830 general and pathological anatomy. Muller (1811) and Seguignol. In the cases by Scherer, Acrel, Heilman, in one by Sabatier, and in one by Boyer, the concretions were from the duct of Wharton. In the first case, these concretions give rise to an irregular swell- ing beneath the tongue, and form one variety of the disease named ranula. The size of this swelling varies according to the size of the stone, and may be from that of a pea to the size of a filbert, or even a walnut. In some rare instances they give rise to inflamma- tion and ulceration, and thus extricate themselves from the position in which they are confined. More frequently, however, they re- quire the aid of operation. In the case given by Sabatier, it ap- pears that the presence of the concretion in the duct of Wharton caused painful swelling of the submaxillary gland, and this seems to have given rise to more suffering and inconvenience than the immediate swelling caused by the tumour. Two concretions were in this case removed by two separate and successive operations.* Boyer tells us that in a similar case in which the submaxillary gland was likewise swelled, he cured the swelling of the gland by extracting an oblong stony concretion, one extremity of which projected a little beyond the orifice of the duct of Wharton. I may here mention that salivary concretions are occasionally found in the lower animals. Grognier records two cases of this lesion. In one a concretion weighing 6 drachms was found in the Steno- nian duct of a mule; in another a concretion weighing 13 drachms was found in the Stenonian duct of an ass.f The chemical constitution of these concretions has been several times examined. They consist of carbonate and phosphate of lime coated with animal matter, with traces of muriate of soda. § 9. Ranula.—Of this disease it would be unnecessary to say any more, were the terms not employed to designate more than one morbid affection. To every tumour, in short, appearing beneath the tongue, the denomination of ranula is given. Munnicks, Louis, and after him Boyer, espoused the opinion that the swelling de- pended on an accumulation of saliva in the duct of Wharton. But the main point was, why did the saliva accumulate ? Boyer was of opinion that this was caused by obstruction at the outlet of the ducts, or obliteration of those outlets. In point of fact, there * Sabatier, Medecine Operatoire. -j. Grognier in Sceance de l’Ecole Veterinaire. Journal de Medecine continue, 1810, Dec, p. 504.