501 SKIN. or sebaceous glands, (glandules sebacece.) Oi these sacs the struc- ture is simple. They appear to consist simply ot hollow surfaces secreting an oleaginous fluid, which is progressively propelled to the orifice, where it soon undergoes that partial inspissation which gives it the sebaceous or suet-like aspect and consistence. In the negro races the secretion exhales a peculiar strong odour ; and in the fair or red-haired European races the odour is also strong. The corion is liberally supplied with blood-vessels, nerves, and absorbents. After a successful injection, its outer surface appears to consist of a uniform net-work of minute vessels, subdivided to an infinite degree of delicacy, and containing during life blood coloured and colourless. It can scarcely be doubted that this vascular net- work (retc vasculosum) is the only texture corresponding to the reticular body of the older anatomists. It is well known that this membrane when boiled sufficiently long is converted into a viscid glutinous liquor, which consists chiefly of gelatin, (Chaptal, Seguin, Hatchett, Vauquelin, &c.) and that glue is obtained in great quantity from it for the purposes of art. As, however, in these operations a portion of matter is left undissolved, and as glue is completely soluble in water, while skin resists it for an indefinite time, it may be concluded, that though the chief con- stituent of the corion is gelatin, it is under some peculiar modifi- cation not perfectly understood. The union of this organized gelatin with the vegetable principle denominated tannin forms leather, which is quite insoluble in water. Cuticle or scarf-skin, (epidermis, cuticula), is a semitransparent, or rather translucent layer of thin light-coloured matter, extended continuously over the outer surface of the corion. Its thickness varies, being thinnest on those parts least exposed to pressure and fric- tion, but thickest in the palms and soles. It is destitute of blood- vessels, nerves, and absorbents; and there is reason to believe, from observing the phenomena and process of its reproduction, that it is originally secreted in the form of a semifluid viscid matter by the outer surface of the corion ; and that, as it is successively worn or removed by attrition, it is in like manner repaired by a constant process of secretion or deposition. This semifluid viscid matter, which, in point of fact, is found between the outer surface of the corion and the firm cuticle, appears to be the substance men- tioned by Malpighi, and so often spoken of as the mucous body or net; (corpus mucosum,) It is certainly quite inorganic ; and it