GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1002 On the exact source and pathological causes of spitting of blood, physicians entertained either erroneous or indistinct ideas. The ancients ascribed it to rupture of some of the pulmonary vessels; and this opinion was adopted by many practitioners, and is still en- tertained by the vulgar, to whom this disease has been long known by the name of rupture of a blood-vessel. This opinion, however, is manifestly contradicted by anatomy and by observation. In mo- dern times this opinion regarding the pathology of pulmonary hemorrhage is found to be correct in two cases only; first, when an aneurismal tumour or a diseased artery bursts into the air tubes (bronchia,) or the windpipe ; and secondly, when an arterial branch passing through a tubercular excavation has given way during the progress of ulceration. Neither of these cases, it is obvious, are necessarily connected with true pulmonary hemorrhage. Both are followed by immediate or very speedy destruction. But the process of haemoptysis may recur from time to time during mouths or years in the same individual, or even the whole of a long life; yet with- out being the direct cause of death. In modern times, the opinions on the nature of pulmonary he- morrhage may be referred to two heads. According to one of these views, haemoptysis is the result of an actual wound or breach in the bronchial or mucous membrane of the lungs. This was the opinion of Barry, Grant, Gilchrist, and even of Cullen, if we un- derstand him aright. According to the other view, which is more recent, haemoptysis is believed to depend on some disorder of the bronchial membrane, and its exhalant vessels; in consequence of which they discharge blood instead of mucus. This opinion was that of Bichat, who has been followed by all the physicians of the Parisian school, and by many in this country. This opinion is, as I have already showm, well-founded within certain limits only. There are cases of haemoptysis in which the bronchial membrane and its capillaries only or principally are affected; and then the blood which is occasionally coughed up is the result of exhalation, or of destination, as it used to be named by the older pathologists. Such are the discharges of blood which take place in slight cases of haemoptysis or pulmonary catarrh, about the termination of pe- ripneumony, about the commencement of consumption, and in young females after the suppression or retention of the menstrual discharge. There are, however, many instances of bleeding from the lungs