INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—FOLLICULAR DISEASE. t>23 Though these patches, which are in the follicles isolated and agmi- nated, may occur in any part of the small or large intestine, they are most common at the termination of the ileum, in w 1C 1 seated in the agminated patches of glands, and tie eginnina the colon, where they are in isolated follicles. Fi om petec ia an eccliymotic blotches, with which they are liable to he con oun > they may be distinguished by the blood being observed m pieces of intestine held up to the light to be still contained within vessels. (Latham.) These red patches are exceedingly prone to proceed to ulceration, which takes place in one or more points near their centre, and by extension and coalition produce in no long time a breach in the continuity of the mucous corion equal in size to the original patch. This is the form of disease desci ibed fii st by Piost, then by MM. Petit and Serres under the name Entero-mesenteric fever, and which, there is reason to believe, is occasionally epidemic in Paris.* Of the same nature is the disease which was prevalent iii the Millbank Penitentiary during 1822 and 1823. According to the description of Dr Latham, the patches, which most frequently were circular, and not exceeding the diameter of a pea, were dispersed at intervals through the whole tract of the intestines. These were evidently in the isolated follicles. When larger and more irregu- lar, they appear to have been the result of the coalescence of seve- ral small patches; and were most likely in the agminated glands. The transition to ulceration in this instance consisted in the redden- ed mucous membrane becoming elevated, rough, and unequal to the touch, and in erosion taking place at several points.f 4. A considerable extent of the membrane may be diffusely red or reddish brown, or with a general rose-coloured ground may present red or brown patches of a more intense tint. The mem- brane is at the same time soft, friable, pulpy, and often thickened; the mucous glands are enlarged and reddish ; and the membrane is covered more or less extensively by thick, semi-opaque viscid mucus of a reddish or wine-coloured tint. This form of the dis- ease is also said to proceed to ulceration. When it does so, the process takes place not only in spots and patches of the mucous membrane, but in the follicles, which are converted into a number of oval reddish-brown ulcers. 5. Part of the intestinal mucous membrane may present nume- rous vesicular or pustular elevations, not unlike thrush vesicles * Traite de la Fievre Entero-mesenterique, p. 13. Paris, 1813. t An Account of the Disease, &c. p. 48.