BRAIN. 287 By Bonetus this affection of the cerebral substance was believed to precede and to cause the discharge from the ear. Although this idea was refuted by Morgagni, who regards the cerebral abscess as consecutive to the ear-discharge, especially its suppression, it has been revived by Mr Brodie, who seems to think the affection of the brain coeval with that of the ear. I shall afterwards show that the internal affection, to which Bonetus and Mr Brodie ascribe this character, and which they think causes the ear-discharge, is disease either of the tympanal cavity, or of the dura mater investing the temporal bone. The inflammation which terminates in abscess of the cerebral substance is the effect of inflammation of the mem- branes, . and in some instances of the discharge being suddenly checked, and the chronic external inflammation being suddenly con- verted into an acute internal disease. It is generally remarked to succeed quickly the suppression or the disappearance of the ex- ternal discharge. This, which was the opinion of Morgagni, is proved by the cases of Mr Brodie, Mr Parkinson, Dr O’Brien, and Dr Duncan. 2d, That it does not exist from the origin of the discharge may be inferred when the patient is suddenly attacked with acute deep pain in the head, intolerance of sound, and deli- rium, quickly followed by insensibility and coma. 3d, It is impro- bable that a disease, commencing with the acute symptoms to which the formation of this abscess can generally be traced, should be going on for years without deranging more considerably the faculties of sensation, thought, and motion. This disease is generally observed in young subjects of the habit named strumous. So far as I have observed or read, though it takes place in one of two modes, either as an extension of the ori- ginal disease of the ear and cerebral membranes, or an alternating and vicarious result, the latter is most frequently its genuine cha- racter. The abscess is contained in an irregular cavity, surround- ed by lymph and cerebral matter, which is very vascular. It is in all cases attended with inflammation, thickening, and suppuration of the membranes. The pia mater is highly vascular, and more or less covered with lymph. The dura uiater is thick, opaque, dark-coloured, and detached from the bone. The variety of abscess now mentioned is understood to depend upon the operation of internal causes only. At least no external cause can be recognized; and if it were, it would be such as in other subjects would perhaps be inadequate to the effect. There