GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 818 aperture conspicuous in the temporal bone, from which then the fluid proceeding backwards by a linear path had dropped into the space mentioned in the petrous portion of the temporal bone.* This case, however, merely shows, that when extensive suppura- tions take place in certain situations and in particular constitutions, the matter may find its way into or among important and essential organs. In almost all these cases of suppuration in the parotid region, the gland does not itself suppurate, hut remains as described by Monteggia, shrunk, dry, hard, and apparently atrophied. § 2. The parotid gland and its companion are liable to strumous transformation and infiltration, to chronic induration, to hypertro- phy, to scirrho-carcinoma, and to melanosis. In ordinary circumstances enlargement of the parotid is most commonly strumous or dependent on chronic inflammation. In either case, a tumour variable in size is formed at the auriculo- temporal region, a little above the angle of the jaw. When this swelling is of strumous origin, it usually causes secondary inflam- mation and suppuration of the surrounding cellular tissue and the incumbent skin; one opening or two may take place; and for a considerable time a thin serous or sero-purulent discharge conti- nues. Usually the gland is not itself much or seriously affected be- yond the swelling caused by infiltration of its ducts and acini. In certain cases, however, the gland or its ducts seem to pass into the ulcerative stage ; and a long continued sore with a salivary fistula is the result. In other cases the ulcerative communication appears to be established between Steno’s duct only and the surface. Ul- cers and fistulse of this kind were seen by Hildanus ;f and Chesel- den states, that he saw patients with the gland ulcerated, and caus- ing a constant effusion of saliva, till, he adds, the greatest part of the gland was consumed by the use of red precipitate.^: It is not easy to imagine the gland, that is the substance of the gland, to be much consumed in this manner or by this agent, without more serious effects. But we may admit that the remedy, by inducing a new and more decided action, and enabling the most healthy * .Toannis Baptistae Monteggia Fasciculi Pathologic!. Turici Helvetiortim, 1793. 8vo, p. 17. -(■ One in a young man of 12. Observat. Chirurgic. Centuria V. Obs. lxxx. Op. Omnia Francofurti ad Moenum, 1646. Folio. P.471. + The Anatomy of the Human Body. Book iii. Chapter iii. p. 142. London, 1704, the 12th edition.