TRACHEOBRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 575 brane is, according to the same authority, less frequently ul- cerated ; but when not so, it is almost invariably reddened. 8. Ulceration of the Tracheal Membrane and Cartilages. This is not a very frequent lesion, hut it is liable to take place. It is seen mostly in the posterior surface of the trachea; and though probably it may take place in several points, yet I have never seen more than one or at most two ulcers, one generally large. No doubt can he entertained that ulcers of this kind are the result of inflammation attacking the mucous membrane of the trachea ; but on the early history of these ulcers we possess no correct informa- tion. The following details will convey some idea of the appear- ance and characters of these ulcers. In one case, taking place in a man of about 48 or 50 years of age, the individual suffered much from constant difficulty of deglu- tition, a sense of soreness and rawness in the throat, great hoarse- ness, cough, difficult breathing, and scanty expectoration occasion- ally streaked with blood. All solids and fluids caused during de- glutition much suffering, and a feeling of impending suffocation; and the patient of his own accord requested food of a semifluid character. Even this was swallowed with little less difficulty, and with much of the gasping and suffocating feeling. Soon after death took place. The laryngeal mucous membrane was red, thickened, and co- vered with a considerable quantity of thick puriform mucus. This was abundant in the sacculi between the superior and inferior vo- cal chords. The laryngeal mucous membrane presented abrasions and ulcerations. The epiglottis was thickened, reddened, rigid, and ulcerated at its apex. The tracheal membrane was very much red- dened, and as if roughened. About one inch and a half below the cricoid cartilage, immediately above the bifurcation of the trachea on the posterior surface, was first one elliptical ulcer, then another smaller, both with the long axis in the long direction of the wind- pipe. The first ulcer was about three-fourths of one inch or nearly one inch long; the other about one-fourth of an inch long. Both were formed by total destruction of the mucous membrane and part of the sub-mucous tissue ; and the base of the ulcer was formed by part of that connecting the windpipe to the oesophagus. The edges of both were ulcerated, irregular, and ragged, and consisted of jagged points; but this was caused by the projection of the extremities of the cartila- ginous rings, which were cut right across, and being less destroyed t lan the connecting mucous membrane, left between them hollow spaces. I he cartilages also projected into the interior of the trachea,