940 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. after the interval of three or four years, during which the indivi- dual recovered his health so far as to be able to marry, he was at- tacked with symptoms of intense inflammation of the chest, he ex- pectorated fetid sanious reddish purulent matter, and had most la- borious breathing; and eventually he died hectic. It was then found that the left kidney was dilated into a large sac or cyst with- out any trace of the original gland; the ureter was distended to the size of the small intestine, and was filled with purulent matter; a large aperture was found in the diaphragm, forming a direct communication between the left kidney and the lower lobe of the left lung, which was destroyed, with the lower part of the upper lobe* a. A seventh mode in which the renal abscess may procure an issue for its contents is into and through the liver or spleen, the right kidney by the former, the left by the latter, towards the sur- face. This mode of termination, which is assigned by Peter Prank, is received with doubt by Chomel. It may be observed, however, that Mr Howship gives in his eighth case, (p. 47), the history of an attack of inflammation of the right kidney, in which a large abscess of the right kidney pointed over the region of the liver, and was there opened, and discharged five pints and a half of matter; and though after death, which took place forty-two days after the ope- ration, the substance of the liver was found healthy, its inferior sur- face was united by adhesion to the superior extremity of the right kidney. h. In the eighth place, the matter of the renal abscess may open a path for itself posteriorly through the back part of the pelvis or ureter or kidney, and the dorso-lumbar cellular tissue, muscles, and fasciae, so as to point on one or other side of the spine. Of all the modes of proceeding outward, this is the one which has been most frequently observed; and as it has often suggested to surgeons the expediency of making an incision in suspected cases of renal concretion, it is chiefly in the writings of surgeons that accounts of it are given. L Of this mode of issue, instances arc recorded by Fantoni, lulpius,f | Job a Meek’ren,$ Cheselden,§ Petit. || The concretion giving rise to ulceration, first of the kidney or its * Ratio Medendi, Tom. x. p. 103. + iv. chap. 27. t Cap- xliv. § Anatomy, Book iv. chap. 1. || Oeuvres Posthumes, iii. p. 73, and in the Memoirs of the Academy of Clhirurgcry, ii. p. 233.