78 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Ladled and the component threads separated from each other; and if it be less distinct in the smaller branches, it is because the tissue on which the colour depends is here considerably thinner. In this respect it varies in different regions. Though in general less dense and abundant as the arteries recede from the heart, it is thicker, ccetei'is paribus, in those of the lower than in those of the upper ex- tremities. In the vertebral and internal carotid arteries, and in those distributed in the substance of the liver, spleen, &c. it is thinner than in vessels of the same size in the muscular interstices. The nature of this tissue has been the subject of much contro- versy. It was long believed to be muscular, and to possess the pro- perties of muscular fibre. Bichat showed that the arguments by which this opinion was supported are inconclusive, and that the ar- terial tissue has very few qualities in common with the muscular. The circumstances from which he derived his proofs were its phy- sical and physiological properties. The arguments derived from the physical properties of this tis- sue are chiefly the following. The arterial tissue is close, elastic, fragile, and easily divided by ligature; muscular fibre is more loose in structure, by no means elastic, and, instead of being divided or cut by ligature as artery is, undergoes a sort of strangulation. The action of alcohol, diluted acids, and caloric, by means of hot fluids, which are not corrosive, affords a proof of the chemical dif- ference of these animal substances. All of them produce, in the arterial tunic, a species of shrivelling or crispation, which seems to depend on more complete coagulation of one of the chemical prin- ciples ; but no similar effect takes place in muscular fibres. Ac- cording to Berzelius the proper arterial tunic contains no fibrine.* Beclard, however, asserts, that he has ascertained that it contains a portion of this principle; but nevertheless hesitates to consider it as a muscular or fibrinous tissue, and expresses his opinion, that it would be with greater propriety referred to that order of substan- ces which he has named yellow or tawny fibrous system. The consideration of the physiological or organic properties leads to similar results. Neither mechanical or chemical agents applied as stimulants produce any change or motion in the living arterial membrane. 1. The arteries of an amputated limb, exposed the moment after amputation, while the muscles are in active motion, * A View of the Progress of Animal Chemistry. By J. J. Berzelius, M. D. Ac. Ac. London, 181.1. Pp. 24, 25.