301 BRAIN. Howship furnishes a curious case of extravasation into the medulla oblongata, in which parallel layers of blood were deposited trans- versely in the substance of the part.* (Case 20.) Genuine hemorrhage of the brain, as now described, though is- suing from the capillaries, is thought not to take place by exhala- tion.! It is never possible to trace it to a single vessel; and he- morrhage from rupture of an arterial trunk, though producing the same symptoms, belongs anatomically to a different head. Cheyne,| and more recently Lerminier and Serres, appear to have found al- ways many minute capillaries opening into the hemorrhagic cavity. On the greater frequency of affection of the right side of the brain nothing very satisfactory has been ascertained. Morgagni believing it, ascribes it to the greater frequency with which the muscles of the right side are used than those of the left. In 41 cases, however, given by Rochoux, the number in the left was 18, that in the right 17, and that in both sides 6, which proves that this cannot be established with any precision. It is important to ascertain the influence which bloody effusion in different parts of the brain, exerts on the functions of sensation, voluntary motion, and the muscles of respiration. For there is reason to believe, that, according as congestion or hemorrhage takes place in the hemispheres, in the striated bodies, in the annular pro- tuberance, in the cerebellum, or in the medulla oblongata, the effects produced will be palsy, or apoplexy more or less violent, and with different degrees of lethargic or comatose affection. The inquiry is beset by this difficulty, that not the extravasation, but the injec- tion, is the essential cause of death. Scarcely a part of the brain has been found unaffected in fatal cases. It is certain that effusion into the white matter of the hemispheres, and into the striated nucleus, is not essentially and invariably fatal, unless from the'size of the rent in the brain and the amount of blood effused. For from cases of this kind temporary recovery has taken place. Neither is the in- ference of Bichat, that effusion into the protuberance is invariably fatal, well-founded. Tacheron records a case in which temporary recovery was effected. It must he admitted, nevertheless, that ef- fusion into this part is more likely to be fatal than into any other. I he cases of Serres afford the explanation of this fact, by showing, that injury done to the protuberance causes a severe and permanent Practical Observations on Surgery and Morbid Anatomy, &c. By John Howship. London, 1B16. + Bichat, Anatomic Generale, Tome II. article iii. p. 279. 7 Cases of Apoplexy and Lethargy. !lvo, London, 1812.