439 BONE. In the skull, the parietal bones are well-formed shells of bone, though very deficient at the mesial plane, the anterior margin, and the upper anterior angle. The pericranium is distinctly membra- nous and vascular; and the red jelly-like fluid noticed by Mr How- ship is exterior to this membrane. At the period of birth, the cylindrical bones contain tubular canals filled with a colourless glairy fluid, and terminating in the surface of ossification. As the bones previous to this period are homogeneous, and contain no distinct medullary cavity, but present in their interior a soft or loose bony texture, it is reasonable to sup- pose that the development of the longitudinal canals is connected with the formation of the medullary cavity. At birth in the femur may be distinguished a medullary cavity beginning to be formed, about half a line broad, but still very imperfect. After birth the two processes of the formation of tubular canals I and medullary cavity go on simultaneously; and at the same rate nearly the outer part of the cylindrical bones acquires a more dense and compact appearance. The epiphyses, also, which are in the shape of grayish jelly-like masses, begin to present grains and points of bone. Preliminary to this, Mr Howship represents them, while still cartilaginous, as penetrated by canals or tubes, which gradually disappear as ossification proceeds. The carpal and tarsal bones ap- pear to observe the same course in the process of ossification. In the bones of the skull, however, a different law is observed. The osseous matter is originally deposited in linear tracts or fibres, radiating or diverging from certain points termed points of ossifi- cation. Each bone is completed in one shell without diploe or dis- tinguishable table. Afterwards, when they are completed late- rally, or in the radiating direction, the cancellated arrangement of the diploe begins to take place, apparently in the same manner, in which the medullary cavity and compact parts of the long bones are formed. It has been generally supposed that the formation of cartilage is a preliminary step to that of bone. This, however, seems to be a mistake arising from the circumstance, that cartilage is often ob- served to be converted in the living body into bone. Neither in the long nor in the flat bones is anything like cartilage at any time observed. Ihe epiphyses, indeed, present something of the con- sistence ot cartilage, but it has neither the firmness nor the elasti- city ot that substance. It is a concrete jelly, afterwards to be pe-