NERVOUS TISSUE. 369 the lower margin of the seventh cervical vertebra, or about the le\ cl of the first rib, begin to be united by the component threads of each nerve. Threads of the fifth and sixth cervical unite, some- times to form a single chord; in other instances to be connected a short space onward with threads of the seventh cervical in a similai manner. The seventh and eighth form two kinds of union. When the seventh is large, it divides almost equally into tw'o chords or branches, one of which is connected first with the fifth and sixth, afterwards with the eighth, and with the first dorsal by interlace- ment of minute nervous threads. The other either passes down- ward to form one of the separate brachial nerves, or is also con- nected with the eighth cervical and first dorsal in a plexiform i manner. From this arrangement immediately arise the individual nervous branches which form the nerves of the arm, and which are named brachial nerves. The interlacement of minute nervous threads be- tween the seventh and eighth cervical, and the first dorsal, is what Scarpa has termed the plexus minor. He says it is peculiar, in be- ing quite uniform, and in connecting those nervous branches which, from their subsequent destination, are called Median and Ulnar. This description, though not generally applicable, will commu- nicate some faint idea of the nervous unions and interlacements termed plexus or weavings. For more minute information on the distribution, arrangement, and configuration of this part of the nervous system, I refer to the work of Scarpa already quoted.* Plexiform arrangements are not confined to the exterior regions of the body. They are more numerous internally ; and almost all the organs of the chest and belly have each a plexus, sometimes two, from which they derive their nervous chords. Plexiform arrangements are generally situate in the neighbour- hood of blood-vessels, and in some instances inclosing considerable arterial trunks more or less accurately. Thus the axillary plexus surrounds the axillary artery. The coeliac artery is surrounded with the solar plexus; and the coronary, hepatic, splenic, supe- rior mesenteric, and renal, are also surrounded with plexiform nervous filaments. In some instances these nervous filaments are so intimately connected with the arterial tubes as to lead some * Annotation. Anatom. ยง 9. cap. iii. pp. 94, 95.