GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 622 flammatory enlargement. In one the mucous membrane is mostly affected. It swells up, becomes dry at first, then is covered with viscid thick mucus adherent to it, while the pore of the follicle is more or less obstructed in consequence of the swelling. When this continues long, it is liable to induce abrasion of the mucous membrane or even ulceration. Yet this does not appear often to take place in this sort of affection of the follicles. The swelling may subside, and the follicle or follicles recover their previous ap- pearance and qualities. In the second form, in which the fine cellular tissue is most af- fected, it is very different. The tissue is raised and swelled out, becomes firm, tough, and often assumes a buff or yellow colour, which shows that it is dying or dead. In short this follicular cel- lular tissue is very easily killed, and then forms a slough below the mucous membrane. The latter, however, being deprived of its support and nutrition, likewise dies, is cast off as a superficial slough, while below there is one more deep. This also is cast off, and a deep ulcer is left, which is almost invariably very difficult to be healed, and which often does not heal, but, by weakening the bowel, causes perforation of the peritoneal coat. These are forms of inflammation comparatively chronic, that is, lasting from three to six weeks. 1. The simplest form is that in which the mucous surface is light reddish, or rose-coloured over a large extent,—an appearance which depends on superficial injection of the villous membrane. The villi are red, and more or less gorged with blood. This state, besides producing copious mucous or sero-gelatinous discharges, is very often the pathological cause of intestinal hemorrhage. In some instances it is shaded from a light rose to blood-colour or wine-coloured crimson. 2. The intestinal membrane may be marked by redness disposed in various forms, arborescent, asteroid, or punctular, or in slender linear streaks. These appearances may occur independent of in- flammation, as an effect of transudation, or stagnation during the last hours of existence or after death, and should therefore be dis- tinguished from the same forms of redness in connection with the inflammatory process, when they indicate a slight or incipient form of it. 3. A common form is in red or brown patches, irregular in size and shape, with sensible elevation above the surrounding mem- brane, forming a sort of puffy swelling, the surface of which is rough and irregular, and, though not, hard, void of its natural feel.