GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 434 animal matter. Is the carbonic acid said to be united with lime also not a result of the decomposition of the animal matter ? The other saline substances are not peculiar to hone, but being common to it and the other animal tissues, and even the fluids, may be sup- posed, without much injustice, to be derived from the blood left in the bone at the moment of death. The cylindrical bones of the extremities contain more earthy matter than those of the trunk; the bones of the upper extremity contain more earthy matter than the corresponding hones of the lower extremity ; and the bones of the head contain considerably more earthy matter than the hones of the trunk.* It is most difficult to say what is the nature of the animal matter of bones. At one time it was presumed to be cartilage ; but this appears to he a mere assumption, derived from the superficial re- semblance which it bears to this substance. It does not appear to be mere gelatine ; for though this principle is obtained in quantity from bone, and bones are economically used in manufacturing glue, they do not furnish the same proportion of jelly as tendon, nor are they so useful in making soups, as wTas once paradoxically and ab- surdly enough maintained by some chemists. It is probable that the gelatine, as we have already stated, is under a peculiar modi- fication, or combined with some principle which is not well under- stood. Is there no albumen in this animal matter ? The sulphur formed during calcination seems to show that there is. There is no fat in bones; and in the experiments in which this substance has been found, it is evident that it was merely marrow which had been mingled with the bones employed, or which had not been removed. Though bones were arranged by the ancients among the blood- less organic substances, they receive a considerable proportion of this fluid, and injection shows them to be highly vascular. In early life, especially, these vessels are numerous; and even in the grown adult, when death takes place by strangulation or by drowning, the bones are found to be naturally well injected. In old age the vessels arc less numerous, but they are larger. I rom the capillary vessels distributed through their substance, bones derive the pale blue or light pink colour by which the healthy bone is characterized. When this tint becomes intense, it indicates inflammation or some morbid state of the vessels of the bone. When it is lost, and the bone assumes a white or yellow colour, the part so changed is dead. Anatomists distinguish three orders of vessels which enter the substance of bones; the first, those which penetrate the bodies o * On the Proportions of Animal and Earthy Matter, &c. By G. 0. Rees, M. !*• Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. XXL p. 406. London, 1838.