GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 140 less accelerated; the vascular walls, especially the arterial, are more or less tense ; the blood is variously altered ; the’extent of the pro- cess varies; in certain cases it is directly proportional to its inten- sity, and in others it is not. The extent of congestions is usually limited ; and their develop- ment is completed within a short time. When congestion has attained a certain point, it remains station- ary. It then attains the second stage. This is not distinguished by any new phenomenon. The pheno- mena of congestion are already established; and those that are essential are, afflux of blood to one point; acceleration in the move- ment of the blood; extension of the process little beyond its initial point; the functions of the organ embarrassed; swelling of the 'parenchyma ; and alteration in the globules. This condition must not be confounded with certain derange- ments in the circulation which imitate some of the phenomena of congestion. These derangements are irregular and proceed from the local action of any irritant, the effect of which is slight and temporary. Sometimes, however, these derangements are follow- ed by congestion ; and this is when these irritant agents act more intensely and for a longer time. The development of true congestion is a successive process, and takes place only when the immediate action of the irritant cause has ceased to act on the organ. When congestion has lasted some time it decreases and termi- nates in the following manner. The amount of blood and the velocity of its movement begin to diminish at the circumference ; the blood seeming to flow from this region towards this centre. The blood during the course furnishes an exhalation of fluid, which takes place in jets through the capil- lary vessels, and in general at the surface of the organ. The mo- ment of the exhalation of the liquid is transitory; but it is often repeated at different points until the congestion disappears. It is critical, because the congestion subsides in proportion as it is re- peated and proceeds. The quality of the secreted matter varies according to the nature of the affection. It is often bloody, espe- cially in the lower animals. The products of critical exhalation may always be easily seen. They consist of small red patches dis- persed through the parenchyma. In some instances serous fluid is discharged through the blood-vessels; and in this case the liquid being transparent is not so easily observed.