CEREBRAL SEROUS MEMBRANE—MENINGITIS. 721 ritoneal, in which the effusion of the contents of the tube neces- sarily produce inflammatory exudation. For a case illustrating this mode of progress, I refer to Howship, p. 264. § 5. Meningitis and Arachnitis.—These two affections are gene- rally combined,—in other words, inflammation of the pia mater is generally accompanied with that of the arachnoid membrane. It assumes acute, subacute, and chronic forms. The acute and subacute forms constitute the disease described by practical authors under the name of water of the head, water of the brain, hydrocephalus, and hydrencephalus. This inference, which was originally advanced by Quin, and adopted by Rush and Garnet, was first verified by Cheyne, and has been since amply con- firmed by the inspections of Gobs, the inquiries of Dr Blackall, of Dr Ayre, Dr Abercrombie, the dissections and researches of Pa- rent-Duchatelet, Martinet, and Senff. The proofs collected by these authors, it is unnecessary, after the general remarks already submitted, to detail. From the account also of the distribution of the proper cerebral membrane, it is easy to explain the necroscopic phenomena of hydrocephalic brains. The natural result of this distribution is, that when the membrane is inflamed, and its vessels in consequence secrete watery fluid, while that from the outer divi- sion is deposited beneath the arachnoid coat, that of the inner trickles from the membrane, on tbe figurate surface of the brain, or in the ventricles, in which its effects are in proportion to its quantity. If small, it produces little change on the parts of the brain. If co- pious, it raises the vault, pushes out the walls of the ventricles, en- larges their capacity and dimensions, breaks down the median sep- tum, forming a large communicating aperture, and may ultimately extrude the substance of the organ, and render it so thin as to give it the appearance of a mere bag, containing a considerable quantity of water. In some instances fluid is not found in the ventricles. The pia mater and plexus, however, are highly injected; the arachnoid is opaque, dull, and dry-looking; and the subarachnoid tissue is in- filtrated. This demonstrates that the symptoms of the disease de- pend not on the effusion, but on the previous vascular injection. In addition to these proofs derived from inspection, that the fluid proceeds not from the brain but its membranes, it may be added, that in the foetal state, previous to the formation of brain, fluid may be derived from the congested vascular membrane. The new ac-