GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 300 occurrence of the fatal termination, is sixteen hours. I am satisfied, nevertheless, from several facts, as well authenticated as these can, under the circumstances, be, that, in the cases now adverted to, the interval between the first attack and the cessation of life is much shorter. In one case, in which my attention was particu- larly directed to this point, the interval between the first symptoms and the extinction of life might be six hours, but did not exceed eight hours. In other cases there is good reason to believe that the interval was not more than five hours. The cause of this speedy extinction of life, compared with other cases, is to be found in two circumstances; ls£, the large quantity of blood effused, and consequently compressing a large extent of the brain and suspending its functions; and, 2d, the great injury inflicted on the brain by laceration of its substance, disorganization of its structure, and consequent disorder and suspension of its func- tions. The amount of effused blood, in short, and the great extent of brain injured, place this lesion as to fatality and speedy influence on the same footing with effusion of blood into the substance of the annular protuberance. Next to the hemispheres in hemorrhagic tendency may be placed the protuberance, the limbs of the brain, the medulla oblongata, and the cerebellum, in the order now enumerated. When hemorrhage takes place into the annular protuberance, the blood is generally deposited in layers in the interstices between the transverse fibres. In one fatal case I observed this so distinctly, that the blood and cerebral matter formed alternating layers. When it is very abundant, however, the transverse fibres are broken through, and the effused blood is contained in irregular cavities. (Cheyne, case 9, Serres, Tacheron.) The proximity of the protu- berance to the large transverse branches of the basilar artery affords some reason for the readiness with which it may be affected with vascular injection and hemorrhage. Of effusion into the cerebellum little is accurately known. Mor- gagni records two cases, one in both hemispheres, most in the left; and it is interesting to remark, that he lays particular stress on the pulpy state of the surrounding substance of the cerebellic hemi- sphere.* In the other, it appears to have been more recent. In a case by Dr Abercrombie a clot was found in the right hemisphere. * “ Ea autem portio cerebelli quee corpus ejusmodi circumstabat, fracida erat. Epistola ii. 22. Epist. lx. C.