GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 114 the tube is folded longitudinally,—a disposition often seen in the larger veins. By Meckel, on the contrary, the accuracy of the observation of Bichat is maintained. This anatomist states that he has, by the most minute dissections, assured himself that these fibres are longi- tudinal ; but he admits that they are not uniformly present in all parts of the venous system, and that in degree and abundance they are liable to great variation. He follows Bichat also in represent- ing these fibres as thicker and more distinct in the system of the inferior than in that of the superior cava, and in the superficial than in the deep veins. In the inferior cava of the human subject, certainly filaments or fibres may be recognised. But, instead of being longitudinal, they may be made to assume any direction, according to the manner in which the filamentous tissue is removed. For this reason probably these fibres are to be viewed as part of the filamentous sheath. In the saphena vein of the leg oblique fibres may be seen decussating each other; but it is doubtful whether these belong to the proper venous tissue, or to the filamentous covering. I have repeatedly seen and demonstrated the following facts. If the vena cava descendens be cut open by a longitudinal inci- sion and washed in pure water, there is seen first the inner mem- brane perfectly smooth, very thin, and semitransparent, so much so, that it cannot be detached from the middle coat, without the risk of bringing some of the latter away. Secondly, longitudinal fibres or lines running along the middle coat in its substance parallel to the axis of the vein. Thirdly, when the cellular coat is detached carefully by the forceps, there is seen a moderately thick membra- nous layer of fawn-colour, presenting longitudinal threads, lines, or fibres. The same can be seen, though much less distinctly, in several of the large venous trunks, for instance the iliac and common femo- ral veins. The nature of this proper membrane or venous fibre, as it is sometimes named, (Bichat,) is not at all known. Its great exten- sibility, its softness, its want of elasticity in the circular direction, or fragility, its colour and general aspect, distinguish it from the arterial tunic. It possesses some elasticity in the longitudinal di- rection, and is retracted vigorously when stretched. It possesses considerable resistance, or in common language is tough. The