386 general and pathological anatomy. In the first of^these cases, which took place in the person of a young man, who had been brought from Musselburgh to the Edin- burgh Royal Infirmary, I examined the whole spinal chord with care. I found it quite sound, except in the cervical portion, where the envelopes were reddened, and had evidently been the seat of inflammatory injection. Beneath these envelopes, the spinal chord in the cervical portion was reddened and softened for the space of between one inch and a-half and two inches. So far as I could determine, this was the point which gives origin to, or is connected with those branches of the cervical nerves which proceed to and chiefly form the brachial plexus. In this case, therefore, I inferred, that the injury done the finger, and the subsequent inflammation, especially of the digital nerve and its nerve-coat, had been reflected, as it were, to the spinal origins of these nerves, and thus induced inflammation and irritation of the spinal marrow, then softening; and that these were the effi- cient causes of the tetanic symptoms and their fatal termination. In the second case, in which the patient died under the care of my friend, Dr Paterson of Leith, and by whose attention I was present at the inspection, we found the contused ends of the nerve red and softened, and its tunic in like manner red, injected, and thickened; and in the same manner, on inspecting the spinal mar- row, a portion of that organ in the cervical region not less than two inches in length, very distinctly reddened and softened, indeed, quite creamy, while the rest of the chord was firm and of normal consistence. The spot thus affected with softening corresponded very accu- rately with the origins or spinal connections of the cervical nerves which contribute to form the brachial plexus. It is proper to say, that I had mentioned to Dr Paterson what I expected to find in the spinal marrow, and my reasons for this expectation as founded on the facts of the previous case. The dis- covery of the connection between the inflamed nerve and the re- flected irritation and inflammatory softening of the spinal chord was not the effect of accident. I have repeatedly seen the nerve or nerves of parts injured and contused in tetanic cases, presenting redness, vascularity, thickening of the neurilemma, and softening of the nerve. But I have not had opportunities of examining the spinal chord in any other case. I think, nevertheless, that it is reasonable to infer, that the irrita- tion is propagated from the injured parts in the reflex direction to the