246 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. rover a cylinder of wood, and covering it unless removed by art. This last part of the cylindroid process is what is well known, and always described under the name of the tape or fillet of the hippo- campus. Its arrangement with regard to the gray indented band is less generally understood, and is indeed never noticed in the or- dinary descriptions. A correct idea of it may be formed in the following manner. Divide, by successive transverse sections, the hippocampus from the part named the foot upwards, as far as it can be traced. It will be found that each section presents a central portion of gray matter, enveloped in a thin curled plate of white matter, which is free at one edge,—the concave one,—and hangs over the gray band like a veil, but adheres, by its opposite, to the cerebral substance. It will be perceived, also, that the white plate does not adhere to the gray band, unless at its fixed margin, and that a probe or scalpel handle may be introduced into the angular furrow between them.* As the sections approach the upper end of the cylindroid process a new arrangement is observed. The white plate becomes unusually broad, and is less bent or rolled over the gray band; while the latter, thus less completely covered, instead of following the same direction with the white plate which it does below, is much sepa- rated from it, and leaves a considerable angle between the plate and itself. This arrangement is most conspicuous where the process corresponds to the upper part of the optic chamber and the cere- bral limb. The white plate of the hippocampus traced further is found to coalesce with the margins of the vault, and tapering as it approaches the anterior end of that body, is finally identified with its substance. The upper termination or connection of the gray band is different. When it begins to recede from the white plate, which it does nearly opposite to the optic eminence, it proceeds di- rectly to the rounded posterior end of the central band, (corpus callosum,) over which, and along the upper surface about one inch, it may be traced; and beyond this it is seldom capable of being distinguished from the white matter of which the central band con- sists, f The gray indented band, therefore, which forms the inner * This last fact may also be demonstrated without transverse sections, by simple elevation of the white plate by the handle of the instrument. -)- The importance of this object in forming the outer border of the great commu- nication, will render it not improper to glance at the history of its discovery. \ 1C(T D’Azyr is supposed to have been the first anatomist who observed and described its site and appearance with accuracy ; and we find him, in a Memoir of the Royal Aca-