784 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. micular eruption and varied appearance of gyri or convoluted lines, which are in different parts convex and concave; and these gyri again converge everywhere into the foliated form, like the leaves of the oak, fig tree, or cauliflower, variously arranged with undu- lated margin. The whole kidney at this period consists of mere leaf-like convoluted gyri. These gyri form the uppermost part of the substance; but they are continued inwards, as if they were held together in the deep-seated substance by one common mesen- tery. When the small masses deep in the middle, undulated at margin, and also beyond the margin, are arranged like leaves, the observer thinks he sees the elementary particles of the renal sub- stance in the prominent lobules of the gyri. At first the gyri of the masses appear everywhere with unequal margin. Soon, however, by the aid of the microscope, there is seen on the tortuous border a vesicular eruption like pearls; that is, in the tender substance of the tortuous border, round cor- puscles are contained one after the other; but when these are carefully examined, they are found to be round on the margin only ; and below, where the gyri penetrate into the interior sub- stance, these corpuscula also descend, and in tfceir course become smaller, as the pedunculi proceed from the deep seated substance, and are unfolded variously on the tortuous and curled border of the gyri. These pedunculated corpuscles are whiter than the rest of the very tender substance, and are arranged one beside the other in very regular order, held together, as it were, by one common mesentery, which, folded and contracted inwardly, but outwardly unfolded by innumerable gyri and a tortuous margin, produces a remarkable resemblance to the arrangement of leaves and lobules. In the same manner the pedunculi meet in various points in the deep-seated substance, and outwardly are unfolded in the undulat- ing fashion, terminating in a vesicular or headed end. These pe- dunculi, though approximated internally, are not really united, but merely approximated in the contracted membranous substance. This may be regarded as the earliest conformation in most embryos. The arrangement therefore is, that the appearance of granules takes place first on the margin of the gyri; while the vesicles with peduncles are in the deep-seated substance. The further development consists in this, that the gyri of the uriniferous ducts increase daily, and the undulated margin is con- tracted into several contorted lobules, whence a more profuse leaf-