742 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the subserous tissue. In the peritonaeum they are still more fre- quent ; and Dr Monro tertius gives a valuable collection of cases, in which these bodies were found connected with various regions of that membrane. Though the cysticercus or solitary hydatid is oc- casionally found, those more usually seen in this membrane are the ccenuri and echinococci, or the gregarious form of the animal. Of this description, I have several times observed good examples. In the body of a man of about 45, who died with the usual symptoms of dropsy, two globular cysts, one as large as a child’s head, were found attached to the hepatic peritonaeum. In each of these were contained an immense number of globular cysts containing trans- parent fluid, about half an inch or eight lines in diameter, and sur- rounded in like manner by a transparent fluid. Two similar cysts, each containing many small ones, were found attached to part of the ileum. These were unequivocal examples of the acephalo-cyst, which is indeed very commonly developed within and in connection with the peritonaeum. These bodies caused during life irregular prominent tumours of the belly. Hydatids are also common in the vaginal coat. § 3. Fungus Hcematodes is observed to take place in this tissue. I have seen it affect the pleura in the form of numerous pendulous and sessile tumours. It is, however,‘more common in the perito- naeum, both at its free and at its attached surface. One example, in which it originated in the hepatic peritonaeum, and thence pro- ceeded to affect the greater part of the abdominal cavity, and af- terwards presented at the groin, where it destroyed the bones of tbe pelvis, and the upper end of the thigh-bone, some years ago fell under my observation. The tumour had attained an enormous size, and consisted chiefly of cerebriform matter contained in seve- ral cysts, and in some instances softened into a dark-coloured pulpy semifluid mass. § 4. Scirrhous induration is said to take place in serous tissue. There is no doubt that it often affects this tissue from the conti- guous ones, especially the mucous and submucous; but it is not ascertained, that it originates in the serous membrane. It is not necessary to confound under this name various indurations, which seem to be the result of the inflammatory process, or the lardaceous state observed in the omentum and mesentery in old dysenteries, which by some have been represented as examples of this morbid degeneration.