GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 438 head, the bones are proceeding to completion ; the pericranium and dura mater are highly vascular; and a quantity of reddish semi- transparent jelly between the scalp and the skull, which contained numerous minute vessels, Mr Howship regards as the loose cellu- lar state of the foetal pericranium. This is, however, doubtful. The cylindrical bones have at this period no medullary cavity, but present in their interior a loose bony texture. Between the seventh and eighth months, in a foetus ten inches long, I find the humerus consisting of a cylinder of bone placed between two brownish firm, jelly-like masses, which correspond to the epiphyses, enclosed by periosteum, which adheres loosely by means of filamentous and vascular productions. The radius is- a thin bony rod, also between two jelly-like epiphyses. The ulna is still thinner, more slender and flexible, and even compressible. The interosseous ligament is a continuous duplicature of the peri- osteum. The metacarpal bones are much as before, only larger. The hands and fingers are complete; but the phalanges consist of minute semi-hard grains, enclosed in periosteum, which forms a ge- neral sac to them, and to the intermediate connecting parts. The middle and unguinal phalanges can scarcely be called osseous. The femur, like the humerus, is an osseous cylinder between two jelly- like epiphyses, enveloped in loosely adhering periosteum. The tibia and fibula like the radius and ulna. The metatarsal bones are cylindrical pieces, firm, but not very hard. The first phalanx of the toes is complete; the other two, though the toes are fully formed, are much of the consistence of cartilage. The carpal and tarsal bones are in the state of the epiphyses, but of a gray colour. In this state of the osseous system, the periosteum, which is con- tinuous, and appears to make one membrane with the capsular li- gaments and the deep-seated portions of the fascia, adheres to the bone chiefly by arteries and filamentous productions; and so loose is this connection, that a probe may be inserted beneath it, and carried round or inwards, unless where these connections are situate. Another point where the periosteum adheres firmly is at muscular insertions. Thus it adheres to the humerus most firmly at the inser- tion of the deltoid, and to the femur at that of the glutceus; and at these parts the bone is already rough. In the vertebral column the bodies of the vertebrae and the spi- nous plates are formed; and minute specks are beginning in the site of the transverse processes. 4