42 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. sequence of the violence of the constitutional symptoms, chiefly the affection of the brain. 3. Inflammation of a chronic nature is not uncommon in the fila- mentous tissue. In the ordinary acute form, the process is attend- ed with more or less pain and swelling, and proceeds quickly to suppuration. In other circumstances, however, little or no pain is felt; swelling is not perceived till late ; and the first intimation of the existence of the disease is a collection of purulent matter, which, when discharged, is not homogeneous, but consists of flaky or curd- like shreds floating in a thinnish watery fluid. This constitutes the cold abscess {apostema frigidum) of the surgeons of the Saracen school, and is the chronic abscess of modern surgeons. (Boyer.) The cold abscess may be formed in any part of filamentous tis- sue ; but it is most frequent where this tissue is loose and abun- dant. Seldom seen in the head, it is frequent in the neck, in the chest, in the back, especially in the lumbar region, and in the ex- tremities. I have seen this tumour most generally in the loins, where it is liable to be confounded with lumbar abscess; in the cellular tissue of the glutcei muscles; and in the thigh and leg, especially the posterior and internal region. In these situations it is not unfrequently the cause of sinuous cavities, which are difficult to be healed. Several of the forms of lumbar abscess, in which there is no affection of the vertebrae or of their ligaments, are ex- amples of this abscess occurring in the abundant loose filamentous tissue, which connects the mesentery, the large vessels, and the psoae muscles to the spine. Boyer also states that they are some- times seen in the filamentous tissue which connects the serous membranes of the chest and belly to the walls of these cavities. Of the latter I have seen one instance simulating hernia, and by the destruction which it caused of the fibres of the recti muscles, actu- ally leaving a space through which the intestines were protruded. Ileo-ccecal Abscess. (Apostema Ileo-ccecale.)—The filamentous tissue connecting the posterior surface of the caecum to the lum- bar muscles is occasionally the seat of inflammation and suppu- ration, apparently of a chronic character. Swelling and fulness take place slowly in the space round the caecum. At length pain is felt; and when the part is examined a doughy solid tumour is recognized in the right iliac region, while dulness on percussion is observed. The pulse is at this time a little quicker than natural, (86-90); the skin is dry ; the tongue is furred; the abdomen is a little full; and the bowels are slow or obstinately