BRAIN. 293 remain in an arm or leg for some time. This is the simplest and mildest form of the apoplectic seizure. ( Cataphora.) It has been thought that this could not happen unless blood is ef- fused ; but various instances have occurred to competent observers in which the cerebral vessels are loaded only, and in which effusion had not yet taken place. It may further be inferred, that the in- stances in which persons recover from complete apoplectic seizure without suffering palsy depend upon vascular injection only. That fatal cases even may result from mere accumulation, is admitted by Morgagni,* afterwards by Baillie,f without being aware that the observation had been made, and by Rochoux, who thinks, however, that it is not uniform.! I observe, nevertheless, that M. Rochoux forgets that the cases in which it occurs being less frequently fatal, are more rarely the subject of inspection. According to M. Serres, indeed, cases of apoplectic seizure without palsy depend on injection of the membranes exclusively.§ This point shall be afterwards considered when speaking of the cerebral membranes. In other respects, however, the researches of this physician tend to establish the general inference, that extrava- sation is not necessary to apoplexy. l«f. From experiments made on living animals, || from the phenomena of effusions of blood either spontaneously, or from wounds and injuries of the head, it appears that a considerable quantity of blood or other fluid may be effused in various parts of the brain without causing apoplectic symptoms. (Wepfer,, Valsalva, and Serres). 2cl. From various cases it ap- pears that the apoplectic symptoms connected with extravasation disappear, while the extravasated blood remains. (Serres’s cases, 7, 8, 7, 10, 11, 12, and others.) 3cZ, It results from cases record- ed not only by Morgagni, Baillie, and Rochoux, as above mention- ed, but by the physicians of Breslau,IF by Quarin, by Stark,** and * Epist. iii. 25 and 26. t “ The milder forms of apoplexy depend upon a distension of some of the vessels of the brain from undue accumulation of blood in them. I have known, however, one instance of fatal apoplexy, where many of the blood-vessels were found, upon exami- nation after death, to be much distended with blood ; but no blood had been extrava- sated in any part of the brain.”—Lectures and Observations on Medicine. London, 1825, p. 167. t llecherches sur l’Apoplexie. Par J. A. Rochoux. Paris, 11)14. § Nouvelle Division des Apoplexies ; par M. Serres ; Chevalier, &c. Annuaire Medico-Chirurgicale des Hopitaux et Hospices Civiles de Paris. A Paris, 1817. 4to, P. 246, 277. II Annuaire Medico-Chirurgicale, 260, 261. Tl Historia Morborum Vratislaviensium. Clinical and Anatomical Observations, Part iv. § 4, p. 73. This appears, how-