SEROUS MEMBRANE.—CHRONIC PLEURISY. 715 bathing the adherent masses, and filling the hollows of the lumbai, iliac, and hypogastric regions. The omentum is sometimes glued down at its corners to a fold of ileum; in other instances it is drawn up and shrivelled into a roundish or cylindrical mass. 3d, Ulceration may take place at one or more points of the mus- cular or intestinal peritonaeum, by a process, the mechanism of which has been already explained; The first is most common, and may be so extensive and complete as to destroy the whole membrane on the fore part of the abdomen, and expose the transverse and straight muscles as distinctly as if they were cleanly dissected, and leave the tendons of the lateral muscles in rags, partly gone, partly in the form of slough. At the same time, the intestines are covered with a coat of lymph, which is believed by Hunter to prevent the mattei from irritating, and producing ulcerative inflammation of the bow- els, and from diffusing itself over the abdominal cavity.* Its chief use is to prevent inflammation of the subserous tissue. The rarity of the latter, which is well established, is ascribed by Hunter to the indisposition to ulceration manifested by the intestinal peritonaeum.! It is the express testimony of Baillie, that he u did not recollect to have seen one instance in which the ulcer had begun on the outer or peritonseal surface of the intestines, and had spread inwards.” To show that this termination, though uncommon, is not unknown, I mention, that of 16 cases of chronic peritonaeal inflam- mation reported by Broussais, in one only did perforation of the in- testines take place :| and that in the case of Willan above alluded to, the colon was superficially ulcerated in several places. In the sero-purulent and purulent collections, which are the re- sult of peritoneal inflammation in puerperal females after it has passed the acute stage, a peculiar mode of termination is not un- frequently observed in an opening taking place spontaneously generally at the navel, and allowing the issue of a large quantity of fluid. This opening is effected first by distension, the pressure of the matter separating the recti, and enlarging the umbilical aper- ture afterwards by laceration, while the peritonaeum detached from the supporting tissues, and sustained only by the skin, at length gives way, and forms an opening. Examples of this are recorded * On the Blood, &c. Part ii. Chap. vi. Sect. vi. p. 461, aird Sect. ix. p. 467. t “ If the disposition for ulceration was equal on every side of the abscess, it must open into the intestine, which is seldom the case, although it sometimes does.” P. 266. + Phlcgrnasies Chroniques, Section ii. Chap. iv. Ohs. lv. p. 480.