GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 164 ant to attend much to the state of the blood and its appearances, it is commonly described as dissolved, and deficient in crasis. What this dissolved state consists in we are not informed ; neither do we at present possess means of knowing. In many of the con- tinental schools, however, the term dyscrasia of the blood has been and is now employed to express a morbid state of that fluid. The following facts, which I have repeatedly observed in conti- nued fever, appear to me deserving attention. If a person attacked with fever (synochus or typhvs,) be blooded at the commencement of the attack or within three or four days there- from,'the blood coagulates very much in the usual time, and, with a moderately firm coagulum, shows an average proportion of serum. If in a person labouring under fever blood be drawn about six or seven days after the commencement of the symptoms, it coagulates more slowly, and less perfectly. The coagulum is loose and soft, and the quantity of serum small. If blood be drawn at a period still later in the disease, the coagulum is yet more doose and soft, and the serum still smaller in quantity. In the majority of cases of fever at this stage, the serum sometimes does not exceed one drachm, or at most two, and in some cases no serum at all is sepa- rated. At the same time, the coagulum is soft, flaccid, tremulous, and when divided, evidently consists of the coagulum, properly so called, and the serum involved and retained within the clot. This I have seen so often, and after trials made with attentive observa- tion of the fact, that I cannot doubt its accuracy as a general fact. The conclusion which I conceive naturally flows from the facts now stated, is, that in fever the coagulating power of the blood is progressively impaired in the course of the disease, and it may in extreme cases be altogether gone. The quantity of serum produc- ed is in general in the direct ratio of the coagulating power. If the blood coagulates vigorously and energetically, the serum is ex- pressed from it in large quantity. If the serum is separated in small quantity, it shows not that little serum is in the blood, but that the coagulating power being impaired and weakened, it does not force the serum out of the fibrin in due quantity. When no serum appears at all, it shows that the coagulating power is so far destroyed, that it is unable to separate the blood into clot and serum. That this loss of coagulating power in the blood takes place in fever, and increases gradually as the disease advances, is rendered