GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 910 Meliceris* Atheroma,\ and Steat,oma,\ were formed in the liver. Ihe instances nevertheless are not well authenticated, and were recorded at periods, when accurate distinctions had not been intro- duced. Instances of the first and second are believed by the best informed authorities to be degenerated acephalocysts ; and those of the last belong mostly to the encephaloid deposit. B. Struma.—Whether struma be always regarded as a hetero- logous product or not, tubercle is usually considered as such. Struma, however, does not appear, in all instances, in the form of tubercle in the liver. It may take place in that of a sort of infil- tration of strumous deposition in the interstitial matter of the gland. Its appearances are then the following. The liver is enlarged, mostly in the transverse direction, with some flattening of the two surfaces. It is also heavier, i. e. from five to six or eight pounds. The peri- toneum is smooth and tensely stretched. The liver is doughy; generally of a pale yellow or grayish-red colour, sometimes a little variegated, and not vascular. The section is smooth, homogeneous, a little lardaceous looking, but not_ leaving greasy traces on the knife; and little blood escapes, while a serous muddy liquor oozes from points of the section. The substance is in general friable, flaccid, and lacerable. Nothing positive or certain is known regarding the anatomico- pathological causes of this change; and, when its physical charac- ters are stated, it is almost all that can be predicated regarding the lesion without committing errors. A new matter is infiltrated into the interstitial tissue of the gland ; but what that new matter is, is not known. This lesion takes place in persons wasted by disease, and with other marks of strumous disposition. It is observed in children and young persons who have enlarged mesenteric glands ; and in those who are phthisical. It occasionally proceeds to abdominal dropsy. Yet life may be prolonged for a considerable time with this disorder. Many years ago, I performed several times the ope- ration of paracentesis on a young man labouring under this disease, which had, at the time referred to, been of some duration. In ge- * Bianclii, Hist. Hepatica. p. 107. f Columbus, Glisson, and Bianclii, Hist. Ilepat. Guettard, Baader. + Columbus de Re Anatomiea. Bianclii, Ilist. Hepat. Biumi apud Sandifort, Dis- sertat. Enaux.