BONE. 479 of direction, so that the second or straight portion formed with the first or curved a sharp turn sufficient to constitute exactly a light angle. Longitudinal and transverse sections of these ribs showed that no breach of continuity had taken place, and, therefore, that this turn was not the result of fracture. It presented a uniform, firm surface, ash-gray in colour, and traversed, as usual, by minute red lines, yet without manifest trace of interrupted continuity. Prom this rectangular bend the substance of the bone was of the usual appearance, but looser and more cancellated as it approached the sternal extremity, which was large, soft, and very sectile. It was also forced inward from the cartilage, so as to form the remarkable depression observed on the exterior of the chest, while the cartilage itself projected in the shape of a large round tubercle or eminence. Nothing like false joint was observed either at the point of curva- ture or at the cartilages.* These appearances were observed in the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs ; in the four last most distinctly ; in the third and eighth faintly, but still sufficiently well to contribute to the general aspect of deformity on the exterior of the chest. All the ribs were soft and flexible, and spongy and sectile ; and I cannot convey the idea of this condition more distinctly than by simply stating the fact, that in removing several of the ribs and making sections, I did not use the saw, but simply cut them both transversely and longi- tudinally. As has been already stated, they were in all respects the same on both sides of the chest. Connected with this was a peculiarity in the bones of the skull not dissimilar. Before dividing the scalp there was observed a deep lon- gitudinal furrow in the situation of the sagittal suture between the two parietal bones ; and another transverse one extending, though less deep, on each side along the coronal suture, between the posterior margin of the frontal bone and the anterior edge of the parietal bones. Not only was the fontanelle incomplete for about two inches; but no attempt had been made, or was likely to be made, to unite the two parietal bones with each other, and these with the frontal, by the ordinary process of dove-tail ossification. The lon- gitudinal furrow in the situation of the sagittal suture was so large as to leave an inch at least between the parietal bones; and along this space these bones were united by firm fibro-ligamentous struc- ture. T he coronal suture on each side down to the temporal bone * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. XXXII. Plate I. Edinburgh, 11129.