MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—ABSCESS. 097 which gives rise to it, or it depends on the prevalence of some pe- culiar telluric or atmospheric miasma. In the year 1348, a febrile disorder, with intense pneumonic symptoms, often terminating fa- tally by profuse or continued hemorrhage from the lungs, appeared in Italy, and spread between that year and 1350 over many parts of Europe, destroying much of the population of different countries in an incredibly short space of time. This disorder, which was emphatically denominated by the populace the black death, appears to have possessed the character of fever with gangrenous pneumo- nia. In many pestilential epidemics, however, as in that of Mar- seilles, Transylvania, and other countries, carbuncular and glan- dular plague appears to have been attended with symptoms of pul- monary mortification. Pneumonic inflammation, very often with vesicular bronchitis, occurs secondarily in ague, remittent fever, typhoid fever, small- pox, measles, pulmonary consumption, rheumatism, and rheumatic gout, and disease of the kidney. I have also observed the disease take place in a latent or insidious manner in the insane from chronic meningeal inflammation. § 6. Vomica or Abscess of the Lungs.—To complete the history of pneumonic inflammation, I add a few remarks on abscess of the lungs, and a form of suppurative inflammation to which they are liable. The formation of a distinct abscess of the lungs as a consequence of inflammation, was at one time generally admitted among patho- logists. Laennec, however, who describes suppuration of the lungs under his third degree of pulmonary induration, maintains thatlt is exceedingly rare, and gives it as the result of his observation, that small abscesses are found in the pulmonic tissue not above four or five times, and an extensive one not above once, in many hundred cases. Gray hepatization is in one sense suppuration of the lungs; for pus-globules are found in the interstices of the filamento-cellular tissue, and are observed oozing from it. This however is infiltration of purulent matter, not an abscess or deposit in a particular cavity. Many of the reported cases of pulmonary abscess, or suppuration of lung, as a consequence of inflammation may be regarded as excavations or vomica formed by the softening of extensive tubercular masses. Several also; I am satisfied, are in stances of chronic pleurisy terminating in empyema and condensed ung. It i^ possible that suppuration, as a consequence of inflam mahon of the lungs, may be rare, for two reasons ; 1,;, Because