MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 675 the rectum, and in the uterus, occasionally in the larynx and trachea. In the oesophagus and stomach it has been seen by many observers, among others, by Morgagni, Bleuland, Palletta, Badlie, Ohaidel, Monro, Howship, Armstrong; in the pylorus it has also been seen by many: (Morgagni, Baillie, Pinel, Holmes, Louis, &c.)and the rec- tum is perhaps the most frequent seat of scirrho-carcinoma of any of the internal parts. In all these situations the anatomical characters of the disease are much the same. In the mucous corion, or at its attached surface, is formed a deposition of white or gray fibro-car- tilaginous substance, the fibrous bands running transversely to the direction of the bowel. This deposition is firm, of ligamentous con- sistence, and undergoes a self-destroying process in the interior. In general, however, the raucous pellicle forming its free surface undergoes ulceration; or contraction of the canal takes place to such an extent as to interfere with the functions of the organ, and terminate life. b. Tubercular induration is another form in which scirrhus may affect the mucous tissue. A portion becomes occupied by irregu- lar nodulated masses, consisting of hard spheroidal bodies not un- like cartilage, sometimes softer, like flesh interspersed with cartila- ginous points. This is observed in the oesophagus (Bonetus, Bleu- land, Palletta, Mr David Hay, &c.) in the cardiac and pyloric ori- fices of the stomach, and in the rectum. In the latter it forms many of the examples of scirrho-contraction of that organ. This affection appears to consist in peculiar chronic induration with de- generation of the mucous follicles, in situations abounding in which it most usually occurs. It is observed to attack very often the neck of the uterus. It is totally distinct from the tyromatous deposition of strumous habits, with which it has been occasionally confounded by some observers. The tyromatous deposition occurs chiefly in the young, and has been seen even in infants. Tubercular indu- ration is a disease of middle age and declining years. For some judicious observations on the development and distinctions of these two varieties of cancer, I refer to the writings of Bayle and Cru- veilhier, and a Memoir of Scarpa in his Chirurgical Treatises.* By several authorities, on the other hand, it is maintained, that the fibro-cartilaginous and tubercular scirrhus are the same in structure and characters, and differ only in the mode in which the scirrhous matter is deposited. This view may be correct. It is * OpuBcoli di Chirurgia di Antonio Scarpa, &c. Vol. i. Pavia, in2.r).