SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE—SYNOVIAL RHEUMATISM. 751 § 4. Ganglia.—A milder form of inflammation is occasionally seen in these sheaths, terminating in effusion of. semitransparent, viscid, glairy fluid, like white of egg. This effusion causes an oblong pro- minent hemispheroidal swelling, tense, elastic, and communicating a sense of fluctuation, which has been long distinguished by the names of hygroma and ganglion, according to the degree in which it takes place. As I restrict the former appellation to the serous cyst, there is no occasion for using two names to varieties of an affection the same in anatomical characters. Ganglion is subcu- taneous or tendinous, according to its situation in the subcutane- ous or tendinous synovial sacs. § 5. Arthragra.—During gout the synovial sacs, both articular and tendinous, are the seat of an inflammatory process which terminates in the secretion of synovial fluid loaded with urate of soda. § 6. The Synovial Membranes in Rheumatism.—Though rheuma- tism, as affecting the aponeurotic sheaths and membranes, has already been under consideration, it does not, however, confine its action to these tissues. From them it may either spread by contiguity, as al- ready explained, to the articular capsules and the synovial mem- branes, or it may affect the latter tissues at once. It is then usually denominated articular rheumatism. This takes place both in the acute, in the subacute, and in the chronic forms of the disease. In the two latter, however, rheumatic action produces effects of a serious and unmanageable character. The mode of the approach of this affection is in general the fol- lowing. Sometimes after a slight attack of fascial rheumatism, in the loins, the back of the neck, or one or more of the joints, sometimes with- out this preliminary circumstance, one joint is attacked with a feel- ing of stiffness, fulness, as if there were something within it, and dull obtuse uneasiness. These sensations are relieved while the joint is in motion, but become worse when it is at rest; and, always after resting, the sense of fulness and stiffness is aggravated, until it amounts to difficult mobility of the joint. Swelling does not appear at first, but always comes on after some time. The joint is then enlarged, elastic, full, and rounded • the articular angles being lost in the swelling; and when examined brancrnanifeSt ^ ^ ^ C°ntained withir> the synovial mem- At the same time, it must be observed, that in articular rheuma- Wm’ the seat of filing may be twofold. It may affect the peri-