GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, 518 1. The psydracium may be viewed as the connecting link between the vesicle and pustule. It is small, often irregularly circumscrib- ed, producing but slight elevation of the cuticle, and terminating in a laminated scab. It is attended with little or no redness of the surrounding skin (areola), does not affect the corion deeply, and rarely, almost never, leaves a hollow scar. Several of them often appear together, and becoming confluent after discharging the scanty puriform matter which they furnish, pour out a thin watery fluid, which on drying forms an irregular incrustation. 2. The achor differs not much from the psydracium. It appears in the form of a minute pointed elevation, of a yellow colour, and succeeded by a thin brown or yellowish scab. It contains straw- coloured matter of the appearance and consistence of strained ho- ney ; it is surrounded with little inflammatory redness, and seems to affect the corion as little as the psydracium. In ordinary cir- cumstances it leaves no scar. 3. The may be esteemed the next degree of inflammation of this tissue. It is larger and flatter than the last-mentioned pus- tule, not pointed, and contains a more viscid matter than the achor. It is surrounded by a slight-red, irregular, marginal ring, indicat- ing a more considerable affection of the corial tissue. It is suc- ceeded by a yellow, semitransparent, and sometimes cellular scab, like honey-comb. 4. A form of pustule referable neither to these nor to that which is to follow, I must here mention,—theplilyctidiurn or genuine small- pox pustule. It consists in a circular or annular spot of inflamma- tion of the corion, encircled by a red ring or zone, which is ob- served to consist of the outer corial surface highly vascular and elevated. W ithin this suppuration takes place. Though the phlyc- tidium is observed spontaneously in the distinct small-pox, it is al- so produced artificially by friction of tartar-emetic ointment. 5. Thephlyzacium is the most perfect example of the most violent degree of this form of cutaneous inflammation. It is described as a large pustule, raised on a hard circular base, of a lively red co- lour, and succeeded by a thick, hard, dark-coloured scab. It is generally slow in progress, and, commencing at once on the sur- face and in the substance of the corion, is attended with consider- able surrounding inflammation ; and the suppurative process which follows is always accompanied with more or less destruction of the corial tissue. It often leaves a hollow scar. The surrounding