MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 657 membrane are detached in isolated points by ulceration ; and though the subjacent tissues are exposed, there is no regular cavity or abscess, but merely an ulcerated depression, which secretes puru- lent matter. (Walter.) In more severe cases, in which the suppu- rative or ulcerative process penetrates the different coats, commu- nications are formed betjveen the bladder and the neighbouring parts. The most ordinary of these modes of communication are the general peritoneal cavities, or the rectum, in both sexes, anti the vagina in the female. In the first case, besides other symptoms* the urine gives rise to fatal peritoneal inflammation ; in the second and third, its escape by unnatural passages induces much local ir- ritation and general distress, and eventually may terminate in death- Sloughing of the cystic mucous membrane has been known to oc- cur, but is not common. b. Cystidia Diuturna.—The termination of cystidia in the chro- nic form is. most frequent in those who have laboured under re- peated attacks of acute cystic inflammation ; those who have had urethral or prostatic inflammation, or other disease of these parts; those having urethral stricture; those liable to sabulous or lithic concretions, or wherever there is a permanent cause of irritation. It is hence common in persons whose health is impaired, or who are advanced in life. The cystic membrane becomes not only red- dish, but brown, villous, flocculent, and considerably thickened. In some instances it become granular and unusually hard. This change was repeatedly seen by Hoffmann, Morgagni,* Lieutaud, Portal, and others; and it is important to remark, that it never continues long without causing inordinate thickening of the mus- cular layer, and occasionally irregular contraction of its constituent fibres, so as to form sacculi, or cavities in the walls of the organ. In most instances it secretes puriform mucus, (Hoffmann, Chopart,) but without destruction of the mucous membrane. The former au- thor relates an instance in which the usual effects took place, while, upon inspection, the cystic tissues w'ere found thickened and condens- ed, and the vessels of the mucous membrane large, numerous, and loaded, yet without trace of ulceration. This disorder is said to have been the cause of death to Voltaire, Buffon, D’Alembert, and Spallanzani.f On the other hand, the mucous membrane may be entirely removed, as in the acute form, by a process of ulceration * Epist. xlii. t Brera Storia della Malattia di P. Spallanzani. 1’ t