923 GALL-STONES AND THEIR EFFECTS, M. Brillouet gives, in a lady of 68, a case in which, after colic pains, vomiting, and constipation, lasting apparently about a month, there was voided first a gall-stone, five lines long and eighteen in circumference, and weighing forty-three grains; and fourteen days after a similar concretion, six lines long, and weighing fifty grains; both fragments of one gall-stone weighing together one drachm thirty-three grains.* * * ยง Dr Lettsom records the case of a military gentleman of Jamaica, who had laboured for years under severe pain of the epigastric re- gion, which was ascribed to gout. As he had intervals of ease for eight or ten days, Dr Lettsom suggested that his complaints de- pended on the presence of gall-stones. At length, in one of the fits, he voided an oblong spheroidal concretion 2\ inches long, with a contraction or collar in the middle, weighing 1 ounce 2 drachms and 23 grains. No jaundice took place in this case.f F. G. in Meyer Epist. ad Zimmermannum Hannoverse, 1789, Editio secunda, 1790. John Gottlieb Walter uotices the case of a man of 71 who voided an oblong spheroidal gall-stone, weighing two drachms, two scruples, ten grains =170 grains, about one inch and a half in the greatest diameter, and nearly one inch in the small diameter. The patient suffered violent spasmodic pains in the abdomen ; but all ceased on the discharge of the concretion.^: Heberden mentions a case, in which a female, who had suffered from jaundice for many years, at length voided a concretion, of which the smaller circumference was two inches. ยง Mr H. L. Thomas records in a woman of 63 an instance of a globular gall-stone being evacuated, 1.6 inch largest diameter, 1,1 inch small diameter, weighing 228 grains. || Mr T. Brayne records in a woman of 55 an instance of a gall- stone of the shape of a pigeon's egg being expelled from the bowels, measuring If greatest diameter, If shortest diameter, and * Observation sur un Calcul Biliare expulse par les selles, par M. Brillouet. Jour- nal de Medecine, T. xxxvi. p. 233. Paris, 1771. t Case of a Biliary Calculus. By J. C. Lettsom, M. D. Read 4th September 178b. Memoirs of Medical Society, Vol. i. art. xxx. p. 373. London, 1787. t Anatomisches Museum Gesammelt von Johann Gottlieb Walter, S 96 Taf iv Berlin, 1796. 4to. ยง Clommentarii de Morborum Historia et Curatione. Lond. 1797. 8vo. Cap. 50,p. 209. II Case of Obstruction of the Large Intestines occasioned by a Biliary Calculus of extraordinary size. By H. L. Thomas, Esq. Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. vi. p. 99. London, 1815.