883 HYPERTROPHY OF THE LIVER. Death is, in these cases, generally immediate, or at most follows in no long time. A young boy of five or six was crossing the street at the South Bridge, about two o’clock in the day. He was knocked down some way by a carriage passing, and one if not both wheels passed over the trunk before the coachman could stop his horses. The boy was taken up immediately and brought to the Infirmary, where I was at the time. He was quite dead; and it was manifest, from the appearance of the abdomen, which was al- ready enlarged, that blood was copiously escaping into its cavity. When the body was examined next day, it was found that the liver lad been much crushed, and had not only been rent across the i lght lobe, but as if broke down. About four or four pounds and a half of blood in clots and fluid were found in the abdominal cavity. qv limits do not, however, allow me to say more of these cases, nor of the important order of wounds of the liver, for information on which I refer to the writings of military surgeons. § 8. Hypertrophy—By hypertrophy is meant increase of the Hver m size and weight, without any palpable change in structure. he normal weight of the liver varies at different ages, in the two sexes, and according to the size and stature of the individual. In genera!, in an adult of between 25 and 35 years of age, and of the eight of 5 feet 8 inches, the liver will weigh about three lbs., and om two to six ounces imperial weight, or about 53 ounces. In fmi!1 ’l on,?' bG Sta,t6d that the weiSht of the liver is between the 291 and 30th part of the weight of the whole person.* SST! ,0 U,e c”<,iti” o'11'' Vital Organs and Viscera in M D MWhf ,‘r T C',r0niC «"—• hy John Clendinning, troop^Xdm"'“fTr T T‘ ^ re8,lr<linS ''ei6ht °f *he » the rr6 our The ex- average weight of this division was 4 poundsl5 ounl Thol T Z Z ^ 8 ounces ; the smallest 3 pounds 1 3 minces Two were f 8? TZ 6 P°Unds ed 2 pounds 10 ounces ; the other 10 pounds^ Z £ °ne Weigh' of two examples of indurated liver in which the i* states afterwards, that Wfc, -d in both of which the E ttundedt T 1 ^ tbe without any of the usual distinctions into lobes one wetZd ZI Z “ bal1’ pounds. [This is kin-horn.] He adds that « thTVP°Und8’tl,e other 4 found to vary in weight from 21 pounds to 5 no Em'°Pean soldiers were of pre-existing disease.” Notes on the Modi 1 t " W* '°Ut an-v sat'sfactory trace These numbers are higher on the whole tl ’ P' l41, :lnd 151 and 152. f'd t0 observe in this country’. I have weighed a We baVe been accust°m- * weighed a great number of livers at the Royal