401 MUSCULAR TISSUE. the subject, I refer to the ordinary physiological works, and to those journals in which these researches are detailed.* The muscles have been divided according to the manner in which the phenomena of contraction take place,—into, muscles obe- dient to the will, or voluntary; 2d,,muscles not under the influence of the will, or involuntary; and, 3d, muscles of a mixed character, the motions of which are neither entirely dependent or independent of the will. The first order comprehends all the muscles of the skeleton; the second comprehends the hollow muscles, as the heart, stomach, and intestinal canal; and the third comprehends such muscular organs as the diaphragm, intercostal muscles, bladder, rectum, &c. Section II. 1. Myositis.—Muscle is liable to inflammation, which may be acute or chronic in duration, and may differ according to its kind. One form of muscular inflammation seems to constitute a species of rheumatism (Carmichael Smyth),f and when this continues long, it terminates in loss of power, constituting a local palsy. a. Myositis Purulenta.—Another form, equally serious and more certainly injurious, is the suppurative form of muscular inflamma- tion. In this the muscular structure suppurates and sometimes sloughs extensively; and, whether acute or chronic, is generally a fatal disease. The most familiar instance of the chronic form of suppurative inflammation in muscle is that which constitutes lumbar abscess,—inflammation of the great psoas muscle. 1 Of this Schoen- mezel records a good example in the person of a muscular young man of 28, in whom the whole of the psoas magnus and iliacus of * Elementa Physiologiae, Tome iv. Lib. xi. Sect. ii. Physiologie de l’Homme, par N. P. Adelon, 4 tomes, 8vo. Paris, 1823-1824. Outlines of Human Physiology. By Herbert Mayo, F. R. S. &c. 3d Edition. Lon- don, 1833. 4th Edition. London, 1836, 8vo. Handbuch der Physiologie des Menschen fur Vorlesungen. Von Johannes Muller, Ordentlich Offentl, Prof, der Anatomie und Physiologie U. S. W. in Berlin. Zwey Band. Coblenz, 1835 und 1840,8vo. Journal de Physiologie, Tome i. ii. Ac. &c. Archives Generates, pmmw. t Medical Communications. Vol. II. p. 217, 218. $ -The most remarkable and complete destruction ot muscle which occurs from suppuration is that which is seen in the disease called psoas abscess, where the whole or the greater part of the muscle often disappears, and its capsule is filled with the matter of suppuration.”—Thomson on Inflam., p. 152.—Lectures, p. 15.9.