217 LYMPHATIC GLAND OR GANGLION. The wax, glue, or gypsum injection is employed to show the deep-seated or central vessels ot the gland. The distribution oi these is found to be quite the same as that of the superficial vessels. The cells delineated by Cruikshank, I am disposed to regard as mere dilated parts of the lymphatic vessels which constitute the intimate structure of the gland. These minute tubes are connected by delicate filamentous tissue, which is more abundant in early life than afterwards. Injections show the existence of blood-vessels, which accompany the convolutions of the lymphatics in the glands. But no nerves have been found either in the glands or their capsules. The white matter described by Haller and Bichat is not con- tained in the cellular substance, but in the cells of the lymphatic vessels themselves. Section II. 1. a. The lymphatic glands as organized bodies, may be sup- posed to be liable to ordinary inflammation. Yet on this subject no very precise facts are given. The swelling called bubo, (pouQui, Hippocrates) appears to be in most cases inflammation of the cap- sule and surrounding cellular substance. 13. Adenosis. Strumous Inflammation. The glands, however, ap- pear to be liable to a slow chronic inflammation, which does not readily suppurate, and which, when it does suppurate, always forms a bad and tedious disease. They are believed to be often affected in scrofulous subjects; and the definition of the evil (struma, scro- fula, les ecrouclles,) has been directly taken from this pnenomenon. In such affections these bodies undoubtedly become the seat of a slow inflammatory action, which is attended with gradual enlarge- ment, without much pain or change of colour in the integuments. At length, the gland is found to become softer than it had been, and an opening takes place in the skin, through which a fluid is discharged, not homogeneous, but in general consisting of a thin serous water, in which thicker pieces like curd are mixed. This fluid, which is generally most completely formed in suppuration of the lymphatic glands, is what has been termed scrofulous, or stru- mous matter. Simple strumous enlargement in these glands may proceed to such an extent as to interfere with, and even impede the functions of important organs. In those of the neck they have, by