97 ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. In describing this morbid state ot arteries, Professor Seal pa, I conceive, confounds it with ossification. After noticing the loss of fine polish (Vintima tonaca delV arteria perde per certo tratto sito bel liscio,') which the inner arterial membrane sustains, he represents it as becoming irregular and wrinkled, and successively occupied with yellow spots, which are converted into so many earthy grains or scales, or into steatomatous and caseous concretions. I think they may be justly distinguished, because the calcareous deposite very often exists without the steatomatous; and conversely, the steatomatous may be found without the calcareous deposition. I must not omit to mention, nevertheless, that the circumstance which seems to have led Scarpa to consider these depositions as the same, is, that sometimes in the centre of a steatomatous patch is found a broad scale of hard substance, not so firm as bone, and not so crys- talline or gritty as the genuine calcareous deposition. It is gene- rally so soft as to be flexible, and resembles rather a firm piece of cartilage than true bone. It may be designated as the steatomatous and osteo-steatomatous deposition. Scarpa represents the steatomatous state as proceeding invaria- bly to ulceration. This, however, is not a uniform result. A large portion of an artery may be affected with it without suffering the smallest breach of continuity or destruction of tissue. It simply distends the vessel mechanically ; and if unaccompanied with cal- careous deposition, this distension may be considerable without any ulceration or laceration. In this manner probably are produced those simple dilatations of arteries which by many of the French authors are regarded as aneurism. In other instances, more espe- cially when the steatomatous is combined with the calcareous de- position, or when the arterial tunics have been long and much dis- tended, ulceration may take place and terminate in partial or en- tire destruction and rupture of the arterial tunics. In general, this destruction takes place in the transverse direction, (Hodgson,) and the laceration or fissure is therefore across the tube. In such circumstances, if the aperture is not large enough to cause fatal hemorrhage, aneurism first by dilatation, and ultimately by rupture, is the consequence. Of all these changes or deposits, tubercular, atheromatous, steato- matous, or calcareous, the invariable effect is to render the arterial tunics brittle, to impair their elasticity and contractile power, and to render them less pliant and more easily ruptured. Hence in arteries G