672 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. honey-comb like, with innumerable intersecting lines; and the canal of the ureters may be either natural, contracted, or dilated. The bladder is always much contracted. Its coats are thickened either to the extent of that of the ureters or more; from half an inch to three quarters. The thickening is seated both in the mucous membrane and in the muscular coat, but often more in the former than in the latter. The surface is, like that of the ureteric mem- brane, irregular and honeycomb-like. The substance of the mucous coat is as firm as cartilage; and the same transformation appears to affect the muscular coat. Occasionally the bladder is sacculated. The causes and exact nature of this change are not well known. It seems like a species of hypertrophy; and from this, nevertheless, it differs. The instances which have fallen under my own notice occurred in persous under 35. But I daresay that it may appear in old age. VI. Morbid Growths.—§ 1. Polypus.—Under this name va- rious morbid growths are mentioned by authors. It is represented as a disease peculiar to the mucous tissue, and is generally observed to take place in those regions at which it is not very remote from the skin. It occurs particularly in the nose, throat, Eustachian tube, the external earhole, and in the neck of the womb. In the stomach and bladder it is less frequent, and it very rarely occurs in the intestinal tube. It appears under one of three forms. 1. It may take place in the form of a soft ash-gray or bluish pro- duction, glistening on the surface, translucent, spongy, and com- pressible, and attached to the membrane by one or more narrow necks, which render it pendulous. This, which is what is termed by practical authors the benign polypus, is proper to the mucous tissue, of which it appears often to be merely a relaxed production or growth. It is much under the influence of atmospheric pressure, increasing in size, and causing much uneasiness while the weather is moist and the mercurial column is low. In clear dry weather, on the contrary, and when the height of the barometer indicates vigo- rous atmospheric pressure, it shrinks and contracts so much that the' patient seems to forget its existence. This form of polypus is fre- quent in the nasal mucous membrane, in which it causes much uneasiness during its distended state. It may grow also from the fibro-mucous membrane of the frontal, sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses.* When removed it presents, with a few blood-vessels, a • G. F. Gruner de Polypis in cavo Navium obviis.