BRAIN, 229 the first which claim much notice. The works ot Ridley, " and ol Glaserus,f contain some good observations ; and that of Santorini]; deserves to be mentioned for the first good description of the optic thalarni and the corpora geniculata.. Father Della Torre,§ Pro- chaska,|| and Monro, are the first after Lewenhoeck who treat of the structure of the brain after microscopical observation. The essay of Yicq-D’Azyr, and his elaborate engravings are sufficiently well known.IF About the same time, 1780, Vincenzo Malacarne described the component parts of the organ with more accuracy than had hitherto been attempted.** Reil followed, and communi- cated much new information on the minute structure of several parts of the organ.^f The work of Rolando, which appeared in 18094]: has been little known till of late. Better fortune awaited the elaborate treatise of John and Charles Wenzel,§§ which is highly appreciated by every anatomical inquirer in Europe. Lastly, the description of Gordon,|||| the microscopical observations of Sir Everard Home,1i1F who has confirmed many of the facts ob- served by Della Torre, and the microscopical observations of Ehrenberg, who has examined every part of the brain with much care, and those of Treviranus, Valentin, and Weber, are entitled to attention. The brain may be considered as a continuous organ consisting of three divisions;—the convoluted, the laminated, and the smooth or uniform portions. Of these divisions, which are framed accord- ing to the peculiar external configuration of each, the first part * Anatomy of the Brain. By Henry Ridley. Lond. 1695. •f J. H. Glaserus de Cerebro. Basil, 1680. $ Jo. Dom. Santorini Observationes Anatomicrc. Lugdun. Bat. 1739. § D. Giovanni Maria Della Torre, Nuove Osservazione Microscopiche. Napoli; 1776. II Georgii Proehaska, De Structura Nervorum Tractatus Anatom. Viennae, 1779, et apud Op. Min. 1800. H Recherches sur la Structure du Cerveau. Memoiresde l’Academie des Sciences. Paris, 1781-83. ** Encefalotomia Nuova Universale di Vincenzo Malacarne Saluzzese. Torino, 1780. ++ fragmente Ueber die Bildung des Gchirns im Menschen. Vom Professor Reil. Archiv. fur die Physiogie. 8tcr Band, &c. et various papers in 9ter Band. ■4 Baggio sulla vera Structura del cervello dell’ uomo. Sassari, 1809. §§ J. et G. Wenzel, De Pcnitiore Structura Cerebri Hominis et Brutorum. Tubin- gs, 1812. 1111 Observations, &c. and Outlines of Human Anatomy. By John Gordon, M. 1*. &c. Edinburgh. Phil. Trans. 1821, p. 25, 1824, p. 1, and 1825, p. 436.