1021 MORBID STATES OF TITE LUNGS.—TUBERCLES. till the tubercular mass is broken down and excavated; and it is much less common to find a tubercle partly dissolved than entire, or a small vomica, after the tubercle has been destroyed by sup- puration. In this state the vomica is lined by a thin vascular membrane, sometimes by a thick yellowish one; and if small, it is rarely traversed by any vessel; but this is not unusual in large vomicce. The author also observes, that these tubercular masses afford, in the process of softening, an illustration of the general principle formerly laid down, that every inflamed part and ulcer presents at the same time different degrees of inflammation. The centre of the tubercle may be dead or expelled after the process of solution ; its crust may be in a state of suppurative softening ; the circumference may he inflamed; and this process diminishes in the parts of the lung farthest removed from the margin of the air- cells. In the manner now mentioned, the cavity of a vomica is progres- sively enlarged, until in desperate cases of consumption the patient sinks under the disease. The extent to which the lung is destroyed before this event takes place, varies according to the age of the parties. Similar views of the mode in which tubercles are originally de- posited in the lungs have been taken by M. Andral, Dr Carsewell, M. Ravin,* and other pathologists. The bronchial tubes terminate in shut sacs, lined by a fine mucous membrane, and enclosed by the submucous or filamentous tissue. This fine mucous membrane is liable to various forms of inflammation, in which it secretes a fluid or semifluid matter which contains much albumen, and conse- quently is liable to undergo spontaneous coagulation. This has been sometimes named strumous matter, glutinous matter, (Portal ) plastic lymph, (Schrocder,) coagulable lymph, purulent matter of particular nature, (Lerminier and Andral,) and tubercular matter. None of these denominations convey a just notion of the object; and the latter is objectionable, because it is applied indiscrimi- nately to several kinds of morbid texture, different both in nature and in form. But it is sufficient to know that the mucous mem- brane of these bronchial terminations or vesicles is liable to a kind or form of inflammation, which is perhaps peculiar, and that in this state it secretes matter, which, though at fil-st fluid, afterwards be- Memoire s ir les 1 ubercules, pour repondre a la question propose par l’Academie Royale de Medecme dans28Ao.it 1827. Par F. P. Ravin D M &c Men, de l’Aeademie Royale de Medecine, Tome IV. Paris 1835 p 304 ’ '