NERVOUS TISSUE. 365 to obtain the result in the most satisfactory form. These experi- ments, with many others of the same nature, were first performed by Professor Reil, and afterwards repeated and varied by Bichat and by Dr Gordon. Personal repetition of them enables me to assert, that, when correctly conducted, they never failed to give the results as described by these authors. Nervous tissue, like all others, receives a proportion of what may be denominated the systems of distribution,—cellular tissue and blood- vessels. In the substance of the former, the disposition of which we have already remarked, we find the more conspicuous branches of the latter distributed. In a more minute and divided form they penetrate the neurilema and nervous substance. Reil, who derived his conclusions from the result of delicate and successful injections, perhaps overrated the quantity of blood which in the sound state they convey; for it is quite certain, that, in the healthy state, hardly any red blood enters the nervous tissue, as may be easily shown by exposing the sciatic nerve of a dog or rabbit. No good chemical analysis of nervous matter has yet been pub- lished. Every chemical examination of it has been conducted on the assumption that it is analogous to cerebral matter. Of this, how- ever, there is no direct proof. In the analysis by Vauquelin the neurilematic covering appears not to have been detached,—a pro- ceeding always necessary to obtain correct results in this inquiry. The effects of acids and alcohol show that it contains albuminous matter; but beyond this it is impossible at present to make any pre- cise statements. This description may communicate an idea of the structure of the nervous chord in general. In particular situations this structure is considerably modified. The modifications to which we allude occur under two forms—ganglions (Die knoten ;) and plexuses (Die Ner- vengeflechte.) _ Every ganglion consists essentially of three parts; 1st, an exte- rior covering; 2d, a collection of minute nervous filaments; and, 3r/, a quantity of peculiar cellular or filamentous texture, by which these filaments are connected, and which constitutes the great mass of the ganglion. I he ganglions are of two kinds, the spinal or simple, and the non-spinal or compound. These two kinds of bodies differ from each other, 1 st, in the situation which they respectively occupy; 2d, in the kind of envelope with which they arc invested; 3d, in the mode in which the nervous filaments pass through them and from