225 ORGANIZATION. AN1) STRUCTURE, change not only in the tracheo-bronchial glands in subjects which he terms phthisical, but in the cervical glands in laryngeal con- sumption, and occasionally in persons cut off by mesenteric sci o- fula, (carreau,) and in the inguinal glands in persons who have had buboes. This change he considers the effect of inflammation.' To the same head are to be referred the earthy or calcareous de- positions (matiere platreuse, gypseuse) observed by Dupuy in these glands. 7. Melanotic deposition is common in the tracheo-bronchial lym- phatic glands,- and in those of the groin. Of the former, an ex- ample is at the present moment before me in the lungs of a woman much occupied by tubercular masses. CHAPTER XII, The three orders of tubes or canals, the anatomical characters, and pathological relations of which have now been completed, con- stitute what has been termed the Vascular Satstem, ( Vasa ; Sys- !tema Vasorum. Das Gefass System. Le Systone Vasculaire.) The great extent of its distribution, and the part which it performs in all the processes of the living body, both in health, and during disease, must be easily understood. In every texture and organ arteries and veins are found; and in all, except a few, the art of the anatomist has demonstrated those colourless valvular tubes de- nominated lymphatics. The arrangement of the former, especially in the substance of the several textures, essentially constitutes what is termed the organization of these textures. Many anatomists have imagined that each texture has a proper matter, or paren- chyma, by which it was supposed to be particularly distinguished, and which was conceived to consist of minute inorganic solid atoms. Whether this opinion be well founded or not, it is perhaps of little moment to inquire. At present it is certain that it is not suscep- tible of demonstration. The phenomena of injections, in which he was eminently suc- cessful, led Ruysch to entertain the opinion, that every substance Memoire Riir 1’ossification morbide, consideree comme une terminaison <los phleg- inasies. Par P. Rayer. Archives Generates, Tome I. p. 43.0, P