ERECTILE TISSUE. 175 is arrested, the spleen swells, but returns to its former dimensions as soon as the circulation is restored. 2d, In diseases; the parox- ysms of intermittent fever are accompanied with obvious enlarge- ment of this organ, which subsides at the conclusion of the parox- ysm. 3d, It appears that the same phenomenon takes place during digestion. Sir Everard Home, with the assistance of the microscopic in- spection of M. Bauer, has made many observations on the struc- ture of this organ. But his purpose appears to have been more particularly directed to ascertain the phenomena of its function and uses; and 1 cannot discover that his ideas on its intimate struc- ture, and the arrangement of its capillary system, are very precise or distinct. The most distinct examples, in short, of erectile tissue are to be found, according to Beclard, in the spongy texture which surrounds the urethra, in the cavernous body of the clitoris, the vascular structure of the nymphce, and in the nipple of the female. The structure of the lips in both sexes is not unlike. The veins of these parts may be shown to be well-marked and largely dilated at their origin, so as to give the appearance of cellular net-work. The same disposition is observed in the pulp of the fingers. It has been attempted to explain the motions of the iris by supposing it to be formed of this erectile tissue; but the justice of this conjec- ture seems doubtful. In the tissue now described it is manifest that the physiologist ought to place the phenomena of the process distinguished by the name of vital turgescence {turgor vitalis) by Hebenstreit,* * * § Reil,f Ackermann,j and Scblosser.§ Though these authors suppose vital turgescence in different degrees in almost all the textures of the animal body, their most distinct examples are taken from those parts which consist of erectile vessels. After the explanation of the anatomical structure above given, it is superfluous to seek for any other cause except the arrangement of the minute vessels, their helicine termination, and the disposition of the veins. * Brevis Expositio Doctrime Physiologic® lie Turgore Vitali. 1795. Ah Ernesto Benjamino Gottlieb Ilcbenstreit, M. D., &c., extat in Brera Sylloge Opusculorum Se- lect. Vol. II. Opusc. vi. f Archiv. fur die Physiologic, I. Band, 2. Heft, S. 172. X Ackermann Physische Darstellung der Lebenseraft, 1797. 1. Band, S. 11. § Georgii Eduardi Schlosser Dissertatio de Turgore Vitali ext. in Brera Sylloge, Vol. VII. Opusc. ii.