466 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. texture. To me lie appears to have considered carious and strumous disease of the small joints, especially in the wrist and fingers and in the tarsal and metatarsal bones, as spina ventosa ; and the latter he maintains to he an erroneous and improper name.* He regards it as produced in the manner of the cold or congestive inflammation. The great evil of all essays and writings in those days was con- founding the remote, efficient, and proximate or pathological causes together, and rendering all their doctrines more or less obscure by mingling ideas on the generation or formation of a disease with its actual nature. This is the case not only with Pandolphinus and Severinus, but with Peter de Marchettis, who has left a short essay on the subject. (1665.) Amidst these notions, however, it is easy to see that he regards the pathological characters of the disease as consisting in denudation, roughness, and caries of the bones of the wrist or metacarpus, the tarsus or metatarsus, and sometimes of the ends of the radius or ulna, the tibia or fibula. (1665). He also maintains that the bone is first affected, and then the periosteum.f If any doubt could be entertained as to the locality of the dis- ease assigned by de Marchettis, it would be dissipated by this cir- cumstance, that he tells his reader, that after the first indications of the disease is pungent, acute, lancinating pain, without swelling, the matter of the disease then raises the affected joint into a swelling, at first soft, loose, and indolent, of the same colour with the skin; and afterwards becoming hard; and when the probe is introduced, the bone is felt corrupted or carious. It is clear that he, like Spi- gelius and Severinus, describes here the inflammation of the arti- ticular ends of bones taking place in strumous persons. This affection, he further states, he observed mostly in persons of both sexes about the 25 th year. A doctrine similar, though in a more decided shape, was about the same time taught by Paul Ammann, professor at Leipsic. Ac- cording to him, spina ventosa is a corruption, abscess, or sphacelism in a hone, not only round joints, hut also about other parts, affect- ing the substance of bones earlier than the periosteum, equally com- mon in adults as in children,—arising from inflammation, some- times with great pain, sometimes with dull pain, with change of to- * De Recondita Abscessuum Natura. Lib. V. De Paedarthrocace, c. III. IV. A • VI. XI., p. 103. ■f Petri de Marchettis Patavini et Observat. Medico-Chirurg. Svlloge. Amstelodarai, 1G65, p. 195, 196, 197.