GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 628 tial escape of the contents of the bowel, and followed by effusion of sero-albuminous fluid from the internal or free surface of the peri- tonaeum. 3. In certain cases the isolated follicles are the seat of chronic inflammation, either alone or along with the aggregated follicle. In either case they present the appearance of pustules a little ele- vated, or fungous-looking flat tubercular bodies. These isolated follicles pass through the changes already mentioned in proceeding to ulceration. In the form of pustules they have been repeatedly mistaken for variolous pustules; and hence it has been said, that they are small-pox in the intestinal mucous membrane. A peculiar sort of broad elevated button-like appearance is oc- casionally seen in the intestinal mucous membrane in this disorder. The individual bodies are about two lines broad, sometimes three, irregularly circular, with flat tops. They are evidently raised above the level of the surrounding mucous membrane, and sometimes their margins project over the latter. The tops are fungous-look- ing and rough, and of a fawn or dirty yellow colour; and it seems as if the whole follicular mucous membrane had become thickened and hypertrophied. This is the result of a more chronic affection than the one already described. Occasionally these fungous-look- ing bodies are seated in the isolated follicles ; and sometimes in the ag a; mated follicles. 4. The disease now described may take place, as already stated, as a mere intestinal affection. Often, however, it is either connected with fever, or it is an effect of the operation of the febrific poison. In children and young persons it is often connected with the fever described as intestinal remittent fever. In adults it takes place along with fever which has been by several observers described as typhous fever. But when it was manifest that typhous fever, in the great majority of cases, took place, and continues to take place, without affection of the intestinal follicles, the fever in which this fol- licular disease was said to take place was denominated typhoid fever. The truth is, that the disease takes place in a fever which may present, according to its treatment, typhoid symptoms during the second septenary period, or rather towards the close of that period. But the fever, in which it most commonly takes place, is a remit- tent fever, with evening or afternoon exacerbations; and the per- sons most usually affected are children from 5 to 10, or young per- sons in general under the 30th year of age. The disease is much more common in certain localities than in others. In Paris it seems 4