GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, 802 Though abdominal dropsy is the constant and invariable effect of this lesion, so much so, that in every case of abdominal dropsy which is unattended by manifest enlargement of the liver, it may be inferred that this gland is in the granulated state, yet the dis- ease may be followed or associated with other lesions which precede the fatal event. Thus it may cause chronic peritonitis; pleurisy, especially the chronic form ; less frequently pericardial inflamma- tion ; pneumonia occasionally; pulmonary apoplexy; and if not, expectoration tinged with blood. From the observations of Dr Eichholtz of Konigsberg, 1 infer that the conjunction of granulated liver with granular kidney is also frequent in Germany.* The nature and cause of this degeneration has given rise to much inquiry and considerable difference of opinion. We have seen that Laennec imagined that it consisted in the formation of a new morbid product, which was infiltrated into the substance of the liver, which was liable to be formed in the same manner in the pa- renchyma of other organs, and which appearing at first in an in- cipient or nascent state, proceeded eventually to softening. It was further the idea of Laennec, that as the kirrhotic bodies were developed, the substance of the liver disappeared and was ab- sorbed. The correctness of this idea was first questioned by M. Boulland, who denies the fact of a new formation, and maintains that kirrhosis consists in what he calls a dissociation of the elements of the livei, viz. the glandular yellow portion and the red vascular portion. In the early stage, he conceives that the vascular network is enlarged and much loaded with blood. In the second stage, this vascular network, which is interposed between the granules of the yellow portion, becomes impermeable, but large ; it assumes a colour va- rying from gray rose to pale green, and allows turbid serum to escape. This idea implies that the granulated state of the liver is owing to congestion.! Andral ascribes kirrhosis to hypertrophy of the yellow or gra- nular matter of the liver, while the red or vascular matter remains either the same, or may be changed in colour to an olive-green, * Ueber die Granulirte Leber und Niere, und ihr Verhaltnis zur l uberculosen und Krcbsigen Dyscrasie. Von Dr H. Eichholtz zu Konigsberg. Mullers rc fur Anatomie und Physiologie. Jahrgang, 1815. Berlin. Seite 320. t Memoires de la Societc Medicale d’Emulation. Tome ix.