671 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. that the surgeon has not unfrequently occasion to observe corre- sponding points of narrow canals, as the urethra, adhering appa- rently by concretion of its sides.* I have had occasion to ad- vert above to a mode in which the vaginal mucous membrane may contract adhesions, and present the similitude of congenital imper- foration. The assertion of Bichat regarding the inaptitude of mu- cous surfaces to adhere requires, therefore, some limitation. Cer- tain facts lead me to infer that one of the conditions necessary to the albuminous exudation and the subsequent concretion of mutual surfaces consists in the destruction of the mucous epidermis by abrasion or ulceration, and the subsequent formation of granula- tions, which in the course of healing unite the opposite edges of the canal. V. Induration and thickening ; Cartilaginous transfor- mation OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE AND CANALS. ChONDROSIS. Hypertrophy It is not easy to say to what bead the change here adverted to should be referred. For it is not by any means easy to determine its exact nature; or even whether it be an affection of the mucous membrane solely, or of the muscular structure, or of both taken together. My chief reason for referring it to the pre- sent head is because there is a very considerable affection of the mucous membrane, at its free surface. The lesion consists in the conversion of a portion of mucous mem- brane and its subjacent tissue, generally muscular or fibrous, into a thick, hard, cartilaginous substance, sometimes with contraction of the canal, sometimes with dilatation. The mucous surface is irregular, honey-combed as it were, and rough, with numerous in- tersecting ridges, firm and generally of a whitish gray colour. It is liable to affect the mucous membrane of the oesophagus, find foi ms there one species of stricture j the mucous membrane of the rectum, where it also forms a species of stricture ; and the mucous membrane of the colon, where in like manner it generally causes arctation of the calibre of the canal. The region, however, in which this lesion is most distinctly seen, and proceeds to its greatest extent, is that of the ureters and bladder’. The former canals become thick to the diameter of half an inch and more, their coats are hard, firm, of cartilaginous consistence, and a gray-white colour ; the internal of mucous surface is rough and Jo* Sn|ith Ward> Mem' Med- Society, Vol. iii. p. 536.' Maclure, Mod. and Surg.