HETEROLOGOUS GROWTHS—SCIRRHUS OF THE PANCREAS. 849 or duodenum to that gland, or it involves that gland in common with other organs. Holscher gives two cases, one of which he calls scirrhus of the pancreas, the other cancerous degeneration of the pancreas. In the former he describes the gland as greatly ex- panded and developed, and so cartilaginous that it could scarcely be cut by the knife. It retained, nevertheless, its granular struc- ture. This case, therefore, is doubtful. In the second, he states that however much the pancreas may be disposed to scirrhous de- generation, it nevertheless resists the operation of the carcinoma- tous process m the neighbouring organs ; and among 60 cases of cancer of the stomach, in two only did the pancreas partake of the morbid action. One of these was in a man of 80 years, in whose body the pancreas was found little enlarged, but containing, dis- persed through its substance, knotty tuberosities, which, when di- vided, showed a fibro-cartilaginous structure, with intermixture of ull streaks, and several of which had proceeded to softening, e softened portion was like dissolved cheese, and exhaled a pe- culiarly disagreeable odour. One of these tubercular elevations opened by an ulcerative process advancing from within, and ad elevated bloody edges covered with some thin fetid ichor. It, iad not proceeded to the formation of fungi. The carcinomatous pancreas had contracted adhesions with the neighbouring organs * This bears much more the character of a heterologous growth and appeal s to have been an instance of tubercular scirrhus. In the case of a married female of 40 years old, and who after suffering for months under pain in the epigastric region, anxiety TZZZSt VOmit;? w*‘*1 great emaciation, died, inspect!™ presented the following state of parts ;—the stomach normal as far as the indurated portion of the pylorus; but the pancreas indu- cted b'§ T'06 T ProPer size! its lobular structure obli- ge duel „fTre" 1 u”d S0M> r^h-white in colour ; , rsung and the hepatic vessels pervious • the former E.'ilS,'’”"- m matters with emaciation, besides an ulcer in tb t'C0'?U,'ed rnfe duodenum, immediately beyond the pylor^ch « Medizinische, Ciiirurgische und Onbtlnlrrmln ■ i ... , versche Annalen, v. Band. 2 Ileft. ]«]] ' glSche Wah™ehmungen. Hanno- + Scin'hose Verhartungdes Pancreas.' Von Ritter v.r • • , • mtter, Medizmische Zeitung. ] pjp) 3 ii