199 SYSTEM OF EXIIALANTS. Frank, I believe, first (1786) distinguished one of these tumours on the chin of a girl of nine, of the size and shape of a goose-egg, as of the encysted kind, and first applied to it the denomination of Immatoma* About the same time (1789/Monteggia described the bloody tumour similar to that of Severinus, as occurring in the arm-pit, and attaining a great size, and, when opened, speedily prov- ing fatal, f An example of the disease was afterwards seen by Scarpa in the same situation in the person of a priest about fifty, in the thy- roid gland and neck of other subjects, and in the breast of a lady and Montini saw it in the thigh of a woman in childbed at Lodi.§ An example of this species of tumour was in 1843 given by the late Dr Hannay of Glasgow. It occurred in the lateral and posterior region of the neck of a child of fourteen months, in other respects healthy. It appeared first on the left side of the neck, half-way between the jaw and collar-bone, in the form of a small hard body about the size of a gooseberry. It remained stationary for months. When seen by Dr Hannay, it had attained the size of a goose’s egg, consisted of two or more lobules, was smooth, something glistening, and of a very indistinct shade of blue or ve- nous blood colour. The long diameter was horizontal. It was elastic, and gave a sense of fluctuation ; and touching or handling seemed to cause pain. It was punctured by the lancet, and three ounces of grumous but fluid blood were discharged. After this the cyst seems to have contracted. Dr Hannay adds, that previous to this he had seen four cases. Of these, one was presented by Mr Brookes to his pupils as a case of abscess; and some alarm was caused, when the puncture by the lancet was followed by blood apparently pure. Against mistakes of this kind, if not to be obviated, surgeons would be prepared, by in- forming themselves of the nature of the hcEmatoma or blood-cyst. Of the other three cases, Dr Hannay had seen two within six months; one in an infant, the other in a woman between forty and fifty years of age.|] Joannis Petri Frank, Mcrl. Clinic, in Ticinensi Academia, Prof. Discursus Aca- demic. mense Junii 1786, habitus, Observationem de Hrematomate, &c. exhibens- Delectus, Vol. III. Ticini, 1787. t Monteggia, Fasciculi Pathol, p. 88. Mcdiolani, 1789. 7 Treatise on the Anatomy, &c. Appendix, p. 456. See also Richter de retro tu- more mamma). Works of Else, and J. E. Pohl de Varice, § XI. § Montini, Saggio di Osscrrazioni et Riflessioni Chirurgico-pratiche. Lodi, 1808. II Pathological Gleanings ; or Cases in Dispensary Practice. By A. J. Hannay, M. D. Ac. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. LX. p. 319, October 1813.