838 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. hardened, and sometimes increased in size to the extent of six times its natural bulk.* Mr Todd also described, in 1817, an instance of induration and enlargement, or what must now be called hy- pertrophy of the pancreas, pressing the common gall-duct ;f and Dr Percival and Dr Crampton recorded, in 1818, examples of the disorder attended with unusual compression of the same duct and the symptoms of jaundice.^ From the dissection recorded by Dr Crampton, it may be in- ferred that inflammation attacking the pancreas renders that gland harder, and larger or more tumid than usual, and that, either in consequence of this tumefaction, it compresses and obstructs the common gall-duct, or the inflammatory action extending to the surrounding parts produces a morbid effusion, which gives rise to the same result. Since the time of Dr Crampton, many instances of different de- grees of induration of the pancreas, sometimes alone, more com- monly along with affections of the duodenum or other abdominal organs, have been recorded by Dr Heineken, Dr Bright, Dr Wil- son, Dr Ilolscher, Dr Ritter, Dr Landsberg, and other observers, all of which tend to show that induration of the pancreas is not a very uncommon disease; and that this induration, though usually denominated scirrhus, is either the effect of inflammation or accom- panies that process. From the cases recorded by these authors, it results that, though induration may affect any part of the pancreas, or the whole of that gland, yet most usually it is the head of the organ, that is in- durated ; and at the same time it may be enlarged. The pancreatic substance is then hard and cuts firm, grating on the knife. In some cases it is stated to be like cartilage; in others like the boiled udder of the cow. Usually there are adhesions or recent lymph connecting the pancreas to other adjoining parts. The ta- bulated acinoid structure is not always very manifest. Ritter * Compendium of Medical Practice. History of a Remarkable Case of Enlargement of the Biliary Ducts. By Charles H. Todd, M. R. C. S. Dublin Hospital Reports and Communications, Vol. i. p. 825. Dublin, 1817, + Tvvo Cases of Inflammation and Enlargement of the Pancreas. By Edward Per- cival, M. B„ M. R. I. A., Bath. Read 1st June 1818. Transactions of the Associa- tion of the Fellows and Licentiates of King and Queen College of Physicians in Ireland, Vol. ii. p. 128. Dublin, 1818. Additional Cases, by John Crampton, M. D., Ac. Ibid. p. 134.