994 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. glaring, and slightly suffused, in other instances hollow and ghastly. In the other symptoms considerable variety takes place. Thus in one case, no complaint or symptoms appear which indicate a serious disorder of the lungs. The patient is merely feeble, with dingy wan complexion, irregular breathing, cough, and a little expecto- ration. In other cases, pains, more or less acute, are felt in the chest, and the labour of respiration, with debility, is considerable. The most characteristic symptom of the distemper, the foetid of- fensive breath, is not an early symptom. It does not take place till the disease has subsisted for some time, two weeks, or even a longer period; and indeed it appears only to take place after a communication between the seat of disorder and the bronchial tubes and the air inspired and expired has been established. When it takes place it is impossible to entertain any doubt of the presence of the distemper; but gangrene of the lungs may, on the other hand, exist, and have proceeded to a considerable extent, yet with- out giving rise to fcetor of the breath and expectoration. As the disease advances, expectoration becomes more abundant, with sputa reddish, brown, blood-coloured, or consisting of blood more or less pure, and the characteristic fetid odour. Respiration becomes very irregular and laborious, being at one time slow, at another quick and panting. In general, immediately before the fetid odour of the breath and sputa is manifest, more or less stupor and much anxiety come on, with small, feeble, irregular pulse. In general, after the fcetor of the breath and sputa is established, the distemper tends rapidly to the fatal termination. In one case which fell under my own observation, the distemper continued thirty days before the foetid odour of the breath was evinced. The breath and sputa were foetid on the thirtieth day of the disorder, and death took place the second day afterwards. In one of the cases by M. Schrceder, death took place nine days after the first occurrence of fcetor. In another case attended by myself, the offensive fcetor of the breath and sputa was recognized on the 23d of February, and death took place on the 6th of March, eleven days after. This, I believe, may be regarded as nearly as may be, the latest period that life is likely to be prolonged, after the occurrence of well- marked fcetor of the breath and sputa. The duration of this disease varies from four weeks to two months. It is rare that physicians witness its commencement; for it is only when the patient can no longer move about, or pursue his ordinary