GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 242 only in the middle, but on each side. The middle one is bounded above by the posterior end of the middle band and the back part of the vault; below, by the pineal body and.the four eminences; before, it is continuous with the middle ventricle; behind, it looks to that space between the convoluted surface of the brain and the laminated surface of the cerebellum, which is occupied by the hori- zontal part, (tentorium cerebelli), of the hard membrane. On the sides,—that is beyond the margin of the body with the four eminences, a different arrangement is observed. The poste- rior end of the middle band penetrates into the substance of the hemispheres; but the gray chords which have been already*noticed, in pursuing their lateral course, are immediately enveloped in white plates, derived, as we shall see, from the sides of the vault, assum- ing thus a cylindrical appearance. Thus is formed exactly oppo- site to the cerebral limbs, a body with a free rounded surface, which bends in a curvilinear direction laterally and downwards, and is found to be the great hippocampus or cylindroid process. (Chaus- sier.) In observing this curvilinear course, it rests on and corre- sponds to, the upper margin of the cerebral limb, as it issues from the optic chamber. It must not, however, be imagined that it ad- heres to this body. The surfaces both of the beginning or upper end of hippocampus, and of the cerebral limb, are free and uncon- nected. They are indeed covered with vascular membrane, (pia mater,) which keeps them in apposition; but if this be removed, as it ought always to be, the two surfaces will be found quite distinct, and in no manner connected, unless in corresponding with each other. The whole of this communication may be seen, and is best examined by keeping the organ in its natural position, and view- ing it from behind, after the posterior parts of the cerebral hemi- spheres have been removed. It forms what was described by Bichat under the name of the great cerebral Jissure.* This denomination does not accurately express the idea intended; nor does the idea itself, it may be remarked, present a correct view of the natural arrangement. The conformation which I have attempted to de- scribe does not form a fissure, but a regular symmetrical opening, by which the convoluted surface communicates distinctly and di- rectly with that which is figurate. The next step of the process in the further exposition of this opening or communication, requires the inversion of the brain, and * Anat. Descriptive, Tom. III.