GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 64 instrument during dissection, inoculation by morbid secretions from living animals, the bite of a venomous serpent, acrid or poi- sonous substances of the acrid family applied directly to the skin or adipose membrane, sprains or injuries of the fibrous tissues, and contused or lacerated wounds. Though this disease may arise both spontaneously, and also in consequence of lacerated or punctured wounds, or even mere scratches or abrasions, and in consequence of various poisonous substances applied to the skin or the adipose membrane, it appears further, in certain circumstances, to ensue on the application to the skin of various acrid and irritant poisons. Thus, in the expe- riments of Orfila upon the mode of operation of these poisons, it was a frequent occurrence, to observe diffuse inflammation in the adipose tissue ensue on the application of such substances as bry- ony-root, elaterium, colocynth, gamboge, spurge-flax, euphorbium, &c. to the skin or the adipose membrane exposed by wound. Dr Duncan relates a case communicated by Dr Spens, in which it followed the application of an ammoniacal plaster for the removal of rheumatic pains. It has been observed to follow or attend ma- lignant pustule. (Practice of Medicine, Yol. i. p. 656.) The account of the necroscopic appearances, however, above given, is applicable principally to the disease as it takes place in the subcutaneous adipose tissue; and perhaps, as it spreads to the intermuscular filamentous tissue. These appearances, though in all general characters similar in other tissues, are varied according to the portion of adipose membrane attacked. The disease may either, when originally commencing in the sub- cutaneous adipose tissue, spread to the periangial, or it may com- mence in the latter at once, and produce destructive ravages in the periangial sheath, and most pernicious effects on the blood-vessels. Thus, I have elsewhere recorded the principal circumstances of a case in which the disease attacked the periangial adipose tissue of the right carotid artery and jugular vein, destroyed the sheath for the space of eight inches, denuded and exposed both vessels, pro- duced gangrene and erosion of the artery and inflammation of the jugular vein, with obliteration of its canal, and denudation of the trunk of the pneumogastric nerve. (Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. xlviii. p. 396.) The adipose tissue connected with the internal organs is also liable to be attacked by inflammation. That enclosing the kidneys