GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 464 similar to themselves; and in this he appears to confirm certain of the views of Scarpa.* Lastly, several observations by Dr Watson Weinyss favour the inference, that the living parts of the old bone do not contribute to the formation of the new one; and that in nekrosis, the periosteum is the agent of ossific reproduction.f Regeneration is most frequent in the diaphyses of the cylindrical hones. Many cases of reproduction of the humerus, the femur, and especially the tibia, are on record. Of the ulna three only are mentioned, and of the radius only one, of the clavicle one, and of the scapula one. Of the lower jaw, regeneration, either partial or total, has been recorded by various observers. The flat bones of the skull are very rarely regenerated ; and per- haps it would be difficult to produce an authentic and unequivocal example, unless that given by Weidmann (pi. xii.) be admitted. Mr Russell, however, states that he has seen instances of apertures of the cranial bones being supplied by solid matter which, to his observation, possessed all the qualities of solid bone. This never- theless resembles more the reproduction after fracture than that after nekrosis. The short or cuboid bones appear never to be reproduced. 3. Spina Ventosa.—Inflammation of the medullary web of the epiphyses and the cuboid or short bones produces very different effects; and seems occasionally and in certain circumstances to be the cause of the disease so vaguely spoken of under the name of Spina Ventosa. The history of this disease is curious, and deserves attention from the erroneous notions that have at different periods prevailed on its correct pathology. The name Spina Ventosa, or flatulent, or wind thorn (DerWind- dorn), was employed by the Arabian surgeons of the tenth century to designate certain painful affections of the bones, which were probably not always of the same kind, and which, there is strong reason to believe, did not depend on the same pathological cause. By Rhazes, who is believed first to have described the disease, it is represented to consist in swelling, erosion, and corruption of the bone, from the presence of hot humours corroding and perforating its substance.^ Similar is the view given by Avicenna, who represents the cause of * On Necrosis. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. XXI. p. 1. London, 1838. f Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. LXIII. p. 302. Edinburgh, 1845. + Joannis Freind, M. D., Opera Omnia Medica. Londini, 1733. Folio. Historia Medicime. Pars Secunda, p. 487.