SKIN. 513 scab, which consists of the cuticle of the part with the dried fluid adhering to it. Minute elevations of this description have been termed vesicles (vcsiculce.), and the contained fluid lymph by Di Willan. The fluid thus distinguished is not the same as the coa- gulable lymph of J. Hunter. It is nevertheless sero-albuminous, and appears to be quite similar to that which is secreted in the first stage of suppuration. The process, by which it is secreted, is con- fined to the vascular surface of the corion, and is not attended by ulceration of that surface in millet rash, shingles (herpes), and the red-fret or mercurial eruption (eczema.) In chicken-pox it is some- times attended by idceration of the corial surface, sometimes not. b. In the other two forms of vesicular inflammation, though the process commences at the surface of the corion, it finally affects the substance of that membrane. c. In the limpet-shell vesicle(rupia.), inflammation of the punctuate or circumscribed character commences in one or more points of the outer surface of the corion, and causes the secretion of a thin clear fluid, which first elevates the cuticle into a broad flat vesicle, and soon becoming opaque, oozes through the broken cuticle, and is hardened into thin, superficial, but in general laminated scabs. These vesicles are surrounded by a red, hard, and painful margin or base, indicating slow inflammation of the corial tissue. The progress of this form of cutaneous inflammation demon- strates clearly and satisfactorily the gradual transition of the morbid action from the surface to the substance of the corion. The in- flammation confined at first to a small spot by the usual zone or areola, causes merely sero-albuminous secretion and consequent elevation of the cuticle. If at this time the cuticle be removed accidentally or intentionally, the subjacent surface of the corion is intensely red, soft, or velvety and pulpy, elevated, and extremely tender, while the surrounding ring or hoop of skin is hard, and equally elevated and red. From the softened inner portion the secretion of sero-albuminous fluid, generally of a reddish tint, con- tinues; and the surface itself begins to become rough, and to lose its velvet aspect. This indicates incipient ulceration, which pro- ceeds to affect the substance of the corion, until it is either much or wholly destroyed, generally in the form of an inverted cone; while the place of the destroyed skin is supplied by the sero- albuminous secretion, which hardens as it is formed, and seems thus to sink deeper and deeper into the skin. In the meanwhile, k k