71 ADIPOSE TISSUE. one weighed 480 pounds, and another 500 pounds. And the Bres- lau Collections contain cases in which the human body weighed 580 and 600 pounds. In females and in eunuchs it is more abundant than in males; in females deprived of the ovaries it is more abundant than in those possessed of these organs; and it is well known that sterility is fre- quent among the corpulent of both sexes. In some circumstances this accumulation may be so great as to constitute disease, (Poly- sarcia adiposa, Cyrilli, Sauvages, Cullen, and Good;) and in other circumstances the deposition of fat is a means which the secret- ing system seems to employ to relieve fulness and tension of the vessels, and if not to cure, at least to obviate morbid states of the circulation. (Parry.) Accumulations of fat are said to take place in some animals in a few hours in certain states of the atmosphere. During a fog of twenty-four hours’ continuance, thrushes, wheat- ears, ortolans, and red-breasts are reported to become so fat that they are unable to fly from the sportsman. (Bichat.) 4. Local Hypertrophy. The adipose membrane is liable to a form of hypertrophy, local in situation, and of a peculiar character. The surface of the person and extremities presents many small tumours, varying in size from a garden pea to that of a filbert, soft, com- pressible, movable under the skin, and indolent. In some the sur- face acquires a bluish tint, apparently from compression of the ves- sels of the skin. In the most marked case of this which I have seen, the number was very considerable, probably not less than eighty or ninety of different sizes. On inspection after death, which was the consequence of another disease, these bodies were found to consist of globular or spheroidal masses of fat, not different from that of the ordinary fat, contained within membranous capsules, with walls a little firm. The individual was corpulent; but the presence of these bodies seemed, from the account of his medical attendants, to exert no appreciable influence on the state of his health. These bodies appear to be merely the result of hypertrophy af- fecting many separate points of the adipose membrane. 5. Extreme Diminution. The diminution or disappearance of fat is much more frequent than its extraordinary abundance. This diminution is said to depend on one or other of the following causes. Is/, Long abstinence, as in fasting, and the periodical sleep of dormant and hybernating animals; 2 c/, Organic diseases,