ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 99 It appears, therefore, that in every case of aneurism there is eventually laceration. The only difference is in the mode of ori- gin, which in some is rupture, and in others mere dilatation.* This question M. Breschet investigated anatomico-pathologicallyin 1832, and drew the following conclusions. 1st, That there exist true aneurisms, that is, aneurisms consisting in dilatation of the ar- terial walls without any apparent lesion, and without any solution of continuity in the membranes of these vessels. 2d, That arteries of all calibres, from the largest to the most capillary, may undergo this dilatation. 3d, That the arteries of bone are liable to this expan- sion. 4th, That these true dilatations may be distinguished as to ex- ternal form, into a. sacciform, b. fusiform, or spindle-shaped, c. cylindroid, and d. cirsoid, or arterial varix; that there are also mixed aneurisms in which the middle arterial tunic is torn, and in which the inner is protruded through it in the form of a hernial tumour, while the external or cellular coat is dilated and forms the exterior covering of the aneurism; and that this mixed aneurism depends on lesion of the arterial tunics, and may be multiplied, that is, more than one occurring in the same individual.f This accords generally with the results obtained by Mr Hodg- son. But it must be observed, that, whatever be the amount of ex- perience in France as to the comparative frequency of true aneu- rism and mixed aneurism, it is certain that the latter is the form of disease most common in England. It may be said that we see fifty cases of mixed aneurism for one of true aneurism. In short, aneu- rism in England is a disease dependent on previous lesion of the arterial tunics. In its final result an aneurismal sac hursts in one of two modes. 1-^j When it bursts into the cavity of any of the serous membranes, as the pleura, pericardium, or peritonmum, the breach is formed by laceration. 2d, When it bursts through the skin or into cavities lined by a mucous membrane, the breach is the effect of sloughing and ulceration. Certain divisions of the arterial system are evidently more liable than otheis to aneurism ; and in general the comparative liability may be tiaced to the greater or less susceptibility of disease of the tunics, and the situation of the vessel in being exposed to frequent motion. Hence aneurisms are ceeteris paribus more frequently * Hodgson on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 74. t Memoiie sur les Ancurismes. Par M. Gilbert Breschet. Memoires dc PAca- demie Royalc de Medecine, Tome troisieme. Paris, 1833. 4to, p. 101.