GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1024 Irom that of a garden pea or a cherry-stone, to that of a walnut or even larger. Though the surrounding lung may be sound, yet the portions of lung which previously were in the place of these tubercular masses are completely solidified; and hence neither bronchial tubes nor blood-vessels are traced into them. Another lesion, which has been believed to form a certain stage of this process of the conversion of isolated or simple tubercles into aggregated tubercles, is that which has been named gray, semitransparent granulations, and which, indeed, are the miliary or cartilaginous tubercles of Bayle. It is certain, both from the researches of Dr Carsewell, Andral, and Cerutti, that they may exist in the lungs without giving rise to the peculiar structure already described as tubercular. They are generally isolated, very seldom aggregated, disseminated or dispersed through the lungs almost indiscriminately ; and it is very doubtful whether, if they be formed in the air-cells, they are always formed in them. Andral regards these gray granulations as indurated and hyper- trophied air cells. I have several times observed them in the fila- mentous tissue of the lung, in such circumstances that I thought it scarcely possible for them to be formed in the cells. In some in- stances they appear like transformation of certain portions of the lymphatic vessels or glands of the lungs. They are occasionally observed in the lungs of quarry-men, stone-cutters, and hewing- masons. In certain cases, however, of this sort of lesion, it has been as- certained that these gray, semitransparent, hard tubercles are de- posited originally in the pulmonic vesicles. Thus, Dr Home men- tions that a specimen of this kind of tubercle, occurring in a hew- ing-mason, was presented in 1838 to the Anatomical Society, in which it was found that in the centre of each tubercle was contained a grain of sand or earthy matter, ascertained to consist of silica and carbonate of lime, and which had no doubt been inhaled, and gave rise, by mechanical irritation, to chronic inflammation in the ends of the bronchial tubes. A third lesion, which has been sometimes rather vaguely called tubercular, is what may be termed gray hepatization, occurring in definite masses, or circumscribed gray hepatization, or, what might be less objectionable, circumscribed tyromatous deposition. In this state, a portion of lung, more or less extensive, becomes the seat of considerable induration and solidification ; and when a