822 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. In the museum of the College of Surgeons of Dublin, are seve- ral preparations of tumours removed either from the site or the substance of the parotid. A. a 80 is one from the substance of the parotid gland. It is about the size of a turkey’s egg; and it was contained in a fibrous cyst, which adhered to the substance of the gland. Its texture is in some parts fibrous and dense; in others it presents patches of gelatinous consistence; and in one, in spots near the surface, these patches are soft and bloody. This had not recurred 12 years after operation. This tumour was not in the parotid, but only touching it. A. a 81 is the section of a tumour, about 3 inches long, lobu- lated, firm, and pale in colour, which was contained within a cyst, and was imbedded in the parotid gland. A. a 82 is a tumour of the parotid, in an aged female, supposed to be scirrhous. The texture of the gland is involved. This ap- pears to have been removed after death. A. a 83 is a tumour removed by Mr R. Power from the parotid region of a married female, aged 40. The disease had commenced nine years previously, by a hard swelling about the size of a pea, near the left angle of the jaw. At the time of admission to hospital the tumour was large; oc- cupying the external part of the parotid gland, displacing the lobe of the ear, extending upwards as high as the zygoma, and back- wards to the sterno-mastoid muscle. It was hard and resisting to the touch, and in the fixed condition of the jaw, slightly moveable. The tumour was the seat of sharp tingling pain, and caused conside- rable difficulty in mastication. Other symptoms were pain in the left eye-ball, with dimness in vision and internal squinting: numbness and soreness of the left side of the face; impairment of articula- tion and of the sense of taste, with atrophy of the left half of the tongue, which, when protruded, was drawn to that side.* The tu- mour was easily removed by operation. The tumour consists of two globular masses, unequal in size. The large portion is firm and heavy, presenting on section the compact hard texture of scirrhus with radiating fibrous bands, with slight softening at one or two points. The small tumour con- * This statement is not quite intelligible. If the tongue were drawn to the left side, in which the tumour was situate, it shows that the right side was paralysed. It ought, according to all that is known, to have been the left, side that was paralysed ; and the tongue would then have been drawn to the right side. The mistake may be clerical.