GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 30 24 hours the amount of urine voided is about six or seven times greater than in the state of health. The presence of saccharine matter in the urine enables it, by the addition of yeast, to undergo fermentation and furnish alcohol. In this state of the urine, saccharine matter is found also in the gastric juice, and in the blood; and may be obtained from the fluids by chemical analysis. There is, therefore, the best reason to be- lieve, that sugar, when it appears in the urine, is previously formed in the stomach by some great perversion in the digestive and as- similative power. CHAPTER III. FILAMENTOUS OU CELLULAR TISSUE. ( Tela Cellulosa, TlSSU Cel- lulaire,— Tissu muqueux of Bordeu,— Corpus Cribrosum, Hip- pocratis,— Corps Cribleux of Fouquet,—Reticular membrane of William Hunter.) Section I. The general distribution of the filamentous or cellular tissue was first maintained by Haller, and Charles Augustus de Bergen, and afterwards made the subject of more elaborate discussion by William Blunter and Bordeu. It may be described as a substance consisting of very minute thready lines, which follow no uniform or invariable direction, but which, when gently raised by the for- ceps, present the appearance of a confused and irregular net-work. As these minute lines cross each other, they form between them spaces of a figure not easily determined, and perhaps not uniform. By some authors these spaces or intervals have been named cells ; but, accurately speaking, the term is not fortunately applied. The component lines, which do not exceed the size of the silk-worm threads, are so slender, that they do not form those distinct parti- tions which the term cell implies; and though by forcible disten- sion, such as takes place in insufflation or separation by forceps, cavities appear to be formed, these, it will be found, are artificial, and result from the separation of an infinity of the slender fila- ments of which the part is composed. These interlineal spaces ne- cessarily communicate on every side with each other; and indeed the most distinct way of forming a true idea of the structure of the cellular tissue is to suppose a certain space of the animal body