INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE IN SMALL-POX. 649 intestinal mucous corion appeared to be suddenly struck by morti- fication, forming a species of mucous carbuncle, (anthrakion,) an like that requiring to be thrown off by a long process of ulceration. The eschars thus discharged left ulcers extensive and iriegulai. On this point I refer to what has been said above on the sloughs of the muciparous follicles. § 12. Variolous inflammation.—It has been an opinion not un- common, that the variolous poison produces in the mucous surfaces, and especially along the tract of the gastro-enteric mucous mem- brane, pustules, similar to those of the skin; and sundry instances of papilla:, pustules, and similar bodies in the stomach or intestines, recorded by Lieutaud, have been supposed to give countenance to this idea. Upon this point, however, facts are something discor- dant. 1. In Mr Heaviside’s museum is a preparation demonstrating the appearance of numerous genuine pustules of the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, and half way down the oesophagus.* In one subject, in like manner, Wrisberg counted 14 distinct pustules on the palatine arch, on the posterior and inferior part of the velum more than 12, and many in the neighbourhood of the epiglottis, and in the upper part of the pharynx, but observed general red- ness only in the rest of the oesophagus. In another subject he ob- served on the mucous surface of the larynx and trachea a crop of singular warty eminences, varying in size from a lentil to a grain of hemp seed, round or oblong in shape. These bodies Wrisberg states he took care to distinguish from inflamed mucous follicles.f Sir Gilbert Blane, to the same effect, records an instance of fatal confluent small pox, in which the whole mucous surface of the oeso- phagus, stomach, duodenum, and intestines, to the rectum, was found beset with small round ulcerated spots. These were most crowded in the duodenum, and in the colon. They were dark- coloured in the centre like cutaneous pustules. In the same sub- ject, the mucous membrane of the trachea and bronchia was occu- pied with similar ulcerated spots4 2. Notwithstanding these facts, however, which are accurately stated, it is not absolutely certain that genuine phlyctidia have even * Howship, Observations, p. 253. + Henrici Augusti Wrisbergii, I). M., &c. Commentation um, Medici, Physiolog. &c. Argumenti. Vol. i. Gottingie, 1800, P. 52, &c. X Some Facts and Observations, &c. by Gilbert Blane,' M. D. Transactions of a Society, Vol. iii. p. 425.