NATURE OF KIRRHOSIS. 893 with increase or diminution in its volume; the latter being the cause of the shrivelling. * Q * Cruveilhier, as well as Andral, denies the formation of a new substance ; and considering the appearance and relation of the mi- nute bodies constituting this change, he infers that they are part of the acini or glandular granules of the liver in a state of hypertrophy, while, in consequence of these hypertrophied granules, the others are atrophied or wasted, f In 1837, Dr Carsewell brought forward, on the nature and for- mation of this disease, an hypothesis which has had in several points several followers. Rejecting the idea of Laennec, that kirrhosis depends on the formation of a new tissue, Dr Carsewell regards the change as consisting in atrophy of the lobular, that is the glan- dular structure of the organ, produced by the presence of a con- tractile fibrous tissue formed in the capsule of Glisson. + This idea has been more or less decidedly adopted by Mr O’Ferral] Mr R. W. Smyth,§ ami some others ; while part of the hypothesis’ that relating to the induration of the substance of the capsule of Ghsson, corresponds with an hypothesis presently to be mentioned. In 1839, Dr Hallmann of Berlin announced formally in his dissertation an hypothesis which had. been in various modes and quarters occasionally produced. This is, 1st, that in kirrhosis ypertrophy of the cellular or ligamentous tissue of the liver takes 18*^Clinique Medicate, Partie Vieme, Liv. Ilieme, Section I. Chapitre III. Paris, The ideas of M. Andral regarding the granular liver are founded on his noting f its natural anatomical structure. This is perfectly t s of majority of anatomical observers. He states that in the liv , dea ofthe turally, so arranged as to represent the form of a sponee Or "° ^ °XISt na‘ !”*»«• *»e solid P„. of .he sponge, o„„S, L£3el. .^1' °r ™f,ing in it, end consequent], eon.nin, little bLr g extremely vascular, in appearance c.vemou* aadTdc^Mt ?“"T white substance. ' m Bie areofe of this The white substance of which M Andral here md intergranular cellular tissue. The red substance .&I!pears to be the interiobular ained in its areola: ; but besides this there i t * ^ and * con- i' the granular or acinoid, and which consists of theT'T 7 '',7°"' substance> whic)l whole gland. the ends of 8aI1-ducts throughout the t Anatomie Pathologique, Livraison xii. Paris, 1837 . + Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease Rv R i , n London. Folio. 1838. Atrophy 2, Plate ii. By. Robert Carsewell, M. D. § Dublin Journal, Volume xxv. p. 321-524. Dublin, 1844.