549 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. sending previously small prolongations through ducts on each side of the ceru montanum, from which it is believed to be continued through the vasa deferentia, to the vasa efferentia of the testicle. Continued over the inner surface of the urinary bladder, it is pro- longed through the ureters to the pelvis and infundibula of the kidney. In the female, besides passing in this direction, it ascends into the womb, and passes through the Fallopian or uterine tubes? at the upper extremity of which it terminates in an abrupt opening into the sac of the peritonaeum,—the only instance in the whole body in which a mucous and serous surface communicate freely and directly. These two orders of membranous tissue have each two surfaces? an attached or adherent, and a free one. The adherent surface is attached, 1st, to muscles, as in the tongue ; most of the mouth and fauces, ffisophagus, and whole alimentary canal, and the bladder; 2d, to fibrous membranes, as in the nasal cavities and part of the larynx, in which it is attached to periosteum or perichondrium, the palate, ureter, and pelvis of the kidney ; 3d, to fibro-cartilages, as in the windpipe, {trachea,) and bronchial tubes. The free surface is not uniform or similar throughout. The ap- pearance of the pituitary or Schneiderian membrane is different from that of the stomach or intestines ; the surface of the tongue and mouth is different from that of the trachea; and the free sur- face of the urethra is unlike that of the bladder. These variations depend on difference of structure, and are connected with a diffe- rence in properties; yet anatomists have improperly applied to the whole what was peculiar to certain parts only, and have thus creat- ed a system, in which some truth is blended with much misrepre- sentation. Mucous membrane consists, like skin, of a conon or derma, and an epidermis or cuticle. The mucous corion is a firm dense gray substance, which forms the ground-work of the membrane in most regions of the body, but which is evidently represented by the fibrous system, e. g. the pe- riosteum or perichondrium, in some other situations. It is most distinctly seen in the mouth and throat, and in various parts of the alimentary canal. In the first situation it is more vascular, less gray and dense than in the intestinal mucous membrane. It possesses two surfaces, an inner, adherent to the submucous filamentous tissue, and an outer or proper mucous surface. In the