232 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. terior part of the convoluted surface, or that which corresponds to the cerebellum, though distinguished by no evident mark or limit, has been with equal impropriety named the posterior lobe. If the whole region be examined from the curvilinear hollow to the posterior tip of the hemisphere, it affords no mark, line, or boundary on which to establish this popular and much used di- vision ; and the whole presents one uniform region of convolu- tions, which resemble in every respect those found on other parts of this surface. The whole region, therefore, ought to be viewed as a single division of the convoluted surface; but as its posterior part rests not on the cranium, but on the horizontal portion of the hard membrane which covers the small brain, while the division of lobes must be discarded as artificial, it may be expedient to subdivide the surface into two, the medio-inferior and postero-inferior regions of the convoluted surface, according as they correspond to different containing parts. The first, which near the curvilinear hollow, is slightly convex or rounded, is lodged in a considerable cavity of the cranium, formed by the sphenoid and temporal bones, bounded before by the spheno- frontal arch, and behind by the pyramid or petrous portion of the temporal bone. This part of the convoluted surface, which may be named the spheno-temporal, is one of considerable importance, and should be accurately known by the anatomical student. The posterior division of this region, which is plane, corresponds to the horizontal or cerebellic part of the hard membrane, and, though not to be distinguished by any innate or organic limit,, may, however, for the sake of more precision, be marked by this adventitious character.* It may be named the cerebellic region of the convoluted surface. The ordinary appearance of the convoluted surface is well known. It is formed of cerebral matter, of a gray or dirty wax colour, the surface of which is smooth and polished, where it has not been rent by the removal of the membranes and their attachments. The con- volutions consist of longitudinal eminences, rounded transversely, running in various directions, and separated from each other by deep furrows. If these be examined when the membranous cover- * Lest the use of these terms be objectionable by their obscurity, I may observe that, in describing parts of the human body, it is not unfrequently requisite to have recourse not only to marks on the organ described, but also to certain characters be- longing to the contiguous parts. The first of these may be named the organic or in- •uutc, as they belong to the organ ; the second, which do not belong to it, should be named achen titiovs or esoteric. This is indispensable in relative anatomy.