GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 844 To one symptom, which, if constant, must be important, Dr Bright, in 1832, directed attention. This consists in the discharge of oily or fatty matters from the bowels in certain affections of the pancreas. In three cases in which the pancreas was considerably indurated, and had contracted firm adhesions with the adjoining parts, with ulceration in the duodenum, there were discharged from the bowels, with the usual matters, a quantity of material like melted grease or tallow, and which was ascertained, by chemical examination, to be either adipocire or stearine. Dr Bright has been led, from various facts, to connect this symptom with disease, probably malignant, of that part of the pancreas which is near to the duodenum, and ulceration of the duodenum itself.* There is no doubt that the suspension of the pancreatic secretion must exert great influence on the process of duodenal digestion ; but it has not been proved by subsequent cases that this oily or fatty dis- charge never takes place without disease of the pancreas.f In other cases the pancreas was merely indurated. § 5. Hypertrophy.—Enlargement of the pancreas as an effect either of chronic inflammation or of over-nutrition, is often associated with induration ; but may take place with a natural state of the con- sistence of the gland. When the gland does become enlarged in this manner, it is almost superfluous to say that the lesion causes more or less of a firm, solid, tumid mass in the epigastric region. The bulk which the hypertrophied gland attains varies in different cir- cumstances, chiefly according to the duration of the disorder. Riolan mentions a case in which it was as large as the liver, (Rio- lani Anthropographia); in a person mentioned by Tissot, its size was three times the natural size, (De Mehena et Morbo Nigro); and in a woman seen by Storck, it is said to have been so large as to weigh thirteen pounds. In the case of a woman of forty years, detailed by Rahn, the gland measured nine inches long and seven broad, and weighed a little above four pounds, and its internal structure was like lard. Westenberg describes a case in which the * Cases and. Observations connected with Disease of the Pancreas and Duodenum. By Richard Bright, M. D., &c. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xviii. p. L London, 1833. -|- Case of Jaundice with Discharge of Fatty Matter from the Bowels, &c. By j. A. Lloyd, Esq. Ibid. p. 57. On the Discharge of Fatty Matters from the Alimentary Canal and Urinary 1 as- sages. By John Elliotson, M. D., &c. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xviii. p. (57. London, 1833.