BONE. 485 When this process once commences, it proceeds much as in healthy bone. In one respect, however, its completion is peculiar. Instead of the compact matter of the bone being equally distributed on each side of the medullary canal, as in sound bones, it is more abundant at the internal than the external side of the incurvated bone. Thus if the femur, as generally happens, is incurvated outwards, the greatest deposition of compact bone is at the internal wall. I his deposition may be so considerable in bones which are much bent, as to obliterate entirely the medullary canal.* The restored ra- chitic bone is said to contain more earthy matter than healthy bone. 6. Mollifies Ossium ;—Malakosteon ;—Osteo-mcilacia;—Osteo- sarcosis.—To the ancients this peculiar state of the osseous system appears to have been as little known as rickets. Omitting the un- certain traces of its existence, which are found ins the writings of Ebn-Sina, and several of his European commentators, the first dis- tinct record of the malady was given in 1665 by Bauda, who, in 1650, observed for ten years the progress of the disease in the case of a citizen of Sedan ;f and in 1688 by Gabriel, who found all the long bones of a lady soft, flexible, and converted into a reddish flesh-like substance, void of fibres.:}: Still more distinct cases were published by Saviard in 1691 ,§ and by Courtial and Lambert in 1700.|] About the same time Valsalva met with an instance, which, however, was published only in 1760 by Morgagni.^" Previous to this, however, had been published a case by Mr S. Be- van in 1742 ;** that of the woman Supiot, the details of whose his- tory were given in France by M. Morand, and in England by Mr Bromfield ;ff the case of Mary Hayes by Pringle and Gooch ' Observations on the condition of the Bones in Rickets, &c. By Edward Stanley, Esq. &c. Med. Chirurg. Tr. Vol. VII. p. 404. + Traite des Maladies des Os. Par M. Du Verney. Paris, 1751. Tome I. Pre- face v. p. 136. X Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. 3, An. 2, Obs. 3. This is the case noticed by Gagliardi the following year, 1639, which Scarpa also mentions as the first. The Professor of Pavia seems not to be aware that the case did not belong originally to Gagliardi but to Ga- briel. The earliest case, however, appears to have been that of Peter Siga of Sedan. § Nouveau Recueil, &c. Obs. 62, p. 274. 1702. II Histoire de l’Acad. R. des Sciences, 1700, Obs. 2. et Relation de la Maladie dc Bemarde d Armagnac, &c. 1 his young woman, a native of Thoulouse, died in the Hospital of St Jacques dc la Grave on the 19th November 1699. T Epist. lviii. 4. ** Phil. Tr. Vol. xlii. p. 488. t+ Histoire de la Maladie Singuliere, Ac. Par M. Morand Fils, 1752. Mem. de 1 Acad 1753. The particulars of this case are published also in the Philos. Transact, tor G.,3-1754, Vol. xlviii. where she is called Quoriot,and in Bromfield’s Chirurgical Observations and Cases, Vol. ii. ++ Phil. Tr. 1753, Vol. xlviii. p, 297.