GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 606 The bronchial tubes in this state are filled with thick opaque pu- riform or purulent matter, on the removal of which the membrane is seen to be reddened, softened, and thickened. In some instances the dilatation, though sufficiently distinct, does not proceed to the extreme degree already noticed. The bronchial tubes of the middle and lower lobes are merely rendered cylindri- cal like goose-quills, and filled with a sort of viscid albuminous puriform matter. The lung is also solidified, and, losing its elas- ticity, does not crepitate; and, when divided, puriform matter is- sues copiously from the cut bronchial tubes. This form of dilatation I have seen only in cases of aneurismal tumours of the aorta and innominata. It appears to be caused prin- cipally by the compression exerted on the superior bronchial tubes by the aneurismal swelling. In the cases in which I have observ- ed the lesion, the aneurismal tumour invariably compressed much the bronchial tubes of the upper lobe, near tbe mediastinum, so as to flatten them and contract their area, and prevent the free discharge of the matter secreted by their mucous membrane. The matter retained appeared to be one of the causes of the great dilatation produced in the small tubes of the middle and lower lobes. At the same time it must be observed, that this same compression causes general inflammation of all the bronchial tubes on which it is exerted, and even inflammation of the pulmonic tissue with the usual morbid products. In one case the tumour was as large as a good sized pippin, two inches and a-half in diameter, and compressed the right bronchus and its divisions and the mesial or internal margin of the lung. In another case the tumour was about the same size, though more ovoidal, and it equally compressed the right bronchus and its branches. That this dilatation of the bronchial tubes proceeds from the cause now specified, must be inferred, I think, from the fact, that in the cases in which it is observed, it is generally in proportion to the size, situation, and compressing powers of the aneurismal tu- mour, and that the lesion is confined to the bronchial tubes of the right lung, not affecting those of the left lung at all. 1 have no doubt, nevertheless, that were the tumour to be situate in that part and side of the aorta in which it could compress the left lung, the same state of the bronchial tubes of that organ would be produced.