1022 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. comes solid, filling up and obstructing the terminations of the tubes. As the matters effused become solid, they naturally assume the rounded or oblong-rounded form of the pulmonic vesicles ; and in this state, as they are small, firm, rounded bodies, harder than the neighbouring parts, and giving them a knotty appearance, they are tubercles (tubercula), or little tuberosities. That this is one and perhaps the most usual mode in which tubercles are formed, must be regarded as established by the accu- rate and beautiful delineations of Dr Carsewell, who has repre- sented the tubercular matter, as he terms it, when deposited on the free surface of the bronchial mucous membrane, at the extre- mities of the bronchial tubes. Andral manifestly takes the same view of one of the modes in which pulmonary tubercles may be formed. Frederic Peter Ludovic Cerutti, who published in 1839 a short but learned dissertation on the subject, states, that after repeated observations, he had not been able to satisfy himself of the facts adduced by Schroeder ; but allows it to be proved that the cells of the lung in those parts becoming occupied by tubercular matter, and which differ from healthy cells, in presenting a different colour, contain no air, because not only individual portions of lung sink in water, but also a whole lobe, which still fresh, on being immersed in water, sunk more than one-half, immediately after being inflated by air, rose to the surface. From this fact, he is convinced that tubercles in their origin consist of a fluid exudation, which moistens the walls of the pulmonic cells, which, he argues, are mutually compressed by the increased weight caused by this humidity, to such a degree only, that though the inspired air is unable to enter them, they may nevertheless be expanded by artificial inflation.* In the first commencement of this distemper, the colour of the affected portion of the lung only is changed; and as yet the secreted matter is probably soft and semifluid, or at least not very firm. But after some time, when the effused matter has acquired consis- tence, and become a little firm, the part is felt between the fingers as if it contained several hard knots. These are granular or graniform bodies within the air cells, filling, distending, and preventing them 41 Collectanea quaedam de Phthisi Pulmonum tuberculosa scripsit et in Universi- tatc Lipsiae in die xviii. Junii A. C. 183.0, publice defendet, Dr Frid. Petrus Ludovi- cus Cerutti, Pathologies et Therapiae Specialis, P. P. 0. Des. Lipsiae, 1830. 4to, p. ‘22.