1 90 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. This difficulty, however, need not prevent us from observing, that this is the proper place for noticing those morbid changes, which are referred to the process of exhalation. Section II. The exhalations, properly so called, may be morbidly augment- ed or diminished, or quite changed. 1. The best examples of morbid increase of exhalation is con- ceived to be found in those of the serous membranes, giving rise to the disease termed dropsy, {Hydrops.') It is most frequent in the peritoneum and in the general cellular membrane; less so in the pleura and pericardium, and in the arachnoid membrane or its divisions. In a local form it is very frequent in the vaginal coat of the testicle. Recent observations on this morbid change, and on the state of the system when under its influence^ lead to the con- clusion, that it is rarely a primary process, but is generally to be considered as the effect of another,—as the symptom of a peculiar condition of the system of capillary arteries going to the tissue which is the immediate seat of exhalation. The conditions of the capillary system in which exhalation is preternaturally augmented are referable to two general heads. The first of these is the state of distension which takes place during inflammation, fever, &c. The second is the distension wffiich re- sults from any mechanical impediment to the free motion of the blood in a venous trunk or trunks, or in the arteries. a. That the distended or overloaded state of the capillaries which occurs during inflammation may cause a great and disproportionate increase in the fluid exhaled, is established by the phenomena of inflammation of the filamentous tissue, and especially of the serous membranes. In the former, oedema and anasarca are results by no means unfrequent. In the latter, one of the first effects of inflam- mation, under certain circumstances, is effusion of fluid more or less copious, and containing various proportions of coagulable mat- ter. If the proportion of the latter be great, its coagulation forms organizable lymph, which is the medium of adhesion, while the se- rous part disappears, apparently by absorption. If it be small, its coagulation gives rise to mere loose flakes, which, with the con- stant increase of the quantity of fluid effused, are unable to main- tain their attachment to any part of the membrane ; while the thin