201 SYSTEM OF EXHALANTS. Cooper.* It must not be forgotten, however, that it is to this va- riety only of encysted tumour, that this mode of explanation is ap- plicable. Meliceris is in short the only example of the folliculated tumour. Meliceris may occur in any part of the person where sebaceous follicles exist. When on the scalp, they are distinguished among the older surgeons by peculiar epithets (talpa et testudo;) and natta when on the face. In such situations they often contain hair. Those which Severinus mentions at the wrist appear to have been ganglia; a mistake which enables us to understand why he doubted whether the meliceris was an encysted tumour. i. Atheroma. A wen or cyst, indolent, uniform on the surface, firmer than the meliceris, of the same colour with the skin, and containing granular semifluid matter like boiled meat or saw-dust. It is always confined to the cellular tissue. The mechanism of its formation is unknown, unless that proposed by Monteggia be ad- mitted. According to this pathologist, the tumour may originate in slight adhesive inflammation of any definite portion of cellular tissue, in consequence of which one cell, being obstructed and pre- vented from communicating with others, is progressively distended by deposition of matter, which, pressing on the surrounding tissue, gradually condenses it into a membrane as it extends. To this idea objections have been already stated from Bichat; and it must be admitted that facts are still wanting to explain this otherwise than by saying, that the cyst is formed, and secretes its proper contents. £. Steatoma. A wen or cyst, containing adipose matter like lard, or fat void of its natural yellow colour, and become white, firm, and granular like suet, (Boyer,) with more or less albumen, ap- proaching to the nature of adipocire. In the first case it is soft, compressible, and generally small, and is not unfrequent in the eyelids and on the scalp. In the second case it is more common on other parts of the body; and the size which it then attains is enormous. In all surgical works almost instances are given of the extraordinary size of steatomatous tumours.t In some instances * Surgical Essays, by Astlcy Cooper, F. R. S., and Benjamin Travers, F. R. S. Part II. London, 1819. Essay iii. On Encysted Tumours, p. 220. t Vide Joannes Philip. Ingrassias de Tumoribus. Severini, de Abscessum Natura Recondita, Lib. iii. Cap. xxii. Gulielmi Fabricii Hildani, Opera omnia. Francof. 1646. Gabrielis Fallopii. Op. Lib. de Tumoribus, p. n. c. 24. Fabricii ab Aquapen- dente, Lib. i. Ambrose Pare, Book vi. c. xix. one of twenty-six pounds. J. Langius ;