STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—THE KIDNEY. 785 like vegetation results, so as to fill the intervals between the gyri: and the leaf-like shape of the lobules is gradually obscured. The kidneys now are parted into several distinct masses united bv the ureter. At length all the uriniferous ducts send out near their ends se- veral lateral knots, from which arise short branches scarcely smaller than the trunk, and terminate in short ends. This causes the pin- natifid shape in the apex of each uriniferous duct. These ducts, pinnatifid at end, are quite separate from each other, and, though arranged in regular order, have no mutual communication. About the close of foetal life, the uriniferous ducts, at first white, are now everywhere filled with a secretion which from being tawny becomes bright white, which fills the canals almost to their ends, and is best seen in the first days after hatching; and in the youno- of large birds shows beautifully the structure of the uriniferous ducts on the surface of the gyri and lobules. The kidneys of the adult, bird are not only divided into several masses, but these present a surface composed of innumerable minute lobules. Ihese lobules arise from continuous gyri variously ar- ranged ; the margins of these gyri only project, wdience the multi- form surface, viewed through the microscope, seems to imitate nearly the gyri of the convolutions of the brain. ‘ The kidneys of the bird, after being hatched, require no injection to demonstrate the disposition of the uriniferous ducts Beino- na turally filled with white solid urine (urate of ammonia), they°may be observed in large birds, especially ravens, by the naked eye in the first, second, third, and fourth day after hatching. All the uriniferous ducts, to their most remote pinnatifid extremities are swelled with whitish-yellow matter, their proper secretion, consist- ing of uric acid. It IS difficult to convey a distinct and correct idea of the arrange- ment now described without figures. But it may appear to be compared to that produced by a long frill or ruffle of muslin or cambric which ,s doubled up and folded on itself six, eight, or ten times, with the frilled edges allowed to project, and all within an oval or elliptical space of half an inch or less By micrometrical measurement, the terminations of the urinife. of one Paris inch in ri %,M ' T , 8er than the (li™oter of the blood- vessels. Supposing the diameter of the smallest blood-vessels to 3 D