142 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. flammatory redness is livid when the inflammation is intense, and the statical points are dispersed and diffused. The first change which the blood undergoes in an inflamed part is, that it is not converted into venous blood. Next to this the coagulability is increased, so that the globules coalescing form minute clots. Then the globules forming these clots are decom- posed; for they are surrounded by serous liquid which exudes from them. The colour of the blood is in like manner altered. When mu- riate of soda is used, it gives the blood a purple tint; the use of alcohol imparts a clear colour; that of corrosive sublimate a dull brown colour. Kaltenbrunner further maintains, that often in the course of the phenomena of inflammation has he observed the formation of new vessels or canals in an inflamed organ. The globules of blood are observed to spring all at once from some capillary canal, to fall into the surrounding parenchyma, pave a path for themselves, and by this reach another canal.* This seems to confirm the idea of Doellinger and Wedemeyer, already mentioned, (p. 134.) These form the principal phenomena of inflammation in its in- creasing and to its established periods. After that the phenomena observed relate to an advanced stage, which has been usually con- sidered as that of effects. To these, therefore, I shall revert subse- quently. Upon the whole, two facts may be considered to be established regarding the state of the capillary vessels of an inflamed part. The first is, that these vessels are unnaturally and unusually distended, and really contain more blood than in the state of health. This is proved not only by incisions into inflamed parts, but by dissections of every part and organ of the body. The se- cond is, that the blood moves more slowly in these vessels than in the healthy state, and even after some time may remain entirely motionless. This is also established by observing the effects of in- flammation in the human body, but especially by the phenomena of inflammation excited artificially in the bodies of the lower animals. It is still a point to be ascertained, whether these two conditions * Experimenta circa statum sanguinis et vasorum in Inflamraatione. Auctore Doc- tore Georgio Kaltenbrunner Monachii, 1826. Recherclies Experimentales sur lTnflammation, par M. G. Kaltenbrunner, Docteur en Medecine. Breschet Repertoire General d’Anatomie, et de Physiologic Patholo- giques, &c. Tome ivtrieme, p. 201. Paris, 1827.