GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 738 taud, and Baillie. To this head, perhaps, we may refer a variety of tyromatous tumour of the pleura observed by Mr Howship. It con- sisted in a great number of bulbous processes variable in shape and size, but, apparently from the description, oblong, spheroidal, and attached by narrow stalks or peduncles. The substance of these bodies, which was semitransparent and very firm, of a dull-yellow colour, partly fluid and partly solid, is ascribed by Mr Howship to effusion of lymph. The opacity and increase of density resulting from immersion in alcohol showed that they contained albuminous matter.* In the membranes of the brain they seem to be also not uncom- mon, though their origin from the arachnoid is not quite established. Tubercles or tyromatous depositions in the tubercular form are often found in the pia mater, and especially its cerebral prolonga- tions. They occur not only in the exterior division of the mem- brane, but in that which penetrates the ventricles; and from this circumstance it often happens that tyromatous bodies, which are found in the cerebral substance, have originated in the membranes. Thus of the figures given by Baillie in the 7th pi. of his 10th fasci- culus, two tubercular bodies are found actually attached to the cho- roid plexus; one found in the lower part of the fourth ventricle; and that represented by Dr Hooper in the same situation (12th pi.) appears to have had the same origin ; and those said to be found in the brain were very probably originally formed at the filamentous surface of the pia mater, between which and the bodies, in most in- stances, vascular connections are distinct and immediate. ยง 2. The cenchroid tubercles are very frequent in serous tissue. In the pleura they were seen by Wrisberg, Baillie, Bayle, Laennec, and Andral; in the peritonaeum by Scoutetten. These miliary or cartilaginous tubercles are not unfrequently found to occupy all the serous membranes at once, more especi- ally in the bodies of the lower animals. Thus I have often seen them in the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum in the sheep; and in a specimen of the Paca dissected by my friend Dr Grant, every serous membrane was thickly set with them. They occui chiefly in men and animals long excluded from air and exercise. In the early stage they do not exercise much influence on the state of these membranes. But at a more advanced period they cause inordinate exhalation, opacity, dulness, and other marks of morbid circulation of the tissue. * Practical Observations on Surgery and Morbid Anatomy, p. 204.