499 SKIN. of the true skin itself It was, however, the opinion of Cruikshank, that these membranes are not created, but only demonstrated or rendered distinct by eruptive diseases in consequence of the large quantity of blood impelled into the skin. Bichat denies the existence of a mucous coating or varnish (cor- pus mucosum,) such as Malpighi describes it, and regards the vas- cular surface of the coriou as the only mucous net. According to Chaussier, the skin consists of two parts only, the derma (fo^a) cutis vera or corion, and the epidermis, cuticle, or scarf-skin ; the first embracing the organic elements of this tissue ; the second being an inorganic substance prepared by the organic, and deposited on its surface. This opinion is adopted by Gordon, according to whom the skin consists of two substances placed above each other like layers or plates {laminae,') the inner of which is the true skin, the outer the cuticle or scarf-skin. Beclard, on the con- trary, thinks that a peculiar matter, which occasions the colour by which the several races are distinguished, is found between the outer surface of the corion and the cuticle; and that no fair race is destitute of it except the albino, the peculiar appearance of whom he ascribes to the absence of the mucous net of the skin. According to M. Gaultier, the mucous body of the negro skin consists of four parts; Is#, a series of minute vascular bundles, to which M. Gaultier applies the name of gemmulce sanguinece, and which are really the termination of vessels ramified on the papillae; 2d, the deep whitish layer, consisting of white vessels, and indicat- ed in an oblique section of the negro skin, by a white line between the surface of the corion and a darker undulating line; 3d, the coloured layer, named by M. Gaultier gemmulce—the true colour- ing matter of the skin,—indicated by the undulating line already noticed ; 4th, the superficial white layer, consisting of serous ves- sels as the first, indicated by a white line between the dark undu- lating line and the cuticle. The vascular eminences, {gemmulce sanguinece) of M. Gaultier, are the termination of the cutaneous papillae; and this induces M. Dutrochet to give the following view of the constituent parts of the cutaneous tissue, lrf, the derma, or corion, the true skin of the ancient anatomists; 2d, the papillae, or minute elevations of this membrane; 3d, the epidermal membrane of the papillae, which is the deep whitish layer of M. Gaultier ; 4 th, a coloured layer, the proper colouring matter of the skin; 5th, a horny layer, which