SEROUS MEMBRANE. oyo pia mater and arachnoid is unequivocally demonstrated by the phe- nomena of serous infiltration. The distribution and configuration of the pia mater is peculiar; and correct knowledge of these is requisite in order to understand its pathological relations. The pia mater, or proper membrane of the brain, consists of two parts, an outer, covering the convoluted surface of the brain, and an inner or central, entering the cavities formed by the inner, central, or figurate surface, and spread ovei this surface in the form of what has been termed the vascular or choroid web ; (plexus choroides ; tela choroidea.) The arrangement of the first or exterior division of the cerebral membrane is well known. Its flocculent-vascular, or tomentose surface, is applied closely and immediately to every part of the convoluted surface, both eminences and depressions (gyri et sulci); to every part ol the foliated sui face of the cerebellum in like manner ; and finally, though in a more delicate form, to the surface of the spinal chord, transmitting those vessels which enter and issue from the substance of each part. The continuity of the pia mater or exterior division of the proper cerebral membrane, with the choroid plexus or interior division, may be demonstrated iq the following manner. First, the pia ma- ter may be traced behind and below the posterior extremity of the mesolobe or middle band, (<rw/xa nXkoufoi, corpus callosum, der bal- ken,) where it is continuous with the transverse web called velum interpositum, and which may be regarded in this order of examina- tion as the first part of the central division. Secondly, from this point, the situation of the velum interpositum, it may be traced for- wards on both sides of the mesial plane into the lateral ventricles, spread over the surface of the optic thalamus and striated eminence in the form of the vascular web called choroid plexus, the right half of which communicates with the left by means of a similar slip of vascular membrane lying beneath the vault (fornix), and behind the anterior pillars of that body at the spot termed Foramen Mon- roianurn. Thirdly, it may be traced over the geniculate bodies or posterior eminences of each thalamus into the posterior-inferior cor- nu, or sinuosity of the lateral ventricle, where it covers the yreat hippocampus. Fourthly, it may be traced at the angle between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata, or what is named the bottom of the fourth ventricle, where it forms a very minute choroid plexus seldom noticed by anatomists, but not less distinct, and which may be traced up the fourth ventricle to be connected with the velum