GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 264 deep ones are beneath the level of the cerebral limb, Reil regards them as connected neither with this nor with the beam or mesolobe. He represents, nevertheless, the radiation of the outer wall as too much detached from the unciform band. Frequent examination of this part leads me to represent the outer wall and the unciform band as parts of the same system of fibres. The unciform hand is situate not on the same vertical plane with the rest of the outer wall, which not only radiates in every direction forward, upward, and backward, but swells out laterally, or towards the convoluted region of the hemispheres. The result of this arrangement is, that the section which shows the unciform band most distinctly shows only the peripheral or marginal fibres of the outer wall. A sec- tion more external or lateral, however, shows the radiating fibres of the part between the centre, (the unciform process,) and the cir- cumference ; and in order to see them distinctly all at once, and to have a correct conception of their assembled disposition, it is re- quisite to pare off from its outer surface the exterior white matter, or to excavate externally, so as to form a spherical segment. The outer wall of the capsule is, in short, a spherical shell, con- sisting of fibres radiating from a point above the fossa Sylvii. So far as I have been able to observe, it has no connection with the limbs of the brain. The inner wall of the capsule is composed, on the contrary, of the stem of the limb, and the fore-part of the staffwreath, which sends fibres under the round part of the inner portion of the nu- cleus. Joining the outer wall above by means of an arched mar- gin, and at acute angles, it gives the capsule the shape of an in- verted boat. In this capsule is lodged the outer part of the large striated nu- cleus of the brain; the inner, usually named corpus striatum, being covered only by epithelion within the ventricle. Both are parts of one organ which should not be separated. Of the cerebellum, the internal arrangement is nearly the fol- lowing. The restiform processes I have already mentioned as connected partly with the protuberance, partly with the four eminences, (cor- pora quadrigemina), situate on its upper surface. The circular transverse fibres of the protuberance, which enclose the longitudinal ones produced in a lateral-posterior direction, plunge into the ce- rebcllic hemispheres in the form of thick, strong, white chords.