ERECTILE TISSUE. 183 easiness. This person lived about two years afterwards. He was again attacked with ague, (edema of the feet, and died. * The external opening is doubtless the most favourable. That into the stomach or colon, when it is followed by purulent vomiting or diarrhoea, is next favourable. That through the diaphragm into the pleura or lungs is much less favourable, and must be considered as peculiarly dangerous. And when the outlet is made within the peritoneum, or without that membrane, it is necessarily and very speedily fatal. It is necessary to mention, nevertheless, that Grottanelli gives two cases, (IX. § 53, § 56,) in which he states that, notwithstand- ing this kind of outlet within the peritoneum, recovery took place. In the first, in consequence of a kick on the abdomen, an abscess of the spleen had burst into its cavity ; and though the immediate effects bore all the characters of speedily approaching death, yet, after twenty hours, the patient began to rally, and after voiding a large quantity of urine-like fasces for the space of three weeks, finally recovered, and was seen perfectly well seven years after. In the second, the person received a kick from a horse in the re- gion of the organ ; yet, after diarrhoea and bloody hypostatic urine lasting for many days, he eventually recovered. 4. Simple or indolent enlargement from vascular distension. — Almost all authors have noticed enlargement of the spleen, super- vening either spontaneously or after ague and other bad fevers. Morgagni relates an instance in which the spleen of a slender wo- man of twenty-eight, who had undergone chronic fever, occupied the whole of the left side of the belly, and weighed eight pounds and a-half, without change of its interior structure, but apparent dilatation of the vessels and development of its lymphatics; and Pemberton mentions one weighing three pounds two ounces, yet with perfectly natural structure. Mr Elliot describes one weighing eleven pounds thirteen ounces, with natural structure,f and Bree states it to vary from one to twenty or thirty pounds after ague and chronic diseases of the viscera. The natural weight of the spleen is from nine to fourteen ounces. .Baillie remarks, that this simple enlargement with structure perfectly healthy, happens to the spleen more commonly than to any other organ, and regards it, rather as a monstrous growth than as actual disease. It appears to me that this is correct only to a certain extent; and that simple * Ad Acuta; et Chronica; Splcnitidis, &c. Art. V. Hist. XI., quoted by Raikem, but carelessly. t Med. Com. Vol. XVII. p. 497. Stoll, Ratio Med. i. 1G11, 251.