897 NATURE OF KIRRH0S1S. stance alone is sufficient to show that the glandular or granular portion of the liver is the part affected by kirrhosis. . It must not be forgotten therefore, that though the hypertrophy affects the whole of the granular or orange-matter of the liver, it affects it unequally; some being more, others less affected. As to the exact change induced in these bodies, it is most pro- bable that the bile-tubes are first contracted, and eventually oblite- rated by adhesive inflammation ; for little genuine bile ever reaches the hepatic ducts, in the established form of the disease; and in all the largest tubercles, it is reasonable to think that the ducts are either much contracted or completely closed. The red or vascular portion of the gland is, at the same time, atrophied; and its waste or diminution appears in some instances to proceed to a very great extreme. Baillie observed that the gra- nulated liver contains little blood; a fact which is confirmed by daily observation. The granulated liver cannot be injected to any extent. The small vessels are obliterated evidently by the pressure of the granulated bodies on them. It is, therefore, not hypertrophy of one set of granules, and atrophy of another, as imagined by Cruveilhier, that is the essential circumstance in kirrhosis, but hypertrophy of the whole of the orange-coloured tissue, and atrophy of the vascular portion. 'Ihe reason why it has appeared to many that the granular part could not be hypertrophied, when the whole liver was actually smaller, is the circumstance, that they overlook the anatomical fact, that, in the sound state, the granular portion of the liver makes but a small proportion of the gland, while the vascular portion forms the most considerable; whereas, when hypertrophied as in kirrhosis, the granular portion constitutes almost the whole. Along with these changes, the interlobular, cellular, or filamen- tous tissue is hardened, apparently by inflammatory adhesion. This has been assumed to be the cause of the other changes; but it is manifestly merely a concomitant effect. It is always most remark- able in the concave portion of the liver, and much less so in the convex. Conversely the granular degeneration is usually most complete and furthest advanced at the convex surface of the liver, and &mt so in the neighbourhood of the capsule of Glisson and the sinus. The remote causes of kirrhosis are not very accurately known ; and all the information which has been given on this subject is ra- ther conjectural than positive. During the years 1817 and 1818, 3 T.