GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 122 parts. In young animals, also, the difference between the size of the veins and their corresponding arteries is so trifling as to be scarcely discernible. This would show that something is to be as- cribed to the incessant operation of a dilating force increasing uni- formly with the duration of life. Upon the whole, it is chiefly on the ground of their larger nu- merical arrangement that the veins collectively can be said to be more capacious than the arteries. On this subject some observa- tions of Bichat are entitled to attention.* 3. The veins in general accompany the arteries. The venous trunk placed contiguous to the arterial in the same sheath is di- vided into branches at the same points, and is distributed into the substance of organs much in the same manner. From this ar- rangement, however, certain deviations are observed in particular regions. Thus, in the brain, neither the internal carotid, nor the basilar artery, nor their large branches, are accompanied with veins. 3 [The small branches only have corresponding veins, which, as they unite to form large ones, pour their blood into the venous canals termed sinuses, the arrangement of which is unlike any other part of the venous system. In the chest also a different dis- position of the venous from the arterial tubes is observed. The vena cava, though conveying the blood to the pulmonic division of the heart, as the aorta conveys it from it, do not, however, corre- spond with the latter either in situation or in dependent branches. The azygos and the demiazygos veins in like manner, which re- ceive the intercostal veins, have no concomitant artery, but open into the superior cava, to which it may be viewed as an appendage. Lastly, The portal vein, which is formed of the united trunks of the splenic, superior mesenteric and inferior mesenteric veins, cor- responds to no individual arterial trunk, and forms of itself a pe- culiar arrangement in the venous system. Some anatomists have dwelt much on the more superficial and less sheltered situation of the veins than of the arteries. Upon this point no very positive inferences can be established. In the extremities the former are in general most superficial; but in the interior of the body, especially in the chest, the venous trunks are quite as deep-seated as the arterial. The course of the venous canals is in general more rectilineal and less tortuous than that of the arteries. In no part of the ve- * Anatomic Generale, Tome I. p. 370.