171 ERECTILE TISSUE. researches have shown it to he completely erroneous. Cuvier and Ribes in France, Mascagni, Paul Farnese, Moreschi in Ital), and Tiedemann in Germany, have shown that there are no cells or spongiform structure in . the erectile tissue of the cavernous body. The first correct view of the structure of parts of this description in the human subject was given by Mascagni in his account of the arterial and venous communications in the Spongy Body of the Urethra. In 1787 he announced in his work on the Lymphatics, that the parts called cavernous bodies, both in the penis and in the clitoris, were simply fasciculi, or accumulations of arterial and ve- nous vessels without interruption of canal; but that between the arteries and veins of the spongy bodies a dilated cavity or minute cell was interposed. In 1795 repeated minute injections led him to doubt the existence of this sort of cell; and about the close of 1805 he publicly demonstrated the fact, that many veins of consi- derable calibre collected in the manner of a plexus, with corre- sponding arteries, but small and less numerous, really form the outer and inner membranes of the urethra, the whole of the plans penis, and the whole substance of the spongy body. In each of these parts, and also in the spongy structure inclosing the orifice of the vagina, he ascertained by repeated injections that there are no cells, as was imagined, and that the arteries, reflected, as it were, give origin to numerous veins,* which, forming an intimate plexiform net-work, constitute the whole glans, and the entire vascu- lar body which surrounds the urethra and the entrance of the vagina. In the cavernous bodies of the penis and clitoris he had not suf- ficient facts to ascertain the existence of the same structure, as he had never succeeded in injecting these parts so completely as the plans and the spongy part of the urethra. Eventually, however, he succeeded, especially in children, in injecting fully these cavernous bodies of the penis and clitoris. He found in their interior nothing but fasciculi of veins, with corresponding arteries, though rather smaller. He inferred, therefore, that these vessels, collected and ramified in various directions, constitute a vascular texture capable of expand- ing and shrinking, according to the quantity of blood conveyed to it.f * “ Le arterie vi si ritorcono, et danno origine alle vene, e queste formano in scg’.iito alcuni plessi, i quali accumulati in varia maniera, instituiscono tutto il glande, e tutta quel la massa vnscolarc, chc trovasi intorno al’ canale dell’ uretra, e all’ ingresso della vagina.” Prodromo della Grande Anotomia di Paolo Mascagni. Folio, Firenze, 1819. Capitolo, II. p. 61. f Prodromo del Paolo Mascagni, loco citato, p. 61.