216 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. closed in a thin membrane like a capsule. The capsule is a thin pellucid colourless substance, which is resolved by maceration into fine whitish fibres. It is very vascular; and Mascagni appears to have detected absorbents in it. It is connected to the proper sub- stance by fine filamentous or cellular tissue. The capsule is con- sidered by Beclard as a fibro-cellular membrane. The proper sub- stance of lymphatic glands consists of a homogeneous pulp, in which injections have shown numerous ramifications of minute ves- sels. As these vessels are injected from the lymphatics which are seen to enter the body of the gland, they are believed to be conti- nuous with them, and to be lymphatics arranged in a peculiar man- ner. These vessels are of two kinds, one entering the gland called vasa afferentia or inferential entrant lymphatics; the other quitting is called vasa efferentia, egredient lymphatics. This distinction is founded on the direction of the valves. In the vasa inferentia the free margins of the valves are turned toward the gland; in the vasa efferentia they are turned from it. The number of entrant lymphatics varies from one to thirty, and, what is more remarkable, almost never corresponds with that of the egredient lymphatics, which are in general much fewer. Cruik- shank says he has injected fourteen entrant lymphatics to one gland, to which only one egredient vessel corresponded. When the en- trant lymphatic reaches the gland it splits into many radiated branches, which immediately sink into its substance. The egredi- ent lymphatics are generally larger than the entrants. The arrangement of these vessels in the interior of the glands is best described by Mascagni, whose observations are confirmed by Gordon. To see this well, it is requisite to inject the entrant lym- phatics of two glands in two different modes; one with mercury, the other with wax, glue, or gypsum. After a successful mercu- rial injection, the entrants are seen, before sinking in the gland, to divide into two orders of branches. One of them, which belongs chiefly to the surface or circumference of the gland, consists of large vessels, bent, convoluted, and interwoven in every direction, communicating with each other, and swelling out into dilated cells at certain parts, and of smaller vessels, which form a minute net- work on the surface, and which seem to terminate in the cells or distended parts of the larger vessels. From these distended parts or cells, again, arise many minute vessels, which, after winding about on the surface of the gland, unite gradually, and form the egredient vessels of the gland.