SKIN". or cuticular surface of the corion, (cutis vera, derma,) and generally spreading along 505 050 r//i the sacs and bulbs of the hairs. If these circumstances be adopted as the basis of general division, subordinate characters may be ^derived from the mode in which the inflammatory process advances, and from the effects which it produces, in the following order. § 1 .Diffuse or spreading inflammation.—I. Cutaneous inflammations seated in the outer it. Measles, ' ' Rubeola. Morbillose eruption, Morbilli. Rash fever, scarlet fever, Scarlatina. Nettle-rash, Urticaria. Rose-rash, Roseola. Common rash, Erythema. 2. Effusive inflammation.—II. Cutaneous inflammation seated in the outer surface of the corion, producing a fluid which elevates and detaches the cuticle. Rose, St Anthony’s fire, Erysipelas. Bleb fever, bullose fever, Pemphigus, febris bullosa. Simple blebs, Pompholyx. 3. Punctuate papular inflammation.—III. Cutaneous inflammations commencing in circumscribed or definite points of the corion, producing minute eminences. Gum, gown, red gum, tooth gum, Strophulus. Sun-rash, prickly heat, Lichen. Itchy rash, Prurigo. § 4. Punctuate desquamating inflammation.—IV. Cutaneous inflammations of the outer surface of the corion, more or less circumscribed, affecting its secreting power, and producing exfoliation of the cuticle. Scaly leprosy, Lepra. Scaly tetter, Psoriasis. Dandriff, Pityriasis. Fish-skin disease, Ichthyosis. § 5. Punctuate vesicular inflammat ion.—V. Cutaneous inflammations originally affecting the outer surface of the corion, circumscribed, definite, or punctuate, producing ef- fusion of fluid first pellucid, afterwards slightly opaque, with elevation of cuticle with or without further affection of the corial tissue. Miliary rash, Miliaria. Shingles, vesicular ringworm, or fret, Herpes. Heat spots, or red-fret, Eczema. Limpet shell vesicle and scab, Rupia. Cow-pox vesicle, Vaccinia. Chicken-pox, Varicella. § 6. PunctvxUcphlegmonous or pustular inflammation.— VI. Cutaneous inflammations originally affecting the outer surface and vascular layer of the corion, afterwards its substance, sometimes the sacs and bulbs of the hairs, and producing purulent mat- ter more or less distinct. 1 Small-pox, Variola. Pta8“e, Pestis. Malignant pustule, Persian fire, Anthralyon. Scabies. Moist or running tetter, Impetigo. Scall or pustular ringworm, Porrigo Great P°x> Ecthyma.