374 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. nerves of motion from the brain and cerebellum, and those of sen- sation from the membranes; and Galen distinguishes the nerves into Nsuga Aiskrina and Net^a K/rtjma, the former, soft, from the brain, the latter, hard, from the spinal marrow. This distinction was not altogether lost sight of among the anatomists and physio- gists of the eighteenth century; but it was rather maintained as a probable speculation, than elucidated and enforced as an established doctrine, pregnant with important results. It was recognized by Glisson, and taught by Boerhaave,* and received and promulgated by his pupils, Tissot and Van Eems;f hut opposed by Halier'! and Cullen. The distinction was, nevertheless, maintained by Lecat, Morin, and Pouteau, the last of whom was led from various examples of persons, who, after injuries, had lost sensation, but retained the power of movement, to espouse it with considerable energy.§ In 1784 George Procbaska, Professor of Anatomy at Vienna, published on the functions of the nerves a commentary, in which he gave, after Haller, Caldani, Whytt and Unzer, a more precise and correct view of the uses, properties, and powers of these or- gans, than had hitherto been formed. In this commentary he fully recognizes the distinction between sensorial nerves or those devoted to sensation, and motific nerves or those ministering to motion ; he shows that sensorial impressions or impressions made on the sen- sitive nerves, are reflected or transmitted in a reflex direction to the motific nerves; that the latter nerves are thereby excited to action ; that the purpose of this reflex operation is the preservation of the individual; and that the whole are under the influence of the Sen- soriurn Commune. He distinctly states, that this reflected'action is * Prffilectiones Academic® in proprias Institutiones Rei Medicae, Editse et Notis Aue- te, ab Alb. Haller. VII. Tomi. I2mo. Goettingae, 1745. + Hermanni Boerhaave, Phil, et Med. Doct., &c. Pradectiones Academic® de Mor- bis Nervorum, Quas ex Manuscriptis collectas edi curavit Jacobus Van Eems, Medi- cus Leydensis. Tome I. and II. Lugduni Batavor. 1761. “ Omnes (nervi) inser- viunt motui vel famulantur sensui; sed in illis qui cordi, puhnoni, hepati, aliisque partibus vitalibus destinati sunt, sensus non deprehenditur. Qui motui inserviunt, abeunt ad musculos, et in iis ita mollescunt, ut in verum quasi cerebrum degenerent. Ramuli, qui sensibus famulantur, in ipsis organis mollitie fere diffluunt, uti patet in expansione nervi optici, olfactorii, ubi se applicat ad os ethmoides, et acoustici in laby- rintho,” P. 261. + Elementa Physiologia:, Liber X. Sect. VIII. § xxii., Tomus Quartus, p. 389. § Memoire et Rcchcrches sur la difference a etablir entre les nerfs du sentiment et les nerfs du mouvement, a l’occasion de quelques observations sur cette espece rare de paralysie, qui prive un membre de tout sentiment, sans lui oter Pusage du mou\e- ment- Oeuvres Postumes de M. Pouteau, Doctcur en Medecinc et Chirurgien en Che de l’Hotel-dien de Lyon. Tome II. p. 480. Paris, 1789.