GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 77(5 and not all round or peripheral. It appears that the same lateral ramification, with the same arrangement of lobules, takes place in the lacrymal gland, and in the mammce. The blood-vessels do not follow these ramifications so much as the blastema, or primordial matter, to which they are nutrient canals. As the ovum or embryo grows, this growth of ramification or branching like a plant proceeds ; and as this advances in producing shoots and pedunculated vesicles, the blastema or primordial mat- ter of the lobules is consumed; the internal ramification towards the margin of the lobules, originally spacious, advances; and branches formerly dispersed in the place of the lobules are accumu- lated over each other. The vegetation of the ducts of the submaxillary gland differs a little from that of the parotid, according to Rathke, and approaches that of the pancreas. § II. THE PANCREAS. The arrangement representing this gland in fishes has already been noticed. • In the Mammalia, this organ having passed through different stages in reptiles and birds, presents the following characters.— In the foetus of the sheep of four inches, the elementary particles of the pancreas have already consumed almost their whole blastema, so that scarcely a trace of the common amorphous primordial sub- stance remains. The elementary particles are everywhere freely prominent. These consist of elongated cylindrical acini or bunchy utriculi, which are larger than the pedunculated vesicles of the sa- livary glands, and are so generally conjoined, that they constitute paniculce everywhere scattered on the surface. These cylindrical acini, or elementary utriculi, proceed alternately from the middle twig, form elsewhere pinnatifid paniculce, as in the pancreas of birds. In other respects they are all very white, equal, not pedun- culated, gently expanding in a shut end. In each set of three, four, or five paniculce, Muller observed prominent shoots; the rest, if there were more, were covered by the neighbouring paniculce. The shoots composing one single panicula are unfolded in the same place; and in this respect they manifestly differ in structure from the parotid gland. The intimate union of the paniculce Muller was unable to unravel.