GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 770 ducts, which are arranged according to their cellular projection ; and also to the primary lobules or their apices. Henle, like Muller, avoids the use of this term acini, by which he thinks Malpighi meant the closed ends of excretory ducts, and which probably were primary lobules.* The most recent authorities withhold the term for the glandular vesicnhz. Further, the solid lobules of the liver, and especially the cells of which they consist, are named acini. VTL The smallest blood-vessels pass not directly into glandular parts and ends of secreting ducts; but the blood-vessels are distri- buted to the parietes of secreting canals exactly as to any other se- creting membrane. They do not enter by open ends into the cells of these canals; but they pass between the elementary particles of the glands, and upon these terminate by delicate networks into the small veins. This passage of blood between the elongated acini of the liver from one order of blood-vessels into another, may be dis- tinctly seen in the living larvae of the triton. \ III. The system of blood-vessels, therefore, in every glandular organ is confined within certain definite limits, by means of an in- termediate reticular connection of minute vessels interposed between the arteries and veins. IX. Of the connection between lymphatic vessels with the ex- cretory ducts in some glands, which has been already noticed un- der its proper head, Muller is of opinion that it is not proved by the alleged injection ; and that it is entirely accidental. X. Every system of secreting ducts, without any continuous communication with blood-vessels, bounded and closed by certain shut ends, is to be viewed as an efflorescence or ramification of the excretory duct; because it is proved, that in the embryo it grows or sprouts, as it were, from an excretory duct, at first unbranched. XI. Tbe ramifications of the blood-vessels accompany the efflo- rescence of the secreting canals, and with peripheral reticular ves- sels wind on the elementary parts, and terminations of the secret- ing canals. As a follicle or intestinula rise from the uniform mem- brane, and send out repeatedly several utriculi and canals, so on the efflorescing canals the yascular network advances, itself rising from the uniform membrane. These facts are shown in the phe- nomena of the incubated egg. * Allgemeine Anatomic. Lehre von den Misehungs-und Fomibestandtheilen des - Mensclilichen Korpers. Von J. Henle. Leipzig, 1841. Seite 922.