504 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. l>e inferred that hair consists of an animal matter, which appears to he a modification of albumen, a colouring oil, and some saline substances.* Section II. The cutaneous texture and appendages are liable to many forms of disease. Most of them, however, may be referred to some form of the inflammatory process, or to changes in texture either original or acquired. I. Inflammation assumes in this texture a great variety of forms, which it is the province of pathological anatomy to distinguish ac- curately. This was first attempted by Cullen, whose phlegmon and erythema were intended to designate two forms of cutaneous in- flammation, according as the vessels of the internal or external sur- face are the seat of morbid action. The distinction, though judi- cious, was overlooked; and those who confided in his practical in- structions, without attending to the correctness of his pathology or the fidelity of his descriptions, transferred the seat of phlegmon from the skin, in which it was placed by Cullen, to the cellular tissue, where it has since remained. This error was abetted by J. Hunter and C. Smyth, whose distinctions of inflammation, according to the tissues in which it occurs, place rose in the skin, and phlegmon in the cellular membrane. These views were generally adopted till the appearance of Bichat, who attempted, after the example of Cullen, to distinguish cutaneous diseases according to their seat in the cutaneous tissue.f As this is obviously the most rational method, and, though not much followed by practical authors, has received the approbation of such observers as Meckel and Beclard, it is best calculated for the order to be observed in the present treatise. Cutaneous inflammation, though it eventually affect the sub- stance, which, however, is not frequently, may be conveniently dis- tinguished in the following manner. First, it may be seated in the exterior or cuticular surface of the corion; secondly, it may affect the papilla; or minute elevations of the corion; thirdly, it may affect the substance of the corion ; fourthly, it may occur at the inner or attached surface of this membrane ; fifthly, it may af- fect the sebaceous follicles ; and sixthly, it may be connected with * Annales tie Chimie, lJiOC. Tome LVIII., and Pliilosoph. Trans. 1800, Vol. XI. p, .127, ct seq. f Anatomic Generate, Tome IV. p. 721. 1