570 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. ever, more closely connected with the latter, and is often the seat of inflammation producing a yellow puriform discharge (otorrlicea), from the outer surface of the tympanal membrane, and the mem- brane lining the ear-hole. The membrane is then red, soft, villous, and highly tender. The average duration of this disease is from fifteen days to three weeks, after which the fluid discharged becomes thicker, and in colour, consistence, and odour, resembles caseous matter. The ceruminous glands are disordered during its pre- sence ; but as it recedes their secretion becomes abundant. § 4. Tympania.—Though the membrane of the tympanal cavity and the Eustachian tube presents a smooth uniform surface, moist- ened by a thin watery fluid possessing little resemblance to mucus, yet, as continuous with the naso-guttural membrane, and as similar to that of the facial sinuses, it may be placed in pathological pro- perties in this situation. Bichat indeed corrects the error of those anatomists who represent the membrane of the tympanal cavity as periosteum ; but in his anxiety to maintain its mucous he overlooks its fibrous character. Its adherent surface cannot be distinguished from the periosteum of the bones to which it adheres. When re- moved and dried it is thin, crisp, and semitransparent. During the inflammatory process it becomes red, thick, soft, and actually villous; and it secretes first serous, afterwards yellow puriform fluid, which cannot be distinguished from genuine purulent matter, though without ulceration.* In this disease an opening takes place in the membrane, which becomes fungous, or is eventually destroyed; the tympanal bones are discharged ; and not unfrequently the in- flammatory process spreading into the mastoid cells, fills these ca- vities with matter more or less viscid. In such circumstances it may affect the periosteal surface and cause caries of the bones, which are then found denuded and rough. Not unfrequently it causes inflammation of the dura mater, and cerebral membranes, and the brain itself. § 5. Thrush; Aphthae.—The mucous membrane of the mouth and throat is liable to this form of inflammation, which depends on the presence of epidermis in this region. It is then elevated into whitish or ash-coloured vesicles or blisters, sometimes round or oval, sometimes irregular. The contained fluid is separated into two parts, one albuminous, forming the rudiment of new epidermis, * “ Le cadavrc (Tun homme expose a ces ecoulemens pendant sa vie, m’a present unc epaisseur et une rougeur remarquables de la membrane du tympan, mais sans nulle trace d’erosion.” Anat. Gcnerale, Tome III. p. 430.