GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 268 extends only one-eighth or one-tenth of one inch in depth, and is then succeeded by a tinge of orange-white substance. Of the cor- rectness of this observation, I am not assured. If sections of the convoluted part be made, no difference can be observed in the re- cent brain ; and the cut surface appears to consist of homogeneous and uniform gray matter, from the outer or free margin to that which adheres distinctly to the white substance. The consistence of the convoluted cerebral substance is consi- derable ; but it is less than that of the white matter. If we trust to the observations of Father Della Torre, the gray and the white substance of the brain, cerebellum and spinal chord, consist of an accumulation of transparent globules, floating in a transparent crystalline, but somewhat viscid fluid.* These globules, he imagined, are largest in the brain, smaller in the cerebellum, and still smaller in the spinal chord. According to the observations of Prochaska, however different in colour the gray cerebral substance be from the white, no differ- ence in minute structure can be recognized by the most powerful lens. Each appears to consist of an infinite multitude of globules, connected by a peculiar, elastic band; and he observes that this cerebral globule does not float in a fluid, as Della Torre imagined, but is connected to the contiguous ones by a thin and transparent cellular web, (tela cellulosa subtilissima et pellucidissima,) which is a series of membranous partitions derived from the soft membrane and minute vessels. This last conclusion is not quite certain, and would require to be made the subject of further researches, f On the structure of these globules nothing is known with cer- tainty. They are not exactly spherical, but are said to be irregu- larly round. The observation of Della Torre, that they are largest in the convoluted brain, (cerebrum,') smaller in the laminated, (cere- bellum,) and most minute in the vertebral portion, is fanciful, and perhaps unfounded. Prochaska, however, admits that the glob ides are not all of the same size, but that it is impossible to ascribe their variable magnitude to a regular principle, unless the proximity or remoteness of the lens.j; The accuracy of these observations is confirmed in general by * Nuove Observazione Microseopiche. Napoli, 1776. Osserv. 16,17, 18, 19, Ac. f Georgii Prochaska De Structura Nervorum, &c. Vienna, 1779. Sectio 2, ca- put iv.