517 SKIN. course more rapidly than the original one, and terminates neaily at the same time with it. This constitutes the test-pock or vesicle of Mr Bryce. ( Vaccinella.) e. Of chicken-pox as a cutaneous inflammation sometimes affecting the corial substance, I have already merely spoken. Like instances of the punctuate inflammation, though it commences at the surface of the corion with sero-alhuminous secretion, it very often proceeds to suppuration, and occasionally affects the corial tissue. *1 his is seen in the lenticular and more distinctly in the conoidal chicken- pox, in which the suppurated points are marked by depressions. The cutaneous punctuate inflammation of chicken-pox may be con- sidered as the link which connects the vesicular and the pustular eruptions. The facts now adduced show that it is impossible to draw a dis- tinct line between the vesicle and the pustule, as was attempted by Willan and Bateman. Looking only at the pathological process by which they are developed and advance to maturity, it is more natural to consider them as differing in degree only, and as gliding by imperceptible shades into each other, than as always capable of being accurately distinguished. What is a vesicle when first ob- served, may assume the appearance of a pustule on the following day; and the thin sero-alhuminous fluid, by which they have been supposed to be distinguished, may be converted into purulent mat- ter before the termination of the disease. As the terms, neverthe- less, are useful as precise distinctions in nomenclature and descrip- tion, and as they occasionally may be traced to a pathological dif- ference, I retain them in the present observations. § 6. Cutaneous inflammation originally affecting the outer surface and vascular layer of the corion, afterwards its substance, sometimes the sacs and bulbs of the hair, and producing purulent matter more or less perfect. Inflammation of the minute circumscribed kind, though com- mencing originally on the surface, may speedily affect the sub- stance of the corion, and in its progress may produce more or less loss of substance, with formation of purulent matter. The objects thus formed are named pustules, and arc to be viewed as instances of genuine phlegmonous or rather purulent inflammation of the skin. Practical authors enumerate four forms under which this species of cutaneous inflammation may take place:—1st, the psy- dracium; 2d, the achor ; 3d, the favus ; and, 4th, the phlyzacium. to this number I add the phlyctidium. 4