GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. * Anatomie Medicale, Tome v. p. 354. 84G sistence is observed under certain circumstances to take place in the pancreas. If attended with increase of size, this may be regard- ed as the effect of inflammation. In other instances, for example, in persons labouring under scurvy, in cachectic persons, and after several eruptive disorders, especially small-pox and scarlet fever, it seems doubtful whether the diminished consistence can be as- cribed to inflammatory orgasm. Portal states that he found it much softened^without being reddened or swollen, in two children cut off by measles; and in the body of a young man between fif- teen and eighteen years, who died on the tenth day of confluent small-pox. When the pancreas is softened, its texture is loose, soft, easily lacerahle, of a yellowish gray or yellowish green colour, and seems permeated by dirty purulent matter. When the tissue is reduced to a soft, greenish-coloured foetid pulpy mass, it is believed to constitute gangrene of the pancreas,— a very rare affection. A case is mentioned by Portal.* I have seen the pancreas in this state, of a pale brick-red colour, the acini still a little firm, but softened all round their margins, and with purulent matter oozing from the interstices of the gland. It seems difficult, therefore, to say, whether the change described as soften- ing of the pancreas is to be regarded as a species of diffuse suppu- ration, or as gangrene. Dr Holscher gives a case, in which a person who had been dys- peptic from his 30th year, began in his 39th to suffer extremely from violent constriction in the region of the transverse arch of the colon, and afterwards from squeamishness, acidity, and sore aphthae in the mouth and tongue, with great emaciation. In the course of twelve months more, after various oscillations, these symptoms terminated fatally. There was then found, one inch and a-half beyond the pylorus, in the duodenum, an ulcer larger than a shilling, with slightly everted edges, surrounded with many blood-vessels, and which had proceeded to perforation about the size of a pea. The pancreas, void of its usual granular structure, seemed partially fleshy, bore some resemblance to the thymus gland of a three months’ infant; was softened and very abundant in blood-vessels, which, when divided, effused blood copiously. In this case the pancreas appears to have been softened, and to