850 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. covered by the pancreas, the pancreas as large as a fowl’s egg, with an uneven, solid fibrous covering, pale, bloodless, with an ir- regular fibrous structure, with many eminences larger than peas at the surface, in which was found a jelly-like brain-lilte matter. The acini were completely compressed. Right in the middle of the largest eminences were roundish bands, which might be traced to the pancreatic duct. The latter, normal in diameter, was buried deep in the mass, had thick, rigid, resisting walls like those of ar- teries ; but upon quitting the mass now mentioned became suddenly large, flaccid, and with thin walls. If these bodies were of medullary structure, as Dr Engel seems to think, then this was rather an example of encephaloid than scir- rhous pancreas. He allows that the ulcers in the stomach and duodenum were not cancerous but simple. The same observer found in the body of a female dead with symptoms of intense jaundice in her 76th year, the pancreas small, very firm and solid ; the excretory duct more than a goose quill in calibre, with many prominent valve-like processes in the interior, and filled with a gray coarse frothy fluid; at the head, however, directed outwards, of normal calibre and condition.* A case given by Dr Battersby is entitled to attention from the correctness of its details. In a widow lady, aged 60, who, after suffering for twelve months from pains regarded as rheumatic, be- came much emaciated, a tumour about the size of an orange ap- peared in the epigastric region, and which was the seat of pulsation. In the course of one or two months the tumour subsided ; but ema- ciation proceeded ; dropsy followed; and death took place. The gastro-hepatic epiploon, especially that part in front of the foramen of Winslow, was very dense, hard, and thickened; and the vessels and ducts were intimately cemented together. This thickening and hardening affected the cellular tissue surrounding the cardiac orifice of the stomach, which resisted the introduction of the little finger. The stomach was universally connected with the left extremity of the pancreas, which was hard and enlarged, and had lost every trace of its natural structure. Near the centre of this gland was a thin translucent horny cyst, which was slightly prominent, about the size of a walnut, and lay directly over the * Nachtrag zu den Itrankheiten des Pancreas und seines Ausfuhrungsganges, von Dr Joseph Engel. Medizinische Jahrbucher des K. K. Osterreich. Staates. xxxin. Band oder xxiv. Band N. Edge, 1842.