269 BRAIN. the testimony of Soemmering, whose inferences, deiived fiom the observations of Lewenhoek, Della Torre, Malacarne, Metzgei, and Prochaska himself, are found in the conclusion of his desciiption of this organ.* From thirty-one experimental observations on the cerebral mat- ter of the human subject, in various mammiferous animals, fowls, and fisbes, Joseph and Charles Wenzel of Tubingen have drawn the conclusionthat the gray and white (cortical and medullary) matter of the human brain, the substance of the colliculi, (optic chambers and striated bodies,) that of the conarium, spinal chord, and nerves; in short, the mass of brain in mammiferous animals, birds, and fishes, consists of the same small roundish bodies, mu- tually cohering, of which the substance of muscle, liver, spleen, ' and kidney is composed; that as these minute bodies derive their shape from the cells of the cellular tissue, the substance of brain, spinal chord, and nervous matter, appears to consist of the same roundish minute bodies; but that the relative size of these cells cannot be determined. These conclusions throw little light on the point at issue,—the minute structure of the cerebral matter in general; and it must be said that the microscopical observations and chemical experi- ments of these anatomists do not communicate information propor- tioned either to their number, or to the elaborate assiduity with which they appear to have been conducted. Subsequently the atomic constitution of different parts of the brain and cerebellum was in- vestigated by Sir Everard Home, aided by the powerful microscopes of M. Bauer. According to this observer, white cerebral matter consists of in- numerable globules, aggregated or connected in rows, so as to con- stitute fibres, by means of a transparent, colourless, jelly-like mat- ter, somewhat viscid, elastic, and readily soluble in water. The globules are whitish, semitransparent, and vary from to of an inch in diameter, the average being Upon different proportions of these two constituent elements, and partly upon differences in size of the component globules, the chief peculiarities of structure in the several sorts of cerebral substance depend. Ihus the gray matter of the convoluted surface of the brain, and the laminated surface of the cerebellum, consists chiefly of globules from t° 5e’en of an inch in diameter, the smaller Samuelis Ihom® Soemmering De Corporis Human! Fnbricn, Tom, III. Tra- jecti ad Moenum, 1800.