898 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. when my attention was first directed to the granular or tubercu- lated liver, I inspected a considerable number of cases, several of the subjects of which I had opportunities of seeing during life. A good proportion of these cases, at least two-thirds, occurred in per- sons who had been as soldiers in the expedition to Walcheren; and after becoming acquainted with this fact, I inferred that it is one of the states of liver disease induced by miasmatic poison. Subsequent observation, however, satisfied me that this conclusion is too limited. I afterwards met with instances of granular liver in all its stages in persons who had not been in aguish districts. Between 1831 and 1845, I saw cases of the disease arising appa- rently under every variety of different circumstances ; residence in cold countries, residence in hot and tropical climates, in persons who had never been out of Great Britain. At the same time, while a considerable proportion of cases was found in the persons of Irish who had migrated to Scotland, it was not always ascer- tained that these persons held been in the bog districts of Ireland. The cause which seems most usually and generally to be followed by the development of this degeneration is the habitual use of spi- rits ; and to this cause, both in London and in Edinburgh, great numbers of granulated liver may be traced. While the influence of this agent is admitted by Becquerel, he adds various other circumstances; gloomy and distressing mental emotions, bad and innutritious food, and residence in damp situa- tions and dwellings. The influence of sex and age it is not easy to determine. Among 18 cases of simple kirrhosis, Becquerel found 12 to be in males and 6 in females. Among 45 cases of complicated kirrhosis, 28 were in males and 17 in females. Among the cases seen by my- self in 1817 and 1818, all occurred in males. Among those seen afterwards, 3 among females were observed to 5 among males. Among 18 cases noted by Becquerel, 7 took place between the ages of 30 and 40, and 5 between 50 and 60. Among those in which the age was noted by myself, two cases took place in young females of 20, two in females between 35 and 40, one in a man of 35 and other three in men between 35 and 50. The disease, therefore, seems to be most prevalent between 30 and 50, or 30 and 45. . As to exciting pathological causes, Becquerel maintains that, dis- ease of the heart is a frequent antecedent, and must be considered as a cause of granular degeneration of the liver. This inference e