TERMINATIONS OF SUPPURATION OF THE KIDNEY. 939 by Mr Howship, in case 7, (p. 43), in a person between 60 and 70 years of age, in whom the matter eventually passed by a small round ulcerated aperture of the peritonaeum into the general ab- dominal cavity. A similar case is recorded by Ohomel.* c. In the third place, the matter may pass directly through the peritoneum into the cavity of the abdomen, establishing a direct communication between the infundibula and pelvis of the kidney and the latter cavity. This is mentioned by Chopart; but it seems to be questioned by Chomel, because no cases are specified by the former. It is proper to mention, therefore, that an instance of this mode of suppurative destruction is afforded in the sixth case by Mr Howship, (p. 49,) taking place in the person of a boy of 7, who had laboured under symptoms of urinary disorder from the age of 18 months, and in whom both kidneys, but especially the left,pre- sented marks of suppurative inflammation, and a communication had been established between the surface of the left kidney and the cavity of the peritonaeum, and the matter had thereby escaped into the interior of the latter. . d‘ A fourth raode m wWch the purulent matter may escape, is into the transverse arch of the colon, especially if it be the left kidney. Of this mode of issue Fantoui records an instance; and m the year 1832, in inspecting the body of a woman destroyed bv cholera, I found a state of parts which shows that the same issue must have taken place in that case. In the transverse arch of the colon was a fistulous opening leading into the pelvis of the rieht kidney, in which and the expanded renal substance was contained a large calculus. e\ In the fifth place, the communication may open, and the mat- ter be evacuated into the sigmoid flexure or rectum. Of this an instance is recorded by Eonnetf in the person of a young woman f A sixth mode in which renal abscess has been observed to nro- cure an outlet for itself is by producing ulcerative destruction of the diaphragm and pleura, and evacuating its contents into Hi . lungs ana Lroncki. Of this De Haen give! an inst^ti “whi m the person of a young man of 15, after symptoms of renal in- flammation, purulent matter was first voided with the urine, ™d, Archives Gen. xiiii. p. 12. + Journal Hebdomadaire, Tome vii p 30- 278. ' 1' " ‘ Archives Cloncmles, Tome xxiv.