445 BONE. questionable. The morbid process, however, to which the actual bony particles may not be competent, the membranous covering and the vascular filamentous penetrating web, are unquestionably power- ful agents in effecting. In short, while bone as a secretion is almost passive in its morbid relations, we observe it obeying the slightest influence of the periosteum and its vessels on the one hand, and those of its medullary system on the other. Having premised these remarks, it is to be observed that inflam- mation occurring in bone may assume various forms. 1. Adhesive Inflammation.—Of these the simplest is that which takes place in the process of union after fractures,—the healthy ossi- flc inflammation of Mr Hunter, a variety of the adhesive. In this three distinct stages are enumerated. In the first, effusion of blood from the periosteal vessels into its substance, and from tbe medul- lary vessels into the fracture, is after coagulation followed by effu- sion of a colourless viscid fluid, which also coagulates into a jelly. (J. Hunter, Bichat, Howship, &c.) In the second, the soft parts, and especially the periosteum, become hot, red, swollen, and, in short, are in a state of inflammation. (Du Hamel, Howship, &c.) If at this time the fracture be examined, the periosteal and medul- lary arteries at the line of fracture are large, numerous, and are seen emitting vessels into the coagulated blood and lymph effused beneath the periosteum, and from the broken ends, and converting them into organized masses, sometimes distinct like granulations, sometimes irregularly continuous. This substance, which is of a reddish-gray colour, and of the consistence of firm jelly, is what is named callus. The third stage may be distinguished by the ap- pearance of osseous points which now begin to be deposited from the new vessels, which penetrate from the periosteum and medul- lary filaments to the callus. As the arterial action advances, these osseous points extend from the broken surface and coalesce. The exterior swelling at the same time diminishes and disappears; the periosteum falls to its natural size and its ordinary rate of vascu- larity ; the medullary canal is restored in greater or less perfec- tion ; and the broken portion of bone after some time recovers the same organization and firmness nearly which it originally possessed. Instead of the longitudinal canals which are found in compact healthy bone, however, the renewed part presents a series of irre- gular cavities, varying in size and direction, and which contain a vascular, filamentous, medullary web. (Howship.) According to m