271 BRAIN. 2. A set of tubes presenting at definite intervals globular or spheroidal expansions, so as to resemble a string of beads, which do not touch each other, but have a short communicating space inter- posed between each bead. To these tubes he gives the name of varicose, from their resemblance to the varices of a vein, and jointed or articulated tubes, because of the slight resemblance to a set of joints. These tubes, which present to the microscope the appear- ance of parallel fibres, he shows by various proofs to have an in- ternal cavity or canal, and to contain a peculiar matter, to which he assigns the name and qualities of nervous fluid. These are con- fined chiefly to the white matter of the brain. They may be termed moniliform tubes. 3. A set of tubes straight and uniform, without the alternate spheroidal enlargements, also hollow, and to which he applies the name of simple cylindrical tubes. These are found chiefly in the nervous chords and trunks. They are generally larger and coarser than the articulated tubes. But at certain points the latter pass into the former by gradually losing their bead-like enlargements. These tubes Ehrenberg represents to be distinguished from the ce- rebral jointed tubes, by containing in their interior a viscid, white, but less transparent matter, to which he applies the name of me- dullary. The substance of the circumference or the convoluted part of the brain consists of a thick, very delicate, vascular network, con- veying often numerous blood-globules, and traversed by serpen- tine tendinous fibres. Besides the thick delicate vascular net of the first substance, Ehrenberg saw in the same, near its utmost edge and its remotest circumference, a very fine-grained soft substance, in which here and there are imbedded larger grains or nuclei. These large grains are free, and consist of granules or nucleoli which are connected in rows by means of slender threads to the fine small grains of the substance singly. In the neighbourhood of the me- dullary substance, the fibrous character of the cortical matter al- ways appears more distinctly ; and in the same substance the blood- vessels are larger and less numerous. The white or medullary matter of the brain shows more distinct- ly the arrangement of fibres, which proceed in the form of direct and enlarging continuations of the delicate cortical fibres, from certain eminences, that is, the linear or band-like origins of the convoluted surface, in a radiated manner, towards the brain. These 11