313 BRAIN. so soft as to sink under the knife or finger ; and troni the third doi - sal vertebra to the lower part of the sacrum, it was a red blood- coloured pulp destitute of organization.* The cases of Chevalier, which belong rather to the head of meningeal hemorrhage, shall be noticed afterwards. Pulpy softening of the spinal chord may arise either spontaneously or as a consequence of injury, more especially if that injury causes fracture or even concussion of the vertebrae. When it takes place spontaneously, often the arteries of the chord are previously dis- eased. Most commonly the appearance of the chord is that of a pulpy softened mass, falling entirely down on the membranes being divided. In extreme cases, the chord is converted into a soft se- mifluid diffluent mass, not unlike cream. Sometimes in recent cases, considerable vascularity and injection are observed. But in chronic cases, the vessels are in general scanty. When the disease arises spontaneously, it may affect a large portion of the chord. When softening is the result of injury, as contusion, concussion, or fracture of the vertebrae, it is in general limited to the spot where the injured bones are situate. The anatomical and physical cha- racters are the same. The effects produced by capillary injection and hemorrhage in the spinal chord vary according to the stage of the process and the region of the chord in which it occurs. In the stage of injection it produces irregular involuntary twitches of the muscles of the trunk and extremities, numbness and coldness of the skin about the back, and occasionally of the limbs, and more or less of muscular power. In the advanced stage, whether that of hemorrhage or of pulpy de- struction, numbness and palsy of the paraplegic form are com- plete. In some instances the state of capillary injection appears to give rise to tetanic symptoms. This fact, which was observed by Dr Robert Ileid in Ireland,| Duchatelet,j: Martinet, and 011ivier,§ * Journal General de Medecine de Chirurgie et de Pharmacie, Ac. 12ieme annee, Tome XXXII. A Paris, 1808. P. 129. t On the Nature and Treatment of Tetanus and Hydrophobia. By Robert Reid, M.D. Dublin, 1817. X Recherchcs sur l’Inflammation de l’Arachnoide cerebrale et Spinale, Ac. Par M.M. Parent-Duchatelet et L. Martinet. Paris, 1821. § De la Moelle Epiniere et de ees Maladies, Ac. Par C. P. Ollivier d’Angers. A Paris, 1824. Pp. 307, 308, 317, 349.