255 BRAIN. its' surface than otherwise. It is said to be more abundantly sup- plied with vessels than the white matter ; (Ruysch, Albinus, Pio- chaska, Soemmering, and Ehrenberg;) and indeed a great number of large vessels enters it all .over, and. especially at certain parts, e. g. the perforated space of the Sylvian fissure. It is not, howevei, abso- lutely and at all points more vascular than the white matter. The transition from the gray convoluted matter to the white inclosed, is in all parts of the hemispheres sudden and distinct. It is more distinct, however, after induration by immersion in alcohol or di- lute acid than in the recent brain. The only part of the convoluted surface which presents a distinct fibrous arrangement is that part of the Sylvian fissure which has been named by Red the unciform bundle; (der haakenformigeMark- biindel). This, however, can scarcely he said to belong to the convoluted surface. It is situate on the outside of the perforated spot, and corresponds with a short smooth convolution, which passes between the middle and the anterior lobes. The unciform bundle, in short, unites these lobes, and is intimately connected* with the internal arrangement of the nucleus and its capsule, parts immedi- ately to be noticed. The white cerebral matter is arranged in various parts of the organ, in the form of inconceivably minute parallel lines, lying in juxtaposition. It is unnecessary to enumerate all the parts in which this arrangement may be observed; and greater advantage will result from a short view of the mutual relation and connection of the fibrous parts of the organ, so far as they are well ascertained. In tracing this part of the intimate structure of the brain, several anatomists have imbibed the notion that one part of the brain gives rise to or generates another. From this assumption even Red is not wholly exempt. Without entering on the subject of organo- genesy, or the question of, which part of the brain in the foetal ex- istence is first, and which subsequently formed,—which will be con- sidered in its own place—I begin with stating, that in the adult every part of the organ is supposed to he coeval; that the idea of one part generating or reinforcing anothqr is an effort of fancy which must not be admitted in strict science; that when a bundle ot fibres, or a fibrous arrangement, is seen proceeding from one part to another, it is imagination only which suggests that the for- mer produces the latter, or conversely ; and that from this nothing Archiv. fur die Physiologic, 9ter Band, pp. lft-l, 197, and 201.