GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, 188 they were found. This mechanism, which was equally invisible with the Hallerian, was, for obvious reasons, denied by Bichat, who resolved to reject every opinion not founded on anatomical obser- vation, and to determine the existence of the exhalants by this evi- dence alone. Obliged, however, to avow the difficulty of forming a distinct idea of a system of vessels, the extreme tenuity of which prevented them from being seen, he undertook to attain his object by what he terms a rigorous train of reasoning. This consists in nothing more than the effects observed to result from fine and successful injections of watery fluids, or of spirit of turpentine containing some finely levigated colouring matter, from the phenomena of active hemorrhage, which Bichat considers merely as exhalation of blood instead of serous fluid, and from a multitude of considerations which are to be unfolded in the course of further examination of the subject. In this manner he believes himself warranted to conclude, that the only things rigorously as- certained are, ls£. The existence of exhalants; 2d, Their origin in the capillary system of the part in which they are distributed : and, 3of, Their termination on the surfaces of serous and mucous mem- branes, and the outer surface of the corion or true skin. The exhalant vessels, the existence, origin, and termination of which he thus proved, he distinguished into three classes. The first contains those exhalants which are concerned in the production of the fluids, which are immediately removed from the body,—the cutaneous and the mucous exhalants. The second contain those exhalants which are employed in the formation of fluids, which, continuing a given time on various membranous surfaces, are be- lieved to be finally taken again into the circulation by means of absorption. And the third class consists of the exhalants con- cerned in the process of depositing nutritious matter in the differ- ent tissues and organs of the human frame. This arrangement is more distinctly seen in the following table. <U c3 s a rt ,c « 1. Exterior, opening on natural surfaces or canals. . 2. Interior, opening on membranes, or within cellular textures. I ,'j. Nutritious. Cutaneous. Mucous. Serous. Synovial. Cellular. Medullary. Each organic tissue is in this system supposed to have its appro- priate exhalant arteries, from which it derives the material requi- site for its nutrition.