GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 856 vex surface is the most usual seat of this deposition and transfor- mation ; and it is most common in females. There are evidently layers of albuminous effusion, the result of chronic inflammation. § 4. Tubercles.—The hepatic peritoneum is, like other parts of that membrane, liable to be affected with osseous degeneration ; and it may be occupied with minute hard semitranslucent tuber- cles, when the peritoneum is affected by these bodies. All these conditions are liable to be attended with inflammation of the mem- brane, that is redness, congestion, roughness, and exudation of coagulating lymph, but which is slow in progress, and in other respects of a chronic character. It then usually happens that the hepatic peritoneum adheres more or less extensively and firmly to the diaphragmatic, the gas- tric, or the muscular peritoneum. This disorder is most usual when the abdominal peritoneum generally is affected by tubercles. It has been formerly mentioned that in one order of tubercles adhesion is most common ; and in another ascites. § 1. Inflammation of the Hepatic Substance.—Inflamma- tion of the substance of the liver has been generally, since the time of Cullen at least, believed to be of a chronic nature; and doubtless the trifling or obscure symptoms which appear in cases, in which dissection discloses a considerable abscess of the organ, are highly favourable to this opinion. For, independent of the avowed diffi- culty of ascertaining the existence of what has been termed chronic hepatitis during life, almost all authors abound with examples of abscess of the organ discovered on dissection, yet in which no de- cisive symptom had led to the suspicion of such an event. The truth of this I can verify by personal testimony. Various reasons, however, lead me to doubt whether hepatic inflammation is invari- ably chronic ; and several facts prove that it assumes, under cer- tain circumstances, a sufficiently acute form. 1. In the tropical regions, inflammation of the hepatic substance is often attended with acute pain, quick pulse, and all the marks of a violent disease ; and unless remedies be seasonably and ener- getically employed, suppuration takes place in a period sufficiently short to warrant the opinion of the inflammation being acute, (Clark, (Med. Com. xiv. p. 322,) Ballingall, Marshall). 2. In tro- pical countries, also, there are two forms of hepatic inflammation,— one, acute, rapid, and with well-marked symptoms; the other slow, long-continued, and with indistinct symptoms. 3. Though, in