GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 574 or death of these bodies, causes an insanable disease speedily fatal. In Mr Dyson’s case, in which the epiglottis and upper part of the trachea were ulcerated, the os hyoides became carious, and was exfoliated dead.* Of both acute and chronic laryngitis, it is a peculiar character, that death often takes place suddenly, and sometimes when not ex- pected. The causes of chronic laryngitis are the same as those of the acute form ; that is, exposure to cold, previous attacks of the acute form, and extraordinary efforts of the voice in speaking, crying, or shout- ing. One cause, however, is so peculiar that it deserves mention. It consists in the use of mercury, often in repeated courses. In almost all the cases of chronic laryngitis which have come under my observation during the course of twenty-five years, the sufferers had been subjected to one or more full courses of mercurial medicines, and sometimes to several repeated courses. The effect of this was to render all the mucous surfaces prone to irritation and inflamma- tion ; and especially where these surfaces are near the periosteum or perichondrium. The cases are always susceptible of alleviation ; but the symptoms invariably recur, showing the chronic nature of the disorder, and the firm hold which it takes of the larynx. y. Ulceration of the Laryngeal and Tracheal membrane in phthisis. —In persons cut off by tubercular consumption, minute ulcers of the laryngeal and tracheal membrane are not unfrequent. I hey vary in size, and are irregular in shape; but in general they ap- pear in the form of angular or oval spots, from which the mucous membrane has been entirely removed. In the larynx of a young woman in my collection, I count five of these eroded spots affecting the oval shape, none of more extent than one square line, and one patch evidently formed by the coalescence of two, as large as the section of a split pea; and in the tracheal membrane of the same subject, at the bronchial bifurcations, large patches of the same de- scription are visible. In the latter situation, indeed, this destiuc- tion is more common and more extensive than in any other point. The most frequent site of ulcers of the larynx, according to Louis, is the junction of the vocal chords; then the vocal chords themselves; and lastly, the base of the arytenoid cartilages, the upper part of the larynx and the sacculi. In the trachea these ulcers occupy chiefly the posterior part. The bronchial mem- * Mem. Med. Society, Vol. TV.