GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 816 by Daviel in 1829, by Lawrence in 1826 and 1828,* and by M. Jules Cloquet in 1835.f It is not perfectly certain, whether in all these cases the gland was affected by genuine scirrhus. It is certain that in its site was a hard firm body, generally much swelled, and forcing the eyeball downwards. In each of the cases almost the structure of the gland was different. In two cases, in which Mr Lawrence operated, he allows that the gland in respect of hardness might have been called scirrhus; but he adds, that he saw no reason for suspecting the disease to be malignant. If this latter conclusion be admitted, then it follows that these are examples of simple induration (side- roma) of glands. In all these cases, however, the gland is more or less enlarged, sometimes very much so. In those cases in which the lacrymal gland has been examined after extirpation, it has been observed that the elementary particles or granules were hard and enlarged, chiefly by the effusion of lymph. But the appearances vary in different instances. Schmidt, and afterwards Beer, describe the formation of true hydatids as occurring in the lacrymal gland. Their pressure causes a tumour at the upper part of the orbit, and some degree of exophthalmia. Among the salivary glands, the morbid states of the parotid have attracted most attention. It is known that the parotid and socia parotidis are liable to acute inflammation, forming the disease known by the popular name of Mumps and Branks, and also to various chronic disorders. Of the former I need scarcely speak in this place; because, though a disease not unimportant, yet it is rarely the object of attention to the pathological inquirer; and the accounts given in the ordinary treatises contain all the information which it is necessary to possess on the affection % and the diseases in conjunction with which it ap- pears either as an effect or a part. One or two points only require to be here noticed. The swelling which takes place in the parotid region in remittent fever, typhous * A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, by William Lawrence, P. R. S. London, 1833. Chapter xxix. sect. i. Du Squirrhe de la Glande Lacrymale et de PAblation de cette Glande, par G. E. Maslieurat-Lagemard. Archives Generales, iiie. et Nouvelle Serie. T. vii. ou T. lii. Paris, 1840. P. 90. + Elements of Practice of Medicine. Vol. ii. Book ii. Chapter v. ยง iv. p. 410.