214 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. or osseous matter by Assalini.* Cheston found it obstructed with a solid substance resembling calcareous matter ;f Bayford found it much obstructed by the pressure of an aneurismal tumour and Scherb is said to have met with an actual concretion.§ All these phenomena, excepting that of the aneurismal tumour, are the ef- fects of strumous disorder. The lymphatics have been long supposed to be the agents con- cerned in the formation of king’s evil, (struma, scrofula,) and in the development of the disease when latent. What are the proofs ot this opinion ? Have the lymphatics been actually found disor- ganized in cases of strumous disease, and does scrofula never take place without traces of this disorganization ? Do they act as the cause, or do they partake in the effects of another morbific agent more general in operation ? In answering these questions much will de- pend upon the meaning attached to the term scrofula. If this be a disease appearing in the lymphatic glands only, there may be some ground for the opinion. But to assemble the numerous disorders termed strumous, under the head of the lymphatics, implies conclu- sions which are not supported by anatomical facts. It seems more natural and more consistent with the known phe- nomena of diseased action, to place the genesis of struma, whatever that may be, in the process of digestion, in the lacteal vessels that arise from the jejunum, and in the blood of the small capillary vessels generally. From what is most generally observed, the pro- cess of arterialization in the lungs appears to be defective. Since the arguments which have been adduced against the ab- sorbent power of the lymphatic vessels by Mayer, Magendie, and others, their influence either in the production of dropsy, or in re- moving it, seems to be very doubtful. How far can they be admitted to explain the process of ulcerative absorption so ingeniously contrived and ably maintained by John Hun- ter? and what share can they be supposed to possess in the removal of other matters, either proper or foreign to the system, as that patholo- gist believed ? Upon these questions accurate facts are still wanting. * Essai Medical sur lea Vaisseaux Lymphatiqu.es, &c. Par Paolo Assalini. Tu- rin, 17U7-8. f Philosophical Transactions, Vol. LXX. 1780. And Pathological Inquiries ; and Observations on Surgery, from the Dissections of Morbid Bodies ; with an Appendix containing three Cases on dilf'erent subjects. By Richard Browne Clieston, Surgeon to the Gloucester Infirmary. 4to. Gloucester, 1766. + Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. III. p. 18. § Apud Haller, Dissertation. Patholog. a