SKIN. 639 To this head also may be referred some of the cutaneous erup- tions which occur either among the secondary symptoms of syphilis, or in the persons of those who, for this disease, have been subjected to one or more courses of mercurial medicines. Though these eruptions may appear sometimes in the form of papulae, sometimes as a variety of rupia, and sometimes as ecthyma, they are also not unfrequently of the chronic pustulo-tubercular nature, originally taking place in the corion, and causing more or less ulceration of that membrane. Their connection with inflammation of the mucous and fibro-mucous membranes is well known. Upon elephantiasis so much accurate information has been col- lected by Dr Adams, Mr Lawrence, and Dr Lee, that little diffi- culty can be experienced in settling its characters as a morbid state of the skin. The case described so well by the last of these observers, I had repeated opportunities of seeing; and the appear- ance of the skin could leave no doubt of the disease affecting the substance of the corion. The exact nature of this affection is per- haps less easily determined. By calling it a tubercular eruption, after the manner of Dr Bateman, little exact information is com- municated. Bichat states that he has seen the corion manifestly disorganized in elephantiasis,* but says nothing of the anatomical characters of this disorganization. Pinel, Beclard, and Meckel, are equally silent on this subject. In short, though we have good descriptions of the external visible appearances of Arabian leprosy, an accurate description of its anatomical characters is still a desL deratum. Wart and corn are believed to depend on morbid accumulation of cuticle. The former, however, is vascular at its basis; and it may therefore be inferred that its production depends on’ morbid action of the surface of the corion at the particular point at which it appears. II. § 1. Dermatamia, Dermaturrhagia Hemorrhage of the skin appears under two forms; either that of a bloody or blood-coloured fluid oozing from certain regions, or of blood effused in the form Of purple specks, spots, patches, or livid stripes on the surface of tlm corion below the scarf-skin. The former discharge is rare, and takes place chiefly as a supplementary evacuation to some na- tural one accidentally suppressed, as the menstrual dischar. For Schcrlievo, Annali Universali de Medecina ge in