509 SKIN. form of opaque patches. In the liquid secreted by the corion during the application of a blister, and that contained within the vesications produced by scalding, the same facts may be recog- nized. That obtained from the vesication of a blister separates spontaneously into coagulable and fluid portions ; and the addition to the latter of the smallest portion of nitrate of silver is followed by a copious formation of opake albuminous matter. rl hese facts show that the new secretion, though discharged fluid, afterwards sepai’ates into a serous and an albuminous portion, and is an im- perfect or modified coagulable lymph; that both are the product of the inflammatory process; and that the latter is analogous to that producing albuminous exudation from serous membranes. This analogy has not escaped Bichat, who remarks, that vesications do not occur in the latter, solely because they want epidermis. To this head belongs the inflammation of cutaneous whitloe. § 3. Cutaneous inflammation commencing in circumscribed or definite points of the outer surface of the corion, and producing mi- nute eminences or pimples (papula?,) which disappear gradually or terminate in scurf, or minute exfoliations of the cuticle. When cutaneous inflammation appears in the form of innumer- able minute points, which, without spreading or coalescing, remain in general distinct, it differs in nature from that which has been already considered as the spreading or diffuse inflammation. The simplest form under which this is observed to occur, is that which consists of the minute pointed elevations named pimples (papula,) which may be described as small conical eminences, surrounded by a red circle, and sometimes attended with superficial redness of the neighbouring skin, but without definite figure. They are slow in progress, do not proceed to suppuration, and after remain- ing an uncertain time, subside gradually, occasioning a branny or scurfy exfoliation of the scarf-skin, with which they are covered. These seem to have been the circumstances which induced Dr Willan to consider pimples as arising from inflammation of the papilla or conical eminences of the corion. I cannot say that per- sonal observation has enabled me to determine, whether this is at all times truly the case or not; and I therefore will not positively deny the accuracy of the opinion. On this point, however, I re- mark, that I have seen and daily see instances of strophulus in which the papular eruption can neither in form nor distribution be traced to the cutaneous papillae; that the eruption of lichen in