MORBID STATES OF THE MAMMA. 963 much enlarged both in its cortical and tubular portion; its vessels are large and numerous; and little doubt can be entertained that it performs the functions of both glands. Such I found to be the state of the residual kidneys in the instances of atrophy already mentioned. § 14. Heterologous Products.—The kidneys are liable to be affected by these, chiefly by enkephaloma, and sometimes by carci- noma. But most usually they are involved in the growth extend- ing from other organs. In other circumstances, these growths in the kidney present nothing peculiar. Section VI. Diseased States of the Female Breast. These are inflammation and its effects; suppurative induration; chronic inflammation; lacteal tumour; simple chronic tumour; strumous enlargement; the hydatomatous tumour; irritable or neuralgic tumour; adipose tumour ; atrophy; hypertrophy; scir- rhus; pancreatic sarcoma, and enkephaloma. § 1. Inflammation is seen sometimes spontaneously, more fre- quently as the effect of the irritation from the first attempt at the secretion of milk. It usually proceeds to abscess, which, however is seated most in the cellular tissue of the gland. § 2. Induration is a common effect of inflammation, and depends on the infiltration of lymph which undergoes coagulation, and oil the presence of blood in the vessels, from which the lymph is sepa- rated. r J § 3. Strumous enlargement is common in young females. Tu- bercular matter or a liquid containing fat and caseous matter is in- filtered within the tubes and around them. In certain cases, after this has subsisted some time, it undergoes an imperfect suppuration • and causes a peculiar copious secretion of matter and abscesses of the perimastoid cellular tissue. § 4. Hidatoma. Cystosarkoma Simplex and Cystosakkoma 1 roliferum of Muller In the hydatomatous tumour, a number of serous cysts .s formed in the breast, which is generally consolidated by adhesive inflammation. The cysts may be only one or two, but are generally more numerous. In certain eases they appear to be rue hydatids or Acephalocysts; and in others, the serous cyst (hydatoma). In the latter case they areeither a cyst composed of