VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. 121 lie, two superficial veins of the arm, the former, after passing the bicipital fascia, forms in the sheath the brachial vein, and becoming the axillary in the axilla, receives the latter vessel. In the same manner, the saphena, capa/w??, vena manifesto,) the super- ficial vein of the leg, passes through the falciform process of the fascia lata to join the femoral vein. From this it results that the venous canals are on the whole more numerous than the arterial. In a few situations only, a single vein corresponds to two arteries, as in the penis, the clitoris, the . gall-bladder, and the umbilical chord. Often also in the renal capsules and the kidneys, two or more arteries have only one cor- responding vein. In such circumstances the vein is always large and capacious. It has been generally stated that the calibre and area of the ve- nous tubes are much larger than those of the corresponding arte- ries, and, consequently, that the capacity of the venous system is much greater than that of the arterial. I acknowledge that I know not on what exact evidence the former of these propositions, the only one with which the anatomist is concerned, is made to rest. If it be mere inspection in the dead subject, or the effects of injec- tion, little doubt can be entertained that the alleged greater calibre depends chiefly on the laxity and distensible nature of the venous fibre. The arterial tubes appear small in consequence of the ten- dency which they have to collapse, or annular contraction, when the distending force has ceased to operate. The venous canals ap- pear large by reason of their distension and distensibility during life, from the tendency to accumulation in their branches in most kinds of death, except that by hemorrhage, and from a smaller de- gree of the physical property of shrinking and annular contraction when empty. When a vascular sheath is exposed in the human subject, as in the operation for aneurism, or in the lower animals in the way of experiment, the vein, it must be admitted, generally appears larger than the corresponding artery. This, however, is never so consi- derable as it is represented by most authors, and certainly could by no means afford grounds for the high estimates which Keill, .Turin, and other mathematical physiologists have assigned to the relative capacity of the arteries and veins. It is also to be observed that something of this greater size depends on the increase of dila- tation resulting from removing the pressure of superincumbent