GASTRIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE—MINERAL ACIDS. 017 acid has been swallowed accidentally, or used^for the puipose ot self-destruction. Though it is true, however, that these substances pioduce in many instances inflammation, and in several corrosion, it is not es- tablished that they in all cases cause ulceration. It is very doubt- ful even if arsenic itself, to which this property has been often as- cribed, ever induces ulceration; for in a large proportion of cases in which particles of the solid oxide have been found in the stomach, no ulceration has been recognized. The reason of this I conceive to be, that death is effected by the severity of the general operation of the agent, before there is time for ulceration. From the instances of deglutition of sulphuric and nitric acid which have fallen under my own observation, and from the records of other cases, the following conclusions may, I think, be established. ] sf, The first effect of sulphuric acid is evinced in its transit over the membrane of the mouth, throat, and oesophagus. It there indurates, crispates, and raises into vesications the mucous epider- mis, and giving it a brownish colour and greater firmness. Nitric acid produces the same effects, imparting, however, a citron yellow colour to the epidermis. Both acids render the terminal boundaries of the epidermis at the cardia much more distinctly visible than in the natural state. Both sulphuric and nitric acid produce at the epiglottis and up- per part of the larynx so much detachment of the mucous epider- mis with inflammation generally, as to give rise to symptoms of laryngitis and oedema glottidis, much as after the accidental swal- lowing of boiling water. Even during life the symptoms of gasp- ing and spasmodic depression of the lower jaw are as well marked as in cases of spontaneous laryngitis, and in most instances they are more intense. In the stomach the effects vary as the organ is empty or contains articles of food. If it contain articles of food, these are generally blackened, hardened, and charred, as it were, by the contact of the acid. If the organ be empty, or contain little food, the parts touched by the acid appear like portions blackened, indurated, and charred. The blood in the vessels is coagulated and blackened; and the vessels appear as if they had been filled by a dark-coloured injec- tion which has speedily become solid. The blackened and indurat- ed patches vary in size and shape. They may he small, but most