STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—TESTES. 807 Monro estimated the number of seminiferous tubes at 300; while ILauth made their average number 840. The latter author esti- mated the mean length of all the ducts united at 1750 feet. The individual ducts he found to vary in length, the mean being 25 inches. Krause estimated their entire length at 1015 feet. That the membrane composing the tubuli is of a mucous charac- ter has been proved by microscopic examination ; and it is further continuous with the mucous surface of the genito-urinary system. There is no appearance of interlobular substance. The ducts are connected by a loose network of vessels, and consequently may be easily separated and unravelled. The tubes are usually injected with mercury, and in this state are shown in most anatomical col- lections. Sir Astley Cooper injected the tubes with size; but of the method which he followed no account is given. When the tubuli are unravelled, they are found to divide and to form numerous anastomotic unions, which increase in frequency as they approach the circumference of the gland. The tubuli thus form one large communicating network, in which it is impossible to isolate completely either one duct or one lobule. In one in- stance only did Lauth, who discovered these anastomoses of the se- miniferous tubuli, find a duct terminating in a blind sac; and this he regards as an exception. Blind sacs have been more frequently found, however, by Krause. The convolutions of the seminiferous tubes diminish in number as they approach the mediastinum and cease at a distance of from one to two lines, where two or more unite to form one single, straight duct termed vcis rectum, whith joins the rete testis at a right angle. The vasa recta are very slender, and easily give way when injected. Their calibre, which is greater than that of the se- minal tubes, is estimated by Lauth at l-108th of an inch. Their number Haller reckoned at 20; but it is believed that they are more numerous. The rete testis is formed of a plexus of seminal tubes, which oc- cupies the Corpus Highmorianum or mediastinum testis. The vasa recta, after penetrating the walls of the corpus, terminate in from seven to thirteen vessels, which, running parallel to each other in a waving course, and frequently dividing and anastomosing, form the , TlS' 1 he mean diameter of these vessels Lauth found in in- jected preparations to be l-72d of an inc i. l^rom the upper part of the rete thus formed issue vessels in num-