868 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Louis and Andral, four may be traced to this source. In 15 cases seen by Dr Budd in the Dreadnought hospital ship, only one belongs to this head. Inflammation of any vein may be followed by the formation of purulent matter in one or more collections in the liver; but the veins, in which inflammation is most generally followed by this result, are the veins of bones, often very minute, and the veins of the intestinal viscera, from the stomach to the rectum. The influence of inflammation in the veins of bones in producing hepatic abscess appears in different modes. One of the most com- mon is after injuries of the skull. It had been observed by Pare, Pigray, (1658,) De Marchettis, (1665,) a Meek’ren, (1682,) and other surgeons of the seventeenth century, that after wounds of the head and fractures of the skull, abscess of the liver was an occurrence so common, as always to be apprehended. Various attempts, some odd enough, were made to explain this combination of pathological phenomena, which was too regular to be regarded as accidental. Little regard was given to the modes of explanation, however, till the middle of the following century, when, within the lapse of some years, the sub- ject exercised the ingenuity of Petit, Bertrandi, Andouille, Pou- teau, and other members of the French Academy, and Richter, Bianchi, Morgagni, Cheston, (1766,) and other observers in dif- ferent countries of Europe. Previous to the time of Bertrandi, two opinions appear to have been entertained regarding the cause of hepatic suppuration after injuries of the head. Pare, a Meek’ren, and the cotemporaries of the latter merely note the conjunction of the two phenomena, and suppose the suppuration first formed within the brain, and thence absorbed and deposited in the liver. By another party, among whom may be placed Gfoursaud, it was ascribed to sympathetic af- fection of the nerves, or the reflux of purulent matter. This author, in a memoir presented to the Academy in 1751, gives two cases, in one of which hepatic abscess followed a wound of the finger, and in another a blow on the tibia, and ascribes them generally to nervous influence.* This phenomenon Bertrandi ascribed to derangement in the motion of the blood in the brain. He supposed that, after every violent concussion of the brain, the blood flows in greater abun- * Recucil des Pieces qui out concouru pour In Prix de PAcademie do Clmuijpe, Tome iii. Paris, 17 A9. Sur la Metastase, p. 3.