CEREBRAL SEROUS MEMBRANE—INSANITY. 725 120 cases inspected, though in a few (5) the pia mater is stated to be pale, in more (9) it was reddish; and in a number still greater its vessels were injected with dark blood. The exterior surface was in 29 cases white, thick, and mucous; sometimes dry and lar- daceous, like the buffy coat of inflamed blood, near the vertex, along the mesial margins of the hemispheres. In 29 cases this alteration extended more generally over the membrane. In 9 it was observed over the convex and plane surfaces of the hemispheres; and in 6 it extended round the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. The white, thick, opaque appearance Greding ascribes to subarach- noid effusion; the dry lardaceous to albuminous exudation. In 37 cases he found minute, pisiform, or lenticular eminences, like a mustard-seed, a hemp-seed, or a pea, soft or hard, disseminated over the membrane ; in 27 cases more copious and thickly set; and in 14 cases accumulated abundantly. These bodies, which are to be distinguished from the glandules of Pacchioni, bv situation, soft consistence, and milky colour, appear to be a product of the in- flammatory process. I have occasionally seen them in subjects in whom the traces of chronic inflammation were distinct.* Similar changes in the cerebral membranes were recognised by Joseph Wenzel of Mayence,f an 1 Chiarugi of Florence. The latter especially, among 59 necroscopic inspections of insane per- sons, found in 54 more or less thickening of the membranes, serous infiltration of the subarachnoid tissue, with or without injection of the capillaries, and serous flui 1 to greater or less amount within the ventricles.J Much the same results may be derived from the necroscopic re- ports of Haslam and Marshall. Of 37 cases of insane persons ex- amined by the former, whatever was the state of the brain, the membranes were unsound in all except one (the 33d); and in this “ considerable determination of blood to the brain shows that the capillaries of the pia mater were inordinately loaded. In 23 of these cases, the pia mater was injected and loaded with blood, more or less reddened or disordered in its capillary system. In 24 cases, the arachnoid membrane was opaque; in some instances of milky * Mclancholico-Maniacorum et Epilcpticorum quorundam in Ptocliotropheo Wald- heimensi demortuorum sectiones tradit J. E. Orecling, Continuatio 2da. Apud Ludwig Adversaria, Vol. ii. Part iii. p. 449. 1* Observations sur lc Cervelet etsur les diverses parties du cerveau dans les Epilep- tiques, par Jos. Wenzel, D. M. &c. Traduit par M. Breton. Paris, 1811. + De,la Pazzia in genere e in specie, Trattato Medico-Analitico con una centuria d’Osservazioni. 3 Tomi, 8vo. Firenze, 1793, 1794.