733 CEREBRAL SEROUS MEMBRANE—ARTERIAL DISEASE. closed, and indeed may be closed. In some points the vessels be- come tortuous and serpentine. Transverse sect,ons also show an- other change. The inner coat is separated from the middle by fis- sures or chinks, caused apparently by the new deposition between them • and all over the tunics present specks of steatomatous or osseous matter, sometimes rings of bone, and in short they are con- verted into inelastic, brittle, and more or less rigid tubes. The effects of this state of the cerebral arteries on the circulation are considerable, though not permanent. The blood is liable to irregularity in its movement, and sometimes to become entirely stopped. In this state the obstructed motion induces an attack of cataphora, or stupor and insensibility, lasting for several hours, or even for one or two days. In other cases it induces a degree of confusion and inability to walk, or keep in the erect position, with drowsiness, yet with the patient being capable of being roused, or spontaneously rousing himself at intervals. After some hours of rest, with the use of adequate means, the patient perfectly recovers, and seems as well in intellect, memory, and observation, as ever. He is liable nevertheless, to recurrences of these fits of cataphora, and in one of them death may take place. Fits of this kind, neverthe- less I have seen come and go in the same individuals for several years, apparently without affecting the health or the intellect, and with only a degree of impaired memory. These attacks of cata- phora are often mistaken for attacks of apoplexy; but they are not so and do not require the same treatment. Often, indeed, the pa- tient recovers spontaneously after a sound sleep. An awkward position of the head and neck occasionally precedes these attacks. In other instances, the osteo-steatomatous state of the arteries produces more permanent and more serious disorder. By obstruct- ing the circulation, it induces the state formerly described as atro- phy of the convolutions and brain, often with copious effusion into the subarachnoid tissue and within the ventricles. In other cases, the individual speaks thick and inarticulately, is unsteady in his motions, and, though not paralytic, the limbs totter and shake. There is also more or less loss of memory. Such was the state of the person whose cerebral arteries I have above described as ex- tensively affected by this transformation. Lastly, from this state of the arteries, evils'still more consider- able may result. It has been observed several times to give rise to aneurism without or with rupture and hemorrhage. Thus Mr