STEATOSIS OR GRANULAR DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY. 947 stage of the disorder, soft and flaccid. The whole gland is large, flabhy, and very vascular. This form of the disorder is seen chiefly in persons who have died from fever or pneumonia, or pleurisy, or in children with symptoms of affection of the brain. 2. In one variety next to be mentioned, the kidneys are large, soft, and flaccid; and when the tunic is stripped, the exterior sur- face, though less deep in colour, is still more irregular than in the last mentioned variety. The colour, indeed, begins to assume a gray or fawn tint, the brown being less deep, and giving place to chestnut-brown or yellowish-brown. The irregular appearance on the surface is produced by numerous depressions with alternate elevations. In the last case, the depressions are so few in number that they leave between them considerable smooth spaces of the outer surface of the kidney. But in this variety the spaces between the depressions are so small, and the depressions are so numerous, that the whole outer surface appears to consist of manifold alternate pits and elevations. These pits are remarkable for containing little clusters of red vessels. Sometimes, if the surface be attentively inspected by the eye, and always by the aid of the microscope, minute gray-coloured bodies like grains may be recognized depo- sited in the cortical substance, decidedly differing from the latter m the lighter colour which they present. Upon dividing such a kidney as this by a longitudinal section, the change in structure is still more conspicuous. The cortical portion has throughout be- come of a lighter colour than natural, and is generally some shade of orange, fawn, or yellow. Thus it may be buflf-orange, which is a light stone colour, or reddish orange,—a salmon red tint, or deep reddish orange, or it may vary between these and honey-yel- low, sienna-yellow, or ochre-yellow. When inspected carefully, even by a good practised eye, and much more by the aid of a glass of moderate magnifying powers, this change in colour may be traced to innumerable little granular bodies, infiltrated, as it were, or de- posited in the cortical substance, varying in size from the point to the head of a pin. These bodies consist of the epithelial cells of the tubuli infiltrated with fat, and the tubuli themselves infiltrated with albuminous deposit. The cortical or secreting matter of the kidney has then in general lost most of its peculiar striated arrange- ment; and presents the appearance of reddish orange, or honey yellow, or fawn-coloured matter, enclosing the tubular cones and