979 DISPOSITION OF THE AIR-CELLS IN THE LUNGS. When a thin section of inflated and dried lung is placed under the microscope, a number of large well-defined oval foramina, with a sharp delicate edge, is seen thickly distributed among the cells. These foramina are portions of lobular passages. They are smaller near the pleura and surface of the lung than in the in- terior of the organ. When mercury is poured into the lungs of a rabbit which have been macerated, so as to expel the air, it gets into the air-tubes, and appears at the surface of some in the form of globules, at that of others as beaded and nodulated branches, which, according to Mr Addison, combine the character of cells and passages. The membrane of these air-cells, when examined by the micro- scope, does not form round or even rounded cells, but flat mem- branous plates, circumscribing polyhedral spaces. They present ovate bodies as part of tbeir structure. They possess an epithelium m the form of large, round, nucleated scales, in each of which from one to fifteen or more nuclei may be counted. Mr Addison found, like Magendie, the cells in early life small, and in old age large. At the age of 45, they vary from to juo part of one inch in diameter.* The correctness of these statements has on the whole been con- firmed by the researches of Mr George Rainey. Mr Rainey finds that when the bronchial tubes have arrived at about one-eighth of one inch from the surface of the lung, the membrane teiminates abruptly; that the passages conveying the * On the Ultimate Distribution of the Air-Passages and the Air-Cells of the Lungs By William Addison, Esq. F. L. S., &c. Read 7th April 1842. Philosophical Trans- actions, London, 1842. On the use of the term vesicle, Mr Addison pronounces a criticism which partakes more of boldness than wisdom or knowledge. “ Anatomical writers,” says Mr Addi- son, “ generally use the terms air-vesicles and air-cells synonymously, so that they are convertible terms ; but, strictly speaking, an air-vesicle is an air-bubble, and may exist either in or out of a pulmonary air-cell.”—Phil. Trans, vol. for 1848, p. 158. It is rather the term vesicles than air-vesicles, that anatomical writers use'as syno- nymous with that of air-cells. By what means Mr Addison has arrived at the inference that vesicle means air-bubble, I know not. But, with deference to Mr Addison he will find that all the anatomical writers who have spoken of these bodies-Malpighi Senac, Winslow, Haller, and Soemmering-employ the term in its original accep- tation, that is, a small vesica, or bladder, or small membranous bag or cell The words of Soemmering are ; “Pulmonum substantia parvis ccllulis, vcsiculis, vel sacculis aero plems conflatur. Plures ejusmodi vesical® in acervuloscongeruntur.” Tomus sextus * xxi._The idea that the word vcsicula is ever used to signify an air-bubble is a mo- dem invention, not sanctioned by classical use. Bulla is the word used.