SKIN. 519 redness, hardness, and elevation ; the slow progress and sometimes tedious suppuration; and lastly, the loss ot corial substance, aie the circumstances which indicate the peculiar seat of this form of cutaneous inflammation. Into the pathological characters of the individual pustular in- flammations, the limits of this treatise do not permit me to enter. On one or two of them, however, I shall offer a few remarks, which may tend to illustrate the general nature of cutaneous pustular in- flammation. I begin with small-pox as one of the most interest- ing. a. From Dominico Cottugni we learn that it was the opinion of Astruc, that the poisonous matter of small-pox (venenum variolaru>n) affects particularly and exclusively the mucous body (corpus muco- sum), which Malpighi describes between the skin and cuticle, and that it was the property of this poison to induce in it the peculiar variolous inflammation. This opinion appears to Cottugni to be correct, because it is confirmed by dissections made by him of the incipient and complete small pox pustule. These dissections, Cot- tugni states, showed the incipient pustule to consist of the raised cuticle without affection of the substance of the corion; that this elevation of the cuticle was occasioned by the intermediate mucous body (corpus mucosum) being expanded like jelly, without separa- tion of parts or intervening cavity; and that such separation and cavity could be perceived only when the pustule was completed. Variolous pustules, he then asserts, are of two kinds, the umbilicate or depressed, and the vesicular or crystalline. The umbilicate are those, the apex of which is, from the very beginning, flattened or truncated, and which are rather lenticular than conical, as most pustules, except the variolous, are. This shape they retain until in the course of inflammation they grow to their full size, which may equal or exceed that of a lentil either on the eighth or ninth days, or on the tenth and eleventh. The cause of this depressed figure is the navel (umbilicus) in the centre of the pock, which is at first like an indistinct point, but afterwards, as the pock grows, becomes more elevated, with a flatter figure. From this central point or navel he represents all the actions of the pock, inflammation, sup- puration, and drying or scabbing to proceed. For while it, as a seat of the poison, remains fixed, the surrounding part, not of skin, but of mucous body, is raised into an inflammatory ring or mound, which prevents the morbid action from spreading. In the conflu-