MORBID STATES OP THE LUNGS.—TUBERCLES. 1013 by which lymph is effused into the canal of the vessel which unites its walls and renders its trunk impervious; that the vasa vasorum may not be so much affected by this inflammation, as to interrupt their circulation, and may continue, consequently, to nourish the obliterated trunk, which then forms the septum of Laennec, and the trabecula of Schroeder; but that in those instances in which these nutrient vessels have become involved in the inflammation and obstructed, the trunk becomes black, dies, and is dissolved in the general suppurative destruction of the tubercular mass. The state of the lymphatic vessels it is extremely difficult to dis- tinguish in the lungs; and though M. Schroeder injected with mercury in lungs affected with vomicae, some lymphatic vessels of the pulmonic pleura, yet he never found any one of them penetrat- ing the substance of the lung. Subsequently, however, in the sound lung, he succeeded not only in injecting with mercury the lymphatics of the whole surface of the lung (the pulmonic pleura. 1 presume), but traced several branches into the pulmonic paren- chyma so distinctly, that he was satisfied that the lymphatics en- compassed the lobules like meshes of net-work ; and further traced to a small black tubercle in the surface of the lung, not far from the windpipe several lymphatic vessels, which partly penetrated the tubercle, and partly poured mercury into it. From this circum- stance, and from the analogous one, that tubercles in this situation often contain calcareous matter, M. Schroeder thinks it not un- unlikely, that the calcareous tubercles are the result of degenera- tion of the lymphatic vessels or glands. It appears that the nervous filaments terminate with the vessels at the margin of the vomica, so that they appear to have been con- verted into a species of cartilage or tough cellular tissue. In one case described by this author, the nervous branches were reddened and thickened, numerous vessels being brought into view upon them by means of injection. Like Mr Swan, M. Schroeder saw in phthisical persons the pneuraogastric nerve reddened and thick- ened ; but in other cases he admits that he found it quite unchano- ed, so that he is averse to make any positive conclusion. Before proceeding to describe the state of the other respiratory and circulating organs, and that of the intestinal canal, it is pro- per to consider here the mode in which these tubercular masses are formed, their nature, their progress and progressive changes, and their termination.