GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. || Engravings, &c. If Med.-Chir. Trans. Vol. i. art. 9. G70 christ,* Dessault,f Baillie,} Fr. Aug. Walter,§ Charles Bell,|| Forster,^ and other authors, who found the mucous coat thicken- ed and indurated like cartilage, and the cavity much contracted. It is at the same time generally sacculated. Another form of inflammatory thickening, causing diminished area of mucous canals, is that which takes place in chronic en- largement of the mucous glands. The best example of this is ob- served in the enlargement of the mucous follicles of the cardia, which is no uncommon cause of stricture of the cardiac orifice of the oesophagus. This inflammation is very difficult of resolution, and too often terminates in ulceration of the membrane and the glands. 4. Adhesion.—It was asserted by Bichat and others, that mucous membrane does not effuse lymph or contract adhesions. The ac- curacy of this conclusion, which evidently arose from opinions too generalized on the properties of this tissue, the nature of lymph, and the final causes or rather purposes of morbid action, is ques- tionable, and the inference requires limitation. Independent of the well known experiment of John Hunter, who, by the use of a very irritating injection, produced a secretion of coagulable lymph in the vagina of an ass;—I have already shown that each of the mucous surfaces, under certain states and forms of inflammatory action, may effuse a fluid containing a large proportion of albumen, and which, neither in chemical properties nor pathological relations, can be distinguished from the albuminous exudation of serous membranes. The question of adhesion, however, depends not so much upon the fact of albuminous exudation as upon the anato- mical disposition of the cavity or canal, whether it be sufficiently small to favour the mutual approximation of opposite and corre- sponding surfaces. Thus in the gastro-intestinal membraue, which is in general capacious and distended, either incessantly or fre- quently with foreign bodies, mutual approximation is too imperfect i to admit of adhesion. Yet by some observers this is asserted to have happened. In situations, on the contrary, in which mucous surfaces line narrow tubes, as the lacrymal duct, the .Eustachian tube, the urethra, and perhaps the Fallopian tubes, obliteration of the canal by adhesion of its sides is more frequent. It is certain * Essays, Physical and Literary, Vol. iii. -f Journal de Chirurgie. + Engravings, &c. 7th Fascicul. pi. I. fig. 2d. § Einige Krankheitcn der Nieren und Ilarnblase, u. s. w. p. 31. Tafel. ix.