GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 324 diminished in volume, no longer falls under the fingers, but is torn with difficulty, and recoils with elasticity when stretched. It as- sumes a horny hardness under the action of fire or nitrous acid. These circumstances show that it contains altered albuminous mat- ter. The gray matter also is thinner and paler than natural, and seems to be confounded with the white. The effects observed, to accompany this change are defect and progressive loss of memory, inattention to momentary impressions, apathetic indifference to the present and the future, and slight diffi- culty of articulation, followed by abolition of appetites, desires, and ideas, increased loss of speech, palsy, or at least want of command over the muscles, fatuity, wasting, and death. That this change in the consistence of the brain is the residt of a slow organic process succeeding to inflammation, M. Pinel infers from the symptoms during life, from the collateral effects after death, and from the state of the meningeal and cerebral vessels which is known to precede the change. That this is not remote from the truth many circumstances tend to show. I have above mentioned the relation between hemorrhagic injection of the brain and induration as noticed by M. Serres and Bouillaud. A proof still more unequivocal is found in the fact, that inflammation, both in the membranes and in the cerebral substances, is known to be followed by induration of the latter. Thus Abraham Kaawe Boer- haave mentions the case of a soldier cut off by an epileptic at- tack, in the head of whom, besides firm adhesion of the dura mater to the inner table and the pia mater, with tubercular deposition, the subjacent convoluted gray substance was hard and scirrhous in various places.* The cheese-like induration recorded by Lalle- mand in the thirtieth case of his second letter is adduced elsewhere. Here, however, I may mention, that in a man of 55, in whom fixed pain of the forehead, slight palsy of the face, and contusion of me- mory were soon followed by death, he found the membranes firmly matted together for the extent of a thirty sous piece at the outerf end of the left hemisphere, and the subjacent cerebral matter, also adhering to the membranes, hardened to scirrhous or cartilaginous firmness. Lastly, M. Bouillaud records a case, in which a man ot 68, who, * Commentani de Rebus in Scientia Naturali, Vol. i. Pars i. p. 23-1. -)- Recherches Anatomico-Pathologiqucs sur l’Enccphale et ces dependances, par F. Lallemand. Paris, 1820, p. 313. 4