722 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. tion thus established gives a sudden check to the normal action of the vessels; and as the formation of the brain is thus interrupted, the individual is born anencephalous. The same process taking place in the vertebral portion of the membrane during the early months of foetal life, causing at once serous effusion, interruption to the growth of the chord, and arresting that of the spinal plates, and their mutual union, constitutes spina bifida. The influence of acute meningitis in deranging the mental facul- ties, though questioned by Bayle, appears to me undoubted, for the following reasons. l.szf, In several cases of the disease taking place in adults, and in which its nature was confirmed by accurate inspection, I have re- marked the same confusion of thought, incapacity of judgment, and incoherence of speech as in the maniacal. In general, in this de- lirium gay and pleasurable ideas predominate. In the most dis- tinct of these cases, to which I have already alluded, the nature of the disease was unequivocally demonstrated, not only by the fluid of the ventricles, but by the vascularity of the pia mater and plexus, subarachnoid infiltration, dulness of the arachnoid, and albuminous exudation from the free surface of that membrane. '2d, In seve- ral cases of the disease occurring in infants, without proving im- mediately fatal, I have traced to this cause a degree of idiocy which was supposed to be congenital. This idiocy is in many cases asso- ciated with deafness, dumbness, or both, sometimes with squinting, and sometimes with amaurotic blindness. Upon inquiry, it always appeared that the infant had undergone soon after birth an anoma- lous and little understood disorder, after which, hearing and sight seemed much impaired, and the vivacity of the infantile age was not observed. Inspection at a subsequent period demonstrated the nature of the affection. Symptomatic meningeal inflammation, or rather congestion, I have formerly said, takes place in fever continued, intermittent, and remittent, after injuries of the head, and occasionally in other diseases. From the appearances of a considerable number of cases of the ordinary continued fever of this country, which since the beginning of 1817 I have inspected personally, or have seen inspected, I in- fer that subacute congestion of the cerebral membranes is one of the most frequent phenomena of that disease, and one which very often contributes to its fatal termination. I have elsewhere at- tempted to show, however, that this is not the cause of fever; and