GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 900 colour of the face and skin generally, which is so characte- ristic, that, though not strongly marked, if once or twice seen, it can rarely be mistaken. It has often appeared to me also, that the perspiration of patients with this disease has a peculiar odour. All perspire during the night or towards morning with a peculiar unctuous discharge. The urine contains no bile ; but it is scanty, deep-coloured, contains a large proportion of urea, and deposits a sediment of urate of ammonia. At length fluid is accumulated within the abdomen ; and the strength is still more completely impaired. Death occasionally takes place by coma, the bile not being elimi- nated, and acting as a poison. Kirrhosis may be complicated with abscess of the liver.* § 12. Steatosis. Pimelosis. Fatty Degeneration.—Though the liver even in the human body, in its healthy state, contains in its cells some oily matter, which may be obtained from it by various means, yet in ordinary circumstances this is so small, that it has been generally overlooked. On the other hand this element, if element it be, is liable to be augmented to so great an extent, that it is infiltrated interstitially into the acini and around them, and constitutes a peculiar morbid state, to which the name of fatty liver has been applied. A liver in this state is very generally larger and heavier than in the healthy state, sometimes amounting to double the weight, or 7, 8, or 9 pounds. It may, nevertheless, be not above 4% or 5 pounds. When large, it may be felt during life in the form of a large, prominent, but smooth tumour, under the margin of the right hypochondre, which it raises, filling the epigastric region, which is rendered prominent and full, and extending somewhat into the left hypochondriac region. All over this space the tumour emits a dull sound on percussion, but feels not unusually hard. The fatty liver generally covers the stomach and transverse arch of the colon, and descending about three inches below the margin of the hypochondre, and spreading beyond the median line, appears prominent and conspicuous, concealing all the viscera in the epi- gastric region. The enlargement usually affects the whole gland. A liver in this'state, when first exposed, is of a pale orange, or reddish yellow colour, or yellowish marbled, some parts being deeper and others lighter coloured. These colours are dispersed in patches, various in size, over the liver. The surface is smooth, * Case by Dr H. Beer in Ocsterreiehische Mediz. Wochenschrift. 1843. N.