442 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the other interior, free, and, so far as can be determined of a body so minute, resembling a close sac. The development and growth of the teeth is a process of much interest. At what time the first rudiments of teeth appear seems not to be determined with accuracy. In the foetus, between the seventh and eighth month, I can merely distinguish in the centre of the vascular membrane of the alveolar cavity a minute firm body like a seed. I have, however, seen the crowns of teeth formed in foetuses, which I have reason to believe had not attained the seventh month. But whatever may be the exact period, the process is nearly as follows. As the bones of the upper and lower jaw are in the process of formation between the third and fifth months,* cavities at their lower and upper margins are gradually formed by the growth of the osseous plates, which afterwards form the alveoli. As these cavities are formed, they are lined by a large, soft, membranous, vascular sac, which, in the manner of a serous membrane, consists of two divisions, one lining the alveolus, the other folded within that, and forming a closed cavity. In the inside of this cavity the process of dentition commences some time between the fifth and seventh month, by the deposition of matter from the vessels at the lowest point of the alveolar division of the sac. This matter is to constitute the crown of the tooth, which is invariably formed first. After the deposition of the first portions, these are pushed upwards by the addition of successive layers below them, and necessarily . carry the inflected part of the sac before them. As this process of deposition advances, the tooth gradually fills the sac, and rises till it reaches the level of the alveolar margins. If a tooth be examined in situ, near the period of birth, it is found to consist of the crown, with portions of enamel descending on every side, and forming a cavity in which a cluster of blood-vessels, proceeding from the sac, is lodged. After the enamel has been deposited the bone begins to be formed; and as this process advances, the tooth is still forcibly thrust upwards by the addition of matter to its root. When the latter is well completed, the vessels become smaller and less abun- dant; until, when the tooth is perfect, they shrink to a mere mem- brane, which lines the cavity of the tooth, and still maintains its * Fourth anil Fifth, Bichat, p. 93, Tome iii.