GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 912 arrangement like vascularity or proofs of organization. Examined very minutely they present the appearance of infinitely minute granules aggregated together. The sections occasionally present an appearance of fibrous radiation very much like that of the ra- diated zeolite; the fibrous lines diverging and radiating either from one or two points towards the periphery of the tumour, or from a line passing through the middle or centre of the tumour. In some instances the colour of these tumours internally is of a drab-gray, or fawn, or giraffe tint. But the consistence and phy- sical characters are the same. In general these moderately sized masses are pretty firm, softer than the unboiled potato, but firmer than lard, something like new cheese of moderate firmness, but less tough and more friable. In another variety this deposit may appear in the form of irre- gularly spherical, spheroidal, or ovoidal masses, varying from the size of a filbert to that of a walnut or small egg, yet softer and more elastic than those last described, and presenting at the surface more or less vascularity, and not unfrequently with some vessels ramified through their substance. The aspect of these is in some instances like a smooth strawberry or raspberry. Tumours of this character proceed early to the formation of fun- gous growths, which discharge blood freely and often. Some ob- servers deny that this is a softening process. The consistence of these tumours is generally about that of brain, pulpy, soft, and compressible; and in several parts they may be more pulpy than in others. Cruveilhier distinguishes this variety into two subspecies accord- ing to their less or greater degree of vascularity. For this dis- tinction there may be some foundation; but, if we consider that a degree of vascularity is the general attribute of this form, it seems unnecessarily to multiply subdivision, to derive the characters from differences in degree only. If a stream of water be directed on tumours of this species, the soft pulpy matter is washed away, and nothing is left hut a cellulo- vascular frame-work. These reddish rasp-like bodies are found both at the surface and in the substance of the liver. They are in general formed in a short time, like all the varieties of encephaloid disease; but they are peculiar in proceeding rapidly to the formation of bleeding funeri.