962 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. . wasted. The kidney, at least its cortical portion, is, in short, in a state of atrophy. Secondly; when Nephropyema proceeds to a great extreme causing distension of the calyces and extenuation of the whole cor- tical portion of the kidney, it may happen that the greater part of the matter is discharged either through the ureter and bladder, or by a new opening formed into the transverse arch of the colon, through that bowel, or even externally; part is removed by ab- sorption ; and the purulent inflammation of the calycine membrane ceases. As these processes advance, the distended and attenuated residue of the kidney contracts; the calyces contract, and some may be united by mutual adhesion of their walls and membrane. Eventually the whole residual portion of the kidney is contracted and shrunk into a small, flattened, shapeless body, not larger than a dried fig; and when divided, it is difficult to recognize in the remains the vestiges of the original structure. The ureter alone remains, to prove the fact that this body represents all that was a kidney. The pelvis sometimes is left in a contracted form : and not unusually the pelvis and ureter are obstructed and con- verted into a solid chord. Some small traces of one or two calyces remain ; but in general the tubular portion of the kidney is gone, and the cortical is either very much shrunk, or so changed, that its characteristic structure can no longer be recognized. This is atro- phy of the kidney after Nephropyema. The lesion is not common; for the disease of which it is the se- quela is usually fatal. I have nevertheless seen three examples of it; the preparation of one of which is preserved in the collection of the University.* Job A. Meek’ren records three instances of it, in one of which the right kidney was so destroyed, that it is stated to have been wanting.f I have already shortly noticed a case which occurred to Chomel.J § 13. Hypertrophy.—The kidney may be enlarged in all its dimensions without serious change in its intimate structure. In the most usual case, that of atrophy of one kidney after Nephropyema, . or any similar form of destruction, the opposite kidney is always ■ * Notice of a case of Cyanosis or the Blue Disease, with mutual adhesion of the se- f, milunar valves of the Pulmonary Artery. By David Craigie, M. D. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. lx. Case I. 23. 2G8. Edinburgh, 1843. -j- Jobi A. Meekren, Observationes Medico-Chirurgicaj. Amstelodami, 1682. Cap. 3.0, 40, and 44. + P. 945.