91 ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. It is doubtless true that these changes in the valves may be re- garded as effects and examples of misnutrition, (paratrophia,.) This, however, would not alter much the essential merits of the question ; for most instances of misnutrition are accompanied with marks of chronic inflammation, and one of the leading characters of chronic inflammation may be said to be the derangement in the nutrition of the parts which it attacks. It must be allowed also that often the changes take place insidiously and in an impercep- tible manner. The most decided evidence, however, as to the cause of these changes being inflammation or not is found in the examination of the changes themselves. In the semilunar aortic valves they are as follow. 1. The valves may be mutually adherent by their edges; that is, two valves may adhere; or the whole three may be mutually adhe- rent. In other instances two valves only may adhere; and the coalescence may be so perfect that there shall appear to be only two semilunar valves instead of three. When all the three adhere they produce very great occlusion of the orifice of the aorta. In one case which I knew well, the aperture scarcely admitted a silver catheter of calibre No. 10. 2. The semilunar valves may be, without mutual accretion, ri- gid, firm, and immovable, or at least not readily movable. This state is manifestly caused partly by deposition on their upper and under surface, partly by thickening of their substance. In general this deposit and thickening is greatest at the attached margin of the valves. They are at the same time shrivelled or drawn irre- gularly from the free margin to the attached. In this state the blood regurgitates from the aorta into the left ventricle. 3. The whole surface and margins of the valves may be covered by small tubercular bodies, varying in size, like pin-heads, or split vetches, and sometimes irregular on the apices like warts. The valves are thickened and rendered rigid and shrivelled. If these be not the effects of chronic inflammation, they are products of mis- nutrition. They are deposited at first as lymph. 4. I have seen the following state of the semilunar valves. The whole three valves were thickened, stiffened, and indurated; and their surfaces were covered with a scries or crop of hair-like or bristly processes, growing from the attached margin and both sur- faces of the valves, and projecting into the area of the artery, not unlike a hair-like fringe. It seems difficult to understand the for-