GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 358 the rncso-lobe,jforai.r and septum lucidum. Red observed the want of this part in an idiotic female who had attained the age of thirty years. Independently or along with the meso-lobe and fornix, the upper region of the hemispheres may be wanting as far as the ceiling of the ventricles. But it is difficult to distinguish the atrophy of this part from atrophy of the convoluted surface of the brain. Atrophy may next affect the corpora striata or optic thalami, in the form of diminished hulk and general dimensions, proceeding to such extent that these bodies may he altogether wanting. The same lesion may occur in the cerebellum, the annular pro- tuberance, or in the peduncles and the spinal bulb. The spinal chord or vertebral portion of the brain is in like manner liable to atrophy, both during the process of development and after its completion. In the first case the chord is entirely or partially wanting, and its place is supplied by serous fluid, more or less copious, contained within the membranes. Thus in many cases of spina bifida, as it is denominated, that disease is the effect of some interruption given to the process of growth in the spinal marrow, by reason of which the arterial action is expended in the effusion of fluid, which fills and distends the membranes, prevents the further deposition of cerebi’al matter, and preventing also the union of the spinal plates on the mesial plane, gives rise to a soft elastic tumour at the most yielding and dependent part of the spinal column. In general the spinal marrow is either partially or entirely wanting in some part of its course in cases of this kind. Its continuity is interrupted either without a single trace, or with a few streaks of cerebral matter on the one side, or at the anterior part of the column, while the vacancy is supplied by serous fluid or shreds of cerebral matter. In other instances of this species of atrophy, each lateral half of the chord is in a very slender and imperfect form of development, and is separated from that of the opposite side by the interposition of serous fluid. In cases of this kind, it is not uncommon to find the median canal persistent long after birth, imitating in this respect the structure observed in the spinal chord of the lower animals. It may be doubted whether it be quite correct to apply the term atrophy to those lesions of the spinal chord, in which the breaking down, the softening or shrinking of the parts, is evidently due to in- flammatory action excited in them from disease of the membranous investments or the bones. Thus, in cases of disease of the vertebra, 3