GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 594 Of this'case it is a circumstance not the least remarkable, that decided abatement in the symptoms took place in June 1843, and temporary recovery continued during autumn and winter, while the nail was still fixed in the bronchial tubes. § 4. Emphysema of the lungs as a result of bronchitis.—Though this probably should be placed under the head of diseases of the sub- stance of the lungs, yet it may maintain the anatomical connection more closely by considering it here. In the early stage, indeed, of bronchitis, there is simply a diffuse or spreading inflammation or congestion of the pulmonary mucous membrane; and after it has subsided under proper treatment, that membrane, both where it lines the bronchial tubes and pulmonary vesicles, sooner or later returns to its natural condition ; while the calibre of these tubes, and the capacity of the vesicles, is little or not at all lessened. Either, however, after repeated attacks or long continuance of this disease, not only does the inflammatory process extend from the mucous membrane to the submucous or pulmonary filamentous tissue, but by its long endurance it renders the former thick, villous, and brownish-coloured, secreting either much viscid mucus, or mucus more or less tinged with blood, and even occasion- ally pure blood, and indurates and solidifies the latter by the extra- vasation of albuminous fluid ; while the increased thickness of the membrane, and the swelling of the submucous tissue, encroach so much upon the area of the bronchial tubes and vesicles, as to dimi- nish remarkably the capacity of these cavities. This swelling, however, of the pulmonary mucous membrane and filamentous tissue, is not general over the whole of the tubes, nor even over the whole of one tube, otherwise it would produce fatal asphyxia. But it in general takes place at certain spots in the course of the tubes more remarkably than at others, producing a species of stricture of one or more bronchial tubes in one or both lungs. The effect of this again is various, according to its degree, and according to the component systems and textures of the lung most affected. One of the most frequent effects of the presence of one of these constricted portions, especially if the membrane secretes much viscid mucus, which requires to be frequently coughed up, is to obstruct the passage so much that expiration becomes either in- adequate or is interrupted. As respiration consists, therefore, in alternate inspiration and expiration, if air has been either inhaled by this tube, or by some of the communicating ones, it cannot, dur-