270 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. globules being most numerous, of a large proportion of the gela- tinous, elastic, viscid substance, and a yellowish fluid resembling the serum of the blood, probably albuminous. In the white mat- ter, on the contrary, the large globules (^o of an inch) predomi- nate ; the connecting jelly is more tenacious, but less abundant in proportion to the globules; and the latter are more distinctly ar- ranged in rows, so as to constitute fibres. The mesolobe contains the greatest quantity of the small glo- bules (2Yo<5 of an inch ;) and the viscid jelly is said to be at least equal to the globules in quantity. In the limbs of the brain and peduncles of the cerebellum, the jelly is said to be in greater pro- portion than the globules. The annular protuberance is chiefly composed of globules of the average size (32505) with abundant vis- cid matter. In the restiform processes, the pyramidal bodies, and the olivary eminences, the fibrous structure consists chiefly of the large globules, with abundant viscid jelly, which is rapidly soluble in water.* When the brain by immersion in alcohol is hardened, the elastic jelly is coagulated and rendered opaque, and the appearance of globules is lost.*f* These observations partly verify those of Della Torre, partly ex- plain those of Prochaska. They show, that, so far as the micro- scope can be trusted, the globules of which cerebral matter consists vary in size and proportion in different parts; and that the white' cerebral matter generally consists of larger globules, or at least contains a larger proportion of these globules than the gray. The obsei’vations by Ehrenberg in 1833j; on this subject next deserve attention. This observer, by using the compound microscope, found the fol- lowing forms of organic structure in the brain and nerves :— 1. A substance consisting partly of very minute fine grains, with some coarser grained matter, disseminated, as is said in the lan- guage of mineralogy, through the fine-grained matter. The latter is entirely confined to the gray matter of the convoluted surface of the brain, and the laminated surface of the cerebellum. * The Croonian Lecture. Microscopical Observations on the Brain, &c. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V. P. R. S. Philosophical Transactions, 1821, Part i. v. p. 2.5. The Croonian Lecture. On the Internal Structure of the Human Brain, Ac. By Sir Everard Home, Bart., V. P. Philosophical Transactions, 1824, p. 3. + Ehrenberg employed a microscope manufactured by Chevalier of Paris, and aug- mented in Power by Pistor and Schick of Berlin ; and the powers varied from 260 to 360 diameters.