CEREBRAL SEROUS MEMBRANE—PHTHISICAL DELIRIUM. 723 though the cause of many of its symptoms, especially the confused thought and incoherent speech, that it is one only of an extensive and general morbid state of the capillary system induced by the action of fever. It may nevertheless occasionally amount to in- flammation. With the admission of the facts now stated, further, it must be remembered, that the main cause of the symptoms of headach, de- lirium, convulsions, and stupor during life, and of the appearances after death, is the circulation in the vessels of the brain of blood not oxygenated, blood containing much carbonaceous matter, and several elements which in the state of health are expelled; blood, in short, poisoned by the operation of fever, of whatever type. § 6. Delirium in the Phthisical not an instance of Metastasis.— Subacute meningeal inflammation I haveseen take place in the phthi- sical during the last days or weeks of existence. Upon examining the brains of persons of this description who have had delirium for some time before death, the pia mater and choroid plexus are more or less sometimes highly injected; the arachnoid is dull, opaque, and lustreless; the subarachnoid tissue is infiltrated, especially in the vicinity of the vessels; and serum is effused in the ventricles. In an extreme case of this nature, which occurred under the care of Dr Renton, and in which the patient had delirium amounting to mania for three weeks previous to death, I found among other le- sions, the whole pia mater most extensively injected, and its minute vessels of a scarlet-red colour, while the large vessels were filled with dark blood. The scarlet-coloured capillaries were distinct and abundant at the convoluted surface, and in particular at the base of the brain, and in the portion which covers the outer surface of the hippocampus major. The arachnoid was dull, opaque, and elevated by subserous infiltration. At the timer margins of the hemisphere, in the neighbourhood of the falx, the arachnoid of the pia mater adhered to that of the dura mater with albuminous effu- sion ; and pisiform or lenticular eminences like those described by Greding and others were found proceeding from the pia mater. The choroid plexus was also injected; and serum to the amount of about one ouuce 01 ten drachms was found in the ventricles. The substance of the convoluted or gray matter of the brain was extensively traversed by reddish vessels, in ' which the blood was still fluid. § 7. Inflammation of the Choroid Plexus or central Pia Mater. —This lesion, though rare, is observed occasionally to take place.