INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. OOl domen, which was swelled and painful at certain parts, became dis- tended, and gave evident proofs of the presence o ui . r a terson, under whose care the patient was, tiied 01 some time a means of producing the absorption of this fluid, and otherwise re- moving the disease on which it depended. Little or no effect, how- ever, was produced, either by aperients, diuretics, or local appli- cations. Dr Paterson requested me to see her, to consider t le propriety of relieving the distension and other suffeiings o t le pa tient, by the operation of parakentesis. At this time the abdomen was greatly enlarged, especially towards the mfra-umbilical re- gion, where it emitted a dull sound, and gave distinct evidence of fluctuation. When the patient was placed in the supine positron, there was something peculiar in the abdomen, as if the intestinal folds were more consistent than natural, and adhered in certain points. When pressure was applied slowly and carried steadily downwards, so as to urge the intestines towards the spine and pos- terior region of the abdomen, the patient gave manifest indications of pain. ° She also described her feelings as if something were tied round the bowels. It w7as clear, nevertheless, that there was no adhesion between the abdominal parietes and the intestinal pei ito- nseum ; for there the abdominal fluid was interposed. After careful consideration of the case, it was agreed, that, as no medicinal agent had hitherto made any decided impression on the abdominal swelling or the contained fluid, it was desirable to empty the abdomen by operation, and then try the effect of remedies. The operation was accordingly performed, and about nineteen or twenty pints of serous and sero-purulent fluid withdrawn. The operation was well borne; and the patient was replaced in bed. The wound healed in a few days, and the patient seemed to recover from the immediate effects of the operation. But in the course of a few days vomiting came on and death ensued. Inspection disclosed the following appearances. In the lumbar and iliac fossae and in the pelvis there was some sero-purulent fluid, with a few albuminous flakes. A little accu- mulation had taken place since the operation. The omentum was drawn up and shrivelled, though thickened. All the folds of the ileum, which came into view, adhered to each other intimately by albuminous exudation, so that not one portion of the ileum could be said to be in its natural free position. Even some of the lower parts of the jejunum adhered in this manner. The tunics of the ileum were thickened, indurated, and in certain