GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 516 It must not be understood that vaccine fluid when applied to the human body ever produces a general eruptive disease like itself over the person. This, indeed, was believed to be the case at first by Jenner, Pearson, Woodville, and perhaps some others. But more correct knowledge of the history of the disease shows, that its action is confined in the human body to the identical spots, to which it is applied; that these, and these only, become the seat of genuine vaccine inflammation , and, that whatever eruptions or other morbid changes in the skin succeed, or have been said to succeed, the com- munication of cow-pox to the human body, are not the result of its genuine or proper action. It is strictly and truly a local morbid process. The history above given of the progress and characters of the vaccine vesicle, shows clearly that the application of the vaccine fluid, under proper conditions, is succeeded by a local inflamma- tion of the corion, which observes a definite progress, divisible into two stages. In the first of these stages, which may be termed the primary or immediate, the inflammatory process is confined with great accuracy to the cuticular surface of the corion, and, diffusing itself very uniformly from the point of insertion at equal distances in every direction, terminates in effusion of lymph or sero-albumi- nous fluid, and elevation of the cuticle. During the first stage, which lasts about seven or eight days, the minute cells are formed. They appear to consist in separate points of inflammation, at which the corial vessels discharge, as in other examples of the inflamma- tory process, sero-albuminous fluid, which is soon coagulated in a definite form. The coagulated portions form the partitions of the cells, within which the fluid part is contained. The appearance of the red ring, (areola), which takes place about the eighth day, indi- cates the commencement of the secondary inflammation. This con- sists in the action being propagated to the substance of the corion, which is effected to some depth in the formation of puriform or pu- rulent matter, and in destruction of part of its tissue. The subse- quent phenomena and effects are easily understood. It is a remarkable property of cow-pock inflammation, that it modifies considerably not only the variolous inflammation, but that produced by itself. The second application of the vaccine lymph in a person who has previously undergone this disease, produces a smaller vesicle of the same characters, but less intensely marked. If the application be made while the first is still in progress, and before its areola has appeared, it produces a vesicle which runs its