MORBID STATES OF OTHER ORGANS IN CONSUMPTION. 1029 Among 102 cases examined by Louis, ulcers of the epiglottis were found in eighteen cases (one-sixth), ulcers of the larynx in twenty- two cases (one-fifth), and ulcers of the trachea in thirty-one cases (one-third). Most of the ulcers of the epiglottis are confined to the lower or laryngeal surface of that cartilage. The ulcers are generally small, one, two, or three lines in diameter. They are more common in males than in females. The most frequent seat of ulcers of the larynx is the junction of the vocal chords; then the vocal chords themselves, especially their posterior part; and lastly, the base of the arytenoid cartilages; the upper part of the larynx, and the interior of the ventricles. In some rare cases one or more of the vocal chords are denuded or destroyed, and the base of the arytenoid cartilages exposed. Ulcers of the trachea, sometimes very large, are found chiefly in the posterior or fleshy part of the canal, and are attended with a led colour, more or less deep, of the contiguous mucous membrane, and some softening and thickening. In rare cases, the ulceration spieadsso much as to denude or destroy more or less completely several of the cartilaginous rings; and in that case the ulcerated ends of the rings give the margins of the ulcer a peculiar, irregu- lar, and denticulated appearance. The only general result that can be established regarding the heart is, that it is rendered smaller and softer than usual, or is atrophied. Mi Abernethy found that, in severe cases of pulmonary con- sumption, in which the lungs were much occupied by tubercular masses, by injecting the arteries and veins of the heart, the injec- tion readily flowed into the chambers of the organ, and that the left ventricle was first and most completely filled. He found that the channels of this injection were the foramina Thebesii, which though in the natural state few and small, becomes numerous and large m disease of the lungs, especially tubercular induration w ich impedes the circulation of the pulmonary artery, and thereby distends and gorges the right chambers of the heart. Mr Aber- nethy also found the foramen ovale more or less open in the hearts of persons destroyed by pulmonary consumption.* In about fiom one-tenth to one-fifth of cases of consumption, the p 0,1 ,ilC Foram!™ Thebem of the Heart. F.K.K Phil. Trans. 17.08. Part I. p. lo. By John Abernethy,