0JZ GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. advanced, however, the cough returned in a more violent form; and in the spring of 1844, in March, symptoms of another attack of ca- tarrh appeared. At first the usual remedial means were employed. But the cough became daily more urgent, rending, and frequent; the rauco-purulent expectoration with the night sweats returned ; the pulse was never below 120; the flesh was wasting fast; and, in short, the patient was again rapidly returning to his state in May 1843. At this time the respiration was 36 in the minute, with almost no motion of the right side; the mammary region emitted a dull sound, and was visibly flattened and depressed; the voice was re- sonant ; and the cardiac beats were clearly and distinctly heard all over the mammary region before, and the scapular region behind. Little respiration was audible, and only now and then a slight rattle. About one inch below the right collar-bone, extending downwards about three inches; and from one inch from the sternum to the outer margin of the large pectoral muscle before, little or no natu- ral respiration was heard. The same phenomena were recognized behind. When inspiration was observed, it appeared that the air never penetrated further down than half an inch, or three-fourths of one inch below the right collar-bone, and about the same corre- sponding point behind. Respiration was performed mostly by the diaphragm. On the other hand, over the whole of the left side respiration was clear and good; and though there were rattles in several points, they indicated nothing very bad. I was satisfied at this time, March 1844, that there had been pleu- risy with considerable effusion ; pneumonia with consolidation ; and bronchitis, but of what nature it was not easy to say. From the recurrence of the symptoms, it seemed probable that the lungs were tuberculated; and although there was no distinct evidence of any vomica, or excavated part, the sounds heard led me to think that almost no respiration was performed by the upper and middle lobes of the right lung. Treatment was resumed, very much of the same kind as before, regulating the diet as carefully as possible. The symptoms proceed- ed, being sometimes more intense, sometimes alleviated, but never disappearing. At length, after a long, violent, and distressing fit of coughing on the morning of the 10th March 1844, the patient coughed up an iron screw nail, about three-fifths or three-fourths of one inch long, with a head with very sharp edges, covered with