27 FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. vicinity of the capsule of Glisson, the serum occasionally presents a considerable proportion of bile. It is then of a pale green colour; and on the addition of hydrochloric acid, it undergoes immediate coagulation, with the formation of a bright grass-green precipitate. 6. Urea is found in the blood in instances of granular disease of the kidney, and those cerebral and urinary affections in which the secretion of the kidneys is suspended or suppressed. It may be de- tached from the serum by treating the latter with nitric acid, when crystals of nitrate of urea are found. 7. Purulent matter is found in the blood in certain diseases in which suppuration is going on at the internal surface of a membrane or in the interior of an organ. The most usual preceding state, however, is inflammation and suppuration of a vein or veins, and the secondary effects thence resulting, especially suppuration with- in one of the joints. If the blood in cases of this kind be inspect- ed under the microscrope, it is observed to present globules of puru- lent matter. In certain forms of disease of the spleen, purulent matter is found mixed with the blood in the veins after death, to which this state leads. B. Of chyle and lymph the morbid states are too little known to speak of them with certainty. C. Of the morbid changes of bile also very little is known. During the process of digestion it is decomposed; at least in the healthy state it is never seen pure in the intestinal discharges. The bile is liable to be formed into concretions or gall-stones, varying in size. When small these are numerous; when large there may be only one or at most two. A large sized gall-stone is one that is one inch or more in diameter. These bodies consist of inspissated bile, cholesterine, and colouring matter. I). The morbid states of the urine are manifold. They may he referred to the following heads. 1. Increase in the proportion of nitrogenous matter, c. cj. urea increased in quantity generally with formation of uric acid ; 2. Diminished cohesion of elements of urea; 3. Increase in saline matter; and 4. By the presence of new sub- stances, as albumen, purulent matter, sugar, &c. 1. The first and most usual is excess of urea, generally with uric acid. The urine, if allowed to evaporate in a watch-glass, one or two drops of nitric acid having been previously poured on it, pre- sents in no long time crystals of nitrate of urea. At the same time uric acid is usually deposited from the urine. 3. Another form of disorder consists in the formation of urate of