166 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. blood of the lungs in successive acts of the function of respiration. If it be so mixed, it must be circulated with the circulating blood, and in this manner distributed through the whole vascular system to every organ of the body. In doing so, however, this poisonous material must have so altered the blood in the lungs, as to produce in that blood and in these organs a more decided effect than else- where. The shock first inflicted on the blood in these organs ap- pears, it is natural to think, the great cause of the loss of coagu- lating power and the impaired arterialization. We know that one of the great uses of the lung next to, or along with the arteriali- zation of the blood, is to maintain the coagulating power, and to restore it when impaired. It is, therefore, natural to infer, that when the coagulating power is diminished, it depends on some im- pediment to the function of respiration, and that when the function of respiration is imperfectly performed, that should evince its effects in a diminished proportion of coagulating power. If these views be well founded, it follows, that, when the blood thus altered is circulated, however imperfectly, it must operate hurtfully on the organs to which it is transmitted. It must act, in truth, as a poison ; and many of the phenomena of fever are similar, certainly, to the effects of poison, especially a poison at first irritant, and then sedative and narcotic. This appears to be the mode in which, towards the latter stage of fever, its cause acts on the brain and spinal marrow. 7. Hemorrhage. In all cases of Hemorrhage, whether by rup- ture or by exhalation, the capillaries are unusually loaded with blood. This is established by the appearance of the brain in apo- plexy, of the lung in hemoptysis, (pulmonary apoplexy of Laennec,) pneumonorrhagia of Frank and Latour, of the prostate gland in chronic enlargement, (Home,) and the state of the mucous surfaces in general. In the two first cases, especially in that of the lungs, the pulmonic capillaries are large, numerous, and distended with blood, the pulmonic tissue more or less injected and firm, and blood is found oozing from the surface of the bronchial membrane. (Stark and Laennec.) With this, however, is conjoined a friable or la- cerable and imbrowned state of the bronchial membrane and pul- monic tissue. 8. Excess of Nutrition. (Hypertrophia.) Hypertrophic aug- mentation. That every unusual increase in the size of parts is to be ascribed to the agency of the capillaries is well established by