318 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. tained the fourteenth or fifteenth year. In three cases of infants cut off by different acute diseases, between the ages of 20 months and 2A- years, I found the brain soft, compressible, elastic, but not tough; of the consistence of custard-pudding; but not quite so firm as to bear much handling or stretching without being broken or torn. In several cases of children dead between the 7th and the 11th year of scarlet-fever or measles, the brain was firmer, and had acquired greater tenacity, but was still considerably softer and less tough than the brains of adults who had attained the 18th, 20th, or 22d year. Between 12 and 15 the brain in general acquires a decided degree of firmness and tenacity; for, though still highly elastic, it is much less compressible, and much more distensible without laceration than before. This increase of firmness and te- nacity is particularly conspicuous in the twainband and mesolobe, in the limbs, in the optic thalamus, in the annular protuberance, and in the olivary eminences. It is impossible to say when the organ may be said to attain its maximum of firmness. But after the 22d year I have not been able, in a very considerable number of human brains, to recognize much variation of consistence not connected with some morbid state, either of the system at large, or of the or- gan itself. In extreme old age, it has been said the brain generally becomes firmer, harder, and drier than in the meridian of life. This, I be- lieve, is not altogether without foundation; though it is doubtful how far this is to be regarded as a uniform change, independent of disease or morbid effects. It is further exceedingly difficult to de- fine the time at which this change in the consistence of the brain commences or is accomplished. In persons between 50 and 60, I have seen the brain as firm as in others between 70 and 80, or above that age. Conversely, the brain is found sometimes soft, even in persons much advanced in life. The brain of the adult is liable to lose its normal consistence, and become preternaturally soft in chronic diseases of emaciation, as dropsy, pulmonary consumption, and other pulmonary disorders, mesenteric wasting, marasmus, diabetes, and organic diseases in general. The diminished consistence now remarked is most fre- quently observed in dropsy, diabetes, and pulmonary disorders. In the first the brain is almost invariably soft and flaccid through- out. It cannot sustain itself, but falls down much more quickly than in the natural state. It is not easily cut, but rather gives