86 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. (Jordan,* * * §) (Le Grand,f) (Nixon,ij:) (Craigie,§) (Eichler and Ro- mer,||) (Tiedemann,1T) ; and a ligature has been put on its abdominal portion, (Cooper.) To ascertain the several modes in which arteries terminate has been a problem of much interest to the physiologist, and of no small difficulty to the anatomist. The alleged terminations as be- lieved to be established, are minutely and elaborately enumerated by Haller, who, however, multiplied them too much according to the modern acceptation of the term. 1. The first undoubted termination of arteries is immediately in veins. It is unnecessary to adduce in support of this fact the long list of observers enumerated by Haller. It is sufficient to say that it was clearly established by the microscopical observations of Leu- wenhoeck, Cowper, and Baker, by Haller himself, and by Spal- lanzani in his beautiful experiments on the circulation of the blood. 2. The second termination which may be mentioned here is that into the colourless artery, (arteria non rubra.) This is sufficiently well established by the phenomena of injections. 3. A third termination which is supposed to exist, but of which no sensible proofs can be given, is that into colourless vessels sup- posed to open by minute orifices on various membranous surfaces, and therefore termed exhalants. The nature of these vessels shall be considered afterwards. Haller admits a termination in, or communication with lympha- tic vessels, but allows that it is highly problematical. Partial com- munications have been traced between arteries and lymphatics by several anatomists; but the point requires to be again submitted to accurate researches. * A Case of Obliteration of the Aorta. By Joseph Jordan, Esq., Surgeon to the Lock Hospital, Manchester. The North of England Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. I. London, 1830-31. P. 101. f Du Retrecissement de l’Aorta: Du Diagnostic et du Traitement de cette Ma- ladic, &c. Par le Docteur a Le Grand. Paris, 1832. 8vo. Pp. 58. $ Case of Constriction of the Aorta, with Disease of its Valves, &c. By R. L. Nixon, Surgeon. Dublin Medical Journal, Vol. V. p. 386. Dublin, 1834. § Instance of Obliteration of the Aorta beyond the Arch, illustrated by similar Cases and Observations. By David Craigie, M. D., Physician to the Royal Infirmary. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. LV1. p. 427. || Eichler und Romcr in Mcdicinische Ialirbucher dcs Ostcrreichischen Staats, 1830. B. XXIX. N. 2, S. 200. ^ Friedrich Tiedemann, Von der Verengung und Schliessung der Pulsadern in Krankheiten, Heidelberg, und Leipzig, 1843. Fall 9.