ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 107 so much obstructed, as to impede much the motion of the blood through it. The obstruction is caused not only by atheromatous and steatomatous growths adhering to the artery, but by deposits of blood and lymph or fibrin adhering to the internal surface of the vessel previously diseased, niost commonly in a state of ulceration. The obstruction may be partial, and confined to one side of the vessel; or it may be general, extending nearly all round, but not thoroughly closing the canal of the vessel; or it may be complete, closing altogether the tube and preventing the blood from flowing along it. Partial obstruction is mostly seen in large vessels, as the aorta, the innominata, the thoracic and abdominal aorta, or in the com- mon iliacs, or the common carotid, or the subclavian artery. General obstruction also occurs in these'vessels though more rarely ; and is usually in vessels belonging to the third class, which are of smaller size. Partial and general obstruction mostly takes place either in consequence of steatomatous deposits in the interior of the artery, or the deposition of blood and lymph in the progressive changes which occur in aneurismal tumours, which pressing more or less completely on the part of the artery on which they take place, retard or interrupt the flow of blood through, cause thus the formation of clots, and thereby tend to diminish much the calibre of the arterial cylinder. Complete obstruction to the interior of an artery may take place under the same circumstances as partial and general obstruction. That is, the blood and lymph deposited in an aneurismal tumour and within the arterial canal above it, may be so arranged as to compress the vessel and interrupt or obstruct entirely the course of the blood through the artery. Such was the case in the instance recorded by Larcheus, which I have elsewhere described ;* in that published by Dr Crampton, and that by Dr Monro. In cases of this nature, one of two effects may ensue. First, the artery dis- tended with blood, which is allowed neither to flow through the trunk nor to escape by collateral branches, may burst, and the ac- cident may prove fatal. This is by far the most common termina- tion when the arterial canal is so much obstructed. Thus I have seen the abdominal aorta burst above an aneurismal tumour, and Instance of Obliteration of the Aorta beyond the Arch. Illustrated by similar Cases and Observations. By David Craigie, M. D., &c. Edin. Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. LVI. p. 427.