SEROUS MEMBRANE.—PURULENT SECRETION. 703 form of the inflammatory process. These variations may be refer- red generally to two heads, puriform and serous secretions. The varieties of puriform secretion may be classed under the heads of sero-purulent, puriform, and purulent. The sero-purulent is often connected with the albuminous, from which it is separated during the process of coagulation. It consists chiefly of serous fluid with minute granules of albuminous matter, which subside to the bottom and leave the supernatant liquor like whey or chalk-water. It always contains flakes of lymph. It takes place in pleuritic and peritoneal inflammation, acute and chronic, and is generally found in the dependent part of the cavity, e. g. in the posterior part of the chest, and in the lumbar and hypogastric fossce in the peritonaeum. The puriform fluid of serous membranes consists of serous fluid, with an opaque and thicker matter not coagulable in mass blended with it more equably than in the last case. The granular matter is less abundant or entirely wanting; and the opaque milky fluid is not so easily separable as in the sero-purulent fluid. Though it is often associated with the albuminous, and contains flakes of lymph, yet, as little lymph is found on the surface of the membranes, and as the quantity of the latter is often in the inverse ratio of the quan- tity of puriform fluid, it may be regarded as less nearly allied to the pure albuminous inflammation than the sero-purulent. Both are to be regarded as abortive efforts to effect albuminous exudation. The puriform secretion occurs in all the serous membranes, but is most frequent in the peritonaeum. It is in particular very com- mon in that form of peritoneal inflammation which occurs in the persons of women in childbed; and Hunter, who was aware of the fact, states it as an instance of the combination of the adhesive with the suppurative, inflammation,—a circumstance to which he ascribes the unfavourable issue of such cases.* It is occasionally the com- bination, and sometimes the substitution of the suppurative for the adhesive process. This is amply confirmed by the necroscopic ap- pearances of peritoneal inflammation in puerperal females, in which every shade of morbid effusion is seen, from albuminous lymph with separation of proper serous fluid, to puriform or purulent col- lection. 1 runtive the«UPPuratl™ Wlth the adhesive, or the hurrying on of the sup- with the' r rq,r y Seen V abdomen of women have been attacked became fhT f* child-birth, and which, from these circumstances Became the cause of their death.”—On the Blood, Acc.