886 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the liver, however, is always preceded and accompanied with a greatly deranged condition of the vascular system of the stomach, duodenum, and whole intestinal canal. In this disease the gall-bladder usually contains thin watery bile ; the surface is more or less tinged yellow; and the intestinal dis- charges are light coloured. A state of anaemia with ascites follows. § 9. Atrophy.—The term Atrophy of the Liver has been ap- plied to more than one state of that organ ; certainly to two at least. The first is a state of diminished size, with contraction, as it were, of the parenchyma in all directions, from the periphery to the sinus of the vessels, and often mostly in the left lobe, sometimes with persistence of its parenchyma, though diminished in volume, sometimes with the disappearance of the red, vascular, or acinoid tissue of the gland, and the substitution of a whitish dense tissue, which is manifestly the cellular substance of the gland. The second consists in diminished volume also of the organ, but with more or less induration, and a granular or tubercular appearance of the liver; in short, one of the forms of kirrhosis. Thirdly, I have mentioned an instance in which the whole gland, but especially the right lobe, was shrunk and contracted to about one-third, or be- tween that and one-fourth of its usual size, in connection with an obstructed state of the portal vein. It is not easy to say, in the present state of our knowledge, to which of these states the term Atrophy ought to be confined. One point is clear, that the name includes, according to present usage, several morbid states of the liver, which are in all probability dif- ferent, and proceed from different causes. It is clear that the con- tracted state of the liver in hirrliosis ought not to be regarded as an instance of atrophy, though part of the hepatic tissue in that dis- ease is atrophied. The shrunk and contracted state of the gland in that affection is secondary and consecutive. That there are cases in which the glandular matter of the liver is diminished or atrophied must be allowed, from such cases as that given by Andral, part v. livr. ii. chap. iii. section ii. obs. 12. § 10. Moschatismus Jecoris.—In certain circumstances, the liver, when divided, presents on the surface of the sections a mot- tled or party-coloured aspect of brown-coloured spots, set in a lighter coloured basis, so as to lesemble the section of the nutmeg. It is very doubtful whether this appearance indicates any change in structure. The dark-coloured spots appear to be merely sections of granules or lobules which have been largely injected with blood,