557 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. But the lower part of the small intestine, and what is named ileum, is provided with two sets of follicles, one solitary ((/l. solitaries), or consisting of single isolated follicles, the other aggregated or associ- ated (glandules agminatee,) so as to form a patch, plexus, or cluster. The solitary glands begin to appear about four or five feet above the lower end of the ileum. They are not always very distinct or visible. When they are, they are disseminated like minute grains through the mucous corion at irregular intervals. They are often, nevertheless, less conspicuous at the lower end of the ileum than a little higher up. The aggregated glands begin to appear in the ileum about from four to six feet from its lower end. From the point where they commence showing themselves, they are invariably disposed along the antimesenteric side of the bowel, or that which is opposite to the mesenteric attachment. They appear in the form of patches, sometimes affecting the circular shape, sometimes irregular, most frequently elliptical, with 'the long diameter corresponding to the axis of the bowel. In size they vary according to the number of integral follicles of which each patch consists. High up in the ileum they are often small, that is, not larger than a silver four-penny piece. But lower down they become larger and affect more decid- edly the elliptical figure. They are also closer to each other to- ward the lower portion of the bowel than at its upper part. These elliptical patches consist of a great number of follicles or crypts placed contiguous to each other. The number varies from perhaps 20 or 30 to 50, 60, or more. Each isolated component follicle is a small body with a pore or orifice issuing from its centre; and each follicle consists, so far as can be at present determined, of a peculiar sort of dense matter, which I think is merely a species of close filamento-cellular tissue, through which are distributed many minute arteries and veins. In colour, these patches are usually of a darker tint than the surrounding mucous membrane, mostly of a leaden gray, or slate- blue shade; and when viewed by transmitted light, they are like a dark or opake patch on the more translucent intestine. This, I think, depends on the greater aggregation of their constituent tissue. Most usually they are, in the natural state, on a level with the surface of the adjoining portion of intestine. They are not very