GASTRIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE—CHRONIC ULCER, 609 with occasional points of ulceration round or oblong form, from one to several lines in diameter. The colour of the membrane is at the same time reddish, or reddish gray, always thickened, and generally softened, and covered with much viscid mucous. This granular state of the mucous membrane is most frequent in the large curvature, and the parts adjoining to the anterior and poste- rior surfaces, at the pyloric extremity, the small curvature, and the great cul de sac, the whole extent of which, however, is rarely af- fected.* The granular eminences appear to be swellings of the mucous glands, which are most abundant in the situations in which it is seen. c. Gasteria Diuturna, Gasterici ulcerans, Gasteria Helkosis.— Chronic inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane is much more frequent than is imagined. The process is in general con- fined to one or two small spots, which are slightly red, often brown or reddish brown, rough, villous, and firmer than natural. Of these appearances the most constant is the rough villous aspect and firm consistence, which are at once recognized by drawing the finger over the part. The inflammation does not spread, but gradually penetrates to the submucous filamentous tissue which is exposed, and terminates in the formation of an ulcer or ulcers of the mucous membrane. The most usual appearance of these ulcers is that of depressed breaches in the continuity of the mucous membrane, with a rough, brown-coloured surface, variable in size, but generally small, af- fecting an irregularly round or oval shape, sometimes angular, and with edges smooth, but sharp and accurately marked. This cha- racter, which is that of a piece of the membrane completely cut or scooped out, is certainly derived from the peculiar properties of the mucous corion, which seems in ulceration to undergo a gradual process of absorption. When the first minute percep- tible point of ulceration is formed, the edges are destroyed or absorbed in the same gradual manner, and thus the ulcer is en- i larged. The edges are in general some shade of crimson or reddish brown, owing to injected capillaries of the corion ; but in other in- stances the colour does not differ from that of the adjoining surface. Many of the examples of this lesion have been described as in- stances of rupture or perforation of the stomach; and hence it is not easy to ascertain the exact state of the villous membrane in the * Louis, Recherches Anatomico-Patliologiques sur la Phthiaie. Paris, 1825, Q q