GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 828 thinks, that they may be formed in the carunculci lacryrnalis; and he believes that they are formed also in the puncta, the canal, and sac. This seems very doubtful as a general inference. These con- cretions appear generally at the outer angle of the orbit; and it is most likely, that they are most commonly formed in the ducts and orifices of the lacrymal gland, or near this situation. Sandifort, however, found concretions in the lacrymal canal; and Desmarres records the circumstances of a case in which, in a gouty female of 66, he found a lacrymal concretion impacted in the lacrymal sac of the right side. Manifest swelling was formed over the inner angle of the right eye. The patient had suffered for two years from lacrymation, and latterly a discharge of matter from the eye. The lower punctum was enlarged to three times its normal size. In the course of the lower lacrymal duct there was a small, prominent, circumscribed, indolent, and colourless swell- ing. By means of a probe, Desmarres recognized the presence of a solid body. He then introduced a grooved probe, and, dividing the integuments down to the canal, he extracted a hard, yellowish, pea-like body. The wound was healed in 24 days.* On the frequency of the occurrence of concretions in the lacry- mal sac evidence is divided. While some authors, as Nicolai and Waldeck, consider the lacrymal sac as the most usual place for the formation of lacrymal concretions, others, viz. Walther, maintain that they are never found in this receptacle. That this is a mis- take is evident from cases recorded by Le Dran, Schmucker, Kri- mer, Cunier, Stievenart, Thibou, and Maunoir. Cunier, in particular, gives the details of two cases, one in a man, of 58, another in one of 63, in which concretions were found in this situation,! and which seem to leave no doubt ot the fact. Lacrymal concretions of the largest size are observed in the nasal duct; because in the cavity of this canal there is most space for their growth and enlargement with least inconvenience. Of this three examples arc recorded; two in the observations of Dr Kersten, and one by Horn in Schmuckcr’s Miscellaneous Writ- ings. It may be observed that though these concretions occur some- times in young persons, yet in general their subjects are of middle age or up in years, and persons who have suffered from gout and * Annales d’Oculiste. Paris, 1842. f Observations pour servir a l’histoire ties Calculs Laerymales. Bruxelles, 1842.