45 FILAMENTOUS OR CELLULAR TISSUE. when cut communicates the sensation as if it were like collared brawn. From the sections slowly oozes a reddish serous fluid, which coagulates quickly; and in the tissue itself may be observed grayish or yellowish granules, which give the brawny aspect and sensation already mentioned. (Leger.) The greatest firmness and induration are generally remarked in the outer region of the legs, and in the dorsal region of the foot and hand; and this gives the members the air of a peculiar twist or distortion. The adipose membrane appears to be not much less the seat of this disease than the filamentous tissue. The bodies of infants cut off by this disease arc small, being of the medium height of seventeen inches; and all the organs are im- perfectly developed. Thus the lungs are hard, marbled, uncrepi- tating, and sink in water; the windpipe is small, and the alimen- tary canal is shorter than usual in healthy infants of the same age. The heart, however, is large, and generally contains blood in clots. The foramen ovale is often open, and the arterial duct is never closed. The pericardium, and frequently the cavities of the serous membranes, contain more or less serous fluid. The nature of this morbid change is unknown. The old notion of Uzembezius revived by Andry and Auvity, that it was occasion- ed by coagulation of the fluids frozen by extreme cold, is com- pletely contradicted by the fact recorded by Leger, that among for- ty-four infants dead during the month of June 1823 in the Found- ling Hospital of Paris, twenty-one were cut off by induration of the cellular tissue. The notion of Alard, that it is allied with the glandular disease of Barbadoes, scarcely deserves mention. On the contrary, its early occurrence after birth, the imperfect deve- lopement of the several organs, especially of the lungs, its occa- sional appearance previous to birth, and its frequency among infants born before the full time, (Palletta,) show that it bears some rela- tion to the foetal mode of existence. The peculiar nature of the fi- lamentous tissue in the foetus and in the new-born infant may have some influence in the production of this malady. 6. Serous infiltration, (oedema, anasarca.) Under the operation of various causes, as exposure to cold, the use of mercury, inflamma- tion, or injury, the quantity of serous fluid in the filamentous tissue may be considerably increased; and this increase gives rise to a pale, white, or wan-coloured and cold swelling of the skin, which is dis- tinguished by receiving the impression of the finger or any other sub-