MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS TUBERCLES. 1011 tilaginous, of a bluish or dirty gray colour, and when closely in- spected, consist of granular bodies, various in size, from a millet- seed to a small pea, closely aggregated together, and mutually pressing each other. In various points are observed portions of whitish or grayish coloured viscid semifluid matter, which when removed are observed to be contained in small cavities. Such masses cannot be said to be homogeneous. Though invariably much more firm and incompressible than the surrounding lung, and than healthy lung, they consist of portions of different degrees of consistence, and of different colour. To the masses and their component parts, the name of tubercles is indiscriminately applied. It would be more correct if the denomination of tubercle were con- fined to one or the other, especially to the smaller component por- tions ; in which case the large masses might be denominated tubercular. The tubercular masses, as thus described, may occupy the supe- rior and middle parts of the lungs, leaving very little of the sound lung intermediate between them. Lower down, and especially in the lower lobe, they are less extensively diffused, and smaller in size, so that portions of the lung are unoccupied by them. In general, also, they are more abundant at the posterior than at the anterior part of the lungs. Tubercular masses vary in size, and may be distinguished in this respect into small, middle-sized, and large. The small masses are those about the size of garden peas, or small beans; the middle-sized are those about the size of a filbert, or small goose- berry, and all those above this may be designated as large. In general, when they have attained the latter dimensions, they’have either become partially softened, or they have begun to soften. Though the tubercular masses vary in size, their component Par18,. V1Z- the minute tubercles, are generally about the same magnitude. These are commonly about the size of a millet-seed or a little larger; but in general the whole of the interior of a tubercular mass presents in the advanced stage such a confused massif morbid texture, that it is impossible then to recognize the individual tubercles, or distinguish them from each other and the whole mass. It is only by examining tuberculated lungs in the early stage, and before the disease has proceeded far, that it is possible to form an accurate notion of the characters of a tubercu- Jated mass.