461 BONE. The recently repaired bone was of a very blood-red colour, spongy, crowded everywhere by certain smooth nodes, and slightly bent to the outer or fibular side. It was a white, almost cartila- ginous substance, yet sufficiently strong, which Palletta thinks must have become firmer in time. The periosteum was not thicker than natural. It could be drawn from the recent bone, and ap- peared merely laid over it. The bony matter proceeded from both extremities of the tibia to mutual contact. Yet the meeting portions did not coalesce, but were united as it were by intermediate cartilage.* Scarpa, who adopts this doctrine, maintains, that what is com- monly regarded as new bone, is the old cortex or compact tissue expanded and relaxed; that this, by a great effort of nature, is every- where enlarged and becomes spongy; that growing inwardly it re- pairs the loss of the marrow, and swelling outwardly increases the walls of the bony tube ; that hence the old bone is enclosed, as it were, in a sheath, which, though at first spongy, soft, and flexible, becomes hard by the gradual reception of earthy particles, and at length becomes entirely like the old bone. Scarpa, in short, first assumes or maintains in the living tex- tures a vital property which he calls the expanding faculty. He then maintains on the strength of cases of nekrosis and various experiments, that no reproduction of bone takes place except from callus produced from ossific fluid, not secreted from the perios- teum or the cellular tissue in the medullary membrane, but elabo- rated by the intimate structure of the bone, and which is effused sometimes between the ends of the broken or excised bone, some- times exudes from the external surface of bones, and being har- dened in both situations, assumes the bony organic character.! It must be admitted that the hypothesis of Troja and Weid- mann labours under certain difficulties; and in exposing these difficulties and the objections to which they give rise, Scarpa has been more successful than in establishing his own hypothesis, which is exposed also to difficulties perhaps still more insur- * Exercitationes Pathologic®, Auctore Joanne Baptista Palletta. Mediolani, 1820. 4to, p. 28. f De Anatome et Pathologia Ossium, Auctore Antonio Scarpa. Turin, 18°7 n 82-87-96. Verum idcirco, et unicum organon elaborationis, et aecrctionis succi ossifici est os ipsum ; neque aliunde quam ex uni versa ossea com page, sive laxa ea sit et reticulata, Hive dura et compacla, liquor ille glutinosus plasticus, fila trahens, cxtillat, qui cum in centro fiactune, turn in marginibus, turn in extima fracti ossis superficie olt'usus, cogetur in exiguas rubras carunculas, dein in majora carni similia tubercula, demum in carti- laginem, postremo in os commutatur et calli nomine venit, p. 104, 105.