212 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. observed to attack the lymphatic vessels of the womb in puerperal fever, and then it too often proceeds to suppuration. The uterine lymphatics are then seen extending over the surface of the organ jointed and knotted, and distinctly presenting purulent matter in their interior, and sometimes along their exterior. Tonelle found among 222 fatal cases of puerperal fever, that in 32 purulent mat- ter was contained in the lymphatics.* This shows that in about one-seventh of the cases of puerperal fever, inflammation and sup- puration of the lymphatics may take place. This doctrine has been forcibly illustrated by Cruveilhier.f Inflammation of lymphatic vessels may almost invariably be traced to irritation, or an irritating cause at their organic extremities. Thus a sore in the finger or hand, whitloe, or other inflamed states of the fingers, are often attended with painful red streaks or lines, extending up the arm to the arm-pit. These red streaks indicate inflammation of the subcutaneous lymphatics. In like manner I have seen a blister applied to the surface of the belly cause inflam- mation of the lymphatics leading to the inguinal glands. The inflammation when not violent terminates in resolution. In more severe cases it may cause effusion of lymph into the cavity of the vessel, so as to effect adhesion and obliterate its canal. This was probably the cause of the obstruction which Mascagni states he found in the lymphatics of several subjects after the use of blis- ters. Suppuration, as a consequence of inflammation of lympha- tics, is little known. 2. Wounds of lymphatics must occur frequently. In truth, scarcely an incision dividing the skin and cellular membrane can fail to involve several lymphatics, and every deep incision divides many of them. J They appear to unite easily. Is the cavity obli- terated ? The frequent anastomoses render this event of no con- sequence. Hewson observed that in several instances lymphy coa- gulable fliaid continued to ooze from the wounded vessel for days. 3. Cirsus (K/gtfog) or Varicose Dilatation. This name is applied by Meckel to denote a dilated state of lymphatics similar to varix in veins. Schreger and Tilesius delineate what they conceive to be varix in the lymphatics of the conjunctiva ; Mascagni repre- * Des Fievres Puerpcrales observecs a la Matemite de Paris pendant l'annee 182!). Par M. Tonelld, Archives Generates. XXII. p. 345. + Anatomie Pathologique. ± Monro in Edin. Medical Essays, Vol. V. Art. xxvii.