MORBID STATES OF OTHER ORGANS IN CONSUMPTION. 1031 sence of ulcers, which are formed in from eight-elevenths to seven- ninths, or about nine-twelfths. They may be large, middle-sized, or small. The most common situations are the caecum, the ascend- ing colon, the transverse arch, and the rectum, in the order now specified. When the caecum is affected, the ulceration is often ex- tensive, being associated with ulcers or ulceration of the lower end of the ileum, the ileo-caecal valve, which is often stripped of its mu- cous membrane, or altogether destroyed, and over the whole inner surface of the caecum. In the ascending colon and transverse arch, the ulcers present the appearance of broad flattish patches, the largest diameter being across the intestine, the converse of what is observed in the ileum. These ulcers may commence in the mucous follicles of the colon ; but they eventually pass to the mucous mem- brane in general. Tubercular granulations are found in the colon in a smaller proportion of cases. Of these ulcers or ulcerated patches it is a pretty general result, that, as they destroy the mucous membrane, and advance through the subjacent coats to the peritoneum, they cause in the latter in- flammation in minute isolated points or spots, followed by effusion of albuminous fluid, which coagulates and adheres in an equal number of minute points, opaque, elevated, and generally isolated, but touching each other, so as to form a rough patch, circular or oval in shape. In this state, these small whitish opaque bodies pre- sent the appearance of tubercular specks, and are hence called by many authors tubercles of the peritonaeum. Whatever be the name applied to them, they are formed in the mode now mentioned. The final cause of this peritoneal inflammation is to counteract ulcerative perforation, and to thicken and strengthen the bowel. In some rare cases, however, this object is defeated, and the ulcer- ation destroys all the textures, and the peritoneum suddenly gives way, allowing the escape of air and the intestinal contents into the abdomen, and causing sudden fatal peritonitis. This accident is, however, not very common. One example only have I met with among nearly one hundred instances of fatal consumption. In other instances, eflusion of sero-purulent or purulent fluid is found in the peritoneum, and soft coagulable lymph between the intestinal folds, showing that it must have' been inflamed during life. In the bodies ot the phthisical the liver is very generally in a