160 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. is heard, and a gurgling movement is felt beneath the fingers, as if produced by air and liquid moving within the intestine. These symp- toms continue the greater part of the duration of the fever; and though they are abated by local depletion, by means of leeches and the use of laxative medicines, they do not disappear until the fever itself either abates or altogether retires. The portal vein constitutes, among the vessels of the digestive organs, a secondary capillary system, in which the blood is not less accumulated than in the primary one. It may be thought, that, as the blood is accumulated in the first, it ought not so readily to find its way into the trunk, branches, and ramifications of the second. But this objection will vanish, when it is remembered that at the same time both the primary and the secondary system of capillaries become overloaded. This state of the capillaries of the portal and hepatic system is established by the appearance of the liver in per- sons cut off by fever. The spleen may suffer so much from this capillary distension as to resemble a mass of clotted blood without trace of organization. This morbid and extraordinary distension of the primary and secondary capillary systems of the chylopoietic organs, though dis- tinct enough in the fevers of temperate countries, is most conspicu- ously demonstrated in the agues and remittents of warm climates, and especially in the severe and exquisite form termed yellow fever. In the former great sickness and epigastric tenderness, with more or less vomiting, are frequent, and in the latter constant symptoms. The vomiting, nevertheless, is not bilious, as has been too generally imagined. It is at the commencement always a watery fluid, evi- dently derived from the capillaries of the gastric, and perhaps the duodenal mucous membrane. (Dr John Hunter, Jackson, &c.) After some time it begins to be mixed with bile, expressed in all probability from the gall-bladder by the pressure of the stomach in the act of vomiting. A much more uniform occurrence, however, if the disease does not subside spontaneously, or is checked by art, is the gradual admixture of blood somewhat darkened with the wa- tery fluid. This blood issues from the capillaries of the gastric and intestinal tissues by a process analogous to exhalation in the sound state, but differing in so far as in the capillaries, from which it pro- ceeds, a degree of disorganization has taken place. As the blood escapes into the cavity of the canal originally not highly scarlet, it is rapidly blackened by the action of the carbonic acid and sulphu-