GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 154 which it ceases spontaneously. It takes place under circumstances in which it is requisite to remove some part of a texture which is either unsound, or has become foreign to the system, as in the case of dead bones, mortified sloughs, or to procure an outlet for some morbid fluid, as is seen in deep purulent collections, or to expel a foreign body from a situation in which its presence is injurious. Hence it has been justly remarked by Hunter, that every process of ulceration is preceded by adhesive inflammation at one or more points, sometimes round the whole line along which the ulcerating process takes place. The object of this is to prevent hemorrhage by the closure of vessels, and to prevent the diffusion of purulent fluid in situations where its presence would be injurious. In se- veral situations, however, it fails to accomplish this purpose. When the ulcerative process has effected the object for which it was commenced, a new mode of action takes place. The vessels begin to deposit lymph in rounded masses, which become vascular, and all the phenomena of granulation succeed. In such circum- stances, are we to suppose that the absorbing process has given way to that of deposition,—the action of veins and lymphatics to that of minute arteries ? In certain situations, this process of deposition may be observed going on in one part of a sore, while that of removal, destruction, or absorption is proceeding in another. Thus in an eschar occa- sioned by a burn, or by cautery, actual or potential, while the pro- cess of ulceration is detaching the margin of the slough, a crop of granulations may be observed rising with equal rapidity and stea- diness, and pushing off, as it were, the dead substance. The phe- nomena of these and similar processes present objections to the theory of Hunter. e. Softening (Malctcismus ; Enallaxis ; Sphacelismus ;) or pre- ternatural diminution of consistence, is an effect of inflammation, which in different tissues is liableTo ensue. The tissues in which it is most frequent are the brain, spinal chord or nerves, the lungs, the uterus, and the bones. It consists in the more or less com- plete separation of the component atoms of these tissues, whether fibrous, globular, or amorphous, by the destruction or dissolution of their filamentous tissue, and occasionally, if not constantly, with the substitution of serous, sero-albuminous, sero-sanguiue, or sero- purulent fluid. The characteristic organization of the tissue is, in- deed more or less completely destroyed. Its elasticity and te-