315 BRAIN. In the dorsal region it induces convulsive throes of the trunk, palsy of the intercostal muscles, with short, languid, diaphragmatic respiration, palpitation, and irregular throbbing ol the heart, hiccup, squeamishness, vomiting, and eventually death, partly by impaired respiration, partly by failure of the action of the heart. In the lumbar region, palsy of the lower extremities is always a prominent symptom; but to this are added paralytic retention of urine at first, afterwards incontinence and involuntary voiding of the contents of the rectum. (3. The transverse diameter of the chord is so small, that in ge- neral the capillary injection and its consequences are not confined to one side only. When this happens, however, which is rare, it produces hemiparaplegia, or palsy of the lower extremity of one side. Though this has been so frequently observed to occur on the same side with the lesion of the chord, that it may he stated as a general result, it is nevertheless requisite to mention, that to Portal we are indebted for a singular case, in which capillary in- jection and pulpy destruction of the right side of the lumbar divi- sion of the chord, gave rise to palsy of the left inferior extremity.* 7. To the autero-posterior diameter of the chord the same ob- servations nearly apply; and it is rare to find the anterior part diseased without affection of the posterior, and conversely. In- stances of this, nevertheless, have been observed ; and it is inte- resting to remark, that the effects which respectively result from lesion of either singly, tended to confirm those inferences which Charles Bell and Magendie have drawn regarding the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Thus when the anterior part of the chord is affected without the posterior, the effect is loss of muscular power more or less complete, while sensation remains. Conversely, when the posterior part of the chord is injured without the anterior, sensation is more or less obliterated, while voluntary motion is little affected. Thus in a case recorded by Dr Jones, vascular injection of the posterior surface of the chord impaired sensation remarkably, but left motion little affected. | In like manner, in a case communicated by Royer-Collard to Ollivier, (Obs. 47, p. 334,) pulpy destruction of th6 anterior part of the chord, from the restiformand olivary eminences, down to the lum- * Anatomie Medical, Tome IV. p. 116. + Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. XXI. p. f>l, 63.