BRAIN. 311 organ most frequently affected is confirmed by cases given by Petit; by several of those given in the Essay of M. de la Peyro- nie* * * § by Antonio Caldani; by Morgagni in repeated observations both of paralytic cases terminating in coma, and of those originally apoplectic, accompanied with distinct palsy ; (Epist. xl. 2, 4, 6, 11 ; li. 12 ; lxii. 7, 9;) by three cases given by Procbaska ;f by Cheyne, by Roehoux, by Lallemand, by Tacheron, (26, 27, 28, 29, 30,) and by Abercrombie, (p. 252, cases 112, 113, 114, 115.) On this point, however, the remarks already made on the seat of cerebral hemorrhage are applicable. Though the striated nu- cleus and the contiguous part of the hemisphere forming the outer and upper walls of the capsule, are the most frequent seat of he- morrhagic cavities and pulpy destruction, other parts of the brain are not exempt. In the work of Dr Abercrombie are given cases in which the diseased spot was nearer the surface of the organ. (Ill, 116, 117, 118.) I met with one instance in which hemiple- gia was connected with pulpy disorganization of the posterior part of the hemisphere, so near the convoluted surface, that the lesion could be immediately recognized after removing the dura mater, by the unusual change of colour and consistence. Dr Duncan Junior records two excellent examples in which pulpy destruction of the anterior and middle lobes of the brain caused hemiplegy, and that of the cerebellum gave rise to palsy of the paraplegic form, without disorder of intellect, j It appears also from the testimony of Dr Cheyne, that the form of disease which he terms creeping palsy depends on the progressive softening of the substance of the hemispheres. In the only example of this lesion recorded by the author, the morbid change was vascular injection, and pulpy de- struction of the white matter of both cerebral hemispheres, which was of the consistence of thick cream.§ The circumstances of cases, in which this change takes place, show that it is not so much the destruction of the cerebral sub- stance as the capillary injection or inflammation, with which it is attended, that produces the loss of power in the muscles of volun- * Observations par lesquclles on tache de decouvrir la partie du Cerveau ou l’ame exerce sea Fonctions. Chez Memoires de l’Academie Royale dcs Sciences, 1741. t Georgii Procbaska Op. Minorum, partem ii. Vienna;, 1800. Observat. Patholog sect. iv. Casus Ires complectens, &c. i Contributions to Morbid Anatomy, No. II. By A. Duncan Jun. M. D., &c. Ed. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. XVII. 328, 32!). § Dublin Hospital Reports, Vol. IV. p. 270.