INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—CjECAL DISEASE. 637 the latter and general inflammation much as a strangulated hernia. Indeed, the appearance of the ileum was quite similar to that pre- sented by intestines above a point of strangulated bowel. The termination of this disease is, nevertheless, not necessarily or inevitably fatal. If the tumor in the right iliac region be recog- nized before suppuration has taken place, resolution may be accom- plished under the use of local and general blood-letting, with very gentle aperients. Several patients in this state I have treated and seen get perfectly well; and there is always more chance of com- plete recovery if the treatment be commenced in this stage, than if it be delayed until suppuration has occurred. After this event the favourable termination, though less likely, may be effected in the mode already mentioned. Though all the causes of this disorder may not be perfectly understood, yet several are sufficiently obvious and intelligible. In the first place, the peculiar situation and fixed attachment of the caecum must be regarded as an important disposing cause. That bowel being attached by its whole posterior surface, by means of filamentous tissue, to the muscles of the right lumbar region, and with its blind sac or receptacle below the level of the ileo-caecal aperture, and in a dependent position, is liable to become distended with excrementitial matter, which the bowel itself cannot easily ex- pel and raise against gravity. Then the vermiform process itself, by its dependent position, may encounter difficulty in evacuating its contents. Secondly, all articles taken with food, or otherwise swallowed and not easily carried along the bowels, are here, from the position of the caecum, more readily detained. The stones of the drupaceous fruits, seeds, pieces of money or metal, fragments of bones, marbles, and similar substances, are liable to be here stopped, and by their presence to cause irritation. In fatal cases the caecum sometimes contains hardened faeces, concretions; and in one case I found frag- ments of glass. Kaltschmidt records the case of an artisan of 25, who, about one month after swallowing many walnuts and medlars, was attacked with symptoms of ileus, which, after lasting for 15 days, terminated in death. On inspecting the body Kaltschmidt found the whole tract of the bowels presenting marks of inflammation, and the ileum at its lower end near the valve of Bauhin perforated in three parts, and contorted or twisted so as to form three separate cavities filled with indurated feculent matter. The destruction was so complete