GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 806 the testis, the closed ends of the tubules project like rounded cor- puscula. The disposition of the tubules is mostly known from the white seminal matter contained, which renders it more distinct than the other grey matter. The most singular is the conformation of the male genitals in the rays and sharks. The glandular organs are of two sorts; one, corresponding to what has been hitherto described as testes, con- sisting of globules, and not of seminal ducts; the other generally regarded as the epididymis, composed of serpentine canals, yet not at all joined with the globulose testes. On this account Muller thinks that these bodies are not epididymides, but peculiar glands. In man the essential part of the testis consists of tubuli semini- feri, or very minute tubules, which are very numerous, and radiate from all parts of the circumference of the organ to the centre, or mediastinum testis, making numberless convolutions, which pro- gressively diminish as they approach the rete testis. Two or more of the tubuli being collected together, and invested by a common cellular tunic, form a lobule of a conical shape, with its apex ter- minating in the corpus Highmorianum. The lobules thus formed are not entirely distinct, but communicate with neighbouring lo- bules, the process investing them being incomplete. Krause esti- mates their number between 404 and 484. The tubuli of which they are composed are of a white colour, and uniform in size; but their calibre varies in different subjects, and in different periods of life, and different states of the system. They are larger in young adults, and when distended with semen, than in aged persons, and when the gland is in a state of rest. From a table of measurements'made by Mr Gulliver, and publish- ed in the proceedings of the Zoological Society, their diameter ap- pears to have varied from the 1-112th to the l-77th part of an English inch, and from the 1-160th to the l-100th part of an inch in adults; and in children and infants, from the 1-400th to the l-230th part of an English inch. Observers, however, vary as to the diameter of these tubuli. The average diameter of the unin- jected canal is estimated by Muller at l-18th of a line, = 1-180th of an inch, and by Lauth, 1-185th of an inch. Krause found the tubuli when filled with semen to measure about one-twelfth of one line, = l-120th of an inch, and in old men and youths about 1-16t.h of a line, or 1-160th part of an inch. As to their number and their length little seems ascertained.