ADIPOSE TISSUE. 67 day the features were decomposed, the face pale, the counte- nance Hippocratic; and death took place the same evening, with- in twenty-six hours from the first appearance of symptoms. Upon inspection, the whole adipose membrane was found extensively infiltrated with dirty oily-like serum. The arteries were not dis- eased. Anatomico-Pathological Causes of Disjunctive Inflam- mation.—Though I do not deny that this disease is occasionally to be seen in the filamentous tissue, yet I think this is a much rarer occurrence than in the adipose membrane; and several cir- cumstances appear to prove, that it is, if not the only, at least by far the most common, form of inflammation in that tissue. This conclusion is founded not only on the anatomical fact of the adipose membrane being found most usually the seat of the disease, and of its affecting parts where this texture is most abundant, as already stated, but also in another circumstance, viz. that the disease is most frequent in corpulent persons, in whom the adipose tissue is abundant. This circumstance again seems to be referable to the low vital energy of that tissue, as already in some degree ex- plained. In the corpulent, either by habit or age, in whom this disease assumes its most exquisite, intense, and unmanageable forms,— who are generally not only plethoric, but bloated, and liable to im- perfect circulation, and disorders of the circulation and secretion generally,—and in whom slight causes are often followed by serious disorders, the adipose tissue appears to lose a great proportion of the small degree of vital energy which it possesses, and the more abundant the secreted product is, the less active are its vessels and the inherent properties of the membrane. In consequence of this gi eat.ly impaired energy, slight causes, as cold, scratches, or abrasions, punctures, contusions, &c. are suddenly followed by a more or less complete loss of circulation and action in the tissue; for the disease consists not in increased, but diminished action ; and this impaired energy continues, until the natural functions of the tissue become extinct In these circumstances, with few and inert blood-vessels, the secreted or inorganic matter of the adipose tissue becomes, as it were, a cause of strangulation of the tissue itself, or at least tends so directly to suppress the energies of its organic part, that it is incapable of resisting the influence of morbific agents of ordinary powei, and hence, the organic portion either may be smitten with