GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 842 absuidly ascribed it to a milder degree of pancreatic inflammation, or, as Gautier expresses it, to increased irritability of the pancreas. It may, however, be regarded as a law of inflammation of glandu- lar tissue, that, in the early stage, the secretion is diminished or suppressed, and that, if it seem to be augmented in the latter stage, this is rather the effect and the proof of the subsidence of the in- flammation and its final disappearance than of increased action. In one case of this disorder, in which I had an opportunity of in- specting the parts after death, I observed the progress of the disease for months. The patient, a female of about 48, continued ill for seven or eight years, with pain in the epigastric region, and more urgently unwell for about two years, with pain and tenderness in the same part, frequent attacks of sickness and vomiting, occasional diarrhoea, constant headach, a pulse varying from 88 to 96, most usually at 92, rather full, and hot dry skin, though pale, blanched, and at length leucophlegmatic complexion. The pain, which was most felt in the epigastric, and towards the right hypochondriac region, was so urgent, that the slightest and gentlest pressure could not be borne ; it was constant, and underwent no remission ; was distinctly referred to the region specified by the patient herself; and was always relieved by local bleeding, and occasionally by general blood-letting. The effect of opiates was immediate but temporary, that of counter-irritation by blister or tartar-emetic ointment more permanent. As the disease proceeded, the fits of vomiting became more frequent and urgent, and were accompanied with distressing hiccup; nothing was retained; the patient wasted, and became waxy-coloured and leucophlegmatic; and life was maintained for some time by nutritious enemata with opiates. Though the ema- ciation was not visibly extreme, yet the pale waxy appearance of the surface and transparency of the skin, showed the imperfect and scanty degree of nutrition. Death took place apparently by ex- haustion and inanition. It was then found that the pancreas was exceedingly hard, al- most like a stone, a little enlarged, but not positively altered in structure. It resisted the knife like firm cheese or cartilage. The acini, which were the parts mostly altered, were of a reddish-gray colour, very close in texture, and extremely firm. It seemed ra- ther less vascular than usual. This body was felt during life, and it never could be pressed or handled without causing much pain. The gall-bladder was greatly distended,—a circumstance which