835 SUPPURATION OF THE PANCREAS. similar to that of other abscesses; in a few cases it is greenish. It may be either inodorous or exhale a faint mawkish odour like ordinary matter; and it has in a few instances been found ex- tremely fetid. In some cases it consists of thin serous fluid with curdly clots; and it is then conceived to indicate the presence of the strumous diathesis. The matter of these pancreatic abscesses is often enclosed with- in a sac or membranous pouch, formed by the cellular tissue either of the pancreas or covering the gland. Portal states that he has seen two pounds of purulent matter contained within the gland. It may open a passage to itself either through the posterior wall of the stomach, through part of the duodenum, through the colon into its cavity, or into the general cavity of the peritoncEum. Portal allows that suppuration is in many cases the immediate effect of inflammation of the pancreas. It may be admitted that, in all cases where suppuration has taken place, it is the effect of inflammation ; and the only circumstance of difference is the ques- tion, whether the inflammation is attended with pain and other feelings of uneasiness, or is unattended by these symptoms ? Sup- puration seems always to be a process occupying a considerable time; and in this point of view it may be said to be chronic. But it appeals fiom the cases recorded, that suppuration or suppurative inflammation is of three kinds at least; the ordinary, the strumous, and the metastatic. In the two former instances, it must be ad- mitted to be preceded by inflammatory action, however obscure that may be, and however indistinct be the symptoms to which the process gives rise. It is chiefly important to observe that inflammatory suppuration ot the pancreas does not give rise to well marked symptoms at first. But after some time, that is, when probably the purulent collection has become considerable, and begun by mechanical pressure and the "S r" ° “ BCt tlle Penological properties of the gland and tinued" ‘g'l0UT''r' <its“f vomiti"g. “ore or less violent and con- whieh hTr r takl,,S f00<1’ take l,laCe’ “I the loins. and whiVb6 I'™ m,Stalen fOT "ePhrit;c rheumatic pains, and which prevent the patient from lyintr on bis Wu 1 °f the belly’ Hke sPasraodic Pains (Baillie), are ob- & r'SC- Whi0l‘ “ unaffected, tulence, cardiahi^ a’nd '°m80to80; ^peptic symptoms, as fia- •y ’ and V^trodyma, are observed, in some in-