174 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Each helicine branch projecting into a venous cavity is covered by a thin membrane, which Professor Muller regards as the inner coat of the dilated vein, and when there is a tuft of helicine twigs, the whole tuft is covered with one envelope of a gauze-like mem- brane. This covering is considerably thicker on the helicine arte- ries in the posterior part of the corpus spongiosum urethrae than in the corpus cavernosum ; but it is probable that this is in some measure connected with the state of repletion of the arteries; for when the injection has run well, it becomes difficult to distinguish the external covering. Professor Muller could not discover any apertures either in the sides or in the ends of the helicine arteries; but he seems to regard it as probable that there are minute apertures, which may be of a nature to allow the passage of blood in some states and not in others. The helicine arteries are not, as some may suppose, loops of ves- sels which have been incompletely filled, and which, after making a coil, pass into venous spaces, as E. H. Weber discovered to be the case with the arteries of the maternal portion of the placenta. They are merely branches projecting from the arterial trunks con- taining blood. The helicine arteries aremore numerous towards the rootthan near the point of the penis. They are observed in the corpus spongiosum urethrae, especially towards its bulb, but they are not so easily seen there as in the corpora cavernosa. They have not yet been observed in the glans. Their structure is nearly the same in all the animals in which they have been observed ; those of the ape bear the near- est resemblance to those of man, and in most animals they are less obvious than in the human subject. In the horse and dog they give off small nutrient twigs from their sides, which render them more difficult to be seen in these animals than in man. It seems not doubtful that the accumulation of blood in these helicine arteries is the physiological cause of the phenomena of erection. The spleen, M. Beclard thinks, may be said to resemble the ca- vernous body both in structure and phenomena; and he considers it as at once consisting of erectile tissue, and to be the seat of a species of erection more or less similar to that of the cavernous body. This organ, he argues, becomes the occasional seat of a motion of expansion and contraction ; and he adduces the three following conditions in which it takes place. ls£, In experiments; when in a living animal the course of the blood in the splenic veins