GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 116 monary artery. The subject demands further research. Mean- while strong confirmation is found in the interesting remark of Bichat, that the osseous or calcareous depositions which are com- mon in various spots of the inner arterial membrane, and especially at the mitral and aortic valves, are never found in the inner venous membrane, or at the tricuspid valve, or in the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery. Have these depositions been found inside the pulmonary veins, and not inside the pulmonary artery ? This fact is still wanting to complete even their pathological similarity. The inner or common venous membrane is, however, the most extensive and the most uniform of all the venous tissues. It is the onty one which is found in the substance of organs, and is present where the cellular and proper membrane are wanting. This is the case not only with venous branches and minute canals as they issue from the substance of muscles, bones, and such organs as the liver, kidneys, spleen, &c. but is also very remarkably observed with re- gard to the venous canals of the brain. I have already noticed the absence of the cellular and proper tissues in these tubes; and I have now to remark, that the cerebral veins consist solely of the inner membrane, while in the brain or membranes, and when in the sinuses of this inner membrane, placed between folds of the dura mater. When the jugular vein reaches the temporo-occipital sinuosity, it loses its proper membrane, while its common or inner membrane passes into the hollow of the dura mater, called sinus, and thus forms the venous canal. This fact is readily demonstrat- ed by slitting open either the lateral or the superior longitudinal sinus, when a thin delicate membrane, quite distinct from the fib- rous appearance of the dura mater, will be found to line the inte- rior of these canals. The inner surface of many veins presents membranous folds pro- jecting obliquely into the cavity of the vessel. These folds, which, from their mechanical office, have been named valves, (valvule,) are parabolic in shape, have two margins,—an attached and free, and two surfaces, a concave turned to the cardiac end of the vein, and a convex turned in the opposite direction. The attached mar- gin is not straight, as may be imagined, but circular, and adheres to the inner surface of the vessel. The free margin resembles in shape an oblong parabola; and the direction of the valve is such, that a force applied to its convex surface would urge it more closely to the vein, whereas a force applied to the concave surface would