266 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. This is the structure of the upper and lower worm. Between the lower of the quadrigeminous eminences and the cerebellum is a thick semicylindrical band on each side, known under the name of pillars of the valve, and processus a eerebello ad testes. These a little below the lower margin of the valve seem to sink directly into the cerebellic substance, mutually join, and form a whitish stem, which is ramified in the middle of the cerebellum. About four lines or half an inch from their first entrance into the organ, a branch set off almost straight upwards is the vertical branch, (Der Stehende Ast,) which, after giving off its first twig (der erste zweig) to the central lobe, divides into other seven, which are distributed to the anterior or mesial lobules of the quadrilateral lobes, as they meet on the mesial plane. The white stem of this vertical branch is thick and large. A more slender stem, the continuation of the original white band, proceeding horizontally backwards towards the purse-shaped notch, is the horizontal stem (Der Liegende Ast,) which constitutes by ramification a number of important parts on the mesial plane of the cerebellum. After giving three or four twigs generally small, and also vertical, to the last leaves of the quadrilateral lobes, the branches are parted in the following order :—1 st, A twig under the cross commissures of the posterior-upper lobes, forming the short exposed cross-hands (die Kurzen und siclitbaren Querbander,) and the long covered cross-hands; (die verdeckten und langen Querbander;)—2d, A branch dividing into three strong twigs, forming the leaves of the pyramid;—3d, A long branch dividing into three twigs, forming the leaves of the uvula (der Zapfen;)—• 4:th, The last generally a single twrig, constituting the laminar tu- bercle or nodule (das Knotchen.) The spinal chord is the last part of the central class of organs coming under the head of brain. It may be viewed as two longi- tudinal bands united by the middle. Both are fibrous internally throughout their entire length ; and in the lumbar region of the canal these fibres are separated and expanded into a true brush-like arrangement, named cauda equina. Some anatomists have ima- gined they could recognize cross fibres in the chord ; but, with the exception of what has been stated regarding the connection of the restiform processes, nothing of this nature can be regarded as esta- blished. Some anatomists have also thought it possible to demonstrate