GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 54 found the blood in certain morbid states to contain oil. In wounds in the human body during life, and in living animals, oily par- ticles may be seen floating on the surface of the blood; but these proceed from division of the adipose vesicles. That fat does not exist in the arterial blood in health, or is in very minute quantity, may be therefore admitted as an established point. The idea that it is separated, or strained from this fluid, therefore, must also be gratuitous; and as such it is viewed by Bichat, who considers the deposition of fat as the effect of exhalation. This, it must be confessed, is little more than a different name for the pro- cess termed by Haller secretion. Lastly, an opinion has been deli- vered by Mascagni, that, while the arteries deposit or pour forth an imperfect or crude oily fluid, the lymphatics absorb the thin parts, and leave the residue in a more solid and perfect form. In conclusion, all that can be affirmed regarding the formation of this substance is, that it is deposited by the blood-vessels, but by what particular process, or in what form, is entirely tmknown. The process by which the arteries of the adipose membrane secrete fat appears to be equally mysterious as that by which the vessels of muscle deposit fibrine, those of bone deposit osseous matter, and those of cartilage form that animal substance. It appears, therefore, that the adipose tissue may be distinguish- ed into two elements, one organic and secreting; the other, inor- ganic and secreted. The adipose membrane is one of the most extensively distributed tissues in the animal body; and this circumstance, with its peculiar organic and physiological properties, exercises remarkable influence on its inflammatory and other morbid states. In distribution it may be distinguished in the following manner. 1. The subcutaneous adipose tissue, extended in a uniform layer, variable in thickness, beneath the skin all over the body, excepting at certain parts where the skin communicates with the mucous membrane, as the eyelids, the lips, the penis of the male, the labia in the female, where there is no adipose tissue, and beneath the hairy scalp, where the adipose tissue is extremely thin ; 2. the pe- riangial adipose tissue, surrounding and enclosing the large blood- vessels and nerves in the trunk and extremities, forming a sort of shcatli to these organs, and sustaining their nutrient vessels, (vasa vasorum); 3. the subserous adipose tissue, deposited, more or less abundantly, beneath the different serous membranes, and between