535 SKIN. cinoma, but seemed to consist in an inflammatory induration of the corial tissue. On the anatomical characters of the white scall (vitiligo), possess no accurate information. I have often suspected that the appearances referred to this disease are in truth the effects of othei s more known. 1. (Yaws) (frambcesia), consist in chronic inflammation of the cor ion taking place in circumscribed spots, attended partly with death of a portion of the corial substance, partly with growth of granular fungi,—the result of a peculiar morbid poison. On the nature and characters of this disease much misconception has prevailed, chiefly from the erroneous notions to which its sta- tion, in the arrangement of Cullen, gave birth. These were first corrected in 1791 by Dr Jonathan Anderson Ludford, who showed that yaws is a true cutaneous inflammation, which, though more chronic, yet, like small-pox and other acute cutaneous eruptions, is preceded by febrile motions, and observes regular periods of acces- sion, height, and decline.* The general accuracy of these facts has been confirmed by the testimony of Dr William Wright,f Dr Winter- bottom,! Dr Joseph Adams,§ and Dr James Thomson,|| who ob- served the phenomena of the disease in negroes or Europeans in the West Indies or elsewhere. Dr Dancer, who admits that they seldom make their appearance without previous indisposition, alone doubts the propriety of comparing them with small-pox and other eruptions. IT It cannot be doubted, that the appearance of yaws is invariably preceded by more or less indisposition,—as languor, pains of the limbs like those of rheumatism, chillness or shivering succeeded by general heat and uneasiness, amounting in most cases to fever, and always more severe and distinct in children than in adults. The first trace of eruption is a white mealy scurf covering the whole cutaneous surface. A few days after small firm pimples may be Tentamen Med. Inaug. de Frambcesia et Jon. Ludford Ed. 1791. t Apud Adams on Morbid Poisons. £ Account of the Native Africans, &c. by T. M. Winterbottom, M.D. London 1803, Vol. II, c. viii. ’ § Observations on Morbid Poisons, &c. by Jos. Adams, M.D. 2d Edit. Lond. 1807, chap. xvi. II Observations and Experiments, &c. Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. XV. 321, and XVII. 31. J The Medical Assistant, &p. by Thomas Dancer, M. D. Kingston, 1801. chap. ix. P- *01. 2d Edition. St Jago dc la Vega, 1809. P. 226.