118 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the Eustachian, (valvula Eustacliiana, valvula nobilis,) which is al- ways placed at the cardiac end or beginning of the inferior cava, where that vessel is attached to the sinus of the right auricle. Shaped in general like a crescent, the attached margin of which is the arch of a large circle, and the free that of a small one, it pro- ceeds from the left extremity of the sinus downwards, forwards, and towards the left side, where it is insensibly lost on the mem- brane of the auricular septum. At its lower end it generally covers the orifice of the large coronary vein. This membranous production is always larger, more perfect, and more distinct in the foetus, and in the infant, than in the adult. In the latter it is al- most always reticulated; and sometimes the only vestige of its ex- istence is a thin chord or two representing its anterior margin. I have seen it reticulated even at the age of sixteen or seventeen, and almost destroyed beyond thirty. Haller was much perplexed to account for the use of this membranous fold.* The conjecture of Bichat, that it is connected with some purpose in the foetal cir- culation, is entitled to regard. Dr Gordon has mentioned a third partial substance, which is occasionally found in local patches at various parts of veins. This, which I believe to be accidental, or not connected with healthy structure, is, I suppose, the following. Where the veins unite to form a single trunk at the point of union, there is often seen extending from it into the trunk a reddish coloured matter of a triangular shape with the apex turned toward and into the „ trunk. This seems void () — ~ / \ r —> (j of organization, and it 0 ~~ — — ■ appears to me a deposit from the blood exactly at the point where the current is least forci- ble, upon the same principle as that on which we observe banks of silt, gravel, and sand accumulated under the sterlings of a bridge. Besides the cellular or filamentous envelope, veins receive ca- pillary arteries, to which there are corresponding veins. The ar- teries rise from the nearest small ramifying arteries; and the cor- responding veins do not terminate in the cavity of the vein to which they belong, but pass off from its body, and join some others from different parts; and at last terminate in the common trunk some way higher.f Nervous branches, or rather filaments, are * Haller do Valvula Eustachii. Extat in Disput. Anatomic. Selec. Vol. IT. p. 1 f Hunter, X. Of Veins, p. 181.