1058 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. while lie questions the effective operation of the two former, he ad- vocates somewhat strongly the influence of the third cause. I must refer my readers to the original paper for the arguments by which he maintains the justice of his cause. In point of fact, while Mr Thurnam has shown that this spe- cies of aneurismal dilatation or rupture may occur not only in the left ventricle, but in the right, and also in the auricles, the 22d case which is recorded in the memoir by the author, and the in- stances of the lesion taking place in the septum cordis, prove that the lesion may take place not merely at the apex of the heart, but at the base of the septum. It must be allowed, therefore, that, though the lesion is most liable to take place at or near the apex of the left ventricle, it may be found in other parts of the heart, and consequently that the circumstances concerned in its production must be applicable not to the apex only, but to other parts. By M. Bouillaud an idea somewhat different has been ad- vanced, viz. that the false consecutive aneurism of the heart is one of the effects or terminations of inflammation in the muscular sub- stance of the heart. This author informs us, <£ that the formation of an aneurismal cyst consecutive to ulceration of the internal and middle membranes of the heart, is accomplished by the same me- chanism as that of an aneurismal cyst of the arteries. The lamel- lar disposition of the coagulum is exactly the same in the false consecutive aneurism of the heart, as in the false consecutive aneu- rism of the arteries. I need not, therefore, dwell at length here on the anatomical description of this accident of the ulcerations of the heart. The tumour formed by the blood infiltrated and coa- gulated is very different in quantity. Thus it may in some instances not be equal to the size of a walnut or filbert, while in other cases it exceeds the bulk of an egg, and may even be greater than that of the two ventricles together.” It cannot be denied that this mode of explaining the origin ot the aneurismal cysts of the heart is to a certain extent plausible. Several of these cysts present appearances of ulceration ; and if it could be proved that the ulceration always precedes the formation of the cysts, and is always the effect of previous inflammation, the question would be decided. This is, however, very far from being the fact, or the constant result in all cases. Not only do instances of aneurismal cysts in the substance of the heart take place without any indications of previous inflammation or ulceration ; but in seve- ral of the cases, indeed the majority, the lesion exists for a long