489 BONE. in the osseous texture, it often spreads to it from the contiguous one. Thus most surgeons have seen cancer of the lip or scirrhus of the parotid affect the lower jaw; cancer of the female breast erode the ribs; cancer of the penis affect the ossa pubis; and can- cer of the eye or eyelids, in both sexes, affect the frontal, malar, or superior maxillary bones. 14. Tubercular destruction may occur in bones; but it most frequently originates in the periosteum or adjoining tissues, and passes thence to the enclosed bone, in which it produces the usual destructive erosion. (Palletta.) 15. Hydatids of the social form were seen in the tibia by Cul- lerier.* 16. In early life the growth of the osseous system may be sus- pended or interrupted, so that the parts of the skeleton are incom- plete. This deficiency generally takes place on the mesial plane, at the line where the bones of each side are approaching to unite with each other. It is most common in the spinous processes of the vertebrae, in the bones of the head, and those of the upper jaw and palate. In the spine it is generally connected with the abnormal effusion of fluid from the membranes of the chord, or the chord it- self, when it constitutes spina bifida or cleft spine. The same de- ficiency I have seen in the frontal and nasal bones; and in hare-lip it is by no means uncommon in those of the palate and superior i jaw. II7. Before concluding this chapter, a few words may be said on the morbid states incident to the teeth. The enamel is liable to be worn down by the mutual attrition of the teeth of the upper and lower jaw. This detrition, which has ■ been particularly described by Prochaska,f is most conspicuous in the crowns of those of the lower jaw, which in some subjects are so much worn down as to expose the central osseous pith of the tooth. Though effected chiefly by attrition, it is much facilitated by the use of acid substances, and by those states of the stomach and ali- mentary canal which favour the formation of acid. Another form of the same destruction may take place in the corresponding sides of two teeth which are too closely implanted together. The mu- tual pressure exercised during the process of mastication appears to be the first cause of this. After it is once established, it destroys * Cruveilhier, Anat. Pathol. Vol. I. p. 230. t Observationes Anatomicae de Decrcmento i Operum Minorum. Partem lldam, p. 355, &c. Dentium Corporis Humani. Viennae, 1000. Apud