COLIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE—DYSENTERY. 641 When the mucous membrane was cleared of adherent mucus, numerous patches, variable in size from that ot a pea to that of a sixpenny piece, or even larger, and irregular in figure, appealed covered with a coating of albuminous mucus tinged with the co- louring matter of the bile and excrement. When these coveiings were removed, they disclosed surfaces destroyed by irregular ul- ceration of the mucous membrane. These ulcers had originated in the follicles of the colon, which had become softened at the commencement of the attack, and had then proceeded to sloughing and ulceration. The state now de- scribed extended along the whole colon, but was most remarkable in the transverse arch and sigmoid flexure. In some other cases the disease was confined to the lower part of the sigmoid flexure and to the rectum. The mucous membrane had become thickened, and similar patches of ulceration, very ir- regular in shape, had been formed, covered in like manner by lymph tinged with the colouring matter of the bile and excrement. The coats of the bowel were in like manner thickened and indu- rated, and the area of the bowel was contracted. The necroscopic appearances of tropical dysentery have been described more or less fully by Sir W. Farquhar, Sir George Ballingall, Mr Bampfield, Mr Annesley, whose several testimonies tend to establish the general conclusion, that this disease consists in inflammation of the colic mucous membrane, spreading in gene- ral, not always or necessarily, with ulceration, but advancing to this process when not suitably or promptly opposed, and occasionally ending in death of portions of the mucous membrane. Of this in- flammation the peculiarities are, Is/, that it is confined with consi- derable accuracy to the colon or large intestine, and the ileum be- ing but rarely affected, and only at its lower or colic extremity; 2d, that this inflammatory action spreads continuously from the ileo- ccecal valve along the mucous membrane of the ccecum, right branch ot the colon, transverse arch and sigmoid flexure, at various rates, and with various effects, but at all times with that of producing fre- quent copious discharges of mucous, muco-purulent, and blood-co- loured stools 5 3c/, that this process may continue for some time without producing ulceration of the mucous corion, or inflamma- tion of the submucous tissue; that these phenomena may take place, nevertheless, in certain circumstances, at an early period; and that in others they occur towards the conclusion of the disease; S3