933 THE KIDNEYS.—NEPHROPYEMA. peared little more than cysts full of pus, the one weighing four ounces and the other three.”* I have seen several cases in which observers otherwise able were deceived by his appearance, and were led to imagine that the kidney was converted into purulent cysts. The mistake is rectified by removing the purulent matter cauti- ously, and washing the cavities in pure water, when it is observed that the fine membrane covering the papilla and lining the infun- dibula (membrana calycina) is a little rough and thickened, very generally covered with lymph, but not destroyed or marked by any breach of continuity; that the papillae may he recognized also en- tire ; and that the only change which has taken place is consider- able distension by purulent matter, and consequent attenuation of the tubular and cortical part of the kidney. The quantity of matter accumulated, however, may be consider- able, the distension great, and the consequent attenuation of the renal substance may be carried to a great extreme. The first effect of this increased accumulation is, by the distension, to force two or more infundibula into one common and considerable cavity or sac; the next effect is gradually to force several infundibula into one considerable sac; and if the accumulation continue and the disten- sion proceed, the infundibula and pelvis are converted into one general extensive sac, containing purulent matter. In cases of this description, the cortical and tubular substance of the kidney are so much stretched and attenuated, that not unfrequently they are not thicker than a crown or a half-crown piece ; and it might he imagined that these tissues were almost or altogether destroyed by suppuration, and that nothing is left but the external capsule. When, however, a proper section is made, the purulent matter evacuated, and the parts washed with pure water, the calycine membrane and the papilla may he recognized,—the former rough with lymph and thickened mucus, the latter much compressed ; the individual tubular cones may be traced, though much stretched and separated ; and the cortical structure may he perceived in the form of a thin exterior coating. The size which the expanded and attenuated kidney may in these circumstances attain, is often very great, and the quantity of mat- ter with or without urine very considerable.. The older authors, as Blasius and Ott, have not distinguished the disease with accu- racy or precision ; and consequently I can make little use of these * Pathological Inquiries, Chap. ii. p. 0. Gloucester, 1760.