1060 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. that the idiopathic fibrous transformation of the muscular fibres of the heart performs a greater part in the formation of partial aneu- rism than inflammation ; and if the apex of the heart be often the seat of the lesion, the reason is, that it is the weakest part of the left ventricle, and therefore the most frequent seat of the fibrous transformation, so common a consequence of distension of the mus- cular tissue. The reason why the right ventricle, he adds, is less frequently affected by partial dilatation is, that its walls are less thick, and its structure more areolar than that of the left ventricle. The vigour and force with which the left ventricle contracts is the anatomico- physiological cause of its predisposition to this disease. When the fibrous transformation has commenced in one point of the walls of the heart, he infers that the distension which takes place at each contraction becomes an incessant cause of irritation; and there are formed in this non-contractile sac clots which may serve as a barrier to oppose the enlargement of the tumour. He adds that he has seen cases, in which the shape of the heart was not sensibly altered externally, though its apex presented the com- mencement of this fibrous sac or recess, and the presence of such a state had been denoted by no symptom during life. The correct- ness of this observation I can confirm from personal knowledge; and of this the case of the young man, No. 21, which occurred in my own practice, is an excellent example. When, however, the part thus transformed into fibrous tissue is dilated into a sac superadded to the ventricle, or pushed beyond the level of its internal surface, yet communicating with its cavity by a narrow orifice, it constitutes the partial aneurism described by authors. M. (Jruveilhier, however, does not apply to all these tumours the name of false consecutive aneurism; and he makes a distinction between this and partial aneurism of the heart. By partial aneur- ism of the heart, M. Cruveilhier understands dilatation of one portion of the heart into a cyst, in consequence of the fibrous transformation of tbe tissue of the organ. These parts, however, may become eroded, and hence may be lacerated; and while tbe cardiac pericardium prevents complete rupture, either alone or by its having contracted adhesion with the capsular pericardium, the partial aneurism of the heart would then be converted into talse consecutive aneurism.* * Cruveilhier Anatomie Pathologique, Livraison xxi.