936 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. § 3. Nephropsammia ; Litiitasis Nephritica.—An attack of renal inflammation may terminate in the secretion of a considerable quantity of sabulous matter, with or without puriform or morbid mucus and blood; and if this escape not by the ureter into the bladder, and be thence expelled in the usual manner, the sabulous matters are aggregated by the viscid mucus and other morbid secretions into masses moulded in one or more of the infundibula or the pelvis; and there they remain constituting urinary renal calculi; in which case they may, either with or without inflamma- tion, cause obstruction in the excretion of the urine, and consequent expansion of the renal infundibula. § 4. Nephropyema Calculosa.—Though it is well ascertained that calculi if round do not always give rise to symptoms of un- easiness or pain in the dorso-lumbar region, or to symptoms of renal inflammation, yet they are very liable to do so during the operation of any of the ordinary exciting causes of inflammation, as external violence, exposure to cold, or a long and fatiguing journey on horseback, or the operation of the particular causes of renal irritation, as the use of acidulous articles of food or drink, the absorption or the internal use of cantharides, or the use of the turpentine, or resinous, or balsamic articles. Either after or without the operation of one or other of these causes, the patient is attacked with the symptoms of pain in the dorso-lumbar region, shivering, squeamishness, numbness of the thigh, pain or soreness or retraction of the testicle of the same side, scanty urine or total suppression, or bloody sedimentous urine and constipation. In some cases the severity of these symptoms under- goes, either in consequence of remedies or spontaneously, tempo- rary alleviation ; urine tinged brown with blood is expelled; and shortly after, quantities of sabulous matter or minute concretions are discharged. In some instances purulent matter is voided more or less co- piously with the urine, and is observed to fall to the bottom of the vessel, presenting its usual appearance and characters. Such a circumstance is generally conceived to indicate suppuration of the kidney. In one sense it certainly does denote the presence of this process, but not in the sense commonly understood. Though it be generally said that the kidney then suppurates, yet this is not necessary either to the termination of the disease, or the appearance of purulent matter in the urine. A more common result is puru-