GLANDULAR ORGANS—LACRYMAL GLAND. 813 to contain a number of separate abscesses. If, however, these be carefully examined, it is seen that neither the gland nor the tex- ture of the ducts is destroyed; that the former is enlarged and ex- tenuated by the distension of the ducts; while the apparent ab- scesses are formed by the latter. This takes place in the kidneys and prostate gland. Inflammation of strumous character is liable to affect the secret- ing glands, more especially the female breast, the testes and pros- tate gland of the male, and the kidneys and parotids in both sexes. The effects of this process, which is chronic in duration, and insidi- ous and not well-marked in symptoms, are denoted by the deposit, in general, within the tubules of the glands of semifluid or fluid ty- romatous matter, that is to say, an albuminous animal product, which, though it undergoes coagulation, is nevertheless remarkable for showing little or no tendency to become organized. This sub- stance, found in the shape of putty-like matter, caseous-matter, or caseous mixed with calcareous matter, presents few or no blood- vessels, has no independent circulation, and, in short, gives evidence of possessing a very low degree of vitality, or rather nothing of that property at all. As already stated, it is found in the ducts of the testes and prostate gland, in which its presence gives rise to consi- derable irregular swelling and pain by pressure on adjoining parts; it is also seen in the mamma, where it likewise causes considerable irregular swelling; and it may affect either the serpentine ducts of the kidney, or the calyces of that gland. Section II. § I. THE LACRYMAL AND SALIVARY GLANDS. These glands are liable to inflammation, acute and chronic • the latter most usual. Inflammation of the lacrymal gland is certainly rare, unless as the effect of injury or the extension of inflammation of the conjunc t.va into its ducts. Most usually it is chronic. An instance is mentioned by Beer ;* and the disease is described by Reil and Be nedict Hemorrhage takes place from it sometimes as vicarious of menstruation, sometimes without any obvious connection with this cause Hemorrhage appearing at the eyes in purpura is most probably from the conjunctiva. 1 w'leSr Be" A""ahl “■dcm «n« practriBchen Augenarzta,, „. 2.