GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 432 become larger, so that they may be three or four times more ample than those at the compact surface of the bone. The intersection of these canals, also near the medullary cavity with their enlarged size, produces the formation of cells, which communicate with se- veral of the canaliculi. The wall of the canaliculi is composed of from 10 to 15 con- centric lamellae, and is from 5i0th to part of an English inch broad. These canals contain marrow or a substance like it. The corpuscula, which were known to Leewenhoeck, but have been fully examined only by Purkinje, Deutsch, Miescher, and Muller, are oblong oval bodies, flattened, and pointed at each end, situate between two lamella, so that their long diameter pre- serves an oblique direction to the lamella. They are observed in bone which has been deprived of its earthy matter by acid, like minute specks of a brown colour, transparent in the middle and bounded by a distinct opaque line. Their size varies. From them proceed many dark-coloured striae, so that they present the appearance of ovoidal bodies with small fibrils or roots proceeding from them. Their long diameter is from .0048 to .0072 ; and their transverse diameter from .0017 to .0030 of one line. These bodies are formed in the primary or ossifying cartilage; around them ossification takes place; and it appears that their pre- sence is of great importance to the original formation of the bone. When these corpuscula are examined, by a powerful microscope, with refracted light, they appear like black oblong specks, with the dark stria proceeding from their surface in all directions, but most abundantly from their lateral regions. When they are examined by reflected light, they appear like bluish-white specks of a milky colour, with the stria of the same colour proceeding from them. What the nature of these corpuscula may be, has been a source of much inquiry. When laminae of bones finely polished aie boil- ed in potass, and thereby deprived of their translucency, the cal- careous matter of the part formerly translucent adheres, exactly as if the structure of the animal matter had been in no way change In all the intermediate spaces the substance of the coipuscula ap pears finely granulated; and the white grains equal nearly tie size of the diameter of the radiating canals of these bodies. Muller thinks it merely probable that these corpuscula may be a sort of secreting organs to deposit osseous matter; and he there fore is disposed, though not very confidently, to term them oiga,