BRAIN. 309 to proceed to pulpy destruction may cause death. When it affects a whole hemisphere, which it may sometimes do, (Morgagni, Epist. v. 15, 16 ; li. 7,11,) it may alter the appearance so little as readily to escape observation. 6th, The first and fourth cases of Dr Abercrom- bie I am unable to explain ; but I think they may have taken place in persons with granular disease of the kidney, which not unfre- quently causes apoplectic death, yet without leaving any traces of vascular injection or hemorrhage. For the reasons now assigned, it may be justly questioned whe- ther there is ground for admitting such a state of the brain as the nervous apoplexy of Zuliani, Ivortum, Kirkland, and Abernethy. According to the present state of evidence, it is wisest to adopt the side which does not recognize this form of apoplectic disease. 7. In the foregoing account of the state of the brain giving rise to apoplectic symptoms, I have said nothing of that loss of voluntary muscular power known under the name of palsy, (jparalysis; paresis; resolutio nervorum ;)because I suppose it to depend on the same state of the cerebral capillaries which causes the general apoplectic af- fection, which it either precedes, accompanies, or follows; or on that state of the brain or spinal chord which I have already de- scribed as terminating in pulpy destruction. In attempting to es- tablish clearly the anatomical characters of palsy, two circumstances merit particular attention. First, several cases of apoplectic death are preceded by paraly- tic affection of one side, more or less extensive, in the successive forms of distortion of one side of the face, loss of speech, loss of power in an arm, a leg, or the entire side. When these phenome- na are followed by coma and death, necroscopic inspection shows, as in apoplexy, capillary injection with or without extravasation, and generally more or less destruction of brain. The commencement of* the morbid process in this instance is doubtless the same capillary injection of part of the organ, which in a more exquisite degree produces the comatose state. Secondly, Though there are not a few instances in which an attack of loss of consciousness, sensation, and motion, is not followed by loss of voluntary motion, these, 1 have already attempted to show, depend on that capillary injection which is removable by the use of remedies. When the capillary injection proceeds to destruction either by hemorrhage, by soften- mg, or by ulceration, i. e. by superficial pulpy destruction of cere- bral substance, consequent on hemorrhage, it almost invariably leaves after it more or less loss of voluntary motion, generally on