881 HEPATIC HEMORRHAGE. one means of averting the immediate fatal termination. In this pei son fui ther, the right lobe of the liver was so much shrunk and diminished, that the whole organ weighed only about one- fourth of its usual amount; while its shape was greatly altered, being rounded and drawn from the sides and circumference to the centre ; so that the whole gland was represented by a small shrunk left lobe. The effect of this lesion, which is one species of atrophy, was obstinate and incurable ascites. § 6. Hepatorrhagia. I am quite satisfied that occasionally the biliary ducts and the liver pour out blood, which is discharged into the intestinal canal. I have more than once seen in patients large quantities of blood-coloured bile, and even blood discharged m this manner, which I am satisfied came from the biliary ducts and the port biliarii, in which this liquid had been poured out abundantly. This is a species of hepatic haemorrhage. Another variety, however, of hepatic haemorrhage takes place, one m which blood is poured into the substance of the liver, which ^ rent and lacerated, much as is the brain in apoplexy. Sir G. ane gives, in a boy of eight, a case in which, after eight days of i ness, ending fatally, several fissures were found in the left lobe of the liver, and much blood was effused within the abdomen.* M Andral mentions the case of a person who, without any previous complaint or indication of illness, felt one morning „„ awaking, pains ,n the abdomen, and accordingly remained in bed. In the conrse of a few hours he was found dead. The peritoneal cavity was filled with a large quantity of dark-coloured blood partly coagulated ; and several clots were found between the diaplLgni and the convex surface of the liver. Near the centre of the right IdmitThe Ti “7Th T5°Y" “ °Pening °f Sufflcient *■> *> cav™ v h, the h 7 n ,^ ^ whioh was tha orifice of a Xuood A f SUl,Te,as large 38 a PW". a"d Piled With blood. A large vessel which had been rent opened on a rrrtrthis rei -«*a b-ch of Dr Honore presented,™!^!”'Uthe'AcT* WSS ,healthy'+ were several cavities containing blood ft wtun ® W,‘!ch ^er this proceeded from torn vessels or ;hi:h’a"mg with - «■**«> 3 ic