GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 900 he complained of headach, and afterwards a little delirium and coma ensued. I learned from his relatives that he had habitual difficult breathing, but I could not ascertain that he had cough or expectoration. Besides the morbid state of the lungs in this form of disorder, it is usual to find inflammatory redness and enlargement of the muciparous follicles of the colon, the caecum, and sometimes of the ileum, and these may be affected with ulceration. The meninges also are generally injected, and fluid is formed in the subarachnoid tissue, within the ventricles, and within the spinal theca. This form of pneumonic inflammation is most usually found in children and young persons. Its causes are imperfectly known. But, from the circumstance of its being often associated with the disorders of the joints, bones, and similar tissues usually imputed to the influence of the strumous diathesis, its development may be inferred to be dependent on the presence of this diathesis, and created by exposure to cold or some similar exciting causes. From the peculiar form which it assumes, and from its association with ulceration of the intestinal follicles, as well as the circumstances in diathesis already mentioned, I regard it as the early stage of tuber- cular consumption. The only reason that it is not so frequently met with as the other ordinary forms of pneumonia, is, that it sel- dom proves fatal in. the early stage, or before it has not only occu- pied the whole of both lungs with the morbid deposit, but produced more or less excavation. Marks of chronic diffused pneumonia are always found, in every case of tubercular infiltration and destruction of the lung. The gastric or bilious pneumonia has been rendered a subject of great importance by Lepecq de la Cloture,* * * § Stoll,f Romain4 Ac- kermann,§ Jansen,|| Guidetti,H Borsieri, Groeden, Hauff, and vari- ous other foreign physicians. Its existence as a form of peripneu- mony is almost denied by Andral, and I confess that in this country it is seen so rarely, as to justly give rise to doubts of its * Lepecq de la Cloture Observat. sur lea Maladies Epidemiques. Paris, 1776. Ratio Medendi, Vol. iii. iv. and v. Part II. v. vii. p. 112, 117, 346. + Romain Essai sur la Maniere de Traites les Peripneumonies Bilieuses. Metz, J 779. § Ackermann Pleuritidis Biliosai brevis adumbratio. Kiliae, 1785. || Dissert, de Peripneumonia Biliosa. Goett. 1787. «|J Guidetti, Dissert, de Pleuritide Biliosa. Heidelberg,'1790.