414 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. CHAPTER III. Section I. white fibrous system. Ligament,—Asa/ioc, 61 die/ioi; Periosteum ; Dura Mater; Fascia. Against the formation of this order of tissues fewer objections can be urged, though ligament and periosteum undoubtedly furnish its most perfect examples; and it may be doubted whether fascia ought to he referred to it, or arranged with tendon and aponeu- rosis. The dura mater, the tunica albuginea, and the fibro-synovial sheaths, are to he regarded as compound membranes. Ligament and periosteum are easily shown to consist of strong whitish or gray fibres, as minute as threads or hairs, interwoven to- gether in various directions, and thus forming an animal substance which is not to be split or torn asunder as tendon; but when rup- tured by extreme force presents an irregular ragged surface or margin. Maceration in water or alkaline fluids separates the com- ponent fibres, and shows their irregular disposition more distinctly. They are crisped by affusion of boiling water, or immersion in acids; and they become translucent by immersion in oil of turpen- tine. The properties of this tissue are chiefly physical. Those which are vital are referable to its organization and nutrition. It is powerfully resisting, and is one of the toughest and strongest tis- sues in the animal body, as is shown by the numerous experiments recorded in the writings of the iatro-mathematical physiologists. It is supposed to possess the exhaling ends of arteries and colour- less veins. No nerves have been recognized; and Bichat expresses his ignorance of absorbents being traced into it. Ligament when boiled yields a small portion of gelatine, but obstinately resists the action of boiling water, and retains both its shape and tenacity or cohesion. The crispation which it undergoes in boiling water, alcohol, and diluted acids, seems to indicate that albuminous matter forms its chief chemical principle. As to their mechanical shape, the ligaments are divided by Bi- chat into two sorts; those in regular and those in irregular bundles.