7 DIVISION or THE TEXTURES. chondrium, with their modifications and uses; and shows that one or other of these membranes invests and connects every bone of the skeleton. In the third division he places the internal membranes of cavities, or those which are now denominated serous and fibro-serous mem- branes. He first traces at great length the course and divisions of the dura mater and pi a mater, and contends that they accompany each nerve and nervous branch; then examines the course of the pleura and pericardium, and the relations of the mediastinum; and3 lastly, he describes the extent of the peritoneum and its several di- visions in connection with the organs contained in the abdominal cavity.* The quantity of accurate information which Bonn has here col- lected, and the new and interesting views which he communicates are truly wonderful. This essay is one of the best specimens of correct and useful generalization winch can be imagined; and it is an example of the capricious nature of scientific reputation, that, while the work of Bichat, which was published forty years after, though little more than the thesis of Bonn expanded, has given its author an imperishable name, the small treatise of Bonn is equally unknown and unregarded, and has scarcely served to rescue his name from utter oblivion. I have already alluded to the application of the distinctions of general anatomy to pathology in the writings of Cullen and John Hunter (1790). A more complete specimen of this was given in 1<90 by Dr Carmichael Smith. In a paper published in the se- cond volume of the Medical Communications of London,! this physician took a view of the phenomena and peculiarities of inflam- mation as they are observed in the different sorts of .organic sub- stance found in the animal body. This may be regarded as the first systematic attempt in this country to trace the influence which different peculiarities of structure exercise on the phenomena and progress of morbid action. Aftei this time various attempts were made to enumerate and * Specimen Anatomico-Medicum Inaugurate do Continuationibus Membranarum, quod Public® ac solemn! disquisition! submisit, Andreas Bonn, Amstelaidamo-Batavus 1Cm, ct|) ins 1703. Extat in Thesauro Dissertationum, Programnmtum, alio- ^TC9 l'xi! pU2G/!°mm Selectorum’ Eduardi Sandifort,M. D.,&c. Vol. II. Rottcrodami, l7t90T— of a Societ7 for Promoting Medical Knowledge, Vol. II. London,