1208 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. great use of this inflammation, or what may be termed its final cause, in the softening and expulsion of tubercular masses, is, by the effusion of lymph and the formation of adhesions between the pulmonic and costal pleura, to prevent perforation of the lung, the escape of air and tubercular matter into the cavity of the pleura (;pneumothorax, and empyema), and the consequent formation of pleurisy complicated with pneumothorax,—a lesion generally fatal. By the slow and gradually advancing inflammation of the pleura, and the consequent albuminous exudation and adhesion, this acci- dent is prevented. This is so common, that in one case only among 112 were the lungs free of adhesions. It, nevertheless, sometimes happens that this accident takes place. The apex of the lung, I have already said, is very gene- rally covered all round with a thick, cartilaginous coat of false membrane, uniting it to the interior of the thoracic walls; and any cavity formed in this region is thus prevented from opening into the pleura, and the general cavity. But if in the lower region of the lower lobe, any large tubercular mass is softened and expelled, and leaves a considerable cavity, verging towards the pectoral and axillary regions, it occasionally happens that adhesion has not taken place there, and that the walls of the cavity, already extenuated to an extreme degree, give way, or are perforated, especially during a fit of coughing, air and once tubercular matter escape into the pleural cavity, and there produce first collapse of the lung, and then pleuritic inflammation. Among 112 cases observed by Louis, perforation was known to take place in eight cases, and in seven of these it took place on the left side. Among 100 cases recorded in the Royal Infirmary Report, perforation took place in six, in three on the right side, and in three on the left. Since the publication of that report, I have met with two cases of perforation, among eighteen cases inspected under my own care ; and in one case, per- foration took place in the left side, in the lower part of the supe- rior lobe, and another in the middle lobe of the right side. Morbid Anatomy of the appendages of the Lungs and the other organs.—Besides the state of the lungs above de- scribed, the trachea, larynx, and epiglottis are liable to present various lesions. The membrane of the epiglottis is always redden- ed, and sometimes softened ; and the whole laryngeal and tracheal membrane is reddened and softened, or rendered flaccid. Ulcers also, various in size and shape, may be formed in these parts.