GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 52G (E. vulgare), infantile (E. infantum), and dingy pock (E. luridum), the pustules are round or oval hard masses fixed in the substance of the skin, which is red, hard, and swelled, and terminating first in elevation and desquamation of the cuticle, and then in imperfect softening, discharging a serous and generally blood-coloured fluid, which concretes into a foul dark-brown or reddish scab, which at length drops off, leaving the subjacent skin reddish, and marked by a depressed scar, indicating the affection of the corial substance. It seems probable that these ecthymatous pustules may occasion- ally be seated in the sebaceous follicles. If so they ought to be ar- ranged under the following head. ยง 7. Cutaneous inflammations originating in the substance of the conon, sometimes at the bulbs of the hair, sometimes in the cutaneous follicles, terminating in partial or imperfect suppuration, with forma- tions of scales, crusts, and occasionally sloughs, and more or less de- struction of the corial tissue. The pathological reader may perceive that the last disease, which came under consideration, forms a preparatory step to those of the present order. The hard phlyzacious pustules, by which it is dis- tinguished, denote a more complete affection of the corial substance than is known to take place in any previous cutaneous inflammation; while the slow, crude, and imperfect solution which they undergo, and the discharge of blood-coloured rather than purulent fluid, in- dicate a variety of the inflammatory process different from those already examined, and approaching to those now to follow. The transition, therefore, if not insensible, is at least natural, to a tribe of diseases of which the general character is inflammation of the corion, which, modified in various ways, gives rise to the varieties of disease referred to this kind. The principal modifying circum- stances may be referred either to duration, to circumscription, to difference in kind, or to the integral elements of the skin affected. 1. The influence of duration is observed in the comparative dif- ference of progress of the common boil, which is rapid, and that of the whelk (acne), canker {lupus), and yaws (frambcesia), which are slow and tedious. 2. The influence of circumscription or diffusion is evinced in those inflammations which are confined to a spot, and those which spread to some extent. In the whelk and boil the in- flammatory process is restricted to one point; in carbuncle, on the other hand, it affects a great extent of the corion through its entire thickness. 3. Whether the inflammation of the corial substance be different in one disease from what it is in another, there are few means