448 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. membrane or cartilage; and most of the morbid states observed by authors in bone may be traced to some variety or degree of inflam- mation in one or more of these textures. a. When the periosteum becomes inflamed, one of several effects may follow. a. It may induce effusion of coagulable lymph into its substance, or between that and the bone,—constituting simple node, and the tumour termed gumma* (3. By a modification of this action it may effuse lymph, which afterwards becomes ossified,—constituting the ossific node of Hun- ter and Howship, or simply, osseous node, (periostosis.) This ap- pears in the form of loose bony masses, plates, or scales, on the surface of such cylindrical bones as the tibia add ulna, which are, nevertheless, quite natural. In some instances this osseous node appears to consist in ossification of the inner part of a circular area of inflamed periosteum. In both cases, instead of the regular ar-. ranged longitudinal canals, the new osseous deposition presents irregular cavities, varying in size and direction.* This, together with great vascularity, constitutes the anatomical character of such deposits. In one skull under 7 in my collection, periosteal in- flammation has produced on the parietal bone a circular area the size of a shilling, of minute spherical or spheroidal eminences, sur- rounded by a smooth whitish ring, and that enclosed by a darker coloured ring. The circular area, with rough eminences, marks the space from which the periosteum was detached. It is thicker and less translucent than the rest of the bone. The white ring indicates the tract where the pericranium was inflamed, but not detached. y. If the inflammation be acute, as in that from injury, it may produce ulcerative absorption of the subjacent bone, which then presents a denuded, rough, reddish surface, progressively increasing in extent and depth. This occurs particularly in young subjects. I have seen it in the bones of the skull destroy both tables, and expose the dura mater; and the fact shows that the tendency to suppurative inflammation in the bones of the young is great. Of this the following case is a good example. A young girl of 10 or 11 years of age received on the head I a blow from a stone, which divided the scalp down to the , bone, but without causing fracture or depression. The wound * Chirurgical Observations and Cases. By William Bromficld, Surgeon to Her I Majesty and to St Georgo’s Hospital. Vol. II. Chap. i. p. 14. London, 177*2. t Howship in Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. VIII. pp. 90, and 105,106.