273 BRAIN. passing into the pure cylindrical form. These transitions are easily recognised in the posterior part of the spinal max 1 ow. The optic, the auditory, and the olfactory nerves are immediate continuations of, or productions from, the varicose medullary tubes of the brain. All the other nerves, excepting the sympathetic in the middle of its course, differ from the cerebral matter. All these other nerves also consist only of cylindrical parallel- lying tubes, about i Jotb part of a line in diameter, normally nevei anastomosing. These are the elementary nerve-tubes, which, united in fasciculi or bundles, again form larger bundles, which constitute the nerve-chords. These are the chief facts ascertained by Ehrenberg regarding the minute structure of the brain and spinal chord. These have been mostly confirmed by Berres and Muller. By others again the accuracy of these results has been called in question. 1 bus the observations of Treviranus, Valentin, and Weber tend to show that all the primitive cerebral fibres or tubes are cylindrical, and that the varicose or moniliform appearance is an effect of compres- sion; or the violence employed in subjecting them to microscopic observation. Miiller, nevertheless, admits that the primitive cerebral tubes have great proneness to become varicose or- beaded. The only points which, amidst the discordance of the results of different microscopical observers, from Leewenhoek and Fontana to Ehrenberg, Berres, Treviranus, and Muller, can be regarded as established, are the following ; that the convoluted portion of the brain consists of very minute granules or nucleoli arranged in rows so as to form fibres, which radiate from the periphery to the inner boundary of the convoluted portion ; that near the inner boundary, and as they approach the white cerebral matter, this fibrous ar- rangement becomes more distinct; and that the white cerebral matter forming the walls of the ventricles and the base of the brain is composed of tubular cylinders, mostly of large size, and having a cylindrical cavity; but whether these are varicose or not seems undetermined.* * C. G. Ehrenberg in Poggendorff’s Annalen der Physik und Chemie, Jahrg. 1833. Band XXV11I. § 449-65, und 1834. Band XXXIV. § 76, 80. Also Beobachtung einer bisher unbckannten auflallenden structur des Seelenorgan bei Menschcn und Ihieren. Von C. G. Ehrenberg. Gelescn in der Akademie der Wissensehaften am 24 October 1833. Gedruekt im, Feb. 1836. Abhandlungen ; seite 665. Translated, with Additions and Notes. By David Craigie, M. D. Edinburgh Medical and Surgicnl Journal, Vol. XLVIII. p. 257. October 1837. G. Valentin uber die Dicke der varicoscn Faden in dcm Gehirn und deni Ruckeu- mark des Menschen. In Muller’s Archiv. 1834. §401-410. S