582 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. semitransparent, and particled mucus of health is mixed with muci- laginous, semitransparent, and grayish fluid, not unlike white of egg, which is secreted in considerable quantity. As the process advances, it becomes thicker, more viscid and opaque, and sinks in water; and when fully established, this viscid mucus is either mingled with, or converted into yellowish opaque fluid, which can- not be distinguished from purulent matter, and which is generally more or less streaked with blood. These changes may be effected without breach of continuity or ulceration of the membrane. This fact, which was first established by De Haen,* has since been fully confirmed by Willan,f Badham,| George Pearson,§ and Hastings. || The process of suppurative secretion is attended with hectic fever and wasting. Though ulcers, however, are not essential to chronic inflammation of the bronchial membrane, they may occur, and are most common in the lungs of those whose occupation exposes them to inhalation of irritating mechanical powders. Such, for example, has dissec- tion shown to be the state of the bronchial membrane in stone- cutters,! glass-grinders, needle-grinders, and leather-dressers. c. Pustular Inflammation.—On the nature of a form of ulcer con- siderably different we have less certain information. In several cases of bronchial disease, the membrane becomes the seat of nume- rous minute eminences, which, as they may be traced through the stages of inflammation, suppuration, and ulceration, maybe regarded as pustules of the pulmonic mucous membrane. The ulcers thus formed are in general round or oval, rarely irregular, with margin slightly raised, and surrounded by a red circle, (areola,) more or less distinct. The matter expectorated consists of purulent fluid, streaked with blood, and mingled with a considerable proportion of dense mucus. The analogy between this and certain ulcers of the intestinal mucous membrane is obvious. It gives rise to wasting and hectic fever. d. Induration, Consolidation.—When chronic inflammation sub- sists long, the inflammatory action extends to the submucous fila- mentous tissue, which unites the bronchial tubes and vessels to the serous membrane of the lungs—the parenchymatous or cellular tissue * Rationis Medendi, I. xi. p. CO. + Reports, 1706, 20th March. $ Observations on the Inflammatory Affections of the Mucous Membrane of the Bronchia;, &c. pp. 48—76. § Phil. Trans. 180.9, Part ii. p. 315—321. || Treatise on Inflammation of the Mucous Membrane, &c. *H Johnstone of Worcester, Mem. Med. Society. 3