MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 559 On the minute structure of these follicles, all that is accurately known is the following. If we examine an isolated follicle, it pre- sents the most simple form of glandular arrangement. The intes- tinal mucous membrane is continued through the minute pore, which is situate at the apex of the follicle downward for about T^gth part of one line, forming a blind-sac, or cavity of a sac, and con- stituting in this manner a crypt or recess. The surface of this short passage is moistened by a fluid which is secreted from it. On this surface are ramified an infinite number of minute arteries and veins, which constitute the vascular system of the follicle. Be- neath the mucous membrane of the crypt is situate a close but fine filamentous tissue, which surrounds the arteries and veins now men- tioned. This filamentous tissue is gradually connected with that of the contiguous intestine. The existence of excretory ducts on the cryptic membrane has not been demonstrated. It is most pro- bable that upon the free surface of this the arteries open. The close filamentous tissue now mentioned as forming the pa- renchyma of the follicle, it is difficult to demonstrate in the healthy state. Some describe as silvery white, others as slightly yellow. When the follicles are affected by inflammation, it becomes thick, hard, and swelled, and it is then more distinctly seen. It then also becomes reddish, or yellow, or orange-coloured. What the structure of the isolated follicle is, such is that of the aggregated follicles, which, indeed, are merely many isolated fol- licles adjoining to each other, or united so as to form a patch, gag- men) (glandulce agminatce). Each agminated gland has its pore, its crypt, its cryptic membrane, its blood-vessels, and its cellular tissue. These glands have been denominated muciparous, and are sup- posed to secrete mucus. The fluid which issues from them appears to be thinner and more liquid than mucus. It may, however, un- dergo changes after its secretion. In certain regions of the mucous membranes, more especially at then connections with the skin, are found minute conical eminences denominated papilla. They are distinctly seen in the mucous membrane of the tongue, where they vary in size and shape, and in the body named clitoris. They are elevations belonging to the mucous corion, and they are liberally supplied by bloodvessels, the veins of which present an erectile arrangement, and with mi- nute nervous filaments. Of the intimate structure of these bodies, however, little more is known. They are covered by a true eni- dermis. 1