525 SKIN. From careful comparison of the most authentic accounts ol pes- tilential carbuncle, it commences as an inflamed spot in the corial surface and substance. 1 he inflammation of the surface speedily induces sero-albuminous secretion and detachment of the cuticle, which is elevated in the form of a bluish irregular blister; while be- yond this the skin is of a fiery-red colour, hard, and the seat of searing pain. The simultaneous inflammation of the corial sub- stance speedily kills that membrane, which is then felt in the form of a hard black mass, surrounded by living but highly inflamed skin. This dead portion is afterwards, if the patient survive, de- tached in the form of a mortified slough. The carbuncle of oriental plague seems not to be quite similar to the ordinary carbuncle seen in this country. c. Of the disease termed malignant pustule by the French, andMilz- brand, and Black-Pocks by the German authors, (Anthrahion; Nar al-Parsi; Persian Jire,) we can scarcely speak from experience in this country, in which, so far as I am aware, the disease is unknown. From the description given by Enaux and Chaussier, Yicq-D’Azyr, Pine!, Ozanam, Rausch, Hoffmann,* and Regnier,| it appears to consist in inflammation of the outer surface of the corion, speedily depriving that membrane of its vitality. It may commence in one of two modes; First, as a hard, red, burning, not elevated point, speedily causing bluish or reddish-blue fluid secretion, elevating the cuticle into a purple or pale-blue blister, (phlydtcena ;) Secondly, as a hard, knotty substance slightly elevated into a doughy swell- ing, and causing detachment of the cuticle by similar effusion. In both cases the affected corion undergoes mortification, partial or ge- neral, and is then detached as a foreign body. In some respects this resembles the ordinary carbuncle of this country. But it dif- fers particularly in this, that the malignant pustule (anthrahion,) is ascribed by the best authorities to contagion, and very often is traced to epizootic contagion, or pestilence occurring among the lower animals. Its presence depends on the local application of a morbid animal poison. d. The great pock, (ecthyma,) consists in an eruption of red, hard, sore pustules, (phlyzacia,) distinct, seldom numerous, without pri- mary fever, and not contagious. In the three species of ordinary * Der Milzbrand, oder Contagiose Caifunlcel der Menschen. Von Johann Frie- drich Hoffmann, Oberwnndarzt in Bernburg. Stuttgart, 1827. 8. t De la Pustule Maligne, ou Nouvelle Expose des Phenomenes observes pendant son cours, Par J. B. Regnier de Semur, Cote-d’or, I). M., &c. Paris, 1829. 0.