GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 100 observed at the flexures of joints than elsewhere. Aneurisms are also more frequent in men than in women. The following table by Mr Hodgson exhibits the comparative frequency of true aneu- risms in different arteries, and in the two sexes, in sixty-three cases in which that gentleman either saw the patients during life, or ex- amined the parts after death. ascending aorta, the arteria innominata, and the arch of the aorta, Males. Females. Total. 16 5 21 descending aorta, 7 1 8 carotid artery O 2 subclavian and axillary arteries, 5 5 inguinal artery, .... 12 12 femoral and popliteal artery, . 14 1 15 66 7 63 Aneurism in this country is most commonly seen in the arch of the aorta or innominata, or both. In the course of eight years I have observed nine cases, and dissected eight of these. Only one was in the abdominal aorta. 8. Cirsoid Aneurism of M. Breschet. Aneurysmci Cirsus. Au- eurysma Cirsoideum. Varix Arterialis of M. Dupuytren. Arterial Yarix. The name Cirsoid Aneurism is applied by Breschet to a tumour of an arterial tube or tubes, called by Dupuytren Arterial Varix, because arteries affected by it may he compared to varicose veins. It consists in dilatation of the vessel in a greater or less extent of its course, often through the whole length of the trunk and its princi- pal branches. The vessel at the same time becomes elongated and tortuous, and describes circuits more or less numerous and consi- derable. Sometimes, besides these sudden dilatations of the tube, in some parts are seen nodosities or little circumscribed aneurismal tu- mours, which are true sacciform aneurisms, and occasionally mixed aneurisms. Most frequently the parietes of the vessel are thin, soft, and flaccid; and when divided, they collapse like those of varicose veins; while in true cylindroid aneurism the parietes are thickened ; and if divided perpendicularly to their axis, the diameter (calibre) of the vessel re- mains open. The artery affected with varix resembles much a varicose vein, and for such it might easily be mistaken if injection or dissec- tion to the principal trunk did not demonstrate the nature of the organ. This kind of aneurism has been observed in the arteries of me-