GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 968 ease; atrophy; hsematocele; hydatoma or cystic disease of the testis; cystosarcoma; fibrous disease ; skirrhus ; enkephaloma ; and liolloma. § 1. Orchitis.—Inflammation is acute or chronic. In acute in- flammation the anatomical characters are more or less swelling and enlargement; sero-albuminous matter effused within the tunica va- ginalis ; lymph lining the tunic; the gland redder and more vas- cular than natural, though not much enlarged; bloody serum in- filtrated into its parenchyma; and effusion of a brownish coloured fluid into the cellular tissue of the epididymis and that connecting it to the testis,—causing enlargement and induration of that body. Inflammation affects more frequently the right testis than the left. Among 138 cases of orchitis, in 78 the right testis was af- fected ; in 49 the left; and in 11 cases both glands. The most usual causes are the poison of gonorrhoea; a blow or other violence on the gland ; urethral irritation; the previous ex- istence of mumps ; and probably rheumatism. This process may leave the testis a little enlarged and indurated; the epididymis much enlarged and indurated; or effusion of fluid within the vaginal coat forming hydrocele. § 2. Abscess in the centre of the Testis.—Suppuration is not a common result; but it may after some time ensue; and then it generally appears in the form of a collection of matter within the centre of the testis. This is not easily distinguished from chronic disease, as there is constant pain, some induration and some enlarge- ment. The disease is liable to he mistaken for malignant; and the testis may accordingly be removed.* But there is found only a quantity of greenish-yellow opaque purulent matter in a cavity or cyst in the centre of the gland, the walls of which are lined with lymph. This I have seen many years ago; and I find that the same had been met with by Sir A. Cooper. § 3. Obstruction of the Tubule—One of the effects of in- flammation, if obstinate and long continued, is the effusion of sero- albuminous matter within and around the tubuli. The serous part disappears; the albuminous or plastic matter remains, filling and obliterating the tubules, causing enlargement and induration, and afterwards if extensive, atrophy of the testis. When this effusion affects only a portion of the tubules it obliterates them so com- pletely that they no longer perform their functions of secreting canals; and the lymph outside causing them all to adhere, the part