PARASITICAL ANIMALS IN THE LIVER. IIYDATIDS. 905 these entozoa are very frequent; and the fluke, (Distoma hepati- cum,) especially, is seen often in the bile ducts of the liver. This is a broad, flat, lancet-shaped animal, from one to four lines long, and half a line to one line broad, which generally is found within the hepatic ducts and their branches. This animal has been found in the liver of the ox, the pig, the hare, and in that of man. In the last, however, it is greatly more rare. It was seen by Mal- pighi, Bauhin, Wepfer, Pallas, Chabert, Bucholz, and Brera. The presence of these animals causes some enlargement of the hepatic tubes, and consequent irregularity on the surface of the liver. In the lower animals, the walls of the tubes become ossified, and after some time the parasites die. b. The hydatid, (acephalocystis), is by far the most common para- site in the human liver; and while numerous instances of it are recorded, it is of no unfrequent occurrence. The liver, also, is the most common locality of these animals in the human body. Of the acephalocyst there are two sorts or species; one the manifold acephalocyst, (acephalocystis socialis ;) the other the soli- tary, (acephalocystis eremita vel solitaria.) In the former case numbers of hydatids are found in one or more cysts in the liver. In the latter in general only one or two large hydatids are found. The acephalocyst appears in the shape of a globular or roundish bladder, or a cubical shaped bladder with truncated and round- ed corners. In the manifold or social hydatid, the figure is in gene- ral round or globular ; but by pressure on each other the figure is often irregular. One large hydatid globule may contain twenty or thirty small-sized hydatids; or fifty or sixty hydatids of the diameter of half an inch or three quarters may be contained with- in one large cyst. In size hydatids vary from the volume of a hempsecd to that of an orange, or even larger. In the liver their most usual size is that of a middle-sized gooseberry; but of course this must depend on the length of time elapsed from their original development. Ihese bodies, whether large or small, consist of a thin, semi- transparent, or transparent, homogeneous membrane, in which by the naked eye, it is not possible to trace cither fibrillar or vascular arrangement, and which, externally, is smooth and uniform. In- ternally there are often eminences or inequalities, to which, in all