MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—HEMORRHAGE. 1005 It is remarkable, nevertheless, that this extravasation and its effects are greatest and most conspicuous in young persons. A degree of degeneration of the mitral valve and arctation of its aper- ture, which produces little inconvenience at or beyond the age of sixty years, causes between the ages of twenty and thirty extreme dyspnoea and orthopnoea, cough, haemoptysis, and all the accom- panying symptoms, with serous infiltration into the different cavi- ties and the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Much the same phenomena may take place in consequence of dilatation or hypertrophy, general or partial, of the left ventricle. Often, indeed, the dilatation or excentric hypertrophy and the con- centric hypertrophy are the result of disease of the semilunar valves at the origin of the aorta; but, in several instances, they take place independently of this. When they do ensue, they give rise to a similar state of imperfect transmission of the blood out of the ven- tricle into the aorta; the left ventricle, auricle, and pulmonary veins become unduly distended; and eventually the pulmonary capillaries are constantly distended with an unusual load of blood, which at length is extravasated, and causes the same state of the lung, and the same expectoration of blood, which takes place at an earlier period in the degeneration of the mitral valve. In either of these cases now specified, but especially in disease of the mitral valve and arctation of the auriculo-ventricular aperture m hypertrophy, and in that rare disease called partial aneurism of the heart, hemorrhage of the lungs may take place in one or other of the following modes. After a fit of great difficulty of breathing, generally with orthop- noea, a quantity of blood varying from one to six ounces is brought up forcibly by coughing. In one instance I saw nearly two pounds coughed up in the course of about thirty hours. In such cases the large fluid rattling and gurgling, is heard all over the chest, gene- rally on both sides. From this state recovery is sometimes but rarely effected. Death usually takes place in the course of a few days, not so much from loss of blood, which rather relieves the patient than otherwise, as from the extreme difficulty in breathing. The state of the lungs is then the following. They are completed gorged with blood; of a dark-red or very livid colour; and in several points brown masses not firm are formed, which are blood effused into the filamento-cellular tissue. When the case is recent these masses are few and small, sometimes on the margins of the