705 SEROUS MEMBRANE.— SUBSEROUS DEPOSITS. The purulent fluid in this case and many others is secreted partly from the surface of the inflamed membrane, partly from the orga- nized layer of lymph, partly from both. In the first case, the pu- riform or purulent fluid is secreted directly by the capillaries of the inflamed membrane. In the second, it is derived from those of the organized false membranes, which assume the suppurative action. In the third, both sets of vessels are concerned. These facts are demonstrated in instances of chronic pleurisy, and oi clno- nic inflammation of the pentonceum. § 5. A second effect of inflammation of the diaphanous membi ancs is effusion or secretion of fluid in the subserous filamentous tissue. When the arachnoid membrane is inflamed the delicate filamentous tissue which connects it to the pia mater is almost invariably dis- tended with serous fluid, more or less transparent. This change makes the arachnoid membrane look as it it were raised or detached from the pia mater by the interposition of a transparent or slightly opaque gelatinous matter uniformly spread between them. If a puncture or incision, however, be made, a small portion only trickles from it, being that which is exposed to the immediate incision. The fluid of the contiguous parts does not escape,—a circumstance which with inspection shows that it is contained in the interstices formed by the mutual crossing of the filaments of the subserous tissue. In this manner and in the same situation albuminous fluid may be effused, especially at the base of the brain. In pleurisy this effusion is less common, unless the pulmonic tissue is at the same time inflamed,—a peculiarity which appears to depend on the intimate union between the pleura and lungs. It nevertheless takes place and dissects the pleura from the substance of the lungs. In in- flammation of the pericardium it takes place beneath the cardiac fold of the membrane, and occasionally assumes the form of minute ab- matory exudation. We occasionally meet with collections of this kind in all the na- tural internal cavities of the body. I have seen it in great quantity in the cavity of the abdomen or of the peritonccwm, in that of the thorax or of the plewra, and in the perira/rd/ium, where there was no visible suppuration, ulceration, or dissolution of the solids, or any part of the surface all round. This kind of pus is generally thinner than that of an abscess ; and the containing surface is more or less covered with a glutinous concretion, or slough of the same colour as the fluid, in some parts adhering very loosely, in others so firmly, that it can hardly be rubbed off; but still the surface covered by these sloughs is without ulceration or loss of substance.”—Medical Obser- vations and Inquiries, Vol. ii. p. 61. Baillie, Morbid Anatomy, passim. Black, Clinical and Pathological Reports. Ncwry, 181!). Willan, Reports on the Diseases of London, 1707- P. 186. 8vo Edition, Y y