ADIPOSE TISSUE, 51 branches, the arrangement of which has been described by various authors from Malpighi, who gave the first accurate account, to Mascagni, to whom we are indebted for the most recent. Accoi d- ing to the latter, who has also delineated these vessels, the furrow or space between each packet contains an artery and vein, which being subdivided penetrates between the minute grains or particles of which the packet is composed, and furnishes each with a small artery and vein. The effect of this arrangement is, that each indi- vidual grain or adipose particle is supported by its artery and vein as by a foot-stalk or peduncle, and that those of the same packet are kept together not only by contact, but by the community of rami- fications from the same vessel. These grains are so closely attach- ed, that Mascagni, who examined them with a good lens, compares them to a cluster of fish-spawn, (iin aggruppimento di uova). Grutz- macher found much the same arrangement in the grains and vesi- cles of the marrow of bones, f It has been supposed that the adipose tissue receives nervous fila- ments, and Mascagni conceives he has demonstrated its lymphatics. Both points, however, are so problematical, that of neither of these tissues is the distribution known. The substance contained in these vesicles is entirely inorganic. Always solid in the dead body, it has been represented as fluid during life by Winslow,j TIaller,§ Portal, || Bichat,'1 and most au- * Malpighi’s description is not much less accurate than that of Mascagni. “ Vasa sanguinea expandunter in ramos arborum adinstar, quorum extremitatibus appendun- tur membranosi sacculi, seu lobuli, pinguedinosis globulis referti, qui veluti folia ramis adnata arboris exactam figuram complent.”—“ Per has membranas excurrunt minima vasa in modum retis expansa, qua; tenue omentum representant. Ilsec a venis et ar- teriis, ut videre potui, ortum ducunt, et non tantum levitur exterius piguedinis lobulos, sed etiam intime penetrant, et pinguedinosis globulis nectuntur.”—“ Quandoque autem co-operiuntur levi superextensa membrana, ita ut in conspectum non erumpant; emer- gunt autem, quotiescunque vetustate et carie membranoso: portiones corrumpuntur. Per hanc eandem membranam diramificantur adiposa vasa in omento reperta, qua: pingue- dine turgent, si praecipue in de recenti mactato animali inspiciantur.”—De Omento, Pinguedine et Adiposis Ductibus, p. 41. -f- De Ossium Medulla, 1748. Extat in Haller, Vol. VI. p. 390. I “ La graisse ou matiere graisseuse est plus coulante dans les vivans que dans les morts.”—Winslow, Traite des Tegumens, sec. 73. § Elementa Physiologia:, Lib. i. sect. 4. || “ La chaleur de la vie maintient la graisse dans une espece de fluidity ; elle se fige par le froid de la mort ; ce qui fait qu’elle est compacte dans les cadavres.”—Portal, Tome ii. p. 17. H “ Ijil graisse est presque toujours solide et figee dans les cadavres, mais sur lc vi_ vant clle s’approche plus de l’etat liquide, au moins dans certains parties, commc aux