general and pathological anatomy. 636 with air ; of a dark brown-red colour, and with its peritoneal coat covered and penetrated by an infinite number of red vessels. This piece of intestine formed in this state several turns or convolutions; and a considerable portion of it had been pushed over to the right side. The ileum above this was distended but less reddened. W hen cut open the contents were much as usual, but with more air. The mucous membrane was greatly reddened, friable, rough, and easily detached. The substance of the bowel was vascular and reddened. But of the follicles there was neither elevation nor ul- ceration. The ileo-caecal valve was reddened. The interior of the caecum was also reddened and softened ; but no ulceration had taken place. The appendix vermiformis presented a few enlarged follicles along its interior. The ascending arch of the colon was comparatively empty; and the rest of the bowel was pretty natural, and void of any thing except thin feculent matter and mucus. The mucous membrane of the colon was not unna- tural. External to the caecum, on the lateral and posterior aspects of that bowel, were deposits of purulent matter and loose lymph, ex- tending upwards and backwards for a good space. This purulent matter occupied the place of the perityphlic cellular tissue; was not contained within a distinct or well-formed cyst, but appeared to be loosely infiltrated into the space around the caecum. No perforation of the caecum had taken place. But all round the cellular tissue was reddened, softened, loaded with bloody serum and specks of purulent matter; and the parts were ash-coloured and offensive smelling, as if proceeding to mortification. In this case the cause of death was twofold. First, the general inflammation of the lower portion of the ileum (enteritis; ileitis), caused apparently by obstruction and distension of the whole bowel, in consequence of the pressure created by the inflammatory abscess round the caecum ; and secondly, this suppurative inflammation of the perityphlic cellular tissue itself, which, though operating chiefly as a cause of pressure on the caecum and obstruction to the peristal- tic motion of the bowel, yet did further mischief by the peculiar effects of a bad suppuration on the system at large. In this case also, there is every reason to believe that the pri- mary morbid action was seated in the perityphlic cellular tissue; and that the inflammation and suppuration there established had acted on the caecum by compressing it, and thus obstructing the descent of the contents of the ileum, had caused over-distension of