1012 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The tubercular masses receive not injection, and hence cannot be said to receive vessels from the large vessels of the lungs. At- tempts to inject tuberculated lungs were made by Dr William Stark; and he always found that the injection reached neither the vomicse nor the tubercular masses. He found that blood-vessels which were of considerable size, at a little distance from a tuber- cular mass or masses, speedily became contracted, so that a large vessel, which at its origin measured nearly half an inch in circum- ference, could not be cut open further than an inch; and that when cut open, such vessels presented a very small canal, which was tilled by fibrous substance, evidently albumen or coagulated blood. The same fact he also proved by blowing air into the vessels, or injecting them with wax. When air is blown into the vessels of a tuberculated lung, the air either does not pass along the vessels at all, or does so in a very imperfect manner, nor does air in this manner reach the vomicae. If coloured wax or isinglass be thrown into the pulmonary artery and vein, the parts least affected by disease, and which before injection are soft and elastic, become afterwards the hardest and firmest; and the parts most occupied by tubercular masses, and which before injection are hardest, become after it much softer than the others. When a lung so injected is divided by incision, numerous minute branches filled with injected matter are seen in the sound parts; but in the diseased parts, few or no injected branches; and the matter is ob- served never or seldom to enter the tuberculated masses or their vomicag. These and similar experiments were performed by Schroeder, who found that no vessels pass through the centre of a vomica, but are closed, and as it were truncated at the margin of the vomica; that in cases in which numerous vessels pass transversely across a vomica or ulcer, though many of them are filled with wax, when injected, yet the small or capillary branches adhere to the trunks externally like filaments, or in the form of slender cellular tissue, but are obstructed and impervious, so that they do not admit the injected matter; whereas the trunks penetrating the vomica are surrounded by no pulmonary parenchyma, excepting the filaments described as the remains of the capillary vessels. From these facts M. Schroeder concludes that the obliteration begins in the small vessels and proceeds to the large trunks; that this obliteration is the effect of inflammation of the vasa vasorum, 4