583 TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. of the older anatomists. Of this the first effect is redness, with vas- cular injection of the submucous tissue (mfarctio.) As the morbid state of the blood-vessels continues or increases, sero-albuminous fluid is effused into its interstices; the part loses its natural softness and elasticity ; and as the process extends, the lung loses the spongy lightness which depends on permeability of its vesicles. In a lung in which the chronic inflammation of the submucous tissue has subsisted for some time, the following phenomena are recognized : ls£, On opening the chest and admitting the air, though there are no adhesions, the lung collapses imperfectly or not at all; '2d, I he pulmonic tissue surrounding a portion of inflamed membrane be- comes hard and dense, and floats deep or sinks in water ; od, De- prived of its elasticity and compressibility, it cannot be inflated, does not crepitate, and resembles a portion of solid flesh. In such circumstances bronchial inflammation is complicated with pneu- monia. e. Bronchitis from the presence of foreign bodies.—Bronchitis alienorum.—A variety of chronic bronchial inflammation, important from its close resemblance to consumption, is that occasioned by the presence of foreign bodies which have dropped accidentally into the windpipe. Of this species of disease many cases are recorded, as having occurred to different observers ; and the facts of these cases show at once the influence of the cause alleged in producing chronic, bronchial, and occasionally pulmonary inflammation, closely imitating pulmonary consumption, and the great efforts made by the system in striving to get rid of a source of great and possibly fatal irrita- tion. Foreign bodies which drop into the air passages may produce one of two effects. First, a foreign body dropping into the larynx may, by fixing itself in the ventricles, or in the rirua glotticlis, cause immediate suffocation. This result will depend on its shape, or its consistence, and its size. Thus, portions of food masticated, or imperfectly masticated, are occasionally observed to produce suffo- cation and immediate death. Or, secondly, a foreign body may drop into the larynx, and by passing entirely through the rima glottklis, may get into the windpipe and one of the bronchial tubes, and stopping there, cause great irritation and inflammation of the parts, indicated by frequent, urgent, and distressing cough; fits of difficult breathing; expectoration of dense, puriform mucus, often vutli blood ; and wasting of the flesh and strength of the individual, nearly in the same manner and to the same extent as in pulmo-