645 INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE— INDURATION. came thick, soft, and gave way; and the destructive process thus begun advanced, forming an ulcer with hard, white, opaque edges. The tubercular granulations, which were less frequent, were nevei seen near the duodenum, and, always most numerous neai the coecum, occupied indiscriminately any point of the bowel. They terminated by softening in minute ulcers. It does not appear that the ulcers thus formed are ever cicatrized.* When cicatrization either of the simple or the tubercular ulcer does not take place, or takes place imperfectly, yet without causing immediate death, it gives rise to the symptoms denominated lientei'y (\sisvregjK, slippery bowels); and its natural termination is dropsy, abdominal and general. By these ulcers the colon is occasionally perforated with the same effects as other parts of the canal. Haller records an instance in which an ulcer of the transverse arch, by gradual absorption, perforated the coats of the stomach ;f and Lowdell mentions one in which an ulcer of the sigmoid flexure effected an opening into the urinary bladder.^ § 9. Inflammatory induration. Skleroma.—Another effect of in- flammation common to the gastro-enteric mucous membrane with others is more or less permanent thickening of its substance, or that of the submucous tissue, inducing contraction of the capacity of the canal. This takes place in the oesophagus, in the cystic and common bile ducts, and in the intestines, small and great. In the oesopha- gus it constitutes one of the most manageable forms of stricture of that tube, in so far as the swelling, under proper management, occa- sionally disappears. (Grashuis, Bleuland, Monro, Howship.) Its most usual seat is in the neighbourhood of the cricoid cartilage, and occasionally at the car lia. A good example of the former is de- lineated by Dr Armstrong. In the common biliary duct I have seen this inflammatory thickening give rise to jaundice ; and I sus- pect this, and not spasm of the tube, is the most frequent cause of biliary obstruction. In the ileum this contraction is perhaps less frequent than in the colon. Yet in the case above-mentioned the diameter of the bowel was very much diminished, chiefly by inflam- mation of the submucous and subserous filamentous tissue; and Dr Charles Combe records an interesting example of thickening of the lower end of the ileum, in which the capacity of the bowel°was di~ * Recherches Anatomico-Puthologiques sur la Phthisic. ' Paris, 1825. + Opuscula Patholog. $ Mem. Med. Society.