PREFACE. VI diligently explored; and if the result has not at all times been ab- solute discovery, some advantage has accrued from the correction or the modification of former statements. The advantage to the science at large has nevertheless been ac- companied with great and increasing inconvenience to the student. The recorded information is scattered through so many volumes, that the usual period allotted to the acquisition of knowledge is quite inadequate to consult them in the most cursory manner. Many of the most valuable papers also are contained in periodical works, in which it is not always easy to peruse them. In short, so great is the accumulation of materials, yet so dispersed and mul- tiplied, that the most intrepid diligence is disconcerted, and the most indefatigable perseverance is exhausted. To alleviate, if not to remove, some of these difficulties, the most obvious plan is to classify the principal facts, which it is important for the student to know ; to reduce to general h'eads the numerous, isolated, and not unfrequently unarranged facts, recorded by diffe- rent observers; to reconcile what is discordant; to explain what is anomalous; to distinguish the essential from the accidental,—the important from the trivial; and to exhibit in a connected and sys- tematic shape those deductions and inferences, which are justified by accurate analytic comparison of the best authenticated facts. Though these are the objects which have been held in view in the composition of the present volume, it can only be determined by others, with what success they have been attained. In the arrangement of the materials of which it consists, I found it impossible to adopt the methods in ordinary use. Without pre- tending to determine the comparative merits of the methods of Baillie, Conradi, Meckel, and Cruveilhier, each of which has pecu- liar advantages, I may be permitted to observe, that the first ob- ject in tracing the progress and effects of pathological processes is to fix the boundary between what is sound and what is morbid, and that every morbid process always bears some relation to the proper characters of the texture in a sound state. For these reasons, I have chosen as the basis of arrangement, the distinctions of the com-