GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 90 the two tissues. In the inner membrane chronic inflammation may cause partial effusion of lymph, which becoming organized gives rise, as already mentioned, to the production of fungous growths and vegetations. It may render the membrane opaque and thick, and give it a shrivelled puckered appearance. It may cause a tu- bercular thickening either of the membrane or of the semilunar valves. It may induce gristly induration especially in these and in the mitral valve. Or, lastly, there is reason to believe it is often the agent of the processes next to be considered,—calcareous de- position, steatomatous deposition, and atheromatous deposition. When it causes tubercular thickening, the inner surface of the aorta from the semilunar valves upwards along the whole course of the arch is covered with small irregular-shaped orbicular emi- nences, placed at irregular intervals along the course of the cylinder of the artery. From this they extend into the innominata, the left carotid and left subclavian, and often they are found beyond the arch at the origin of the intercostal arteries. < These bodies, for which their shape and appearance has procured the name of tubercles and warts, I think are merely lymph of a particular kind deposited either by the inner coat, or, as sometimes seems to be the case, by the middle coat, in a state of chronic in- flammation, and assuming the tubercular or verrucose shape, ap- pearance, and disposition. The opinion that cartilaginous and osseous induration of the se- milunar and mitral valves depends on chronic inflammation, derives great probability from several circumstances observed in the origin and progress of these changes. In the first place, in the serous membranes the formation of cartilaginous and osseous patches is often preceded by distinct marks of inflammation. Though we cannot prove absolute identity between these textures and the inner cardiac and arterial membrane, yet, as in many of their properties they are very similar, there is reason to believe that in this also they resemble each other. In the second place, after or along with rheumatic attacks, it is not uncommon to observe symptoms ot a morbid state in one or both sets of valves ; symptoms of rigidity and immobility ; and symptoms of more or less contraction ol the orifices which they form. Thirdly, the presence ol more or less disease in the semilunar aortic valves is usually associated with in- dications of the effects of chronic inflammation of the aortic lining membrane; roughness of its interior caused by tubercular, steato- matous, or atheromatous growths.