ADIPOSE TISSUE. G3 cool; and the constitutional symptoms decline upon the eruption of a copious sweat, a cutaneous disease or other critical action. It may terminate in abscess. The inflammatory action changes its character, and, instead of spreading, shows a disposition to stop. Lymph is effused, healthy purulent matter is formed, and adhesion taking place in one or more points, the disease terminates in phleg- monic suppuration. In some instances the spreading and limited may be combined. The spreading or diffuse inflammation proceeds at one part of the affected tissue, while the limited with lymphy effusion and adhesion appears at another. This appears to be the fact in those tedious cases in which the disease is prolonged for weeks, and the patient either recovers, or ultimately dies hectic. When recovery takes place after suppuration and sloughing of the adipose and cellular tissue, it is effected partly by direct adhe- sion taking place between the muscles or their cellular substance, and the skin, partly by the formation of new cellular tissue similar to those new membranes which are formed in the serous surfaces. The former is the cause of the stiffness, immobility, and condensa- tion of parts after this inflammation has taken place. The causes of this disease are not well known. There is reason to believe that it requires for its production a peculiar state of the constitution; for it more readily attacks the bloated and those of broken constitutions than the spare and the vigorous; it is more common and more severe in the corpulent and plethoric than in those of healthy and active habits; it is more common in those liable to mental inquietude and peevishness than to those of equable or indifferent temperament; and the same exciting cause which produces in a young and healthy subject a common phlegmonic abscess, will be followed in a sallow or middle-aged person, of dry or unctuous skin, with a fatal inflammation of the diffuse character. Something also appears to be attributable to epidemic influence; for several cases are generally remarked to occur much about the same time; and it has been further remarked, that when rose, scarlet fever, and bad sore throat prevail, instances of diffuse inflam- mation are not unfrequent. With regard to agents which appear to possess exciting power, it may occur spontaneously : but has been observed to succeed the following circumstances; venesection and punctured wounds in general, application of a ligature to a vein, puncture by a cutting