GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 604 strong resonance of the voice at the upper part of the right side of the chest; and the cardiac and arterial beats were heard most audibly. Yet, though the symptoms continued long, there was no distinct indication of pectoriloquy. The subclavian and pectoral regions also before, and the scapular behind, emitted a dull sound. These symptoms, which were attended with wasting and much loss of strength, after lasting for many weeks, at length subsided; and she seemed to recover completely. The dull sound on percussion continued, however; and little respiratory murmur was audible in the upper region of the right demithorax either before or behind. The air, indeed, seemed not to enter the bronchial tubes of the right lung above at all; and only a little respiration was audible along the back close to the spine, and in the lower region of the chest. She died about two years after of a different disease, and inspection presented the following appearances. The whole of the upper lobe of the right lung and part of its middle lobe was firm and solid, and inelastic like a mass of solid flesh. The pleura adhered behind, and partly on the sides, and a little anteriorly. On dividing this portion of solidified lung, the bronchial tubes were found to be closed, except at the apex and near the spine, where they were still pervious for the space of not more than half an inch. The pulmonic substance itself was firm, of a light red colour, but totally uncrepitating, and did not admit the air from the tubes. It sunk in water like a stone. On tracing the tubes, they seemed to be compressed together into ligaments or cords, quite solid and impervious; but it was not easy to say whether they had been filled with matter effused from within their canals or exterior to them. It seems also impossible to doubt that when pneumonia proceeds to abscess or vomica, it in like manner entails obliteration of the bronchial tubes; and, if the patient be not destroyed by the dis- ease, various tubes are found obliterated. Obliteration is also observed in those cases in which tubercular masses are broke down and expelled by expectoration, whether any attempt to close the vomica and heal it is made or not. Lastly, in the form of pneumonia denominated lobular, or where there appears to be inflammation of the terminal ends of the bronchi, obliteration at these ends is very common, in consequence of effusion of albuminous matter from the raucous membrane of their terminal extremities. This effusion or deposit, however, is