GLANDULAR TISSUE—ACINT. 709 different periods, by different authors. The word akinos, acinus, and acinum, from the Greek axmg and axovog, was used by ancient writ- ers to signify a grape-stone, the kernel of a pomegranate, or the grain or stone of any stone-fruit. By Glisson, Wharton, and Mal- pighi it was adopted to designate certain hypothetical parts of glan- dular structure, into which they thought that glandular structure might be finally resolved. This Malpighi studied to render more definite by saying, that in the liver acini were small elementary bodies, hexahedral or polyhedral, or even spherical in shape ex- ternally, but with an inner cavity, and thickish parenchymatous walls. These acini are further called, both by Malpighi and Boer- haave, one of his great defenders, utriculi, or membranous sacculi. These bodies Malpighi represents to be round and hollow in the kidneys. To this view Malpighi probably, and Boerhaave certainly, was led by analogy between crypts and the ultimate elements of large conglomerate glands. Ruysch, on the other hand, who admitted the existence of acini or actnuli in glands, maintained that they presented nothing in common with crypts, because they appear'not like hollow mem- branes, and because they have no emissary canal. He further i maintained that these acini are composed of the final extremities of blood-vessels, united so as to form globular or spherical bodies* and he altogether denies cavity and emissary tube. | After the time of these anatomists, the word appears to have j been used either without definite meaning, or in different senses. At one time and with one set of writers it means a clustered struc- ture; {structura racemosa); with another it is used to designate a granular structure, or a substance composed of minute granules, As, however, many glands contain none of this acinated or gra- nular structure, Muller in a great degree renounces the term • and preferably employs the name of elementary particles of glands, or ENDS OR roots of secreting ducts ; because under these names maybe included the several denominations of vesicles vtnculi tubules, follicles, cells, and canals, straight and serpentine.’ pt which glands consist. 1 Weber applies the term acini to the shut ends of the excretory ^»!7tCLEP“‘rtnal0miC* ^ S‘n,Cl'“ H. Bosrh^e,