915 ENKEPHALOMA OF THE LIVER. cells may be the same; yet the structure, that is, the arrangement and contents of the cells, may be totally different. The question is further one which, it is clear, the microscope is not adequate to deter- mine. Careful comparison of the enkephaloid structure shows that it resembles neither cellular tissue, nor fat, nor lard, nor brain, nor gland, nor cartilage, nor bone, but is peculiar in resembling itself alone, and in undergoing peculiar changes. Enkephaloma appeal’s in the liver in several different modes. First, It may appear in that gland and in no other tissue ; and the masses may gradually enlarge until they coalesce and occupy the largest portion of the hepatic structure. They may attain a considerable size before the fatal event takes place. Secondly, Encephaloma may appear in the liver along with or after the development of enkephaloid tumours in one or more of the abdo- minal viscera, or in the interperitoneal and mesenteric cellular tissue. Thirdly, A mode not unusual in which it appears is the follow- ing. A tumour of suspicious character appears in the breast of a female, and after some time it is removed by the surgeon. The wound is healed; but in the course of eight, ten, or twelve months, the patient complains of tightness and fulness in the right hypochon- driac region, and in the abdomen generally. In the former there is irregular swelling; fluid is effused within the abdomen; and after two or three months more, death ensues. The liver is found quite occupied with large enkephaloid, whitish, or whitish gray masses. The same structure affects the diaphragm, and spreads into the lower lobe of the right lung. This I have seen take place more than once. The tumour removed from the breast is not al- ways quite the same. Sometimes it presents the whitish lard-like structure of enkephaloma; sometimes it presents the characters of pancreatic sarkoma; and in various instances it has presented those of alveolar or areolar cancer. Fourthly, Dr Alderson gives several examples of disease of the stomach and liver, in which the former organ presented the areolar and colloid cancer, and the latter presented distinct and unequivo- cal masses of enkephaloid structure. If all the facts now adduced be well ascertained and constant, and I can vouch for the truth of the three .first, it follows that en- kephaloma is allied to other forms of cancerous disease, and that it may be regarded as the form which pancreatic or alveolar cancer of the external organs assumes in the liver. The same morbid action which produces the pancreatic and alveolar deposit in the