BONE. 483 children are sometimes affected with pulmonary catarrh, and em- physema of the lungs. This disease may prove fatal during the first days or wreeks of existence; and if it do not, it gradually wears down the sufferers by certain steps to extreme emaciation and debility, terminating in death. Though I have mentioned these two instances of deformity of the bones together, and though in several respects they strongly re- semble each other, yet I am not sure that they are exactly alike. It is remarkable that M. Dupuytren says nothing of any cartilagi- nous union of the ribs at the point of depression,—a circumstance which, if present, could scarcely have escaped the notice of M. Breschet. On the other hand, in the case detailed by myself, though the child had died of a bronchitic attack, the tonsils were not larger than usual. Again, I see daily young persons with tonsils more or less enlarged, some so much that I know the presence and degree of the enlargement by hearing them speak ; yet in these I see no deformity of the walls of the thorax. I think it, nevertheless, highly probable that both affections, whether they are to be regarded as alike or different, depend on, or are connected with the same general cause; some peculiar state of the osseous system, by which its ossification at the normal rate is retarded. It is necessary to say, that this congenital depression of the tho- racic walls must not be confounded with a depression which also takes place in infants and children, in connection with chronic pneu- monia, pleurisy, empyema, tubercles, and other affections of the lungs. The depression here adverted to is the effect of the great and incessant efforts made to dilate and compress the lungs, in the laboured actions of respiration induced by morbid states of the lungs. 5. Rickets. Rachitis.—This disease, of which no distinct trace is found in the writings of the ancients, or in those of the authors of the middle ages, was first described by Glisson as appearing in England in the course of the 17tli century. Though still frequent in these islands, it is not peculiar to them ; and it is by no means unknown in other countries of Europe. In the time of Petit it was common in France. At present it appears to be occasional- ly seen in Belgium and Holland. Notwithstanding the fact above mentioned, the disease is not to be regarded as new. Its oc- currence in infancy only was the cause of its escaping observa-