GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 774 the gland which appears first presents the most simple formation. 1 hus the pancreas is the most simple in fishes, the liver in the lower classes of animals, and the kidneys in fishes and amphibia. And when any gland appears first in any order of animals, it is formed either of intestinules or follicles, or tubules. XX. The substance of the canals in the glandular tissue is either whitish, or whitish-gray, or whitish-orange, however different be the colour of the secreted products. There is, therefore, no perfect re- semblance between the glandular substance and the secreted pro- duct, as has been erroneously stated by several writers. XXI. The elementary parts of glands, viz. cells, vesicles, utri- culi, follicles, tubules, &c., always consist of one single tissue. The excreting duct only consists sometimes of several, sometimes of two membranes, the inner of which, being usually continuous with the mucous membrane, is generally of the same nature, while the ex- ternal passes in the substance of the gland into the proper substance of the canals. The other external membranes of the excretory ducts, fibrous, or adventitious cellular, terminate in the beginning of the gland, are sometimes continued in the fibrous investment of the gland, as in the poison-gland of serpents. In certain cases the fibrous investment of a gland transmits processes between the seg- ments and lobules, as in the poison-glands of the Trigonocephalus, in the salivary glands of serpents and Birds, and in the anal glands of the mole. The gland is then divided into compartments, and the lobules are contained within septa or partitions, though exter- nally it appears, and is erroneously considered to be, uniformly parenchymatous. More frequently, however, the lobules of a gland are united by loose cellular tissue and vessels. XXII. The nerves of glands accompany the arteries and veins in general regularly, and form slender plexuses over the large branches; and nowhere do the nerves separate from the blood-ves- sels ; so that they may be re garded as rather foreign to the glandu- lar structure. XXIII. These ducts, canals, or intestinula, are all lined or form- ed internally or at the free surface by a membrane continuous with some mucous membrane. This membrane has been called epithe- lium by the revival of a name formerly in use. It consists of cells, mostly nucleated, mingled with granules irregularly dispersed. These cells are clear and colourless, but often scattered with small punctulu. The nucleus is round or oval, from <3 to 33<> o °* a Paris inch in diameter, more or less flat, generally colourless or