304 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. occur; after 50 it becomes more common; between 60 and 70 is more frequent; becomes of the same rate of frequency after 70 as before 60, and is very rare after the 80th year. Of the cases given by Lerminier and Serres, though two are between 30 and 35, the great part are between 60 and 75. The state of the cerebral circulation now described is understood to depend exclusively on the vessels of that organ, and to consti- tute, therefore, primary apoplexy. The same state, or a near ap- proach to it, may take place secondarily in at least two different states of the system ; first, as a consequence of injuries of the head; and, secondly, in the course of fever intermittent, remittent, or con- tinuous. The first shall be considered afterwards. The second, or the febrile apoplexy, belongs to this place. a. Apoplexia Febricosa. The best example of this occurs in certain forms of ague, accompanied with marks of great accumu- lation in the head. It takes place chiefly at the termination of the cold stage, and the commencement, or in the course of the hot. In a slight degree the paroxysm is attended with drowsi- ness or lethargy, from which the patient may still be roused. When this recurs once or twice, the insensibility is more complete, till the phenomena of perfect apoplexy are induced. In other instances after dull heavy pain of the head, dizziness, impaired vision, and some affection of the urinary secretion, the individual falls down suddenly with the mouth open, the eyelids fluttering, and other marks of relaxed muscles; and continues during the rest of the paroxysm in a stertorous sleep. This may cease spon- taneously, or terminate in death, unless the paroxysm, which is generally protracted to twenty-four hours, and follows the tertian type, is finished. Though this is most frequent in the tertian, it is not uncommon in the quartan and quotidian. The cases examined necroscopically show the cerebral vessels to be much distended with blood, sometimes bloody extravasation. In other instances which belong to a different head, the distended vessels are accompanied with serous effusion between the membranes, or within the cavities. The anatomical character of soporose ague is therefore inordinate injection of the cerebral and cerebro-menin- geal capillaries. This constitutes in various degrees the sleepy quotidian (C. Tiso, Obs. 178,) the sleepy, lethargic, hemiplegic, car otic, and apoplectic tertian, (Werlhof, Torti, Lautter, Morton,) and the comatose quar- tan (Piso, Werlhof;) and is the disease which has been named by 3