GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 236 The anterior-upper lobe, with four sides and four angles, named therefore by Malacarne the quadrilateral or four-aided lobe, (yier- seilige, Reil,) approaches somewhat to the figure of the trapezoid. It is bounded by three curved margins and one straight one. Of the former, the most anterior forms one-half of the semilunar fis- sure ; while the posterior, which is also the longest, and parallel to this, is a curvilinear or circular tract (the great furrow,) extending from the bottom of the purse-like fissure behind to the anterior outline of the hemisphere before, where it terminates about one inch from the end of the semilunar fissure. This last space be- tween the anterior end of the great furrow forms the third curved margin of the four-sided lobe; while its straight margin is made by the middle line, which here is common to the two lobes. Ma- lacarne further divides this lobe into five lobules, and describes the limits of each with minuteness and accuracy. For the details of these distinctions 1 refer to the original. The posterior-upper lobe—the second division of the upper he- mispherical surface—may be defined in the following manner. The circular tract or great furrow, which I have already said forms the posterior margin of the four-sided lobe, is its anterior boun- dary. The hemispherical outline of the upper surface, if traced from before backwards, will be found to coincide about 1^ inch, sometimes more, from the purse-like notch, with a considerable furrow (the horizontal,) which turns round at the purse-like notch to meet the great furrow already mentioned. The curved outline thus continued is the outer boundary of the posterior lobe ; and it is easy to perceive, that, in consequence of the direction which this line observes, and its meeting with the great furrow, the lobe is contained between the horizontal and great furrow, or between two curved lines. This lobe is subdivided by Malacarne more mi- nutely than the former. It is found, however, that the number of lobules is not the same in both,—those of the left being most uniformly about eight, while those of the right are more numerous, but in general less distinctly marked. These with the central lobe, the general situation of which has been already noticed, form the several divisions of the upper region of the cerebellic laminated surface. The inferior region presents divisions more numerous, more complicated, and more interesting. The first of these, the posterior-lower, is contiguous, at its outer or greater boundary, with the posterior-upper lobe, where a small