GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1018 pally from the centre to the circumference, a mass of lung thus occupied becomes solid and granular in the centre, and softer at its margins. The shape of the tubercular mass thus formed depends on the structure of the lung,—a circumstance on which authors have not bestowed sufficient attention. The lobes of the lungs consist of lobules united by cellular tissue; and each lobule receives a sepa- rate bronchial tube, which terminates in many air-cells, all pervious to air, and a peculiar artery and vein, each subdivided into many minute vessels, all penetrable by injected fluids in the sound state. It hence results that the beginning of tubercular deposition is confined at first to one lobule only, without affecting the contiguous lobules, and is recognized only by the greater opacity and firmness of that lobule than of the healthy ones. It is also found, by injecting the arteries and veins of the lung, that some lobules are less penetrated with this tubercular deposition than others, the vessels of the for- mer being more susceptible of injection, while those of the latter are few in number and less penetrable by injection, and diminish in this manner in number and susceptibility of injection, till in the truly and perfectly tuberculated lobule the small vessels are com- pletely shut and obliterated, and the large one only remains per- vious. In such lobules the structure of the lung can no longer be traced ; the shape of the air-cells is destroyed ; and in the centre of these tuberculated lobules, which is hollow, suppuration has commenced. Such tuberculated lobules are whiter than the ad- joining ones, and are surrounded by thick cellular tissue separating them from the adjoining lobules, which may at this stage of the disease be less affected. Very soon, however, the air-cells of these lobules become penetrated by the same deposition, which in like manner becomes opaque and firm, and agglutinates the cells into a similar firm, inelastic mass, also surrounded by indurated filamen- tous tissue. When at length several lobules have in this manner become penetrated and occupied by tubercular deposition, with the suppurative destruction proceeding in their respective centres, the coalescence into a single undistinguishable mass is followed by the union of their respective minute cavities into one or more larger ones. In the course of this process, the cellular, or rather what I term the filamentous, tissue of the lung being placed outside the penetrated cells, naturally resists longest the suppurative process, and may even become thickened and indurated. At length, howr-