GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 980 a'r’ wluc*1 *ie terins intercellular, continue in the same direction as the tubes of which they are continuations, but without perceptible membranous lining; that the diameter of the ultimate bronchial tubes is from ^ to ^ of one inch; that they communicate with but few cells; that the intercellular passages, the intralobular of Mi Addison, are at first of a circular form, communicating also with few cells; but as they approach the surface of a lobule, their number increases, and at length these communicating openings are so numerous and so close, that the intercellular passage loses its circular figure, and forms an irregular-shaped passage running be- tween air-cells, and communicating with them in all directions, and having arrived at the surface ofa lobule, it terminates in an air-cell, which is not dilated, but is in truth of the same size as the passage. The air-cells are small, irregularly-shaped, yet most frequently four-sided cavities, varying in size in different parts of the same lung. Those are smallest, as well as most vascular, which are situ- ate nearest the centre; while their size increases, and their vascu- larity diminishes, as they extend into remote parts. The air-cells situate close to the bronchial tubes, or intercellular passages, open into them by large circular apertures; while those placed further from these passages, communicate with them through the medium of other cells. Besides these intervening air-cells, there are others which fill the angle formed by the bifurcation of the intercellular passage, and which thus appear to form a communication between them. Mr Rainey controverts the statement made by Mr Addison, that in the lungs of the foetus, the air-cells are not developed. He in- jected the lungs of various foetal animals which had never breathed^ and found, on examining them with the microscope, that the air- cells were developed proportionally with other parts of the lungs. He adds, however, that in the very young foetus, the septa, or partitions between the air-cells, consist almost entirely of minute cellules or granules, and a small quantity of fibrous tissue, with scarcely any blood-vessels; and that, as the age of the foetus ad- vances, this granular matter diminishes, while the capillaries in- crease, so that at birth the same arrangement of the air-cells and the other parts of the lungs is observed as in after life. The capillaries of the lungs are situate, or contained within, a fold of membrane. Traced from the peripheral to the central parts, this membrane lines first the air-cells which are next the surface of