GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 412 CHAPTER II. Section I. sinew, tendon, Tendo, Sinew or tendon was united by Bichat with ligament, fascia, aponeurosis, and periosteum, under the general name of fibrous system; and the substance of this arrangement has been adopted by Gordon, Meckel, and Beclard. I am inclined, however, from personal observation, to regard tendon as essentially distinct, at least in the present state of knowledge, from these substances. Examined anatomically, it does not bear a very close resemblance to any of them, and in its known chemical properties, it is consi- derably different. The appearance of this substance must be familiar to all. Al- most cylindrical in shape, but flattened at the muscular end, and tapering where inserted, a tendon consists of numerous white lines as minute as hairs, of satin-like glistening appearance, placed parallel and close to each other. A tendon is easily divided, and torn into longitudinal or parallel portions, and by the forceps very minute fibres may be detached and removed with ease, its whole length. These facts show the great tenacity of this tissue, and the regular parallelism with which the component fibres are united. The last circumstance distinguishes them completely from liga- ments and periosteum, in which the fibres cross in all directions, and in consequence of which these tissues cannot be so easily split or separated. These fibres are united by filamentous tissue. Tendon is softened and more easily separable by maceration in water or alkaline fluids; it is crisped by acid fluids, and rendered translucent by immersion in oil of turpentine. It has not been in- jected, but it is presumed to have blood-vessels and absorbents. No nerves have been traced into it. Tendon when boiled becomes soft and large, assumes the ap- pearance of a transparent gelatinous substance; and finally, if the boiling be continued, is dissolved and converted into gelatine. This fact, which is well known to cooks, who prepare jellies from tendinous parts of young animals, shows that tendon consists prin- cipally of gelatine, disposed in an organized form.