MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS IN CONSUMPTION. 1033 from constant tracheo-bronchial irritation, partly as the effect of exhaustion from annihilated respiration. Notwithstanding the frequency of this as the usual termination of the process of tubercular destruction, softening, and excavation, there is reason to believe that, in an extremely small proportion of cases, recoveries from very ominous states take place after all the usual signs of consumption have existed for a sufficient time to rendei the conclusion probable that these symptoms were caused by tubeicular softening and excavation. As the evidence of this fact is at once doubtful and important, it is best to state it, as it most usually is observed. 1. It occasionally happens, that, in inspecting the bodies of per- sons destroyed by several different diseases, there is observed in the upper lobe of the lungs a peculiar morbid state. The pleura is puckered and shrivelled into small, firm, irregular portions, in which there is distinctly felt a sort of leathery firmness, and beneath that a spot or body or round globular, pretty firm and resisting. . ;ien thls 1S div,ded, the pleura is found to be shrivelled and a little indurated, contracted downwards and inwards upon the hard body, and the substance of the lung hardened and shrinking, en- closing the hard body, which is then found either like a portion of soft putty or more consistent like chalk, slightly moistened with water. This is regarded as a cicatrized or contracted vomica. 1 he putty-like or chalky contents are the thicker part of the soft- ened matter of the tubercle after the thinner have been expecto- rated or removed by absorption. In cases of this kind, in which such chalk-like masses usually encysted, are contained in the apex or upper regions of the upper lobes, the rest of the lungs are in general either free from tubercular masses, or are little occupied by them, or present some miliary tubercles disseminated through In some instances, these solid bodies are perfectly firm and almost stony, grating against the knife. J Changes of this kind, however, M. Louis thinks, do not depend W^and rtTnatH °n' u-T the soundness of the rest of the ung and the small space which such bodies occupy, it is possible sffil doSG P ,lke °dl?S may be Patous masses in the early stage degenerated, and the calcareous concretions, phlebolites or concretions in parts of the lungs previously inflamed. ‘ Jn her instances> however, appearances of a less equivocal nature are recoded. In examining the bodies of peril ° ho