983 MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—PNEUMONIA. tensity of the lesion. In cases in which it affects only one lung, or part of one, or part of both, recovery is more easily effected. In the second stage, the lung is a little firmer and more resistent, and may project beyond the ribs when the chest is opened. It is more thoroughly loaded with blood; and blood begins to be sepa- rated into blood-jufaswza (liquor sanguinis), and serum, in being effused into the filamento-cellular tissue. The blood is sometimes found infiltrated extensively into the lower part of the lung, and is not separated decidedly into lymph or clot and serum. Its pre- sence, however, renders the lung dark-red or brown, massy, and consistent; yet it crepitates in various parts; and in others it is cedematous, not unfrequently receiving the impression of the ribs. In this state it commonly affects most the lower and middle lobes. A lung in this state shows, when examined, that its tissue is ra- ther closer than usual, and contains a large quantity of blood in its vessels and filamento-cellular tissue; and blood is beginning to be effused into the air-cells. This is the state called obstruction by Laennec. It is the close of the state of congestion or injection. In the third stage, a new series of phenomena is observed. The blood, which had been previously in vessels mostly, and was fluid or at most only beginning to become fixed, is now observed to be extravasated into the interstices of the filamento-cellular tissue. The part or parts of the lung thus affected are not only dark-red or violet-coloured, but solid, firm, do not crepitate, and when cut and washed, though they effuse blood and bloody serum, the section shows patches of a rough granular aspect, as if Uiey consisted of small granules aggregated together, and which are solid, not com- pressible, and manifestly totally different from the contiguous por- tions of lung. At first these patches or portions with soft intervals are small. Afterwards they are large; and in some instances a large portion of lung at once passes into this red, solid, rough, granular condition. The appearance now described is produced by blood effused into the filamento-cellular tissue; and the effusion thus taking place closes and obliterates the small bronchial tubes and air-cells. Blood may be effused into these parts also, and commonly is effused. I his is the stage of red solidification, consolidation, or hepatiza- tion. Its colour is various shades of red, according to the state of file effusion and the duration of the disease. In some instances it