GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 614 Dr C. Smyth, the patient had occasional but not severe pain at the stomach. In that by Dr Baillie, the patient had violent occasional pain m the scrobiculus cordis, with vomiting, most liable to ensue after meals. In most of the other cases, the sense of pain was either trifling or not uniform. But in all there appears to have been a sense of dull gnawing or aching, either constant or pretty frequent. In one of the cases seen by myself, though the patient always complained of pain, it was referred to a point deep in the epigastric region, towards the spine,—a peculiarity which I think was due to irritation of the extremities of the nervous filaments sent along the small arch. The pulse is not much affected in this disease. The circumstances now remarked, however, apply only to the early stage of the complaint, while it is still confined to the villous membrane, or at most does not touch the peritoneum. When the ulcerative action penetrates through the gastric tissues and begins to affect this membrane, it produces also slight and limited perito- nitis, which, if there be other organs applied on the part, tends to protract the life of the patient, and retard for a little the approach of the fatal event. With this peritoneal inflammation, the pulse becomes quick and sharp, and the patient complains of more or less pain in the epigastric and umbilical regions. But when the ulce- rative destruction has reached the peritoneum, the life of the patient hangs by a thread. The most casual occurrence, as a fit of sneez- ing, coughing, eructation, or vomiting, or, even without these, the distension of the stomach by drink or by air extricated from flatu- lent food, may produce perforation, and cause the escape of gaseous and fluid contents into the cavity of the abdomen, and general pe- ritoneal inflammation very speedily fatal. It is, therefore, too often only at the close of this disease that the practitioner can even conjecture its true nature. In every case, however, in which obstinate dyspeptic complaints are accompanied with a gnawing sensation, more or less constant, referred to the region of the stomach, or occasional acute pain, with loss of flesh, weakness and languor, and with the frequent re- jection of ingesta, the presence of chronic inflammation and ulcera- tion may be suspected. This conjecture will be converted into certainty, when, after a course of such symptoms, the patient is suddenly and unexpectedly attacked with feelings of faintness and sinking, acute pain generally radiating from the epigastrium or