146 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. c. The third stage in the process of granulation consists in what he has termed contraction. In describing this important part, I fear he has committed two errors—one in looking at the whole granu- lating surface and contiguous parts, rather than at the individual bodies; the other in ascribing contraction to the elasticity and mus- cular action of the contiguous parts rather than to a change in the state of the granulations. These circumstances are certainly use- ful accessory means ; but they must not be regarded as the primary and essential cause. Perhaps also some slight differences take place in the time in which contraction occurs, and the extent to which it proceeds, according to the nature of the granulating sur- face, and the relation which the production of the granulating emi- nences bears to the part to be restored. The general phenomena of the process appear to be the following. After the granulating eminence or eminences have been form- ed, and have united with the contiguous ones, the uninterrupted action of their new capillaries continues to effuse lymph as a basis for fresh granulations, and to give out vasculaj' or capillary pro- longations, in order to organize them. Meanwhile the vessels of the granulating eminences near the edges of the surface begin to diminish in size; and as they diminish the eminences themselves become less red and smaller, but more firm. At length, as the eminences become covered with the membrane of cicatrization, they appear to have diminished so much, that little inequality can be re- cognised, the redness is sensibly diminished, and the whole appears as if it were becoming quite as solid or firm as the contiguous parts. If in this part of the process a granulating surface be inject- ed, the vessels which go to the outer granulating eminences will be found to be, 1st, much less numerous; and, 2d, to be much dimi- nished in size; and this change will be observed to be most re- markable at the edge, and less at the centre of the sore. It is this diminution in the number and size of the granulating capillaries which is the main agent of the process of contraction. As these vessels become less numerous and smaller, the bodies to which they are distributed diminish and become firmer; and if a wound or part which has been healed by granulation be injected some weeks or months after being bealed, the vessels will be actually found less numerous and smaller than in the contiguous parts of the same tissue. When union by granulation is accompanied with the formation