80 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. a trifling extent, the arterial portion thus isolated is sure to become dead ; to be affected with inflammatory and sloughing action; and ultimately to give way and discharge the contents of the vessel. M. Beclard considers it a fibro-cellular membrane, which may in the larger arteries be divided into two layers, one exterior, similar to the general filamentous tissue ; the other inside between the outer layer and the proper tissue, yellowish and firm, but still sufficiently distinct from the proper tunic. In the cerebral arteries it is want- ing, and in most parts of the chest and belly its absence is supplied by a portion of pericardium, pleura, or peritonaeum. Yet even there a thin layer of fine cellular tissue appears to connect these membranes to the proper tunic. In the extremities the cellular sheath is removed in dissecting arterial preparations. At different periods several anatomists have maintained the ex- istence of longitudinal fibres in arterial tissue ; and even at the pre- sent day this notion is not entirely abandoned. Morgagni was the first who, trusting to mere observation, the only sure guide in ana- tomical science, doubted the existence of these fibres, and was not ashamed to say he was unable to perceive them.* Upon the same ground Haller would not admit their existence ;f and Bichat and Meckel positively deny them. I have repeatedly examined almost every considerable artery of the human body, and I have never been able to recognize any longitudinal fibres either in the middle or proper coat, or in the thin internal membrane, as taught by Willis, Douglas, and De La Sone. Though arterial tissue does not appear to he very vascular, it is furnished with arteries and veins (vasa vctsorurn; arteriolcB arteria- rum,) which do not come from the artery or vein itself, but from the neighbouring vessels.^ Thus the aorta at its origin is supplied with minute arteries from the right and left coronary, and in some in- stances with a proper vessel adjoining to the orifice of the right co- ronary artery, which Haller regards as a third coronary. The rest of the thoracic aorta derives its vessels from the upper bronchials, from twigs of the internal mammary arteries, from the bronchials, from the cesophageals, and from the phrenics. The abdominal por- * Adversaria Anatomica, II. p. 78. f “Verum anatomc et microscopium omnino fibros longitudinem sequentes imm- quam demonstravit, aut mihi, aut aliis, ante me, scriptoribus, quorum auctoritate meam tueor.”—Elementa, Lib. ii. sect. ], sect. 7. f Hunter, TV. p. 131. 3