MUSCULAR TISSUE. 399 veins, with the same nuclei, and the same transformation of nuclei to dark striae. Over the middle of the lamellae, in their long di- rection, passes sometimes a longer or shorter and proportionally broader granular patch, sometimes a long slender fine dark streak, sometimes an interrupted row of fine, dark punctula. Besides these lamellae, which are most abundant in the neigh- bourhood of the serous coat, are individual fragments of broad, very flat, stiff fibres. These lie in the muscular coat, in general parallel to each other, united in greater or smaller numbers in bundles. They seldom pass by oblique anastomoses into each other. Between and over them run the nucleated fibres, which often form a similar net-work, as the nucleated fibres of the middle arterial coat. They are more translucent, more slender, and less nume- rous than in the middle arterial coat. The breadth of the granulated muscular fibres is from J1S%% 0 to joVoo °f one line; the breadth of the fibrils about ioiso of one line. This species of muscular fibres, which are known as flat, inarti- culated organic or involuntary fibres, belong chiefly to the viscera, or organic and internal muscles. Of the third species, embracing the iris and lymphatic vessels, it is unnecessary to speak here. The colour of muscle varies. In man and the mammiferous ani- mals, at least adult, it is more or less red; in many birds and fishes it is known to be whitish ; in young animals it is grayish or cream- coloured ; and the slender fibres which form the middle coat of the intestines in all animals are almost colourless. The colour of the muscles of voluntary motion in man is red or fawn; but repeated washing or maceration in alcohol or alkaline fluids renders them much paler. The examination of the physical properties of muscle has occu- pied the industry of Muschenbroek, Croone, Browne Langrish, Wintringham, and others of the iatro-mathematical school. I can- not perceive that minute knowledge of these properties is of much moment to the elucidation either of its sound or its morbid states. Amidst the variable results necessarily obtained in such an inquiry, the only point which is certain is, that muscular fibre has much less tenacity and mutual aggregation than most other tissues. It sus- tains much less weight and force of tension without giving way. Chemical analysis has not yet furnished any satisfactory results on the nature of muscular tissue; but the general conclusion of the numerous experiments already instituted show that muscle con-