GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 34 former region it may be traced downwards along the back, loins, breasts sides, flanks, and belly. At the cervical region, and be- tween the shoulders, it is dense and abundant; and, surrounding the dorsal part of the vertebral column it is connected with the mediastinal tissue, the submucous tissue of the lungs, and the sub- serous tissue of the costal pleura. At the fore part of the neck it is in like manner connected with the abundant tissue of the pectoral region, and by means of that surrounding the larynx and trachea, ls£, with the submucous tissue of the bronchi; and, 2d, with the anterior mediastinum. Passing downwards, the same commu- nication may be traced with the intermuscular tissue of the loins and belly, the tissue surrounding the lumbar and sacral por- tion of the vertebral column, that connecting the mesentery and large vessels to the vertebrae, and extending all round under the muscular peritonaeum, and into the pelvis, where, by means of the tissue at the posterior surface of the abdominal muscles, at the an- terior surface of the iliacus interims, and through t}ie obturator hole and ischiatic notch, it communicates with the filamentous tissue of the lower extremities. From the rectum and branches of the is- chium it is continued along the perinseum by the urethra, and into the scrotum. In the whole of this course it is abundant in the space before the vertebrae round the psoce and iliacus internus muscles, and round the bladder, rectum, prostate gland, and womb. The tissue sur- rounding the vertebral column communicates with that in the in- terior of the column by the intervertebral holes. The arm-pit may be considered as the point of union between the filamentous tissue of the trunk and that of the upper extremi- ties, while the groin is the corresponding spot for the lower extre- mities. These facts should be kept in mind in observing the phe- nomena of diseas s of this tissue. Notwithstanding this general connection, however, certain parts of the tissue are so dense and close as to diminish greatly the fa- cility of communication. Thus along the median line it is so firm, that air injected invariably stops, unless impelled by a force ade- quate to tear open its filaments, and water is rarely found effused in this situation. In the neighbourhood of some parts of the ske- leton also, as at the crest of the ilium, over the great trochanter, and on the shin, the filamentous tissue is very dense and coherent. In chemical composition it consists principally of gelatin, but contains some albuminous matter.