191 SYSTEM OF EXHALANTS. serous part is so copious, that as it is not removed by the veins and lymphatics, it remains in the form of a serous, a sero-sanguine, or a sero-purulent fluid, constituting genuine dropsy. The detailed examination of this morbid accumulation belongs to the chapter on the serous membranes. That the capillary distension which takes place in fever is a fre- quent cause of anormal exhalation, is shown by the collections of limpid serum often found in the brain and spinal chord, by that sometimes seen in the pericardium, and by the brownish watery fluid often found in the pleura in the bodies of persons cut off by any of the varieties of that disease. /3. The influence of impediment to the return of the venous blood in the production of extraordinary effusion has been known from the earliest periods of medicine. In proof of this I shall not ad- duce the experiment of Lower, who by tying the vena cava in a dog, produced dropsy in a few hours ; for the injury in such a case may produce inflammation of the peritoneum, and consequent effusion ; and Hewson has justly objected to its competency, that the ligature might have included lymphatics along with the venous trunk.* Nor is it requisite to notice the experiments of Peyer, Bontekoe, and others. It is sufficient to say, that the fact is established by the effects of deranged circulation, as they take place, first, in veins; secondly, in arteries; and, thirdly, in both sets of vessels jointly, or in the capillary system. To the first head are to be referred tumours in the vicinity, or affecting the substance of veins; various diseases of the right au- ricle and right ventricle of the heart; hard disorganization or tu- bercles of the liver ; cirrhosis of the liver ; hepatization or tuber- cular disorganization of the lungs ; hard disorganization or scirrhus of the pancreas; induration and hypertrophy or tubercles of the spleen; and compression of the ascending cava by the gravid womb during the latter stage of pregnancy. Of a more local cha- racter are the oedematous swellings which appear in the neighbour- hood of tumours and abscesses. Thus in abscess, aneurism, or tu- mour of the arm-pit, and in scirrhus or cancer of the female breast, the whole arm becomes oedematous from the top of the shoulder to the tip of the fingers. One of the earliest symptoms of lumbar ab- scess is in some instances an oedematous enlargement of the leg of the side on which the abscess takes place ; and almost all deep- * Experimental Inquiries, Part ii. by William Hewson, F.R.S. London, 1774. p. 142.