708 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the cases recorded, and from several which I have examined per- sonally, I infer that ulceration of the serous tissue is always pre- ceded by inflammation and suppuration of the subserous; that the attachment of the former being thus destroyed, its vitality is im- paired, and its cohesion thereby weakened; and that it gives way rather in the manner of laceration than genuine ulceration. ยง 8. Observation has not yet determined whether gangrene be an effect of inflammation of the serous tissue. That it is occasionally in- volved in this process I infer from seeing the pleura in gangrene of the lungs, and the peritonceum in that of the bowels, soft, black, or greenish, shreddy, and lacerable. But it is still uncertain whether primary inflammation of a serous tissue exclusively may terminate in mortification of that membrane. With this process ulceration with bloody effusion or blood-coloured patches must not be con- founded. Bichat states, that in numerous bodies which he inspect- ed, he met with gangrene of the peritonceum only; and that he never witnessed an instance of this change either in the arachnoid membrane, in the pleura, in the pericardium, or in the perididymis * On the surface of the lungs there is occasionally observed a spe- cies of gangrene, circumscribed and limited in extent. A patch, dark coloured and dead, of a shape nearly, sometimes exactly cir- cular, is formed at the surface, that is, the pleural surface of the lung. The size of these patches varies from the size of a sixpenny piece or a shilling to a crown piece. The patch is in certain cases observed still adherent, though black and dead. In other in- stances it has dropped off, leaving a cup-like cavity, pretty exactly circular in outline, regularly hollowed out in the substance of the lung, which is red but otherwise natural and free from appearance of gangrene. In this lesion, which I have described as circumscribed gangrene of the lungs, the pleura is affected by gangrene; but whether pri- marily, or only in connection with the substance ot the lung, it is impossible to determine. The portions so affected appear exactly as if they had been destroyed by the direct application of the hot iron, or touched by a portion of caustic potass. This circumscribed form of gangrene of the pleura and surface of the lungs is sometimes associated with diffuse gangrene in the deep-seated parenchyma of the organ, f * Anat. Generate, Tome iii. p. 517. | Cases and Observations illustrative of the Nature of Gangrene of the Lungs. David Craigie, M. D., &e., Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. lvi. Edinburgh, 1841. Bv p. I-