TRACHEO-BRONCIIIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 571 the other serous, which escapes while the old epidermis is cast in the form of scab or slough. The mucous membrane of the throat and soft palate is affected by diffuse redness, swelling, and other marks of inflammation during the sore throat of scarlet fever. That of quinsy is more frequently seated in the submucous cellular tissue. B. TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. b. Inflammation of the tracheo-bronchial membrane may be dis- tinguished as the process is developed; ls£, in the larynx ; 2d: in the windpipe or proper tracheal membrane ; 3d, in the bronchial membrane; and, 4th, in the small bronchial tubes or pulmonic membrane. Though these inflammations possess certain common characters, each is attended by peculiarities which require attention. § 1. a. Laryngia, Laryngitis. Cynanche Laryngaea. Laryngia acuta.—Though this disease appears not to have been unknown to Cullen and some previous authors, we are indebted to Dr Baillie, Dr Farre, Dr Percival, Mr Lawrence, and Mr Howship, for a more accurate account of its pathology than we previously pos- sessed. The proper seat of laryngitis, indeed, its characteristic symptoms and nature, had been overlooked in the attention paid to croup; and when it was first observed carefully, as in the case of General Washington, it was called Croup in the adult. It is impossible to deny that the disease named laryngitis affects children as well as adults; and it may have often been mistaken for croup. From this, however, laryngitis differs in the parts which it affects, in the effects which it produces, and, in short, according to my own ob- servation, in its anatomico-pathological nature and characters; and for these reasons I consider the disease separately. It may be stated as a well-established fact, that the symptoms of this disease arise from inflammation circumscribed to a definite re- gion of the larynx. Though the whole laryngeal membrane, from the epiglottis to the tracheal rings, is red and swelled, the particular point at which this morbid action is most injurious is that part of the mucous membrane which covers the arytenoid cartilages, and forms the chink called glottis. Though this part of the laryngeal membrane may not be more swelled than any other, a moderate degree of swelling soon diminishes the aperture so much that inspi- ration is rendered difficult or impossible, and the danger of suffo-