MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—LOBULAR PNEUMONIA. 989 at. length infiltration of blood and lymph. In this mode it most frequently steals on imperceptibly, with cough aggravated in the winter season and on exposure to cold, slight dyspnoea which in- creases gradually, very slight febrile symptoms aggravated during the night, gradual wasting and eventually death, either by bastard peripneumony, a sudden and unexpected attack of the acute dis- order, or the establishment of pleuritic Inflammation. In less frequent cases the same change is sometimes left as a residue of the acute form of the disorder. § 3. Lobular Pneumonia.—In the second form of chronic pneu- monia the inflammatory disorder comes on in a different manner. Either at the same time, or successively inflammatory congestion, indicated by redness, induration, and at length the effusion of blood and lymph, takes place in several, sometimes many points, of one or both lungs. This goes on for weeks or months, until the whole of both lungs present a multitude of roundish or irregular formed nodules about the size of small nuts, diffused through their sub- stance. When these are divided by the knife they present an ex- terior of reddish, firm vascular substance, inclosing in general small grains of grayish-coloured matter, sometimes like coagulated lymph, sometimes like purulent matter. They are manifestly con- fined to the minute divisions or lobules of the lungs, and as the in- flammatory action has thus originated in, and been chiefly confined to these lobules, the disorder has not improperly been denominated lobular pneumonia, (pneumonia lobuloruni.) The lungs at the same time are infiltrated with serum ; the bronchial tubes contain puri- form mucus; the pleura is invariably more or less inflamed and covered with patches of albuminous exudation, especially opposite to those inflamed lobules which approach nearest to the pleura pul. monalis; the pulmonic and costal pleura: are often united by soft recent adhesions ; the upper part of the apex of the lung generally adheres extensively ; and sero-albuminous or puriform fluid is found in the cavity of the pleura. The symptoms of this disorder are imperfectly known. In the few cases which have fallen closely under my observation, the exis- tence of disease of the lungs was not even suspected; and in one case which I had occasion to inspect, the patient, a boy of fif- teen, was supposed to have died of continued fever. Febrile symp toms, indeed, he presented for about eight or nine days previous to the fatal event, and at the same time the breathing was rapid