Vlll PREFACE. * Medical Essays and Observations, \ ol. iv. p. 416, ces from repeated inspection,—in all from more or less personal examination of its physical and anatomical characters. Of my own observation, however, I say nothing, but leave the reader to judge both of its extent and its accuracy. Though I have been thus studious to avoid intentional errors, it is possible that many have been committed in the course of the vo- lume, both from ignorance and from oversight. These I will not extenuate by any apology derived either from the difficulty and com- plicated nature of the subject, or from the calls of other professional engagements. When such apology is admissible, its first interpre- tation is,—that the author should have left the undertaking to some one better qualified by opportunities and attainments to execute it creditably. On some points I have gone less into detail than the nature of the subject may seem to require ; on others unnecessary diffuseness may be perceived; and in some, perhaps, omissions may be detected. In the section on the Diseases of the Nerves, though I refer to the cases of Mojon and Covercelli, I confess that I had at the time some doubts regarding the connection between existence of the tu- mour and the epileptic motions. Since that sheet was printed I met with the remarkable case of Dr Short,* which has tended to remove these doubts ; and I have elsewhere offered a conjecture on the connection between these tumours and the sensation called epileptic aura. This it was unnecessary to notice, had not my friend, Mr William Wood, attaching to the conjecture more value than it really merited, resumed with his usual acuteness the inves- tigation of a subject, on which he was the first to communicate ex- act information. The monograph of Mr Wood, published in the third volume of the Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, is now not only the fullest, but the best account of the neuromatic tubercle ; and had it been composed previous to the sheet in which the account in the present volume is contained, would have enabled me to give a much better description of that disease. To the peculiar disease of the intestinal mucous membrane in