894 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. place; 2d, that in this hypertrophy of the hepatic cellular tissue consists the essential character of the pathological change called kirrhosis. These propositions he maintains that he proved, by showing microscopically the increased quantity of cellular tissue which the kirrhotic liver presents; and chemically, by the quantity of gelatin which he obtained by boiling from the kirrhotic liver, and which is to that of the sound liver, by taking like weights, as five to one. He obtained from three ounces of kirrhotic liver 66 grains of dry gelatin, and from the same quantity of healthy liver only 13 grains. Dr Hallmann further observes that the yellow bodies (granula- tions, kirrhotic nodules) consist partly of cells filled with more or fewer fat globules, and thereby often expanded beyond their proper volume, and partly of large free fat globules. Their me- dium diameter is about 106 thousandth parts of one Paris inch. The fat may be forced from them by pressure: but seldom do they show a distinct nucleus. By maceration in solution of caustic alkali, the fat is dissolved. The accumulation of fat within and without the cells is not peculiar to the kirrhotic liver, but is observed in the drunkard’s liver, and occasionally in livers reputed sound.. The basement tissue which surrounds the yellow granules, consists partly of closely compressed cells, partly of thin compact fibres, which are much more abundant here than in the sound liver. From the several facts now specified, he concludes that the toughness and hardness of the granular liver proceeds from an augmentation of the cellular tissue of the capsule of Glisson, caused by chronic inflammation.* Imperfect as this hypothesis is, it is supported by Muller of Berlin, who closes some interesting observations on the structure of the liver with the following remarks. “According to my observations, kirrhosis consists principally in hypertrophy of the interlobular ligamentous tissue, at the expense of the glandular or lobular substance of the liver, by which individual lobules and separate masses of lobules are removed and as if extruded from the others in a striking manner. In a remarkable specimen of kirrhosis in the Anatomical Museum, this is so palpable, that it may be seen in the section of the liver by the naked eye. I con- * Bemerkung uber (lie Lebercirrhose von Dr E. Hallmann. A Berlin. Muller -'- Arcbiv fur Anatomie, Physiologie, un Wissenchaflliche Medicin. Jahrgang. IMS. Berlin. 47A 4