MORBID STATES OE THE LUNGS.—GANGRENE. 995 occupations, that he applies for assistance ; and in general the dis- ease has been proceeding for eight days or two weeks when he is first seen. The appearances found after death are of two kinds. One is indicative of what is named diffusive gangrene of the lungs, the other is circumscribed. In the first case, a mass of lung, about two inches and a half or three inches wide, but irregular in figure and outline, is converted into a soft, pulpy, dark ash-coloured sub- stance, which, when it is handled or pressed by the finger, falls down into a loose moist mass—emitting a foetid offensive odour, without trace of the usual structure of the lungs, except a few bronchial tubes, and blood-vessels and filaments and shreds of fila- mentous tissue. This mass is in general bounded by, but it does not terminate abruptly in, healthy lung. It is soft, dingy, and in- filtrated with a dark, ash-coloured, dirty serous liquor. Occasion- ally the surrounding portion of lung is hepatized or infiltrated with blood, or blood-coloured serum; the bronchial tubes always con- tain much blood-coloured viscid mucus; and sometimes the pleura is reddened, covered with lymph or adhesions, and contains fluid in its cavity. The part of the lung most usually thus mortified is either in the lowei lobe, the upper part of the lower and lower part of the middle 01 uppci lobe on the left side, or the middle lobe alone on the right side ; that is, the central part of the lungs, but verging toward the lower part. In the second form, or that which is circumscribed, a portion of the lung generally towards the surface, presents a dark-coloured hard patch, varying in size from a shilling to a half-crown piece or more, often pretty exactly circular, bounded all round by healthy lung, and not unusually a distinct reddened circle of vessels, or vessels with lymph. This circular hard patch, which resembles closely an eschar produced by caustic potass, or any of the caute- ries, may either adhere or be detached. In the latter case, it gene- rally leaves disclosed a cup-like cavity, a little larger than the de^ tached eschar, not loose or filamentous, or shreddy-like as in diffuse gangrene, but firm, granular, with the blood-vessels and bronchial tubes closed, and with the surrounding lung more softened, but generally presenting marks of pleurisy, pneumonia, and bronchitis,, all united. Sometimes albuminous exudation over the pleura and w.thm its cavity is found to have taken place,-a circumstance