GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 480 was so much divided in like manner, that the transverse furrow thus formed easily admitted the introduction of the tip of the finger; and the frontal and parietal bones were also united by firm fibro- ligamentous tissue. When this was inspected attentively, it ap- peared to consist of pericranium and dura mater firmly adhering, and without the smallest trace of intermediate bone. This was shown, indeed, by the state of the fontanelle, at which the pericranium adhered so firmly to the dura mater, that it was impossible to sepa- rate them otherwise than by the knife. This double membrane was quite fibro-cartilaginous, and was so tensely stretched between the bones, that while it was bound down in the centre to the dura mater, it was raised to the margins of the bones on each side of the de- pressed channel or sulcus. Much the same substance surrounded the whole parietal bones, though with less separation of the lamb- doidal and temporo-parietal sutures, and with more traces of ossi- fication. Yet so imperfect was this process, that I removed both parietal bones by strong scissors; and without using the saw, in- spected the whole brain completely. The other peculiarities will be understood by a short sketch of the appearance of the right pa- rietal bone. The hone is very thin, and, in the situation of the parietal pro- tuberance, translucent. The anterior or frontal margin presents no serrated appearance; but becoming quickly attenuated, termi- nates in fibro-ligamentous structure, which was leaden gray colour- ed, opaque, and very tough, but which has dried very hard and brittle, and is translucent and traversed by red vascular lines. At the upper mesial extremity of this margin, the bone, instead of pre- senting the usual rectangular process, is very deficient, and termi- nates in a portion of fibro-ligamentous membrane, at least eight lines broad. The inner or mesial margin, which forms the sagittal suture, which is equally void ol serrated edge, is completed by the same sort of texture; but the posterior margin, corresponding to the occipital anterior of the bone, is firmer, and presents in some parts points of ossification ; and one of these is what would afterwards have constituted a Wormian bone. The inferior margin, where it corre- sponds to the temporal bone, is separated from that bone by a thin portion of the same membranous substance, about two lines broad, but without trace of bony matter. The bone was soft and sectile, as indeed were the bones of the skull in general; and as a proof of this the instrument has divided the scaly portion of the temporal bone, and left it attached by ligamentous matter to the parietal.