GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 240 that it may be named the figurate or symmetrical surface of the brain. Instead of presenting the uniform eminences and hollows which distinguish the convoluted surface, it is disposed or moulded into definite shapes, which correspond with each other, as they are situate on opposite sides of the middle plane,—or the parts of which, when situate on this plane, are exactly symmetrical. The surface formed by these variously figured objects, bounds what are termed in the common descriptions the ventricles or cavities of the brain. They cannot justly be termed cavities any more than the hollows between the convolutions, but ought to be viewed as continuations of the exterior or convoluted surface. As the several objects of the figurate surface are well known, I shall at present, avoiding minute description, notice those circumstances only which have not been sufficiently studied, or correctly represented, or which are necessary to establish the general principle,—that the convoluted surface of the brain and the laminated surface of the cerebellum communicate directly with the inner, central, or figurate surface of these organs. The commutual or dichotomous region of the convoluted surface is terminated below by a sinuosity, which is formed chiefly by a part of the brain, remarkable in appearance and organization. This, which was named by the ancient anatomists the smooth or polished body f'jj'Aa. nXkaubig, corpus leave) f to distinguish it from those sur- faces which were formed by a cutting instrument, appears in the form of white fibrous matter, passing transversely between the he- mispheres ; but is also marked by certain longitudinal lines, first correctly represented by Vicq-DAzyr. The most conspicuous of these is that which lies exactly in the middle plane, and which is formed by the meeting of the transverse fibres, of which this body, termed middle or central band, (mesolobe of Chaussier, the beam (der Balken) of Reil,)f consists. These fibres, which issue like * This is the literal translation and the true meaning of the term used by the Alex- andrian school. The name corpus callosum, which is adopted by modern anatomists, is a bad translation made at the revival of literature. In defence of the error, Vicq- D’Azyr contradicts nature by the assertion, that this is somewhat harder or firmer than the other parts of the brain. “ Cette production a plus dc consistence -quo le reste dti cerveau.—Ce corps un peu plus dur que le reste de la substance blanche du cerveau.” Of many brains examined, with a different object, certainly, from that of proving the learning or ignorance of the translators of the Greek physicians, I never could perceive any difference in the consistence of this and other parts of the brain. f Archiv. fur die Physiologie. Neunter Band. Erstes Heft. 3. b. p. 172.