MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—PNEUMONIA. 991 individual and independent reality. Pneumonia doubtless takes place in persons in whom the alimentary functions are disordered, and sometimes the hepatic secretions perverted or deranged; and it sometimes happens that symptoms of gastric and hepatic dis- order simulate symptoms of pneumonic inflammation. The first must be regarded as a mere complication, such as is very frequently met with in practice. The second must be viewed as a distemper totally different, and requiring different treatment. The class of persons in whom pneumonia and bronchitis is ob- served to assume the bilious or gastric disorder in this country most frequently are the intemperate, especially spirit and wine- bibbers, the gouty, and those labouring under mental anxiety and distress. § 4. The term nervous or typhoid ■pneumonia has been applied to pneumonia taking place, as it often does, along with typhoid fever, or giving rise to symptoms of typhoid fever. Of this variety two forms may be specified. 1st, Either a person attacked with continued fever presents in the course of it symptoms of bronchial inflammation or even pneu- monia, not very well marked, but still sufficiently so to be recog- nized by the skilful observer. Sometimes, not always, there is cough; for in certain cases the patient is so feeble that he is unable to cough or expectorate. In general the respiration is laborious, limited, and irregular; the face, cheeks, and lips are livid; the hands and feet livid and cold; and the pulse small, soft, and sometimes irregular or intermitting. Upon employing ausculta- tion the presence of pneumonia in the posterior and inferior region of one or both lungs is recognized. In this form of the disorder it is said to be typhoid fever with pneumonia. 2d, In a person attacked with pneumonic inflammation the symptomatic fever does not assume the open and distinct symptoms usually presented, but observes a slow, latent, and insidious form in which the symptoms of great feebleness (adynamia) and nervous irritation (neurasthenia) are predominant. Of these the most pro- minent are great oppression at the breast, intolerable anxiety, and jactitation; a sense of internal heat; great difficulty in breathing and coughing; total cessation of pain if previously felt; a deceit- ful calm or listlessness; delirium in the night especially, or tupho- marna; dryness and tremulousness of the tongue, unquenchable thirst, meteorismus of the belly, dry burning skin, faintings sub-