161 SYSTEM OF CAPILLARY VESSELS, &C. retted hydrogen gases, at all times present in greater or less quan- tity. This bloody exudation is at first scanty, but gradually in- creases as the disease goes on, until it constitutes the greater part of what is discharged both by vomiting and by stool. In the for- mer case it forms the black vomit, (vomito prieto,) or coffee-ground matter, so frequent in fatal cases of remittent or yellow fever. In the latter it forms the dark, tarry, or treacle-like stools mentioned by practical authors in the same disease. (Jackson, Hunter, Phy- sic, Cathrall, Bancroft, &c.) The description now given is general, and applies to this capil- lary disorganization, as it takes place both in bad agues and remit- tents, and in yellow fever. In the former it is less frequent, but nevertheless takes place sufficiently often. In the latter it is seen in its most exquisite form, and is almost invariable in fatal cases. Its origin and formation have been traced in the most satisfactory manner by repeated dissections. The idea of black vomit being morbid or vitiated bile deserves no attention. In some instances of severe yellow fever a dark-co- loured fluid of the same physical characters as those found in the intestinal tube, may be traced coming down the biliary and hepatic duct from the pori biliarii. This, however, instead of being bile, is blood which has oozed from the hepatic capillaries in the same manner as that from the intestinal ones. o. The capillaries of the urinary system are much affected dur- ing fever. Both in intermittents and in continued fevers bloody urine has been discharged. e. In the same manner the capillaries of the muscles, of the fila- mentous tissue, and of the skin are morbidly distended. One of the most common symptoms of fever is pain, soreness, and a sense of bruising in the muscular parts and limbs in general. In fatal cases, when these parts are examined by incision, unusual vascular distension and extravasation of blood are frequently seen. The livid spots and patches, (molopes ; vibices ; ecchymomata) are proofs of the same state of the capillaries of the filamentous tissue, as pe- techial eruptions denote this in the skin. In short, there is scarcely a texture or organ of the animal body, the capillaries of which are not disordered in the different forms of fever; and this disorder, instead of being confined to the capilla- ries of a single organ, is extended throughout the capillary system at large. L