MORBID STATES OF THE HEART.—MALFORMATIONS. 1063 two last mentioned united ; as in the case by Landoury.* * * § od, The aorta arising in such a manner that its orifice corresponds to a con- genital aperture in the septuyi, most commonly at the base of that partition. 4th, The aorta arising at once from the right and left ventricle, as in the case recorded by Sandifort, that by Dr Nevin, and in the 47th case given by Gintrac, the case of M. Olivry, in the case recorded by Dr George Gregory, in one given by Ohas- sinat,t and in one given by Casper.^ 5th, The pulmonary artery arising from the left ventricle, while the aorta arises from the right, as in the case recorded by Baillie, one by Hildebrand,§ and one by DrWalshe.|| 6th, The aorta and pulmonary artery arising from the left ventricle, as in the case recorded by M. Marechale. 7th, Only one auricle and one ventricle, the latter giving rise to one trunk, which afterwards divides into the aorta and pulmonary artery. 8thly, One auricle and one ventricle, giving rise to a separate aorta on the right, and a pulmonary artery on the left, as in the two cases given by M. Thore.1T These errors in formation may be traced to one of two causes; arrest or interruption in the process of development; and mis- adaptation of constituent parts. All of them, however, are fur- ther connected with some form and degree of that obstruction or arctation in the orifice of the pulmonary artery already noticed. My limits and the nature of this work do not allow me to enter into detail on the consideration of this subject; and all that I can here * Observation de Communication Anormale entre les cavites du Coeur, &c. Par H. Landourv. Archives Generales, T. xlviii. p. 436. Paris, 1838. t Observations d’Anomalies Anatomiques remarkables de l’appareil circulatoire, &c. Par M. le Docteur Raoul Chassinat. Archives Generales T. xli. p 80 Paris 1836. ' ’ 7 Wochenschrift fur die Gesaramte Heilkunde. Ilerausgegeben von den D. D. Casper, Romberg und v. Stosch. Jahrgang, 1841. No. 13. § Merkwurdige Missbildung des Herzens und der Grossen Gefiisse. Von Dr Hilde- brand. Graefe und Walthers’ Journal der Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, Bd. xxix. Heft 3, Seite 490. II Case of Cyanosis depending on Transposition of the Aorta and Pulmonary Artery. By VV. H. Walshe, M. D. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxv. p. 1. Lond 1842. r If Memoire sur le Vice de Conformation du Coeur, consistant seulcment en une Oreillette et un Ventricule, Par M. There. Archives Generales, T. lx. 316. Paris, 1842. Note sur une Anomalie du Coeur chez un Enfant nouveau-ne. Par M. There Transposition of the Aorta which is on the right ; the pulmonary artery and auri- cular appendages on left; one Ventricle. Archives Generales, T. Ixi. p. 199. parjs J 843. 1 *