257 BRAIN. vered by the gray matter of the brush-like termination above-men- tioned, and epithelion, which is here very thick. The radiating fibres of both systems are here shortest. The deep layers form in some parts immediate mutual communications, especially in the posterior cornu; and at this point alone the inner layer of the beam descends directly on the fibres of the limb. In expansion, these radiating fibres receive between them white matter from the hemi- spherical circumference; and in this manner form connections, as remarked by Red, with the peripheral or convoluted part of the hemispheres, and especially with those which form the Sylvian fis- sure.* This may be considered the second connection of the beam with the brain limbs. The hinder part of the beam is something firmer than the fore a part reckoned towards the centre; a circumstance which depends on the closeness with which its fibres are here compacted in mass. After forming the elevated ridge which constitutes the hinder cross- bar of the vault, they plunge into the hemispheres in the form of thick bundles, which, running horizontally backwards over the posterior cornu, are expanded in the posterior parts of the hemi- : spheres. The inner layer of these fibres, which falling on the outer wall of the cornu over the radiation of the limbs, covers it and part of the outer wall, is named by Reil the tapestry, or hanging. (Die Tapete.) This may be viewed as a third point of junction between the beam and the brain limbs. I am now to trace the direction of the component fibres of the latter parts. These are connected below, above, and behind, with so many important parts, that it is requisite to comprehend several parts under the general denomination of System of the limbs. After the example of Reil, we begin from the head of the spinal chord ; ' (medulla oblongata.) This part consists in the human adult of six eminences, three on | each side of the mesial plane ; the pyramidal or pyriform eminences before and below, the restiform bodies behind and above, and the olivary eminences on each side. Of these the olivary eminences are to be viewed as the most important, since by each containing a ci- liary or moriform nucleus, (corpus ciliare, c. dentatum, c. moriforme, c. rhomboideum,) they make an approach in structure to the cha- racter of the cerebellum. Ihe pyriform or pyramidal bodies arc important in another light. * Archiv. fur die Physiologic, Neunter Band, p. 170. It