STEATOSIS OR GRANULAR DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY. 959 ease is sooner or later observed to ensue. Now it is to be observed, that the use of mercury not only induces an inflammatory state of the system, rendering the blood sizy, and the individual liable to attacks of inflammation in various organs, but it also renders the urine serous.* Mercury further acts as an irritant of the glandular organs; and it is impossible to doubt that a mineral which we know is circulating with the blood, and carried to all the organs, must induce in organs so vascular and complicated a high degree of orgasm and the deposition of new morbid products. Another agent, which operates in unduly stimulating the kidney and its vessels, is the use of spirituous liquors. It is well ascertain- ed that among the subjects of this disorder a considerable propor- tion are addicted to the habitual use of these pernicious stimulants; and as they are often taken for their supposed diuretic properties, the delusion leads patients to continue their use, until the disease attains its confirmed and incurable stage. We know that the ha- bitual use of these stimulants tends to favour the formation of the steatomatous or fatty degeneration in arteries; and it seems reason- able to infer that their use is equally capable of favouring this de- position in the kidneys. Exposure to cold acts both as a predisponent and exciting cause; and in its operation causes that subverted balance in circulation which generally precedes congestion and inflammation in various internal organs. It is probable that the primary cause, nevertheless, is seated in disorder of the digestive organs. It is observed, that the use of various indigestible articles of food, as pastry, is followed by a se- rous state of the urine ; and if a single meal of this kind be follow- ed by such a result, it is easy to see that the frequent use of such articles will induce a habitual or constant serous state of the urine. It is manifest, however, that, as this state cannot be induced with- out more or less disorder in the vascular system of the kidney, the continued irritation may give rise to the change in structure which is eventually observed in the kidneys of persons who have become victims of this disease. The second opinion, that the glandular deposit is the effect of a peculiai aberration in nutrition, may be true without being incon- * Observations on the Dropsy which succeeds Scarlet Fever, Art. xv. : and on the Presence of the Red Matter and Serum in tho Blood in the Urine of Dropsy after Scarlet Fever, Art. xvii. By Charles Wells, M. D., &c. Transactions of a Society ni. p. 230. London, 1812. J 9