DISEASES OF THE GALL-BLADDER AND GALL-DUCT. 919 The Gall-Bladder and Ducts. The Bile.—§ 1. The gall- bladder, and cystic duct, and common duct are all liable to inflam- mation, sometimes of a spreading and catarrhal character, or phleg- monous and limited. In either case the process may cause a tem- porary attack of jaundice. § 2. Hydatids have been, found in the gall-bladder.* Parasitical animals, as the Fasciola hepatica, it has been already stated, may take place in the biliary ducts. § 3. The most usual and important disorder of the biliary excretory system consists in the formation of gall-stones, which may be form- ed in any part of these ducts, and in the gall-bladder, but most commonly in the latter. Gall-stones occur of all sizes, from that of a pin-head up to the magnitude of one inch in diameter. When small, they are gene- rally numerous, and may occur to the amount of sixty or seventy in the gall-bladder at one time. Their figure in that case is poly- hedral or tetrahedral, with rounded edges and angles, from mutual attrition and polishing. When there are only two or one, then the size may be considerable, that is, from half an inch to three-quar- ters of an inch, or a whole inch and more in diameter. Their figure is then spherical, oblong spheroidal, or pyriform, more or less regular. In this state they may he contained either within the gall-bladder, or in certain dilated portions of the biliary ducts. These bodies are lighter than water. Soemmering states he has seen them sink; yet his facts show that they are lighter. They are in- flammable, and, when burned, are slowly reduced to charcoal almost pure. Their interior structure presents a resinous glistening frac- ture, and a yellow or yellowish-brown colour, and, when closely inspected, the broken part exhibits numerous minute brilliant, crys- talline scales, which resemble mica or scales of spermaceti. These scales are almost pure cholesterine, which, indeed, constitutes the larger portion of almost all gall-stones. Some gall-stones consist of pure cholesterine; others consist of cholesterine with the colour- ing matter of the bile; and a very small proportion contain the matter of bile inspissated and altered. Cruveilhier states, that in most calculi of cholesterine, the nu- cleus consists of concretions of thickened bile. This does not cor- respond with what is observed in this country. In general, the nucleus or central portion consists of cholesterine in more or less purity, and round this are lamellae or strata, still of cholesterine * Museum Anatomicum, a Johanne Gottlieb Walter. Berolini, 1805. 4to, p, xix.