542 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. fore much change in its size or appearance can be detected. In some instances its formation has been preceded by a burn or some ulcerative process of the skin ; in some by an attack of small-pox; in other instances, it is said, by the syphilitic poison affecting the skin. Most commonly it occupies the sternal region; but it has been observed on the face and neck. As to the nature of Kelts, though some have regarded it as allied to cancer, this seems by no means well established. The tumour has been observed to remain a long time on the body, without showing any tendency to pass into cancerous ulceration. ยง 3. Scirrho-carcinoma of the skin is not uncommon. Though it may occur in any part of the cutaneous covering, it commences most frequently in situations where the corion is delicate and thinly covered. The skin of the face, especially of the eyelids, prolabium, and nose, is a frequent seat of this disorder; and next to these, per- haps, are to be placed the nipple of the female and the penis of the male, the corion of which are liable to be affected by this morbid structure. The scrotum is very often the seat of that peculiar car- cinomatous destruction occurring in the persons of chimney sweep- ers. In all these cases the structure is much the same. It may appear either in the shape of tubercular cancer, or in that of reticular cancer. In the former case small hard tubercles appear to be formed either in the substance of the corion, or in the cutaneous follicles. These coalesce and become elevated, forming a patch of skin, red, hard, irregular, hot, and the seat of stinging pain. After some time, scales are formed on the surface; and along with or after these slight softening takes place. The scales and crusts are ejected; and in general there is left a hollow, ul- cerating, non-granulating surface, secreting serous fluid, and gra- dually increasing in depth and extent. Commonly two or three tu- bercles, simultaneously or successively, are the seat of this process, so that the part presents several hollow ulcers, with hard, elevated edges beginning to be everted or already everted. When the disease assumes the reticular shape it generally aflects a considerable portion of skin with hard, scirrhiform swelling, ir- regular in surface, and tending, after some time, to the formation of an ulcerated surface, with sanious discharge, and hard, elevated, everted edges. The internal structure of reticular scirrhus in the skin is similar to that structure in other tissues. In the situation of the corion is seen a tough firm substance of