TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 579 in fragments or entire. Instances of this disease, which is not com- mon, were first observed by T. Bartholine,* N. Tulpius,f Kuysch,J Clarke,§ Lister, Cheselden, Bussiere,|| Samber,f F. Nicholls,** Warren,ft John Andrew Murray,# Callisen,§§ Baillie, and Laennec. The mode of their formation is not established without ambiguity. In many instances they are the result of a modification of the in- flammatory process. In some, however, in which they are connected with bronchial or pulmonary hemorrhage, they appear to be formed by the coagulation of blood not discharged at the time of hemor- rhage. § 3. Bronchial Inflammation, acute, and chronic. Bronchiasis puri- for mis ; Bronchitis.—Bronchitis may be distinguished into two varie- ties, according to the portions of the air-tubes which it affects. The disease may be confined chiefly, if not solely, to the large and middle- sized bronchial tubes, in short, where the mucous membrane lines tubes, properly so called; or it may either, with or without affec- tion of these, be seated principally in the terminal ends or vesicles where the membrane is more delicate, and the tubes are much smaller. In the former case, the impediment to respiration is much less considerable than in the latter, in which, from their small size, any thickening or new secretion produces most serious and alarm- ing labour in breathing, with great anxiety and distress. The former may be termed tubular bronchitis, the latter vesicular bronchitis, or bronchitis of the vesicles, or of the small bronchial tubes and terminal ends of the small bronchial tubes. I am aware that the latter is by some believed to constitute pneu- monia or inflammation of the lungs; and, in point of fact, in all cases of pneumonia or inflammation of the substance of the lungs, there is a considerable affection of the terminal ends of the bronchi; and in cases of affection of the vesicles on the other hand, there is - sooner or later some affection of the pulmonic tissue. In short, the two diseases pass into each other, and in most cases co-exist. * Centur. iii. Hist. .98. + Obs. Lib. ii. Obs. 7. + Epistola Anatomica, VI. p. 9 et 11. Amstelodami, 1659. Op. Om. Tom. II. § PhiL Trans. No. 235, p. 779 and 780. Vol. XIX. II Ibid. No. 263, p. 545. Vol. XXII. H Ibid. No. 398, p. 262. ** lb. No. 419, p. 123. tt Transactions of College of Physicians, Vol. I. p. 407. Commentatio de Polypis Bronchiorum. Goettingaj, 1773. Opusoula, Vol. I. 1785. VI. p. 255. ' §§ Observatio de Concretione Polyposa, Cava, Ramosa, tussi rejecta. Acta Societatis • Icdica; Ilavniensis, Vol. I. Havni®, 1777. Art. IV. p. 76.