478 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. rection. As the original seat of the disease is generally the lower dorsal or upper lumbar vertebrae, the disease is termed lumbar ab- scess.* It may appear either in the lumbar region, at the margin of the rectum, or in the groin. Several vertebrae are found exca- vated or destroyed by caries. As in the other articulations, how- ever, this disease may terminate in irregular osseous union of seve- ral vertebrae, forming a species of ankylosis. The forms of disease now enumerated are chiefly varieties or ef- fects of the inflammatory process. Those which yet demand atten- tion, though dependent in like manner on some abnormal action of the periosteal or medullary vessels, are nevertheless so peculiar, that it is impossible to refer them to the same general head. d. Cartilaginous union of the ribs and other bones. In September 1828 I met with a singular instance of malformation in the ribs of a child, to which I have not yet heard of any example entirely similar. In the body of a boy, two years and four months old, I was struck by the shape of the anterior surface of the chest. On each side, instead of the usual convex swell of the ribs, there was a re- markable depression extending from the third to the seventh rib in- clusive, commencing about two inches from the sternum, and ex- tending in breadth along the chest from one inch and a half to two inches. This depression consisted in each of these ribs presenting a defect of conformation from their posterior convexity to the junc- tions with the cartilages. At the former point each rib was sud- denly bent from its normal curvature to an angular or sharp turn, as if it had been broken, and thence proceeded flat, and in some sense straight, to the cartilage, its union with which was marked by a depression and a large and evident knob or tuberosity not unlike an articulation. The deformity thus produced was so distinct, that any one would have readily pronounced it the result of a fracture. But to this idea, the circumstance of its extending through so many ribs, and being found with the same uniformity on both sides, form- ed an objection of some weight. To obtain some light on the mat- ter, I removed several of the ribs, and made of these longitudinal and transverse sections. By this means the following facts were ascertained. The bony portion of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs, underwent at the posterior-lateral convexity a sudden change * Camper, Demonst. Anat. lib.ii. cap. 1. art 6. Clieston’s Pathological Inquiries and Observations, Case iv. p. 1211, and v. p. 130. Howship, Morbid Anatomy, chap, vii. p. 365.