MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—TUBERCLES. 1015 The great objection under which this doctrine labours, is its be- ing at variance with anatomical facts. The lymphatic bronchial glands are situate chiefly round the ramifications of the bronchi; and though these glands are sometimes enlarged, and sometimes infiltrated with tyromatous matter in young subjects, this change is not uniformly or even often observed in pulmonary consumption. The bronchial glands, further, may be affected by tyromatous de- position, when the lungs are themselves either healthy, or at least not affected by tubercular deposit. Lastly, in those instances in which the bronchial glands are enlarged, indurated, infiltrated with tyromatous matter, or softened into suppuration, along with tuber- cular deposit, and tubercular excavations of the lungs, the former can always be readily distinguished from the latter, by the peculiar site which they occupy, and still more by their appearance, figure, and other physical characters. It is chiefly in children that this tyromatous enlargement, and transformation of the bronchial glands is observed; and in those cases in which the enlargement is asso- ciated with tubercular disease of the lungs, dissection at once shows the difference between the two lesions. The sections of the bron- chial glands are large, homogeneous, circular, or elliptical, whitish, 01 Siayish coloured, or grayish-blue surfaces round the large bron- chial tubes. The sections of the tubercular masses are irregular, variable in consistence; hard points and spots being mixed with softer portions, and the colour gray-blue, or bluish-red, situate in the substance of the pulmonic lobes and lobules. As the affection of the lymphatic glands, therefore, is not ade- quate to account for the morbid appearauces presented by phthisi- cal lungs. Portal admitted that tubercles might be seated in other two textures. The first of these was in the lymphatic glands of the lungs, properly so called, which are smaller than the bronchial glands, more regularly rounded, and harder; and these he con- ceived became the seat of tubercular infiltration in certain forms of consumption, in which the disease began by plethoric or inflamma- tory symptoms. The other texture in which he admitted that tubercles might e formed, is the cellular or filamentous tissue around the lympha- tic glands, that is, the parenchyma of the lungs, agreeing in this respect with Stark and Baillie. This takes place, however, only under particular circumstances. After adverting to the induration ol the lungs of phthisical persons, and their increased weight above