545 SKIN. animal, and specified the differential characters between it and the vegetable mite.* In 1786 and afterwards in 1791, Wichmann, a physician at Hanover, published a work on the itch insect}; and his descriptions were verified by Goeze. From the testimony of these observers it might have been ex- pected that the existence of the itch insect was recognized as esta- blished. English dermatologists were, however, sceptical; and they were supported on the continent by the authority of Sagar, Bal- dinger, Jonas}, Volkmann,§ Hartmann,|| Weise, Alexander, and Mieg; and this feeling was increased by Joseph Adams, who, while he showed that a particular kind of insect(ou9ao) burrows in tbe skin in the natives of Madeira, maintained that, as this was not the itch insect, no animal of that kind existed. This scepticism, both among English and French physicians, was much increased by the pro- ceedings of M. Gales, a pupil of Alibert, who, in 1812, presented as the genuine itch entozoon, figures and bodies of the common cheese mite. At length, however, in 1831, M. Raspail having discovered in the itch pustules of the horse, an insect similar to that delineated by De Geer, was satisfied that it was possible to discover a similar parasite in the itch eruption of the human race. It was, however, still the entomologists of the south of Europe who were to deter- mine this as an unquestioned fact. M. Renucci, a student of me- dicine from Corsica, surprised to find the existence of the insect questioned, showed it to several observers, among others to M. Raspail; and it is solely to the labours of the latter that we are in- debted for a correct description of this long doubted and doubtful animal. 11 The itch insect is white at first sight, but with some reddish- brown points on its circumference. It may be seen without a * De Geer Memoires pour servir a l’histoire des Insectes. Stockholm, 1778. 4to, T. VII. p. 92, PI. 5. t Jo. Ernest Wichmann TEtiologie von der Kraze. Hanover, 1786. t Jonas Dissert. Dubia circa JEtiologiam Wichmannianam Scabiei. ’ Halae, 1787. § Volkmann Diss. sistens qusstiones mcdicas super Wichmanni JEtiologia Scabiei. Francofurti ad Viadr, 1787. II Hartmann Dissert. Qmestiones super Wichmanni apologia Scabiei. Fr., 1789. H Bulletin General de Therapeutique, Septembre 1834. Raspail Memoire Comparatif sur l’histoire naturelle de l’insecte de la Gale. Fig. Bvo. Paris, 1834. M m