• 737 SEROUS MEMBRANE—TUBERCLES. reason to believe that they are in all cases preceded hy congestion of the capillaries; for most of those which are hitherto accurately recorded were connected with marks of inflammation, and some with organic lesion. I have yet to observe, that the serous membranes are liable to become simultaneously the seat of hemorrhage in land-scurvy and in sea-scurvy. In the former disease, these membranes have been found occupied not only by petechial spots and dark or livid blotches, but with considerable effusion of fluid blood. Of this, the cases of Or Duncan Junior and Mr William Wood are the best examples. In extreme cases of scurvy the same extravasation takes place. III. Dropsies.—Of abnormal accumulation of serous fluid within the serous membranes I have nothing to add to what is already said in the chapter on the exhalants. These accumulations may almost invariably be traced to disease of the contained organs, or of other organs, as the heart, liver, kidneys, or tubercular deposit in the membranes. IV. Air is not unfrequently effused into cavities formed by serous tissue. Besides the form of pneumothorax, which results from fistu- lous opening of the lung, another may take place from laceration or wound of the lung. In the peritonaeum it is the result either of inflammation, of gangrene and decomposition of serum, of ulcera- tive perforation, or of organic disease producing the same effect. V. Tubercles.—Tubercular deposition of different kinds is fre- quent in the serous membranes. The exact nature of the deposi- tion, however, is not well defined. The tubercular diseases occur- ring in serous membranes are of two sorts, the genuine tyromatotis, or that in which tyromatous matter is deposited, in irregular or amorphous masses in the membrane,—and the cencliroid or miliary, in which minute lenticular bodies hard as cartilage, but opaque or semi-transparent, are developed in these membranes. § 1. The tyromatous deposition occurs in these membranes, but most frequently in the peritonaeum, in which it was originally ob- served by Morgagni, Lieutaud, and Bail lie, afterwards well described by I>r Baron, and Scoutetten, and observed by Dr Moncricff. They are round bodies, varying in size from a vetch or garden-pea to a bean, not always regular in shape, of caseous consistence, and generally softened in the centre. They cause inflammation of the membrane. In the pleura tubercles arc noticed by Morgagni, Lieu- 3 A.