STRUMOUS TUBERCLES. ENKEPHALOMA. 911 > neral, however, it proves fatal, partly by the imperfect digestion from want of proper bile, and partly by the abdominal dropsy. C. Tubercles.—Bodies quite similar to the tubercular masses of the lung have been observed in the liver; and these are then to be viewed as the tubercular form of struma. In other instances strumous abscesses, like those already described, may be regarded as the softening or liquefying stage of the tyromatous deposit. Baillie, however, admits that tubercle is a rare disease of the liver. They appear to have been observed by Portal who, however, has spoken of them as gelatiniform mucous and albuminous formations within the liver. A case in a person of 19 is given by Dr Bramer of Cassel.* The soft brown tubercles of the liver, mentioned by Baillie as bo- dies situate at or near the surface of the liver, and consisting of smooth soft brownish-coloured matter, appear to have been either > clots of blood, the effects of hemorrhage, or instances of melanosis. D. Scirrhus and Enkf.phaloma.—Though instances of scir- rhus are represented by many writers to have been found in the liver, yet if we apply the elucidations and distinctions of accurate observation and pathology, scarcely one of these can be recognized as genuine examples of that species of structure. I have already shown that skleroma or simple induration and kirrhosis have been referred to the head of skirrhus of the liver; and I think it not doubtful that any kind of hard structure of unusual characters has been considered as instances of scirrhus. On the whole, genuine skirrhus is a rare formation in the liver ; and probably only ap- pears in it by extension from ether organs, especially the stomach. From the observations in the next article, however, it must be al- lowed that if genuine skirrhus be not observed in the liver, it has its representative in the kindred form of morbid structure called Enkephaloma. Enkephaloma must be regarded as the true form in which skir- rhus appears in the liver; and in this organ it is extremely common. It appears in three forms, which are probably only different stages of the same morbid change. First, there are formed in the liver irregularly rounded nodules of whitish or whitish-gray matter, varying from the size of a filbert’to that of a walnut, or larger. When these bodies are divided, they have a consistence between that of cream cheese and the unboiled po- tato. The section is quite homogeneous, and totally void of any Patjst’s Allgemeine medizin. Zeitung, 1838. N. 15-19.