515 SKIN. its upper surface is uneven, the margin being more elevated than the centre, and shining, firm, and distended, so as to project slightly beyond the plane of its base, or unaffected cuticle. This appearance it presents till the eighth day, when the surface is observed on the ninth to be even ; and in some instances the centre may be higher than the margin. At this time, when the vesicle is supposed to be fully formed, it is found to consist of many minute communicating cells, in which the fluid is contained. This cellular disposition is characteristic of the vaccine vesicle; for it is found to occur under every variety of circumstances when the origin of the vesicle is genuine, and its progress uninterrupted. 2. The circumstance now remarked may be regarded as denot- ing the termination of the first and the commencement of the second stage. About the same time, the skin round the vesicle becomes hard, tense, and red, so as to form a ring or hoop, from one to two lines broad all round, and from a quarter of an inch to two inches in diameter, according to the size of the vesicle. This hard red hoop, which has been named areola, marks an augment or increase of inflammation in the substance of the corion, which continues with pain, tension, and hardness, in some instances with obvious swell- ing of the contiguous parts, till the end of the tenth or the begin- ning of the eleventh day. At the same time the fluid of the vesi- cle becomes opaque and thick like purulent matter, rendering the centre yellowish, and depriving it of its pearly distended aspect. On the eleventh and twelfth days, as the marginal redness fades, the surface of the vesicle becomes brown in the centre, and less clear on the margin; the cuticle begins to be separated; andthe fluid of the vesicle gradually thickens into a hard round scab or crust of a reddish or yellow brown colour, which afterwards becomes black, dry, and shrivelled, and is loosened, and drops off about the twentieth day after the time when the vaccine fluid was first ap- plied. It leaves a permanent uniform scar, distinguished by mi- nute pits or depressions corresponding to the number of cells of which the vesicle consisted. During the progress of the local inflammation some disorder of the constitution takes place generally about the seventh or eighth day, in the form of loss of appetite or sickness, slight thirst and heat, and dryness of the skin. The pulse is almost never affected. The vaccine vesicle may also produce sundry cutaneous inflammations, very transitory, and of a secondary nature. Of these the vaccine rose-rash (roseola vaccina) is the most important and frequent.