ADIPOSE TISSUE. Inflammation attacking the subcutaneous adipose tissue is liable to produce death, not only in that membrane but in the skin, in- flammation and death in the muscles, inflammation in the subcu- taneous veins, and inflammation and death in the tendons. Inflammation attacking the periangial adipose tissue is liable o be followed not only by death in that tissue itself, but by inflam- mation, death, and ulceration of the arterial tunics, and consequent hemorrhage, inflammation of the veins, with obliteration of then- canal, and denudation of the nerves. Inflammation attacking the medullary or endosteal adipose tissue produces suppuration and causes death in the bone, (Necrosis,) and in the cancellated tissue the phenomena of the disease named Spina ventosa. When inflammation affects the adipose membrane it may assume either the limited or the diffuse form, but is most frequently jper- haps seen in the latter state. It appears to have been an opinion entertained by Boerhaave and several of his pupils, that phlegmon, or common acute circum- scribed inflammation, is seated in the adipose membrane; and one of these writers, Hulsebusch, announces this proposition formally in a dissertation. The same doctrine was afterwards taught in this country by Bromfield, who allowed that the adipose membrane is quite distinct from the filamentous tissue,* and further believed, that extravasated fluid would sooner be converted into purulent * “ I may be singular in what I am going to advance, viz. that in general the adi- pose membrane is the seat of abscesses, especially those that are circumscribed. “ I hope T am understood, that I suppose what is generally defined a phlegmon or critical abscess, in which a large quantity of matter is collected, to be formed in the membrana adiposa." In the following passage he gives the first description of diffuse inflammation. “ Nevertheless, I am extremely sensible, that the cellular or connect- ing membrane is frequently the seat of mischief, as the receptacle of some extravasat- ed humour, where the fluids in general have a tendency to sphacelation ; and under such circumstances it is well known, that the humour, instead of being collected and forming an abscess, will be diffused proportionate to the quantity extravasated, and form sloughs, throughout a whole limb, and where probably, the external appearance of sphacelation shall not exceed the size of a crown-piece, the mortification will then discover itself soon after, at a small distance ; and we shall find in the end, that it has not only crept under the skin, but has burrowed deep between the muscles, and through some of these sphacelated parts, sloughs of an immense length are frequently drawn out, which prove to be the cellular membrane ; in which case, if the patient does not sink under the discharge, the neighbouring parts must, in healing, unavoid- ably unite, and consequently the limb be abridged of its motion, as far as the free motion of the muscles, one over the other, is hardened by this union.”— Chirurgical Observations, Vol. I. chapter iii. p. 04 and 95.