52 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. thors on anatomy. The last writer indeed states, that under the skin it is more consistent, and that in various living animals he never found it so fluid as is represented. The truth is, that in the human body, and in most mammiferous animals during life, the fat is neither fluid nor semifluid. It is simply soft, yielding, and com- pressible, with a slight degree of transparency or rather transl li- cence. This is easily established by observing it during incisions through the adipose membrane, either in the human body or in the lower animals. The properties and composition of fat form a subject for chemi- cal rather than anatomical inquiry ; and in this respect its nature has been particularly investigated by M. Chevreul. According to the researches of this chemist, fat consists essentially of two proxi- mate principles, stearine (sc«g, sebum, sapo), and elaine, oleum.) The former is a solid substance, colourless, tasteless, and almost inodorous, soluble in alcohol, and preserving its solidity at a temperature of 138° centigrade. Elaine, on the-contrary, though colourless, or at most of a yellow tint, and lighter than water, is fluid at a temperature of from 17° to 18° centigrade, and is great- ly more soluble in alcohol. Of this substance marrow appears to be merely a modification ; and the membranous cavities or medul- lary membrane in which it is contained may be viewed as an intra- osseous adipose tissue. Little doubt can be entertained that animal fat is the result of a process of secretion. But it is no easy matter to determine the mode in which this is effected. Malpighi, departing, however, from strict observation, imagined a set of ducts issuing from glands, in which he conceived the fat to be elaborated and prepared. To this he appears to have been led by his study of the lymphatic glands, and inability to comprehend how the process of secretion could be performed by arteries only. This doctrine, however, was overthrown by the strong arguments which Ruysch derived from his injections; and Malpighi himself afterwards acknowledged its weakness and renounced it. In short, neither the glands nor the ducts of the adipose membrane have ever been seen. Winslow, though willing to adopt the notion of Malpighi, ad- mits, however, that the particular organ by which the fat is sepa- rated from the blood was unknown. Haller, on the contrary, aware environs du cceur, des gros vaisseaux, &e. Sous la peau ellc est constamment plus consistante.”—Anatomie General, Tome I. p. 59. 4