VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. 125 tion in the organs of circulation, much general fever, a brownish tint of the complexion, glaring, injected, suffused, or turbid eyes, and more or less affection of the intellectual functions, and if con- siderable, generally proves fatal. Inflammation of the inner venous membrane I have represented generally to succeed violence offered to the vessel; but what sort of violence is requisite is not well known. I have in two or three instances thought I could trace it to wound, laceration, or pressure in the site of a valve ; but in others this could not be established. I have seen the disease so often take place after application of the finger to the wound in the vein at the bend of tbe arm, in the common operation of venesection, that I cannot doubt that it is often produced in this manner. The perspiration on the finger acts like an irritant poison to the cut edges of the vein, and there- by causes inflammation. It was also a very common accident after injecting saline solutions during the epidemic cholera in 1832. In the veins of the womb, after parturition, it may follow the forcible revulsion of the placenta; or the sinuses being left open and patent, air from the atmosphere, or from the decomposition of the blood, or the uterus, may enter these canals and irritate or inflame their coats. In this organ it is most common along the lateral regions of the womb. The circumstances under which phlebitis may take place may be enumerated in the following order. 1st, After venesection, especially when the finger is applied to the wound so as to touch the divided edges of the vein; 2d, After amputation, especially when there is much fingering, or when a ligature is put on a vein; 3d, After laceration of a vein, as in certain lacerated wounds; 4th, After any venous tube has been laid open by ulceration or erosion, as in cancer or ulceration of the womb; 5th, After laying open the uterine veins, as in child-bear- ing ; 6th, After deligation of a vein, as in the operation for varix, the old operation for castration, in which all the vessels were tied in one mass, and after operations on the hemorrhoidal veins. This process is known to take place spontaneously in the veins of the brain and in those of the womb. The latter Dr Clarke* and Mr Wilsonf found filled with purulent matter or lymph in the per- sons of females cut off by puerperal fever ; and in a number of fatal cases of the same disease, I saw these veins containing purulent * Practical Essays on the Management of Pregnancy, p. G3, 72. t Transactions of a Society, Vol. III. p. 63 and p. 80.