GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 634 After the disease in the mucous membrane of the caecum has sub- sisted for some time, with or without ulceration of the caecum, it is followed by inflammation taking place in the cellular tissue at the posterior part of the caecum. The latter bowel, it must be remem- bered, is tied down and fixed by cellular tissue to the right iliac fossa immediately before the lumbar and iliacus interims muscles. The inflammation passes to this cellular tissue; and in it causes effusion of lymph and purulent matter, forming a sort of abscess round and behind the caecum. In the right iliac region there is then recognized a tumour compressible and doughy, and giving a sense of deep-seated matter; painful when pressed at certain points, and tending, as in the last case, to advance to the surface. The disease then shows itself under the form of abscess of the right iliac region. In this state after matter has been formed one of two results may take place. Either the inflammatory action continuing and the suppurative action advancing, a communication by ulceration may be opened into the caecum, and through this the matter con- tained in the tumour passes gradually but speedily into the colon, and is thus discharged into the bowels. Then, if adhesive inflam- mation and lymphy deposit take place, the tumour is emptied of its contents and recovery is accomplished, the inflammation and suppuration being confined to the immediate neighbourhood and attachments of the caecum. Secondly, it may happen that either with or without the open- ing into the caecum the agglutinative or adhesive inflammation is imperfect and inert. Lymph is not effused in sufficient quantity to stop the spreading of the suppuration. Matter is effused or in- filtrated into the cellular tissue all round and downwards over the surface of the iliacus internus muscle ; and after great ravages are committed, it appears forming an outlet at the margin of the anus. This is an unfavourable result, because the matter in advancing to the surface is attended with much destruction of parts; and be- cause the progressive advancement of the disease denotes a defi- ciency of healthy agglutinative and reparative action. In the third place, the suppurative process may advance to the surface, causing superficial abscess in the right iliac region and ulcerative openings to discharge the purulent contents of the deep- seated abscess. This appears to be not very common ; but it oc- curs in a certain number of cases. It is not very favourable.