GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 50 it is always possible to distinguish the latter from the filamentous tissue, even if it contain no fat, by the toughness of its fibres, and the coarseness of the web which they make. The distinguishing characters between the cellular or filamentous and the adipose tissue may be stated in the following manner. ls£, The vesicles of the adipose membrane are closed all round, and, unlike the cellular tissue, they cannot be generally penetrated by fluids which are made to enter them. If the temperature of a portion of adipose membrane be raised by means of warm water to the liquefying point of the contents, they will remain unmoved so long as the structure of the vesicles is not injured by the heat. If, again, an adipose packet be exposed to a solar heat of -f- 40 centigr. though the fat be completely liquefied, not a drop will escape, un- til the vesicles are divided or otherwise opened, when it appears in abundance. The adipose matter, therefore, though fluid or semi- fluid in the living body, does not, like dropsical infiltration, obey the impulse of gravity. 2d, The adipose vesicles do not form, like cellular tissue, a continuous whole, but are simply in mutual con- tiguity. This arrangement is demonstrated by actual inspection, but becomes more conspicuous in the case of dropsical effusions, when the filamentous tissue interposed between the adipose mole- cules is completely infiltrated, while the latter are entirely unaffect- ed. 3d. The anatomical situation of the adipose tissue is different from that of the filamentous tissue. The former is found, 1st, In a considerable layer immediately beneath the skin; 2d, Between the peritoneal folds which form the omentum and mesentery; 3d, Be- tween the serous and muscular tissues of the heart; and 4th, Round each kidney. In each of these situations it varies in quantity and in physical properties. In the least corpulent persons a portion of fat is depo- sited in the adipose membrane of the cheeks, orbits, palms of the hand, soles of the feet, pulp of the fingers and toes, flexures of the joints, round the kidney, beneath the cardiac serous membrane, and between the layers of the mesentery and omentum. In the more corpulent, and chiefly in females, it is found not merely in these situations, but extended in a layer of some thickness almost uni- formly over the whole person ; but is very abundant in the neck, breasts, belly, mans veneris, and flexures of the joints. Besides the delicate cellular tissue by which the packets and vesicles arc united, the adipose tissue receives arterial and venous