WORMS.—ENKEPHALOMA OF THE LUNGS. 1037 of serous cysts than that of acephalocysts. The author neverthe- less maintains its validity, because hydatids are found in the blood, and their ova may therefore be effused with it. To this it may be answered, that, admitting that hydatids or their germs exist in the blood, it must be easy for them to find their way into the lungs without the effusion of blood. Hydatids, when existing in the lungs, either cause suppuration and then expulsion with more or less disorder, general and local; or they may die; the cysts contract and become opake; and they then form a sort of lamellated tumour, the presence of which does not appear to be detrimental. b. Worms.—Instances are recorded by several authors, among others Schenke, of worms having been discharged from the luno-s. It has been generally believed—that these cases were the result of the credulity of the recorders; and so perhaps some of them may. The same objection, however, can scarcely be urged against a case recorded by Dr Thomas Percival, who mentions that a patient, aged 49, after cough and oppression at the breast, expelled by coughing, in February 1774, two masses, the largest the size of a nutmeg, of a chocolate colour, upon dividing which it was found to contain a number of worms like maggots. The cou°-h and expectoration diminished in severity; but the result as to find recovery is not stated.* § 14. Heterologous Growths.—Both skirrhus and enkepha- loma have been represented to be found in the lungs. As to the latter there is no doubt. The occurrence of the former is more ques- tionable. H Bayle was the first who in 1810 directed attention to the precise character of cancer in the lungs. He gives three cases; in the first of wh.ch the cancerous masses were hard, and presented the white shining appearance of fresh bacon or lard. In the other two the tumours bore the characters of brain or genuine enkephaloma. These were instances of enkephaloid disease affecting the luntrs r- of Cancer found in these organs is the medullary sarkom^or enkephalo.d deposit! and if careful attention be given to the eases which were published both before and since' his time, we shall see reason to admit, that this inference is well founded. V.i ""d B, Thomas P«oivaJ, *