BONE. 477 to take place. Adhesive inflammation comes on ; lymph is effused; a stop is put to the disorganizing action; and new ossific matter being formed, sometimes with the preservation of the articulation, sometimes with ankylosis, partial or complete, the disease altogether disappears. The disease is liable to affect the vertebrae, and often does affect them. There, however, it is much, less likely to subside. In short, as it most frequently attacks bones which have cancellated tissue, as the short bones and the vertebrae, so it in them causes most ha- voc, and is least likely to undergo this spontaneous cure. This disease affects mostly and preferably young persons. It begins to appear about the 6th or 7th year; and may take place at any time between that and the 21st year. After the latter pe- riod it is much less common, but may take place, especially in fe- males. I have seen it, nevertheless, in some rare cases, affecting the bones of the feet in men above 40 and 50. c. The third source of disease in the osseous texture are the arti- cular synovial membranes and cartilages. Inflammation of the first soon passes to the second, in which it causes erosion or ulce- rative absorption. From the cartilage this may proceed progres- sively to the epiphyses, the upper surface of which is sooner or later excavated into numerous holes or caverns of various size and shape. This process, which I refer to the vessels passing from the cartilage to the medullary web of the epiphyses, is accompanied with deep-seated aching pain, particularly distressing during the night. It is very common in that form of disease of the joints which arises from inflammation of the synovial membrane and car- tilages ; and several instances are recorded by authors.* It occurs in the hip-joint, and knee-joint especially, and is one of the preli- minary steps to ankylosis. I have seen this take place in the knee- joint, *and have ascertained the point by dissection. This also is one of the modes in which the vertebrae become ca- rious. Chronic inflammation affects the synovial membrane and cartilages of an oblique process, and passing into the bone produces ulceration and carious excavations. This process not unfrequently causes in the incumbent and contiguous textures, irritative suppu- ration constituting an extensive abscess, which, according to cir- cumstances, may take the anterior, the posterior, or the inferior di- * See Cheston, who delineates two examples of it, and is at some pains to distin- guish it from spina ventosa.