INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—-DYSENTERY. 639 5 7. Colonia. Dysentery. Cofomfe—The opra,on that dysen- tery depends on inflammation of the bowels is very ancient; but the authority of Cullen succeeded for a time in throwing doubt and obscurity on a doctrine, in favour of which various positive and un- equivocal facts have since been collected. The state of the intes- tines in this disease has been described by Pringle, Baker, Donald Monro, blunter, and Baillie, Cheyne, and O’Brien ; and their ac- counts, with some trifling exceptions, in general correspond n four dissections made by Pringle in the Flanders campaign ° > the villous coat of the colon was red or vascular, and abraded or ulcerated ; the lower end of the colon, and. generally the rectum, was in a state termed mortification ; the ligamentous bands are said to he relaxed, half corrupted, or entirely obliterated; and the colon, sometimes the ileum and stomach, much distended by air.* * * § In the inspections recorded by Baker of the London epidemic of 1762, the villous membrane of the rectum, colon, caecum, and occasionally part of the ileum, was more or less reddened, vel- vety-granular, and occupied by numerous minute bodies like sin all-pox pustules, but harder and solid when divided, and fun- gous eminences. These hard pustules and fungous eminences were manifestly seated in the isolated follicles. In one case four or five perforations had taken place in the transverse arch of the colon.t In persons cut off by old dysentery, Monro repre- sents the villous membrane of the rectum and colon as inflam- ed, with livid spots in the arch of the latter; and in one seized by violent pains of the bowels two days before death the ileum was reddened.^ From a subsequent account by the same author, it appears that the colic mucous membrane as high as the valve, was occupied by livid or black spots of vaiious size, occasioned by black blood in the submucous filamentous tissue; and that in the centre of each spot there was more or less erosion of the villous membrane. Though no black spots or erosions were seen in the mucous membrane of the ileum, in one or two minute red spots, and slight traces of inflammation were recognized.§ The general accuracy of these statements is briefly confirmed by F. L. Bang in * Observations on the Diseases of the Army, by Sir John Pringle, M. D. London, 17GB. Chap. 6. T De Catarrho et de Dysenteria Londinensi epidernicis utrisque, anno 1762, Libelhis. Auct. G. Baker, Coll. R. &c. Lond. 1764. X An account of the Diseases, &c. By Donald Monro, M. D. Lond. 1764. § Essays and Observations, Physical and Literary, Vol. iii. article 25.