420 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. progress, and effects of the disease. It is unnecessary to repeat the considerations above adduced from the anatomical relations and characters of fascia and its various divisions. That they are the chief seat of acute rheumatism may be inferred from the following circumstances. 1. When the rheumatic action is seated in muscular parts, in- stead of being confined to the muscular fibres, it may always be referred to the aponeurotic membrane which covers or penetrates them. 2. The peculiar pains of rheumatism are always most dis- tinct in those situations in which several folds of aponeurotic mem- brane meet; and their migrations may be traced from one extre- mity to another of an aponeurotic membrane, and along the course of its principal divisions. 3. The kind of pain which attends rheu- matism resembles that of the fibrous tissues in general when inflamed in undergoing aggravation under the influence of external heat and during the night. 4, This view of the seat of rheumatic disorder affords the most probable explanation of the effusion which takes place in the tendinous sheaths (bursa mucosa ;) and even occasion- ally within the joints; for since each sheath is partly enveloped in aponeurotic membrane, and every articulation is covered by fas- ciae inserted into the capsules or periosteum, the inflammatory pro- cess which takes place in the fascia soon gives rise, as in analogous cases, to effusion, critical or non-critical, from the contiguous syno- vial membrane. 5. This view also affords the most rational expla- nation of the fact remarked by all authors, that rheumatism almost never terminates in suppuration. To suppose that muscle does not suppurate, is perhaps erroneous from what has been above adduced. That fascia and fibrous tissue in general is little disposed to suppu- rate, unless when mechanically injured, is manifest from a number of circumstances; and this may perhaps be regarded as the true explanation of the fact now noticed. 6. It must further be remarked, that inflammation in this tissue renders it thick, hard, and rigid, and occasionally causes between its fibres effusion of lymph, which increases this thickening, induration, and rigidity. On these changes depend the immobility of rheumatic parts, and the loss of power which follows long and obstinate, or neglected and repeated, attacks of the disease. The question, whether there be any thing peculiar in the nature of rheumatic inflammation is not undeserving attention. This, how- ever, is not the place for discussing it; and if the views now advanced