BRAIN. 253 noticed here merely as an integrant part of those views which I apply to the organ at large. The central or figurate surface exposed in the manner now ex- plained is smooth, polished, and possesses a degree of firmness and closeness of texture which prevents it from being readily broken or abraded. These qualities are ascribed by Reil to a thin mem- branous pellicle, which he terms Epithelion, and with which he conceives the proper matter of the brain is covered.* Trusting to ordinary inspection, aided by a good glass, I do not think there is any sensible proof of the existence of this covering. It is more natural to regard it as cerebral matter modified for its situation. In point of fact, the deep cerebral matter may be rendered equally firm with this by immersion in alcohol or dilute acids. But no- thing can give the smooth, polished, close-grained surface which belongs to every spot of this part of the brain. After this expla- nation, I shall not scruple to use the term Epithelion, not in the sense given by Reil, but merely as a name to the firm smooth sub- stance which forms the figurate surface of the brain. In certain situations this surface is unusually firm, for instance in the narrow winding hollow between the striated bodies and the optic eminences. (Centrum semicirculare geminum, Vieussens ; tcenia semicircularis, Haller.) Of the central surface, not only docs every division mutually communicate, but the whole central surface of the convoluted brain communicates with the central sur- face of the laminated part of the organ. Thus the lateral divisions, called ventricles, communicate freely and directly with each other below the vault or twain-band ; (fornix, Die Zwillingsbinde ;) the surface of which lies free over the top of the tlialami. These again communicate with the intermediate space called the third ventricle, from which it is well known there is a passage to the space between the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum. The communication with the posterior and inferior divisions, (cornua), is well known. The whole of this surface is covered by a vascular membrane, which is a continuation of that (pia mater) of the convoluted sur- face. One part of this which lies over the objects in the lateral ventricles has been long known under the name of choroid plexus; and an intermediate portion by which those of the two sides are united, has been distinguished by the term velum interpositum. Not only are each of these parts of the same membrane, and con- Archiv. fur die Physiologie, 9ter Band, 3. Untersuchungen, &c. p. 143.