536 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. seen on the forehead, face, neck, groin, and round the anus. These increase for six or ten days, when their tops are covered by a crust; and an opaque whitish fluid, which is ill formed matter, may be recognized. Thus converted into pustules, they gradually en- large, still covered by crusts, which are loose and irregular, until they attain the size of a sixpence or even of a shilling,—the largest being in general those which appeared flrst. If in this state the crust be removed, it exposes a foul sloughy sore, or, according to Adams, a rough whitish surface consisting partly of slough, partly of living animal matter. The pustules may also burst spontane- ously, and discharge thick viscid matter, which hardens into a foul crust or scab on the surface. In the large pustules from this sur- face at length shoots up a red granulated excrescence composed of minute lobes, not unlike a wild rasp or mulberry, which is the proper yaw, and gives the disease its peculiar appearance and cha- racter. Its size varies according to that of the pustule from which it rises, from a pea to that of a mulberry of considerable dimen- sions. Its colour also varies according to that of the general health of the subject. In the healthy and robust it is red like a piece of flesh and prominent; in the weakly and puny it is pale and white like a piece of cauliflower, not elevated, and bleeds on the slightest touch. The yaw-fungus has little sensibility, and does not smart when capsicum-juice is applied, never suppurates perfectly, but discharges a sordid glutinous fluid, which dries into a scab round the edges of the excrescence and covers its upper part, it much elevated, with white sloughs. This glutinous fluid is the proper yawey matter, and communicates the disease by inoculation. The time at which the fungous granulation rises is irregular. Thomson met with it so early as one month and so late as three after the first appearance of the eruption ; and he concludes that its formation cannot be taken as a mark of the second stage of the disease, as was thought by Adams.* Each pustule, as it attains a certain size, undergoes the same process. After remaining some time, the yaw gradually contracts, diminishes in height, and, as the pustule heals, is finally covered by skin. It leaves in general no mark except in those places in which inflammation has been violent, when a scar similar to that of cow-pock, but broader and more su- perficial, is left. This description shows not only that yaws are an inflammatory * Morbid Poisons, p. 201.