GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 248 (corpora striata) and the optic chambers (thalami optici,) until the whole be completely insulated. If these incisions be properly ma- naged, the whole of the middle band, the vault, the cylindroid pro- cess, and the white tape, will be left uninjured, and will present a large hollow surrounded by an extensive border, the posterior part of which is made by the posterior end of the central band, while la- teral divisions are formed by the cylindroid process of either side. The observer will likewise form a very just idea of the situation and connections of the middle band, and will perceive that its infe- rior surface is the same as that named vault, or ceiling. He will further remark, that the thin white plates (tcenice) which are attach- ed to the margins of this object, and between which is the space improperly named the lyre, extend in a circular and revolute di- rection outwards and downwards, so as to cover, in the mode de- scribed, the gray band of the cylinder, and give this object its cy- lindrical aspect. The correct understanding of the outer border of this commu- nication should be followed by an equally just idea of those parts which form what we must name its inner border. These are more numerous and rather more complicated; but frequent examination, with a little attention, will enable the student to overcome all the difficulties with which they may be attended. The parts contained in the mass of brain removed, as we described in the last section, will contribute also very much to render the knowledge of this border easy and intelligible. I have already said, that at the posterior end of the middle hand the inner or lower border is formed by the four eminences (c. quadrigemina) situate on the upper surface of the thick mass named protuberance. On each side of these the inner border is formed hy"successive portions of the optic chamber, until it has reached the inferior region of this body, where the outer and lower margin of the limb of the brain becomes the border of the opening. To render this arrangement more intelligible, I shall here state some circumstances of the fi- gurate surface, which are either omitted or indistinctly mentioned in the ordinary descriptions. Its principal objects are familiarly known; and none can he igno- rant of the situation of the striated bodies, the optic chamber, the semicircular chord between them, and other similar objects. The posterior eminences, or the optic chambers, hold the most