GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 588 In this case the piece of money had produced inflammation, first in the large bronchial tubes, where it was fixed, then in the lung, and afterwards in the pleura.* 3. In the case communicated by M. Lenglet to M. De laMartiniere in which a splinter of bone triangular in shape, with sharp angles and cutting edges, one side 9 lines long, had remained 10 months in the bronchial tubes, the right lung was natural, but the left in a state of putrefaction. About four inches below the bifurcation on the left side was a preternatural cavity of the capacity of a large nutmeg; and in this cavity the bone had been lodged.f 4. In the case given by Dr Milroy, in the centre of the right lung was found a large abscess containing about twenty ounces of purulent matter, of reddish-brown colour, and fetid odour. The piece of chicken bone, which was light and porous, weighing only six grains, lay in the upper part of the right bronchus, close to the •bifurcation of the trachea. This tube (I suppose the right bron- chus) communicated with the upper part of the abscess. 5. In the case given by Scbroeder, the right lung was occupied by several tubercles, among which was a vomica in the middle lobe, filled not with purulent matter but with black gore. The left lung contained everywhere tubercles and several small vomicae, and in the left bronchus about one inch from the bifurcation of the trachea was a splinter of bone covered with black viscid mucus. This bone was rough, and its angles had so completely penetrated the bronchial mucous membrane, that it could be moved neither upwards nor downward. 6. In the case given by Dr Houston, the broken tooth was found lying in the right bronchial tube about one inch beyond its com- mencement, with the fangs directed towards the lung, and the broken surface of the crown towards the larynx. It lay loose and unattached, and when caught between the points of the scissors was readily removed. The broken surface fitted accurately to that of the crown as presented by the patient to Dr Houston. The right lung adhered to the pleura costalis everywhere except behind, where bloody fluid lay between the pleurae. The adhesions were soft and easily broken; the right pulmonic pleura was livid. The substance of the right lung was dense and indurated through- • Memoires de l’Academie Royale tie Chinirgic, Tome V., p. 528-5.il • 1 ansj 1774. f Tbid. p. 533. Paris, 1774.