430 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. gradually raised to whiteness, it burns first with flame, and at length becomes quite red. If then it be removed carefully and slowly cooled, it appears as white as chalk, is found to be very brittle, and to have lost something of its weight. Yet neither in this case does any part of its substance appear to be removed, nor is its mechanical figure or appearance altered. Chemical examination, however, informs us that in the first case a portion of earthy matter (phosphate of lime) is removed by the agency of the acid, and held suspended in the fluid, while the pliant, but otherwise identical piece of bone consists chiefly, if not entirely, of animal matter; and that, in the second case, this animal matter is removed by destructive decomposition, while the earthy matter is left little changed by the action of fire. It is therefore to be concluded, that every particle of bone, however minute, consists of animal or organic, and earthy or inorganic matter intimately united; and that it is impossible to touch with the point of the smallest needle any part of bone which is not thus constituted. A piece of bone consists not of cartilaginous fibres varnished over, as Heris- sant imagined, with earthy matter, but of a substance in which every constituent atom consists essentially of animal and earthy matter intimately combined. There is therefore no rational ground for dividing osseous tissue into compact and spongy, as the older anatomists did; for though the middle or solid parts of long bones are denser and heavier than the ends of these bones, or the bodies of the vertebra, the differ- ence consists not in chemical composition, but in mechanical ar- rangement and structure. On dividing the head of a long bone, the lattice-work or cancelli, as they are named, are formed by many minute threads of bone, crossing and interlacing with each other. But each thread is quite as dense, and consists of the same quan- tity of animal and earthy matter as the most solid part of the centre of the same bone. These threads, however, instead of being dis- posed closely and compactly with each other, so as to take a small space, are so arranged that they occupy a large one, and present a considerable bulk The minute anatomical structure of bone was again investigated by Deutsch in 1834, and by Muller and Miescher in 1836. The former observed the pores or tubules of Havers, (canaliculi Ilaversiani) to he surrounded with concentric lamella, and the me- dullary canal in the cylindrical bones to be inclosed by another