GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 348 lobe of the cerebellum a body one inch long and ten lines broad, composed of alternate layers of chalky matter, fluid albumen and solid albumen.* Lastly, Andral in a phthisical subject found, in the substance of the left hemisphere, near its upper anterior extre- mity, a granulation the size of a large pea, with the consistence of the calcareous concretions of the lung.f In such cases a minute portion of brain appears not to be con- verted into bone, but to be infiltrated with chalky matter, void of animal substance so far as can be discovered. Of these earthy de- posits no analysis has yet been made. It is, however, not impro- bable that they consist chiefly of lime, united either with carbonic or phosphoric acid, or both. Dr Hooper has delineated in his twelfth engraving a bony tumour, or what he names a tubercle, which is said to consist of the same materials as healthy bone, with a little more animal matter. It is not stated whether this was found in the cerebral substance or connected with the membranes. From its appearance, however, and the fact now stated of its che- mical character, I think it next to certain that it was of the latter description. Upon the whole, it may be inferred that the sub- stances denominated concretions of the brain consist of infiltrations or depositions of calcareous matter in the substance of the organ. To this head may be referred the concretions found in the cona- rium or pineal gland. In this body small sabulous or calcareous particles have been very often found; and it was long supposed, partly in consequence of the hypothetical opinions of Descartes, that this change could not fail to affect materially the functions of the entire organ. For correct information on this point, we are indebted to Soemmering, who showed by the collation of numerous cases, that scarcely any person arrived at the age of puberty, though in the best health and the most perfect enjoyment of his faculties, could assure himself that his conarium did not contain calcareous matter. He regards it as part of the natural structure. Though Soemmering states that sabulous deposition is found in the conarium of infants as well as adults, he nowhere specifies the exact authority for this fact; and the youngest subjects on which he records its occurrence were 14 and 16.J The Wenzels assert * Abercrombie, Pathological and Pract. Researches, p. 42(5. f Journal de Physiologie, Tome ii. p. 110. + S. T. Soemmering de Acervulo Cerebri Dissert. Apud Ludwig, Scriptorum Neu- rolog. nunc Delect, p 422, 329.