GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 750 § 2. Velvet-like Degeneration.—I have already mentioned the gra- nular and villous state of the synovial membrane. It is not easy to say whether the change next to be noticed is a more advanced stage of this state, or is to be viewed as a separate organic affection. Synovial membrane is liable to a peculiar form of degenera- tion, in which the membrane becomes thick, soft, and villous, not unlike a piece of coarse velvet. The change is evidently in the organization of the membrane, which is entirely destroyed. The surface is red or brown, and no trace of the original structure is left. This is one of the most unmanageable forms of diseased joint. It may take place in any joint, but is most common in the knee- joint, the hip-joint, and the elbow-joint. It appears to be attended with chronic inflammation of the sy- novial membrane, and may probably be the effect of a peculiar form of that process. It seems, nevertheless, by its characters and tendency, to arrange itself rather with the class of organic changes. Its approach is generally slow but steady, and it is attended with deep-seated pain in the joint, aggravated by motion. It gives rise to general swelling, often with the effusion of some fluid within the synovial cavity. The cellular tissue outside the capsule also be- comes diseased, swelling, and being sometimes affected by second- ary inflammation and the formation of abscesses. This disease takes place principally in those reputed of strumous habit; and its presence causes hectic fever, wasting, and debility. § 3. Thecal Inflammation.—In the synovial sheaths of tendons, inflammation produces effects not dissimilar. The most marked in- stance of this process is observed in synovial or thecal whitloe, ■pa- ronychia thecalis, in which inflammation of the synovial membrane, 1 have elsewhere shown, from the anatomical peculiarities of these sacs, not only causes death of the contained tendon, but, by passing to the periosteum, may induce caries of the phalanges.* In other parts of the body, these sheaths are not very liable to inflame, un- less in consequence of external injury. From this cause I have more than once witnessed severe inflammation terminating in effu- sion of purulent fluid in the synovial sheath, between the tendon of the glutceus maximus and the head of the trochanter. After in- cision, however, it terminated favourably, without appearing to im- pair the motions of the tendon. * Observations, Pathological and Practical, on Whitloe. By David Craigie, M. D. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xxix. p. 255. Edinburgh, 1828.