1010 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. It is not improbable that they consist partly of inflamed and con- densed cellular, that is, filamentous tissue, especially that investing the lobules, and partly of obliterated blood-vessels. The inner surface of a cavity, chiefly or altogether emptied, though irregular, rugged, and hollowed into several subordinate depressions and eminences, presents, nevertheless, a smooth firm surface, which is observed to be owing to the presence of a newly formed membrane. When, indeed, the fluid and granular matter is removed by washing it repeatedly in water, it appears, though hard and somewhat cartilaginous, to be almost like an imperfect mucous membrane, or rather the villous surface of a fistula or jinus. This Laennec regards as a false membrane, or newly formed product; and certainly it presents several of the characters of false or morbid mucous membrane. Thus it is thin, smooth, whitish, or gray, semitransparent, soft, friable, and easily removable by the scalpel. In some instances subjacent to this thin semitransparent membrane, are one, or portions of one a little firmer, rather more opaque, and more closely adherent to the walls of the cavity. When the texture surrounding the cavity, and forming its walls, is examined, it is found to be solid, firm, incompressible, almost cartilaginous, entirely void of elasticity, more or less dark-red or brown, and serous fluid oozing abundantly from the divided sur- faces. The bronchial tubes passing through such parts, and open- ing into the cavity or cavities, are often enlarged, and their mem- brane is invariably of a deep or bright-red colour, rough and villous, and lined with viscid mucus. In general these bronchial tubes are cut transversely across, or truncated at the point of junction with the cavity. In some rare cases, one bronchial tube is found passing through a cavity or a vomica, showing that it has escaped, or resisted the destroying process which commonly cuts it through. This fact, noticed by Schroeder, I have also seen. But in general such bronchial tubes are at length destroyed, if the life of the patient be sufficiently prolonged. Neither Laennec nor Louis ap- pear to have met with bronchial tubes within cavities; and perhaps the occurrence is rare. The solidity and firmness of the surrounding texture is caused by two circumstances; the first, the presence of tubercular deposi- tion in the lungs; and the second, inflammatory induration. The tubercular deposit appears in the form of hard masses, which are amorphous or void of regular shape, and variable in size. When divided, these masses are solid, firm, sometimes almost car-