GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 314 in France, and by Dr Duncan Junior, in the stage of suppuration,* has led to the recent revival of an opinion originally proposed hy Galen, and reproduced in modern times byFernel, Willis, and Hoff- mann,—that tetanus depends on a morbid state of the spinal chord or its membranous coverings. This inference, nevertheless, is not in its present state susceptible of that degree of accuracy which en- titles it to a place among the established principles of pathology. Though in some instances capillary injection of the chord, and the origins of the spinal nerves is attended with tonic spasms of the muscular system, in a great number, perhaps a larger proportion, no contractions of this kind take place, notwithstanding every mor- bid change from vascular injection to pulpy destruction or suppu- ration. Tetanic spasms, Ollivier infers, are connected with the advanced and intense forms of the disease;, hut the cases collected, not only by this author himself, but by Pinel, Velpeau, and Aber- crombie, show, that in some of the most aggravated forms of the disease no spasms had taken place till the last few hours of exis- tence. In short, the circumstances under which tonic spasms occur in connection with vascular injection and inflammation of the chord, have not yet been distinctly indicated. From the cases observed by Reid, Duchatelet, and Martinet, Jones, Ollivier, and Duncan Junior, tetanic spasms appear to be more frequently connected with injection of the membranes than of the substance of the chord. The variation of effects according to the region of the chord affected may be distinguished into three heads;—as the morbid process affects the longitudinal extent, the transverse breadth, or the antero-posterior thickness of the chord. a. When it is seated in the upper or cranial portion of the chord, (medulla oblongata,) the effects are more or less disorder of the senses, locked-jaw, gnashing of the teeth, impaired articulation and deglutition, respiration oppressed, disordered, and panting, palsy, and death by asphyxia. When it is seated in the cervical portion it gives rise to tetanic rigidity, convulsion, or palsy of the muscles ot the neck, more or less palsy of the intercostals, and muscles of the trunk and extre- mities in general, paralytic weakness of the diaphragm, and even- tually, as this advances, death by suspension of the mechanical agents of respiration. * Contributions to Morbid Anatomy, Case 5th. Medical and Surgical Journal, VoL XVII. p. 332.