660 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. three heads,—the spreading sero-mucous or puriform, the limited or suppurative, and the albuminous. Of the spreading inflammation there are two varieties, one with transparent mucous discharge, the other with opaque or white mu- cous discharge. In the first case, in which a transparent, gelatinous, imperfectly coagulable fluid issues from the vagina, the uterine mucous mem- brane is in a state of chronic congestion, and the organ itself becomes slightly enlarged. This discharge, which issues from the mucous surface of the womb, and, according to Leake, from the same vessels which are subservient to menstruation, constitutes a large propor- tion of the cases regarded as fluor albus. It takes place as a symp- tom of prolapse of the womb, bladder, or vagina, of inversion of the womb, of cancer, polypus, and even warty growths of the or- gan.* In the second form, though the disease may affect the mucous surface in general, its more particular seat is the cervix of the womb and its mucous glands. It was observed originally by Morgagni,f and afterwards by Leake, that in certain forms of fluor albus in- cident to young females of 8 or 10 years old, the discharge pro- ceeds from the mucous glands of the womb. By observing pain and tenderness uniformly in this part, Mr C. M. Clarke confirms the accuracy of this observation. It causes to issue from the va- gina an opaque perfectly white fluid, resembling a mixture of starch and water made in the cold, or thin cream, easily washed from the finger, and diffusible in water, which it renders turbid, sometimes tenacious, like melted glue. 3. When the mucous membrane of the womb or vagina is in- flamed, it may secrete puriform or purulent fluid, which is not un- frequently retained within the cavity of the organ. Collections of purulent matter in the former have been recorded by Lieutaud,f Portal,§ Dr Clarke,|| and others. Of these collections, the pecu- liarity is that they are not discharged as they are formed, a cir- cumstance which is in general to be ascribed to obstruction of the uterine orifice by lymph. This, it is to be remarked, is accidental, * Observations on those Diseases of Females which are attended by Dischaiges, &c. &c., by Charles Mansfield Clarke. Part i. Lond. 1814, and Part ii. Load. 1821. + Epist. xlvii. 14, 15, 18. t Hist. Anatom. Med. § Anatomie Medicale, Tom. v. p. 519. || Transactions of a Society, Vol. iii. p. 560.