716 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. by Hulme,* Leake,f Denman,} Mr John Burns,§ Gordon,|| Arm- strong,H and Hey.** Gordon and Denman mention cases in which matter was discharged by the urethra with favourable issue. The fluid of ascites in females has a peculiar exit, by which not unfre- quently it escapes, the Fallopian tubes. § 3. Puerperal Peritonitis.—That in the disease termed puerperal fever, in a certain proportion of cases, peritoneal inflammation of one or other of the forms above-mentioned takes place, is established by the observation of the best authors, and by daily experience. In every case in which the symptoms of the disease appear during life, we find in the peritonaeum more or fewer of the marks of the in- flammatory process above described. This variety of peritoneal in- flammation, nevertheless, is peculiar in commencing almost invari- ably in some part of the peritonaeum investing the organs of repro- duction. Thus the first, the most abundant, and the most invari- able traces of inflammatory action, are found either in the uterine, or the ovarian peritonaeum, or in that of the Fallopian tubes, espe- cially at their fimbriated extremities, and within these tubes, or all three at once. The most usual appearances which I have remarked in a large proportion of cases, are opaque, dull, and lustreless aspect of the uterine and ovarian peritonaeum ; blood-spots or vascular injection, especially of the ovarian peritonaeum ; albuminous exudation of the uterine and ovarian peritonaeum often agglutinating the latter to that of the oviferous tubes; and sero-purulent or purulent fluid, with albuminous shreds, in the hypogastric, iliac, and occasionally the luinbar fossce, and purulent or albuminous exudation between the bladder and uterus, and the uterus and rectum. In a certain proportion of cases, in which the disease is not at- tended by well-marked symptoms, yet destroys the patient rapidly and certainly, the appearances are not very distinctly presented. The uterine peritonaeum is covered with a sort of unctuous looking sero-albuminous fluid, or rather mere coating, which is liable to be entirely overlooked by hasty observers. Yet it is seen all over the anterior and posterior surface of the womb, and along the sides of that organ, as a semifluid glutinous coating. In certain cases the Fallopian tubes and ovaries are covered by the same coating; and * On the Puerperal Fever. f On Child-betl Fever. + Introduction, &e. Fever. § Elements, <Scc- || Treatise on the Epidemic Puerperal Fever, 5th and 6th Cases. *j Facts and Observations, p. 158. ** On Puerperal Fever.