BRAIN. 337 consisting internally of dark-red (atro-rubens) hard granular substance, like half-rotten sandy pear, enclosed all round in gray, soft, inodorous puriform matter, (ramollisse- merit.) Mr Henry Earle, in Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. iii. p. 5.9. 1812.—A boy, 2 years and 9 months old. Dilated pupil ; palsy of lower extremities and sphincters, followed by convulsions of the face, and palsy of the upper extremities and trunk; death by paralytic asphyxia. In the anterior lobe of the right hemisphere a large dusky red tumour, rather tough. In the posterior lobe of the same hemisphere, and in that of the left, a tumour each. In the cerebral substance, on a level with the me- solobe, four more tumours ; the largest the size of an orange, the smallest not less than a chestnut. They were very firm, of a dusky red colour, and with streaks of white in- terposed. Dr Powell, in Medical Transactions, Vol. v. Case xi. p. 241.—-A man of 30, with excruciating pain of the head more or less constant, followed by impaired vision, di- lated pupil, and at length an apoplectic attack, which in two days terminated life. From the inferior part of the anterior lobe of the left hemisphere projected a firm mass, of the size of a large walnut, and when cut into resembling a large absorbent gland. It was surrounded by softened cerebral substance, which was of a light brown colour, and so pulpy as to give the sensation of a semifluid. y. Tubercular Deposition. ( Tyroma.)—Under the head of tu- bercles and scrofulous growths of the brain, various changes, some not very similar, have been described. Though the terms tubercle and scrofula have been perhaps applied too vaguely, these differ- ences, however, if well examined, will be found to consist more in the external form in which the tubercular matter is deposited, than in any essential change in its intimate characters. The term tu- bercular deposition, therefore, I adopt for the purpose of designating matter of a white or pale-yellow colour, firm, like soft cheese, but less tough, sometimes granular and friable, and consisting chiefly of a large proportion of albuminous matter. The substance thus defined may be deposited in various forms. In the brain these seem referable chiefly to two;—1. one, two, or more homogeneous individual masses of considerable size; and 2. several, sometimes many, minute spherical or spheroidal bodies separate from each other. a. One or two homogeneous masses of considerable size. Man- getus is among the first who notices near the corpora quadrigemina a body like a sebaceous gland, hard and friable, which there is rea- son to believe was one solitary tubercular mass. The two similar which he found in the same brain between the convolutions, if not belonging to the membranes, were examples of the same growth in the convoluted substance. I have already mentioned under another head the case of Huber, which is probably an example of the same nature. The second one of Merat, if really tubercular, is also an instance of this form Y