595 TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. ing ordinary expiration, be easily expelled. The effect is, that the bronchial membrane and pulmonary vesicles are excited by theii physiological properties to frequently repeated expiratory effoits, and, as these are inadequate to expel the air from the lungs, the compression of the expiratory muscles necessarily, by forcing the portion of lung into smaller compass, compresses the air already contained in the vesicles beyond the constricted point. The air thus confined, after many repeated expiratory efforts, forces its way, by its own elasticity, through the delicate mucous membrane of the vesicles into the pulmonic filamentous tissue, and, when once there, it continues to spread rapidly in proportion to the obstruc- tion in the bronchial tubes, and the difficulty of producing efficient expiration. It is then that the air contained in these vesicles ren- ders the chest, when struck, preternaturally resonant; while the extreme difficulty of breathing, with the dry sonorous rhonchus or sibilism, indicate the laborious struggle which is made in the tubes, contracted by swelling, and obstructed, as they are, by adherent mucus,—to inspire and to expire in an efficient manner. In this manner, therefore, bronchial inflammation, either by con- tinuance or repeated attacks, tends to produce emphysema and its usual phenomena; and there are few cases of emphysematous dis- tension of the pulmonic filamentous tissue which may not be traced to this cause. In the young, when labouring under hooping-cough, in the aged, after frequently repeated attacks of catarrh, and in the middle-aged after the continuance of bronchial inflammation, in a 1 subacute or chronic state, emphysema is with equal certainty, and in equal perfection, produced. In the first case, indeed, as the bronchial symptoms subside, the tubes become more pervious, and expiration becomes so much freer and less interrupted, that the air ceases to be urged through the vesicular membrane, and that which had been already impelled into the pulmonic filamentous tissue is at length absorbed. But in the two latter instances, in which the thickening of the membrane either abates little, or continues un- changed, the emphysematous distension continues to increase, until it has attained an extent almost incredible to those unaccustomed to examine cases of chronic bronchial disease. Emphysema, however, is not the only effect of this state of the bronchial tubes. The impracticability of inspiring and expiring completely in such a state of the lungs, which implies the absence of the most essential condition of respiration, viz. the frequent and