GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 224 go an ulterior stage of softening, and apparently almost ulcerative sloughing. Thus we find them soften and suppurate in the’neck and groin ; and after a tedious process of suppuration subside and dis- appear, leaving had and indelible scars with much irregular con- traction of the skin. In the bronchial glands, when tyromatous, I have seen them in like manner softened and converted into a sort of cream-like sero-purulent matter ; and others presenting deep ragged ulcerated cavities. Lastly, in the mesentery, where they are often allowed to pass through all their stages before the death of the pa- tient, it is not uncommon to find the glands in different stages of softening. One or two are firm and consistent; others present softening, taking place at different points ; others present portions of cream-like or soft caseous purulent matter; and others are re- presented by bags of puriform atheromatous semifluid substance, which is the tyromatous matter dissolved or liquefied, contained within the capsule or tunic of the gland, the only persistent por- tion of the whole structure. The tubercular disorganization is represented by Laennec, Dupuy, and others, as exceedingly frequent in lymphatic glands. By some authors these bodies are regarded as constituting the ana- tomical character of the strumous or scrofulous gland. In many instances of scrofulous enlargement and induration, the glands are indeed found to be occupied with minute bodies, somewhat firm, which undergo a slow liquefaction or mollescence. But it is per- haps too limited a view to restrict to this only the characters of scrofula. In some instances these tubercles appear to consist of the original cells of the gland, filled with albuminous or albumino- calcareous matter. 6. Ossification, Calcareous Deposition. The lymphatic glands are liable to become ossified, or to be penetrated with deposition of calcareous matter. The diseased action commences at one or more points, and is progressively extended, till the gland is converted into a bony mass.* This change was observed by Cruikshank in the tracheo-bronchial glands, which he represents as in that state producing ulceration through the trachea, and being coughed up as osseous concretions.-}- Baillie, adopting the same view, regards the calcareous deposition as more common in these bodies than in any other of the same tcxture.J Lastly, Rayer has observed this * A Practical Essay on the Diseases of the Vessels and Glands of the Absorbent System, &c. By William Goodlad, Surgeon, &c. p. 74. London. 1814. + Anatomy, &c. p. 129. $ Morbid Anatomy.