BEATS. SOS Baglivi* and Lancisif epidemic apoplexy (apoplexia febricosa, carus febricosus), and which Morgagni + and Casimir Medicus§ represent as periodical and intermitting. When it is known that the apo- plectic symptoms are regulated by. the motions of the ague, which alone is epidemic, or rather endemial, the nature of the periodical and epidemic apoplexy is easily understood. These soporose agues may be sporadic or general; prevail mostly in the summer or autumnal months in warm countries; and after a few paroxysms, sometimes the second or third, are generally fatal. Their mortality is so uniform that they have been named death-fe- vers (Todten-fieber) in Germany and Hungary, where they used to be very common. They were observed at Rhodes by Praxago- ras, the master of Herophilus; afterwards at London in 1678 by Sydenham; at Rome and in various parts of Italy by Baglivi in 1694 and 1695, and by Lancisi the same year, and at Bagnareain 1707; at Hanover by Werlhof; and by Cleghorn in Minorca. The extravasations into the cavities of the brain, observed by Jackson in yellowfever, belong to the head of meningeal hemorrhage. In continued fevers of this and other countries, apoplectic death is so common, that I need only refer to the works of Stoll, Mills, Bateman, Cheyne, Barker, and Harty. It appears to be at once cerebral and meningeal. In purpura and sea-scurvy death not unfrequently takes plaee from hemorrhage within the brain, or on its surfaces. The latter' is most common, and as such belongs to the head of meningeal he- morrhage. (3. Apoplexia Traumatica. Traumatic Apoplexy.. Apoplexy from violence. Hemorrhage from the Cerebral Membranes. Traumatic Apoplexy. Meningeal apoplexy of Serres. The effects of injury on the skull, especially in the form of repeated blows, are very peculiar. One blow, of course, or a fall, in which the skull lights on a stone or other hard body, may, as it often does, fracture the skull, and prove fatal either by the concussion, or by blood effused afterwards. But there is another class of cases in which a series of blows has been in- flicted on the head, proving fatal, yet without fracturing the skull. In the class of cases, also, to which I now refer, the patient falls into a * G. Baglivi Dissertatio, 8vo. De Observationibua, &c. Appendix do Apoplexiia tere epidemic* proximo elapso biennio in Urbe et per Italian! Observatis. Op. Om. Antwerpia:, 1715, p. 683. + De Noxiis Paludum Effluvia,. * Epist. iii. iv. and v. ?! Geschichte Penode-haltender Krankheiten. Erstes Buch ; Erstes Capitel, § jj. Peode-haltender Schlagfluss, p. 5. Frankfurt and Leipzig, 17S4. V