151 SYSTEM OF CAPILLARY VESSELS, &C. eeption of pulmonary tubercles, in every one ot the instances which he has adduced the formation of fluid matter, is invariably pi eceded by inflammation, that is, by morbid enlargement of the capillaries of the affected texture. In the case of lymphatic glands suppurating, these bodies inva- riably enlarge previously, and are always the seat ot dull heavy pain. This enlargement depends either on the vessels undergoing a slow process of dilatation and distension, or on the formation ot tubercles in the substance of the gland. The affections of the knee-joint, hip-joint, and other articulations, have been satisfactorily traced to inflammation either of the synovial apparatus, or of the cartilages, or of both, passing on the one hand to the capsule, and on the other to the bones. During life they are painful, generally swelled or enlarged, and invariably hotter than natural. Dissection shows these parts to be more or less, sometimes highly, vascular. The collections denominated lumbar abscess depend either on disease of the vertebrae, generally of an inflammatory nature, or on slow inflammation of the lumbar cellular tissue and lymphatic glands. The circumstance in which Mr Hunter trusted, in considering these collections to be independent of inflammation, was the absence of pain as the first symptom. In this, however, I believe that accu- rate observer was mistaken. In every one of the cases of disease to which he refers as examples, more or less pain is invariably felt in the course, if not from the first date of the complaints. Two circumstances, indeed, distinguish this sort of pain. It is neither severe nor uninterrupted, and may be so moderate as not to attract the attention of the patient, or form a serious subject of complaint. But even admitting the statement of Mr Hunter, that the sensation of pain is not the first, it is doubtless too limited a view of the in- flammatory process to imagine, that this can never exist unless iwhen the sensation of pain is the first symptom. In some of the textures, especially mucous membrane, we know that inflammation may be established for some time without much attendant pain. In others, especially the serous membranes, inflammation approaches so slowly and imperceptibly, that both lymph and purulent matter may be effused before the existence of the disease is suspected. I or these and similar reasons it has become requisite to admit the existence of a slow insidious form of inflammation termed chronic,