913 ENKEPIIALOMA OF THE LIVER. These two forms of enkephaloma appear to correspond with the Tuber a Circumscripta first well described by Dr Farre. Though I describe these two forms of enkephaloid disease as appearing usually in small masses of definite size, yet it does not follow that they may not be larger. Two or more masses may be growing, and extending, may coalesce, and thus form, instead of twenty or thirty small tuberosities, five or six large irregular-shaped masses. In short, I have strong reason to believe that neither colour nor size are essential and invariable characters; and that the same structure may appear sometimes in small nodules} some- times in large masses, and that its colour may vary from tallow- white to light fawn. A third form which the disease assumes is the following. Large irregularly rounded masses, generally of a whitish colour, are formed in the substance of the liver, projecting from its surface, and rendering that surface irregular and firm. These masses vary in volume from the bulk of a middle-sized potato to that of a large orange. They are never exactly spherical, but only irregularly rounded, oblong, or quite incapable of being referred to any ordi- nary known figure. These masses are so large as not only to alter very much the shape of the liver, but to encroach extremely on the original struc- ture of the organ. When the liver is divided, the sections show that the morbid deposition has extended throughout the whole gland. These masses are whitish, or whitish gray in colour, firm, of a con- sistence between tallow and cheese; and the section has some re- semblance to that of the unboiled potato or yam. The section is not quite so homogeneous and uniform as that of the small tube- rosities, and it presents more or fewer minute cavities containing a sero-gelatinous liquid which readily oozes from them. Traces of organic arrangement cannot be distinctly recognized; yet, in some instances, one or two large varicose-like vessels may be seen passing through the mass. In some instances the appearance of radiating fibres, like that of zeolite, may be seen as in the small- sized tuberosities. But this is less frequent than in the latter. The radiating appearance also is greatly less regular, and often ap- pears in the form of irregular lines or fibres. The shape and outline of these masses is irregularly round, or globular, or spheroidal, and often so irregular that it is impossible to compare them to any known figure. In some instances two or three masses appear to have coalesced into one continuous mass, 3 M