149 SYSTEM OF CAPILLARY VESSELS, &C. though adopted by Haller,* is too ridiculous to merit the slightest attention. It is sufficient to remark, that purulent matter is pre- pared by many other tissues which contain no adipose matter ; for instance the mucous and serous membranes, and several of the glandular organs, internal and external. The fallacy of the opi- nion of Cullen, which was derived from the experiments of Pringle and of Gaber, has been already noticed. The view of blunter is, on the whole, more correct. In inflam- mation of the filamentous tissue, where the parts, or more accu- rately, the vessels lose the power of resolution, they begin to “ alter their mode of action, and continue changing till they gradually form themselves to that state which fits them” to prepare purulent matter. This applies, however, only to the case in which lymph is exuded and purulent matter is secreted, simultaneously or succes- sively, or, in other words, to the transition from the adhesive to the suppurative stage. In certain circumstances this transition does not take place, and purulent fluid may be secreted without the pre- vious effusion of coagulable lymph. The first action of the vessels is then to pour forth serous fluid, and the next is the secretion of purulent matter in a more or less perfect form. This is well ex- emplified in diffuse inflammation of the filamentous tissue. No doubt can be entertained, from the experiments of Brug- mann, f Hunter, 1 and Home, § and from the daily phenomena of purulent collections, that suppuration is a process analogous to, if not the same as secretion. || This is demonstrated in the case of mucous and serous mem- branes, in which purulent matter is formed without breach of sur- face, and in which, therefore, its formation must be ascribed to a new action of the vessels. It does not, however, follow from this that these vessels perform, as Hunter imagined, the office of a gland. This notion appears to be adopted merely to render the conception of suppuration more distinct than it would be if simply ascribed to the action of vessels. Suppuration is the direct and exclusive, or the concurrent effect of inflammation. It is generally the direct effect in inflammation of the mucous membranes, often in that of the serous membranes, * Elementa, Lib. i. sect. 4. f De Puogenia. 8vo. Groningte, 1781. X Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, &C. Chap. v. § On the Properties of Pus. 4to. London, 1788. il “ This new structure or disposition of vessels 1 shall call glandular, and the effect or pus a secretion.” Chap. v.