GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 566 anatomical fact which furnishes the solution of some curious con- genital malformations, and of various morbid processes, which af- fect simultaneously, successively, or occasionally, both orders of membranes. The morbid states of the mucous membranes are numerous and important, and constitute a large proportion of the diseases which daily come under the notice of the physician. Generally speaking, these morbid states may be referred to the following heads, inflam- mation and its effects, sero-albuminous effusion, suppuration and ulceration, hemorrhage, induration and thickening producing con- traction or stricture, new growths, and malformation. I. The inflammatory process in this tissue gives rise to a con- siderable number of diseases which long usage has distinguished according to the region, the mucous membrane of which is diseased. These affections, which agree in general characters, and vary only in certain points depending on situation and local peculiarity, may be conveniently arranged according as they take place; A. in the cephalic or facial mucous membrane; B. in the tracheo-bronchial mucous membrane; C. in the gastro-enteric membrane; and D. in the genito-urinary mucous membrane. characters of inflammation are much the same. The process takes place under two varieties, the spreading or diffuse, which extends over the surface of the membrane; and the punctuate or circum- scribed, which affects many points at the same time. The mem- Section II. Ophthalmia. Epiphora. Coryza. Tympania. Ozaena. Otorrhcea. Gasteria. Enteria. Colonia. Ureteria. Cystidia. Urethria. Metria. Laryngia. Tracheitis. Bronchia. Cynanche laryngaea. Croup ; catarrh. Bronchitis ; catarrh. Inflammation of oesophagus. Dyspeptic symptoms. Diarrhoea Dysenteria. Genito- Ureter, Catarrhus vesica*. Gonorrhoea, Blennorrhagia. Leucorrhcea, &c. D. Urinary division. tt ' ) JJiacmer, vyouuia. Urinary < Urethra> Urethria. division. ^ Womb an(j vagina, Metria. In these several divisions of the mucous surfaces the anatomical otl lUCUj yy invn J I , 1 brane becomes red, injected, traversed by minute red points ana