INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—CiECAL DISEASE. 63o Although I began the account of this affection by representing it to originate in previous disease of the ccecnm and vermiform ap- pendage, yet there occur cases in which the latter circumstance is not always manifest. If the first movements of diseased action have taken place in the caecum, it has been externally; and hence they have advanced to affect, the bowel secondarily. This mode of pro- cedure may best be illustrated by the following case. A young female, in the rank and occupation of a servant, was sent from Leith to the Royal Infirmary with symptoms believed to indicate the presence of continued fever. The skin was hot, and though not dry, was imperfectly transpiring; the tongue was co- vered with a whitish gray pasty fur; there was some thirst; the expression of the countenance was languid and feeble, though the face was flushed ; the pulse was between 86 and 90, rising to 100 ; and the strength was impaired. The abdomen was a little distend- ed and slightly painful; yet pressure was borne tolerably well. The sound emitted was clear and natural. But in the right iliac region, where some fulness was manifest, the sound emitted was dull; and considerable pain was felt on pressing or handling this region. This painful sensation also extended backwards to the loins; but was more complained of on the right than on the left side. In the right iliac region also, but most towards the side of the region and its posterior aspect, there was recognized a more firm and resisting yet compressible and doughy state of the parts than natural. Pain was aggravated by coughing. !Some blood was drawn from the arm; twelve leeches were ap- plied over the right iliac region ; and laxative medicine was given. Next day the patient said she felt relieved and more easy. But the state of parts in the right iliac region was not improved ; the ab- domen was rather more distended, with some tympanitic resonance; the pulse was above 100, not full but hard; the skin was dry; the urine scanty and sedimentous; and the bowels had been moved scantily and imperfectly : the fur on the tongue was much as before. Twelve leeches were ordered on the right iliac region, to be fol- lowed by warm fomentations and a poultice; and an enema was directed to be administered. Next, morning the patient became suddenly very feeble and died. Inspection disclosed the following appearances. A portion of bowel between 3| and 4 feet long, which turned out to be the lower part of the ileum, was greatly distended chiefly