GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 382 cal palsy, or by a train of symptoms similar to nerve-ache. (Neu- ralgia,.) Dr Denmark saw a contused wound of the radial nerve produce neuralgic symptoms requiring amputation.* Charles Bell saw the same result succeed contusion without wound in the popliteal nerve, and the inflammation occasioned by the application of quicksilver to the same nerve.f Mr Wardrope saw neuralgic symptoms succeed a puncture of the finger, in which he thinks a nerve was injured and in another instance similar effects from wound of the thumb, in which a branch of the radial nerve close to the digital artery was punctured.§ In venesection it sometimes happens when the cutane- our nerves are pierced, that numbness and tetanic stiffness, with spasmodic twitches, are felt in the arm or fore-arm for some time after. These symptoms it is justifiable to ascribe to chronic inflam- mation, with thickening and induration of thenerve.|| (Denmark.) This thickening depends partly on extreme and undue distension of the neurilematic vessels, partly on exudation of lymph, which proceeds from the same source. In the remarkable case described by Mr Pearson, in which he ascribes severe and complicated neuralgic and paralytic symptoms to ‘‘a morbid condition of the nerves distributed to the extremity of the thumb,this morbid condition was probably chronic inflam- mation of some part of their neurilematic covering. Patients who have undergone amputation sometimes complain of acute pain in a single point of the stump, liable to aggravation when touched, and spreading up the limb in the course of the nerves. It is usual to ascribe such complaints to implication of the nerve in the cicatrix; but it is more likely that a minute branch has been included in the ligature of some of the vessels. In such circum- stances it is manifest that a cause is given for the most severe and obstinate form of neurilematic inflammation. Lastly, I may notice, that to the same head is to be referred a painful gnawing sensation of contraction ascending up the arm from the finger, which I have * Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. IV. p. 48. London, 1813. + Surgical Observations, &c. By Charles Bell. London, 1816, p. 440. Case of Baron Driesen. $ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Lond. Vol. VIII. p. 246. § Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. XII. p. 205. || “ The nerve was found thickened to twice its natural diameter, and contracted. Transact. Vol. IV. p. 51. ^ . ; ^ Account of Remarkable Symptoms, &c. By John Pearson, Esq. &c. e ico Chirurg. Trans. Vol. VIII. p. 252.