932 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. similar disorganizing process in the kidney ; and though this may- take place in the spontaneous or idiopathic form of the disorder, it is much more likely to ensue in cases in which the disease is in- duced by the mechanical irritation of an urinary concretion. It is requisite here, therefore, to specify the circumstances under which suppuration is most likely to take place, and the usual forms under which it appears. § 2. Though suppuration of the kidney may take place either in its cortical or secreting part, or in its tubular or excreting portion, yet, so far as the evidence of morbid anatomy goes, the most usual mode in which suppuration, or rather the secretion of purulent matter takes place, is the following. 1. An attack of renal inflammation may, if it affect mostly the tubular part of the kidney and the infundibula, terminate in the secretion of puriform mucus, plastic lymph and blood from the calycine membrane, that is the delicate mucous surface of these cavities, and the papilla, and from the mucous surface of the pelvis; and these morbid secretions may either escape through the ureter into the bladder, and be expelled, or they may remain and produce obstruction of the pelvis, secondary inflammation, and distension of the pelvis and infundibula. In the former case, the matter escapes by the ureters into the bladder, partially or entirely, and is discharged in the form of purulent matter, mixed with urine or purulent urine {pyuria); but it is liable again to accumulate, unless the in- flammatory action is totally subdued. If it do accumulate, it then becomes, in all respects, similar to the latter case, and a peculiar state of the kidney is presented, (Nephrotasia ; Ne- phropyema). The matter retained within the pelvis and infun- dibula,, or at least not permitted to escape by the ureter, either mixed with urine, or by itself, gradually accumulates and increases in quantity, and causes more or less distension of the pelvis and infundibula. If this be moderate, and if death take place, the kidney, when divided, presents as many cavities containing puru- lent matter as there are infundibula; and while the substance of the kidney is rendered much thinner than usual, these cavities are sometimes supposed to be purulent cysts into which the kidney has been converted. This is the true explanation of such cases as that mentioned by Cheston, who states that in a boy of seven, “ the substance of the kidneys was so dissolved into matter, that they ap-