922 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. evacuation of a gall-stone as large as a pullet’s egg; and another from a man as big as a nutmeg; both followed with a lask (loose- ness) discharging prodigious quantities of choler. * John Baptist Bianchi relates the case of a lady of rank who had been subject to periodical jaundice from twelve to fifteen days at a time ; and from whom a gall-stone larger than a walnut was brought away by the operation of a strong purge.f Dr James Johnstone records a case in which a corpulent old lady, after suffering for two days severe pain in the epigastric re- gion with vomiting, voided an oblong pyriform biliary concretion, about one inch and a quarter long, and fully one inch in diameter, and weighing 126 grains. She had no jaundice, but seven hours of most excruciating pain.ij: Lavernet relates a case in which a large biliary concretion weighing three drachms was voided. Petit mentions the case of a lady who had jaundice with colicky pains. After the use of the warm-bath three times, she discharged with much blood a gall-stone, rough like the skin of the shark, weighing four drachms and two scruples, and measuring two inches and a half long, one inch and a half in diameter, and three inches and a half in circumference. || Walter mentions shortly the case of a female of about 70 years who voided two gall-stones, weighing together two drachms two scruples ==160 grains. The largest was oblong spheroidal, a little more than one inch long, and a little less than one inch in tians- verse diameter.il M. Gosse records in a married lady during pregnancy the escape of two concretions of a burnt umber colour, which had been origi- nally one, at an interval of ten hours, weighing together about four drachms (3 gros,) and the first of which was 14 lines long and 23 in circumference. She suffered much previously from colic pains; but had no jaundice.** * Philosophical Experiments and Observations of the late Dr Robert Hooke, F. R. S. &c. published by William Derham, F. R. S. London, 1726, p. 79. f Historia Hepatica Joannis B. Bianchi, M. D. Tom. i. p. 189. Genevae, 1725. + An account of two extraordinary Cases of Gall-stones. By James Johnstone, M.' d. of Kidderminster. Phil. Trans, vol. 1. p. 543. London, 1758 ; and Medica Essays and Observations, &c. Evesham, 1795, 8vo, p. 200. § Journal do Mcdecine Continu6, vol. xv. p. 404. II Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, Tome i. p. 325. Pans, 1/74 and 1790 «H Henkel’s Neuen Medizinische und Chirurgischen Anmerkungcn. 1/G9. And VY al- ter Anatomisches Museum, T. 112, 213. Taf. 2. T , ** Observation d’un Calcul Biliare expulse par lcs selles ; par M. Gossc. Journal de Mcdecine ct Chirurgie, &c. T. xxxiv. p. 45. Paris, 1770.