SKIN. 527 of ascertaining. Though various facts seem to indicate something of this nature, too little is known to justify positive conclusions. a. The boil or bile (Die Beule; Furunculus; le Clou; il Ciccione;) may be adduced as an instance of acute inflammation of the corion confined to a certain spot. Pearson admits that its seat is the skin; but, by afterwards saying that it may occur in any part which abounds in cellular membrane, leaves the alternative either that skin contains this substance abundantly, or that boils may occur in many other tissues. Boyer, by placing its seat in the cellular tis- sue, confounds it with phlegmon. The opinion of Bichat differs from either, but partakes of both. This anatomist represents the conon to be penetrated by a great quantity of cellular tissue, which fills its areola, and is the exclusive and proper seat of the boil. The truth of this opinion depends on the idea attached to the term cellular tissue. If by this be meant the loose fatty matter with its intersecting threads, on which the inner surface of the corion rests t le opinion is erroneous; for this is the proper subcutaneous cel- lular tissue To this, doubtless, the inflammatory action of boil may descend; but the phenomena and termination of the disease siow that it consists at first of circumscribed inflammation of the tissue Stu Ce’ S00n bUt Sl!ghtly affeCtb» the subJacent cellular ssue. The circumstances which indicate the corion, or its follicles as the seat of furuncular inflammation are,—the defined knotty tn’ * *>. complaint begins, the’minute p«l,e to “Ch XT-rf ,Tf7t ,and “y suPPuration with formation 01 Sloughs, and the perforated appearance of the skin. In various instances the presence of boils seems tn rlmro 1 pecubar affection either of the sebaceous follicles, or of he piliT rous sacs. A sebaceous follicle becomes inflamed and if.ff f j by mortification. It then requires to be elected? , S,afifected and to accomplish the object, suppuration is excited alTround^ff' a frequent cause of cutaneous boil. The core as it is o 11 l i surgeons, is the mortified sebaceous follicle. ’ ed ’’y Of the same nature and tendenuv 1= pm or bulb. When this takes place iH, J “matlon of a hair-sac in the sac or bulb, or both Or dlSposed to cause death once smitten with death 1 Z it" 7™ W be a* and, to accomplish its ejectment ^ aCtS aS a foreign body; fluency, with w^h ^ ^ ^ familiar to many observers. 01Igmate round hairs, is 11 ‘S f',rtl'er be remarked’ that tha boil of the sebaceous fol-