GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1054 Excentric or aneurismal hypertrophy is, nevertheless, by far the most common lesion; and the extent to which the heart may be enlarged by it is very great. The circumference of the base of the heart may amount to from 12 to 16 inches ; its transverse dia- meter, 6 or 9 ; and the longitudinal diameter, from base to apex from 5 to 7 inches. The increase in weight is the most conspicuous change. The minimum weight of the adult heart is about 6 ounces 2 drachms; the average weight about 8 ounces. In the state of hypertrophy, however, the weight is increased to 12 or 13 ounces at least, and may be so great as 22, 26, or 28 ounces. The average of seven- teen cases recorded by Bouillaud amounts to 16 ounces. The thick- ness of the walls of the left ventricle varies from 7 to 14 lines. The thickness of those of the right ventricle varies from 3 to 5 lines. This lesion gives rise to, or is connected with, others very im- portant to be known. It is often associated with a bloody or hemor- rhagic consolidation of the lungs and haemoptysis; and, in a con- siderable proportion of cases, it gives rise to softening or hemor- rhage in the brain. Excentric hypertrophy is often associated with cartilaginous or calcareous degeneration of the semilunar aortic valves, and some- times with that of the mitral valve. Excentric hypertrophy is, in a large proportion of instances, the result of rheumatism affecting the heart, and giving rise to endo- carditis. This can in general be known by the fact, that the indi- vidual has suffered rheumatic pains in the wrists and ankles, or in the elbows and knees, previous to the appearance of the symptoms of hypertrophy. In some cases, hypertrophy, adhesion of the pe- ricardium to the heart, and valvular disease, are united in the same individual. § 8. Partial Aneurism, or Consecutive False Aneurism.— This consists in a portion of the muscular fibres of the heart giving way, so as to form in the muscular walls of the organ a cavity, sac, or pouch, communicating by an opening with the cavity of the chamber, in the walls of which the pouch has been formed. This change may take place in any part of the muscular sub- stance of the heart; but it is most usually seen in the left ventricle, near or towards the apex. In various affections of the heart, but especially in dilatation, with more or less disease of the aortic se- milunar valves, it is not uncommon to observe, formed near the apex of the left ventricle, small cavities or pouches, while the ruus-