SEROUS MEMBRANE.—ULCERATION. 707 in truth, new deposits on their free surface. A deposit of lymph which has become contracted and indurated, or even cartilaginous, a deposit of tubercular matter, and patches of cartilage are formed on the free surface of the membrane; and though they appear to render it thicker, yet are they adventitious and easy removable by dissection, after which the free surface of the membrane comes into view. § 7. The next effect of the inflammatory process in serous membranes is destruction of their tissue by ulceration. Though this may happen in the acute form of the disease, it is not common. But after it has subsisted for some time, one or more points of the mem- brane begin to be affected by the ulcerative process, which at once spreads superficially, and penetrates its substance. The manner in which this takes place is invariably by the inflammatory process affecting the subserous tissue, and causing their suppuration in a circumscribed point. The serous membrane being no longer sup- ported at this point, gives way sometimes in round irregular patches, sometimes in ragged linear fissures. This process is not equally common in all the serous membranes. It is most usual in the pleura, pulmonic and costal, and in the muscular peritonaeum. By some pathologists, and, if I do not misunderstand him, by Hunter, ulceration is ascribed to pressure exercised by purulent matter; and thus, indeed, this author explains the tendency which collections of matter betray to proceed towards the surface. The pressure of such agents, doubtless, operates as an irritating cause, and may therefore produce what Hunter terms ulcerative inflamma- tion. In several examples, however, ulceration may occur as a direct effect of the inflammatory process, without the formation of matter sufficient by pressure to cause destruction of the tissue ; and in such circumstances I have in general traced it to previous sup- puration of the subserous tissue, as already mentioned. In cases of empyema and chronic peritonitis, especially the puerperal form, in which this ulceration is not unfrequent, both causes may be in operation. But even in the interesting case of peritoneal inflam- mation given by Hunter to illustrate the nature of what he terms the relaxing process, it is impossible to doubt, that, before the mus- cular peritonaeum was detached in the shreds and fragments in which it was found on inspection, inflammation and suppuration of the subserous filamentous tissue had taken place.* In short, from * Treatise on the Blood, &c. Part ii. Chap. vi. Sect. vi. p. 4Gl. -Ho.