GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 626 while the intermediate points, at which it does not readily rise, form the hollows and depressions. This state of the ileal follicles may last for weeks, coming and going, or appearing and subsiding alternately. It may take place in consequence of improper food, but seems also to occur sponta- neously or at least without evident cause. It is common in infants fed by the hand or other unnatural modes; and is often induced at the period of weaning, if care be not taken to effect that change gradually. When it has been once commenced it is liable to recur. Follicular irritation and enlargement, if not proceeding to much thickening and to ulceration of the surface, may subside, and leave the membrane in a healthy state. Children who have it are liable to diarrhoea in fits, or are said to have irritable bowels; but as the follicles return to their natural condition, this symptom disappears. When it continues long or recurs frequently, and gives rise to frequent, habitual, or violent diarrhoea, the follicles are thickened; and on the apices of several of them small ulcers are formed. But even without ulceration it may prove fatal by the extent over which it is diffused, the over-action and irritation of the intestines, and the violence of the general symptoms, with its wasting effects on the function of nutrition. It is usually observed in cases thus termi- nating, that numerous invaginations have taken place in the bowel, each invagination being formed over the site of an enlarged aggre- gated patch. Infants and young children with this disorder are sometimes cutoff suddenly, most usually with symptoms of crowing inspiration ; and spasmodic contraction of the thumbs, fingers, and toes. In other cases symptoms of enteritis or peritonitis with ob- stinate constipation often take place; and then ulceration is found to have extended to the submucous cellular tissue and the perito- naeum. 2. Follicular inflammation may take place at a subsequent period, that is, at periods after infancy, and between the third and fifteenth year, or even at later periods. Though this disease may come on in various modes at the time of life now referred to, the most usual, at least between three and seven or eight years, is the following. The patient is unwell, languid, with hot skin, especially at night; the tongue a little furred; the pulse quicker than usual (90, 100, 110); and the appetite impaired, with thirst. Sleep is disturbed and unrefreshing ; the patient starts and is alarmed ; and awakes