364 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the proper nervous matter which occupies the cavity of the neurile- matic canals. Little is known concerning the nature or organiza- tion of this substance. It is whitish, somewhat soft, and pulpy; but whether it consists of aggregated globules, as was attempted to be established by Della Torre and Sir Everard Home, or of linear tracts disposed in a situation parallel to each other, as appears to be the result of the inquiries of Monro, Reil, and others, or of ca- pillary cylinders containing a transparent gelatinous fluid, as Fon- tana represents, seems quite uncertain. It has been presumed, rather than demonstrated, that it resembles cerebral substance. But this analogy, though admitted, would throw little light on the subject; for at present it is almost impossible to find two anatomi- cal observers who have the same views of the intimate nature of cerebral substance itself. Whatever be its intimate arrangement, it appears to be a secretion from the neurilematic vessels. (Reil.) The structure of the nervous chord may be demonstrated in the following manner. When a portion of nerve is placed in an alka- line solution, the whole, or nearly the whole, of the nervous mat- ter is softened and dissolved, or may be washed out of the neurile- matic canals, which are not affected by this agent, and the disposition of which may be then examined and demonstrated.* Aqueous maceration may likewise be advantageously employed to unfold this structure; for it separates and decomposes the cellular tissue by which the neurilematic canals are united, and subsequently occa- sions decomposition of the nervous substance, while it leaves, at least for some time, the neurilema not much affected. When, how- ever, the maceration is too long continued, it is separated and de- tached like other macerated textures. Lastly, If a large nerve be placed in diluted acid for the space of one or two weeks, the neurilema is gradually dissolved, and the nervous matter becomes so much indurated and consolidated that it may be separated from the contiguous chords in filaments with great facility.* In undergoing this change the portion of nerve becomes much shorter and considerably contracted,—is subjected, in short, to the process of crispation; so that unless a large nerve like the sciatic be employed for the experiment, it may be impossible * J. C. Reil de Structura Nervorum, cap. i. p. 3 and 5. -|. According to the experiments of Reil, nitrous acid diluted with water answers best. Muriatic acid, though equal or even superior in effecting solution of the neurilema, softens the nervous matter too much, and separates the component filaments too com- pletely.—De Structura, cap. iii. p. 1C.