469 RONE. some name of spina ventosa three forms of disease of the bones ; the first enlargement and expansion of the extremities of the long bones, the second caries or chronic strumous inflammation of the short irregular bones, and the third nekrosis, as it appears in the cylindrical bones. In 1746, there was read to the Royal Society by the late Claudius Amyand, Sergeant-Surgeon to the King, a paper containing observa- tions on spina ventosa, and giving in illustration two instances of ne- krosis, one in the os humeri of a man of 22, another in the same bone of a man of 26. Mr Amyand begins by observing, that “ what prac- titioners generally understand by the spina ventosa is a caries in the bone from the extravasation of some sharp juices within it relaxing the tone of the fibres, and swelling and increasing its bulk beyond the natural bounds.” He farther allows that in certain cases the cariosity is encrusted and covered with an exostosis, that is, with bony matter; that when the bone swells, the nutritious fluid is de- posited outside, and forms callus ; that in certain cases, in the first stage of the disease, purulent matter lodged within the substance or cavities of the bone, causes some exfoliation or detachment of it; and that, in the last stage of the disease, the bone is perforated with holes, tubulous cavities, and fistulous openings; and that it is highly probable that a suppurated phlegmon in the marrow was the ori- ginal cause of the spina ventosa in the two cases recorded. From these facts it appears that Mr Amyand describes as spina ventosa the disease now known by the name of nekrosis; that he rightly inferred that this disease, nekrosis, arises from inflammation of the medullary membrane of cylindrical bones; that he was aware that new bony matter was formed outside the old or original, but diseased bone; and that the original or diseased bone was ex- foliated and detached.* In 1751, the Treatise on the Diseases of Bones, by M. Du Ver- ney, appeared. Though this surgeon noticed various cases of ne- crosis, yet he does not mention spina ventosa. The editor, however, in his preface, mentions shortly that inflammation of the medulla produces pain, heat, throbbing, swelling, abscess, caries of a bad character, and even spina ventosa, if the cause be internal; and that the corruption of the medulla without external wound, or that which is produced by an internal cause, is called spina ventosa, in consequence of the corrosion and destruction of the bone attended * Some Observations on the Spina Ventosa; by the late Claudius Amyand, Esq. V■ R' Sergeant-Surgeon to his Majestv. Phil. Trans. 1 746, Vol. X LI V. p. I n l<n London, 1748.