SKIN. 547 instead of which are very long hairs. The anterior or abdominal surface of the insect is striated as well as its dorsal surface. This insect is not an acarus, as imagined by Linnaeus and othei entomologists. In consequence of the differential characters, it has been referred by Raspail to a separate genus under the name of Sarkoptes, or Flesh-roaster, (2ag£, caro ; Ovruu, torreo.} It has now been seen by so many observers, both in France and this country, that there is no chance that its existence can again be questioned. It works its way beneath the cuticle by making bur- rows or paths in the vascular layer of the skin. The nails, like the cuticle, may be diseased in consequence of a morbid state of the corial surface and vessels by which they are nourished. In one or two instances of strumous children, I have seen them fissured into several longitudinal portions, much thick- ened, and indurated like horn, and incurvated. In others of the fingers of the same individuals, they were small and imperfectly de- veloped ; and in some their place was supplied by a small portion of thick horny cuticle. Similar changes are sometimes induced by disease or by injury. Of the hairs, the most extraordinary morbid state is the Polish plait (plica Polonica;) so named from being endemial in Poland, Lithuania, Hungary, and Transylvania, from the source of the Vis- tula to the Carpathian mountains. It occurs also in Prussia, Rus- sia, Switzerland, and in some parts of the Low Countries. It is impossible to doubt that this abnormal condition of the hairs depends on disease taking place in their bulbs or nutritious sacs. This is proved by the state of the skin from which the diseased hair grows, and by the unctuous, viscid, and blood-coloured fluid which the hairs in this state contain. We nevertheless possess no very pre- cise information on the nature of this diseased state of the capillary bulbs; and in the absence of exact facts I abstain from offering conjectures. The piliparous sacs lose their energy under certain morbid states of the system ; for instance, fever, pulmonary consumption, and the constitutional symptoms of lues. The hairs then drop out; and if at this time the bulbs be examined, the sacs are found to contain, according to Bichat, at least in persons who have passed through fever, the rudiment of new hairs. The shedding of the hairs, which takes place in the decline of life, and the period of which varies re-