BRAIN. 243 the exposition of the inferior regions of the convoluted surface,—the base of the brain. We have seen the manner in which the convo- luted passes into the figurate surface, above and behind the middle band. At the inferior regions this transition is effected in a mode somewhat differentand the channel or means by which it is made, is the curvilinear hollow. To understand clearly the rela- tions by which this is established, the demonstrator should remove in small portions the membrane which covers the optic commissure and tracts, the pituitary peduncle, the pisiform eminences, and which binds together the adjoining convolutions, and especially those which are connected by it to the limbs of the brain.* When the convolutions are thus exposed, the furrows on each side of the hollow will be found to be very deep, and the eminences propor- tionally high from the more solid part of the encephalic organ ; and the hollow itself will appear almost like the furrow of a con- volution on a large scale. Its peculiarity indeed is, that the bot- tom of the hollow is not convoluted, but presents an extensive uni- form space of grayish cerebral matter, on each side of which, but especially behind, the convolutions are very large and distinct. This convoluted part begins insensibly at the outer or lateral edge of the hemisphere, where it is narrow ; becomes broader as it ad- vances forwards and inwards ; and about one inch from the mesial plane, is particularly distinct, broader, and more spacious than at any other part of its course. It here presents an infinity of holes or orifices of various size in the cerebral substance, not arranged in any regular order, but uni- formly found in this situation. Some of these orifices are suffi- ciently large to admit the point of a small silver probe; but the greater number are more minute, and do not exceed the calibre of a common-sized bristle. The space over which they extend is va- rious, and its figure cannot be accurately defined ; it is generally equivalent to the half of a square inch. In numerous dissections, I have found it uniformly at this part, and of this size, as nearly as it is possible to estimate, in measurement of objects so variable as those of the organs of the animal body. I have not been able to recognize any difference in the colour of this and other parts of the convoluted surface. I suspect, therefore, that Vicq-D’Azyr, * This process is best performed by the scissors and forceps, with the occasional use only of the scalpel, and with the aid of an assistant with delicate fingers and for- ceps.