MORBID STATE OF THE LUNGS GANGRENE. 993 is the result not of ordinary inflammation, but of a peculiar kind of inflammation, the tendency of which is to gangrene. Gangrene of the lungs takes place either as a part and conco- mitant of continued fever with typhoid symptoms and pestilential fevers in general, or it may occur, so far as it is possible to judge, as a primary species of inflammatory disorder of the lungs. a. In the first case, a person with the usual symptoms of aggra- vated and rather intense typhoid fever, and commonly with marks of imperfect general circulation and perverted and imperfect pul- monary circulation, as lividity of the face, nose, cheeks, lips, and extremities, coldness of the extremities, hiccup, and small pulse, presents obscure symptoms of disorder of the lungs, laborious and irregular respiration, sometimes hurried, sometimes slower than natural, slight cough, at first dry, afterwards moist with sputa, very viscid, glutinous, orange-coloured, streaked with blood, and vciy fetid offensive- bieath. Xne sound upon percussion is more or less dull; and upon auscultation, either the crepitant rattle, sometimes with large bells, is heard, or this is heard with inaudi- bility of the vesicular sound most usually in the subscapular and inferior convex .region of one or both lungs. With these symp- toms are usually associated great feebleness, delirium or typho- mania, intermittent, irregular small pulse, a tendency to gangrene of the extremities aud sacrum, hiccup, subsultus tendinum, diar- hoea; and at length with increasing difficulty of breathing, fetor of the breath, and tracheo-bronchial rattling, death ensued Some- times hemorrhage takes place from the lungs, and contributes, with the other marks of feebleness, to accelerate the approach of the fatal event. . ^ ^le second case, the distemper appears to come on at first in general as an affection of the lungs. Either the patient has an attack of pneumonic inflammation, or bronchial disease, or spitting of blood, (,hemoptysis), with more or less dull pain in some part of the side or chest, most commonly in the mammary or submammary region before and the subscapular region behind, and sometimes as if passing between these two points. Cough continues and in- creases, with sputa in general reddish, brown, or bloody, and sometimes with pure blood, and very offensive fetid breath. The countenance is anxious and livid; the complexion dingy, wan, and eaden coloured ; the cheeks occasionally tinged with a reddish or pink-coloured flush ; the eye heavy and pale, sometimes wild 3 n