887 GRANULATED LIVER. KIRRHOSIS. while the light-coloured basis retains its normal colour. This nut- meg aspect of the liver is connected with certain states of the vas- cular system of the chest and abdomen, in which some impediment is presented to the circulation of the blood. Thus it takes place in various affections of the heart, hypertrophy, valvular contraction, and similar affections, in which the blood of the vena cava does not easily return to the heart, and in which consequently the vena cava hepatica is inordinately distended. It may also take place in con- sequence of some morbid states of the abdominal circulation. § 11. Jecur Granulatum.—Jecur Tuberculatum.—Kir- rhosis. It has been already mentioned, that, in consequence of inflammatory congestion, the liver is liable to become hardened, and as if tuberculated or granulated. It may be that this is the early stage of the state which is to he described under this head by the name of Granulated Liver, Tuberculated Liver, and to which Laennec applied the epithet of Ivirrhosis. To English observers, it was known partly under the name given by Baillie of Tubercu- lated liver, and more frequently in its exquisite form under the name of hob-nailed liver. Kirrhosis appears under two forms, one an early, another a more advanced and perfect. In the early form of the disease the substance of the liver is firm, doughy, yet not irregular. The surface is coloured with patches of yellow, variable in size. The whole organ is in gene- ral somewhat enlarged, and usually weighs between four and five pounds or more. When divided it appears of an orange red co- our, or between that and orange brown; sometimes with patches of this colour diffused through the natural colour of the -land • and when a slice is immersed in water it soon imparts to the water a green colour, which is repeated after several immersions. Closely examined, the section shows innumerable small bodies like millet seed or grams of barley, of an orange colour, dispersed through its substance. Such livers are vascular in the red granular portion This lesion does not usually prove fatal of itself at this sta-e • the iiver in tws state> Sui d,soase °f the kMn^ «<«— In a more advanced stage the surface of the liver presents at veaSo‘?neaSma" elevations Hire the heads of ttches or peas, separated by irregular linear furrows. These ele