239 BRAIN, + Encefalotomia Nuova, &c. Parte iii. Articolo x. p. (!J. The valley, (vallecula, Valletta, das Thai) or hollow between the two hemispheres, is occupied by a numerous series of plates, which lie transversely, are parallel to each other, and which form a sort of uniting medium of the cerebellic plates of each side. The ap- pearance of this region in the brain ot the dog and monkey, the animals which the ancient anatomists chiefly dissected, might fur- nish them with some reason for applying to it the name of worm, or worm-shaped body ; (tfxwAjjg, emputtig <rxwA>ixoe/Sj]s.) But the mo- dern anatomists are not bound to apply it to the corresponding part of the human cerebellum, which certainly by no means jus- tifies the appellation. The confusion which has arisen from this practice of imitating the ancients is a sufficient reason to abandon the term for ever; since scarcely two anatomists agree in giving the name of vermiform process to the same part of the organ. With a view to obviate all misconception on this point, Mala- carne has recourse to distinctions completely new. Beginning with the back end of the valley at the purse-shaped notch, where are seen the plates afterwards named by Reil the short exposed cross- bands, (Die kurzen und sichtbaren-Querbander;) and the long co- vered cross-bands, (Die langen verdeckten Querbander;) and pro- ceeding forward, he distinguishes a group of parallel plates, or la- minated leaves, to which he applies the name of pyramid. This body, which is bounded behind by the purse-shaped notch, and be- fore by another cluster of plates called by Malacarne the uvula, consists of twenty parallel plates, of which six, he observes, are very short; and a triangular termination in the longer, forms the sum- mit of the body. The uvula (uyola) (Der Zapfen,* Reil,) which is anterior, he found to consist of twelve laminated leaves, to have six lines of longitudinal extent, and four of breadth. It is smaller than the pyramid, and conical, with its base turned to that body, (Reil). Lastly, anterior to the uvula, and separated from it by a furrow, is the laminar tubercle,f (tuberculo laminoso,) consisting of about ten thin leaves or transverse plates. This body, which is the smallest in the row, is the nodule or knot, (Das Knotchen) of Reil. The second surface of the brain is very,different from the first. In situation it is interior or central; and its configuration is such, * Mr Mayo, by translating this term spigot, makes it appear to be a different part from that meant by Malacarne, and understood by Reil. Though the word der Zapfen signifies spigot, it is also used to denote the uvula, and in this sense it is employed by Reil.