GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 158 /3• That the capillary system of the lungs is overloaded and op- pressed in all fevers, is one of the most certain points in pathology. During the ague fit, the respiration is invariably quicker than na- tural, sometimes to the amount of thirty or thirty-six in the minute; the patient complains of a sense of weight in the breast, cannot breathe fully, pants, and has frequent cough. In continued fever, the respiration is invariably quicker and more laborious than na- tural, a deep breath cannot be drawn easily, and more or less sense of oppression and weight is felt. I have found the respiration in continued fever so quick as thirty-six in the minute, while, in or- dinary cases, the application of the stethoscope indicates an embar- rassed state of the circulation in the pulmonary capillaries. In persons predisposed, expectoration streaked with blood, ([hcemoptoe,) is not unfrequent during continued fever. The same conclusion is clearly established by examination of the lungs of persons cut off either by intermittent or by continued fe- ver. In many instances of the former it induces bronchial inflam- mation, or proceeds to actual peripneumony or pleurisy, constitut- ing the catarrhal, pneumonic, or pleuritic tertian respectively. (Werlhof, Torti, Lancisi, &c.) In the latter, the bronchial mu- cous membrane is always more or less red, sometimes crimson or purple, or of a deep brown colour, rough, and much thickened; the submucous tissue is brown and loaded with serous fluid; and the minute vessels are much distended with dark-coloured blood. The bronchial tubes are very commonly, in fatal cases, perfectly filled with thick viscid mucus, which adheres to the inner surface of the bronchial membrane. The serous surface of the organ is generally livid or marbled from this cause; but the pleura itself is not much changed, save from bloody serum discharged into its cavity. The lungs in totality are generally dense, and firmer than in the natural state. These changes arise from the minute ramifying vessels at the termination of the pulmonary artery, and the origins of the pulmo- nary veins being unusually loaded with blood. As they are more so than can be readily affected by the ordinary quantity of air ad- missible in such a state, imperfect respiration and undue change of venous blood contributes powerfully to the bad symptoms and the unfavourable termination of the disease. In such a state of the organs of respiration the bronchial arteries are less able to coun- teract the bad effects of imperfectly respired blood, in so far as they