133 SYSTEM OF CAPILLARY VESSELS, &C. that the phenomena of injections, which prove that theii capillai ie» communicate directly with arteries conveying red blood, t le e ect of irritating applications mechanical or chemical, and the phenomena of acute or chronic inflammation, show that they may convey 01 receive red blood. The conclusion of this in common language is, that the capillary arteries and veins of the second order of tissues do not all contain red blood, but that many of them contain a co- lourless part of that fluid; and that all the capillary ai tei ies and veins of the third order of tissues convey in the natural state co- lourless blood only. What, then, is the precise idea which ought to be formed of the intermediate system which Bichat conceived to exist between the minute arteries and veins, or what have been termed the venous radiculce ? It appears that the present state of facts will admit of nothing more to constitute this capillary system than those minute vessels, whether conveying coloured or colourless blood, in which inspec- tion, microscopic observation, and injections show that arterial branches at once terminate, and minute veins (radiculce venosce) have their origin. It is clear that, physiologically speaking, these vessels can neither be regarded as arteries nor as veins strictly; for the characters on which this distinction is founded are neces- sarily lost or obliterated in this system of vessels. There is no pre- cise point at which the arterial tissue or structure can be said to terminate, and none at which the venous structure can be said to commence. Microscopic observation shows merely a minute and endless network of interlacing and communicating vessels, in which the blood moves with great velocity. And the vessels are too small to allow their structure to be correctly examined. If, however, we adopt the doctrines of Bichat with regard to the inner arterial and venous tunics forming the ultimate tube of small arteries and small veins, we must conclude that the arte- rial membrane is lost in the venous, and that the common mem- brane of red blood is identified with the common membrane of dark or modena blood. In this conclusion there is nothing either absurd or improbable, and, though not founded on actual obser- vation, it is greatly more natural than many similar ideas which have been formed on the nature of this system of vessels. It may be added that it is not at variance with what is observed in these vessels in the living body. It is found that the blood in a