INFLAMMATION OF THE KIDNEY". 931 sometimes softer than natural, sometimes harder. This difference depends probably on the duration of the inflammatory process. Blood may be expressed from the papillae. In some instances small points and drops of purulent matter, or purulent matter and fluid lymph, are infiltrated into the substance of the gland. The terminations vary according to the causes on which the disease depends, the method of treatment, and the nature of the affection. Idiopathic renal inflammation may terminate in resolution, in an attack of gout, in the deposition of sand or sabulous concretions (lithiasis), in suppuration, in suppuration with extenuation of the kidney, in induration or softening of the kidney, and perhaps in granular deposition and transformation, or in death. Idiopathic nephritis may, under the prompt use of remedies, ter- minate in resolution on the third, fifth, or seventh day. In this case the pain gradually or speedily abates and finally disappears; the vomiting ceases, the heat and thirst are diminished, the patient be- comes less restless, and at length falls asleep; and the skin becoming moist, he awakes in general without any feeling of his former suf- ferings, with the pulse down at 80 or even lower, and begins to dis- charge without pain or uneasiness a considerable quantity of urine, usually dark-coloured, like brown dirty water or coffee, which de- posits on cooling a sediment dark-coloured, and sometimes slightly bloody. In the course of a day or two, if this amendment con- tinue, the urine returns to its natural standard in quantity, quality, and appearance. In cases of gouty diathesis, the pain of the renal region subsides or disappears, and at the same time pain, redness, and swelling appear on the foot or hand, and pass through their usual course. If neither of these results take place on or before the fifth or the seventh day, it may be apprehended that the disease is to ter- minate either fatally, or in suppuration or abscess, or distension and attenuation of the kidney, or one or other of the events already specified. When the fatal termination takes place, it is generally preceded by complete suppression of the urinary secretion, slow full pulse, stupor proceeding to coma, and a urinous exhalation from the sur- face of the body. When nephritis terminates neither in resolution nor in death, it may he apprehended that it is to end in suppuration or some