GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 48 scribed by Mr Wood, in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, some facts tend to confirm the notion originally entertained by Camper,* that it is a morbid growth seated in one of the subcutaneous nerves, or probably in its neurilema.f 11. Cysts. Bichat has taken considerable pains to show the in- fluence of this tissue on the formation of cysts. These, it is well known, are shut sacs containing fluids of different sorts. But how- ever these fluids may differ, the containing cyst, which is a secret- ing membrane, has been regarded as formed of condensed and mo- dified filamentous tissue. Against this doctrine Bichat urges the following objections. 1. Cysts are analogous in all respects to serous membranes, and should therefore have the same origin. 2. This mechanical hypothesis of their origin, in which all the vessels ought to be obliterated, does not accord with the exhaling and ab- sorbing function of cysts, nor with their mode of inflammation. 3. If these sacs are formed by the mutual application and agglutina- tion or adhesion of cells, (that is, of the filaments,) the contiguous tissue ought to he diminished, or to disappear when they are bulky, which is not observed to take place. 4. If cysts are formed by condensation of the filamentous tissue, and if their fluid is effused by exhalation, this fluid ought to exist in the organ which separates them from the blood. .For these reasons he infers that cysts begin at first to be deve- loped, and to grow in the midst of the filamentous tissue, according to laws analogous to those of the growth of parts in general, and which appear to be unknown aberrations, or unnatural applica- tions of these laws. When the cyst is once formed, the process of exhalation commences, and though scanty at first, it increases as the cyst enlarges. In short, the formation and growth of the or- gan precedes the accumulation of the fluid. 12. Degeneration. This term is obviously vague and indefinite. Under it, however, Sandifort has described in the body of a female infant a preternatural state of the cellular tissue of the breast, back, and axillary regions.^; In some respects this change resembles the disease described above as induration. In others, however, it was different. * Demonstrationum Anatomico-Pathologicarum, Lib. i. p. 11. t Ed. Journal, Vol. XI. p. 468. $ Observationes Anatomico-Pathologicse Eduardi Sandifort, Lib, iv. cap. ii. p. 24. Lugduni Batavorum, 1777. 4to