321 BRAIN. come like coagulated or boiled albumen, or may approach in consistence to that of the brain which has been immersed in stiong alcohol or dilute acid. From the facts hitherto collected, this in- duration appears to be of two kinds, according as it takes place in a shorter or longer period. «. According to the facts collected by Bouillaud, a general in- duration of the brain may take place within ten or fifteen days be- fore death, with more or less redness and injection of the cerebral substance. By M. Gaudet this change is conceived to be one of the material causes of ataxic, (typhoid) fever.* * * § This is not very widely different from the view of Bouillaud, who, like M. Brous- sais, regards it as the result of meningo-encephalic inflammation.f Notwithstanding the authority of these observers, I think it doubtful whether this change can be supposed to take place in the short period assigned for it Is it not more reasonable to think that this change had pre-existed for some time, and that it ter- minated in a more acute disorder of the organ or its membranes, which proved fatal ? /3. The chronic induration of the brain has been long known. Originally observed by Littre, Geoffroy, Boerhaave, Lancisi, and Santorini, it was recognized by Morgagni as a morbid change which occasionally caused more or less mental derangement.^ J. F. Meckel afterwards undertook to establish this doctrine more fully, and to show that the organ is harder and more elastic than natural. With this change, however, he rather paradoxically con- nects another, diminution of specific gravity, and finds that a cube of six lines of indurated brain is from 1^ to 2 grains lighter than a cube of the same size of sound hrain. In six among fifteen cases given by this author, the brain was much firmer than natural; in some as hard as indurated white of egg, and always elastic.§ This result, though not entirely, is partly verified hy the re- * Recherches sur l’endurcissement general de l’encephale, consideree comme une des causes materielles des fievres dites ataxiques, par M. Le Docteur Gaudet. Paris, 1825. t Observations et Reflexions sur l’induration generate de la substance du Cerveau, consideree comme un effet de l’encephalite generate aigue, par M. Bouillaud. Ar- chives Generates, Tome viii. p. 477. t Epistola Anatomico-Med. viii. 4—18. § Recherches Anatomico-Physiologiques sur les causes de la Folie qui viennent du vice des parties internes du corps humain, par M. Meckel. Mem. de l’Academie Royale de Berlin, Tome vii. p. 806, art. 92. Avignon, 1768. X