GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 258 Varoli, who has the merit of first examining with attention what is termed the base of the brain, traced in these bodies longitudinal fibres passing upwards through the body, named after him Pons Varolii, the annular protuberance, (proluberantia annularis ; Wil- lis ; nodus cerebri; Rau;) towards the limbs and substance of the brain. By Vieussens and Morgagni the fact of this arrangement was afterwards verified; and it has been confirmed by the obser- vations of Reil on the adult brain, and by those of Tiedemann in the foetal organ. The pyramidal bodies, situate on the anterior part of the medulla oblongata, and mutually separated by the median furrow, consist entirely of bands or rods of whitish fibres, (Die Mark Stabchen,) extending longitudinally through them. Becoming thicker, but not less compact at the upper end, where they are connected with the part named bridge, (pons Varolii; die Brucke;) or annular protuberance; (nodus cerebri ;) these longitudinal fibres undergo a new arrangement. First, They are covered with a firm layer of transverse fibres, which proceed, as it were, from the middle line on each side circularly round. These fibres are white, firm trans- versely, and abundantly distinct. When peeled off to the depth of about H line or two, the longitudinal fibres of the pyramids be- gin to appear ; but no longer collected in mass as below. Nume- rous transverse or circular-transverse fibres are interposed between them, so as to separate them into layers. Hence results the com- plex structure of the bridge, which externally appears to consist of circular-transverse matter, but internally presents many longitudi- nal bands. It is worthy of notice, that in transverse and longitu- dinal sections the part which appears gray on the transverse section, is white on the longitudinal, and conversely. The closeness with which the circular fibres are compacted render the bridge decidedly the firmest part of'the whole brain. Proceeding from the lower to the upper surface of the bridge, this combination of long and cross bands is less distinct. Part, il not the whole of the transverse fibres, sink into the peduncles or crura of the cerebellum ; and they evidently predominate here over the longitudinal. The posterior-upper part of the medulla oblongata consists of two longitudinal bodies separated on the median line by a deep furrow. These, which are the restiform or rope-like processes, chordal pro' of Ridley, (corpora restiformia) (processus rest formes, Mor- 3 cesses