GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 346 be the colloid or glue-like cancer of M. Laennec. While the greater part of this body was hard, its centre was reduced to a yellow diffluent pulp. Mr R. Wade, Medical and Physical Journal.—In the upper part of the left lobe (hemisphere) of the brain, a hard body of the size of a small hen’s egg, like medullary sarcoma, but as firm as scirrhus of the female breast. The greatest part consisted of yellow-white striae, as hard as cartilage, the remainder dark-gray and less firm, not very distinguishable after maceration. Pulpy destruction around. Under his fifth head, Dr Monro has shortly noticed seven speci- mens of this change of structure preserved in the University Museum. Its hardness, irregular surface, and cartilaginous struc- ture, with a resemblance to a section of the kidney, are the circum- stances principally remarked. From the above accounts, which I consider to be the most au- thentic on record, a general idea of the anatomical characters of what is meant by scirrhus of the brain (chomdroma) may be ob- tained. A mass generally of irregular shape, distinguished from the surrounding cerebral substance by its firmness, sometimes a lobulated structure, by its interior substance consisting of a pro- portion more or less considerable of yellowish matter as hard as cartilage, arranged sometimes in streaks or bands, in other cases in round nodules, constitutes the principal characters of this mor- bid growth in its crude or early stage. At a more advanced pe- riod cavities begin to be formed, in which is contained a fluid or semifluid matter sometimes jelly-like, at other times thinner, and occasionally tinged with blood. Before this process of softening has advanced far death takes place in general by suspension of the functions of the organ. The cartilaginous tumour may be deposited in a tubercular form, and perhaps consisting partly of tubercular or albuminous matter. Of this a good instance is given by Bayle in his Treatise on Pul- monary Consumption. A printer of 58, with complete paraplegy, and obliteration of the intellect almost to idiocy, followed by weak- ness of the arms and sudden loss of speech, died with lethargy and paralytic dyspnoea. In the anterior part of the right hemisphere was a tubercular and cancerous mass the size of a turkey’s egg, nearly spherical, and of considerable consistence and specific gra- vity. With a reddish-gray surface irregularly knobbed, traversed by blood-vessels, it consisted internally of a canary-yellow, thick, granular, pasty matter, void of vessel or trace of organization, re- sembling scrofulous tubercles beginning to soften, with this diffe- rence, that in some points it was humid and infiltercd with serous