552 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. portion, but so faintly that a high magnifying power is required to render them visible. In the pyloric portion the same cellular appearance continues; but here and there are small clusters, the sides of which rise above the surface, giving the appearance of foliated membranes. These cells are, according to Dr Boyd, about ^th of one inch in diameter near the cardia. Not half an inch from the cardia, however, these large cells give place to small regular cells which characterize the whole internal surface of the organ. When the mucous membrane is extended, they appear regular both in shape and size, varying from 2l0th to 355th part of one inch in diameter, being smaller in the young than in the adult. Near the pylorus, again, they are enlarged, being about 155th of one inch in diameter. The floor of each cell appears perforated by numerous circular openings, as if a number of tubes opened on it; and on making a vertical section of the mucous membrane, it is seen to be composed of strice or fibres running perpendicularly from the free surface of the membrane to the cellular coat beneath. These strice or fibres are known to be small tubes lying parallel to each other. These tubes are longest, and are most distinctly seen near the pylorus, and indeed all over the organ. At the cardia they are short, little more than simple rings, lying close to each other. They are about ^Sgtli part °f 01ie inch in diameter, appear to have no immediate connection with the cells into which they gene- rally open, and are supposed to be subservient to a different func- tion.* There is strong reason to believe, nevertheless, that these tubes are concerned in some mode in the secretion of gastric fluid. In the human stomach, glands or follicles are found mostly at the pylorus. In other regions they are, in the state of health, not very distinct. Indeed, the gastric follicles of the human stomach are always in the healthy state indistinct. A kind of minute gland- like bodies nevertheless is sometimes perceptible along the small arch. The next peculiarity which it is important to notice is the exist- ence of minute piles or villosities in the gastro-enteric division. These bodies are best seen by detaching, inverting, and inflating a portion of ileum. When this is immersed in pure water, the ob- server may perceive, by means of its refracting power, an infinite * Essay on the Structure of the Mucous Membrane of the Human Stomach, by Sprott Boyd, M. D. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. XLYI. p. 382. Edin- burgh, 1836. 4