876 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. of its venous system with that of the liver, give rise, in the latter organ, kyrritation, which might readily terminate in suppuration. Physicians in India, where this union is most commonly seenj ascribe the dysenteric disorder to the passage of irritating bile! Were this always the case, then it ought to be expected that the small intestine should be diseased before the large intestine. This however, is so far from being the case, that most commonly the colon is first diseased; and, in many cases, the colon alone is ulce- rated, while the ileum remains sound. The bile, if it irritate, must irritate most the membrane which it touches first; and, before it reaches the colon, its irritative properties ought to be abated, if not extinguished. Yet the effects of this irritation are presented in no degree almost by the small intestine, and in a most remarkable de- gree by the large intestine. From these facts, it seems natural to infer, that whatever be the cause of ulceration in the colon, it is not irritating bile ; that the blood sent from the diseased intestinal mu- cous membrane irritates through the branches of the portal vein the substance of the liver. § 3. Sphakelus—Gangrene of the Liver.—Gangrene of the liver is a rare affection ; and we must be cautious in admitting, as examples of the lesion, all the instances given by authors. In the majority of cases, from Morgagni downwards, the descriptions are too vague, and merely represent portions of the liver to be in a state of sphakelus. The lesion nevertheless may take place ; first, either by gangrene attacking an abscess of the liver, generally with more or less inflammation of the veins ; and, secondly, in consequence of, or in connection with, gangrene of some part of the surface, for in- stance, the toes or the sacrum, and the gangrenous inflammation passing thence, apparently by the veins, either to the liver or the lungs, or to both simultaneously. In the former case, a large portion or the whole of the walls of an abscess are soft, flaccid, and filamentous, exhaling an offen- sive odour, while the adjoining portion of liver is also more or less softened, dark coloured, and lacerated. In the latter case, the lesion appears in the form either of one gangrenous abscess, that is, an abscess with soft, ragged, dark brown fetid-smelling walls; or in the shape of several collections, of the same characters, while the neighbouring veins contain fetid purulent matter. Gangrene of the liver is occasionally associated also with gan- grene of the lungs. 4