262 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. before. The longitudinal bands of which they consist give their lower surface a fluted appearance, at least to the inner margin of the optic tracts, by which they are obliquely crossed. Connected before with the posterior-inferior region of the thalami, they may be traced into the substance of these parts, where they undergo an arrangement new and peculiar. Though the name couch or thalamus be still applied to these bodies, it conveys an erroneous idea of their anatomical relations. With the striated bodies, they form the central portion and most perfectly organized nucleus of the organ. Each optic thalamus may be said to be united behind with its fellow by means of the quadrigeminous eminences. These con- sist superficially of epithelion or capsular cerebral matter, below of a semilunar stratum of fibres derived from the cerebral limbs, while a similar production forms the deep layer of the corpus geni- culaturn internum. In each optic thalamus may be distinguished, according to Red, four layers, each consisting of gray and white matter. The up- permost is merely the epithelion or condensed matter which forms the covering. The second is connected with the inner corpus ge- niculatum, from which fibres appear to spread or expand in the manner of rays, over the outer edge of the limb, and embracing the part to be mentioned as the nucleus of the brain. The third layer consists of a set of fibres which, issuing from the upper layer of the brain-limb at their entrance into the thalamus, are firmly tied as it were into a loop or knot, (die Schleife,) and are then expanded like a brush into the substance of the thalamus. The lower is formed chiefly by the cerebral limb. It is partly in the former, partly in the latter, that the dark-coloured matter consti- tuting the locus niger is placed. The thalamus is so intimately connected with the limbs, that they must be viewed as essential parts of the same organized whole. The component rods or fibrous bands (seine Markstabchen) of the latter, partly combining with the former, but chiefly receiving them, spread out near the outer edge of the thalamus circularly, and con- stitute the radiated expansion called by Ileil the Stafhvreath. (Der Stab-Kranz.) These rods, at first obliquely horizontal, gra- dually, as they expand, assume a more vertical direction. Inwards, or towards the mesial plane from the first band or rod ascends the anterior pillar of the Twainband ( fornix) to the knobs of the beam.