222 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. lymphatic glands were affected with this morbid change to such ex- tent as to cause fatal suffocation.* In the internal iliac glands it is not uncommon, so as to form large indurated masses ; and in the female may operate as a cause of difficult parturition equally fatal to the mother and the infant. (Hunter apud Cruikshank.)f The same disease occurs in the mesentery either primarily, or in con- sequence of ulceration of the intestines. 5. Tyroma glandularum. Tyromatous deposition. Tubercular deposition. The lymphatic glands are liable to become the seat of a deposit of matter different in all appearances from their own tis- sue. The gland or glands so affected may either be enlarged or not: but in almost all cases they are eventually enlarged, sometimes to three, four, or even six times their natural size. Their shape they sometimes retain, sometimes not, becoming irregular on the surface, lobulated, and generally projecting considerably in the free or unattached direction. When divided by incision, the sec- tion presents not the usual bluish or pale-red tint of the healthy lymphatic gland ; but a colour cream-yellow, gray, or whitish gray. Nor is this colour always uniform ; for in one lymphatic gland in a cluster it is cream-yellow, or grayish, and in another it is of white colour, and sometimes this difference is seen in different parts of the same gland. In this material few or no vessels are recog- nised. The whole is more or less a homogeneous matter of gray or cream-yellow colour, like soft cheese, pretty firm and resisting; and it presents to the glass no arrangement of cells or vessels, but a confused mass of substance with no trace or mark of organiza- tion. This has been called cheesy or caseous substance; and in those cases in which it is deposited in the form of small spherical or spheroidal globules, it has been named tubercle, and tubercular. I think that the term Tyroma (Tugog, caseus,) is most suited to ex- press its nature and most obvious characters. This tyromatous substance is effused in the fluid or semifluid form, and then gradually acquires the consistent character. It ap- pears in several instances to be effused at different points of the gland; and hence the consistence and colour is different at different points. In the most fluid form it is like thickish cream, or a mix- ture of chalk and water. In others more consistent the matter contained is like soft putty, or consists of consistent granules diffus- ed in a whey like or milk like fluid. This is what is often called * Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels, p. 129. + Ibid. p. 12.3.