GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1030 stomach is enlarged or distended to two or three times its usual bulk. 1 he mucous membrane of the organ is very generally in an unhealthy state, either wholly or partially. It may be in the splenic end softer and thinner than natural, with a bluish-white or yellow- ish colour. This takes place in one-fifth. The same part may be reddened or softened. In about one-fifth the mucous membrane of the anterior coat is red, thickened, and softened,—generally in connection with enlargement of the liver. Ulcers, prominences, and granulations, are found in a smaller pro- portion of cases. Most of these lesions are to be viewed as the effect of some form of inflammation ; and it is established that, in the phthisical, irritation or inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane is very readily induced. By far the most constant lesion in the alimentary canal of the phthisical, consists in some change in the mucous membrane of the ileum or of the colon. The most common lesion in the former is the presence of ulcers, which are observed in five-sixths of the cases. In one-sixth they occupy the whole tract of the intestine; and in the other two-ninths they are found only at the lower part of the ileum. These ulcers always correspond to the aggregated glands of Peyer, in which they begin; but as the disease proceeds, if life he protracted, they ex- tend to the mucous membrane in general, and thus are found to occupy the greater part or the whole circumference of the bowel. Their shape is elliptical, annular, or linear. In general, at the commencement, they appear in one or two points, that is, in one or two follicles of one of the aggregated glands. In the advanced stage of the disease, several of these coalescing may form a large and extensive ulcer. The latter is mostly seen at the lower end of the ileum, where that bowel enters the colon. In some instances, these ulcers may commence in the isolated follicles ; but this is not common. A lesion less frequent is the presence of granulations, semicar- tilaginous or tubercular, in the ileum. These lesions, which appear to be seated in the isolated follicles of the bowel, and which consist in tubercular degeneration of the follicles, take place in three- eighths of the cases. Much in the same manner, and at the same rate, is the raucous membrane of the colon liable to be diseased. It is reddened either continuously or in patches. The most common lesion is the prc-