INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—CHRONIC ULCERATION. 631 by the ulcerative process, leaving an irregular surface, partly gra- nulating, partly ulcerated in the mucous tissue. The margins axe sharp, clean, and accurately cut, almost as if tiey ia een |vl by a knife, and slightly turned up, so as to leave an excavatec row beneath the mucous membrane which forms the margins, colour of the bottom of these ulcerated patches, when recent, was reddish brown, and the contiguous mucous membrane was red, verging to pale rose colour and peach blossom. This, howevei, has disappeared, and at present it is much the same tint as the healthy part of the mucous surface. The mucous membrane is a good deal thickened and rather firmer than in the sound part oi the tube. At each of these ulcerated bands the submucous and sub- serous filamentous tissue is thickened, but indurated and contract- ed, so as to diminish considerably the calibre of the canal. In the first patch, which is about twelve inches from the ileo-caecal valve, this thickening consists of a firm knot like a bean, at the mesente- ric side of the bowel, and the intestine is contracted to about half its usual capacity. In the second, about five inches from the ileo- cecal valve, this indurated knot at the mesenteric attachment of the bowel is equally well marked, and has had, if possible, greater influence in contracting and diminishing the canal of the bowel. The ulcerated surface is very irregular by soft spongy eminences, separated by means of linear furrows. The third occupies the end of the ileum and beginning of the colon, and has entirely destroy- ed, with the mucous membrane of both bowels, the ileo-csecal valve. The destroyed part here presents a surface consisting in very mi- nute round granules; and in the beginning of the colon are one or two large irregular granulations. The same inflammatory in- duration of the submucous and subserous filamentous tissue has here operated in diminishing the capacity of the bowel 5 and, in- deed, previous to being cut open, it seemed almost impervious. The inflammatory process here had produced peritoneal inflamma- tion, and false membrane connecting the ileum, caput cacum, and part of the colon together. The vermiform process is unaffected. Opposite to each were enlarged mesenteric glands, and especially at the last mentioned one was a cluster of large knotty masses. Though I describe the ultimate effects of this destructive pro- cess, I have no doubt, from what I have seen of other cases in ear- lier stages, that it is the result of chronic inflammation of the in- testinal mucous membrane, originating in the agminated follicles, at