15 DIVISION OF THE TEXTURES. and its parts. These organized solids are not in a strict physical sense solid and impenetrable. Most of them are soft, compressible, and elastic, by reason of the fluid matter contained in their inter- stices; and when deprived of this by desiccation, they shrink in various degrees, and lose both bulk and weight. The general ratio of the fluid to the solid parts varies from 7 to 1, to 9 to 1. An adult carcass weighing perhaps from 9 to 10 stones, has been reduced by desiccation to 7^ lbs. A human body may be reduced to nearly the weight of its skeleton, which varies from 150 ounces = 9|lbs. to 200 ounces = 12^ lbs. These organized solids agree in the possession of certain gene- ral characters. Their internal structure consists of a union of solid and liquid matter, which is observed to exude in drops more or less abundant from the surface of sections. The solid parts are generally arranged in the form of collateral lines, sometimes ob- lique, sometimes perfectly parallel, sometimes mutually intersect- ing. Such lines are denominated fibres, and occasionally filaments. In other instances the solids are observed to consist of minute glo- bular or spheroidal particles, which are shown by the microscope to be cells or membranous cavities with a central nucleus, connect- ed generally by delicate filaments. Most of these solids anatomists and microscopical observers have attempted to resolve into what they conceive to be an ultimate fibre or last element; but this inquiry leads beyond the bounds of strict observation. Most of the solids may be demonstrated to be penetrated by mi- nute ramifying tubes or blood-vessels, which traverse their sub- stance in every direction, and in which is contained the greater part, perhaps the whole, of the fluid matter found in the solids. In a few, in which ramifying vessels cannot be positively demon- strated, their existence is inferred by analogy from those in which they can. The filamentous, fibrous, or globular or cellular ar- rangement, with the distribution of arborescent vessels, constitutes organization. The substances so constructed are named organized tissues (tela. textus,) or textures, or simply tissues. The organized solids also resemble each other in chemical con- stitution. They may be resolved into proximate principles, either the same or very closely allied. The proximate principles most generally found are albumen, fibrin, and gelatine, one or other of which, sometimes more, form the basis of every tissue of the human body. Next to these are mucus, and oily or adipose mat- ter. Osmazome or extractive matter is found in certain tissues.