492 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. examined. Boiling shows that it contains gelatine ; but as a good deal of the matter is undissolved, it must he concluded also that it is under some modification, or united with some other principle, perhaps albumen. Immersion in nitric acid or boiling fluids in- duces crispation ; and it dries hard and semitransparent, like horn. Section II. Cartilage is subject to inflammation, which in the chronic form passes into ulceration or erosion,—an affection common in the ar- ticular cartilages of the thigh-bone and tibia. In this state cartilage becomes reddish or vascular, and flaccid, or soft and spongy, with a lardaceous appearance and distinct fibrous arrangement. It swells and acquires a size double or even four times larger than natural. In this state it does not become yellow, nor is dissolved by boiling. This is most common in the hip-joint. (Bichat.) When inflammation continues some time, it produces erosion. The first trace of this consists in minute reddish perforations ap- pearing at the synovial surface of the cartilage, and gradually ex- tending and becoming deeper. At first they are circular ; but as these perforations by extension coalesce, irregular abraded patches are produced, which at length become so deep as to expose the de- nuded bone. When this takes place, as the process advances, ir- regular excavations are hollowed in the epiphyses, which then pre- sent the state described at p. 477. This form of caries, which re- sembles in some respects spina ventosa, is, I conceive, the one to which Severinus alludes, and to which he wishes to restrict the epithet of paedartlirokake. I have seen it in adults, however; and it is most frequent in the knee-joint, in which 1 have seen it re- move every trace of cartilage. In this process Hunter represents the transverse fibres as giving way first; but this distinction is too refined. The disease may terminate in bony ankylosis. It occurs also in the hip-joint and in the elbow-joint. In the cartilages of the larynx inflammation takes place either primarily or by extension from the perichondrium or the mucous membrane of the throat. When it takes place primarily, it is re- presented by Mr Porter as preceded by ossification. When it takes place secondarily, it may occasionally be traced to ordinary inflam- mation from exposure to cold, the poison of syphilis, or the unfa- vourable operation of mercury. In either case it produces a bad