260 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. slow,* Lieutaud, and Soemmering,f it had escaped the noticeof Hal- ler, Vicq-D’Azyr, Monro, and others, and was, therefore, doubted till revived by M. Gall. Independent of the testimony of the above authors, it is easy to demonstrate by slight separation of the resti- form bodies the fact, that whitish chords are seen lying obliquely across the linear depression, and that those connected with the right process cross to the left, while conversely those of the left cross to the right. It is to the inner or mesial fibres of the restiform processes only that this cross plaiting is confined. Neither the pyramidal, nor the olivary, nor even the whole of the restiform bodies partake of it. It is sufficient, however, to establish a communication between the right and left halves of this part of the spinal chord. It was seen by Tiedemann in the fourth and fifth weeks of uterine life. The interior fibres of these bodies are longitudinal, and proceed partly to the cerebellum, partly to the protuberance. The deep- seated layer is partly interwoven with the transverse circular fibres of this body, in the same manner in which those of the pyramidal eminences are, partly bends up to the peduncles of the cerebellum, with the bands of which they are then combined. The superficial layer is connected chiefly with the substance of the corpora quadri- gemina, (Die Vierhugel,) which constitute the upper surface of the protuberance. The structure of the olivary body is more complex. Though its surface consists of longitudinal fibres, which, like those of the other eminences, are lost in the protuberance, these form a sort of super- ficial covering to a capsule of gray matter arranged in a serrated form, inclosing a nucleus of white. This arrangement constitutes a ciliary or moriform body, (corpus ciliare, c. dentatum, c. rhom- boidcum,) precisely similar to that in the white trunks of the cere- ordines et colores, in adversum latus productas, et decussatas fibras commode specta- vimus. Si ea tamcn evidenter uspiam conspicitur, profecto quam evidentissime duas vix lineas infra pyramidalia, atque adeo olivaria corpora conspici potest. Qua enim in longitudinem producta linea, seu rimula pyramidalia corpora (the restiform pro- cesses) discernuntur, si leniter diducantur, probe prius eo potissimum loco artissime hajrente tenui meninge nudata, non tenues decussari fibrillas sed validos earundemfas- ciculos in adversa contendere, quam apertissime demonstravimus.” Observ. Anatom. J. D. Santorini. Lug. Bat. 1739. Gap. 3, § 12. p. 61. Also Tab. II. apud Girardi, p. 20> 29> . , . * Exposition Anatomique, &c. Par J. B. Winslow. Paris, 1732. Traite de a Teste, 110, p. 626. t S. T. Soemmering de Basi Encephali, lib. ii. sect. 3. § 18.