278 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. tinguisli. At first a part of the brain becomes more or less red and vascular. As this goes on, it passes successively into crimson, violet or purple, brown, or claret colour, while the consistence of the part is much diminished. A shade of green announces the formation of purulent fluid; and in proportion as this process con- tinues before life is extinct, the part becomes yellow, or gray, or grayish brown, (subfusca) very soft and pulpy, or even semifluid. It is perhaps equally rare in this as in the former case, to find per- fect purulent matter in a distinct cavity. This change, which is often mentioned by Morgagni,* * * § is one form of the disease describ- ed by R os tan f and Lallemand,+ under the name of softening (ra- mollissement) of the brain, and since that time by Bouillaud, Bright, Durand-Fardel, and other authors. The softening is a mere effect of the process of inflammation, subacute or chronic. In some instances the softening is attended with- effusion of serous fluid, without much discoloration of the part. Subacute or chronic inflammation, terminating in softening of the brain, may take place either on the convoluted surface of the organ, when it generally occupies an extent of two or three square inches; or at the figurate surface, when it is most common on the middle portion, (septum lucidum,) and extending along the twain- band; or in the substance of the organ, when it affects most fre- quently the striated bodies, the optic thalami, the central part of the hemispheres, the cerebellum, and the cerebral prolongations, (crura cerebri,) in the order now enumerated. Its occurrence in the spinal chord, in which the same series of changes takes place, has been described by M. Pinel the younger,§ M. Olivier, |) and M. Velpeau.11 What is the intimate nature of this disease, and wherein does it * Epistola, V. 6, 7. IX. 16, 18, 19. In the brain of Marchetti, the anatomist, who, after two epileptic attacks, died apoplectic, the gray matter was so tender, that on the slightest touch it was converted into a fluid substance, as if it never had co. hcred.—L. vii. 14, 15. •J" Recherches sur une maladie encore peu connue, qui a reju le nom de ramollisse- ment du Cerveau. Par L. N. Rostan, Medecin de la Salpetriere, &c. A. Paris, 1820. $ Recherches Anatomico-Pathologiques sur l’Encephale, et ses dependances. Par F. Lallcmand, Prof, de Clinique, Ac. Paris, 1820-1821. § Sur l’lnflammation de la Moelle Epiniere. By M. Pinel, Fils. Journal de Phy- siologie Experimentale, Vol. li. p. 54. || De la Moelle Epiniere et de ses Maladies. Par C. P. Ollivier. Paris, 1824. Memoire sur une Alteration de la Moelle Allongtse, &c. Par M. A. Velpeau. Archives Generates, Tome VII. p. 52 and 329. Paris, 1825.