347 BRAIN. fluid. This was the case in the walls of an anfractuous irregular cavity without membrane, and containing two spoonfuls of clear yellowish fluid. The tubercular matter formed the centre and the three upper fourths of the tumour. The rest was what is described as cancerous,—a firm grayish-white shining tissue, traversed in all directions by blood-vessels, and presenting even a minute bloody effusion. Though the tumour was without cyst, its surface was covered by a celluloso-vascular tissue, which sent numerous irre- gular productions into the substance. It was surrounded by a layer of cerebral matter, reduced as usual to the consistence of thick cream.* 6. Calcareous or Bony deposits, and Concretions.—This morbid deposition is by no means so common in the brain as in its mem- branes ; and a large proportion of the cases termed ossification or petrification of the brain are doubtless examples of ossific tumours originating in the membranes. It appears, nevertheless, that some instances have occurred to different observers. Kerkringius men- tions as a cause of fatuity, a concretion weighing thirteen grains in the right ventricle.! Kentmann notices an ash-coloured one, the size and shape of a mulberry Deidier found the left corpus stria- tum osseous;§ and Tyson mentions the case of a man who died of the effects of a blow on the head, in whom one of the inferior corpora quadrigemina was as large as a nutmeg, and contained a chalk mass like a cherry-stone, with pulpy destruction of the organ. || Blegny saw a stone as large as a bean at the union of the optic nerves in the brain of a lady, who, after violent pains of the head with fever, be- came blind, and died.H In the brain of a man who had suffered long from acute pain of the hind head, notwithstanding the use of blisters, setons, &c. M. Boyer found a hard plaster-like concretion as large as a filbert.** In the brain of a boy of 16, an idiot from birth, Sir E. Home found the protuberance, cerebellic peduncles, and part of the cerebellum, containing so much earthy matter as to be with difficulty cut by the knife.ft Professor Nasse found in the left * Recherches sur la Phthisie Pulmonaire, &c. Par G. G. Bayle. A Paris 1810 P. 305. ’ t Observat. Anatom. 35. £ De Calculis Libellus. § Des T umeurs, p. 351. II Philosophical Transactions, No. 228. IT Zodiacus Gallicus, Obs. xiv. p. 81. ** Cruveilhicr, Essai sur PAnatomie Pathologinue, T. ii. p. 84. -ft Phil. Trans. 1814.