GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 302 lesion of the function of the lungs, the vessels of which become dis- tended with unrespired blood, while the air-vesicles are ruptured, and death is effected by asphyxia. The state of the cerebral vessels which terminates in hemorrhage may occur, perhaps, at any period of adult life. But these blood- vessels are liable to a peculiar state which predisposes to impeded motion, accumulation, and extravasation. This consists in deposi- tion of earthy matter between the coats of the internal carotid arte- ries, and of the basilar artery and their branches. In consequence of this deposition, they lose much of their contractile and distensile powers, and some of their tenacity; become rigid, brittle, and less able to perform their functions as transmissile tubes; and whenever blood is accumulated in unusual quantity, as they do not so readily admit of distension, rupture is the consequence. (Baillie, 454.) Hodgson also shows how generally this morbid state of the cere- bral arteries is connected with extravasation.* This cause, however, is predisponent only. A fit of apoplexy may occur and prove fatal in persons in whom neither ossification of the arteries of the brain, nor any other state, except mere vascu- lar injection, is found. And, on the other hand, the cerebral ar- teries may be ossified or steatomatous, in many persons who have never had a single fit of apoplexy. The general result of the cases observed by Vater, Morgagni, Cheyne, Howship, Rochoux, Serres, and Tacheron, is, that disease of the arterial coats is connected with vascular injection, which may terminate, according to circumstances, in serous effusion, pulpy destruction, or bloody extravasation. It is a well established fact, however, that the extravasation does not take place from the diseased arterial trunks, but from the minute capillaries in which these arteries terminate. Old age has generally been regarded as a predisponent cause of apoplexy; and it is attended with two circumstances, which are perhaps not altogether without reason regarded as of some moment. The first of these is the venous plethora, so ingeniously maintained by Cullen. The second is the tendency which the arterial system more especially betrays to become diseased after the meridian of life. The proofs of the existence of venous plethora, and the theory of its operation, may be found in Cullen, who, perhaps, overrated its influence. There is little doubt that the circulation in the veins, either in consequence of diminished pressure and tension of the skin and other coverings, does not go on with the same perfection and * A Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, pp. 25 and 26.