INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—CiECAL DISEASE. 633 and thickened and elevated by inflammation. Then the summits of these covered by the remains of purulent matter and adherent mucus are separated; and below are disclosed ulcerated surfaces to the same extent as the glands of follicles originally. affected. This process extends and deepens, until the submucous tissue and the peritoneum are affected. Lymph is effused over the suiface of the latter ; and this for some time either prevents the bowel from being perforated, or it unites the peritoneal coat of the caecum w'ith the muscular peritoneum and the abdominal muscles. At the same time the mucous membrane of the vermiform process is affected by inflammation of its follicles and subsequent ulceration ; so that when the body is inspected after death, this appendage pre- sents numerous ulcers along its internal surface. When the inflammatory action has caused the agglutination of the csecal peritonaeum to the muscular peritonaeum and abdominal muscles, the morbid process is not thereby stopped. Very com- monly it is extended progressively to the cellular tissue outside the peritonaeum, thence to the muscles in the right iliac region, and it may even produce an external abscess in these muscles, the open- ing of which on the surface will depend on the time during which life is prolonged. In one case of this kind, which I inspected in the body of a young female of 11 or 12, the caecum itself was greatly distended; the cxtra-caecal peritoneum was partly adherent to the muscular, and partly destroyed by ulceration ; the round or convex part of the bowel was perforated with 6 or 7 ragged apertures, various in size and shape ; matter was found all round it and between them, and also externally to the muscular peritoneum, and between the fibres and layers of the abdominal muscles; and the skin, though not de- stroyed, was undermined. When the disease had reached this point death had taken place. But had life been prolonged a few days more, an opening in the skin of the right iliac region would have taken place ; and a fistulous, cavernous abscess passing through the abdominal muscles and into the caecum must have ensued. In this case also the colon was small, contracted, and almost empty, its size being more like that of the ileum than the colon, while the ileum was distended by feculent contents to about three or four times its usual size, and presented at first sight the appearance of the colon. This fact deserves, as we shall see, especial attention. Another mode in which this disease shows itself is the following.