767 GLANDULAR TISSUE. thin and membranous, that they may be justly regarded as the ru- dimental or essential portions of the kidneys. Of the mode in which the blood-vessels communicate with these pores and their membranes, nothing is accurately known, except that the vessels ramified to an infinite degree of delicacy and mi- nuteness terminate in the membrane. Thus it appears that the most simple and elementary form of a gland is a hollow cylinder or tube communicating either directly with the surface of the body, or indirectly by opening on a mucous membrane; that the superior, internal, or upper end of this tube presents the form of a closed sac; that the shut end, nevertheless, communicates m different modes with the vascular system; or that branches and ramifications of the vascular system terminate on this closed end. It further will afterwards appear, that the forms which this arrangement and connection with the vascular system presents, may be very much varied. Meanwhile, it is necessary to state here the general characters of every form of gland. I; All glands, however much they may depart from the confor- law of format^1"8 T ’ "eVertheless common fixed aw of formation, and present an uninterrupted series from the most simple unram,fled follicle, to the most complicated structure. the ol J ‘he secreting organs of Aspondylous animals and the 0lands of the higher classes no fixed distinction in truth exists ut simple follicles, and tubuliform secreting organs, and closed mtestmula are repeated not only in animals of the higher classes bn pass by an unbroken series through the different classes of ani- mals gradually into conglomerate glands. Thus the mammas of the Cetacea and Ornithorhyncus, the simple salivary elands of birds, the prostatic glands of several mammalia, and the pancreas of several fishes are formed after the manner of small cITor closed intestinula, as observation shows regarding thp , , , gans of the Crustacea and insects. S g " S6CretinS 0I" III. All glands with a system of secreting rLmic a • , "ally a very large.secreting surface. But bL . • pres®1lt lnter" which the secreting surface is increased within ^ ° m merable. There is indeed boundless diveT^ T T** 18 W there are in al, glands certain U1 the testes or seminiferous canals in mc The vanety -—- thea"t: