GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 144 coagulating or organizable lymph of Hunter, and the glutinous or albuminous exudation of the French pathologists.. According to the observations of Hunter, Baillie, and Home, this lymph is afterwards penetrated with minute arteries and veins, or acquires a capillary system of its own; and in this state it is properly organized lymph. This process of formation of new ca- pillaries occurs in every situation in which lymph is deposited ; ls£, In the exudation of inflamed serous membranes, which afterwards forms the membrane of adhesions; 2d, In wounds of skin, cellular membrane, mucous membrane, muscle, &c.; 3c/, In inflammation of these tissues, whether occurring spontaneously, in consequence of bruise or laceration, or the introduction of foreign bodies. In each of these cases, though suppuration should also take place, still there is lymph effused, and this lymph is penetrated by newly formed capillaries. This formation of new capillaries is termed by the French pathologists, accidental development of the capillary sys- tem. Is it lymph of a peculiar kind that is effused from the ca- pillaries of fractured bones in tbe first stage of the process of re- union ? The substance named callus is not cartilage, as was an- ciently supposed, and possesses qualities not unlike those of the lymph of soft tissues. Is lymph effused from the fragments of a broken cartilage, or a ruptured tendon ? In each of these cases of injury, a soft homogeneous fluid, pale red or bluish, is effused immediately or soon after the injury; and in each it seems to pos- sess the same qualities, and only in the course of the process of re- union to be afterwards penetrated by the peculiar matter of the tissue injured. A preliminary step to this penetration of proper substance is uniformly the formation of new capillary arteries and veins. In those examples of spontaneous disease or injury in which sup- puration takes place, the capillaries in depositing lymph are con- cerned in another process, the formation of red eminences, hemi- spherical or hemispheroidal, of various size, and varying in firm- ness or consistence. This process has been termed granulation, a name which has been also improperly given the individual bodies. The simplest, and perhaps the most correct view of this process, shows that it consists of three distinct stages, which it is important for the pathologist to know. fills up the space between the lips of the wound.”—Chirurgical Treatises by Richard Wiseman, Sergeant-Surgeon, Book v. Chap. 1. Of Wounds.