BONE. 471 mation of a bone with swelling, universal in a small bone, partial in a large one, causing the greatest pain, terminating successively in swelling of the soft parts, not unlrequently in fistulous ulcers, and caries, by all which the affected bone is converted into a lai ge, irregular, and tuberous mass of bard or highly corrupted struc- ture. From caries he distinguishes it by the presence of swelling or enlargement, and by the absence of ulceration ; and from exos- tosis and hyperostosis by the parietes of the bone being separated and destroyed.* * * § Among the four figures given by Augustin to elucidate the cha- racter and nature of the disorder, it appears that, with great irre- gularity and spiny roughness of the bones affected, and enlarge- ment, there is deposition of bone in irregular forms and masses. It is in these an abnormal nutrition or misnutrition in the bony texture. In one, (fig. 3,) a tibia, there is enlargement and separa- tion of the walls of the bone, and irregular exostotic deposits; and in another, (fig. 4,) the lower third of the os femoris is enlarged in- to a great irregular mass, very irregular on its surface, and with manifest indications of new bony deposit, f These views, nevertheless, appear to have been overlooked by Petit, Bordenave, Portal, and others, who, regarding it as a variety of exostosis occurring in the scrofulous, and complicated with'sup- puration in the substance of the bone, by a wish to simplify, have rendered the subject more complex. Scarpa, especially in his Com- mentaries, maintains that spina ventosa differs in degree only from exostosis and osteo-sarcoma.+ The opinion of Bichat is not very distinct.§ That of Monteggia and Palletta|| is much more explicit. The former represents it as commencing in the marrow, which in- flames slowly, swells and wastes, or passes into a slow suppuration, distending the parietes of the bone all round, and then bursting its compact shell, giving vent to themedullary sanies, and causing the inflammation aud suppuration of the soft parts, at the bottom of which the bone is found bare and carious, or covered with fungous granulations, but with one or more orifices penetrating into the medullary cavity.H * De Spina Ventosa Ossium. Scripsit Fridericus Ludovicus Augustin, Med. et Chirurgia: Doctor. Halae, 1797, 4to. Accedunt leones IV. § 4, § 5, § 7, § 34. + De Spina Ventosa Ossium, § 27, § 28, § 29. + Be Anatome et Pathologia Ossium, p. 76 and 78. Tieini, 1827 4to. § Anatomie Generale, Tome 111. p. 112. II Exercitationcs Patholog. Mediolani, 1820, p. 120. H Istituzione Chirurgiehc, Vol. It. 645, p. 275.