327 BRAIN. a horny hardness, emits a strong heavy smell, and leaves a com- pact shining blackish residue. This hardening affects the white matter more than the gray, in which M. Pinel has not yet recog- nized it.* * * § This change is connected with idiocy either congenital 01 ob- served soon after birth, in some instances with fatuous stupidity and palsy. In one of the cases, however, the individual appears to have possessed faculties of the ordinary degree of intelligence, till the age of 49, after which repeated attacks of palsy terminated in calm but complete fatuity, {dementia.) That the spinal chord is liable to the same change in consistence is proved.by the case of Count de Lordat, (Med. Obs. and Inq. Vol. III. p. 270,) and that of M. de Causan, recorded by Portal, in which the cervical portion was so hard as to resemble cartilage, and the membranes were red and injected. This change gave rise to palsy, proceeding from the fingers up the arms of the right side, and from the feet, till the legs lost power, and the whole side be- came atrophied, and eventually the same phenomena in the left side. Similar examples are given by Bergamaschi.f 12. Hypertrophy of the Brain. {Hypertrophia.) Though among the writings of authors on morbid anatomy slight notices are found of the lesion characterized as hypertrophy of the brain, and it was mentioned by Bouillaud, as a peculiar lesion, it was not made the subject of special observation, until M. DanceJ and M.M. Laennec,§ cousin of M. R. T. Laennec, and M. Scoutteten in 1828,|| all within a short period, gave examples of it. And in 1835, Dr Sims com- municated to the Medico-Chirurgical Society of London a memoir, containing much information on the characters and nature of hyper- trophy and atrophy of the brain. From the facts given by these authors, it results, that the brain is liable to undergo a morbid * Recherehes de PAnatomie Pathol, sur l’Endurcissement, &c. par M. Pinel Fils. Journ. de Physiol. Tome ii. p. 191. •f- Sulla Mielitide Stenica, &c. Pavia, 1820. 2d, 4th, 8th. £ Observations pour servir a l’Histoire de l’Hypertrophie du Cerveau. Par M. Dance. Breschet, Repertoire General d’Anatomie et de Physiologic Pathologique, Tome V. p. 197. Paris, 1028. (Four cases in adults of 26, 24, and 30 years of age ) § Observations sur l’Hypertrophie du Cerveau. Par Meriadee Laennec, M. D Revue Medieale, Decembre 1828. (Five cases, a woman of 32, a woman of 22, a gill of 13 ; and two men of 43 and 44, both white-lead manufacturers.) II Observation sur une Hypertrophic du Cerveau. Par M. Scoutteten, M. D. Ar- chives Generates de Medecine, Tome VIII. p. 31. (Case of a boy aged 5 4 years.)