25 FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. red globules are as much diminished as in spontaneous anaemia, while the fibrine and albumen preserve their normal proportions. In chlorosis it is a curious fact that the blood is occasionally buffy. This Andral ascribes to the circumstance, that in these patients, while the blood loses its colouring matter, it preserves all its fibrine. It must be observed, nevertheless, that in many chlo- rotic patients, processes are present which give the blood the ten- dency to the buffy coat. It is also to be observed that in renal dropsy ofttimes, while the blood is deteriorated by diminution of red particles, and while the patient is pale and dropsical, yet blood if drawn presents the huffy coat. This merely shows that the blood is altogether in an unna- tural and probably diseased condition. The textures are unable to take from it the fibrine which they do in the healthy state, and hence this fibrine remains ready to be separated in the form of buffy coat. 3. State of the blood in inflammatory diseases.—In inflammation the blood assumes the property of forming what is called the buffy coat, (tunica coriacea). This consists in the clot presenting at its surface a covering variable in thickness, whitish-grey in colour, and of con- siderable toughness. In the slightest degree it is very thin, and a mere pellicle. In more considerable degrees of inflammation, it is thicker, as thick as a shilling or a half-crown piece, and firm and te- nacious. In the most intense degree, it is as thick as a crown piece or a penny piece; extremely firm, hollow on the top and elevated at the edges; and being contracted from the circumference to the centre, it is much cupped. This condition of the blood is most common in acute rheumatism, pneumonia, pleurisy, peritonitis, he- patitis;, disease of the kidney, the early stage of pulmonary con- sumption, and similar disorders. It is also observed during preg- nancy. The cause of the buffy coat has been a subject of great inquiry ; but regarding it little is ascertained. It may often be observed in the act of formation, by the surface of the blood drawn, as it is co- agulating, assuming a peculiar bluish colour, which is evidently dependent on the liquor sanguinis undergoihg spontaneous coagu- lation, while the red part of the blood subsides from it. In gene- ral the blood coagulates more slowly in inflammatory diseases than in the healthy state. But the rate of the diminution does not cor- respond to the amount of the huffy coat. If, however, we bear this fact in remembrance, that when it takes place as in inflammatory