GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 956 It is also associated with tuberculation of the lungs, though in a much less common degree.* _ Similar are the views of Mr Toynbee. In the first stage fat be- gins to be deposited in the tubules, in the form of soft white spots. In the second stage he represents the Malpighian tufts to be bro- ken up; the tubuli to be greatly enlarged ; and the parenchymatous cells enlarged, and containing adipose deposits; and in the third stage the tubuli to be filled with oily cells, granular matter, par- ticles of various sizes, and blood-globules, f What is the cause of this fatty infiltration ? Is it an aberration in nutrition, or the effect of a particular form of inflammation. Though in favour of each of these views various plausible argu- ments may be adduced, the question appears to be one incapable of positive determination. I add the following remarks, not so much with the intention of solving the difficulty, as in illustration of the general question. * It seems scarcely possible to doubt, that, whether inflammation be the cause of the steatomatous transformation of the kidney or not, the process of inflammation is often present as an accompa- niment. Two views, indeed, may be taken of the incipient agent or generating cause, and the nature of this disease. The first is, that inflammation of a particular form attacking the cortical por- tion of the kidney, may be the cause of all the subsequent changes. The second is, that the cortical portion of the kidney may be liable to an aberration of nutrition, in consequence of which its vessels deposit not the usual proper matter of the cortical portion, but a different substance altogether, in the form of albuminous, caseous or steatomatous matter, in the interstices of the cortical tissue. The first of these opinions, namely, that inflammation of a pecu- liar kind, most probably chronic, is the main cause of the several changes, is perhaps in a large proportion of cases true. To the correctness of this conclusion it is not necessary that the change should terminate in suppuration. There may be, and we know that there are, different forms of the inflammatory process; and it is possible that the cortical or secreting portion of the kidney may be * On the Minute Anatomy and Pathology of Bright's Diseases of the Kidney, &c. By George Johnson, M. D., Mcdico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxix. p. 1. Lon- don, 1846. ( ■j- On the Intimate Structure of the Kidney, &c. By Joseph Toynbee, F. R. S. Mcdico-Chirarg. Trans. Vol. xxix. p. 303. 4