308 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. and repeated attempts at turning. In general the head has been too slowly born, or the presentation has been unfavourable. <3. On a form of apoplexy termed nervous much has been said by Zuliani of Brescia,* * * § Kortum of Dortmund in Westphalia,-f- and Kirkland of Ashby de la Zouehe and the subject has been re- vived by Mr Abernethy,§ and Dr W. Philip. In this, apoplectic, symptoms are said to take place without any abnormal state of the brain or its vessels, and from some disorder in the chylopoietic or- gans, which is supposed to induce a torpid condition of the brain, or suspension of its proper energy. It may be doubted whether satisfactory proof of such a state has yet been adduced. ls£, A fallacy results from the doctrine that hemorrhage is in all instances requisite to give rise to apoplectic symptoms. I have shown that congestion, injection, or distension of the cerebral vessels is adequate to produce this effect; and whether this state is to disappear, re- main unchanged, or produce serous effusion, or bloody extravasa- tion, so as to remain after death, will depend much on the consti- tution of the individual and the treatment employed. No satisfac- tory conclusion can be drawn from the absence of hemorrhage or serous fluid. 2d, Disorder of the chylopoietic organs is an acces- sory remote cause, which may operate on the meningeal and cere- bral circulation. 3d, The instances adduced as examples of this disease are at least ambiguous. The fourth case of Kirkland can- not be admitted. The case of Stark (§ iv. p. 73,) I have already mentioned as one of injection either of the spinal chord or its mem- branes. The first case of Dr Powell might have been similar, for the spinal chord was not examined. |] In other instances, as in that recorded by Morgagni, (Epist v. 17 and 19,) one in the meningeal vessels, and in the vascular system in general, might have been the cause of death. 4th, It has been shown by M. Serres, that many of the cases of supposed nervous apoplexy must have been examples of what he terms meningeal apoplexy, i. <?, injection of the menin- geal vessels with or without effusion or extravasation. 5th, In other instances a very slight and incipient degree of the state which is * F. Zuliani De Apoplexia presertim Nervea. Lipsire, 1700. + C. G.Theod. Kortum Tremoniae Westphali dissertatio de Apoplexia Nervosa. Goettingse, 170.5. Ext. in Frank. Dilectu, Vol. IV. p. 1 ; et Ludwig Scrip.-Neur, Tom. IV. p. 379. £ A Commentary on Apoplectic and Paralytic Affections, &c. By Thomas Kirk- land, M. D. 1792. § On the Constitutional Origin of Local Diseases. || Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. III. By Thomas Chevalier.