491 GRISTLE. * * Mem. de 1’Acad. Roy. 1752. P. 255. said to consist of a multitude of minute threads mutually connected and placed as right angles to the plane of the bone, but so as to ra- diate from the centre to the circumference.* 4 he general fact of fibrous structure is confirmed by Bichat, who says, that with a little attention it is possible to recognize longitudinal fibres, which are intersected by others in an oblique or transverse direction, but without determinate order. In its purest form no blood-vessels are seen in it, nor can they be demonstrated even by the finest injec- tions. In the margins of those pieces of gristle, however, which are attached to the extremities of growing bones, blood-vessels of con- siderable size may often be seen, even without the aid of injec- tion. In young subjects a net-work of arteries* and veins, which is described by Hunter under the name of circuius articuli vascu- losus, may be demonstrated all round the margin of the cartilage at the line between the epiphysis and it. They terminate so ab- ruptly, however, that they cannot be traced into the substance of the latter. The most certain proofs, however, of the organic structure of this substance are the serous exudation which appears in the course of a few seconds on the cut surface of a piece of cartilage after a clean division by the knife; and that it becomes yellow during jaundice, and derives colour from substances found in the blood. Neither absorbents nor nerves have been found in it. The cellular texture said by Bichat to form the mould for the proper cartilaginous matter appears to be imaginary. The articular cartilages adhere to the epiphyses by one surface, which consists of short perpendicular fibres placed parallel to each other, and forming a structure like the pile of velvet. This is easily demonstrated by maceration first in nitric acid and then in water. The free or smooth surface is covered by a thin fold of sy- novial membrane, which comes off in pieces during maceration. The existence of this, though recently denied by Gordon, was ad- mitted by William Hunter, and may be demonstrated either by boiling, maceration, or the phenomena of inflammation, under which it is sensibly thickened. All other cartilages are enveloped, unless where they are attached to bones, by a fibrous membrane, which has been therefore named perichondrium. The existence of this may be demonstrated by dissection, and also by boiling, which makes it peel off in crisped flakes. The chemical properties ol cartilage have not been accurately