INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE IN I EVER. it occurred in connection with fever;* and in those of Godmanj and Villermet it was connected with chronic inflammation of tie gastric mucous membrane. In the intestinal canal it is invariably the consequence of some degree of inflammatoiy action.. § 11. Febrile Gastro-enteria.-Gastro-enteric inflammation has been considered above chiefly as a primary and idiopathic disorder. It is, however, not unfrequently observed as a concurrent symptom or effect of many disorders reputed primarily febiile. . is Mas observed long ago in ague and remittent fevers by Baglivi, bar- cone, Roederer, and Wagler, Stoll, Selle, and others; and more recently by Pinel, Broussais, Petit, and Serres, Andral, Breton- neau, and Trousseau. In continued fever it has also been seen by Andral, Bretonneau, and Trousseau, Louis, and Chomel, and by Cheyne, Reid, O’Brien, and Dr Bright in this country ; and it has been more or less fully described in different parts of Germany by Killiches, Frenzel, Grossheira, Ebel, Stannius, Kramer, and^ Les- SGI’. From the facts collected by these observers it results, that the action of fever has a peculiar tendency to affect the mucous sur- faces in general, and especially the tracheo-bronchial and gastro- enteric membranes. In the former it may produce the anatomical characters of unequivocal bronchial inflammation, proceeding not unfrequently to the first stage of peripneumony. Of the latter it affects more or less intensely different regions. In some it affects the gastric, in others the duodenal, in others the ileal or csecal, and in a few the colic mucous membrane. In most instances the membrane is reddened and vascular, thickened, and occasionally softened. (An- dral.) In many it assumes the form of red or brown patches, with or without ulceration. In many the mucous membrane is occu- pied by white conical elevations half a line or a line high, as broad as a lentil at base, but with depressed summits like the pustules of small-pox. These are rare in the jejunum and colon, but are fre- quent in the two lower fifths of the ileum. (Andral.) In the co- lon this punctuate inflammation appears in the form of broad coni- cal bodies, elevated, with pointed tops, of a cherry-red colour, and injection of the surrounding membrane. In a large proportion of cases, according to Bretonneau and Trousseau, the mucous follicles * Clinique Medicate, &c. Paris, 1823. t The Philadelphia Journal, 1825. X Archives Generales, Tome xiv. 1827. P.0’14.