GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 800 2d, The phenomena of compression of the preparation prove the existence of such a partition. The fluid granular content of the ex- panded portions is thus impelled hither and thither without any entrance of the same ever being effected between network of the vascular bundle, and any mutual yielding of the last; and by such pressure the glomerulus itself, yet always only in one mass, and not in individual vascular clusters. This proves unequivocally the presence of a medium, by which the network of the vascular mass is held together; and that this connecting bond must be a mem- brane enclosing the whole vascular bundle, and cannot be a cement holding one of the separate networks to another, is shown by this circumstance, that after drawing the glomerulus from the urinife- rous tubes, the vascular convolutions drop from each other, and present at the circumference of the mass disproportionately larger furrows than in the natural disposition of these parts. Lastly, by continued pressure the glomerulus is forced back from the uriniferous tubes, nay, may be expelled from them entirely; and in such circumstances it may be again evidently perceived, that the whole flask-shaped expansion is surrounded by one uninterrupted outline, on the outside of which the glomerulus is placed. Assuredly the uncovered disposition of the glomerulus in the ca- vity of the uriniferous tube would be contradicted, were it possible to prove that the plate-formed epithelium, which, as observed, covers part of the cavity, covers also the vascular mass. Though he al- lows that he cannot prove this unequivocally, yet he maintains that the rectification here suggested is probable. This he does in the following manner. The relation of the glomerulus to the expanded portion of the uriniferous canal appears to him most properly to be referable to the series of those formations which it is usual to designate as intro- versions ; by which nothing is stated as to their origin, but merely a certain form and kind of position of organic structures within each other is meant. In the case here treated, of such introver- sions, the same appears to take place at the thinnest and feeblest point of the wall of the shut end of the uriniferous tube. This is proved by the fact, that when, in consequence of strong pressure, the expanded portion bursts, this bursting regularly happens at the point where the proper tunic (basement membrane) of the urinife- rous duct coalesces with the glomerulus. The outline of the partition mentioned appears also unequally feebler than at the other points