1006 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. lungs, sometimes deep in their substance. They are also soft, and the blood is imperfectly coagulated. A curious appearance in lungs of this kind is that of red-spotting or maculation all over the surface and into their substance. When the pleura is removed by dissection, these spots are observed to lie beneath it on the sub- stance of the lungs, and are found to depend on blood poured into the bronchial tubes and extending to their ultimate terminations. Sprinkling or maculation with blood in the lungs from its pre- sence in the bronchial tubes and air-vesicles, I have in like man- ner observed in the lungs of persons who had committed suicide by cutting the throat, and in sheep slaughtered in the same manner. The lungs in this state are heavy, compact, and partially con- densed : and though they crepitate and contain air in certain points, yet they generally sink in water. In another set of cases, the patient is attacked with a fit of ex- treme breathlessness, amounting to orthopnoea, in which the lips, nose, and cheeks are blue or violet-coloured, and by coughing he brings up at length frothy mucus, at first streaked, then mixed with blood. This may continue for two, three, or eight days, when the urgent symptoms subside, and the bloody expectoration disap- pears. This is repeated several times at intervals more or less re- mote. The fits however are less violent, though longer continued. At length the individual has fewer and less distinct intervals of relief. Breathlessness is either constant, or very nearly so. Cough continues, with expectoration of bloody mucus, and blood, some- times in considerable quantity. When death ensues, the follow- ing is the state of the lungs. Masses of variable size, but sometimes very considerable, that is, as large as a walnut or small pippin, dark-brown, firm and solid, are found dispersed through the lungs. These masses are solid, granular, and friable, and, though firm, may be broken between the fingers. These also sink in water. When examined carefully, it is easy to see that they are blood extravasated into the filamento- cellular tissue of the lungs. The vessels ai'e closed; the bronchial tubes obliterated, at least not permeable to air. Little of the lungs, indeed, is left in their clastic compressible crepitating condition. The heart is found either in a state of great hypertrophy, or with the mitral valve ossified, and its aperture greatly contracted. In some instances, though less numerous, the same state is found when the aortic valves are ossified, and the aortic aperture is closed.