35 FILAMENTOUS OR CELLULAR TISSUE. Section II. The filamentous tissue is liable to inflammation, acute and chro- nic, circumscribed, and with exudation of lymph, or diffusive and spreading, generally without this exudation, and with the produc- tion of purulent matter ; to induration ; to hemorrhage ; to serous infiltration; to aerial distension; and to new growths. 1. Inflammation of the subcutaneous tissue when circumscribed constitutes phlegmon, a name applied rather in reference to our observation of it near the surface of the body, than with a view to the natural relation between an organized texture and its patholo- gical processes. In other situations, as it is seldom recognized before it has pass- ed to the stage of suppuration, inflammation of cellular tissue is generally implied in those abscesses or collections of purulent mat- ter, (apostemata, abscess us), acute or chronic, which frequently form in the human body. Various facts, nevertheless, show that inflammation of the fila- mentous tissue is a process consisting of several stages. At first the vessels become distended with blood, which moves rather slow- ly and is accompanied with a throbbing or beating sensation. This is attended with more or less swelling of the part, heat, and pain; and if it be near the surface, with redness. In the second place, the distended and overloaded state of the vessels never continues long without giving rise to more or less change in the blood in the part Serum is poured out into the cells, often sero-albuminous fluid; sometimes blood even is extravasated. The sero-albuminous fluid is separated into lymph and serum. The former gives rise to the hardness usually observed. Thirdly, if the process con- tinue, the secretion of sero-albuminous fluid is followed by that of purulent matter ; and sometimes the serum first effused appears to be afterwards converted into purulent matter. This purulent matter is usually contained within a body of lymph more or less regular; and which forms a sort of boundai’y between it and the sound or uninflamed part of the tissue. If this boundary be complete so as to surround and inclose the purulent matter, it is denominated a cyst. This may take place either in acute or in chronic inflammation. After the matter has been deposited in the manner now described, it evinces a tendency to proceed towards the nearest surface. This may be either the skin or any of the mucous membranes. At first