178 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. of a split pea, without elevation, but presenting, when closely ex- amined, a cluster of minute vessels proceeding from a circumfe- rence to a point, in the asteroid form. In both cases they were liable to become red and uneasy on exposure to external heat, during blushing, and on any excited state of the circulation. When pressed, the vessels seemed to be for one moment emptied and then to be immediately filled, giving the part a deeper red colour than before. In the instance, in which I saw the tumour on the gum, (pcirulis aneurysmatica,) the form of the disease was greatly more distinct. It appeared in the form of a tumour of the size of a large pea, situated in the gum of the upper jaw. It pulsated strongly and distinctly, and was the seat of a disagreeable sensa- tion of heat and throbbing. When situate on the mucous surfaces, these tumours are liable to attacks of hemorrhage ; and occasion- ally this accident takes place in those of the skin. When it occurs on the surface of the body, its covering is so thin as to appear destitute of the usual corion. The pulsation in the tumour is increased by all those causes which accelerate the action of the heart.* * * § The arterial disease found often affecting the branches of the temporal, posterior aural, and occipital arteries, as described by Mr Maclure, Mr Maclachlan, Mr Syme, and M. Lallemand, is manifestly the same affection as that already noticed under the head of arterial varix and cirsoid aneurism. The arteries are dilated, tortuous, and serpentine ; the tunics of the vessels are thin, flaccid and feeble, and pulsate strongly; while occasionally after death these vessels are observed, like veins, to have undergone the suppurative inflammation.! 6. Osteo-aneurism. Not dissimilar to the anastomotic aneurism is a species of throbbing tumour observed by Pearson,! and fully described by Scarpa.§ In the latter instance a pulsating tumour, which had gradually attained the size of the fist, was formed in the substance of the anterior part of the tibia, beneath the periosteum, which had become thick and fleshy, and formed a sort of contain- ing membrane. Its inner surface was villous and irregularly * For further details on this subject the reader may consult Warren on Tumours, section viii. Boston, 1837. f Breschet, Memoires de l’Academie, Tome III. p. 161. + Medical Communications, Vol. II. p. 95 and 100. § A Treatise on the Anatomy, Pathology, and Surgical Treatment of Aneurism. By Antonio Scarpa. Edinburgh, 1808, Case x. p. 439.