MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—HEMORRHAGE. 1001 of blood, and dispersed through the lungs are similar clots, brown- ish-coloured, all of which may be traced to divisions of the pulmo- nary artery. This disease is sometimes chronic in its course, and may take ten or twelve months before it renders the lungs unable to perform their functions. But in one case it terminated in about seven or eight weeks. The occurrence of these clots of blood within the branches of the pulmonary artery has been noticed by Cruveilhier,* M. Baron,f Mr James Paget,I and Dr Dubini.§ It does not appear that in all the cases recorded by these observers, there was proof that the circumstance was preceded by inflammation in any veins of the extremities, or the formation of clots within their channels. In several of the cases, the obstruction came on to all appearance spontaneously, and without indications of previous disease. In the case given by Cruveilhier, the obstruction was connected with ute- rine phlebitis. But Mr Paget thinks that there is between these cases and those which he records a great difference. The cases mentioned he thinks, connected either with pulmonary apoplexy, especially if dependent on disease of the heart, or with pneumonia, or with the presence of enkephaloid matter in the blood, or with that of urea in the blood, as in the case of granular disease of the kidney, in which he finds these deposits to be frequent. It appears, therefore, that the formation of these deposits depends on several different causes, all however agreeing in some morbid state of the blood or the veins. § 9. Pneumonorrhagia. Hemorrhage from the Lungs. Discharge of blood by coughing occurs under two forms. One is that of bronchial hemorrhage, sometimes copious, but often in small quantity. The other is that of pulmonary hemorrhage, which may be small m quantity, but is generally very copious. Of the former sufficient notice has already been taken under the head of diseases of the bronchial membrane. The latter is to be considered in this place. * Anatomie Pathologique, Livraison xi 2 STS "r li.C7U“°" * *»* n™ I'-Artcre Putaon- £, y C’ Bnr0"’ Areh”“ «««h. de Medecinc, T. xlvii. p. 6. F B C°S°^'“Seif™ 7 P"lm0n“y B, James Pagol, r.K. L;S. and Medico-Ohmirgical Transactions, Vol.xkvii n ibo t ondon ibjj Additional Observations on Obstructions of ih r> ,* ' ’ . ° lon> Paget F R r S Morlioo r-v , ‘ °f tho Pulmonary Arteries. J5y James iff Medlco-Chirargical Trehsactions, Vol. xxviii. M2. London, § Annaii Universal]' di Medicina di Febrnio. 1845.