GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 896 basis of the gland, is the second tissue, generally of an orange co- lour, in the form of minute granules or atoms, which consist of the terminal ends of biliary ducts, or what have been named acini. It is not easy to say whether single acini, or groups and clusters of acini, thus form these orange-coloured interposed granules. The question is of little moment. The main fact, which it is important to know and remember, is that this orange-coloured matter is sur- rounded by or enclosed in the vascular network, as it were; that it is the proper granular or secreting part of the liver; and that it is formed by the superior or terminal ends of the biliary pori. This matter is much less abundant, and occupies much less space of the gland, though disseminated through its entire substance. The third substance is white or gray, and consists of filamentous tissue, which encloses the vessels on the one hand, and the bile- ducts on the other, throughout the whole gland, connecting all to- gether in one body. This is supposed by some to be a prolonga- tion or process from the capsule of Glisson, and thence to be con- tinued along the vessels through the parenchyma of the gland. There is no doubt that this hepatic cellular tissue is connected with the capsule of Glisson, and may be traced from it; but it is of little moment whether we admit that it is a prolongation of that capsule or not. This third substance is easily known by the gray or whit- ish intersecting lines which it forms all through the liver. Now, of the three elementary tissues thus constituting the liver, it is the second, viz. the orange-coloured granular substance, which is primarily affected in kirrhosis. This affection consists in en- largement and induration of the granular bodies, until they attain the size, shape, and general appearance of kirrhotic granulations or nodules; in short, are hypertrophied. That this is the fact, I conceive is proved, first by their appearance in complete states of kirrhosis ; and, secondly, by the other phenomena which have been mentioned in the general description. The appearance of granu- lations of different sizes, from pin-heads up to the volume of peas or hazel-nuts, can be produced only by the growth and enlarge- ment of the original granular bodies of the liver. These bodies are of different sizes, because necessarily the morbid process com- mences in some granules, before others are affected; and those m which it first commences, must be, and are largest. Secondly, these bodies contain the colouring matter and fatty matter of the bile, indeed the parts that cannot escape by filtration ; and this circum-