TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. OVo purulent matter and a little blood, and completely lusted. Thk was presented to me at my visit; and though the symptoms weic still urgent and by no means diminished, I inferred now that there was every prospect that the patient would get rid of his disease. In this expectation I was not disappointed. At first after the ejection of the screw-nail, the cough seemed to be aggravated ; and expectoration did not immediately diminish in quantity. The pa- tient also suffered from abdominal pains, which depended on a smal umbilical hernia, which was protruded during the fits of coughing. Eventually, however, the cough abated; the expectoration gradually diminished, and at length ceased ; the respiration fell to 26, 24, 20 ; the pulse came down to 80 ; the appetite, which had not been in this attack bad, was active; and flesh and strength returned in the course of about four or five weeks. The surface of the mammary region was still dull; and little respiration was heard ; but the chest was moving a little ; and the patient appeared to suffer no inconvenience. In July he again went to a country situation, and residing there for several weeks, returned home strong and free from any apparent complaint. When the screw nail was coughed up by this child, it became a point of importance to ascertain when and how it had been intro- duced into the larynx and trachea. On these points, however, all enquiry was unavailing. One thing only was certain, that the nail must have been in the right bronchus since April 1843, probably at a date previous to that time. It must, therefore, have continued there at least 13 months, probably nearer 14 or 15 months. This boy has since that time remained in good health, and free from any bronchial or pectoral ailment. The mammary region is still flatter and more depressed on the right side than on the left, and emits a sound a little dull; but respiration is performed faintly ; and it is clear that the lower part of the right lung is tolerably good. In this case I think, that it is quite impossible to doubt, that the screw nail had been lodged in the right bronchus ; that its presence there had caused first, inflammation of the whole of the upper bronchial tubes ; then inflammation of the substance of the lung in a certain degree; and at the same time pleuritic inflammation. I have no doubt that the whole upper and middle lobes are adher- ing by their pleura to the pleura costa,lis. rp