INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—FOLLICULAR DISEASE. 627 in the morning generally more fatigued and exhausted than at night. Yet there are no very conspicuous or prominent symp- toms which denote derangement or disorder of a particular texture or region. This state of matters may proceed for 8, 10, or 12 days. The bowels are then observed to be irregular; sometimes constipated; more frequently slightly loose. In a few cases uneasi- ness is observed or felt in the umbilical or the right iliac region, or in both. The umbilical region may be somewhat distended; and beneath the fingers air is felt moving in that region, or in the right iliac. Feverishness continues, and is usually aggravated in the latter part of the day and at or during night. At length pain is felt in the belly, generally about the right iliac region or the umbilical; and this may increase to symptoms of enteritis or peritonitis. Diar- rhoea stops; vomiting takes place; and the bowels are obstinately bound, while the abdomen is swelled, painful, and tympanitic. The disease usually under these circumstances terminates fatal- ly ; and the intestinal mucous membrane and follicles are found in the following state. Much viscid mucus adheres to the villous membrane, and more especially to the aggregated patches. When this is removed, the patches are observed elevated, roughened, and indurated in various degrees. In some the elevation is moderate; in others it is great and perceptible, giving them the aspect of pustular eminences, or rendering them like buttons on the villous membrane. Usually this considerable elevation depends on thickening and death of the follicular cellular tissue, which is hard, friable, and of a buff or yellow colour. In certain points the mucous membrane is castoff, disclosing small ulcers; the base of which is sometimes the yellow thick dead tissue already mentioned, sometimes the muscular and peritoneal coat. These ulcers evidently take place in individual follicles; but by two or more coalescing, two or more small ulcers may be converted into one large one. The adjoining intestinal membrane is occasionally but not always thickened; and sometimes vessels are seen traversing it to the patch or patches most thickened. The mesenteric ganglions opposite are enlarged in various degrees and to different extent. At some points a whole cluster of glands enlarged is presented ; at others, two or three are enlarged but se- parate. In extreme cases albuminous exudation covers the peritoneum corresponding to the patches or the ulcers; and the peritoneum has in certain cases given way previous to death, allowing the par-