344 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. those resulting from other tumours developed in the substance or on the surface of the brain. Hebetude of the intellectual faculties, loss of memory, epileptic seizures frequently recurring, a fatuous and vacant expression of countenance, sometimes blindness or squinting, then stupor and palsy, and finally death, are the ordinary consequences of the presence of this deposit. The same cholesterine deposit in scales is occasionally found on the spinal chord. rj. Cartilaginous induration ; Scirrhns; (Chondroma.) This is probably to be regarded either as a variety of the first kind, or as intimately connected with it. Unhappily the term scirrhus has been so vaguely applied to every kind of tumour, if a little hard, that no precise idea is communicated by it. In the brain especially all authors have comprehended, under this general appellation, every change of texture which was harder than that of the surround- ing organ, without much regard to the anatomical characters of the new substance. Hence we find all the instances already adduced recorded as examples of scirrhus, though in many of them no proof of this structure is given, and in none is there any other proof than the greater consistence of the part. Without attempting to define the character of scirrhus when oc- curring in the brain, I refer to the present head those instances of morbid structure in which, with hardness approaching to that of cartilage, there is a fibrous arrangement, and more or less tendency to cancerous ulceration. Even with this limitation it may be doubt- ed whether this disease occurs primarily in the cerebral substance. Meanwhile, however, for want of more satisfactory elements in the arrangement of the organic changes incident to the brain, to this head may be referred the following examples:— M. Jean Cmveilhier, Essai sur l’Anatomie Pathologique, Tome ii. p. 80. Paris, 1816.—A woman of 40 was brought to the Hotel-Dieu in a state of idiocy, in which she was stated to have been for six months after severe mental distress. She lived a month without much sign of intellect, became comatose and died. In the right he- misphere, beneath the mesolobe, corresponding to the striated body on the outside, and projecting into both ventricles, was found a hard tumour of a triangular shape, the posterior angle elongated, the right anterior angle advancing to the anterior extremity of the right lobe. It consisted of two sorts of structure;—one in the centre, as large as a pigeon’s egg, had the consistence of fibro-cartilage, and resembled fibrous substances proceeding to the cartilaginous state; the other exterior, grayish, was confounded "it the cerebral substance from which it appeared to be formed. L. N. llostan, Recherches sur une Maladie encore peu connue. Paris, 18 JO. I. • Observ. 20ieme. 1820 —A woman of 62 had during the course of life been derange several times, during which she committed extravagant acts, though rare and of short duration. She had now constant headach, with occasional raving, giddiness, and vo