GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1044 years, who was attacked suddenly, while at work, with coma, cy- anosis, and great feebleness. On the third day death followed. The heart was fat, flabby, and rather larger than usual, and the pericardium contained about one ounce of dirty serum. The right auricle and ventricle were of normal size, and the valves were healthy. The lining membrane was of a deep violet or wine-co- loured red. The left ventricle being opened, an abscess was ob- served situate near the apex, of an irregular shape, being most pointed towards the apex, from which it was separated by two or three lines of sound structure. Above it projected into the cavity of the ventricle, with which it communicated by a small fissure. The interposed space was one line thick, and appeared to consist of thickened endocardium. The cavity of the abscess contained bloody purulent-looking fluid. Its lining membrane was of a light red colour, and was granular in appearance. The surrounding muscular tissue was darker than usual, and fibrinous clots were infiltrated. The coronary arteries were much ossified.* In a female of 35, who had been suffering for some time under rheumatism of the right knee, I found, with the cribriform state of the aortic valves, in the walls of the auricles near the origin of the aorta, a cavity containing purulent matter, and extending into the attached margin of the semilunar valves. This was caused by in- flammation of the muscular part of the auricles. These cases merely confirm the truth of the general conclusions formerly established regarding this lesion. § 2. Endocarditis et Endocardostia Valvularum. Indura- tio et in os Conversio. Arctatio Valvularum.—The lining membrane of the heart (Endocardium) is liable to inflammation, sometimes idiopathically, sometimes in consequence of rheuma- tism. The effect of this is, to render the folds, especially which form the mitral valve and sometimes those of the semilunar valves, thick, irregularly tuberculated with small hard eminences, inflexible, shrivelled, and contracted. At first albumen appears to be deposited in the interstices of the membranous folds; then the folds are shrivelled and thickened and indurated; the tendinous chords at the same time are shrivelled, thickened, and indurated; and, gradually, the three valvular folds, by the inflammatory action continuing both at their apices and their base, produce disorgani- * Observations on the Pathology of Abscess of the Heart, with a Case. By J. II. Stallard, Esq. &c. Provincial Transactions, Vol. xv. London, 1847.