GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 254 nected with the pia mater; but individual portions of vascular membrane or choroid plexus, all continuous, are found in every division of the figurate surface of the brain. This membrane sus- tains the vessels going to and issuing from the cerebral substance. Between the two surfaces now described is placed the proper matter of the brain, which in different regions of the organ is ar- ranged differently. The intimate arrangement peculiar to indivi- dual parts, and the manner in which the arrangement of each is mutually connected, are now to become the object of examination. The convoluted surface first claims attention. The colour of this is well known to be of an ash-gray, passing in certain parts to pale brown. In whatever part the substance of the convolutions be examined, they never present any appearance of linear or fibrous arrangement. I have often examined the convoluted substance of the human brain after induration in alcohol and dilute nitric acid; and I never could recognize the distinct fibrous disposition ob- served in other parts of the organ. A portion of brain, hardened in the manner now mentioned, breaks with a small conchoidal frac- ture, and an uneven granular subordinate surface. The surface thus exposed presents, however, a very determinate aspect, which it is easy to recognize after repeated trials. It is ash-gray and without lustre. It is rough, and consists, when minutely examined, of roundish grains aggregated together. The direction of the frac- ture is more at right angles to the convoluted surface than obliquely or parallel to it. In some instances even it is possible to recognize depressed marks perpendicular to the surface, sending off angu- larly like branches smaller depressed marks, meeting similar rami- fications from other perpendicular depressions. I have often attempted to determine, by breaking portions of brain in every direction, whether this appearance is uniform ; but I cannot say that I have obtained satisfactory proof of the point. I am not unaware that Reil represents the intimate structure of the convolutions to be distinctly fibrous. So far as I understand his description, I admit the fact of the conchoidal fracture which I have often verified ; but I am not prepared to allow that this arises, as lie imagines, from the fibrous matter being arranged in plates or "leaves, which are folded and rolled together.* Upon the whole, the convoluted substance I regard as chiefly granular, but so ar- ranged as to be more frangible in the direction perpendicular to ’ Arcliiv. fiir die Pliysiologie neunter Band, p. 145.