MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—PNEUMONIA. 987 other points regarding chronic forms of the disease shall be im- mediately considered. Pneumonia has been distinguished by practical authors and no- sologists into several varieties, according to certain modifying cir- cumstances. The following list comprehends the most important, 1. Hemorrhagic peripneumony ; 2. The spurious or bastard Peri- pneumony (Peripneumony Notha) ; 3. The chronic, slow, or latent {Pneumonia Chronica) ,• 4. The gastric or bilious {Pneumonia gas- trica vel Pneumonia bihosa) ; 5. The nervous or Typhoid Pneu- monia {Pneumonia Nervosa et Typhodes); and 6. The malignant, pestilential, or gangrenous {Pneumonia septica vel Pneumonia ma- ligna) gangraena pulmonum. Haemorrhagic peripneumony (Pneumonia Hcemorrhagica.) Cullen observed, that pneumonia had a termination peculiar to itself, namely, the effusion of a quantity of blood into the cellular texture, (*. e. the filamentous or parenchymatous tissue) of the lungs, which soon interrupting the circulation of the blood through these oigans pioduces fatal suffocation. In some instances, how- ever, this extravasation of blood does not produce immediate suffo- cation. These appear to be principally when the effusion takes place in limited and isolated points, for instance, forming small amorphous masses about the size of a filbert or walnut in the lower lobes of one or both lungs. The portions of lung thus the seat of bloody extravasation become firm, resisting, uncrepitating, dark- coloured and granular in structure. The boundaries are generally distinctly circumscribed, and the difference between them and the surrounding portion of lung is distinctly marked. When near the surface of the lung they are both felt and seen through the pleura by the deeper brown colour over them, by their firmness and soli- dity, by not collapsing while the rest of the lung collapses, and by breaking down instead of collapsing when they are compressed. In these dark-brown, hard, granular masses, the blood-vessels and t ie bronchial tubes and vesicles are completely obliterated, and their canals closed, and the membrane of the contiguous bronchial tubes is dark brown, thick, and friable. The change, indicated by the presence of these masses in the lung, which had originally been described by Baillie under the name of the brown tubercle of the lungs, was afterwards made the subject of particular attention by Laennec, under the denomina- tl°n 0f Pul™>nary apoplexy. The chief objection to the term is that