SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE—SYNOVIAL RHEUMATISM. 753 the membrane. But whatever be the matter which it contains, the lymph so deposited renders the surface of the membrane rough; limits and circumscribes the mobility of the joint; and, in conse- quence of the motion to which it is subjected, it becomes hard and polished like porcelain or ground ivory; and in this state forms a sort of imperfect substitute for the synovial membrane. Some have asserted that in this disease the synovial membrane is removed by absorption and ulceration, and the cartilages are ul- cerated. 'Ibis may occur in extreme cases. But it is not neces- sary to the disease or its effects; and the most common result is li- mited mobility of the joint with the eburneoid deposit or degenera- tion. It is for this reason that the joint so incrusted has been said by foreign authors to be affected with itsure or friction wearing. The margins of the articular surfaces, at the attachment of the membranes, present deposits of earthy matter irregularly nodulated, or tuberculated, which are usually termed exostoses. They are com- monly swellings consisting of phosphate and carbonate of lime. Occasionally the periosteum, near the articular extremities in this disease becomes thickened and penetrated with the same material. On the tendency of this form of rheumatism to affect internal organs, and thereby to influence the duration of life, different opi- nions are entertained by different authors. In some instances, in- dividuals have lived long with it; in other instances it has suddenly proved fatal by affecting the brain. In all instances it impairs health, and is an indication of feeble digestion, imperfect assimila- tion, and an unsound state of the circulating fluid. The nature of this malady is not well known. Some call it arti- cular, capsular, and synovial rheumatism ; others refer it to the head of gout; others again term it rheumatic gout. In extreme cases, 1 bee" J1"0™*?P™dure ankylosis of aU the joints; and in the Museum of the College of Surgeons of Dublin is preserved the Sr was in this “ « On the circumstances acting as causes of this disease the onin “ testimony of physicians are not less discordant than on its nature. By some it is represented as taking place chief!, in ih in whom the brain is overworked, and who are much a causes of mental anxiety. This mav be Te f , exPosed to cases. But the disease is observed in those in w hom tl T™ • T f or not at all subjected to exertion ; and ^ 3 B