106 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. (Hunter and Home.)* This shows that in these circumstances its inflammation is not attended with the bad effects which result in the human subject. 12. Obstruction in the cavity of arteries. Occlusio arteriarum; op- pilatio arteriarum. The deposits and growths already mentioned, whether tubercular or wart-like, or atheromatous, steatomatous, or calcareous, all tend to diminish more or less the calibre of the ar- tery, and to cause more or less obstruction to the motion of the blood. It is true that soon after deposits of any of these growths have taken place, there appears at their site to be a sort of bulging of the arterial tube, or a dilatation general or partial; and, in point of fact, this often takes place with at the same time a certain degree or dilatation internally. This appears to be the result of the im- pediment which the blood encounters in passing over diseased por- tions of an arterial tube ; for as the blood meets greater resistance, it is, especially in the aorta, propelled with greater force; and in almost the whole of these cases in which the interior of the aorta is thus diseased, the left ventricle of the heart is more or less hy- pertrophied. It also happens, however, that these new growths may by their number and size diminish in a greater or less degree the calibre of the arterial cylinder. Thus in the case recorded by Stentzel, the atheromatous or steatomatous tumour had greatly contracted the dimensions of the canal of the aorta.f In a case given by the elder Meckel, the diameter of the aorta in an aged female was not more than eight lines, from a similar cause. J Sandifort mentions the case of a man in whom a similar deposition in the interior of the aorta had contracted much the calibre of the artery. Stoerck states that in inspecting the body of a female, aged 64, who had long la- boured under difficult breathing and palpitation of the heart on making any exertion, and who died in syncope, he found the arch of the aorta completely bony, and the tunics thickened, and the canal of the artery so small that it would not admit the little finger. This form of obstruction is generally partial. In the progress of those changes which take place in aneurism, the calibre of an artery may be so much contracted, and its interior * Transactions of a Society for improving Medical and Chirurgieal Knowledge, A ol. I, p. 144. f Chris. Gottfr. Stentzel dc Steatomatibus Aortic. Wittcmbergaj, 1732. t Haller, Dissert. Medico Practicte, Tom. ii. 3