GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. ■j- Ratio Medendi, Partis iii. Vol. iii. Sectionis 4. B40 the following terms. “ Perlustrata interna facie intestini cseci atque coli, vidimus tunicam villosam alibi adbaerentem, et alibi derasam, ibidemque tunicam vasculosam lividam quasi sanguine plenam, mesenterium rubescens vasis distinctis plenissimura.”* Dr John Hunter, on the contrary, who states that he never saw abrasion or mortification of the villous coat, is inclined to think, that in the dissections mentioned by Pringle, the black colour aris- ing from extravasated blood was mistaken for gangrene. Though it is impossible to doubt that this mistake has been often committed in describing the necroscopic changes of the gastro-enteric mem- brane, it must not be forgotten that inflammation occasionally ter- minates in mortification, and that instances of this are not unusual in the tropical form of the disease especially. The general fact of inflammation is further confirmed by Maximilian Stoll, who de- scribes the cmcum, colon, especially its transverse arch, and rec- tum, in persons cut off by acute dysentery, as swelled, thickened, hard, and fleshy, of a leaden or dull red colour, the mucous mem- brane of a foul or dingy red tint with blood, or of a deep rank green tinge removable neither by water nor the sponge,—an ap- peai’ance indicating the commencement of elementary decompo- sition.f Occasionally dysentery prevails during summer and autumn in this country; and both in previous seasons and in the summer of 1843, we had opportunities of observing its effects on the intestinal coats. In several cases which I examined, the following were the appearances. The whole tract of the colon was thick, massive, and heavy, to- tally different from the usual membranous appearance of that bowel. This thickness was partly in the mucous membrane and partly in the submucous cellular tissue. The mucous membrane was thick, of a reddish colour, firm, and more solid than in the normal state, which was shown by the peculiar mode in which it was cut. Its surface was covered with much viscid, thick adherent mucus, which was indeed partly albuminous. The section showed that it was thickened, apparently from effusion of lymph into its interstitial tissue, or from the great congestion of the vessels; the colour was also of a deeper fawn red here than natural. The calibre of the bowel was much contracted, the size and capacity of the colon being not so large as that of the ileum. * Selecta Diarii Nosocomii Ilafniensis, Tom. ii. 1786. P. 223.