MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 665 blood extravasated into its cavity, but also from the vessels of the small intestines, especially those of the ileum.* This inference is confirmed by several dissections of Valsalva and Morgagni,f w o in haematemesis and intestinal hemorrhage found the gastro-enteiic mucous membrane always entire, and its vessels moie 01 less in- jected. From an extensive collection of cases, Portal derives conclusions still more distinct. This anatomist shows, ls£, that the black mat- ter discharged by vomit and by stool, or by vomiting only, is ge- nuine blood, which is seen to ooze after death from the blood-ves- sels of the stomach and intestines; 2d, that this oozing or trans- udation takes place from the gastric, duodenal, and mesentei ic ar- terial extremities into the cavity of the stomach or intestines, sepa- rately or at once, more frequently into the stomach only, in conse- quence of certain arterial branches receiving more blood than the corresponding veins return; and, 3dig, though compression of the branches of the portal vein may cause this extravasation, the blood is not effused from the vasa brevia, in which it flows in an opposite direction.]; Similar are the views of Abernethy, who states that in the bodies of several persons who died under attacks of this disease, he found cl the villous coat of the alimentary canal highly inflamed, swollen, and pulpy. Bloody specks were observed in various parts; and sphacelation had actually taken place in one instance. The liver was healthy in some cases and diseased in others.” Pie concludes, therefore, that the diseases termed haematemesis and melcena arise from “ violent disorder, and consequent diseased secretion of the internal coat of the bowels; and that the blood discharged does not flow from any single vessel, but from the various points of the diseased surface.”§ From the same source originates the cocoa- coloured fluid observed by Baillie in fatal cases of haematemesis. || It may therefore be inferred, that the blood discharged in this disease issues from the loaded capillary vessels of the gastric, duo- denal, and ileal mucous membrane without breach of surface ; and as it is anatomically impossible to distinguish these vessels into ar- * Medicime Rationalis Systematica;, pars ii. sect. i. chap. iii. § 17. + Epist. xxix. 10 ; xxxi. 23 ; xxxvi. 11. t Memoires sur la Nature et le Traitement de Plusicurs Maladies, Par Antoine Portal, Tom. ii. Paris, 1800. P.108. § On the Constitutional Origin and Treatment, &c. p. 30. London, 1811. || Lectures and Observations on Medicine. 3