BONE. 431 order of lamella, and the same canals in the flat bones proceeding from the parallel of the surface. These tubules he describes as crowded and passing across from one lamella to the next. He also mentions the oblong corpuscula, which have been discovered by Purkinje to be everywhere dispersed through their texture. In many circumstances,- the observations of Muller and Mies- cher agree. Both admit the existence of lamella, of corpuscula, and of canaliculi or tubular canals, the pores of Havers. The lamella, says Muller, are so translucent, that, when laid on written paper, the characters may be easily read through them. When these lamellae are examined under the lens on a dark ground, it is seen that the whiteness of bones depends on the corpuscula, and that their intermediate substance is entirely transparent. Lamina or lamella are not observed in the bones of infants. But they are distinctly seen in the compact tissue of the cylindrical bones of adults, in which they form the external surface or com- pact tissue. Near the medullary canal, where the number of in- tersecting canaliculi increases, they gradually, and at length com- pletely vanish. The thickness of these lamina is estimated by Deutsch at ^yth part of an inch. This Miescher thinks the result of typographical error, and he makes them ?|.50th part of an English inch, or -0027 of one line. In the thigh-bone of the ox, in which the lamina may be separated into lamella much more easily and more distinctly than in human bones, the component lamella appeared as it were to be separated or united by fibres interposed; and in parts where the lamella were most closely united, Miescher observed slender, ( tapering fibrilla following the longitudinal direction, of a brown colour, and firm, which, throughout, penetrated the lamina, and which he regards as certainly the same with the nails or claviculi of Gagliardi, and the fibres described, in 1818, by Medici. The lamellae may be divided by needles into several very slender foliola or leaflets. The canaliculi are found in all the compact osseous tissue, and, in general, their direction follows that of the process of ossification I in the foetus. Thus, in the cylindrical bones, they proceed from the middle of the shaft to the articular extremities;' and in the frontal and parietal bones, from the centre to the circumference. The interior of these canals is cylindrical, and it is smallest in ' those near the surface ; conversely, near the medullary canal, they I