ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 81 tion is supplied from the spermatics, the lumbar, and in some in- stances the mesocolic artery. The same arrangement nearly is observed with regard to the veins. Few textures are more liberally supplied with nerves than arte- ries are. Almost every considerable trunk or vessel is surrounded with numerous plexiform filaments of nerves, many of which may be traced into the tissue of the artery. The anterior part of the arch of the aorta is abundantly supplied with branches from the superficial cardiac nerves, which Haller was unable to trace beyond the artery. The coeliac, the mesenteric, and the mesocolic arteries are invested with numerous plexiform nervous filaments derived from the large semilunar ganglion of the splanchnic nerve. The renal arteries in like manner are surrounded with numerous twigs of the renal plexus. And each of the intercostal arteries at its origin receives nervous threads from the intercostal nerves. In the face the branches of the fifth pair may often be traced enveloping the arteries. This arrangement, which is observed chiefly in the blood-vessels going to the internal organs, led Bichat to announce it as a general fact, that the arteries derived their nerves almost exclusively from the ganglions, and the gangliar nerves.* The inference does nob rest upon strict observation, and evidently owes its birth to the hypothetical opinions of this ingenious physiologist. All the arteries going to the extremities, the axillary, and iliac, and their branches, receive nerves from the neighbouring nervous trunks, which are formed chiefly from cerebral or spinal nerves, and have no immediate connection with the system of the ganglions. In the internal carotid and the vertebral arteries, and their branches, nerves cannot be distinctly traced.f Organized in the manner now described, it is requisite to take a short view of the anatomical connections of the arterial system, or to consider it in its origin, its course, and its termination. The arterial system of the animal body may be viewed as one large trunk divided into several branches, which again are subdi- \ided and ramified to a degree of minuteness which exceeds all calculation. It is requisite, therefore, to consider the origin, ls£, Of the aorta, the large trunk ; 2d, Of the branches which arise from it; and, 3dly, Of the small vessels into which these are divided. Le grand arbre a sang rouge ou l’arteriel, est presque exelusivcment cmbrassd par la premiere classe des nerves.”—Anatomie General, Tom. I. p. 302. •f- H. A. Wrisberg I)e Nervis Artcrias Venasquc comitantibus, Tome III.