GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 172 The general accuracy of this description has been since confirmed by the researches of Paul Farnese and Moreschi. The latter espe- cially has shown, Is#, That the glans consists of arteries and a very great number of minute veins, which pour their blood into the cu- taneous dorsal vein ; 2d, That the urethra, and especially its poste- rior part, may in like manner be shown to consist of numerous minute veins, which terminate in a posterior branch of the dorsal vein, and communicate with the veins of the bulbous portion of the urethra; and 3d, That in the cavernous bodies, though also re- ceiving blood-vessels, these are much less numerous, and are chiefly derived from the urethral vessels.* The same arrangement was recognized by Cuvier in the penis of the elephant, and by Tiedemann in that of the horse. Upon the whole, the facts collected by different anatomists on this subject furnish the following results. If the arteries, on the one hand, be injected, thpy are found to terminate in very fine ramifications, the disposition of which is ex- actly the same as in other parts. If, on the other, the veins be injected, it is easy to perceive the two following circumstances. Is#, That they are much dilated at their origin, that is, that the venous rcidicidce are really more dilated than might be anticipated from the other characters of these vessels. 2d, That the tubular dilatations to which they are accessory, form very numerous inos- culations or anastomoses, precisely as the capillary system of which they constitute a part. The effect of this arrangement is to give these vessels the appearance of being penetrated with sieve-like openings, which makes them resemble areolce, or interlaminar spaces mutually communicating. As the whole difference, therefore, be- tween the capillary vessels of this and other parts of the human frame, consists in the minute veins (radiculce venoscB) being dilated or distended in a peculiar manner, M. Beclard concludes, that the erectile tissue of the cavernous body consists simply of minute ar- teries and dilatable veins interwoven in the manner of capillary nets. These distended venous cavities are indeed so remote from being cells, that they arc truly continuous with veins, the inner membrane of which may be easily recognised among them.f * Common tarium de Urethra; Corporis Glandisque Structura 6to Tdus Decembris 1810 detecta Alexandri Moreschi, Eq. Coron. Ferrere in Ticinensi primum, turn Bo- noniensi Archigymnasio, Anatomes Professoris. Mediolani, 1817. f Additions, p. 119.