484 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY tion. Its influence, however, in leaving more or less deformity of the skeleton must have at all times attracted notice. Deformed dwarfs have been known in all ages. The gibbi, the vari, and the valgi of the Romans must have been more or less rachitic in infancy. From this cause the deformity of Thersites might have originated. It is also to be remarked, that Fabricius Hildanus delineates the serpentine lateral curvature of the spine in a girl of 8, whose bones were soft as wax,* which could be produced by no other cause save rickety softness. When the disease first attracted notice, and the chemical con- stitution of bone was understood, it was believed that rickets con- sisted merely in the late deposition of phosphate of lime. Of this theory the defect is its simplicity. Though the earthy matter is doubtless very deficient, this is not the sole change in the rachitic skeleton. The bone is light, spongy, and cellular. The close or compact structure is said to disappear. The truth is, that it is not yet formed.. The interior of the bone is homogeneous like that of a foetal bone, without distinct medullary cavity, without cancellated structure, and without compact bone; but presenting the loose cellular or areolar arrangement observed at that period of life. The interstitial cells are filled with brownish jelly-like substance,! which appears to be a secretion from the medullary arteries. The bone is soft, of the consistence of cartilage, and is easily cut by the knife. Its colour is some shade of red, but varies from light pink or brown to an orange or fawn-coloured tint. This it derives from its vessels, which are numerous, large, and loaded with dark-co- loured blood deficient in fibrin. The periosteum is generally thickened, and occasionally detached. (Cheselden, Bichat, Bonn.) In short, the rachitic bone is the foetal bone in internal structure, but destitute of its proportion of calcareous matter. One of the peculiarities of the rachitic condition of the osseous system is, that though the bones present the characters now enu- merated during its continuance, they afterwards acquire equal or even greater firmness and density than sound bones, by the depo- sition of calcareous matter. While this takes place, the distinction between the cancellated and compact structure begins to be esta- blished, and the formation of medullary canal is also begun. * Cent. 6, Obs. 75. f Morel in Jour, de Med. Paris, 1757, Vol. VII. p. 432 ; Portal sur la Nature du Rachitisme, 2de Partie, Art. iii. p. 246 ; Tacconi in Comm. Bonon ; and Stanley in Med, Chir. Tr. Vol. VII. p. 407. 1