537 SKIN. disease of the skin, but'that they are not, strictly speaking, an ex- ample of tubercular disease of that membrane, as in the arrange- ment of Willan is erroneously represented. The phenomena show that they consist in an inflammatory process of the corion, com- mencing in minute points, and gradually spreading in extent and penetrating in depth, till it generates a peculiar morbid product, which, after undergoing certain changes, is at length spontaneously removed, and allows the sore to heal. Thomson justly remarks, that the disease is first papular, then pustular, and afterwards con- sists of yaw, though the latter is not constant, as the ulcer may heal without this substance, when it must be accounted pustular. At no period does it appear to be tubercular; for the yawey growth, to which alone this term can be applied, is rather an effect of the pustular or chronic corial inflammation modified by the proper yawey action. It may, in short, be inferred, that when the yawey action is sufficient without being excessive, it generates the proper fungous growths, under which the corion is either not materially injured or is regenerated ; if the action be too violent, this growth is either destroyed or prevented from appearing; and in either case the corion is irreparably injured. m. Sivvens, though a disease affecting not only the skin, but the fibro-mucous membranes, is entitled to notice in this place, as caus- ing cutaneous inflammation not dissimilar to that of yaws. Like most inflammations depending on the action of a morbid poison, when it affects the constitution it induces inflammation of the corion in the shape of pustules terminating in bad ulceration and sloughs, —of furuncular tubercles and ulcers,—and of pustular sores afford- ing the raspberry granulating fungus. * § 8. Cutaneous inflammations, chronic, affecting at once the sur- face and the substance of the corion, and attended with general af- fection of the fibro-mucous tissues. Of the disorders which I refer to this head, several are so similar, that they are probably to be viewed as varieties of the same morbid action. Of this kind are the Radesyge, Spedalsked, Liktraa or northern leprosy, the Pellagra or Lombard evil, the Scherlievo of the same place in Italy, the Mai di Rosa of Asturia, and a cuta- * Gilchrist in Essays and Observations, Phys. and Lit. Vol. Ill Art xi Ed 1771 Diss. Inaug. do Syphilitide Insontium, &c. Auct. A. Freer. Ed 177G Uses m Surgery, &c. By James Ilill, Surgeon. Ed 1770 Cl,aoT;;o‘;>nr-,°n M°rbid P°iSOnS’ &C- JoscPh Adams/M. D. London, 1807,