GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 152 corresponding to the inflammation by congestion of Pare, Hildanus, Wiseman, and the older surgeons, and causing the cold abscess to which I had occasion formerly to allude. But, with the exception of its being attended with little or no pain, and proceeding much more slowly than acute inflammation, little is known regarding the anatomical and pathological characters of this form of the process. From several circumstances it might be inferred that the capillaries begin to assume the suppurative action, at least in filamentous tis- sue, more readily than in the case of acute inflammation. In other parts chronic inflammation may exist without terminating in the suppurative process. In cases in which the acute seems to be combined with the chronic, so as to form an intermediate or mixed variety of disease, it has been distinguished by the name of subacute inflammation. Under certain circumstances chronic inflammation may terminate in the acute. Thus an abscess in the cavity of a joint, either by distension or by propagation of action, may induce inflammation in the subcutaneous cellular tissue and in the skin. < When a chronic abscess is opened, its whole interior surface is attacked with acute inflammation; and when a lumbar abscess is opened, or is allowed to burst, the same effect results. By carefully excluding the air, indeed, and healing up the wound according to the manner of Mr Abernethy, the severity of this inflammation may be much mitigat- ed ; hut it always takes place, and sooner or later becomes gene- ral and severe. In this sense only can suppuration be said to cause inflammation. But the proper view of the relation of these two processes is, that chronic inflammation may cause the acute form by the capillaries assuming a new mode of action, or by propagat- ing the irritation to those of a new texture. In circumstances of this description, suppuration is in general without granulation or attempt at repair. o. Suppuration may be either without attempt at repair, or with absolute destruction of texture; and it is then distinguished as ul- ceration, or the formation of an ulcer. Since the time of Hunter, who gave the first clear idea of this process, ulceration has been generally understood to consist in absorption with suppuration. This notion is perhaps more hypothetical than the old one of breach of surface or loss of substance, which simply expressed the fact without reference to its supposed cause. But as loss of substance implies the absorption or resumption of part of the animal texture,