363 NERVOUS TISSUE. nous form, with a multiplied mechanical surface, liberally supplied with blood-vessels, from which the nervous matter is secreted and nourished. It is impossible, indeed, to doubt, that of the two parts which compose the nervous chord, it is the most perfectly organized; and that, though it may not be similar in structure to the pia mater, it is quite analogous in the use to which it is subservient. Like that membrane, it sustains the vessels of the nerve; it presents a multiplied surface, over which the vessels are distributed ; and by penetrating deep into the body of the nerve, it conveys the nutri- tious vessels in the most capillary form to the inmost recesses of the nervous substance.* The arrangement which has been above described is the only one which can be regarded as general. It varies in particular re- gions ; and these varieties in the neurilematic disposition occur principally in the nerves which are distributed to the proper organs of sensation.f ls£, The olfactory nerve is soft, pulpy, and desti- tute of neurilema, from its origin in the sylvian fissure, to the gray S bulbous enlargement which terminates its passage in the cranium ; but as soon as it reaches the canaliculi or grooves of the ethmoid bone, and begins to be distributed through the nasal anfractuosities, it is distinctly neurilematic. 2d, The optic nerve is still more pe- culiar in this respect. The instant it quits the optic commissure, (commissure tractuum,) it begins to be invested by a firm general neurilema, which sends into the interior substance of the nerve va- rious membranous septa or partitions, forming separate canals, in which the nervous matter is contained. These partitions, however, are so thin, that at first sight the optic nerve seems to consist mere- ly of one exterior membranous cylinder inclosing the proper mem- branous substance. 3d, Lastly, we remark, that the auditory nerve, or the soft portion of the seventh pair of most anatomical writers, the eighth pair of Soemmering, is the only nerve in which this covering cannot be traced. The neurilema is much thinner and more delicate in the nerves which are distributed to the internal organs, as the lungs, heart, stomach, &c. (nerves of the organic life, great sympathetic and pneumogastric nerves, par vayurn), than in those belonging to the muscular system. I he second component part of the nervous chord or filament is I * Reil, ibid. chap. i. t By the term “ proper organs of sensation” is understood those of sight, hearing, smell and taste, which are confined to a fixed spot in the system.