FILAMENTOUS OR CELLULAR TISSUE. 33 does not appear that the nervous twigs observed to pass through this tissue are lost in it, for in general they have been traced to some contiguous part. Such are the general properties of this tissue considered as an elementary organic substance extensively diffused through the body. In particular regions it undergoes some modifications, which may be referred to the following heads. 1. Beneath the skin, or rather under the adipose membrane ; the subcutaneous and intermuscular cellular tissue; 2. Beneath the villous or mucous membranes; the submucous cellular tissue; 3. Beneath the serous membranes; the subserous cellular tissue; 4. Round blood-vessels, excreting ducts, or other organs; the enclosing tissue, vascular sheaths, &c.; 5. In the substance of organs ; the penetrating cellular tissue. The situation of the subcutaneous filamentous tissue deserves particular notice. Though generally represented as below the skin, it is not immediately under this membranous covering. The skin rests on the adipose membrane, beneath which again is placed the filamentous tissue, extending like a web over the muscles and blood-vessels, penetrating between the fibres and bundles of the former, surrounding the tendons and ligaments, and connected by these productions with a deep-seated layer, on which the muscles move, where they do not adhere to the periosteum and to bones. The extensive distribution of the subcutaneous filamentous tis- sue, the mutual connection of its parts, and its ready communica- tion with the filamentous tissue of the mucous and serous mem- branes, were demonstrated by Haller, William Hunter, and Bor- deu, and have been clearly explained by Portal and Bichat. The principal points worthy of attention may be stated in the following manner. The filamentous tissue of the head and face communicate freely with each other, and with that of the brain by the cranial openings, and with the submucous tissue of the eyelids, nostrils, lips, and the inner surface of the mouth and cheeks. It communicates also with the subcutaneous tissue of the neck all round ; and at the angle of the jaw in the vicinity of the parotid gland is the common point of re-union. To this anatomical fact is referred the frequency of swellings and purulent collections in the region of the parotid in the course of various diseases of the head, face, and neck. The filamentous tissue of the neck may be viewed as the con- necting medium between that of the head and trunk. From the