454 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. neous in origin, and its appearance cannot be traced to any exter- nal cause. In other cases it is observed to appear some time after a blow, or other injury, in which the bone has suffered considerable concussion. The disease may make its appearance in two forms 5 either as a chronic malady, which is most usual; or as one of great acuteness, with intense symptoms of general and local disorder. When it appi oaches as a chronic disease, the individual has pains in the leg, or thigh, or arm of the part to be affected, which is re- ferred to the bone; the pain is aggravated by walking and all mo- tion ; and there is in the limb a sense of weight with weakness, which makes the patient afraid lest anything is to injure it. After some time swelling takes place all over the limb. Occasionally attacks come on like rose affecting the limb; and either soon or after several of these attacks matter is formed; and upon being discharged spontaneously or by art, the bone is found bare, in more or less extent, and sometimes rough and parts of it loose. In another class of cases the patient suffers deep-seated gnawing- pain, referred to one part of the bone, which is aggravated and extended over the whole bone on attempting to walk or otherwise persisting in using the limb. The patient is also lame and in ge- neral little able to walk. The limb is swelled; over the bone much thickening and swelling are felt; generally pain on pressure is felt; and the surface is unusually hot. At length, from some very slight and inadequate cause, as endeavouring to stand on the limb, or in the course of walking, if that has not been abandoned, the patient is seized with sudden and immediate loss of power in the limb, and be falls down helpless and motionless. When the bone is examin- ed, it is found that fracture has taken place. In some rare cases this fracture unites after a considerable time in the usual way, with much effusion of callus and deposition of bone. In a much larger proportion of cases suppuration takes place; matter finds its way to the surface ; and when by an opening by art or spontaneously, it is allowed to escape, the bone is found to be extensively stripped of periosteum, to be rough and irregular, and without any attempts at union. This suppurative process ad- vances, enfeebling the patient, who pines away in hectic fever, and in no long time dies. The state of the bone is then remarkable. No attempt at union is observed; the broken ends of the bone are white, rough, and lifeless, and for a considerable space deprived of periosteum. The