GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 28 ammonia. The uric acid being formed in the urine as in the last case, it is probable that part of the urea itself is decomposed, the nitrogen and hydrogen combining to form ammonia. This takes place in birds and serpents at all times, and carnivorous animals and the human body when living mostly on animal food. 3. A form more intense still is denoted by the formation of carbo- nate of ammonia. There can be little doubt that when this pro- duct appears, it is the result of the spontaneous decomposition of the urea; the carbon and oxygen forming carbonic acid, and the nitrogen and hydrogen ammonia. 4. A form still different is indicated by the formation of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia. The causes and the mechanism of this production are not well known. It is only known that it takes place most readily under a state of the system of impaired strength; that the urine is either not acid or speedily becomes alcaline; and that the urine is most prone to the putrefactive decomposition. As the addition of ammonia to urine causes a precipitate of phosphate of lime, there is strong reason to believe that the urea is first de- composed and its hydrogen and azote made to furnish ammonia, and that this latter substance causes the precipitate either of phos- phate of lime or phosphate of magnesia according to circumstances. 5. Other morbid products are purpuric acid, purpurate of am- monia, oxalate of lime. 6. Blood may be contained in the urine either in consequence of wounds and injuries of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or prostate gland, or in consequence of calculi in any of these parts, or inflam- matory and hemorrhagic diseases. The urine is either like blood, containing a considerable proportion of that liquid, or it is only of a dark brown colour, coagulable by heat or acids, and presenting to the microscope blood-globules. The physician has most fre- quent occasion to see it in the latter state; and sometimes the urine is clear, but depositing the colouring matter of the blood at the bottom of the vessel. This I have observed during scarlet fever, at its close, and especially during the dropsical affection which often succeeds that disorder. 7. Albumen is contained in urine in the form of serum or serous urine. It is known by the urine being paler than usual, by its specific gravity being lowered, that is, being below 1015, generally about 1009, 1010, or 1011, and by being coagulable on the ap- plication of heat between 160° and 212° F. The proportion of serum varies from one-tenth to one-fifth, in which case it forms a 3