STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—MALPIGHIAN BODIES. 797 rounded by the capsule seen by Muller. Never is there seen on the glomerulus an unequivocal trace of an appended canal, and never at the inner surface of the capsule, or any where else in the uriniferous ducts, ciliary epithelium. From these facts, Bidder thinks it results, that the representations by Mr Bowman contain one fact which is incorrect. This is, that as stated by Gerlach, the circumstance of vessels being exposed uncovered is quite at va- riance with all hitherto known as to the laws of organization. He finds, however, from examining the kidneys of the water salamander, that while the representation of phenomena, as seen by Mr Bow- man, is essentially correct, the explanation of these phenomena requires in many parts to be rectified. For the investigation in question, the anterior part of the kidney of the male triton, ( Triton tamiatus,) is particularly well adapted, because it is by nature expanded in such manner, that for mi- croscopical examination no further artificial preparation is required. Indeed, if one of the leaf-like masses of serpentine canals, of which the part of the kidney specified consists, is simply cut out and placed under the microscope, this is all that is requisite in order to exhibit completely, without exception, the whole of the texture under consideration. Bidder further found that any attempt to improve such a preparation by artificial means, as pulling and tear- ing with needles, to expand fully the convoluted ducts, usually obliterates the characteristic texture, removes the connection of the glomeruli with the uriniferous ducts, destroys the flask-like dilated terminations of the latter, removes the aspect of ciliary epithelium and otherwise renders the part unfit for examination, so as to give correct results. In the fact now stated lies the explanation of the negative re- sults always obtained from examining the kidneys of the frog, be- cause the microscope cannot be employed until fine sections of the renal substance have been spread out by mechanical means. He allows, also, that as these parts are not so easily found in the frog, it is no small proof of the perseverance of Mr Bowman, and the solidity of his inquiries, that notwithstanding these unfavourable circumstances in the higher animals, he has been able correctly to give the essential circumstances of the renal structure. In the ser- pent family and in lizards, the connection of the glomeruli with the uriniferous tubes is seen with comparative ease. But never in the ng or animals did Bidder find, notwithstanding numerous trials,