GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 186 Hypertrophy of the spleen with induration presents occasionally a singular mode of termination. When the swelling has attained a great size, the patient is attacked rather suddenly with symptoms of inflammatory fever of considerable intensity, accompanied with marked disorder in the circulation of the brain. The skin is hot, the pulse quick, from 100 to 110; the face is of a deep-red or brown colour ; the eyes are suffused and injected; and the patient com- plains of thirst and pain in some part of the head. The breathing is also a little hurried and oppressed. The symptoms, in short, are very similar to those of phlebitis. After this has proceeded for one or two days, delirium comes on, the breathing is more oppressed, and the patient expires. Upon inspection all the large veins of the chest and abdomen, and the sinuses and veins of the brain are found filled with masses of clotted blood mixed with lymph and purulent matter. The tu- nics of the veins, however, are not thickened, nor are the lining membranes roughened. This result I have seen take place in two cases, both of which were so carefully observed, that no error appears to me to have been committed. The occurrence it is not easy to explain. All that we can do is to note the fact, that in such cases of splenic dis- ease, a severe lesion is liable to take place with lymphy and pur- ulent deposits in the venous blood of the chest, abdomen, and brain.* 6. Tubercles of the spleen or tyromatous bodies are occasionally met with. The organ is generally enlarged ; and its interior pre- sents disseminated through it a number of whitish-gray or cream- coloured bodies, globular or spheroidal, varying from the size of small peas to that of moderate sized beans. Their substance is very much like that of tyromatous matter in other parts of the body, that is, a sort of albuminous or caseous matter without orga- nization. The splenic tissue is at the same time in general a little more consistent than usual. An important circumstance to be observed is the early period at which tubercles of the spleen may be generated. I have seen them in infancy before the termination of the first year of life. This I observed in the body of an infant in 1832, who had been cut off by intestinal disorder. Tubercular deposits were found also in the lungs. * Case of Disease of the Spleen, in which death took place in consequence of the presence of purulent matter in the blood. By David Craigie, M. D., &c., Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. LX1V. p. 400.