WHITE FIBROUS SYSTEM. 419 a bony swelling, or a deposition of hard osseous matter on the sur- face of the bone. (Exostosis.) The exact nature of the process is not well understood. But there is reason to believe, that what is originally a deposit of lymph as in node, becomes eventually pene- trated by calcareous matter.* The perichondrium is Mot very dissimilar in morbid relations to the periosteum. Its inflammation may cause in like manner thick- ening, morbid deposits, and ulceration, or even death ot the subja- cent cartilage. Such is the course of phenomena occasionally ob- served in the cartilages of the larynx and those of the ribs. o. Sparganosis. Rheumatismus. Rheumatism. Fascial inflam- mation. Though I have above admitted, on the authority of Car- michael Smyth, inflammation of muscular tissue as a cause of rheu- matism, I doubt whether it is entitled to the character of a genuine or uniform pathological cause of that disease. Independent of the fact, that the rheumatic pains occur often round joints, in which there are no muscles, the theory is at best only an ingenious as- sumption, and is not supported by any strong facts or arguments. Though rheumatic pain is often referred to muscular parts, it is less frequently so than to joints and parts covered by aponeurotic sheaths and fasciae. Of 520 cases, Haygarth observed in 388 the rheumatic action to be seated in joints, in 118 in muscular parts, and in 14 wandering, general, or migrating through the limbs. Of 170 cases, in 154 one or more joints were inflamed; in 33 cases, both joints and muscles were simultaneously affected; and in some cases only were the muscles affected without the joints. Though from these facts Dr Haygarth infers that acute rheuma- tism is seated chiefly in the joints, he does not attempt to ascertain the particular texture, in the affection of which the disease consists. It is further manifest, that while it is impossible to exclude affection of the muscles entirely, it results that this affection is only secon- dary. The proof adduced by Dr Scudamore from pressure of the whole course of a muscle, and grasping its substance during severe rheumatism, to show that the fleshy part is not the seat of complaint, is entitled to attention. Combined with those already mentioned, and with other considerations to be adduced immediately, it results that the rheumatic action is seated in a texture, which, confined neither to the site of the joints, nor to that of the muscles exclu- sively, is common to both, and which, from its extensive distribution and complicated arrangement, accords best with the phenomena, * Meilico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. VIII. p. 90.