SKLEROMA OF THE LIVER. 865 attacked, yet blacks and young people from eight to twenty-five years are most liable. D. SkleroxMa.—To the fourth head, or that of chronic conges- tive inflammation, may be referred those examples of liver disease, in which the organ becomes slowly indurated, generally with, some- times without, enlargement, but always with obscure symptoms of ill health, until the structure of the organ is so generally changed, that it is no longer fit for its functions of receiving the venous cir- culation, or performing the secretion of bile. The symptoms of this disease are so similar to those of suppurative inflammation, that it is impossible in the present state of knowledge to attempt a complete history. The principal, according to Pemberton, are a sense of weight and dull pain in the right side, weary heaviness ot the right arm, and frequently pain at the top of the shoulder. The tongue is usually whitish, the appetite impaired, the counte- nance sallow, and the bowels slow, and stools clay-coloured. The pulse is about 90, almost invariably intermitting, and there is a sensation o uttering at the pit of the stomach,—symptoms which ember ton ascribes to the impeded motion of the arterial and ve- nous blood through the hardened gland. These symptoms, how- evei, it may be remarked, appear only when the disease is far ad- vanced, when the natural structure is much injured. Xhe organ is harder than natural, and when cut gives a gristly T‘S SUfr “ m°ttled> and marked w,°h de- LlerT , ™ 'ke clcatrices- Its substance is also generally , natUra1’ sou.eti.nes of a wood-brown colour; and some! ones like a recent section of nutmeg in tint; and, if immersed in “ "f rI,appears <l“iteL differeDt from the sound state. It is nfiltr-it , SraV" 1,Sht-coloured particles, which seem to be nnltrated between the acini, or glandular granules. In some in- > nec s it is possible to distinguish between the acini a bluish-grav sort o substance, which is indurated cellular tissue. ° ' Wot unlike, perhaps, is the hard state of liver observed in ittfe bio i "i Marsh“U describes them as yellowish, containing „m!,b d,’ a"d c°u|municating a gristly sensation, when diviiloif ; ^^ s ££££ hS tu'rilhmen?'! f °f ™P“'- 1 dropsica, effusion within the 3 i