701 SEROUS MEMBRANE.— INFLAMMATORY PRODUCTS. slips, and very generally as a membranous capsule covering the apex of tbe lung, and connecting it to the thoracic pleura. In the pericardium the constant motion of the heart modifies the appearance of the albuminous exudation. As this motion prevents during coagulation the exact apposition of the surfaces of the. cap- sular and cardiac divisions of the membrane, the most prominent parts, or those which least change relation only adhere. This forms the irregular laminated processes mentioned by Bailhe as giving the appearance of lace-work ; and if the capsule be separated from the heart in this stage of the process, it gives the result no- ticed by Laennec, who compares it to the appearance produced by the sudden separation of two pieces of slab united by a thick layer of butter. At a later period this disunion will afford the calf-sto- mach surface (caillebottee; bonnet cle venu),* which may be regard- ed as the link connecting the organizable state of the deposition with that in which it forms an adherent tissue. In the peritonaeum it takes place chiefly along the line of one portion of ileum with another, and between the prominent points of these and the omentum, or the muscular portion of the mem- brane. In some instances every fold almost of ileum is connected with some other, and the whole are matted together by long trian- gular prisms of lymph, generally opaque, of a lemon-yellow colour, and of a pulpy or gelatiniform consistence. Albuminous exudation or lymph is much less frequently found between the surfaces of the arachnoid membrane. That it is ac- tually secreted by this membrane, however, is well established. Dr Stark records three cases in which coagulated lymph was found between the dura and pia mater, and round the membranous co- verings of the medulla oblongata and spinal chord.f One example of this exudation is delineated by Baillie and Hooper represents three in which he traces its progress from simple inflammation to oiganized membrane.§ Instances of albuminous exudation on the sui face of the arachnoid are also mentioned by Tacheron, Andral, and Dr Abercrombie. || In the body of a woman who died with symptoms of intense coma, I found a thin but distinct albuminous deposit on the free surface of the arachnoid, extending from the * Laennec, Observ. 1, 2, 3, 4, and Art. ii. Obs. 4. t The Works of the late William Stark, M. D ’ Lond 1788 i Pkte iv. Fascic. x. § Plates i. and ii. ' II 1 athological and Practical Researches, &e. p. M—56—CO. Part iv. p. 69.