HETEROLOGOUS GROWTHS—SCIRRHUS OF THE PANCREAS. 851 noi ta. Its base was surrounded by a bard cartilaginous scirrhous stiucture partly projecting into it. The rest of the gland consist- ed of less solid yet unyielding heavy substance, composed of dense closely interwoven membranous bands. The pancreatic duct was pervious for about one inch only from the duodenum. The ductus choledochus and hepatic ducts were pervious.* The pancreas is liable to be involved in the heterologous struc- tures of other parts. Thus it may be involved in new heterologous structure, arising either in the interperitoneal cellular tissue, or in the mesenteric glands, or in the pylorus, or in the duodenum. In the 7 th case given by Dr Bright the pancreas was involved for a great portion of its space in a new growth which had affected the liver and the whole of the abdominal absorbent glands, f And in a case given by Schupmann, in which cancer affected the pylorus and pancreas, the head of the latter gland was enlarged to three times its usual size, while the gland itself consisted of separate masses mutually connected, longish, from the size of a hazelnut to that of a walnut and the interior structure of which was hard and gristly- like. No ulceration had yet taken place. But the mesenteric glands had partaken m the disease, and were firmly united to the pancreas. In all cases of scirrhus affecting the pancreas, the lobulo-granu- structure of the gland is either greatly or entirely obliterated. The acini are so much changed, that the granular character can- or ess Tif'Tn 11,6 Pla“ °f ‘his there is more or less of the following structure. First, there may be deposited Lice I?rC°°f Whi“ C°,trar’ and A™ as rartdage, which ,s diffused in amorphous portions varying in size roug 1 t1C g and. These masses are traversed by bluish-white mes of firmer matter, which look like fibrous bands. Secondly there may be deposited the same substance in the form of tubercles odules, varying m size from a small pea to a bean Both nf these forms of new deposit tend to softening ‘ * I 10. Encephaloid Disease. On this point information is not two Cases of Scirrhus of the Pancreas Sr v ■ •fournal, vol. xxv. p. 219. Dublin, 1)144. ’ ranC'S Battersby> B. Dublin t Cases and Observations connected with Disease of ti„ » fprH"™"8- TranSaCt-’ voL xviii- P- 30. London, 1833 C1'°aS Duodei"™> t- 1 fortner und Pancreas-Krebs, von Dr Arl c. i *» Hviltamle Srsh*; Stek. Journ.l