GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 964 numerous lamellae, like the crystalline humour, or they are a bag containing serous fluid.* The cystoscirkoma is in short a tumour or growth, consisting of a fibrous or fibro-vascular frame-work or stroma, containing cysts more or less complete, of various sizes, and more or less numerous. Dr Hodgkin describes a tumour consisting of hydatid cysts as incident both to the female breast and testis of the male.f § 5. The irritable or neuralgic tumour consists in painful hard- ness with or without swelling of one or two lobes of the mamma. The pain is disproportionate to the hardness or enlargement. The surface is tender, and does not bear handling. This is more a dy- namic affection than a disease of the mamma; and its presence is connected with the state of the uterus and ovaries. It occurs in young females between 15 and 30. § 6. The adipose tumour is sometimes an increased deposit of the natural adipose tissue ; or fat may be deposited in one or more cysts. Fatty matter is also liable to be infiltrated within the lac- teal tubules when the period of menstruation ceases, causing a sort of steatosis of the gland. § 7. Atrophy.—The breasts undergo a species of shrinking or atrophy in all females after menstruation ceases and the period of child-bearing is past. In some instances, apparently in connection with some morbid state of the ovaries, one or both breasts are liable to become shrunk in this manner previous to the normal time for the cessation of menstruation. In other instances fat is deposit- ed and the glandular structure diminishes or disappears. § 8. Hypertrophy.—In some females, particularly about the age of 18, 20, or between that and 25, a peculiar enlargement of the breast is observed. The gland becomes enlarged and heavy ; the skin over it is likewise enlarged. If the enlargement continue, the breast is so bulky and pendulous that the tension of the skin is no longer adequate to support it; but it hangs down loose, bulky, and pendulous. The nipple is flattened; the areola expanded. So far as can be judged, this is a true hypertrophy of the glandular structure. § 9. Cartilaginous and ossific transformation has been observed * Illustrations of the Diseases of the Breast. By Sir Astley Cooper, Bart. Lon- don, 1829. 4to. T On the Anatomical Characters of some Adventitious Structures. By Thomas Hodgkin, M. D. Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, Vol. xv. London, 1829.