339 MAIN. rious forms; and it is not improbable, that, under ceitain ciicum- stances, it may be so modified as to cause the deposition of this sub- stance in an indivisible mass, in a limited situation, and from a proper cyst.* Often, however, the formation of these bodies is the result of derangement in the process of nutrition. Whatever be the origin of these bodies, it is understood, that, sooner or later, they undergo a change in their interior, which sometimes at the centre, sometimes in several points, simultaneous- ly begins to soften and become fluid. It is at least known, that such bodies are found to have fluid or semifluid contents, consist- ing chiefly of serous liquor with albuminous flakes or curd-like masses in it. Of tins description are the tumour of the protube- rance represented by Dr Yelloly as in a state of imperfect suppu- ration ;f the cerebral vomicce described by Coindet as similar to tumours of meliceris; the seventy-fifth case of Dr Abercrombie; that in the protuberance given by Dr Kellie, (Monro, p. 178,) and by Dr Moncrieff in the same work, (pp. 50—53.) When the sof- tening or liquefying process is complete, the tubercular mass as- sumes the form of an encysted abscess. Of such abscesses, it may indeed become a question whether the fluid or the solid state is the incipient one. The principal facts in favour of the latter idea are, the circumstances of the fluid being found in the centre while the circumference is solid, and the larger bodies being found soft while the small are firm. According to this, which is the general opinion at present, in the incipient stage the tubercle is said to be cruc/e, in the more advanced to be softened or dissolved. b. The second form in which tubercular deposition takes place is when it is found in numerous minute spherical or spheroidal bodies, disseminated through the substance of the brain. Of this the best examples with which I am acquainted are recorded by Red andM. Chomel. In the case given by Professor Reil more than ‘200 ob- long spherical bodies were found in the gray matter of the brain and cerebellum. They were a little firmer than the brain itself; mostly of a pale yellow ; some few of a very pale blue colour ; of the size of a lentile or a pea; and when divided, showed internally an adipose-like substance, resembling in colour and consistence boiled or beaten potatoes. From some, which were marked in the centre with a dark point, and seemed to be covered by a thin cyst, the slightest incision discharged a matter like vermicelli. These * Trait6 Clinique et Pathologiquc, p. 101. + Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. i, p. 102.