814 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The lacrymal gland may be enlarged from strumous disorder to the size of a nut. It then makes a distinct tumour at the exterior and superior angle of the eye beneath the orbital plates. Schmidt admitted that inflammation of the lacrymal gland alone can scarcely be said to take place ; because, the disease thus desig- nated is rather inflammation of the entire orbit, that is of the or- bital cellular tissue, embracing also the gland.* This view is adopted by Benedict, who devotes a whole chapter to the descrip- tion of the disease and its effects. As described by this author, it is manifestly an acute inflammation of the ophthalmic cellular tis- sue, with some symptoms indicative of extension to the cerebral membranes. Thus, not only is there pain in the eyeball and orbit, but pain of the head, delirium, want of sleep, and great suffering. The characteristic symptoms are the sense of something in the or- bit above the eye, the feeling of the orbit being too small for the eye, as if the eyeball were thrust out of it; then swelling of the up- per eyelid, proceeding generally to a great degree; and at last the formation of matter, which points in this situation, or immediately beneath it.f A similar account is given by Weller. It is manifest that this is the account of general inflammation of the orbital celluloso-adipose tissue; and not of the lacrymal gland alone. The gland, however, may be affected; but that is only in a slight degree. This disorder may terminate in one of three modes. First, un- der symptoms of complete phrenitis, the patient dies; secondly, it may terminate in abscess of the orbital tissue; or, thirdly, complete ophthalmitis is associated with inflammation of the eyeball, and sup- puration of the latter is superadded to abscess of the orbit. Next to resolution abscess of the orbital tissue is the most favour- able result. Benedict states that when this does not take place, or an opening is neglected, death has been the result, by the tran- sit of the disease to the brain; and on inspecting the parts, the an- terior lobe has been found inflamed, and a collection of purulent matter, both on the surface of the cranium, frontal bone, and in the orbit. When the lacrymal gland is affected by chronic inflammation, the eye is protruded, the optic nerve suffers from pressure, and * Johann. Adam Schmidt, iiber die Krankheiten des Thranenorgans, mit 4 Kup- fertaf, gr. 8vo. Wien, 1803. f Traugott Guilelmi Gustavi Benedict, de Morbis Oculi Humani Inflammatoriis. Lib. xxiii. Lipsiffi, 1811. Liber 7imua, ยง 153,*p. 82.