929 INFLAMMATION OF THE KIDNEY. One cause of tumour and eventually abscess lias been pointed out by Petit in France, and Amyand in this country. This con- sists in an accumulation of bile, too thick apparently to flow through the duct, attended probably with some obstruction either in the cystic or common duct, by which the bile is prevented from getting into the duodenum, and consequently distends the gall-bladder, which then is inflamed. § 4. The gall-bladder is liable to be involved in the heterolo- gous deposits by which the liver is affected. § 5. The gall-bladder has been found altogether wanting by Mar- cellus Donatus, Schenke, Huber,f Targioni Tozzetti,^ Sandifort,§ and VViedemann.il § 6. It is liable to be ruptured, to be wounded or lacerated, and to be ossified. Section V. Morbid States of the Kidney. The kidney is liable to be the seat of inflammation of various sorts, and its effects, especially suppuration within the calyces; to the formation and presence of calculi within the calyces and pelvis ,* to enlargement and dilatation, and hemorrhage; to granular dege- neration (steatosis); to the formation of serous cysts ; to atrophy; to hypertrophy; and to the heterologous growths. § 1. Nephritis. Inflammation and its Effects.—The kid- ney is, like other glands, liable to inflammation; but this is more particularly the consequence of certain circumstances residing either in the general system of the individual; or in the organ itself; or in the relation of the organ to the stomach, and the function of digestion and assimilation. It is said that idiopathic inflammation of the kidney is a rare affection; and that most commonly the dis- ease is symptomatic, that is, is supposed to indicate the presence and operation of some irritant agent. This may be correct as to acute attacks; but it is not applicable to chronic affections, which come on and are established either without perceptible cause, or depend on the state of the blood and of the organs of digestion. The idiopathic form is liable to take place in the gouty, as a symp- tom of the gouty diathesis and internal gout, being one form in t ?i!7PYrranSaCt' 49t2‘ • + Joumal de Medecine, Tome iv. p. 283. 4- tabulae Anatom icae, Fasciculus iii. § Reil Archiv fur die Physiologie, v. Band, p. 145. 3 N