265 BRAIN. named stalks or peduncles of the cerebellum. At the point at which they take this direction, they further receive a considerable accession from the restiform processes, the fibres of which are here seen to make a slight bend upwards, in order to follow the direction of the peduncles. Thus is composed a thick strong trunk of white matter, which on each side forms a sort of central pillar, (Die Marksaule, Der Pfeiler,) to each cerebellic hemisphere. The interior arrange- ment of this pillar or trunk is distinctly fibrous longitudinally, at its origin, or parting from the protuberance, and for a considerable distance from this point through the hemisphere. Unless I am misled by optical deception, the part derived from the restiform processes is also fibrous, and changes direction, to accord with that of the peduncular bands. In the centre of the white fibrous pillar thus formed is contained a body consisting of a capsule of fibrous matter enclosing a nucleus of white. The serrated or indented form in which both the nucleus and its capsule are arranged gives it the name of ciliary or mori- form body ; (corpus ciliare v. dentatum, c. rnoriforme or rliomboi- denm.) The capsule is incomplete at one end, that turned towards the base or root of the trunk. Each trunk or stem (Stamm) divides into a certain number of branches, (Aeste); each branch into a number of twigs (Zweige ;) and to each twig is attached a number of leaves. (Folia ; Blattchen.) Of these plates or leaves the structure is uniformly the same,— white matter internally, covered with a thicker layer of gray. Whether the white is really fibrous or not, as Reil describes, is not easy to say, in consequence of its extreme tenuity and small quan- tity. It is certainly fibrous in the stems and branches, in which the linear appearance can be seen almost by the eye, and always by a glass. I cannot say that it is so evident in the twigs, in which it is in very small quantity; and in the leaves the intimate dispo- sition is still more difficult to recognize. In the gray matter it is impossible to trace any thing like fibrous structure. The ramification (die verzweigung, die zerastelung,) in the cere- bellic hemispheres is connected with the circular-transverse fibres of the protuberance and the restiform processes exclusively. Some would say that from this, this ramification is derived,—the precise meaning of which I have already endeavoured to determine. In the middle of this organ, however, or on its mesial plane, is found a ramification which appears to be connected with a different source.