SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. ‘ * tible of anatomical proof. The cartilaginous synovial membrane is certainly not so easily demonstrable as the capsular, lor the same reason which I have already assigned regarding the difficulty ot isolating the arachnoid of the dura mater, the capsular pericardium, the ovarian peritonaeum, and the serous covering of the tunica al- buginea,—the want of filamentous tissue. The presence of synovial membrane in the articular cartilage is nevertheless established by sundry facts, ls^ If a portion of arti- cular cartilage be divided obliquely, and examined by a good glass, it is not difficult to recognize at one extremity of the section a thin pellicle, differing widely in aspect, colour, and structure, from the bluish-white appearance of the cartilage. 2d, If the free surface of the cartilage be scraped gently, it is possible to detach thin shav- ings, which are also distinct from cartilage in their appearance. 3d, The free surface of the cartilage is totally different from the attached surface, or from a section of its substance, and derives its peculiar smooth polished appearance from a very thin transparent pellicle uniformly spread over it. 4:th, If articular cartilage be immersed in boiling water, this thin pellicle becomes opaque, while the cartilage is little changed. 5th, Immersion in nitric or muri- atic acid, which detaches the cartilage from the bone, gives this sur- face a cracked appearance, which is not seen in the attached surface, and which is probably to be ascribed to irregular contraction of two different animal substances. 6th, The existence of this carti- laginous synovial membrane is demonstrated by the morbid process with which the tissue is liable to be affected. Upon the whole, therefore, I believe little doubt can be entertained, that the repre- sentation of their course, as given originally by Nesbitt, Bonn, and Hunter, is well founded. The same views may be applied to the synovial linings of the tendinous sheaths, which are equally to be viewed as shut sacs. Attached to the free surface of each synovial membrane is a pe- culiar fringe-like substance, which was long supposed to be an ap- paratus of glands (glands of Havers) for secreting synovial fluid. It is now known that these fringes are merely puckered folds of synovial membrane, and that, although synovia is abundantly se- creted by them, this depends merely on the great extent of surface which their puckered arrangement necessarily presents. This ar- rangement is easily demonstrated by immersing an articulation con- taining the fringed processes in clear water, when they are unfolded