AllTOUS MEMBRANE. 679 of the same occurrence in the uterus. Ihe history of the mode of development of this deposition is not exactly known; and it is not quite certain whether the ossification originates invariably in the mucous corion. This indeed appears to have taken place in the instance mentioned by Walter, and in such cases of uterine ossifi- cation as that recorded by Dr Caldwell.* In instances of osseous deposition in the alimentary canal, it is justly suspected by Dr Monro to originate in the muscular fibres. § 8. Further, in certain regions of the mucous tissue aie found morbid growths which are proper to these regions, and to be found in no other part of the mucous membranes. Thus the milt- like tumour described by Dr Monro has been found chiefly in the sto- mach and bowels; and the fleshy tubercle of William Hunter and Dr Clark, and the cauliflower excrescence of the latter, are found only in the womb. The former variety of tumour, for an accurate description of which we are indebted to Dr Monro tertius, resembles in structure and consistence the milt of fishes, is of a pale red colour, with an :j irregular surface, and is covered by a thin but vascular mem- brane, adheres slightly to the organ from which it grows by a num- ber of small vascular processes penetrating the mucous corion, which is unnaturally thick, and presents a honey-comb appearance. The portion of intestine to which such tumour is attached presents marks of vascular injection. The substance of the tumour, though misci- ble with water, which it renders turbid, is indurated by immersion in alcohol,—a circumstance from which it may be inferred to con- tain a proportion of albuminous matter. It emits a fetid offensive smell, and communicates the same to the organ from which it grows. It is chiefly a disease of advanced life,—a circumstance by which, with others, it may be distinguished from hsematoid fungus. The fleshy or sarcoid tubercle of the uterus, though apparently not unknown to Morgagni, was first observed by William blunter, and has since been distinctly described by Dr John Clarke, Dr Baillie,f and Sir C. M. Clarke.\ According to the accounts of these observers, it appears in the form of one or more tumours of hard whitish substance, sometimes as firm as cartilage, projecting from the mucous surface of the organ, but occasionally growing * Med. and Surg. Joum. Vol. ii. 22. t Morbid Anatomy, chap. xix. p. 374. + Observations on the Diseases of Females, part i. ehap. Xviii. p- 243.