CEPHALIC MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 567 vessels, sometimes arborescent or asteroid, sometimes punctular or in minute points, occasionally in linear streaks, and not unfrequent- ly in red patches; the surface becomes swelled and villous or pulpy; and the proper secretions of the part are altered into sero-albumi- nous fluid, puriform mucus, or actual purulent matter. In situa- tions in which there is epidermis, as in the mouth and gullet, this is elevated into minute vesicles and blisters forming aphthae ; or the membrane is cast off in the form of exfoliated patches. In the gastro-enteric membrane the villi are removed, and the surface is rendered plane like that of the rectum or bladder. The inflamma- tion may terminate in the formation of ulcers ; or in induration and permanent thickening of the mucous tissue by effusion of lymph beneath it, and into its substance. The follicles are at the same time liable to become enlarged and vascular, and occasionally proceed to ulceration ; but this is more frequent in the chronic form of the process. The minute peculiarities will be more conveniently noticed under their respective heads. A. CEPHALIC MUCOUS MEMBRANES. § 1. Ophthalmia serosa et puriformis.—The ophthalmic mucous membrane (conjunctiva) may be become the seat of inflammation, with secretion of sero-albuminous fluid, puriform fluid, or purulent matter. In the former case, in which the natural fluid appears simply to be much augmented, the inflammation is confined chiefly to the ocular conjunctiva, which is reddened and elevated, formino- in severe cases round the cornea a prominent ring or excrescenc<T which appears to start from the eyelids-a state denominated by the ancient surgeons chasm or gaping (cliemosis), because a small opening Corresponding to the cornea is left in the centre of the swelled membrane. This severe form of the disease occasionally terminates in suppuration, ulceration, or sloughing. Of the second form, two varieties are mentioned, the purulent ophthalmy of infants, and the purulent ophthalmy which affects epidemically large bodies of men in close intercourse with each otier. In both cases, the mucous surface of the eye and eyelids is very red, swollen, villous, and pulpy, and puckered into folds by cornel 7 ,nuscles; while “>e cornea is generally r, 7 y- m°re °r le8S the eyelids are evened. After con inumg this state for eight or ten days dis- charging much pur,form yellow fluid, it may terminate in infants