PATHOLOGY OF METASTATIC ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. 875 less extensive in the large intestine; and in other two cases the colon was contracted with stricture, showing the presence of dy- sentery at some former period. Among fifteen fatal cases which fell under the observation of Dr Budd in the Dreadnought, in eight cases there were ulcers in the large intestines; in one case, two ulcers were observed in the stomach ; and in two cases the state of the intestines was not ob&eived ; so that in nine among tlnrteen cases hepatic abscess was conjoined with ulcers in the colon or stomach. Among sixteen cases collected by Andral and Louis, in two cases ulcers in the large intestine and lower end of the ileum are noticed ; in one case, ulcers were observed in the lower end of the ileum only; in four cases, ulcers were seen in the stomach; and in one case, in the gall-bladder. In one of these cases of ulcer of the stomach, the ulcer was caused by the abscess opening into the sto- mach ; and this case may therefore be excluded. With this de- duction, however, there are, among fifteen cases, seven in which the existence of abscess of the liver was preceded by ulceration of some part of that extensive mucous membrane, from which the capillary veins arise and proceed to unite in the vena portae. I have already, in page 863, mentioned that, in 1827 I met with a remarkable example of the conjunction of large hepatic abscess, with extensive ulceration of the colon; and in which the formation of the former was so insidious, that its existence was not suspected during life. It appeared to me at this time that some connection between the two phenomena subsists; and that this connection is not accidental. Of this connection I had little doubt after reading the Memoir of Mr Arnott, already referred to; and 1833 by Cmveilhier'*US^ 'aTC h6™ re,”°Ved by the facts given in On the other hand, it is agreed, that, in the case of this sym- phenomenon in various instances hepatic suppuration precedes the formation of ulcers of the intestinal canal, ^his, howeC nmrdy ows, that the same general causes which produce hepatic abscess^ hat is, excessive solar heat, terrestrial miasmata, and full living may be followed by inflammatory processes in two sets of ornans much exposed to the hurtful influence of these physical causes"’' " mereninflt r" °bS<!r,ed’ th,“’ f°r auSht « hitherto known ntre inflammation, or even vascular congestion of tho ’ lne,n rane °f thc alirnentary> may, considering the direct relation * Anat°mie PatholW, Livraison xi. pi. j, 2, 3. Pari5) 1833.