244 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. who in noticing this part has called it the white perforated substance, (substance blanche perforee), applied the term of colour without ex- amining the contiguous parts, when denuded of their membranous investments. The same name nearly, (lamina perforata), has been given it by Reil. The orifices which characterize this part of the brain admit, from the Sylvian or middle artery, an infinity of blood- vessels, which here penetrate the part denominated the hooh-shaped cerebral band (Der Haaken-forinige Mark-biindel) delineated by Reil. This circumstance renders the adjoining part the most vas- cular of the whole organ,—a fact which will be shown to be im- portant in the pathology of the brain. Anterior to the perforated spot at the extreme verge of the un- convoluted substance, is situate a small pointed eminence, of gray colour, shaped like a triangular pyramid, most conspicuous when cleared of the membrane which covers it. Proceeding backward from tliis, we remark two slender white lines of different lengths, and following different directions. The inner of these is short; and after a course seldom exceeding four or five lines in the adult brain suddenly ceases to be visible. The outer one is much longer, follows a curved direction, with the concave part of its course di- rected anteriorly, and is of a more vivid white colour. These two lines are the generating or initial filaments of the first pair of nerves. Within the perforated spot the curvilinear hollow is generally conceived to be terminated. The unconvoluted space, however, in which it consists, is here directly continuous with the figurate sur- face of the brain. This space indeed makes here a sharp turn backwards; and having on the inside the long cerebral band termed the optic tract, may be conceived to be bounded by the limb of the brain. This body, with that of the opposite side, will be imperfectly seen at first; and though the end which unites each with the bridge or protuberance is sufficiently conspicuous, the op- posite extremity cannot be distinctly perceived. It is indeed co- vered by a portion of the convoluted surface, the inner and promi- nent surface of the medio-inferior or spheno-temporal region. This must therefore be gently moved outwards or laterally, and also raised; and with the aid of the handle of a scalpel and the fingers of a dexterous assistant, the cerebral limb may be shown to be here crossed or surrounded by the optic tract of the side. The purpose of this part of the exposition is to show the geniculate bodies, or posterior eminences of the optic chambers.