GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 436 tains a notable quantity of fat, oleaginous matter, which has been long known under the name of marrow (/xusXog kirns, medulla;) and a similar substance, though in much smaller quantity, is found in the loose cancellated tissue of the flat and short bones. It is in the first situation only that it is possible to examine the anatomical cha- racters of this substance. It is sufficiently similar to fat or animal oil in other parts of the body to lead us to refer it at present to that head. In other respects, its chemical qualities have not been much examined; but an analysis by Berzelius shows that it consists chiefly of an oily matter, not unlike butter in general properties. The filaments,blood-vessels, albumen, gelatine, and osmazome found by this chemist in marrow, are to be regarded as derived from the filamentous tissue in which the medullary particles are deposited, and by no means to be arranged with it. They did not exceed 4 parts in the 100. The medullary membrane, which has been con- sidered as an internal periosteum, is but imperfectly known. There can be no doubt, however, of its existence, which is easily demon- strated by opening either transversely or longitudinally the medul- lary canal of a long bone, and boiling it for about two hours. The marrow then, as is well known to cooks, drops out; and it will be found on examination to be deposited in the interstices of a fila- mentous net-work of animal matter, which is not unlike very fine filamentous or cellular tissue, which may be traced not only into the lattice-work of the extremities, but into the longitudinal canals of the cylindrical bones. It is traversed by bloocI-Tessels, which are observed to bleed during amputation. No nerves have been found in it. The medullary membrane, in short, may be regarded as an extensive net-work of very minute capillaries united by deli- cate filamentous tissue. From these capillaries the marrow is de- posited as a secretion.—(Mascagni, Howship.) The development or progressive formation of the osseous system has given rise to many interesting researches by Kerckringius, Vater,* Easter,f Duhamel,! Nesbitt,§ Haller,|| Dethleef,1T Reic-hel, Albinus,** David, Troja, Scarpa, John Hunter,ff Senff',^Ilowship,§§ * De Ostcogenia Naturali et Praeternaturali. Haller, Disput. Anat. Vol. VI. p. 22/. t De Osteogenia. Haller, Disp. Anat. Vol. Vll. + Mem. de 1’Academic Royale, 1741-42, &c. § Human Osteogeny, &c. By Ro. Nesbitt, M. I). Lond. 1736. l| Opera Minora, Tom. II. XXXIIT. p. 4G0. *[f Dissert. Ossium Calli generationem cxliibens. Goett. 1753. ** Annot. Anat. et Eikones Os. Foet. Hum. Lug. Bat. 1753. Medical and Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. II. ++ Nonnulla de Incremento Ossium, &c. Halle, 1781. §§ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. VI. p. 2G3.