916 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. mamma, and that which produces the colloid structure in the sto- mach, may produce the encephaloid deposit in the liver. Fifthly, It occasionally happens that the enkephaloid structure appears both in several external parts, for instance in the glands of the neck, those of the female breast, among the muscles of an ex- tremity, or in a bone or joint, and also, either at the same time or soon after, in the liver. Enkephaloid deposit may affect the liver at any period of life. But it appears most usually between the ages of 30 and 45 or 50. I have seen an instance beyond 60; but this must be regarded as unusual. Death is produced, not so much by the mere nature of the dis- ease as by its mechanical pressure and pathological irritation on the chylopoietic and assistant chylopoietic viscera. The enlarged liver compresses the stomach, duodenum, and blood-vessels; im- pedes the function of digestion ; and causes intra-abdominal effusion. Dr Carsewell shows that in many if not all instances, the enke- phaloid matter is previously found in the blood and blood-vessels; and that from the blood it is conveyed by the vessels to various or- gans, and especially to the liver. He thinks that in the liver the enkephaloid matter is infiltrated or deposited within the acini, or glandular elements; and as the form and size of these bodies is not altered, he infers that this new matter is introduced in the same order and manner as the normal element of nutrition.* The presence of enkephaloma in the liver is in general recog- nized during life with little difficulty. A tumour in the site of the right hypochondre and epigastric region, sometimes extending down- wards to the space of two or three inches, with an irregular nodulated surface, with the peculiar complexion and expression indicating the presence of heterologous disease, are the marks which it presents. E. Melanoma. Melanosis.—This, which consists in a depo- sition of black ink-looking or umber-brown matter, semifluid, solid, like black paste, or liquid, sometimes in points, sometimes in masses contained in cysts, sometimes in layers, is an affection of the liver not very uncommon. Yet it rarely takes place in the liver unless at the same time or previously it has taken place in other tissues. The most usual situation for the melanotic matter to be deposited when it is found in the liver, is in the adipose tissue between the folds of the mesentery, the mesocolon, in that round the rectum, and in the lumbar glands and loins in general. It seems to be not * Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease. By Robert Carsewell, M. D., &c. London, 1838.