BONE. 437 I Meckel,* Medici, Serres, Lebel, Schultze, Beclard, and Dutro- chet; and it is a proof of the difficult and complicated nature of the subject, that it still continues to give rise to fresh investigation. The inquiry naturally resolves itself into two parts,—the history of the process of ossification, as it takes place originally in the foetus and infant, and the history of its progress as a process of repair when bones are divided, broken, or otherwise destroyed or removed. From the first formation of the embryo to the termination of foetal existence and thenceforth to the completion of growth, the bones undergo changes, in which various stages may be distinguished. In the first weeks of foetal existence it is impossible to recognize anything like bone; and the points in which the bones are after- wards to be developed consist of a soft homogeneous mass of ani- mal matter, which has been designated under the general name of mucus. Sometime between the fifth and the seventh week, in the situation of the extremities, may be recognized dark opaque spots, which are firmer and more solid than the surrounding animal mat- ter. About the eighth week, the extremities may be seen to consist of their component parts, in the centre of each of which is a cylin- drical piece of bony matter. Dark solid specks are also seen in the spine, corresponding to the bodies of the vertebrae; and even the rudiments of spinous processes are observed in the shape of mi- nute,dark points. IpMbp hands and feet rings of bones are seen in the site, of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones. All the joints consist of a semi-consistent jelly-like matter liberally supplied by blood-vessels. At ten weeks the cylinders and rings are increased in length, and are observed to approach the jelly-like extremities, which are acquiring the consistence of cartilage, and when divided present irregular cavities. At the same time the parts forming the head are highly vascular; and between the membranes are depo- sited minute points of bony matter, proceeding in rays from a centre, which, however, is thinner and more transparent than the margin or circumference —(Ilowship.) Between thirteen weeks and four months the cavities in the jelly- like cartilaginous matter receives injection. The membranes of the head are highly vascular, transmitting their vessels through the in- tervals of the osseous rays, which are occupied abundantly by stiff, glairy, colourless mucilaginous fluid. In the seventh month, the bony cylinder of the thigh-bone and its epiphyses contain canals perceptible to the microscope. In the * Journal Complementuirc, Tome II. p. 211.