328 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. increase in nutrition, distinguished by flattening and approximation of the convolutions, narrowing and diminution of the dimensions of the ventricles, universal firmness and whiteness of its gray and white substance, remarkable dryness of its parenchymatous matter, and of the cavity of the arachnoid membrane ; while the texture of the organ appears not to be sensibly changed; 2d, that this hyper- trophy is constantly observed over the whole encephalic mass, ex- cluding the cerebellum; and, 3d, that, instead of increasing the energy of the cerebral action, it tends, on the contrary, to diminish, pervert, and suspend that action, by reason of the compression which it necessarily establishes within the cranium. The leading anatomical and physical characters of hypertFophyr therefore, are the following. Inci’ease in the volume of the brain, such that its internal substance presses forcibly the convolutions against the inner surface of the skull and against each other, and thereby flattens and depresses these bodies, and causes them to ap- proximate ; while the same internal substance, by pressing the ven- tricles, diminishes their cavity. Increase in weight and density, which is said to have been ascertained in all the cases, the specific gravity being increased. The substance of the brain is also firm, as much as boiled white of egg, pale, and void of blood-vessels, while it is unusually dry. From all these circumstances, it results that this lesion consists in the deposition or addition of new matter in the in- terstitial tissue of the brain ; in short, a great increase in nutrition. The effects and symptoms of this 'lesion, though always present, are noti uniform. It is usually preceded or attended by intense headachs,’subject to aggravation ; an obtuse or weakened state of the intellectual faculties, perversion of these faculties, and fits of giddiness accompanied with stupor. Afterwards accessions of con- vulsion’repeatedly take place, or all at once the patient suffers a general loss of sensation and motion. The pulse is slow; the tem- perature of the skin natural. Lastly, the patient is unexpectedly cut off in the course of an epileptiform accession. The circumstances, under which this disease is developed, are not well ascertained. According to M. Dance, it appears to take place very slowly under the influence of very obscure causes. M. M. Laennec, again, thinks that it is developed much more rapidly than any other hypertrophy; and in this respect he allows that it resem- bles the lesions of inflammatory character. All the cases given by M. Dance took' place in adults. One case given by Laennec was