2 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. i dies, and which have therefore been termed indiscriminately animal or living properties. Every animal body consists of several kinds of organic sub- stance, which differ from each other in various modes, and each of which is characterized by peculiar properties. In the human body, and in those of all mammiferous animals, these various kinds of organic substances are believed to be presented in their most perfect state; and it is to these more especially that the attention of the pathologist is directed, and from their examination that his knowledge is derived. At an early period of the study of anatomy, the human body was distinguished into various kinds of animal substance ; and we find even in the writings of Jacopo Berenger of Carpi, (1521), but more distinctly in the great work of Vesalius, an enumera- tion and general description of the different kinds of substance found to constitute the human body. The example given by these founders of the science was imitated to a greater or less extent, and in different degrees of perfection by succeeding systematists; and we find in the works of Riolan,* * * § Adrian Spigel,! Caspar and Thomas Bartholin,^ Dionis,§ Marchettis,|| Willis,1[ and Winslow,** but especially in the bulky compilation of Samuel Collins,ff various attempts to communicate a just idea of the in- * Joannis Riolani Ambiani Medici Parisiensis Opera Omnia. Parisiis, 1610. Folio. t Adriani Spigelii de Corporis Humani Fabrica, libri x. 4to, 1632. $ Thom® Bartholini, Anatomia Reformata, ex [Casparis Bartholini Parentis Insti- tutionibus omniumque Recentiorum et propriis observationibus. 8vo, Hag® Comi- tum, 1660. § The Anatomy of Human Bodies improved, &c., publicly demonstrated in the Royal Garden at Paris, by Monsieur Dionis, Chief Surgeon to the late Dauphiness, and to the present Duchess of Burgundy. Translated from the third edition. Lon- don, 1703. II Dominici de Marchettis Anatomia. Batav. 1652, 4to. Thom a Willis, M. D. Opera Omnia. Amstelredami, 1682. 4to. Pharmaceutiee Rationalis. This treatise contains much information on the anatomical structure of the textures and organs. ** Exposition Anatomique de la Structure du Corps Humain. Par Jacques-Benigne Winslow, de l’Academie Royale, &c. &c. A Paris, 1732. 4to. TT A System of Anatomy treating of the Body of Man, Beasts, Birds, Fish, Insects, and Plants, illustrated with many Schemes, consisting of a variety of elegant Figures drawn from the Life, and engraven in twenty-four folio Copperplates. By Samuel Collins, Doctor of Physic, Physician-in-Ordinary to his late Majesty of blessed memory, and Fellow of the King’s most famous College of Physicians in London, and formerly a Fellow of the Royal Foundation of Trinity College, in the most flourishing Univer- sity of Cambridge. In the Savoy, printed by Thomas Newcomb, 1685. Two vo- lumes folio.