BRAIN. 279 differ from suppuration of the organ ? This question must be de- termined by considering the anatomical characters of the lesion, and the circumstances under which it takes place. In the part af- fected, the portion of brain is never entirely removed. The cere- bral substance is separated, broken down, and mixed either with serous, with bloody, or with purulent fluid. It may succeed at least four morbid states of the organ. 1. It may be the consequence of the blood-stroke, (coup de sang,) or in- jection of the vessels of a given region of the organ. The softened part is then reddish, rose-coloured, amaranth, crimson, or brown. 2. It may follow the effusion of red blood, which nearly in the same manner separates and breaks down the delicate substance of the organ in which it is effused. The softened portion is then ge- nerally brown, or a wine-lee colour ; but if a considerable time has elapsed after effusion, it may be of a dirty or ashy colour, tending to green, and not unlike softened bread. 3. It may either accom- pany or follow the process which terminates in hydrocephalic effu- sion. It is then of a milk-white colour. (Rostan, Lallemand.) 4. It may take place in the cerebral substance surrounding tu- mours, (Meckel, Blane, Powell, &c.) when its colour varies from pale-red to green, yellow, and brown. I rom these facts it may be inferred, that softening, or pulpy disorganization of the brain is not so much a proper disease as the effect of a morbid process, which takes place in different conditions of the brain. When it occurs in the first manner, it is the result of a species of diffuse inflammation, in which there is no tendency to limit the action of the disease by the effusion of lymph, or the formation of a vascular cyst. I his is well illustrated in those cases recorded by Morgagni, in which parts of the brain had become yellowish or greenish, with much diminution of consistence, (Epist. iii. 2. ix. 20. xxv. 10. Iii. 23); and in the eighth delineation of Dr Hooper, (p. 23.) In cases of this description, a sero-albuminous or semi- purulent fluid is infiltrated into the cerebral substance, portions of which are thus separated and detached from each other. The pro- cess is allied to inflammation; but it is an abortive form, in so far as it fails to concentrate the action to a definite spot. I hat it takes place in the inflammatory or disorganizing process which succeeds mechanical injury is established by the necrological appearances found in the brain in such circumstances. (Fantoni,