473 BONE. 2d. It appears that several surgeons during the 18th century, as Trioen, Amyand, and Bromfield, when the knowledge of morbid processes was deriving advantage from anatomical enquiry, regaided as instances of spina ventosa, cases which were examples of nekrosis. 3d. It appears that, up to the present time, very great confusion and inaccuracy prevails as to the exact import of the term spina ventosa, which with one set of observers means an ordinary though morbid affection of bone, and with others is employed to designate a malignant or heterologous disease of bone. And 4th. It appears, nevertheless, that all agree in considering enlargement of the bone and expansion of its bony walls as a uni- form result. If we look to specimens in collections, we find that the opinions of surgeons are by no means the same, and present much dis- cordance. Thus we find, in one pathological museum, marked as spina ventosa, a greatly enlarged end of a long bone, the bony wall extruded, and a large irregular cavity formed internally. In other instances, we find placed under the head of spina ventosa in- stances of enlargement of the metacarpal bones and phalanges. In others, again, we find bones with great enlargements, and covered with numerous rough spines and spiculce, considered as spina ven- tosa. In short, every disease of bone not previously referred to a definite place, is accounted by different individuals spina ventosa. From the specimens which I have examined, I think that enlarge- ment of the bone and expansion of its osseous walls must be admit- ted as one character. Two points, however, remain to be deter- mined, which is the agent of this enlargement; and are the new de- posits analogous or heterologous ? In general I think that they are analogous, that its products are those of inflammatory action of a peculiar kind, or at most of misnutrition. They do not, in legiti- mate spina ventosa, appear to be scirrhous or cancerous. The fungous granulations appear to be the product of the medullary web in these particular circumstances. That this is the seat of its action is to be inferred first from the phe- nomena of the disease ; and secondly, from its effects, as seen in dis- eased bones. Spina ventosa never occurs in a bone with distinct me- dullary canal, unless at the epiphyses, where the structure is cancel- lated. When it takes place in these situations, it first induces en- largement of the epiphyses, with extreme pain deep in the bone. Soon after the periosteum becomes thick and swelled; and in no long time satiious matter is found beneath it issuing from the ca?i-