GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1026 Ill the case of the isolated tubercular infiltration, chronic pneu- monia is very common. At least in the cases of that form which have fallen under my own observation, I have observed, that symp- toms altogether like those of pneumonia or peripneumony took place during life, and, upon inspection after death, the usual ap- pearances left by inflammation of the substance of the lung were found.* These tubercles, indeed, do not appear readily to under- go the process of softening, and most usually prove fatal either by being complicated with or inducing pneumonic inflammation. It may be here, mentioned, that, both in simple red or brown and gray consolidation, and when these changes are accompanied by the presence of tubercles, fat-globules and adipose particles may be recognized. The manner in which tubercular masses are softened or broken down and discharged, or wliat may be termed the mechanism of tubercular softening and excavation, has attracted some notice, and deserves consideration. At one time, it was imagined to be either identical with, or analogous to, suppuration in other tissues; and it was supposed that tubercular vomica were merely abscesses of the lungs. But the process, though perhaps analogous to, is not the same with suppuration. It seems to be more complicated, and not so uniform in its progress. It seems to be difficult to ascertain at what part softening commences. In one case it may begin in the centre, and proceed to the circumference; in another it may begin at the circumference, and go round the whole mass, detach- ing it from the surrounding lung; in a third case it may begin at once at the centre, and at the margins; and, in other cases, it has been observed to commence at the same time in several parts of the substance of the tubercular mass. The latter is the course, especi- ally in the case of large tubercular masses. Cerutti,f who enter- tains this opinion, states that, in the section of a tubercular mass in this state, the portion or spots about to be softened appear to lose firmness and to become friable, and, if examined by the mi- croscope, they present numerous minute boles, as it punctured by a needle. This condition extends over the whole mass, until its parts are detached from each other; and minute grains are found amidst a semifluid or fluid opaque mass. While this is proceeding, By D. Craigie, M.D. Edin. Med. and * Two Cases of Tubercular Deposition, &c Surg. Journal, Vol. xliii. p. 2/3. -f- Collectanea qusedam de Phthisi Pulmonum tuberculosa scripsit et in IJniversitate Lipsiae in die xviii. Junii A. C. 183.0, publice defendet. Dr Frid. Petrus Ludovicus Cerutti, Pathologiae et Therapiae Specialis, P. P. 0. Des. Lipsiae, 1839, 4to, , p. 22.