37 FILAMENTOUS OR CELLULAR TISSUE. dry and damp paper. “ If dry,” says he, “ then it will not spread; it will be confined to its point; but if damp, it will spread, being- attracted by the surrounding damp to which it has an affinity,’ (p. 262.) Though this is a mere illustration, and is a statement of a physical, not a physiological phenomenon, it affords no imperfect idea of the distinction between the limited or circumscribed, and the spreading or diffused inflammation. Two circumstances, however, appear to have perplexed the prin- ciples both of this author and of his successors. The first of these was the sense in which the terms erysipelas and erysipelatous in- flammation were to be understood; the second the constant search for final causes, or ultimate intentions. By most physicians and surgeons, previous to the time of Carmichael Smyth and Willan, and even later, every spreading inflammation was termed erysipe- latous, whether it existed in skin, mucous membrane, serous mem- brane, or cellular tissue; and the character of nomenclature was derived, not from the texture, but from the supposed nature of the morbid process. This practice, if not positively wrong, was at- tended with confusion in arrangement and description ; and it is well that the general usage of correct pathologists has now re- stricted the term to inflammation of a particular tissue. The second source of confusion in the views of Hunter consisted in his regarding the exudation of lymph as an invariable barrier against the diffusion of the morbid process. This exudation doubtless constitutes the character of the limited form of inflammation ; but Hunter appears to have forgotten that, in certain circumstances, as in the sort of inflammation now considered, this barrier does not exist, and the morbid process therefore spreads, or is diffused over the membrane. It is further evident from what he says, (p. 271, 272, and 367,) that he regarded the spreading inflammation of the cellular membrane as erysipelas attacking that tissue, and that he considered its pathological peculiarity to consist in the absence of iymphy effusion, and the consequent want of limitation. Though it may be disputing about a name only, to question this, it is per- haps better to regard this form of inflammation as entirely different from erysipelas, which must be referred to the outer surface of the coiion; and to represent it as a process tending to spread without adequate effusion of coagulable lymph. Another point in the pathology of this disorder may be here noticed. Certain facts favour the notion, that it consists in affec-