276 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. mined, to consist of globules immediately beneath the pia mater, and of fibres at a greater depth. In the seventh month a section of the ventricles shows very distinct layers of radiating fibres. Af- ter these are seen new ones, which form convolutions, and which are termed converging fibres. At the ninth month the organiza- tion is complete. The gray substance appears a long time after the white. At the end of the sixth or seventh month this substance is formed in the olivary eminences, which then assume their proper appearance; about the end of gestation the spinal chord is also filled with gray matter, and about the ninth month this substance is distinctly seen in the convolutions, the plates of the cerebellum, &c. These re- sults are much like those of Serres, unless as to what regards the brain proper, in which, according to this anatomist, the optic cham- bers and striated bodies consist originally of gray substance entirely, to which white cerebral matter is afterwards added. Of the process of growth, the principal, indeed the sole agent is the vascular membrane; (meninx tenuis, pia mater et plexus eho- roides: das Geffasshaut.) The two divisions of this, viz. the ex- ternal, or that belonging to the convoluted surface, and the inter- nal, or that pertaining to the figurate, may be distinguished pre- vious to the formation of any part of the brain, and when the two portions, which are afterwards destined to be separate, are the same, and indistinguishable from each other. The formation of the organ appears to commence at once upon two orders of vessels mutually looking towards each other; that which is to be the cen- tral (plexus choroides) being merely a mesh of vessels looking to that which is to be peripheral, (pia mater.) The first portions of newly deposited cerebral matter form the barrier between these extremities, which continue to be more widely parted, as the process of development advances. This membrane is then more vascular than at any subsequent period. The cerebral matter is first depo- sited soft, and firmly adherent to these vessels, which are ramified in every direction through its substance. It becomes firmer after- wards and less vascular the longer the period from deposition. Hence the two surfaces, the outer and inner, are much softer and more pulpy, and more firmly attached to the vessels, than the in- termediate deep matter. Tiedemann appears to regard the process of development as proceeding from the centre to the circumference. This is correct, but not in the exact sense in which he understands it. The centre is not in this case the figurate surface of the