ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 109 tinued for about eight days, and after that time gradually subsided. Pulsation returned feebly to the radial artery, but not to the hu- meral. The patient after some time recovered, and remained well for years, though with some feebleness and numbness in the left arm. Though I have not the evidence of dissection, therefore, yet I infer that this was obstruction in the humeral artery, probably by slight inflammation taking place in its coats and causing effusion of lymph, and the formation of an obstructing clot of blood. A case very similar, illustrated by inspection of the parts, is given by Dr Graves in the Dublin Hospital Reports, Vol. V. p. 1; (case of Patrick Magrath), and one without inspection by Dr Gairdner in the Edinburgh Meclico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. III. Obstruction of arteries may also ensue as the effect of external pressure, as the effect of tumours increasing in size and encroach- ing on the space occupied by the artery. Thus when a small ar- tery, as the temporal, is opened and afterwards subjected to com- pression, in general its interior is obstructed, sometimes adhering and obliterated. Encephaloid tumours of the chest or abdomen compress and obstruct the abdominal aorta; exostosis of the ver- tebrae compress the thoracic and abdominal aorta and obstruct the interior; exostoses of the cranium and tumours within the brain have been observed to compress and obstruct the branches of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries; and I have seen in tumours of the uterus and cancerous swellings the posterior iliac artery and its branches closed and its interior obstructed. 13. Obliteration. From complete obstruction the transition to obliteration of arteries is easy. The result is the same; but the mode in which it is accomplished is different. In obstruction the closure or impediment is caused by the presence either of new growths or blood and lymph within the artery and the arterial tunics. In ob- literation the impediment or arctation of the canal is caused not so much by internal growths as by the approximation of the arterial walls, in consequence of external pressure, or some similar agent, lienee the cases of obstruction which I mentioned at the close of the preceding paragraph may be regarded as examples of obliteration. Of obliteration of arteries there are several forms and sorts; and the accident may take place in any artery almost, of any class. It is nevertheless more frequent in vessels of the second, third, and fourth class, for very obvious reasons, than in those of the first class. Arteries become obliterated in consequence of pressure of any kind, the presence of coagula in their interior either in consequence of