NERVOUS TISSUE. 389 much as to present a faint brownish tint. This colour, with the severe pains which totally prevented sleep for months, made it be taken by several medical men for cancerous. Tt was encysted, and its removal was followed by sound sleep, which lasted that day and the ensuing night and day.* Some years ago I saw, in the arm of a woman about thirty, an oblong pyriform hard body, extending along the inner margin of the biceps Jiexor, in the site of the brachial vessels and nerves, to the anterior tuberosity of the humerus. It was attended with prickling pain, and alternating with numbness of the arm, fore-arm, and fin- gers. From these symptoms (Home,) the absence of pulsation and its situation, no doubt could be entertained that it implicated the brachial nerve. The woman refused, however, to submit to have it removed ; and I have not since heard of her. The evidence of dissection as to its precise nature is therefore still wanting. It is not easy to determine which of these tumours are to be re- garded as common, or proper to the nervous chord or the neurile- matic tissue. It is manifest that the case of Cheselden, and perhaps that of Gooch, and the second one of Home, wTere common. That of Odier, and the first of Home, appear to have been seated either in the neurileina, or its celhdar tissue, and probably consisted in deposition of new matter in the interstices of the neurilematic canals. In the former case the filaments of the nerve are more or less expanded and separated. In the latter they pass through the body of the tumour in a mass. The anatomical structure of these tumours is probably most fully illustrated by a case recorded by Alexander, in which a tumour as large as a ben’s egg was removed from the left arm of a soldier of 19 years of age, and in whom it was believed to be seated in the ulnar nerve. In this case the neurilema formed an external cap- sule. The ulnar nerve divided longitudinally for nearly half an inch above the tumour was found sound, to the point where it was dilated; as it was also sound below the tumour, where in like manner about half an inch of the nerve was removed by the incisions, which embraced the longitudinal extent of four inches. The colour of the tumour was the same as that of the nerve, though more brilliant. 1 he naked eye distinguished longitudinal fibres, invested by some transverse fibres. It was hard to the touch, elastic, and it was then observed to enclose a liquid. When divided longitudinally, the external wall was more rcsist- * Nouveau Journal de Medecine, Nov. 1818.