139 SYSTEM OF CAPILLARY VESSELS, &C. state; and when it moves slowly, or is retarded, and stops or re- trogrades, as is occasionally seen, this is unnatural, and if continu- ed for any time constitutes a morbid state. This is further con- firmed by the results of the experiments made by Kaltenbrunner, who ascertained that in inflammation and similar morbid states, the blood not only moved more slowly, but formed what he called stases, or points of immobility and stagnation. The second doctrine, that the distended or dilated state of the capillaries is to be ascribed to weakness or debility in their coats, appears to be more consonant with the usual phenomena of the process, and with the effects which it produces in the different tis- sues. But although much has been lately done by Wilson Philip, Hastings, and others, to determine this point, it is still beset with some difficulties and objections, and would perhaps require some variation in the experiments, in order to place the subject in the clearest light. This hypothesis first originated with Vacca Ber- linghieri, and was supported in this country by Lubbock, Allen, Reeve, Thomson, Wilson Philip, and subsequently by Hastings and Black, and receives some confirmation from the experiments of Kaltenbrunner, who has given the most complete set of observations on this subject. This author regards congestion as a preliminary stage of inflammation, and he therefore considers in connection the phenomena presented by both. Congestion he considers as a process increasing from an initial point; proceeding to a certain degree of development; and abat- ing and disappearing. In the first stage the following is the state. The congestion accumulated to one point is thence extended to the circumference. Thither the blood flows ; its motion is quickened; the walls of the vessels are tense; the globules of arterial blood are no longer changed into venous ; they are altered ; the paren- chyma is swelled. This state of the vessels takes place at the same time in all points of the organ which is the seat of congestion. Not only is the cir- culation of the blood altered. I he blood itself, the parenchyma, and the arterial walls partake in the common affection. The nor- mal functions of the organ are impeded; the formation and absorp- tion of lymph are in general interrupted. The affection advances to different degrees of intensity accord- ing to the nature and severity of the lesion by which it is produced. The afflux of blood is more or less abundant; its motion more or