541 SKIN. was understood by Morgagni,* Haller, Plenck,f and Monteggia,$ and has been recently revived by Sir Astley Cooper. § § 2. Keloid or Cheloid Tumour; (Kelis\\ Cheloidea.)—This name has been applied by M. Alibertto a peculiar tumour of the skin, which bears a resemblance to the scar or discoloured, irregular, and puck- ered cicatrix of a burn, or any sore which has healed in similar circumstances. In shape it is oval or cylindrical, generally ele- vated above the level of the skin. The colour is of various shades of red, sometimes deep-red, wine-red, or pink-coloured, and some- times only flesh-red. The surface is irregular, that is, elevated into eminences, with intermediate depressions; and often it is seamed or scarred. In general, it is a little firmer than the surrounding skin; but in some cases it presents a sort of velvet-like or spongy softness, which allows it to be pressed. From the margins of the tumour occasionally proceed processes like the feet of an animal; and this circumstance, with its irregular appearance in general, has been supposed to be the reason, why it is occasionally called the cheloid or crab-like tumour. The keloid tumour may consist of one, two, or three portions, the lateral margins of which are deeply implanted in the skin. The surface is hard and in general resisting, communicating a sensation quite different from that of the sound skin. It is void of pulsation, and in this respect differs from cutaneous ncevas. The origin of this disease, and the causes on which its formation depends, are not well known. It is rarely congenital. When it first appears, it is small, but is liable to enlarge in extent. It pro- ceeds, however, very slowly; and months or years may elapse be- * Adversaria Anatomica. t “ Sedes meliceridis,” says Plenck, «in glandula subcutanea esse videtur. Quic- quid ergo porum excretorium glandula subcutanea obdurat, contentum succum in- spissat, vel ejus absorptionem impedit, meliceridem producere valet.” Systema Tumo- rum, Cl. vii. p. 153. Vienna, 1767. + Istituzione Chirargiche, Volume ii. § Surgical Essays, Part 2. II It is quite uncertain whether this term should be written Cheloid or Keloid M Alibert, to whose neological talents we are indebted for the term, gives the followin >' synonymes. Kolos ; Cheloide ; Cancroide ; Tubcrculcs durs ; CancelU ; Cancroma- Cancre blanc; Lc Crake. If the name be derived from the supposed resemblance to the crab, then the orthography is Cheloid. On the other hand, the term Kalis, Macula, a spot, was used by various ancient authors to signify a foul scar or ulcerated mark • and as one of the characters of the keloid tumour is, that its surface and margins’ sometimes resemble theacaVrvc of a burn, this may be with most propriety regarded as the term from which the denomination for this cutaneous affection should be taken