BONE. 433 chalikophora, or earth-bearing organs. He allows, however, that it is impossible on this subject to speak with certainty. Miescher states the following conclusions: 1st, The spongy or cancellated tissue is nothing but enlarged canaliculi, 2d, The medullary canal, as to formation and signification, must be regard- ed as the union of such canaliculi. 3d, The canals, therefore, sur- rounded by concentric lamellae, and containing marrow, furnished with abundant blood-vessels, are the primary form of the osseous tissues completed by growth.* In these results there is nothing new. Indeed, the only new fact in the whole is the existence of the corpuscula. The idea of lamellae is not new. Their existence was maintained by Cfagliardi, Havers, Reichel, Blumenbach, and Soemmering; and it may be doubted if the opinion be well founded. As to the corpuscula, they are stated to exist in the primary or ossifying cartilage or callus; and it is very probable that they in some manner contribute to the formation of bone, as it is even- tually observed to exist. Though bone has been submitted to analysis by many eminent chemists, the results hitherto obtained cannot be said to be quite satisfactory. The most complete is that of Berzelius, who, in 100 si parts of bone from the thigh of an adult, gives the following pro- Oj portions: of gelatine, 32.17; blood-vessels, 1.13; phosphate of lime, 51.04 ; carbonate of lime, 11.30 ; fluate of lime, 2.00 ; phos- phate of magnesia, 1.16 ; hydrochlorate of soda and water, 120. These results by no means agree with those obtained by Four- croy and Vauquelin, who found neither fluoric acid nor phosphate of magnesia, but discovered oxides of iron and manganese, silica? and alumina, in bone. The statement of Berzelius regarding the presence of fluate of lime has, on the other hand, been confirmed by Dr George Wilson, who found it in recent bones of the human body, and in those of various mammalia, and in fossil bones. Sulphate of lime, which was found in the experiments of Hat- chett, was shown by Berzelius to be formed during calcination. It is, however, obvious that a little more than a third part of bone consists ot animal matter, which appears ,to he either entirely gelatine, or a modification of that principle; and that the remain- ' der, nearly equal to two-thirds, consists of earthy matter, which is chiefly phosphoric acid combined with lime. From the experiments of Dr Rees it results that |ths are earthy matter; and *ths are Do Inflammationc Ossium, corumquc Anatomc Generate. Exercitatio Anatomi- u eo Patliologica. Auctore Friderico Miescher, Med. et Chirurgia: Doct., cum Tabulis H Quatuor Aeneis. Berolini, 1836. 4to. e e ■ wL