GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 698 other traces of the process cannot be recognized. It is from this circumstance that dulness of the arachnoid denotes, with great cer- tainty, serous effusion within the cerebral cavities. ยง 2. At the same time, red vessels may appear either in isolated spots or over a considerable extent. They are generally arborescent or parted into minute ramifications. Sometimes they consist of mi- nute red lines, radiating from a point like stars; and in other in- stances they form a confused net-work of red vessels, interspersed with bloody points and spots, amounting occasionally to extrava- sation. These vessels, which, though placed in the substance of the membranes, gradually approach the surface as the process ad- vances, are not newly developed, but appear to be the colourless capillaries of the sound state of the membranes injected with red blood. These changes, which may be regarded as the essence of the first stage of inflammation in serous membranes, are best ob- served in the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum. In these they are sometimes so intense and general, as to give the membranes a red mottled appearance, and prevent the observer from distinguish- ing the subjacent tissue. ยง 3. After existing for some time, varying in different circumstances (from 6 to 20 hours in the -pleura and peritonaeum,) these changes are followed by others, which may be regarded as their effects. The first and most important of these is the formation of a new fluid at the free or unadherent surface of the membrane. The na- ture of this fluid varies according to the stage, and perhaps the kind of inflammation. I shall describe first that which takes place in the commencement of the acute form. a. The capillary injection of the inflammatory process is scarcely well established when it begins to cause a semitransparent fluid to ooze in small quantity from the affected points of the surface of these membranes. In this state the characters of the fluid can scarcely be determined. In a more advanced stage of the process, when it is abundant, it is a straw-coloured, homogeneous, semi- transparent fluid, which, as it is effused, undergoes spontaneous coagulation. This consists in part of the fluid assuming a solid form in the shape of a semifluid jelly-like layer of variable thick- ness, with a rough honey-comb surface exteriorly, where it is in contact with the membranes, and interiorly with thready filaments mutually interlacing, and more or less consistent. A thin fluid portion at the same time is found in the interstices of these fila-