GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 104 as a uniform result of transverse division, he has recourse to the supposition of a peculiar force and action to account for the cessa- tion of hemorrhage. He denies the necessity of ligature in any case, and proposes to leave large as well as small vessels untied. His arguments are manifestly derived from the phenomena of the division of small arteries only, and cannot therefore be justly ap- plied to large ones. I have already shown, that in the case of the former the annular contraction is the main agent of the cessation of hemorrhage; and to this, I conceive, corresponds the peculiar force to which Dr Koch ascribes that process.* When an artery is lacerated or forcibly rent asunder, the same process of injection, coagulation, retraction, and annular constric- tion take place, but more powerfully and more speedily than in the case of the same artery divided transversely by a cutting instru- ment. The external clot especially is formed very rapidly; the internal one is large and extensive ; and the annular contraction of the lacerated vessel is much more considerable. (Guthrie and others.) These circumstances afford an explanation of the well- established fact, that any artery, when forcibly rent asunder, bleeds infinitely less than the same vessel completely divided by a trans- verse incision. So uniform is this fact, that arteries of moderate size have been torn by a transverse laceration without effusing more than a few drops of blood. 10. Aneurismal Varix. It sometimes happens that an artery sub- jacent to, and in immediate contact with a vein, is punctured by the same instrument with which the vein has been perforated, and the wound thus inflicted establishes between the two vessels a commu- nication, through which the blood passes from the one to the other. Thus, from want of caution on the part of the operator, it may happen that in venesection at the bend of the arm, the lancet may not only transfix the vein, but wound the subjacent artery. The blood flows from the latter into the former with a peculiar hissing noise, and dilates it into a sack which disappears on pressure, but returns when the pressure is removed. The tumour thus formed, which depends on the wound of the arterial and venous tunic re- maining open while their sides are in contact, was first distinguish- ed as a peculiar affection by William Hunter,f and is known un- der the name of aneurismal varix. It may occur in any part of * Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenlieilkunde von Graefe und Walther, p. .9, t. 560. f Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. II. p. 396, 400.