TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. bOo moires de l’Academie Itoyale tie Medecinc, Tome ivieme. Paris, 1035. 4to. P. 117. The pulmonary parenchyma round an obliterated bronchus may present two morbid states. It may be either consolidated, dense, and firm, as already mentioned, or it may be emphysematous, that is, containing air in the pulmonic cellular tissue, or in the shape of bladders beneath the pleura. In some instances both states are associated. Immediately round the seat of the obliteration the lung is firm and dense, with shrivelling of the pleura and pulmonic sur- face ; and beyond this dense spot again the surface of the lungs is pale, white, crepitating, and emphysematous; and two 01 moie air- bladders are formed beneath the pleura. Lastly, it is not unusual to find the upper lobe presenting shrivelled patches, and the indi- cations of obliterated bronchial tubes; and the middle and lower lobes to be pale, white, crepitating, and more or less extensively emphysematous. The blood-vessels are not obliterated; except in the minute branches distributed through the indurated portion. The solid filaments, the relics of the obliterated tubes, are gene- rally of a deep black colour. The causes of obliteration of the bronchial tubes are not posi- tively ascertained. All that is known is this; that obliteration takes place in persons who had laboured under severe, repeated, or long-continued attacks of bronchial inflammation, usually chronic, and those who had attacks of chronic pneumonia. Reynaud is in- clined to ascribe tbe occurrence of the lesion to diphtheral or albu- mino-facient inflammation of the bronchi; and there is no doubt that the bronchial membrane is liable to this form of inflammation, and that this form of inflammation may produce or terminate in obliteration. He admits also that he has met with cases of acute ■pneumonia with hepatization of the lung, in which the lesion con- sisted in inflammation, which had in all the small bronchi given rise to the formation of false membranes, which filled more or less ac- curately all their cavities.'* From what I have myself seen, I ascribe the lesion either, as al- ready stated, to severe and repeated attacks of chronic bronchitis, or to the effects of chronic pneumonia. A lady pi’esented the usual symptoms of very severe chronic bronchitis; that is, cough, expectoration of muco-purulent matter, with hectic fever, and pulse varying from 110 to 120. There was £ Memoire sur l’Obliteration ties Bronches. Par A. .C. Reynaud, D. M., &c. Mo