DIVISION OF THE TEXTURES. 3 tiraate structure and properties of the several animal textures. In general, however, these notices are meagre and scanty. Sometimes they are too generalizing, and hastily refer every variety of texture to one or two hypothetical elements; too often they consist of fan- ciful conjectures substituted for accurate observation ; and they are never so clear and satisfactory as to afford useful instruction to the pathological inquirer. Marcello Malpighi, born in 1628, professor of medicine succes- sively in the universities of Bologna, of Pisa, and of Messina, and finally invited to Rome as physician to Innocent XII., was the first anatomist in whose hands the knowledge of intimate structure be- came a science of accurate observation. In this manner (1660) he investigated assiduously the minute structure of the lungs and the disposition of their vessels; he examined the omentum, (1661), and inquired into the manner in which fat and marrow are secreted; he studiously endeavoured (1665) to unfold by dissection and mi- croscopical observation the minute structure of the brain; he de- monstrated the organization of the skin, and considered its con- stituents as the organ of touch; he studied the structure of bone, and exposed the errors of Gagliardi; he traced the formation and explained the structure of the teeth; and he finally carried his researches into the substance of the liver, the spleen, the kidneys, and the conglobate glands, (1666.) In these delicate and difficult inquiries, the observations of Malpighi are in general faithful to nature, and his descriptions accurate. The information which he collected was new and curious, and it is communicated in perspi- cuous language, and in an interesting manner. He may be justly regarded as the founder of that part of anatomical science which treats of structure and organization ; and even in the present day his writings on this subject are by no means destitute either of in- terest or instruction. About the same time (1641) the researches of De Graaf and Ruysch tended to throw some light on the intimate structure of several organs. De Graaf, who was young, while Malpighi was declining in years, (1664), studied particularly the structure of the pancreas, and of the organs of generation in both sexes, (1668), and at once lcmoved many popular errors, and communicated a large proportion of accurate information. Had he not been cut off at the early age of thirty-two, (1673), it cannot be doubted that