872 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. ferent luxations were observed, no viscus, not even the brain, suf- fered more than the liver from these violent concussions produced artificially by falls. It is easy to see that this explanation is the same, in one circum- stance, as that given in 1766 by Cheston. The explanation of Richerand was very generally received, both in France and in various countries of Europe. That the explanation, nevertheless, was unsatisfactory and ina- dequate, appears from the fact, that hepatic abscesses are observed in the case of injuries of the bead, in which the individual had sus- tained no fall, and his person had received no shock, except the blow on the skull, and in injuries and especially compound fractures of the extremities. Though Curtet had, at the end of last century, made a consi- derable advance in the right line of inquiry on this subject, it was not till near thirty years after, that the explanation, which may be regarded as the correct one, was given. Mr Arnott showed, in a paper read to the Medico-Chirurgical Society in 1828, that, when the phenomena of injuries of the skull or other external parts are followed by suppuration or abscess within the liver, there is every reason to believe that the veins of the former part are inflamed, and that, in consequence of this venous inflammation, secondary deposits take place in the liver. Mr Arnott showed, in short, that second- ary deposits take place in this way both in the abdominal and the thoracic viscera, and sometimes in both sets of organs at once. Pie further showed, that the injury which the head had sustained con- sisted, in two-thirds of the cases, of fracture or fissure of the skull, in all compound; and though, in one-third, the skull was neither fractured nor fissured, yet with wound of the soft parts, in several, part of the outer table and diploe had been sliced off, while in all the bone was exposed. As inflammation of the osseous substance must, in all these cases, have existed, Mr Arnott infers that this process taking place in the numerous veins ramifying between the two tables of the skull, and in those distributed to the soft parts externally, may be attended with similar consequences to those which follow phlebitis in other parts; that is, collections of matter jn internal organs.* Cruveilhier subsequently showed, that injuries affecting bones, * A Pathological Inquiry into the Secondary Effects of Inflammation of the Veins; by Janies Arnott, surgeon. Medico-Chirurgical Transac. Vol. xv. p. i. London, 1•