105 ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. the vascular system in which a vein lies immediately ovei an aite- rial trunk. In most of the cases hitherto recorded it has continued for years (live, Hunter, Cleghorn ; fourteen, Hunter, Scarpa, Bell; twenty-five, thirty-five, Bell, Hunter;) without serious in- convenience. 11. Varicose aneurism. In the case of an artery lying beneath, but not in immediate contact with a vein, or in the case of the wound being oblique and the puncture of the vein not corresponding to that of the artery, the same accident is followed with another va- riety of tumour. The blood from the arterial tube flows partly into the sheath, which is distended into a sac, and partly into the vein, which is morbidly dilated. The tumour thus resulting, the anato- mical characters of which are a circumscribed aneurism between the artery and vein, and a varicose state of the latter, has been dis- tinguished as varicose aneurism.* The filamentous sheath, though not proper to the arterial tissue, performs, nevertheless, an important part in the morbid states of arteries, whether spontaneous or resulting from injuries. It has been already shown what is its influence in the production of ge- nuine aneurism, in the suppression of hemorrhage, and in the for- mation of the several varieties of false or spurious aneurismal tu- mours. It is liable further to the same forms of inflammatory ac- tion as attack this tissue in other parts of the animal frame. But inflammation here is often attended with the bad effect of produc- ing ulceration of the middle coat, and laceration succeeded by he- morrhage more or less violent, according to the size of the vessel. This process, which depends on the destruction of the nutrient ves- sels (vasa vusorum) transmitted in the filamentous coat, may suc- ceed any injury inflicted on the neighbouring parts, as contused wounds, burns, phagedenic sores, especially those in lymphatic glands, the application of improper ligatures, especially broad tapes, and the use of foreign bodies as pads, presse-arferes and scrre-ar- teres in the neighbourhood of an artery. Removal of the filamen- tous sheath, partly or entirely, is not unfrequcntly followed with the same effect. This, however, must be understood to apply chiefly to the human subject. In the lower animals the filamentous sheath may be removed without injuring the proper and inner membrane. * Paik in Medical Facts and Observations, Vol. IV. p. 11], Physick in Medical Museum, Philadelphia, Vol. I. p. 65.