435 BONE. long bones to the medullary cavity, (arteries nutntice, arteries me- dullar es ;) the second, those which go to the cellular structure of the bone; and the third, those which go to the compact or dense matter of the bone. This view is only partially correct. The large vessels termed nutritious certainly proceed chiefly to the cavity of the bone, and are distributed in the medullary membrane. These, however, are not the only vessels which proceed to this part of the bone. First, I have often traced several large vessels, entering not by the middle, but the ends of the long bones, into the loose can- cellated texture, and actually distributed on the medulla in this part of the bone. In dried bones also the canals of these vessels may be demonstrated extending from the surface to the body of the bone. Secondly, the nutritious vessels are not constant; and when they are wanting, those of the ends of the bone, or of the cancelli, Iare much larger and more numerous than in ordinary circum- stances. The communication between these and the branches of the nutritious vessels, which is admitted by Bichat, may be easily demonstrated. The third order of vessels are those which may be termed periosteal, in so far as they consist of an infinite number of minute capillaries, some red, some colourless, proceeding from the periosteum to the bone, and contributing to maintain the connec- tion between the two. The short bones and the flat bones, which are destitute of nutritious arteries, receive blood from the two latter orders, but principally from the periosteal vessels. In the skull these vessels are often highly injected in apoplectic subjects, and in persons killed by drowning or strangulation. The veins of bones are peculiar in their arrangement. The nu- tritious artery is accompanied by a social vein; the articular and pe- riosteal vessels are said to bo destitute of corresponding venous ves- sels. According to Dupuytren, however, minute venous capillaries arise from the substance of the osseous tissue, precisely as in other tissues, and, uniting in the same manner, form twigs, branches, and trunks, which finally terminate in the neighbouring veins. Lymphatics are not found in the substance of bones. Bichat, however, thinks analogically, that nutrition implies exhalation and absorption ; but it is manifest that this does not demonstrate the existence of true lymphatics. Nerves in like manner have not been traced into this substance.* To complete the anatomical history of bone, it is requisite to examine shortly the marrow. The interior of the long bones con- On these points see Scarpa, dr: Anatome ct Pathnlogia Ossium Comment, p. 38, Nc. ; and Howship, Med. Chir. Tr. Vol. VIII. p. GC.