GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 410 calcareous matter is given by Renaudin in the person of a man of 33, subject to violent palpitation. The substance of the left ven- tricle was infiltrated with sabulous and crystalline grains. This calcareous deposition must not be confounded with ossified pericar- dium,—the usual example of ossified heart. 8. Accidental productions and tumours.—Muscular structure is liable to tubercular deposition, to scirrho-carcinoma, to lardaceous degeneration, (keroma), to encephaloid tumours, and to the mela- notic deposit, (Cullen.) Serous cysts {hygroma) are said to be rare; but they have occasionally been observed. 9. Parasitical animals have been observed in the muscles of the human subject. The solitary hydatid (cysticercus celluloses) is not uncommon.* The latter especially has been seen in the trapezius, serratus posticus, psoas, iliacus, glutaeus, and other large muscles, (Werner, Rudolphi,) and in the heart by Morgagni, (xxi. 4.) Por- tal, Mr Price, and Mr Evans. Mr D. Price found in the muscular substance of the heart of a boy of ten years, who expired suddenly, a large hydatid, of the cha- racter of which no details are given. There is good reason, never- theless, for believing that it was an acephalocyst.f More satisfac- tory information is given in the history of another case recorded by Mr Herbert R. Evans. In this case, which took place in a female aged 40, of slender frame and weakly appearance, the individual became languid and feeble, and unable to ascend an acclivity or a staircase without breathlessness. Occasionally she felt a sort of sharp pain darting, as it were, through the heart. These feelings lasted for five or six months; when, in consequence of attempting, on the 20th April, to run up stairs quickly, she wras attacked with a paroxysm of great dyspnoea, accompanied with throbbing and pain in the region of the heart. These symptoms continued with little intermission for six weeks; and death took place on the 1st of June. The cavity of the pericardium contained about one ounce of fluid. The membrane was covered by lymph over part of the ante- rior surface. The apex of the heart was lost or rendered round and obtuse in a considerable tumour, which communicated to the touch a sense of fluctuation. This tumour, which formed a consi- * Bremser, Traite Zoologique, xi. p. 280. •(■ Case of Sudden Death, in which a large Hydatid was found in the Substance of the Heart. By David Price, Esq. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol, XI. p. 274. London, 1821.