529 SKIN. though it does not preclude the formation of ulcerated openings, it may take place without them. According to my own observa- tion, death takes place most generally in patches of the corion, which may afterwards burst as it were by distension ; ulceration takes place at points which have not been killed, and in general at the union of the dead and living skin. There is no ground for believing that the subcutaneous cellular membrane is killed by the confinement of matter in its cells, as Hunter imagines. The ordinary mode in which this appears to take place is by the spreading inflammation of the corion, extending along its lower surface, and producing death, as it appears to do in diffuse inflammation, in which it spreads and does not readily cause suppuration. Upon the whole, it may be concluded that the corion is the pri- mary seat of disease in carbuncle, and that the affection of the cel- lular membrane, with which it is uniformly accompanied, is the ef- fect of inflammation of the corial tissue spreading to the adipose membrane. 4. Diseases affecting chiejly the sebaceous follicles.—These, which are acne, sykosis, and molluscum, show the influence of texture or the elements of the skin affected. The whelk (acne; ionthos; varus, vari, Celsus ;) consists of mi- nute portions of corion, round, oval, or spheroidal, hard, circum- scribed, and elevated. Of the four sorts enumerated by Bateman, three only, the simple (A. simplex), the inveterate (A. inclurata), and the crimson (A. rosacea), can be considered as examples of in- flammation of the substance of the corion ; and even these are affec- tions of the cutaneous follicles. d. Acne simplex and Acne indurata are manifestly affections seat- ed in the sebaceous follicles of the skin, and appear to consist partly in changed secretion in the surface of these minute glands, partly in chronic inflammation of the substance of the glands. They may appear either on the face or on the person. Their character is that of small tumours or tubercles, mostly ovoidal, si- tuate in the follicles, the orifices of which are swelled and closed. hey are chronic in duration and slow in progress; and often, when they begin to appear, they continue to distress the patient for years. Their appearance is believed to be connected with some deranged state of the alimentary function. When this eruption appears on the person, it is chiefly the pos- L I