663 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. foul ulcers, surrounded with much redness, and secreting thin o - fensive matter. Similar aphthae also appear on the skin ot the mons veneris, perinoeum, and adjoining parts.* Though the disease is often fatal by the severity of the constitutional disorder, in some instances, after the sloughs are cast, effusion of lymph and granu- lation may take place, and, unless much care is taken in dressing, great part of the vaginal orifice and the labia are united perma- nently, leaving only a small orifice for the escape of the urine. In this manner the vagina is not unfrequently closed so as to simulate congenital imperforation. It appears from the account of Mr Wood, that this inflammation is confined chiefly to the labia, the nymphos, the clitoris, and hymen ; and it does not seem to affect the vagina. In a medico-legal point of view it is important to distinguish this disease from the effects of violation, with which it has been confounded. III. Hemorrhage.—In the mucous membranes hemorrhage is frequent; and though none of them can be said to be exempt from it, it is most common in the Schneiderian or nasal membrane, in the pulmonic, intestinal, and uterine mucous surfaces. In the hemor- rhagic form of land-scurvy, (purpura hoemorrhagica), with the bloody spots on the outer surface of the corion of simple purpura, are combined spots and hemorrhage from almost all the mucous surfaces. Of the hemorrhages of the mucous membranes the fol- lowing table may be given:— Nasal passages, Mouth, Bronchial membrane, Stomach, Ileum and colon, Rectum, Bladder, Urethra, Womb, Epistaxis. Slomacace, Haemoptysis, Hcematemesis, Melcena; Dysentery, Hcemorrhois, Hvematu/ria, Pnetmonorrhayia. Gastrorrhagia. Enterorrhagia. Proctorrhagia. Cystii-rhagia. Urethrorrh agia. Menorrhagia. In these several regions of the mucous surfaces, the pathology of hemorrhage, which has been already partially considered, is much the same. The discharge of blood or bloody fluid from any of the mucous membranes is not so much a disease of itself as one of the effects of some degree or variety of the inflammatory process. Thus blood is discharged from the bronchial membrane during bronchial inflammation; from the gastric mucous membrane dur- * History of a very fatal affection of the pudenda of female children, by Kinder