GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 94 tem ; and it is said to be equally common in branches as in trunks. It may occur in the radial artery, in the temporal, or in the tibial. By Cowper and Naish it was found in the arteries of the leg in the course of amputation.* I have seen it in the radial and ulnar in tying the vessels of an amputated fore-arm ; and in the femoral and several of the perforating branches of the thigh under the same circumstances. It is, however, most commonly found in the arch of the aorta, or in some of the branches which issue from it. Many cases of its occurrence in the coronary arteries have been recorded. (Crell, Erdmann, Frank, and Parry.) Nor isitconfinedto thearterial tubes only; for it is seen in that part of the pellucid arterial membrane which forms the valves, and lines the inside of the left ventricle, and is frequently found to take place in the semilunar and mitral valves. The nature of this deposition has given rise to various specula- tions. But this variance has partly arisen from the practice of confounding it with the steatomatous deposition. It is said to dif- fer from osseous matter in two circumstances. First, The deposi- tion is earthy from the first, without any previous matrix of animal matter. Secondly, It is destitute of the usual fibrous structure, and presents an irregular but homogeneous crust without any ob- vious arrangement. It consists, however, of the usual combina- tion of animal matter and bone earth. A specimen analyzed by Mr Brande gave 65-5 parts of phosphate of lime, and 34-5 of ani- mal matter in the 100 parts. The latter was chiefly albumen, with traces of gelatine. Calcareous deposition may take place at any period of life, but is supposed to be most common in advanced age. Portal, Scarpa, and Hodgson, mention instances of its occurrence in young sub- jects. According to Stevens, it is more common to find the arte- ries ossified than healthy after the 30th ycar.f But this statement is probably delivered in too general terms, and from too limited a collection of cases. Baillie restricts its occurrence as a general phenomenon to the period after the 60th year ;i and this corre- sponds with the inference of Bichat, who states, that in ten subjects seven at least present these incrustations after the 60th year.ยง Its influence on the circulation varies at different periods of life, and according to its extent and situation. In the aged it is said to * Philosophical Transactions, No. 285, p. 1391, and No. 3G9, p. 226. f Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. V. p. 133. ยฃ Transactions of a Society for the Improvement, &c., Vol. I. p. 133. ยง Anatomic Generale, Vol. II. p. 292.