general and pathological anatomy. 878 bone and heal the living one, gave rise to the formation of matter, which was conveyed by the vessels of the bone by the veins to the liver. Secondly, as this purulent collection was then forming within the liver, it was struck with sphakelus, most likely in conse- quence of the previous mortified and sloughing state of the wound in the throat. It is necessary to distinguish gangrene of the liver from those changes in colour,—blue, black, dark-green, dark-brown, mottled dark-green and brown, which are so common in this organ. These colours are effects of mere death changes. No change in colour, without an evident change in consistence and demolition of struc- ture, can be received as indicating the presence of gangrene. It has been supposed that hemorrhage may be the cause of gan- grene. It seems rather the effect in the majority of cases. § 4. Malakosis.—Softening of the Liver has been observed, in certain circumstances, to take place. The substance of the liver is then soft, friable, easily torn and broken down between tbe fin- gers ; and, in some instances, the change in cohesion is so great, that the hepatic substance resembles softened spleen. Dr Marshall met in Ceylon with instances of softening of the liver without other remarkable change. In other instances the parenchyma was granular, and broke down between the fingers, while the peritoneal coat came away with unusual facility. He mentions one case in which the liver was softened in such a man- ner in a patient with dysentery, that the pulpy substance resembled hasty pudding. The liver weighed in this case pounds—more than double the average. In all such cases the softening is the effect of a species of vascular congestion or orgasm. Of this lesion, Andral distinguishes two varieties,—one indi- cated by the red colour of the hepatic substance; the other by a pale or whitish colour. In the former, the substance presented the appearance of softened spleen ; in the latter, of a species of gray coloured pap, and with little blood in the tissue. In the former case, the softening appeared to be the effect of inflammation of the peritoneum, general and hepatic. In the latter case, it appeared to be the result of lesion of nutrition ; as the gall-bladder contained not bile, but colourless and insipid serum. The latter also appears to be more chronic in its progress and duration than the former.* § 5. Hepatic Phlebitis Inflammation of the veins of the liver is not very frequent; and when abscesses and purulent collections * Case by M. Snetiwy. Oesterreich. Med. Wochenschrift. 1842. N. 32.