MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS IN CONSUMPTION. 1027 a communication is established with one or more bronchial tubes, the small end of which are destroyed or dissolved in the soften- ing process, and the semifluid matter reaching them irritates them, causing secondary catarrh, and excites coughing, by which it is ex- pelled. The transition of this semifluid matter through the bron- chial tubes is the cause of the redness and villous appearance of the mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes, so generally observed in the lungs of those destroyed by this distemper. On the means by which this softening is effected, different opini- ons have been entertained. An opinion very generally received is, that the tubercular masses, acting in some manner as foreign bodies, give rise to irritation and vascular action in their vicinity, and thereby induce a sort of congestive and inflammatory afflux of fluids, jn which they are dissolved in imperfect suppuration. This opinion is supported by those facts which show that tubercles begin to sof- ten near the circumference of the masses. Many tubercular masses, nevertheless, seem to possess an inter- nal and innate tendency to destruction. Their texture is imperfect ;* and in some instances the internal substance begins to soften, ap- parently whether any irritation of the surrounding lung has taken place or not. There is no doubt that, in a considerable proportion of cases, the presence of the irritation of severe bronchitis or peripneu- mony appears to have pushed the tubercular masses into speedy li- quefaction ; and the frequency with which the symptoms of pneu- monic inflammation are succeeded by those of consumption, shows that in the formation of softening at least, if not in the develop- ment of tubercular deposits, inflammatory congestion has great influence. 6 As softening proceeds, whether it has been attended with pneu raonic inflammation or not, it is speedily followed by that and bv bronchial inflammation, the latter being chiefly induced and main- tained by the incessant irritation kept up by the transition over the membrane of the contents of the tubercular softening If the tu •‘are£’ °r if th5de8ree of pneumonic inflammation be considerable, it affects a third membrane, viz. the pleura. In all cases, indeed, in proportion to the size of tubercular mass, and he consequent excavation to be formed, and as that advances from the substance to the surface of the lungs, pleurisy takes place. The * See p. 1012.