1014 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The question of the original formation of tubercles requires the previous consideration of three points; in which texture of the lungs are the tubercular bodies first deposited; in what form, fluid or solid, are they first deposited ; and what is the cause of the deposition. 1. Dr Stark represents tubercles as formations in the filamento- cellular substance of the lungs ; and Baillie inferred from dissec- tion, that tubercles were deposited in the cellular, that is the fila- mentous tissue of the lungs. This opinion, which has been very generally received without much question or inquiry, and is espous- ed by Laennec, derives verisimilitude from the appearances pre- sented on dissection of the lungs of phthisical persons, in which in general it is impossible to distinguish anything but the tubercular masses, imbedded as it were, in the parenchyma of the lungs. We shall see, that, in order to obtain just views on this point, it is re- quisite to examine lungs in which the diseased deposit is just be- ginning, or not very far advanced, or very generally diffused through the lungs. 2. Another opinion, originating in the idea that consumption is a strumous distemper, and that strumous distempers are seated in the lymphatic system, is that tubercles are morbid formations or a degeneration of the lymphatic glands of the bronchi and lungs. This opinion has been more or less strongly maintained by Portal, Heberden, Broussais, and Nasse. “ Upon dissecting the bodies of consumptive persons,” says Heberden, “ I have seen the lung crowded with swelled glands, some of which are inflamed, and some suppurated or even burst.”* u After the most attentive examina- tion,” says Portal, “ I think that the tubercles constituting primary consumption are formed both by enlargement of the lymphatic glands distributed in almost all the parts of the lungs, or remote from the bronchi, and also by lymphatic swellings of the cellular tissue of the lungs, which, after becoming more or less indurated, frequently end in bad suppuration.”! The same doctrine has been not less explicity and forcibly taught by Broussais in several of his writings ; and more recently by Nasse.! * Commentarii. London, 1782. -f. Observations sur la Nature et le Traitemcnt de la Phthisie Pulmonaire, Tome ii. p. 309. + Horn’s Archiv. 1824, Juli, Aug. p. 106, et apud Rust Handbuch der Chirurgie, B. xvi. Tuberculosis, p. 439.