424 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. On this subject, however, I shall have occasion to make some observations in the fourth chapter, when treating of Nekrosis. In fascia, I have said, and I may add tendinous aponeurosis, ossification is almost unknown. To this head, however, may per- haps be referred the instance recorded by Hoernigk of alleged os- sification of the tendinous centre of the diaphragm and part of the intercostal muscles;* that of chondro-osteoid induration of the right half of the diaphragm by Lieutaud from the Petersburg!! Trans- actions ;f a similar case seen by Leveille in 1793; and that of ossi- fication of the tendinous centre of the same muscle mentioned in the body of Collalto by Cruveilhier. The instance of cartilaginous induration of the deep-seated muscles of the leg, found by Dupuy- tren in the body of a man affected with Arabian elephantiasis, though considered by Cruveilhier as ossification of the muscles, is probably with greater justice to be viewed as of the same descrip- tion.:!: A singular instance of ossification of the fibrous septuvi of the corjms cavernosum, so complete as to requre excision, occurred to Dr M‘Lellan of Baltimore in the United States.§ 6. Some of the forms of osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma appear to originate in the periosteum. The former is generally an en- cysted tumour, and, according to the observation of Meckel, may primarily affect this membrane. The latter, from its anatomical characters, bears a greater affinity with this source; and I think, in several cases, I have been able to trace osteo-sarcomatous tu- mours to the periosteum. |] Of neither, however, are the local re- lations, when examined, so simple or distinct as to enable the pa- thologist to determine the question positively. Does true cancer ([scirrho-carcmoma) ever originate in the periosteum? The tu- mours to which this name has been applied are rather examples of osteosarcoma than of genuine scirrhus. Such at least is the cha- racter of most of the tumours of the maxillary sinus. 7. When the encephaloid degeneration (fungus hccmatodes) ap- pears in the periosteum, it may often be traced to the contiguous muscles, or to some of the adjoining articular tissues, or to the bone itself. In the latter case, however, it is almost impossible to de- * Haller, Disputationes Medico-Pract. Tom. VI. p. 344. f Historia Anatomico-Med. Tome II. p. 99. + Essai sur PAnatomic Pathologique, Tome II. p. 73. § Philadelphia Monthly Journal, Nov. 1827. Vol. I. No. 6, p. 256. || Mr Howship in Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. VIII. p. 95 and 99 ; where the same conclusion is formed. 3