GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 418 which are loosened and separated. The most frequent instancesof ul- cerated destruction of this tissue are seen in destruction of the round ligament and part of the capsule in the coxo-femoral articulation, and in that of the crucial ligaments in the femoro-tibial articulation. 7. Periostitis. Periosteum is liable to inflammation either from injury, spontaneously, or from the operation of the syphilitic or the mercurial poison. In fractures of the extremities the periosteum may be seen reddened, thickened, and depositing semifluid sub- stance, which appears to coagulate and unite the broken or wound- ed portions. When it takes place spontaneously, it is said to de- pend on the strumous diathesis, of which it is believed to be an in- dication. The membrane becomes thick, painful, unusually vascu- lar, and, unless the action subsides, or is controlled by art, semi- fluid lymph is effused beneath it, and even bloody, sanious, puru- lent matter may be formed. If the inflammation he confined to one spot, the thickened membrane, with the lymphy induration be- neath it, gives rise to the swelling termed node; (nodus). When suppuration takes place, it is too often followed by caries of the subjacent bone if of soft spongy texture, as in the sternum; or death (necrosis) if in one of more compact structure, as in the skull. The distinction, however, is not invariably observed; for caries of the tibia or ulna is seen to follow periosteal inflammation in these bones.* The appearances produced in the bones by this process belong to another head. Though any part of the perios- teum may be attacked by inflammation, certain regions seem more liable to it than others. Node, whether from strumous, syphilitic, or mercurial origin, generally takes place in parts of the periosteum where that membrane approaches the surface. Thus the anterior surface of the tibia, the posterior internal surface of theMilna, the outer surface of the radius, and the anterior surface of the clavicle and sternum, are usual situations for periosteal inflammation. Strumous periosteal inflammation in the phalanges of the fingers I have seen only in young children. The phalanges are then rough and denuded ; and the discharge of fetid sanious matter gives rise to sinuous idcers not easily healed. These effects are to be attri- buted to the suspension of the nutritious powers of the periosteal vessels. In some instances inflammation of the periosteum terminates in * Practical Observations in Surgery and Morbid Anatomy, &c. By John Howship. London, 1816, p. 176.