artery, arterial tissue. 103 portions mutually recede with more or less force, and the walls of the vessel collapse so as to contract its area uniformly from the circumference to the centre. Of the two latter actions the former is limited by the attachment of the proper arterial tissue to the fila- mentous sheath. But notwithstanding this limitation, so forcible is the retraction, as it is termed, that the connecting fibres of the fila- mentous sheath are always rent for some small space from the cut ends of the tube. The annular contraction, or central diminution of the area, is also counteracted by the longitudinal impulse of the blood; and in large vessels this resistance to the central contrac- tion is so great, that the latter has little or no sensible influence in suppressing hemorrhage. In such circumstances the chief agents of this process are the pressure of coagulated blood effused into the sheath, (coagulum externum,) and a conical or cylindrical plug of the same material (coagulum internum,) within the mouth of the divided vessel.* When by the formation of this double clot a tem- porary check to the transit of blood is given, inflammation and lymphy exudation from the divided edges tend to supply the means of permanent suppression. When this fails false aneurism is the consequence. In the case of small vessels the annular contraction hears a larger proportion, cceteris paribus, to the size of the vessel; and it exercises a greater influence in arresting the current of blood through the divided orifice. With the pressure of the external and internal clots, and the recession of the divided portions, this annular con- traction is in general amply sufficient to stop permanently the ef- fusion of blood from small vessels. Hence in partial wounds of such vessels as the radial, the ulnar, and the temporal arteries, the entire division of the vessel is often the most effectual means of checking the flow of blood from them. In amputation also, in which the arteries are divided transversely, the smaller vessels may be left untied without danger. Ihe principle now laid down Dr L. Koch of Munich has at- tempted to carry to a much greater length. Denying that hemor- rhage, from arteries entirely divided, is suppressed in the manner now mentioned, denying especially the formation of the double clot The mouth of the artery being no longer pervious, nor a collateral branch very near it, the blood just within it is at rest, coagulates, and forms in general a slender conical coagulum, which neither fills up the canal of the artery, nor adheres to its sides, except by a small portion of the circumference of its base, which lies near the extremity of the vessel.”—Jones on Hemorrhage, Chap. I. sect. iii. p. 53.