i 185 ERECTILE TISSUE. The causes of indolent enlargement are little known. A long residence in districts infested by intermittent fevers, especially quar- tans, and repeated attacks, or the prolonged continuance of these disorders, give the spleen a tendency to swell; and the disease is common in fenny and aguish districts, both in this island and on the continent. Thus in Lincolnshire, Essex, Kent, Cambridge- shire, &c. it is not uncommon ; it assumes its most formidable ap- pearance in the department of the lower maritime Alps in France ; in Hungary it is endemial; and in the Carolinas and other south- ern states of the American Union, it is rare to find persons who have attained thirty or five and thirty years, without more or less enlargement of the spleen. In some instances the disease succeeds a blow on the hypochondre. 5. Indurated enlargement of the Spleen. This is perhaps more common than enlargement with softening; for every enlarged, spleen may in process of time become hardened. In this state the organ may be five or six times its natural size, yet, when divided, presenting its natural structure, only much more dense and com- pact than natural. This is sometimes considered as scirrhus, but it is unlike to this in other parts of the body, and its real nature is not well understood. It is not improbable that it is the effect of chronic inflammation. It is generally attended with dropsical effu- sion within the peritoneum. It can seldom be recognised till the disease has made such progress that the enlarged organ is felt ex- ternally, when it protrudes the false ribs, and the anterior edge or top of the organ can be felt by the hand applied to the belly under the margin of the ribs. It is sometimes notched. Even in this state the only symptoms are an unhealthy sallow look, wasting of the fleshy parts, and swelling of the belly, dry skin, and at length the usual signs of dropsy of the belly. The disease is a common effect of residence in aguish districts. According to Grottanelli it is endemial in the territory of Pitigliano and other low districts in Italy. The size and weight of the spleen, when affected with hypertro- phy and induration, are seldom so considerable as when the disease is simple induration. The spleen weighs, then, in this country, from three to seven pounds. In one remarkable case which I have published for other reasons, the indurated spleen weighed seven pounds three ounces and a-half; and in another case which had also been under my care, and in which death took place in the same manner, the spleen weighed seven pounds twelve ounces.