754 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. place in all persons, in whom the brain is much exerted, or in pro- portion to that exertion. It is observed as much in the temperate and regular as in those of opposite habits; indeed it almost never appears in persons who live freely. It is greatly more common in females than in males ; and at Buxton and Bath especially, to which patients affected with it resort, the proportion of females to males varies from 5 to 1 to 5 to 2. On the other hand, however, the disease is generally more severe and obstinate in males than in fe- males. It seems to affect the labouring classes and those engaged in corporeal exertion rather in a greater degree than the sedentary. This disease, when affecting the joints of the hands and fingers, is liable to produce not only ankylosis of the joints, but great deformity. The ends of the bones are enlarged, and irregularly tuberculated and knotty. Some of the phalanges are bent forcibly and immovably into the palm of the hand. Others stand out equally immovably, and do not admit of inflection. Others are twisted and contorted ; so that the hand and fingers are of little use. The whole hand then not unfrequently is so deformed as to resemble the root of the parsnip. This is the disease described by Heberden, and after- wards by Haygarth, under the name of Nodosity of the joints. § 7. Purulent collections within the synovial membranes. Arthropy- ema after phlebitis.—Though purulent matter maybe collected with- in any of the synovial membranes, in consequence of common in- flammation of these membranes, the species of suppuration or puru- lent collection to which I here advert, is peculiar in taking place after inflammation of the inner coat of a vein or veins. I have already shown that, though venous inflammation often proves im- mediately fatal, yet instances occur in which the mere venous in- flammation does not terminate in death. In this class of cases other processes take place which must be regarded as the conse- quences of venous inflammation. To several of these, as purulent collections within the serous membranes and extensive suppurations in the cellular and adipose tissue, I have already adverted. Be- sides these, however, purulent matter is liable to be formed within the synovial membrane of a joint, and to be followed by all the de- structive consequences attending suppuration within such a cavity. This lesion has been supposed to be confined to females with ute- rine phlebitis; and in them it is perhaps more frequent than in others. I have seen it, however, take place after inflammation of the brachial veins, succeeding to the operation of venesection; and give rise to