GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 9 96 which is to he ascribed to secondary pleurisy caused by the inflam- mation induced to detach the dead eschar. Though these forms of gangrene of the lung are sometimes dis- tinct, they occasionally take place at the same time in the same lung. Thus in the case of one of the patients who was treated by myself, a man of fifty-six, diffuse gangrene was observed towards the internal and anterior surface of the left lung, and circumscribed gangrene in the form of a cup-like cavity at the outer surface of the same lung. Laennec represents this disease as occasionally terminating fa- vourably. Of this I have never seen an instance, either in my own practice, or in that of any of my colleagues at the Royal Infirmary. It is, indeed, a disease almost necessarily fatal, whether from the kinds of constitution in which it occurs, or its deleterious effects on the lungs and their functions. The causes of gangrene of the lungs are little known. The dis- ease occurs either along with typhoid fever, or gives rise to typhoid symptoms. It is more common in persons beyond the ages of forty- five or fifty, and especially in those who have lived intemperately. It also occurs in persons much younger, or between twenty and thirty-six. But very often in persons at this age, it is found to have taken place either during a mercurial course, or shortly after its completion. Some authorities regard it, especially when circumscribed, as the effect of pulmonary apoplexy. I have, when treating of the transporting power of the veins, ad- verted to the fact, that when gangrene affects the lungs, suppura- tion, or a purulent deposit, is liable to take place in the brain. From the cases in which this has been observed, not many indeed, I think that it is impossible to doubt, that however it may be ex- plained, under certain circumstances purulent deposit, either within the veins and sinuses of the brain, or within the substance of the brain, takes place after gangrene of the lungs has been established. Yet the necessity of the gangrenous affection to the production of the effect is not obvious. On the other hand, mere suppuration of the lung may be adequate. Gangrene is liable to attack certain forms of tubercular excava- tion and vomicae of the lungs. To this attention shall be directed afterwards. In certain circumstances, this disease appears to prevail epide- mically, whether it be the effect of a typhoid or pestilential level