884 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Above this standard the weight of the liver may rise greatly; tor instance, to 6, 8, 9, or even 10 pounds; and its volume is pro- portionally increased. At the same time, the organ is in a high degree vascular, firmer than natural, and cuts hard under the knife. The intimate structure is generally understood not to he impaired, or in any way changed; and in one sense this is correct. The structure resembles, except in increased firmness and greater vascularity, the usual structure of the liver; yet, when examined carefully and closely, the granular tissue of the organ appears more fleshy than in the nor- mal state, and occasionally portions of the liver are harder than the surrounding texture. In certain periods of the disease, which I supposed must be more advanced, the vascularity of the organ ap- pears diminished; at least less blood escapes from incisions. The increase in volume which the liver acquires, when enlarged by hypertrophy, may be very considerable, and with its increase in weight, produces great uneasiness and derangement in some of the thoracic and all the abdominal viscera. The gland is enlarged in all its dimensions, and may press up the right side of the diaphragm and right lung, while it prevents the diaphragm from descending freely. It also thrusts upward the tendinous centre and the heart a little. These effects, nevertheless, vary according to the posture of the patient. Thus, in the horizontal position, the hypertrophied liver is decidedly higher up in the right side of the chest than in the erect. In the latter, while its bulk prevents the free descent of the diaphragm, its weight draws that muscle downward. In the abdomen it may come down as low as the crest of the os ilium, while at the same time it extends beyond the median line into the left hypochondriac region, and makes usually a decided bulging pro- minence in the right hypochondriac and epigastric regions. From the circumstance of the liver lying transversely below the diaphragm, this bulging is generally more marked above than below, the gland being tied closely to the diaphragm by its ligaments. The hypertrophied liver usually has contracted preternatural ad- hesions with the neighbouring organs; the stomach; the transverse Infirmary, and generally found those supposed to be free from disease to be from 3 pounds to 3 pounds 5 or 6 ^ounces. Very rarely did they ascend to 4 pounds, unless in conjunction with palpable marks of disease. In females, the weight was usually about 2 pounds 10 ounces to 3 pounds. One fatty liver in a young female dead of consumption I found to weigh 8 pounds and 7 or 8 ounces. The low weig >t of the liver given by Mr Marshall is less astonishing than the high weight within t e limits of healthy structure. These weighty livers were probably hypertrophied.