863 INFLAMMATION OF TIIE LIVER. of various dimensions, or tubercles are interspersed through its sub- stance. These appearances may be conjoined with hydatids; hut these are rarely met in the disease as it occurs in India. The bile differs from healthy bile in a slight change of colour or consistence • but it has not been chemically examined. The gall-bladder seldom presents any change of structure, or is merely thickened in its coats. This form of hepatic inflammation is very common in India, es- pecially in those who have resided long in the country, who have been exposed to the causes of ague and fever, or whose habits have been rather intemperate. It is not unknown, however, in European countries; for Bang describes an instance of it in his Copenhagen Reports, occurring in the month of April 1783, and with symptoms somewhat acute. (Tome i. p. 88, Selecta Diarii Havniensis.) Two instances have come under my own notice in this country. In various instances of the disease, a single large abscess is form- ed in the liver without acute symptoms, or with the usual train of chronic complaints. I had occasion in 1827 to examine the body of an aged person who had been labouring for about five or six weeks under symptoms of inflammation of the intestinal mucous membrane, and m whom, besides the usual traces of disease in the colon, I found a large abscess in the right lobe of the liver con- taining fully four pounds of purulent matter, mixed with Ivmnhv flakes. To this head Mr Andree’s case in the Transactions of the Mar b 1 rf y,aPPemT t0 bel°n§- “The formation,” says Mr Marshall, of a large abscess in the liver sometimes takes place without much indication of disease, in as far as the feelings of the patient are concerned. So little obvious occasionally are the symp- oms which indicate a large accumulation of pus in that organ, that the pom mg of the abscess outwards has been mistaken for a super ficial collection, and an opening made into it by means of a lancet Ihe issue of three or four pounds of purulent matter undeceived he operator (P. 155 ) Are such collections to be regarded a the resu t of chronic inflammation, or of a scrofulous disease of the 1 ver, as they are in other organs? or are they the result of secondarv deposition through the medium of the veins, as takes place in cer tarn cases of intestinal ulceration ? A peculiar modification of he patic suppuration is described by Sandifort in ib • i .i , ..f the .second book of his Academies,Ret “hes ® ^ C. I have made a distinct head of an,to for the purpose of referring to it „„ affection <ff ftTli wri?'’ described by ,,r Chisholm, as prevailing epidemically ^^