GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 864 of the West Indies. The disease began with headach, pain at the pit of the stomach, general languor, and a sense of tightness and oppression at the breast, with difficult breathing. The skin was dry, harsh, and cool; the tongue moist and foul, without thirst; the belly natural; the urine freely secreted; and the pulse was soft, about 70 or 80 in the minute, and of natural fulness. In some cases the pulse was quick and hard from the first, the skin hot and dry, and some swelling of the belly, especially at the um- bilical region, was remarked. The pain varied in situation, being some time confined to the right hypochondriac and epigastric re- gions, in other instances extending from these to the shoulder, es- pecially the right, across the belly to the navel, or from the navel through to the spine. It was remarkable, that, when the pain was fixed, it was felt in the left side, under the false ribs. In about two days the headach increased much, but without giddiness; the pain at the pit of the stomach became more excru- ciating; and shivering came on, with chilness of the skin to the touch, but an intense burning sensation when pressed strongly. The tongue was covered with a thick moist fur, purplish at the edges; the cheeks, nose, and eyebrows assumed a copper hue, ex- uding large drops of sweat, while the skin, in general, was cover- ed with an unctuous moisture; the pulse rose from 80 to 120 or 140; dry cough, or rather a sudden catching mode of expiration, with a sense of compression of the lungs, came on ; and about the sixth day, all the symptoms increasing, the skin became cold and clammy, the pulse exceedingly quick and small, deglutition became difficult, and coma came on, terminating in death. On dissection the liver was found greatly enlarged; its surface, especially the convex, was clouded irregularly with red, purple, and tallow-coloured spots ; the peritonaeum sound and transparent. The hepatic substance was of natural consistence, without any ap- pearance of suppuration, but so much enlarged as to occupy in eight of ten cases not only the right hypochondriac and epigastric region, but the left hypochondre. Its vessels were enlarged, but empty. These appearances seem to arise from an unusual accu- mulation or congestion of blood in the liver. It appears to be the same described by Marshall at p. 146, and which he regards as a passive engorgement of the vascular system of the gland. This sort of hepatic inflammation prevails occasionally as an epi- demic in Grenada, Dominica, and others of the later settled islands. Although persons of all colours, ages, and of both sexes may be