373 NERVOUS TISSUE. eminent recent anatomists, no nerves terminate in the lymphatic or conglobate glands. Sometimes, indeed, these organs are perforated by one or two twigs, as I have often had occasion to observe; but they instantly proceed to the next place assigned to them, and in which they are finally lost.”* If after this conclusion of Walter personal testimony can be of any use, I may add, that I have exa- mined the dura mater, the periosteum, and most of the synovial membranes repeatedly, to discover nervous filaments in them, and always without success ; and I may say the same regarding the ab- sence or non-appearance of nerves in the peritoneum and pleura. The nerves have different uses in the different organs and tissues to which they are distributed. 1. In the organs of sensation they receive the mechanical impressions made on the mechanical part of the organ. In the eye, the retina receives the last image formed by the transmitting powers of the transparent parts. In the ear, the terminations of the auditory nerve are affected by the oscilla- tions or minute changes in the fluid of the labyrinth, occasioned by the motions of the tympanal bones. In the mucous membrane of the nasal passages, the filaments of the olfactory nerve are affected by aromatic particles, dissolved or suspended in the air. In the palate, tongue, and throat, the gustatory nerves are affected by sapid bodies dissolved in the mouth, or applied in a fluid state to the mucous membrane of that cavity. 2. In the system of volun- tary muscles the nerves retain the action of the muscular fibres in a state of uniformity and equality, and keep them obedient to the will. In the involuntary muscles they appear merely to keep their action equable, regular, and uniform; and in both they maintain a communication, or consent or harmony of action between different parts of the same system of organs, or even between different organs concurring to the same function. 3. In the glandular organs the nerves certainly exercise some influence over the process of secre- tion ; but what is the exact nature of this influence, or in what de- gree it takes place, is quite uncertain. When we observe the nerves distributed to organs of sensation and organs of motion, it is a natural thought to inquire whether the nerves minister to both functions, and whether different nerves or different sorts of nerves minister to each function. It seems to have been an idea of considerable antiquity, that one set of nerves are sensilerous, and another set motiferous. Erasistratus derives the * Pracfat. Tab. Ncrv. Thoracis et Abdominis, J. O. Walter.