GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 284 or less extent may take place in either of the hemispheres, and in almost any part of these hemispheres, its situation is influenced much by the kind of abscess. The ordinary abscess, consisting of an irregular cavity containing purulent matter, sometimes mixed with flakes of lymph, and rendering it curdly, may take place either in the anterior lobe (J. Earle,* * * § Hooper,) or in the centre of the hemisphere (Chizeau,t Baillie). An abscess, consisting of several small communicating cavities, takes place in the anterior lobe, and occasionally in the substance or in the vicinity of the striated nu- cleus of Reil. The abscess consisting of a firm cyst, containing purulent matter, is generally found in the centre of the hemispheres. (Powell, case 8 ; Hooper, PI. 9, Fig. 3 ; Abercrombie, cases 16, 17.) Collections of purulent matter have been found in the lobes of the cerebellum by Bianchi,| (often Latinized Janus Plancus,) Stoll,§ Weikard,|| and Abercrombie.IT In general they are con- tained in a cyst more or less distinct, the walls of which are mem- branous and vascular. In the case of Weikard he represents the whole white matter almost of the left lobe to be converted into a millet-like, something foul, purulent matter, by which I understand it to have been flocculent and lymphy. Suppuration, less distinctly defined, and deposited generally in small irregular cavities, takes place in the medulla oblongata, especially in that part of the olivary body which contains the corpus dentatum. Abercrombie mentions a case at the junction of the protuberance (39.) In the chord itself, though more rare, and generally confined to the surface, yet it has been seen in the form of infiltration by Brera ;** and in a distinct cavity in the cervical portion by Velpeau.ff The origin of these collections is not well known. That they are the result of a form of inflammation cannot be denied: hut that it is not ordinary inflammation, is to be inferred from the slow progress which they generally observe, and from the vari- * Med. and Phys. Journal, Vol. XX111. p. 89. -}■ Recueil Periodique, No. xxxiv. J Giovan. Bianchi Storia d’un Apostema nel lobo destro del Cerebello. Rimini, 1751. And Jani Planci Storia, d’un Apostema nel Cerebello. Rimini, 1752. § Maximil. Stoll Rationis Medendi, Pars i. 178, et iii. 159. || Vermischto Schriften von M. A. Weikard fiirstl. Fuldisch Leibartz. Frankfort am Main, 1782. Viertcs St. p. 74. ^ Pathological and Practical Researches, case iii. and xl. ** Cenni sulla Rachitide. Revue Medical, 1826.