682 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. served. The course of the fistula, which is so small as often to ad- mit only the lacrymal probe of Anel, is in general towards ihe pharynx; and in some cases water may be injected by the fistula into the pharynx. From the external aperture of these fistulce exudes, from time to time, a thin white drop of transparent glutinous fluid, not unlike white of egg, sometimes like purulent matter. The inner surface of these fistulae is smooth, reddish, and like that of a mucous mem- brane. These fistulce, which are congenital, are the remains of the bran- chial slits of the early intra-uterine period of the foetus, in conse- quence of the process of closure of these slits being in some manner stopped. They cannot be healed without inconvenience ; in one case the attempt was followed by apoplectic death ; and there is reason to believe that they must have been left open for some salutary pur- pose. They are more frequent in females than in males in the ratio of about eight to three. They are observed in certain families more commonly than in others. ยง 3. The sacs of the ileum and bladder, called diverticula, appear to depend on deficiency of the muscular layer, in consequence of which the mucous corion is protruded through the defective space. (Mor- gagni ; Palletta.) ยง 4. In other instances, deviations from the normal arrangement consist in unnatural unions of mucous surfaces, rendering the canals which they line impervious, and constituting varieties of imperfora- tions. Thus the pyloric orifice of the stomach has been found closed,* the rectum imperforate,and the vagina imperforate. These, in all probability, are to be ascribed to deficiency of mucous mem- brane, in consequence of which the contiguous parts contract ad- hesion. ยง 5. In other instances, again, malformations are the result of dis- ease. Of this description are the enlarged or distended state of the pulmonic vesicles, produced by several being burst into one large cavity; the central contraction of the stomach; the sacculated state of the urinary bladder; the dilatations of the alimentary canal, in consequence of the lodgement of foreign bodies or concretions; * Case by Mr Crooks, Edin. Med.-Chirur. Transactions, Vol. ii. p. 589.