GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 998 the disease may prove fatal by suffocation, before it has attained the complete suppurative stage; 2r/, Because under the influence of remedies, it may be so much modified as to prevent the forma- tion of purulent matter in a distinct sac or cavity. But it must not be regarded as so rare as M. Laennec represents it. Instances are recorded by Morgagni, in which a considerable portion of the pulmonic tissue was converted into a purulent abscess, with the contiguous structure apparently healthy, or indurated as a conse- quence of previous inflammation. Dr Baillie expresses himself with some uncertainty; for his language may be interpreted so as to apply either to tubercular vomicae, or to pulmonary abscesses; though it is evident, and more especially from what he says in his engravings, that he believed in its ordinary occurrence. On this subject evidence is defective ; and several good cases, with the appearances after death are required, in order to ascertain the frequency or the general occurrence of abscess as a consequence of pneumonic inflammation. It is impossible to doubt, nevertheless, that suppuration of the lungs, that is, the proper pulmonic filamentous tissue, does take place as an effect of inflammation of that tissue. In this instance, purulent matter of a gray dirty aspect is formed beneath the pleura or the subserous cellular tissue, and extends in this direction be- tween the lobes. An excellent example of this lesion occurred to me in the course of July 1843. A man in an extreme state of feebleness presented himself for admission to the hospital. It was manifest that he was in the last stage of some serious disease of the lungs; and death took place in the course of a few hours. Inspection disclosed the following state of the lungs. The pleura of both lungs, but especially of the right, were detached from the subjacent substance of the lung by a quantity of dirty ash-coloured purulent matter. In the right lung, this detachment with the cor- responding purulent matter extended into the division of the lobes and lobules, which were thus separated from each other. The filamento-cellular tissue appeared as if it had been dissolved and carried away in the purulent collection; for it was no longer cog- nizable in its wonted characters. When the matter was washed away, bronchial tubes and blood-vessels were all that was left; and these did not adhere as they are wont to do. In short the cohesion of the whole of the lower and middle lobe of the right lung was entirely destroyed. Another example of the same lesion is recorded by Dr Stokes in