18 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. CHAPTER II. THE FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. Section I. The solid or organized textures contain fluids, some for pur- poses within the system, others destined to be expelled from it. I shall give a short account of the characters and properties of the principal fluids of the body, preparatory to a view of their morbid states. The fluids of the animal body are various, hut may be distin- guished into three sorts; the circulating nutritious fluid named the blood, the fluids which are incessantly mixed with the blood for its renewal, and those which are separated from it by secretion. The blood is well known to be a viscid liquid, of red colour, peculiar odour, and saline, something nauseous taste. Its tempe- rature in the living body is about 97°; its specific gravity is about 105 to water as 100. Its quantity is in the adult considerable, varying from 8 or 10 to 80 or 100 pounds; the average is about 30 pounds. According to the results of microscopic observation, it consists of red particles suspended in a serous or sero-albuminous fluid. On the shape of these red particles various opinions have been main- tained. Generally represented as globular, Plewson describes them as flattened spheroids, or lenticular bodies, a view which is con- firmed by the observations of Prevost and Dumas, Beclard, of Idodgkin and Lister, and Mr Wharton Jones. The opinion of Home and Young, that the flattening of these globules is a process posterior to the discharge of the fluid, is not improbable. These particles have since the time of Hewson been almost universally represented as consisting of a central transparent whitish globule, inclosed in a red translucent vesicle, which gives them the shape of an oblate spheroid. In man and the mammalia they are circular discs, often with a depression on the sides. The diameter of these particles is estimated, by the subdivided scale of Kater, the mi- crometer of Wollaston, and the eriometer of Young, at j-Jos, and by the common micrometer, at TyGj5 of an inch. (Phil. Trans.) Mr Gulliver estimates the average thickness of the human blood-