928 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Mr George White, formerly a practitioner in this city, informed me, in May 1825, some time after I had published the account of the large gall-stone voided, as already mentioned, from the bowels, of an instance in which first inflammation, and suppuration, and then ulceration of the abdominal parietes took place, and through the aperture thus made a gall-stone of considerable size was dis- charged, with recovery of the patient. I may add also, that, in the Museum of Guy’s Hospital, there are preserved two biliary concretions, which made their escape through an abscess at the navel in a female patient of Mr T. Cal- loway, one of the surgeons to that institution. Dr Macnish gives an interesting case, in which, some months af- ter an attack of acute hepatitis, an abscess was formed below the margin of the ribs, which was at length laid open by incision. About twenty-five days after this, a gall-stone as large as a nutmeg was discharged from the wound; and four days after another concre- tion and some fragments were discharged. A good deal of bile was afterwards mixed with the discharge. But the patient made a good recovery, the wound having completely cicatrized about twelve months after the date of incision.* In short, there is no lack of evidence to show, that biliary con- cretions of all sizes may find their way to the surface of the body by a process of progressive inflammation and suppuration, the parts behind and around being united by the effusion of lymph, so as to prevent the concretion from getting into the peritoneum. It is, indeed, important to observe, that while numerous cases of tln3 mode of exit are recorded, in all of which the movement of the con- cretion must have been attended with ulceration, and not less nu- merous cases of their transit into the intestinal canal, in several of which, probably, the same process took place, no instance is recorded of a gall-stone dropping into the cavity of the peritoneum, except in one doubtful instance, f After the foregoing detail, it is superfluous to say that the gall- bladder and biliary ducts are liable to be affected by inflammation and ulceration. The ducts are liable to become obliterated in the course of the process. * Case of Tumour in the Region of the Liver, with discharge of Biliary Calculi through the abdominal parietes. By William Macnish, M.D. &c. Edinburgh Me- dical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xli. p. 169. 1834. -)- Andree.