1004 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. state described by this pathologist, the blood has been already dis- charged from the vessels, or extravasated not only into the cells of the pulmonic tissue, but into the minute extremities of the bronchial tubes, which are thus filled and obstructed within, while they are compressed and obliterated without. But it is the agent that causes this effect, which it is the object of the pathologist to know ; it is the state of the capillary circulation which terminates in this effusion, which it is necessary to explain in unfolding the pathology of pulmonary hemorrhage. This it will be found consists in more or less injection and distension of the capillaries or minute arteries and veins which are distributed through the pulmonic tissue, to wind round, and ramify in the minute or extreme bronchial tubes, in con- sequence of some derangement or impediment in the circulation. The truth is, that in all the instances of the lesion described as hemorrhage into the substance of the lungs, whether recent, or in the form of pulmonary dark-brown induration, it is preceded either by disease of the heart, or disease in the substance of the lungs. 1. Bichat, and particularly Corvisart, observed that, in certain forms of disease of the heart, especially the active aneurism of the latter, or what is at present termed hypertrophy, expectoration of blood was a symptom of the second and third stages of the disease. The same circumstance was also noticed by Mr Allan Burns, who, how- ever, has hypothetically connected this symptom with dilatation of the right side of the heart. All the best marked cases of pulmonary hemorrhage with hemorrhagic induration which I have seen, have been connected with ossification of the mitral valve, and arctation of its aperture, or hypertrophy of the left ventricle. The operation of the former it is easy to understand. The blood does not pass with its wonted facility through the mitral valve into the left ven- tricle ; the left auricle is consequently kept in a constant state of over-distension ; this distension is propagated along the pulmonary veins to the pulmonary capillaries, which are thus perfectly filled and distended with blood, which is not allowed to be moved into their trunks in the usual manner, and with the wonted regularity. As this distension is every hour and day increasing, with the per- sistence and increase of the obstruction in the left auriculo-ventri- cular aperture, it is not wonderful that the blood is extravasated into the pulmonic filamentous tissue, and through the bronchial membrane, causing in the former the dark brown-coloured circum- scribed masses which arc found after death, and in the latter the bloody expectoration which takes place dining life.