GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 250 part of the optic couch was terminated by a projection or process, which he named the jointed or geniculate body, and which, he had likewise the merit of observing, gives rise to the optic nerve.* * * § More recently Malacarne remarked that this region is rendered unequal by a tubercle, from which the nerves seem partly to rise.f About the same time it was noticed by Yicq-D’Azyr, that on the side, a little behind and below, there are three superficial tuber- cles of a rounded figure, and disposed in a triangle ; and that one of them must have been the body mentioned by Gunz and Bon- homme, and of which Haller avowed his ignorance.! He after- wards mentions a slight prominence near the upper of the four eminences, of a white colour, but gray exteriorly, communicating with the optic tract ;§ while the external-lateral region of the optic couch presents several similar eminences, but less considerable. The notice given by Bichat is still more brief and less satisfactory “ Tout a fait en arriere cette parti inferieure offre une ou deux sail lies, et se continue avec les tubercules quadrijumeaux.” The inaccurate manner in which these authors seem to have exa- mined this part of the organ, the vague and imprecise terms in which they speak of it, as if its existence were apocryphal,—show the necessity of more correct researches. Soemmering and Gor- don describe in this situation two eminences, termed the outer and inner geniculate bodies. The description of the former author is brief and precise, but not quite so satisfactory as could be wished. That of the latter is more minute ; but in some respects it is either not clear, or it does not apply generally. * “ Quod tamen per repetitas diligenterque institutas disquisitiones ab eadem potius membrana eos non proficisci, scpius vidisse vissus sum ; verum turn ab eorum Thala- moruin interiori parte, turn a quodam velut geniculato corpore circa eorundem Thala- morum posterior a locato adjunctoque, cujus corticalis seu cinerea interior substantia est, medullaris et Candida exterior facies luculentius prodire, sum assecutus : Ad ho- rum tamen exortus locum a latere prominentiarum quod natiformes nuncupantur, conspicuus medullaris tractus transversim sic Thalamis conjungitur, ut vel in eorum substantia disjiciatur, vel inflexus caeterisque fibrillis involutus ad Nervorum opticorum exortum accedat, conjicere quidem, decernere autem minime valui.” Observat. Ana- tomic. Joan. Dom. Santorini, cap. iii. § 14. See also a more minute description in his posthumous Tabulce Anatomical, Tabula iii. fig. 1. p. 32. Parmre, 1775. f “ La stessa faccia superiore—e coperta d’una lamina midollare tenuissima ed ha disuguale la posteriore estremita per un bernacolo irregolare, da cui sembra che in parte usscono i nervi ottici.” Articolo, vii. 68. £ Elementa Physiologic, Tom. IV, lib. x. sect. 1. § 24. § Recherches sur la Structure du Cerveau, &c. ix. Memoires de l’Academie Royale dcs Sciences, Annee 1781.