306 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. state of insensibility from which he never recovers; and this, after lasting from 40 or 50 minutes to two, three, or more hours, termi- nates in death. The state of the brain is in such cases the following. The whole surface of the brain under the site of the blows, and not unfrequently all over, is covered with a layer of wrhat appears to be blood of considerable thickness. At first sight this appears to be outside the membranes. But on examination it is found that the blood is effused or infiltrated into the subarachnoid or inter- membranous tissue, and that it has escaped from the lacerated ves- sels of the pia mater. The thickness of this layer varies. Some- times it is pretty uniformly spread as thick as a crown piece all over the upper and lateral parts of the hemispheres. It generally in- creases in amount and thickness at the lateral and inferior regions of the brain. The whole posterior lobes and the cerebellum may be covered by it. Most usually, however, it is thickest over the crura, the intercrural fossa, the annular protuberance and the me- dulla oblongata. Over these parts, in two fatal cases in which death followed almost immediately repeated blows on the head, I found the blood effused into the intermembranous tissue over the base of the brain, to the thickness of half an inch. This, therefore, is a meningeal hemorrhage. In the same class of cases blood is effused within the ventricles often to a great amount. It is coagulated, and the clot is surround- ed by bloody coloured serum. This escapes in like manner from the vessels of the choroid plexus and the internal pia mater. These appearances are so uniformly the result of violence, that the cir- cumstance of their situation and appearance may, along with other circumstances, be justly inferred, in doubtful cases, to prove that death is the result of violence. The fact, therefore, forms a valu- able piece of evidence in medico-legal inquiries, to prove that such hemorrhage and such death could not have taken place from inter- nal causes. Attempts are often made either by ignorant or designing persons, or by counsel, to prove that this intermembranous or menin- geal hemorrhage is sanguineous apoplexy. The answer is very sim- ple but decisive. In sanguineous apoplexy the hemorrhage always takes place in the substance of the brain and lacerates the brain. In traumatic apoplexy, or that from violence, it takes place on the sur- face from the vessels of the membranes, and compresses the organ. By M. Serres, indeed, a species of meningeal apoplexy has been recognised as taking place spontaneously. It is a very rare oc-