GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 380 vous matter is also enlarged ; and often a perceptible enlargement is formed at the point at which this morbid orgasm is established. Lymph and blood are also effused; and to this, indeed, the enlarge- ment is owing. Inflammation of the neurilema is certainly a com- mon accompaniment, if not a cause of neuralgic pain. When inflammation affects the nervous matter, it may produce softening from slight effusion of serum or suppuration, or indura- tion from the effusion of lymph. Our knowledge of these effects is obtained mostly either from injuries of nerves, as when they are torn, bruised, or divided, or from observing the results of experi- ments on the lower animals. In this point of view, I shall have occasion to recur to the subject afterwards. Nervous tissue, therefore, is liable to inflammation. This may arise spontaneously, or inconsequence of injury, as contusion, wound, laceration, ligature, &c. It isaccompanied first with gnawing pain, which is oftener periodical than constant, spreading along the course of the nerve, sometimes its branches, with a sense of heat often very disagreeable, and a peculiar tenderness of the surface. After some time the pain is less violent, but more constant; and more or less derangement in the functions of the parts to which the nerve goes takes place. The skin becomes numb, cold, and insensible. Of muscular parts tbe motions are variously disordered, becoming ir- regular, spasmodic, and little under the influence of the will, so as to constitute convulsions, and finally being lost in different degrees, so as to cause palsy more or less complete. This constitutes one form of neuralgia or nerve-ach. It is most frequent in the sciatic, partly in consequence of its exposed situation, and sometimes in consequence of actual violence locally inflicted, as in failing. (Is- chias nervosa of Cotunnius.) I have, however, seen this affection arising in other nerves; for example, the median or spiral, in the arm, and sometimes the posterior tibial, in the leg, in consequence of similar causes. In one instance it wras confined with accuracy to the anterior branch of the radial nerve, which goes to the thumb and index finger. In such cases the inflammatory action is con- fined pretty accurately to a part of the ncurilematic coat, which be- comes firm, vascular, and more or less tender. In neuralgia of tbe face (tic doloureux, Fothergill,) (prosopalgia, Frank, Weissc,) it is not easy to say what is the pathological cause. It is undoubted that it is seated in the nerve; and though some forms of this malady evidently depend on inflammation of the neu-