GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 56 energy depends on the want of nerves, or on the smaller number and size of its nutrient vessels. The fact of feeble vitality is well established by many circumstances of daily occurrence, and is fur- ther illustrated, as shall be seen, by the different appearance and effects of the phenomena of inflammation in tissues more completely organized, and endowed also with more active vital properties. In the second place, as to anatomical position, the adipose tissue is in many situations of the human body so closely confined, that when inflamed, and consequently distended, it cannot easily expand. This is particularly the case, not only with the subcutaneous fat which is compressed by the skin, but with the dense adipose cushion surrounding the blood-vessels and nerves, which, in the extremi- ties at least, and in the neck, is closely packed and compressed, as it were, by all the incumbent and surrounding tissues,—muscles, fascia, and skin. When we examine the adipose cushion surround- ing the carotid artery in the neck, that accompanying the axillary and brachial artery in the arm-pit and arm, and that enclosing the femoral and popliteal arteries in the leg, it must appear obvious, that little or no space is left in either of these regions for the casual expansion of the adipose membrane, from whatever cause proceed- ing. Not only is the adipose cushion there closely confined by con- densed filamentous tissue, but it is further inclosed and compressed by the incumbent fascia, muscles, subcutaneous adipose membrane, and skin; and the degree of tightness may be estimated from the fact, that even when cut into in the healthy state, it is forthwith protruded, and is with difficulty replaced. This tightness is one great cause of the readiness and celerity with which the adipose tissue in this situation passes so readily into mortification. As it is distended by the inflammatory vascular congestion, and as the surrounding parts do not yield with proportional facility, it is as if inclosed within a long tight ligature, and is in a manner strangled by its own en- largement. This result is clearly illustrated by the effects of in- flammation of the periangial adipose membrane. In the third place, the inflammatory states of the adipose mem- brane are not only in themselves of the highest importance, from the anatomical and physiological properties of the tissue itself, but in consequence of the uses to which this tissue is applied in enclos- ing and supporting others, and especially the nutrient vessels of blood-vessels, nerves, tendons, and bones, these states may exercise on the economy a most important influence, which 1 believe has not hitherto been fully understood.