MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 551 the mucous surfaces, it cau no longer be shown to exist in the stomach, intestines, bladder, &c. Beclard renders this conclusion precise, by showing experimentally that mucous epidermis cannot be traced in the oesophagus beyond the cardia; in the genito-urinaiy system beyond the neck of the womb, and that of the bladder. The termination of the epidermis at the lower end or cardiac junction of the oesophagus is very remarkable. It is seen by the eye, but more clearly by the aid of a good glass. It is observed to form or send out long triangular processes, the base connected with the oesophageal epidermis, the apices free, leaving also between them triangular spaces. The length of these processes varies from one-third of an inch to half an inch and two-thirds of an inch. Their number is also variable, and sometimes in the same subject they differ in size. They are rendered very distinct by immersing the oesophagus in boiling water, which renders them opake, or in nitric acid, which imparts to them an orange-yellow tinge, leaving the intermediate and adjoining mucous corion little changed. In the uterus it is quite easy to see that the epidermis does not advance beyond the upper extremity of the vagina. The uterine mucous membrane presents no appearance of epidermis. The structure of mucous membrane varies in every situation and in every organ; and as the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal has been most frequently examined, on that, accordingly, the greatest amount of information has been communicated. This division of the mucous system presents most distinctly and in greatest perfection three sets of objects, the true structure of which it is believed highly important to understand aright. These are the tubulo-cellular structure of the stomach, the villi and the muciparous follicles or glands. The mucous membrane of the stomach, which first deserves atten- tion, is not villous, properly speaking, so much as cellular. Hewson had early observed, that at the upper part of the stomach, the vil- lous coat appears in a miscroscope like a honey-comb, or like the second stomach of ruminating animals in miniature, that is, full of small cells which have thin membranous partitions. Towards the pylorus these partitions are lengthened so as to approach to the shape of the villi in the jejunum. These cells Sir E. Home represents as found in the form of a honey-comb in the upper end of the stomach, and to be of greatest depth in this region, though seen over the whole cardiac