920 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. in scales, but with colouring matter of bile; and the only part which, in a small proportion of cases, is inspissated bile, is the outer portion of the concretion.* These facts regarding the chemical composition of biliary cal- culi show that, previous to their formation, a great and decided change takes place in the bile. Bile does not in the normal state contain cholesterine; but there is no doubt that the cholesterine is formed from the bile. A new arrangement, therefore, of the ele- ments of bile must take place. Cholesterine consists principally of carbon and hydrogen, and the ingredients of the bile must so alter their relations as to form in this manner cholesterine. The presence of gall-stones in the tubuli, the gall-ducts, or in the gall-bladder, gives rise to various effects in these parts. The most common is believed to be jaundice ; and certainly in the case of gall- stones of moderate size becoming fixed in either the tubuli, the pori, the hepatic duct, the cystic duct, or the common duct, more or less jaundice, continuing for a longer or shorter time, usually takes place. On the other hand, numerous instances have been recorded of gall-stones being discharged either by the bowels, or by ulcera- tion through the parietes of the abdomen, in which no jaundice had at any time appeared. When gall-stones are small, their presence probably gives rise to few or no symptoms. But when they are large, there is strong reason to believe that they induce symptoms of considerable seve- rity. These symptoms may be of two sorts. In one set of cases they are supposed to be those of excruciating pain, and that of a spasmodic character. In another set of cases they induce well-marked symp- toms of either peritoneal inflammation, or of intestinal obstruction, or ileus, or of both combined. When gall-stones are small and numerous, and are contained in the gall-bladder, they cause little uneasiness; and numerous ex- amples show that they may remain in that situation to the end of a long life without giving rise to prominent symptoms. When, on the other hand, they are large, and either are con- tained in any of the ducts or get into these canals, they cause very serious evils. Pain in the epigastric region, often of an excruciat- ing character, relieved only by incurvating the trunk, vomiting, jaundice, constipation, are all effects which have been observed to result from the presence of gall-stones in the ducts. These symp- 41 An Account of an unusually large Biliary Calculus voided from the Rectum- By James A. Wilson, M. D. Med.-Chirurg, Trans., vol. xxvi. p. 80. London, 1843.