AIITERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 79 do not contract or move when punctured by the scalpel. 2. The experiments of Bikker and Y an-den-Bos with the electiic spailc, and those of Vassalli-Eandi, Gfiulio, and Rossi with the galvanic pile, may be considered as disproved by the experiments of Nysten,* who found no contraction in the human aorta after violent death, while the heart and other muscles could still be excited. In per- forming the same experiment with the artery of the living dog this physiologist was equally disappointed. 3. The circular contraction of the calibre of an artery, either partially or wholly divided, de- pends not on irritability, but either on its elasticity, or on that pro- perty which it possesses of contracting strongly, the instant the dis- tending agent is removed. This power, which was rather happily named by Bichat contractilite par clefaut d'extension, is quite differ- ent from muscular contraction or irritability, and must not be con- founded with them ; but it depends in a degree not much less on the living state of the body and the individual arterial tube. 4. The contraction said to take place in living arteries after the appli- cation of alcohol, acids, or alkalis, is to be ascribed to the chemical crispation, and not to stimulant power. It does not relax. 5. These inferences are not inconsistent with the experiments of Thom- son, Philips, Hastings, and Kaltenbrunner, on minute arterial tubes, which may be admitted to possess something like irritability, or ra- ther susceptibility of contraction, without the necessity of supposing the same property in the large branches and trunks. 6. This is so much more probable, as in these minute arteries the proper arte- rial tunic is either wanting, or is so much thinner and so modified, that it is impossible to conceive its presence capable of affecting the result of experiments made to determime the degree or kind of ar- terial contraction. 3. The outer surface of the proper arterial tissue is enveloped, as above noticed, in a layer of dense filamentous or cellular mem- brane, which is very firmly attached to it, and which was formerly considered as part of the arterial tissue. It is adventitious; a mo- dification of filamentous or cellular texture which establishes a com- munication between the artery and the contiguous parts, and is ne- cessary to the nutrition and healthy state of the vessel. It incloses and transmits the minute vessels anciently denominated vasa vaso- rum, (arterioles artcriarum, Haller ;) and it detached even through * Nouvelles Experiences Galvaniques, &c. Par P. II. Nysten, &c. A Paris, An. XI. pp. 235 and 236.