717 SEROUS MEMBRANE.—PUERPERAL PERITONITIS. in one class of cases the principal circumstance is pm ulent inattei within the Fallopian tubes. The difficulty of recognizing this peculiar unctuous looking coat- ing has led several persons to deny the occurrence of pci itoneal in flamraation in this disease. There is, nevertheless, no doubt of the fact, and it should further be remembered that this appearance takes place in cases of the greatest rapidity, with the most obscure symp- toms, and in which the disease is occasionally developed beioie labour. Some females I have known die with the disease unde- livered. It must be observed, however, that puerperal fever is not a simple but a complicated lesion; and that it varies in different seasons in the same locality, and in different localities. Thus seveial foims of the disease, to which the name of puerperal fever is ap- plied, have been ascertained to affect the uterine, ovarian, and ab- dominal peritonaeum, the womb, the ovaries, and Fallopian tubes, the uterine veins, the uterine lymphatics, and the substance ot the womb itself. These different elementary tissues it may affect either separately or conjointly; either two or more of them simultane- ously or successively. Of these lesions some degree or form of inflammation of the pe- ritonaeum is the most frequent. Among 222 cases inspected by M. Tonnelle, in 193 traces of peritoneal inflammation were observ- ed, consisting in more or less redness of the intestinal or the ute- rine peritonaeum, or of the mesentery or omentum, sometimes with thin albuminous exudation, sometimes with copious exudation of opaque sero-albuminous fluid. In puerperal females peritonitis appears to originate most com- monly either in the uterine peritonaeum, or in that of the ovaries, or in that of the Fallopian tubes, or in the mucous or inner lining of these tubes. It is not easy to say to which of these points it shows the preference. If we trust to the numerical results given by M. Tonnelle, the disease commences most commonly in some point of the uterine peritonaeum, and next to that in the ovarian peritonaeum. This observer found among 222 inspections of the bodies of fe- males, destroyed by symptoms of puerperal fever, the following proportions of the lesions now referred to,— Cases. Marks of peritoneal inflammation in . 1,93 Changes in the womb and its appendages in . 197 Difference in favour of affections of womb, . 'I