GRANULATED LIVER. KIRRH0S1S. 880 When sections of a liver in this state are made, these sections present the same appearance of irregularly rounded bodies a^crre- gated together, as is seen at the surface. The colour is in general more of the orange-yellow tint, or that combined with wood-brown. These bodies are united by a species of gray filamentous or liga- mentous tissue; and both structures become more distinct on im- mersion in water, and after boiling. These bodies, though affecting the globular figure, vary much, if any are ovoidal or spheroidal; many are irregularly angular; not a ew are elongated with rounded or angular ends; and some look like e small stony fragments set in porphyry, or a small grained breccia, n size also they vary. Some are, as already stated, as large as good sized garden peas; and this volume they do not often exceed. Others aie smaller, of the magnitude of dried peas; others, again like tares Or vetches; and some not larger than millet seed. All are mixed confusedly together without any order. 1 he peritoneum may be stripped from these bodies; and they woTn appearance ofan aggregation of orange-brown or wood-brown looking bodies, all closely united and packed Th" close conjunction is evidently the cause of their variation ’in size and shape; for it is manifest, that if all were round thpv l i neither touch each other nor be of the same size; whereas beino different in size the small bodies are interspersed between the lar/e Sris,"'Sic- - —£52 1 have several times macerated sections of kirrhotic liver- i I always found that they required a long time months a. 1™ , ! part even with a portion of their greenfh c„b“hm Utte” In seveial cases I kept slices of erannla+oD 1* c ° ’ re to 24 months, in Sater 2° put them m spirits; and even then, in the course of a f P ^ the spirits were completely coloured green and .GW weeks» changed; and the spirit in which the section L qU1™d to be mersed, was again tinged green This f„ ^ l ’ pi.epared was lm" ^hich the colouring matter adheres to ^droehl^n^^faa^A LTk'^ 1^ tll<5 addition of the pr„minontZa:r„ • ° th,S8tete0f "" ** the namej^t^SS