BONE. 429 bo part of the bone, however compact in appearance, is destitute; and the only difference is, that they are more minute, and moie regularly circular towards the outer than towards the medullaiy surface." These circular holes are transverse sections of the tubuli of Lewenhoeck, the longitudinal pores of Havers, ( Osteologia, p. 4o and 46,) the pores and tubuli of Reichel, and the longitudinal ca- nals of Howship. They communicate with each other by means of their great multiplicity and slight obliquity and tortuosity. They contain not blood-vessels exclusively, but divisions of the vascular filamentous tissue, which secretes the marrow. They are seen very distinctly in bones which have been burnt. After many careful examinations, I have never been able to observe holes in longitudinal fractures of bones; and I therefore infer that there i are no transverse pores. These capillary pores are seen in the flat bones of the skull. I j find them in the compact matter of the outer and inner tables of the occipital bone when well burnt, in which they seem to pass gradually from the lattice-work of the diploe to the distinct pores of the tables. I doubt, however, whether these pores can be said, as in the long bones, to indicate canals. They seem rather to be- long to a very delicate cancellated structure. These pores are most numerous and distinct in the bones of young subjects. In the humerus of a child burnt to whiteness, I find them to be large, numerous, and distinct, even at the perios- teal surface of the bone. In that of a young man of 28, they are larger, more numerous, and more distinct than in bones of older subjects. In a very dense ulna before me, though distinct through a good glass, they are exceedingly minute, and quite imperceptible to the naked eye. Though these circular pores are most distinct in calcined bones, and might therefore be thought to be the result of the burning, yet that they are not, I infer from the circumstance that they are seen by a good glass in the transverse fracture of splinters of the femur and other large bones. If a portion of bone be immersed in sulphuric, nitric, muriatic, or acetic acid properly diluted, it becomes soft and pliable, and when dried, is found to be lighter than before'; yet it is impossible to discover that any particle of its substance has been mechanically removed, or that its shape and appearance are changed. If a portion of bone be placed in a charcoal fire, and the heat, be