809 STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—TESTES. “ When the artery reaches from one to three inches from the epididymis it divides into two branches, which descend to the tes- ticle, and its inner side, opposite to that on which the epididymis is placed; one passing on the anterior and upper, the other to the posterior and lower part of the testis. From the anterior branch the vessels of the epididymis arise. First, one passes to its head; secondly, another to its body; and thirdly, one to the tail and the first convolutions of the vas deferens, communicating freely with the deferential artery. The spermatic artery, after giving off branches to the epididymis, enters the testis by penetrating the outer layer of the tunica albuginea ; and, dividing upon its vascular layer, they form an arch by their junction at the lower part of the testis’ from which numerous vessels pass upwards ; and then descending they supply the lobes of the tubuli seminiferi. Besides this lower arch there is another passing in the direction of the rete, extremely convoluted in its course, and forming an anastomosis between the principal branches. The testis receives a further supply of blood from another vessel, the artery^of the no* deferens, or posterior spermatic artery, which arises from one of the vesical arteries branches of their internal iliac. This artery divides into two sets o! branches, one set descending to the veswula seminalis and to the termination of the vas deferens; the other ascending upon the vas deferens, runs in a serpentine direction upon the coat of that vessel passing through the whole length of the spermatic chord; and when it reaches the tail of the epididymis, it divides into two sets of branches, one advancing to unite with the spermatic artery to supply the testa and epididymis, the other passing backwards to the tmila vaginaks and cremaster.” a The spermatic veins issue from the testis in three sets; one from the rcfe and tubuli; another from the vascular layer of the tunZ albuginea ; and a third from the lower extremity of the deferens. ie veins of the testis pass in three courses into the beginning of e spermatic chord. Of these, two quit the back of the testis one at its anterior and upper part; and a second at its centre’and thereafter from two to three inches are united into one ThT’, T column accompanies the vas deferens. The veins of th* •, ,°ther issuing from the head, body, and tail with J r the epididymis, r, terminate in the’veJk f ter quitting the testis, become very tortnnn« if • ^eins> a*‘ divisions and inosculations, constitute the pl^K^T