GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY-. 732 from the plexus. There is no reason to suppose that the vessels of this web’are ruptured in this form of hemorrhage. The fluid is rarely pure blood, generally sanguinolent; but even if pure the observations of Bichat, Merat, and Serres, show that it may ooze by exhalation from the plexus. It constitutes the meningeal apo- plexy of Serres.* The causes of this form of hemorrhage are often as obscure as those of hemorrhage in the substance of the brain. Yet in certain cases it is possible to trace a connection between these hemorrhages and the state of the arteries, exactly as in hemorrhage into the substance of the brain. For this reason, it is proper, in order to complete the pathology of cerebral hemorrhage, to advert to the state of the blood-vessels which are conveyed along the membranes of the brain. § 2. Effects of the Steatomatous and Osteo-steatomatous Degene ration oj the Cerebral Arteries on the Circulation of the Brain and its Membranes.—Though to this change as a predisposing cause to softening and hemorrhage I have already adverted, it may not be improper to take in this place a general view of the transformation and its several effects. The tunics of the arteries of the brain are liable, in advanced life, to become penetrated with steatomatous and osteo-steatomatous matter to an extreme degree and a very general extent. They then become rigid, unyielding, opaque, inelastic, and are no longer capable of conveying the blood as pliant transmissile tubes. Though this change affects most usually the internal carotid and its branches, as the Sylvian artery, the anterior communicating arteries, and the circle of Willis, and next to these the basilar artery, yet it may ex- tend over all the arteries of the brain, great and small. In an ex- treme and extensive example of the disease in my collection, the whole of the trunks and branches of the internal carotid and basilar arteries have become completely penetrated and transformed by this change, and show its effects in various modes. In some parts the arteries are enlarged in external circumference, without increas- ing the internal capacity, and often diminishing it, in consequence of the deposition between the middle and inner coats. In all parts, the internal area of the arteries is more or less diminished; in some it is contracted so much, that the canal of the vessel appears * On Extravasations of Blood into the cavity of the Arachnoid, and on the forma- tion of the False Membrane which sometimes envelopes these extravasations. By Prescott Hewett, Esq. Medico-Chirurgical Trans, vol. xxviii. p. 45. London, 1845.