355 BRAIN. Bouillaud shows that, though it cannot be said to regulate the whole of these motions, it co-ordinates those concerned in equilibrium, the state of rest, and the different forms of locomotion. It seems fur- ther to be the seat of a modification of memory, that of voluntary motion. When disordered, the memory is obliterated, the motions are impaired or disordered, and the patient exhibits all the pheno- mena of imbecility, in willing any regular or steady motion, or in preserving any sensible attitude of rest.* 15. Anencephalous Malformation. Deficiency of the ichole Brain or of its parts. (Enkeplialelleipsis.)—This should be noticed else- where, under the head of affections dependent on the membranes and blood-vessels. But it may render the history of the abnormal states of the brain more complete, to introduce here a short account of a species of malformation arising from interruption of the process of development. Instances of acephalous foetuses, as they have been named, are numerous from the first records of anatomy to the present time. They vary in degree from deficiency of the whole brain to that of more or fewer of its parts. All of them depend, so far as is hither- to ascertained, on the same general cause, a sudden check given to the process of growth in this organ or some of its parts, while the others continue to increase. The general accuracy of this conclu- sion is established by the researches of Meckel, j of Duncan, Junior,}: of Breschet,§ and of Serres.|| In 1835 I collected from different sources several cases, in order to illustrate the nature of the malfor- mation, and the mode in which it is effected ;^[ and subsequently the subject has been elucidated by Cruveilhier.** The mode in which the growth of the brain is arrested may be understood from the history of the progressive development of the organ, which I have above stated is formed by deposition from the vascular membrane, commencing near the centre of the * Recherches Experimentales, &c. Par J. Bouillaud, Membre-Adjoint, &c. Archives Gindrales, Tome xv. p. 64. t Handbuch der Pathologischen Anatomie. Von J. F. Meckel. Leipzig, 1612. + Case of Hydrocephalus with Bifid Brain, in Medico-Chirurgical Trans. Edin.Vol.i. p. 205. § Note sur deux enfans nouveaux-nes hydrocephales et manquant de cerveau Par J. Breschet, Journal de Physiologie, Tome ii. p. 269. Ilde Note sur des enfants Nou- veaux-nes, &c. Par G. Breschet, Jour, de Phys. Tome iii. 232. II Essai sur une Theorie Anatomique des Monstrosites Animates. Revue Medicale, Tome vL p. 180. Paris, 1821. If Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. XL1V. p. 527, Oct. 1835. “ Cinquieme Livraison et Huitieme Livraison. Paris, 1883.