GASTRIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE—MINERAL ACIDS. "Iff of sulphuric acid. But the citron yellow coloration of the gastric tissues is here also conspicuous. The vapour of nitric acid also operates on the organs of inspi- ration. Hydrochloric acid is less frequently employed, eitliei accidentally or intentionally, apparently than sulphuric acid. But its effects are very similar. Crispation and detachment of the oesophageal epi- dermis; charring of the interior of the stomach; blackening and coagulation of the blood in the blood-vessels ; corrosion of the gas- tric tissue; and a dark mottled appearance of the neighbouring viscera; are all lesions which have been observed after deglutition of this acid. The bile is rendered of a bright grass green wherever the acid comes in contact with it.* The duration of life after deglutition of the concentrated mineral acids, varies according to circumstances from four or five hours to twenty-five or thirty hours. The further examination of this point, however, belongs to toxi- cology. f In many cases of canine madness the oesophageal and gastric membrane has been found reddened and covered with viscid mucus; (Morgagni, Baillie, Babington, Ferriar, Marcet, Powel, Pinckard, &c.) and several authors have here been inclined to ascribe the symptoms of that disease to oesophageal and gastric inflammation. Admitting, however, that appearances of this kind are sufficient to constitute spreading or diffuse inflammation of the mucous surface, it does not follow that this is the cause of the hydrophobic symp- toms. The oesophageal and gastric redness is not constant; and its presence and degree, which are secondary, depend rather on the violent spasmodic motions of the muscles of deglutition and the diaphragm, than on positive or primary inflammation. The affection of the gastric mucous membrane occurring in fever, as remarked by Roederer and Wagler, Sarcone, Pinel, and others, shall be noticed afterwards. § 3. The duodenum is liable to morbid lesions similar to those af- fecting the stomach. Chronic inflammation appears to be the most common affection in that part of the alimentary canal. Under its influence the duodenal mucous membrane becomes firm, rigid, and a little thickened. Its glandular apparatus also is liable to be hy- * Case of Poisoning by Muriatic Acid. London Medical Gazette, 1839, No. 15.