563 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. arches so distinctly seen in the ileum. From the convexity of these arches in general, are sent off the small vessels, which are then fitted, after passing through the muscular layer and the submucous tissue, to enter the mucous corion. The capillary terminations, then, of these arteries, and their cor- responding veins, constitute the physical cause of the coloration of the mucous membranes. This coloration, however, is not at all times of the same intensity in the same membrane, and varies chiefly according to the state of the organ which the membrane covers. The coloration of the gastro-enteric mucous membrane undergoes, even within the limits of health, many variations. Thus, according to the absence or presence of such foreign substances as are taken at meals, the mucous membrane is pale, or presents various shades of redness. At the period of menstruation the ute- rine mucous membrane becomes red and injected. Pressure on any of the venous vessels renders the mucous membrane blue, purple, or livid, as is seen in prolapsus, and more distinctly in asphyxia, in which all the mucous membranes assume a livid tint. (Bichat.) The varieties of red colour observed in the gastric mu- cous membrane by Dr Yellowly are to be ascribed partly to the latter cause, partly to the vascular redness which the presence of foreign bodies occasions.* Where death is the result of asphyxia, rapid or slow, the gastric and intestinal mucous membranes are often much loaded with blood. In death from disease of the heart, when the fatal event is preceded by great anguish, I have often seen the gastric mucous membrane of a deep red colour, and occasionally livid and approach- ing to black. The dependant portions of the intestinal convolu- tions are, under the same circumstances, much loaded with blood, mostly in veins. These appearances must not be confounded with inflammation. They merely imitate that process, and are pseudo- inflammatory. The pulmonary division of this membrane is of an ash-gray or dun colour, inclining to pale-blue or light-red. These colours vary, nevertheless, according to the facility or the difficulty with which the blood moves through the pulmonary capillary system. It is also freely supplied with blood-vessels derived chiefly from the bronchial arteries. These vessels, after accompanying the bron- Obscrvations on the vascular appearance in the Human Stomach, which is fre- quently mistaken for inflammation of that organ. By John Yellowly, M. D. &c. Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. IV. p. 371.