GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 134 minute artery is not of the bright red colour which it possesses in the trunk and large branch from which the minute artery derives its blood, but is gradually acquiring the dark hue which belongs to the blood of the venous branches and trunks. By some, again, this direct communication of minute arteries and veins is denied. Thus, according to Doellinger, the arteries at their last ramifications are devoid of proper membranous walls; the blood moves in immediate contact with the solid matter of the body, which is in truth the fundamental or penetrating filamentous tissue; and from this it passes into the venous tubes and lym- phatics, which also arise from this substance. According to Wilbrand, again, who equally denies this direct communication of arteries and veins, all the blood is converted into organic fibres and secretions; and these organic fibres becom- ing gradually fluid are converted into blood and lymph, which con- tinue the circulation. These notions are too fanciful and too incapable of demonstra- tion to become the object of serious attention to the anatomist. It is of little moment whether the vessels in the ultimate ramifications possess tunics or not. When they cease to possess tunics they cease to be vessels; and to carry observation beyond this point is either impracticable or useless. In other respects the investigation of this point belongs to the subject of the exhalant vessels. This idea is, however, adopted by Wedemeyer, who founds it chiefly on the fact, that he could not detect by the microscope any membrane interposed between the parenchyma of the tissues and the blood moving in the minuter capillaries, or rather furrows in which it is seen. It must be allowed that this idea receives some confirmation from a fact to be afterwards noticed, that during in- flammation, new vessels are observed by the microscope to be formed in inflamed parts. Bichat has described two great capillary systems in the human body. ls£, The general one, or that which consists of the minute terminations of the aortic divisions, and the origins of the superior and inferior great veins; and, 2d, The pulmonary capillary system, or that which consists of the minute terminations of the pulmonary artery, and the origins of the pulmonary veins. It is evident, that the manner in which the first of these systems is here repre- sented, communicates a very incorrect idea of its true character;