805 STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—TESTES. jection, by the microscope. The Bellinian ducts advance straight through the medullary cones, and then passing into the cortical matter, become bent. They appear a little larger than the medul- lary ducts upon entering the cortical portion. § V. THE TESTIS. In the Insect tribes and Articulate animals, the testes assume an endless variety of forms. All, indeed, consist of tubules mostly simple; but these are arranged in so great a variety of forms, that it is extremely difficult to give a short, and at the same time accu- rate view of these forms. In Fishes, the organs corresponding to Testes appear to be con- structed in two different modes. 1. For the most part, the testes are composed of multiplied seminiferous canals or ducts. 2. Less frequently the testes are entirely solid, and are composed of globules without internal canals, and without deferent duct; the substance of which passes from the external surface into the cavity of the abdo- men, from^which it is conveyed outwards by one single orifice ex- actly as the ova. The best examples of these structures are ’seen in the eel and petromyzon. In such animals the ova and the testes, or matter composing the testes, are so similar, that they are often confounded. In the herring and shad the structure is the following From the efferent duct, running by the side or margin of the milt ( Tes- ^5), the largest tubules proceed close to each other, approaching to the lobes attached to the common duct. But the further division is effected, not only by ramification, but also by numberless reticu- lar anastomoses, so that almost the whole substance of the testis or milt consists, in the month of May, of anastomoses of large ducts filled with seminal fluid, which are distinctly seen by the naked eye From the reticulated ansce, however, proceed also other branching canals, variously separated, which terminate here and there m free but closed ends. Towards the outer margin and at the opposite side of the lobes, the branchy divisions are most abundant, while the anastomoses are less frequent; so that the rnargm itself is almost composed of straight twig-like tubules, which factwtth'T f ’ “ m the eXt,'erae marSin and at s^- tace with closed ends. The internal branches are dispersed in vn 2TueCtl°USi alUhe external an(l marginal ones promstTin ^a ght C°UrSe t0 the surface> 80 that on the surface of one side of