GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 810 piniformia. After entering the pelvis they form one or two veins which terminate on the right side of the vena cava inferior, and on the left in the renal vein, though this is liable to some variety. The left spermatic vein passes under the sigmoid flexure of the co- lon,—a circumstance important to be remembered, in certain mor- bid states of the gland and its vessels. Several anatomists represent the spermatic veins to be void of valves ; and to this circumstance ascribe the occurrence of va- ricocele. Mr Curling states, that he has several times injected these veins with alcohol, and on laying them open, he observed valves in the larger veins, and found the passage of the alcohol ar- rested by the valves. Valves are not seen near the testis, or in the small veins forming the plexus, nor did Mr Curling observe them within the abdomen. § VI. THE MAMMA. The Mammalia are the only class of vertebrated animals which possess the glands called Mammae or Breasts; Birds, Reptiles, and Fishes, being destitute of these; and in this order the confor- mation of these glands appears under two forms. 1. In the higher Mammalia and in man the elementary particles of the Mammae, or the ends of the lactiferous tubes, are small vesi- culse, joined to stalks by small branches of lactiferous tubules in the manner of cluster of grapes or berries, and enclosed by a very delicate cellular tissue. These acini of vesicles constitute the smallest lobules. Several clustering acini united to the twigs of a larger branch form a large tubule or one of the second order; and when several of these are conjoined they form a tubule of the third order. These lactiferous tubes then uniting form trunks of lactiferous ducts, which, either united open into the nipple, as in the udder of the Ruminants, or separately perforate the nipple, as in the human female and various other mammalia. 2. The second form of mamma is more rarely met with, and is observed in families of the mammalia, which may be regarded as the lowest in that class ; namely, in the Cetacea, and in the duck- bill (ornithorhyncus paradoxus), and probably in the echidna. In tnese animals the structure is reduced to that of a glandular organ, such as first presents itself in the lowest mammalia, or in the most simple form, that is in the shape of closed intestinula, collected in one mass.