VI] PREFACE. ponent tissues of the animal body, as derived from the similitude and difference of their anatomical characters; and, though the ad- vantages of this method have been recognized by John Hunter, Carmichael Smyth, Bichat, Dr Thomson, and Beclard, I am not aware that any complete system of pathological anatomy has been hitherto constructed according to its principles. The present at- tempt is, I believe, the first instance, in which it has been carried to the length of a full though elementary treatise. It is almost superfluous to enter into any detailed account of the principles on which this work is composed. In describing both the sound and morbid states of the different organic tissues, I have in general indicated the sources of my information. On the subject of the normal or healthy states, without neglecting the labours of previous authors, it has been my study to give accurate descriptions of the objects from frequent and careful personal dissection. What- ever I have stated on my own authority has been from repeated and rather elaborate examination; and if I have erred or misrepresent- ed, it is not from carelessness or indifference in the endeavour to insure accuracy. In describing the pathological changes incident to each tissue, it has been my study not so much to speak from personal observation, as to generalize with fidelity the results of the researches of others. In a subject so extensive and so complicated as Morbid Anatomy, individual observation and research are of little avail, unless as they tend to confirm, to correct, or to modify the results obtained by otner inquirers. The duty of the author of an elementary treatise in such circumstances is chiefly to compare and generalize these re- sults. For these reasons, I have seldom spoken of what I have seen myself, unless where that tended either to confirm some un- certain inference; to settle some controverted or ambiguous point; or to verify views, in favour of which information was either scanty, deficient, or contradictory. I must, however, say, that, in adducing the testimony of other observers, I have in no instance spoken on subjects which I have not taken care to verify myself. Of every morbid change described, the description is derived in some instan-