DISEASED STATES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 971 § 8. Ossification is probably always to be traced to the tunica albuginea. Patches of bone appear in this and in its processes. § 9. Hydatoma. Cysto-sarkoma.—The testis resembles the female mamma in the frequency with which this growth is formed in its substance. Cysts, similar to hydatids, one, two, or several in number, sometimes many, are formed in the parenchyma of the gland. These may be so numerous as to occupy the whole body of the testis, the natural structure of which is displaced and disappears. The nature and origin of this disease is imperfectly known. Sir Astley Cooper was inclined to regard it as formed from enlarged and obstructed seminiferous tubes, because they are not distinct bags, but send out solid processes by which they are connected with other bags. Dr Hodgkin regards them as serous cysts formed in the substance of the gland. It must be allowed that the cysts are rarely so large as in the breast; and it is quite possible that this lesion of the testis may be different from the hydatoma of the breast. It merely remains to be observed, that cysts of the kind now de- sciibed seem common to the kidney, the mamma, and the testis. § 10. Of the Heterologous Growths, both skirrhus and en- kephaloma are observed in the testis. It is difficult to say which of these two is the most common. Skirrhus occurs, as in other or- gans, rather at a late period of life. Enkephaloma may take place at any age, but shows a preference for the early period, that is, e ore 40. A character of distinction more important is that, when enkephaloma appears in the testis, the same structure is generally round in the abdomen. The anatomical characters of both are similar to those in other organs. § 11. Colloid or Gelatiniform cancer takes place in the teshs; but much more rarely than the other two lesions now men- tioned, and infinitely more seldom in the testis than in the stomach and some other organs. § 12. Melanoma also occurs, but not very frequently, unless at the same time at winch it appears in the abdomen. Section VIII. Diseased? States of the Prostate Gland The princiial morbid states of the prostate gland are snppura- hon within he ducts; chrome enlargement or hypertrophy of the g and and its effects; and enlargement of the middle lobe.