BRAIN. 345 miting, followed by palsy of the right side, and complete derangement. In a few days more she became comatose, and, with complete right hemiplegia and stertorous respi- ration, she expired. In the upper middle of the left hemisphere, which was softened all round, a little beneath the convoluted substance, was a small yellowish granular nut. Anteriorly in the striated body was a cancerous tumour as large as a nut, com- pressing the ventricle. In the right hemisphere, which was sound and consistent in its anterior three-fourths, but injected towards the posterior-inferior region, was a cancer- ous tumour as large as a small nut, with pulpy destruction of the surrounding sub- stance. This account is deficient in failing to state the physical characters of the several tumours. A record more instructive is found in the following:— M. Andral Fils, Cancer du Cerveau, from La Charite, in the wards of M. Lerminier, Journal de Pliysiologie, Tome ii. p. 105, 1822.—A man of 58 felt fifteen years before acute pain of the right temple, radiating in the right side of the head and face, and lasting for six weeks. During subsequent years it returned at irregular intervals, and continued for periods of various duration till two months previous to admission, when it became so intense, as to oblige the patient to give up his usual employments. With- out affection of sensation, intellect, or motion, he suffered severe tearing pain in the whole right side of the head, and slight convulsive motions of the face, followed after eight days by palsy of the lower limbs, and soon after by coma, which continued in a greater or less degree for a few days, when he died. Tn the centre of the right hemi- sphere, outside of the optic thalamus and corpus striatum, the space of four finger- breadths long, and two or three unde, was a reddish-gray, knotty, rough, unequal sur- face, which when cut resisted like the scirrhous masses of the stomach or liver. In the resisting points was a substance of areolar texture, bluish-white colour, semitran- sparent, very hard, presenting here and there minute cavities containing a fluid like apple-jelly ; (scirrhus proceeding from the crude to the softening stage). In other points was a firm texture of dirty white colour, traversed by reddish lines crossing in various directions (supposed to be encephaloid texture in the crude stage.) In other points was seen a reddish-purple, which appears to have been simply softened brain. Bouillaud, Traite Clinique et Physiologique de l’Encephalite. 1825.—A lady of 77, with convulsive motions of the left arm, followed by palsy of that and of the left leg, impaired speech, complete hemiplegia, and death by exhaustion, without loss of con- sciousness, a firm, yellowish, lardaceous, bulky, many-lobed mass, occupying the greater part of the posterior lobe, almost the whole of the middle lobe, and part of the anterior lobe of the right hemisphere. Contiguous to the optic thalamus, which was entirely softened, a lobule penetrated below the striated body, and reached the exterior of the middle lobe, where it was connected with the membranes and the bone. Softening all round.* Ibid.—A man of G6. Right hcmiplegy twice, followed by raving, unintelligible speech, insensibility, coma, and death. In the central and posterior part of the left hemisphere a hard irregular mass, internally of a saffron-yellow colour in some parts of a rust-yellow in others, jaspered, marked by numerous small white bodies varying from the size of a lentile and a pea to that of a filbert, furrowed in various directions by minute filaments. I he hardest of these bodies M. Bouillaud regards ns scirrhous mat- ter in the crude stage. Others resembling a white concentrated glue, he thinks, might * This case is stated to be already published in the work of M. Rostan. This, however, appears to he a mistake. the only example of cancer in the brain recorded in that work is the case above men- tioned of Marie Gerard. With this it evidently does not correspond, either in age or in other circumstances, a case of tumour called cancerous is also given in the “ Observations” of M. Lermi- nier.—Annuaire Medieo-Chirurg. p. 22/>.