451 BONE. then ulceration of the periosteum; and lastly, ulceration or caries in the new bony matter, which appears to continue to be deposited irregularly. This, which is the carious ulcer {ulcus cariosum,) of practical authors, may be seen in the legs of those who have been affected by the constitutional symptoms of syphilis, and who have undergone for its cure repeated courses of mercury.* In the cases in which I have seen it, it gave rise to extreme local pain and great constitutional disorder, requiring amputation; and one case ter- minated fatally. Occurring in the bones of the cranium, which it occasionally does, it is one of the forms of the disease described by the older authors under the fantastic appellation of the garland of Venus ; ( Corona Veneris.) X_. Exostosis Periostei. Osteo-sarcoma. That the periosteum may be concerned in extensive but morbid secretion of osseous matter, giving rise to that form bf tumour which has been term- ed by some exostosis, and by others osteosarcoma, has been al- ready noticed. (P. 424.) The periosteum becoming thicken- ed and morbidly vascular and painful, assumes additional energy in the deposition of bony matter over a certain space. But the bone so deposited is never arranged in the manner of heal- thy bone. Sometimes it is in the form of a large shapeless pro- minence deposited on the outer surface of the original bone. This, which was remarked by Pouteau,f IIoustet,J Herissant,§ Flajani, |] and Monteggia, has been verified by Howship. Some- times it occurs in one point of the bone in the form of a spheroidal tumour, in which the osseous matter is arranged in the form of long needle-like fibres, radiating from one or more points, not un- like radiated zeolite. In other instances it occurs in the form of amorphous masses of bone, much like pieces of calcareous sinter. (Houstet.) In others again, a central granular mass is surrounded by acicular bony fibres. Of these growths the interior structure varies. They are never masses of solid bone; but the bony matter is so arranged that it leaves spaces or intervals filled in some instances with soft flesh- coloured spongy matter; (the fungous exostosis of Sir A. Cooper ;) Of this kind appear to be the tibia and fibula delineated by Roberg. See his Dissert, in Haller Disp. Chirurg. Tom. IV. p. 561. t CEuvres Posthumes, Tom. III. £ Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. Tom. III. p. 130. § Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. des Sciences. 1750, p. 676. 1! Collezione d’Osservaz. e Rifless. Tom. II.