MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—DEPOSITS IN THE VEINS, 999 the third volume of the Dublin Medical Journal. This gentleman found in the body of a young man who died after labouring for fifteen days under symptoms of pneumonic inflammation, a consi- derable collection of purulent matter beneath the pulmonic pleura of the lower lobe of the left lung, and between it and the bronchial tubes and vesicles of the lung—dissecting away as it were the pleura, from the lung, destroying, or at least converting into puru- lent matter, the pulmonic filamentous tissue, and leaving the pul- monic vesicles and bronchial tubes comparatively untouched. This must be regarded as not only an example of suppuration of the lung, but as proving clearly, that the seat of this form of pneumo- nia is in the pulmonic parenchyma or filamentous tissue, as already inculcated.* § 7. Pulmonary Phlebitis. Collections of Matter in the Veins of the Lungs.—I have met with two or three ex- amples, in which, without expecting any morbid appearance, * I found the pleura sound, the lungs interspersed at considerable distances with numerous minute abscesses, but the intermediate tissue quite healthy. As it occurred that these were softened tubercles, the whole organ was carefully examined, yet without finding anything but minute spherical abscesses of various sizes, and with the surrounding texture natural. The peculiarity, therefore, of this species of suppuration, is its not being preceded by tubercles, the surrounding pulmonic tissue being neither in- flamed nor indurated, and the simultaneous formation of many purulent points. Dr Baillie, by whom this species of suppuration had been seen, thought it probable that the abscesses were produced by a number of scattered tubercles taking on the process of suppuration. When however these purulent collections are carefully examined, they are found to take place within the veins of the lungs. Of this I am satisfied from having observed these deposits ensue after inflamma- tion of the veins of the arm, consequent on blood-letting. They take place also after amputation of the extremities, in which the medullary membrane and veins of the bones have been inflamed and suppurate, and occasionally atter other injuries which proceed to suppuration.f DubJin Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. iii. Contribiftions to Thoracic Pathology by Dr Stokes, p. 51. + Observations on Depositions ot Pus and Lymph occurring in the Lungs and other viscera after injuries of different parts of the Body. By Thomas Bose, Esq. &c. Me- dico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xiv. p. 251. London, 1828.