GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 294 more recently, I may add, by Dr Abercrombie, that complete symptoms of apoplexy may result from mere general injection of the cerebral vessels. The same phenomenon appears to have been witnessed by Cheselden. (Book iii. chap. 14, p. 224.) If, on this point, my own observation be entitled to any weight, I may add, that in 1817 I had occasion to examine the body of a young wo- man who died with all the symptoms of well-marked apoplexy ; and though every part of the brain was cut into minute portions with the utmost care, no effusion of red blood could be recognized. The only abnormal appearance was some injection of the vessels going to the annular protuberance and medulla oblongata.* 4th, Though in several cases of persons cut off with well-marked apoplectic symptoms, I have found extravasated blood, it bore no proportion to the severity of the disease. Instead of being in the shape of clots in distinct cavities, it consisted simply of long linear streaks of blood stretching through parts of the brain, sometimes in the neighbourhood of blood-vessels. In such cases, however, the blood- vessels were much injected, especially in the vicinity of the mem- branes. In other instances capillary injection is observed in the corpora striata or substance of the hemispheres. This is the capil- lary apoplexy of M. Cruveilhier. Upon the whole, I conceive it legitimate to infer, that the essen- tial anatomical character of apoplexy is injection of the vessels of the brain more or less general. This may terminate in one of two modes, both of which are accidental and accessory. The first is ef- fusion of serous fluid ; the second is effusion of red blood. Serous fluid exhaled from the capillaries has been supposed to constitute a peculiar form of apoplexy entirely distinct from that termed sanguine, and depending on extravasation of blood. In the writings of morgagni and others are cases in which the effusion of serous fluid was associated with distinct and general vascular injec- tion. Cases of this description are referred by Stoll to the head of sanguine apoplexy, in which the pathological character is injection or accumulation, which is at once the cause of the serous effusion and of the apoplectic symptoms, j- It was afterwards demonstrated ever, to have been a case depending on vascular injection of the medulla oblongata and spinal chord. * Case of Ann Dinwiddie. Clinical Ward. “ In apoplecticorum secto cerebro frequenter leguntur vasa cerebri sanguine tur gida, et serum mullum effusum. Hujus generis apoplexi* plerumque serosa: audiunt. Verius sanguinece appellarentur ; accumulates enim intra caput sanguis, et sen e usi, et apoplexi® causa est; serum ipsum effusum ad concausas pertinct serins accei cn es,