230 GENERAL AND PRTHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. corresponds to what is called the brain proper, (cerebrum ;) the se- cond to the small brain, (cerebellum;) and the third to the oblong cylindrical body contained within the vertebral column, and known under the name of spinal chord. The convoluted portion presents two surfaces, an outer or con- voluted, and an inner or figurate. The laminated portion in like manner presents two surfaces, an outer or laminated, and an inner or central. The third has only one exterior surface. The exterior surface of the convoluted division of the organ is formed into eminences longitudinal and rounded, but directed in various ways, and separated from each other by deep hollows. These eminences have been named convolutions or circumvolutions, (gyri, Soemmering, Wenzel,) and the depressions sulci or furrows. This surface of the organ is most properly termed the convoluted surface. To see it distinctly, the vascular membrane termed pin ' mater, (meninx tenuis,) (Das Gefasshaut,) must be cautiously re- moved by dissection. The convoluted surface communicates with another interior sur- face at two parts; 1st, on the middle plane, under the posterior end of the middle band or meso-lobe, (corpus callosum;) 2d, on each side of the middle plane, at the outer margin of the fluted masses termed limbs of the brain, (crura cerebri); (Die Hirnschen- kel); between these limbs and the posterior end of the optic cham- ber or couch, (thalamus opticus)', (Der Sehhugel.) This surface of the organ may be termed the central or figurate. The exterior surface of the cerebellum is differently disposed. Instead of presenting convoluted eminences, it consists of thin por- tions of cerebral substance, placed contiguously, and either paral- lel or concentric. These portions, which have been named plates (laminae,) or leaves (folia,) are separated from each other by fur- rows of various depth. This surface, which may be named the laminar or foliated surface of the small brain, communicates also with the figurate surface; 1st, at its superior part on the middle plane, between the semilunar notch (Der halbmondforinige Aus- schnitt; Red); behind, and the white cerebral plate termed Vieus- senian valve, before. 2d, At its inferior surface between the parts termed almonds by Malacarne, or spinal lobules by Gordon above, and the upper end (medulla oblongata) of the spinal chord, below. The convoluted surface of each hemisphere may be convenient- ly divided into the following five regions; 1. The commutual or