tracheobronchial mucous membrane. 605 probably either the same with the tubercular deposit, or very simi- lar to it in the mode and situation in which it takes place. § 8. Dilatation and Hypertrophy of Bronchi. In certain circum- stances of chronic bronchial disease the bronchi become greatly en- larged, and their walls are thickened, with thickening of the mem- brane. The diameter of the tubes may be increased in this state to half an inch. Of this lesion Dr Carsewell gives an excellent representation in his Fourth Division, first engraving ;* and an in- stance is described by Mr Watt of Manchester as having been ex- hibited at the Pathological Society of that place, f § 9. Dilatation of the Bronchial Tubes.—Of one species of dila- tation I have already partially spoken, as taking place along with ob- struction and obliteration of these canals. There is yet to be noticed another, which, according to my own observation, takes place either solely or principally in connection with aneurismal enlargement and dilatation of the aorta or innominata. Of this I have seen se- veral examples; and from these, especially one published,} I give the following characters of the lesion. The lesion is seated in the right lung, the lobes of which are generally solidified and inelastic, of a reddish-brown colour, and loaded with blood. The middle lobe and the lower one are gene- rally more completely and extensively solidified than the superior lobe; and the affection appears often to commence in the lower lobe, and thence proceed to the middle and upper lobes. The great change, however, is in the bronchial tubes, which in all the three lobes are greatly enlarged, losing their conical figure, and being converted either into large^cylindrical canals, or tubes with wide dilated spaces in their course. Bronchial tubes, which in their natural state are not larger than crow-quills, become, espe- cially in the lower and middle lobe, of the diameter of half an inch. Besides this, at various points in their course they undergo still greater dilatation, so as to form cavities communicating apparently with the bronchial tubes, and thereby with each other, but which, when carefully examined, are seen to be unusually enlarged por- tions of the bronchial tubes themselves.:} * Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease. By Robert Carsewell, M. D. Folio. London, 1838. Hypertrophy, Plate 1. ■f- London Medical Gazette, Vol. xxxix. p. 596. No. 100P. April 2, 1847. 7 Report on the Cases treated during the Course of Clinical Lectures delivered at the Royal Infirmary in the Session 1832-183.3. By. David Craigie, M. D., &.c. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xli. January 1834. P. 10(1. Case of Janet Waits.