GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. m In 1742 and 1743, Cornelius Trioen, a physician-surgeon at Leyden, published a series of medico-chirurgical cases, containing also observations on spina ventosa. This he distinguishes into three forms; spina ventosa, spina venenosa, and spina mitior. After stating as a general definition that spina ventosa consists in expan- sion or distension of the bony substance, and a sort of separation of the smooth or compact tissue of the bone and its tubuli from the substance, that is the cancellated tissue of the bone, by which the bone and the incumbent soft parts are enlarged much beyond then- wonted diameter; he adds, that the first is that in which the texture of the bone is not penetrated with purulent matter or other fluids, and that the threatened rupture of the hone is anticipated by death, while the bony substance may be inflated like a large globe. Of this he gives one instance in which the lower extremity of the femur is certainly expanded in this fashion into a large irregularly globu- lar tumour (p. 106, 108,) yet without the presence of ichor, puru- lent matter, or offensive smell, and in which the patient was de- stroyed by repeated hemorrhage. It must be allowed that the figure given of this case resembles much that kind of disease to which several surgeons in recent times have applied the name of Spina ventosa. The second form of the disease admitted by Trioen corresponds, it appears to me, with caries as it shows itself in the short or irre- gular bones of spongy cancellated tissue; for instance the hones of the carpus and metacarpus, and the tarsus and metatarsus, and the vertebrae. These he allows to be attended with swelling, small, livid, deep ulcers, admitting the probe to rough, denuded, often softened bones, and as occurring mostly in young persons of deli- cate constitution, corresponding to the Paedartlirocace of Severinus; (P. in.) The third form of the disease, which he terms spina mitior, corre- sponds, if we judge from the example of it adduced, with nelirosis. He describes it as affecting the middle or hard substance of bones, and after inducing swelling, causing the separation of the compact substance like plates, with discharge of matter, yet without foetor. Of this lie gives three examples taking place in the tibia, in each of which the fragments of dead bone were separated and expelled, with recovery of the patient. (P. 115, 118,)* It appears, therefore, that Trioen knew and described under the * Cornelii Trioen Medicinal Doctoris Observationum Medico Chirurgicnrum Fasci- culus. Lugduni Batavorum, 1743. 4to.