BRAIN. 283 cases, softening of the brain is preceded by the steatoraatous or osteo-steatomatous degeneration of the cerebral arteries, which ai e either specked, or opaque, or rigid and brittle, and by an unsound and irregular state ol the circulation within these vessels. The effects of this disease on the system are not very well dis- tinguished. They may be divided into common and proper. The common effects are dull pain, or sense of weight in the head, dull- ness, impaired memory, frequent drowsiness, and occasional peevish- ness at trifles, and paralytic affections of the face, head, and mem- bers. The proper effects are sense of formication, numbness, and rigidity, or occasional involuntary contractions of the muscles of the upper extremities, followed by delirium or fatuity, and a peculiar odour about the head, not dissimilar to that of the mouse. In the spinal chord it gives rise to numbness and rigid contraction of the muscles of the lower extremities, and eventually palsy more or less complete. These symptoms, which are chiefly those given by the French authors already mentioned, apply to the acute form of the disease. In more chronic states it seems not to affect the muscular motions considerably, but rather to induce fatuity and other forms of im- paired intellect. This inference at least results from some of the observations of Morgagni,* and those of Dr John Hunter, f This is the state of brain which takes place in cases of fatuity succeeding coup-de-soleil. 3. Suppurative Inflammation, Apostema Cerebri. Collections of purulent matter have been often found in the substance of the brain. That these collections may take place spontaneously, as a conse- quence of previous inflammation, is established by the testimony of Morgagni,$ Lieutaud,§ Baader,[| Baillie,'IT Powell,** Brodie,|f Hoo- per,!! and Abercrombie.§§ Of the observations of these authors the result is, that, though a collection of purulent fluid to a greater * Epist. viii. f Apud Baillie, Morbid Anatomy. + Epistola v. § I-Jistoria Anatornico-Medica. II Josephi Baader, Observat. Med. Obs. 22. Extat apud Sandifort Thesauruin, Vol. III. p. 28. H Engravings to illustrate the Morbid Anatomy, &c. X.‘Fasciculus, Plate vi. p. 221 ** Some Cases illustrative of the Pathology of the Brain. By Richard Powell, M. D. Transactions of the College of Physicians, Vol. V. p. 198, Case 6 and 8. ft Case of Abscess in the Brain. By B. C. Brodie, Esq., F. R. S., &c. Transactions of a Society, Vol. III. p. 106. W The Morbid Anatomy of the Human Brain. By Robert Hooper, M. D. London, 1826. Plate ix. p. 25. <j§ Abercrombie, Cases 31, 32, 33, and 34.