486 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. and that of E. Winckler by Ludwig.* Since that time cases have been published by Mr H. Thomsonf, Acrel,} Renard,§ and How- ship. || From these and similar cases it results, that in this disease the bones gradually lose their firmness and consistence, become soft, flexible, and may even be broken. The change is remarked first in the cylindrical bones, and though it extends to the others, it there continues to be most conspicuous. It consists in the bone becoming soft, sectile, reddish, and something like a mass of flesh. When any part remains unchanged, it is in the shape of thin scales or crusts at the outer part of the diaphysis, or occasional bony plates like portions of egg-shell intermixed. The cancellated struc- ture of the epiphysis entirely disappears, and in its place is found a soft homogeneous reddish mass. The situation of the marrow is occupied by a red, thick, semifluid matter like clotted blood, mixed with grease or suet. The flat bones of the skull are generally equally soft, flesh-like, and sectile. The cancellated structure of the diploe is equally destroyed, and its place is occupied by a uni- form soft reddish substance, from sections of which bloody serum exudes. The periosteum is sometimes thickened, but is often un- changed. The cause of this change is quite unknown. The most ingeni- ous and probable conjecture regarding it is that by Howship, who, from the necroscopic appearances of a well-described case, infers that it is the effect of a morbid action of the capillary arteries upon the medullary membrane within the bone; and that the disappear- ance of the latter is the effect of absorption exercised by the morbid secretion.H 7. Friability. Fragility. In the disease now described the bones may be broken by the weight of the person, or slight action of the muscles; and perhaps most cases of spontaneous fracture are re- ferable either to incipient osteo-sarkosis, to nehrosis, or to spina ven- tosa. One instance of this I certainly traced to incipient nekrosis. Others, perhaps, are more equivocal. Is the animal matter ab- sorbed ? 8. Interstitial absorption.—Under this name Mr B. Bell Jun. de- * Haller Disp. Mcd.-Pract. Tom. vi. p. 327, Lips. 1757. | Med. Obs. and Inquiries, Vol. v. p. 259. £ Dissertatio, &c. Upsalac, 1783. § Ramollissement Remarkable, &c. Mayence, 1804. || Medico-Chir. Tr. Ed. VoL ii. p. 136. H Case of Mollitia miuvi, &c. Med.-Chirurg. Tr. Edin. Vol. u. p. 136.