GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 736 nation, be found.* Lastly, in a case by Merat, two ounces of pure blood were found in the pericardium of a man of 53, who had la- boured under organic lesion of the heart and consecutive dropsy.f Baillie, to whom these effusions were known, was aware of the difficulty of explaining them, and conjectures that the blood may have oozed by transudation, or escaped from the extremities of the minute vessels, which he supposes may be inordinately relaxed.! The last supposition, it may be remarked, virtually admits exhala- tion. It must be observed, nevertheless, that the arteries on the sur- face of the heart are often diseased in this hemorrhage. § 6. Hcementeria. Peritoncemia.—Peritoneal hemorrhage is not uncommon. It occurs under two forms, the sanguinolent and the sanguine. A valuable instance of this hemorrhage, mentioned by Morgagni,§ is that of Laelio Laelii, a medical student, a native of his own town of Imola, in whose abdomen was found about 1A pound of fluid blood, with black spots of the peritonaeum. The best examples, however, are those recorded by Merat. In the first, there were three pints of bloody serum in the cavity, with evident marks of peritoneal inflammation. In a second, there were between two and three pints, and the membrane was covered with numerous granulations. It is reasonable to infer that this was tubercular disease of the peritoneum causing hemorrhage. In a third case, in which death took place 47 days after the first symptoms, upon inspection there were found about twenty pints of a fluid, first sanguinolent, then like pure blood, and lastly some clots. The marks of inflammation were so intense as to leave few traces of the original form of the abdominal viscera. || § 7. Hcematorchis.—Of hemorrhage from the vaginal coat, Bichat states that he met with two instances only ; and Merat acknowledges that be has not yet seen any example. On some.occasions this hemorrhage lays the foundation of the bloody tumour (luernatoma,) occasionally found in the vaginal coat. From the facts recorded it results that these hemorrhages, like those of the mucous tissue, are the result of exhalation. Bichat states, that after scrupulous examination of the inner surface of the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum, under these hemorrhages, he found the surface entire, and the vessels unbroken. There is every * Memoirs of the Medical Society, Vol. i. p. 238, Art. xviii. ■j. Memoires de la Societe Medicale d’Emulation, Vol. vii. p. 63. + Morbid Anatomy. § Epist. xxxv. 2. Case of Laelio Laelii. j| Memoires de la Societe Medicale d’Emulation, Tom. vii. p. 65.