GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 198 this surgeon, I conceive I am justified in asserting, that one more strictly pathological may be given. Considered as examples of inordinate exhalation without corre- sponding absorption, the species of encysted tumour may be enu- merated in the following order. «. Aceplialo-cysts or Hydatids are cysts secreting limpid watery fluid. They have been commonly believed to be living animals. And since the full account of their origin and nature by Laennec, this opinion has been almost universally received. They therefore do not properly belong to the present head, and should be arranged with that of parasitical productions. By Plenck the hydatid is regarded as a variety of the next species—the hygroma. Combined with atheromatous or steatomatous matter, hydatid-cysts are occasionally found in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. (Heunden apiul Tyson, sixty hydatids in a cyst in the neck.) 0. Hygroma. The serous cyst. Cysts secreting sero-purulent, or even a sero-sanguine fluid. This epithet Plenck applies to a spherical tumour containing coagulable lymph, evidently meaning fluid; and regards it as differing from the hydatid in size only, and from lymphatic (serous) tumours, by the possession of a mem- branous covering, or proper cyst. It is more expedient to apply it to all encysted tumours not manifestly hydatoid, which contain serous, sero-purulent, or viscid glairy fluid, or even reddish serum, in whatever situation they are found. The best example of this tumour is the cyst or cysts often found in the female ovary, in which they vary in size, and in the colour and consistence of their contents, from mere serum, with more or less albumen, to reddish, bloody, or even tar-like fluid. They occur in the brain, e. g. its hemi- sphere,* and in the pineal gland. The cases delineated by Hooper as vesicles and encysted tumour, are evidently of this description. Plenck admits the serous hygroma in the cellular membrane. y. Ileematovia. A cyst secreting, or containing a bloody fluid. Severinus, Ingrassias, and more recently Monteggia, John Peter Frank, Scarpa, and Montini, mention examples of globular or spheroidal tumours containing blood more or less fluid within a membranous sac or covering. Under the name of bloody abscess, indeed, Severinusf assembles aneurisms, as well as the blood-cyst. * The Morbid Anatomy of the Human Brain. By Robert Hooper, M.D. Plate XIII. XII. Fig. 8. and XIV. f Marci Aurelii Severini apud Neapolitanos Medici ac Philosophii Rcgii, de Ab- scessuum Recondita Natura, Libri viii. Lugduni Batavorum, 1724. Lib. iv. cap. vii.