SUPPURATION OF THE KIDNEY CHONDROSIS. 943 1 have represented suppuration of the kidney to commence, in or- dinary circumstances, in the interior of the calyces and pelvis, and rather to produce a sort of expansion and distension of the gland than an actual purulent destruction, it is, nevertheless, necessary to say, that purulent destruction does take place in the substance of the kidney. Of this I have seen several instances. In these cases, the whole kidney was completely converted into a quantity of thick purulent matter, partly like thin putty, partly more fluid, all of which was contained within the renal capsule, like atheromatous matter in a hag or cyst. In all the cases of this disorder, excepting one, the patients pre- sented no evident or prominent symptoms which could lead to the suspicion that the kidney was in a state of inflammatory disease. In one case, death took place after an obscure illness of a few days. In the case which I have mentioned as an exception, the patient was hectic, and had uneasiness in the bladder and along the ureters; hut, as it was plain that the lungs were tuberculated and presented open vomicae, the hectic symptoms were justly ascribed to the pre- sence of the pulmonary disorganization. If we say that this lesion is of strumous origin, we merely give another answer, without com- ing more closely to the explanation. It seems as if the whole re- nal tissue, cortical and tubular, were liquefied or dissolved in pu- rulent matter. ^ b. Small patches of purulent matter are occasionally observed in the cortical or in the tubular part of the kidney, without appa- rent connection with inflammation of the calyces. These I think must be admitted to be of strumous origin. In one instance in wh,ch I witnessed this state of the kidneys, it took place in the tody Of a sickly strumous boy of fifteen years, who died of lobular pneumonia; and it is usually seen in young subjects. e. In some instances of inflamed vein, purulent matter has been found in the substance of the kidney. This lias been regarded as metastatic; but it is most correct to look on it as tnnsnA i e the vein Mamed to this in common with other internal orglns™"1 ton here, that the ureters and l Pr°P.er t0 men' of chronic inflammation, inducing great thto “ p"t‘cular kind of the mucous membrane, with roughni fi"'"8 1"dllrati°" .1. -—_ *•«. .as-