141 SYSTEM OF CAPILLARY VESSELS, &C. It is evident, that, in the phenomena now ascribed to congestion, many would be disposed to see the early stage of inflammation. This, however, Kaltenbrunner distinguishes as a process of greater intensity, with more varied phenomena, and more complex, and pre- senting greater modifications. The difference, nevertheless, seems more in degree and stage than in any other circumstance, and in the effects which it is liable to produce on the tissues which it af- fects. Inflammation like congestion has a period of increase, of esta- blishment, and one of decline, often with destructive effects. In the period of increase, the phenomena agree in general with those of congestion. The movement of the blood is quickened ; the vessels are distended; the blood is altered. After this, however, other changes are observed. The blood begins to move less quickly in some capillary vessels, and at length stops completely. Thus are formed in the system of diseased vessels stases, statical or stag- nating points, which increasing occupy a large space round the part where the cause of inflammation is seated. (An eschar pro- duced by the hot iron.) At the circumference of these statical points the circulation proceeds rapidly. Thus inflammation is es- tablished. The same phenomena appear on the application of muriate of soda, alcohol, sal-ammoniac, or corrosive sublimate. The stases are formed in the following manner. At the com- mencement of inflammation the blood traverses all the vessels with great velocity. Soon, however, its movement becomes slower at first in certain capillaries, situate on the central point of inflamma- tory action. Then the circulation is disturbed ; its motion becomes unsteady; the blood seems to oscillate irregularly in the canals; lastly, its movement is entirely stopped; and the blood stagnates in different points. These stagnating points progressively increase, and affect even the smaller veins; but they rarely take place in the arteries. The blood never stagnates in the canals so as to fill them entirely. It is accumulated in certain points so as to leave void part of the canals. Those in which the blood stagnates are relaxed. The stagnating points are so much more diffused and dispersed, and occupy a space more extensive, as the inflammation is more severe and has been of longer duration. Their presence is evinced by the redness of the part on which they are situate, which is more intense on the initial point than on the circumference. The in-