MORBID STATES OF THE HEART PARTIAL ANEURISM. 1059 time without presenting any of the symptoms of the inflammatory or ulcerative process. Thus, in the well-known case of Talma, there was no indication of previous inflammation or ulceration, and after it had taken place, and lasted for at least three years, it did not indicate its presence by any very marked symptom of any kind, and assuredly by none indicating the presence of inflammatory action, either acute or chronic. In almost all the other cases also no con- spicuous or urgent symptoms took place to denote the exact date of the commencement of the lesion, which has, in most instances, been discovered unexpectedly in examining the heart after death. It must be allowed, nevertheless, that the inflammatory process, without proceeding to ulceration, as Bouillaud requires, may have a tendency to produce this lesion, by the change which it effects on the tissues, in which it is seated. It is one of the most con- stant, perhaps, of the properties of this process, to impair or destroy the tenacity, elasticity, cohesion, and resisting power of the animal tissues, and in none more decidedly than in the muscular. All textures after inflammation are rendered more fragile and more lacerable. This is particularly the case with the arterial tunics, with tendons, with cartilages, and with the bones, and above all, with the muscular tissue, which becomes less distensible, less con- tractile, and more rigid than before. It is possible that some new deposit may have been formed in it. But even this does not seem necessary; aud the simple pre-existence of the inflammatory con- gestion appears to be all that is requisite to induce this sort of lacerability. It is not improbable that these facts and considerations appear- ed so conclusive to M. Cruveilhier, that, in proposing another cir- cumstance as a preliminary or predisposing cause of false consecu- tive aneurism, he found it difficult, if not impracticable, to exclude the influence of the inflammatory process. From various pheno- mena presented by the tumours and cysts in this lesion, but espe- cially from the phenomena presented by the preparation described in Case 17 in the memoir by myself, he infers that, in every instance of false consecutive or partial aneurism of the heart, one of two processes is in operation ; one the inflammatory action, and the other the fibrous transformation of the muscular tissue of the heart. To the latter, however, which he believes to be often primary or idio- pathic, and not accompanied by inflammation, he assigns the prin- cipal place. Numerous facts, he informs us, lead him to conclude