WHITE FIBROUS SYSTEM. 423 whole ligament, unless in cases of anchylosis and stiff joint, in which it is rather a sort of cartilaginous rigidity and induration than actual conversion into bone. The former appears to be the origin of the bony nodules or sesamoid bones occasionally found in the substance of the funicular ligaments. In the irregular filaments, especially the sacro-ischiatic, it is not unusual to find ossification in aged subjects. That the periosteum may be converted into bone is a point which has been alternately admitted and denied during a whole century. While the numerous experiments of Du Hamel* * * § and Trojaf tend to establish it in the affirmative, it is rendered very doubtful by the facts and arguments of Leveille and Richerand. From the expe- riments of the former authors it results that the periosteum becomes thick, highly vascular, very firm, and eventually acquires a bony hardness in its inner layer under either of the following circum- stances ;—1st, when it is detached from the bone ; 2d, after frac- tures during the process of reunion; and 3dly, when the marrow or its membrane is destroyed. That in the two former instances the inner layers of the periosteum truly undergo conversion into bone, may be regarded as established, not only by the experiments of Du ITamel and Troja, but by those of Dupuytren,i Cruveil- hier,§ Breschet,|| and Villerme,^ and especially by the phenomena of reunion after fractures by gunshot wounds. The third case, that of injury of the marrow and its vessels, is perhaps more ambi- guous. It appears, nevertheless, from the experiments of M. Cru- veilhier, that only when the medullary membrane is destroyed, with the permanent continuance of a foreign body in the canal, ossification at the surface of the bone takes place at the expense not only of the periosteum, but even of the muscles. The condi- tion necessary for the ossification of the periosteum after injury ap- pears to be, that the concomitant inflammation produces albuminous effusion only; for when the membrane is in contact with purulent matter, effusion of albuminous or coagulable fluid is precluded; and in this sense only, perhaps, are the inferences of Leveille to be admitted. * Mem. ile l’Acad. des Sciences, 1741, &c. ■f Mem. de la Societe Roy. de Med. 1776. X Journal Univers. des Sci. Med. T. xx. p. 131. § Essai sur l’Anatomie Pathologiquc, Tome ii. p. 25, &c. Paris, 1616. || Quelques Itecherch. Hist, et Exper. sur le Cal. Paris, 1619. ^ Quart. Journ of Foreign Medicine, No. ii. London, 1619.