76 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. bular cysts, sometimes solitary, more frequently associated or con- gregated with membranous coverings, thin, opaque, and almost translucent. In some instances they give rise to suppuration, and by this means come to the surface. If they do not, they seem to cause inconvenience by their size, number, and situation. One incision made through the skin often allows the escape of a great number, leaving an extensive cavity in the adipose and cellular membrane. 9. Induration. I think it probable that the peculiar affection which takes place in the bodies of infants described at p. 43 in chapter iii. should be referred to this tissue. But after this mention of the sub- ject, I think it unnecessary to alter the arrangement. CHAPTER V. artery, arterial tissue, (Arteria,— Tissu arteriel.) Section I. The structure of the arteries has been so much the subject of examination at all periods of the history of anatomy, that to men- tion the authors by whom it has been described would be much the same as to enumerate all the anatomists who have ever written. To omit Galen, and some of those who wrote shortly after the re- vival of literature, descriptions of the structure of arteries have been given with different degrees of minuteness and accuracy by Willis, Vieussens, Verheyen, Lancisi, Bidloo, the first Monro, Morgagni, Ludwig, Haller, De La Sone, Bichat, Gordon, Magen- die, and by Mondini. Yet the descriptions given by these observ- ers are so discordant, that Ludwig complains of the difficulty of re- conciling them, and Haller evidently felt it; and with the excep- tion of those given by the four last authors, they do not accord with the characters which this substance actually presents. The following account is derived principally from repeated ex- amination of the arteries of the human subject, occasionally com- pared with those of the more familiar domestic animals. Every arterial tube greater than one line in diameter is visibly composed of one adventitious and two essential substances. The