BONE. 455 medullary canal contains purulent matter; on the removal of which the cancelli are observed also to be white and rough, while a little farther away from the fragments the medullary web is vascular, swelled, and discharging purulent matter. In general, beyond the white portion of bone, a rough depressed line is observed between the living and dead parts, the former having in general the pei i- osteum attached, and which is thickened, vascular, and evidently in a state of inflammation. The acute form of the disease is greatly more violent in pheno- mena and more rapid in progress. All at once a limb or a por- tion of it, for instance the leg or thigh, is attacked with general swelling, diffused over the whole limb, great and intense pain both superficial and deep, while the surface is hot and tense, of a dull red colour, or sometimes very faintly red; and the patient, be- sides a feeling of great weight in the limb, is entirely deprived of all powers of moving it. The constitutional disorder is great. Generally there are rigors succeeded by heats; the pulse is quick, full, and strong; pain is felt in the head; the tongue is furred and dry; the patient distressed with thirst, restlessness, and anxiety, and is in certain cases delirious; the complexion is brownish-red as in phlebitis; the eyes are glaring; and the expression is a mix- ture of wildness and great suffering. This general disorder is in certain cases so intense, and causes so great a shock to the system, that the patient expires in the course of three or four days; and before the local disorder has lasted sufficiently long to produce suppuration. If the patient, however, survive this period, the swelling invari- ably proceeds, until suppuration takes place in one or more parts. In the course of one or two days more, matter points in one, two, or three places simultaneously or successively; and when this is allowed to find issue either by art or spontaneously, it is ascertained that inflammation has existed over the whole bone and the soft co- verings, and that this has proceeded most extensively to suppura tion. The skin and adipose membrane are by this detached from the fascia; the fascia are detached from the muscles; the muscles from each other ; and the whole soft parts are more or less detach- ed from the periosteum, which, again, is either shreddy and killed, or is detached in parts from the subjacent bone, which is in these points rough, white, and evidently either deprived of vitality or very much injured in texture. When the bone is cut open longi-