890 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. terms it tuberculated liver; many physicians, both in this country and abroad, term it granulated liver; and Laennec applied to it the name of kirrhosis, or yellow degeneration of the liver, from the colour which the liver so changed often presents. Besides the forms now described, the disease in certain instances appears in the form of yellow matter dispersed through the sub- stance of the liver like peas; or presents an appearance similar to the vitellarium of the common fowl. In some instances small empty cavities are found in the interior of the granulated liver; and in others are small cavities containing a greenish jelly-like liquid of little consistence. This, which appears to have been observed by Portal, is made the ground of another stage of the disease more advanced than the one last men- tioned. The distinction I think entirely useless, as the state men- tioned is found, though not very often, in the state already describ- ed as the third stage. Laennec, who considered this yellow matter a new formation, characteristic of the lesion, admitted three forms of kirrhosis ; one in masses, a second in patches, and a third in cysts. This idea of the separate new morbid formation has not been generally recog- nized ; and it is probable that these distinctions, which apply rather to the external form than the essential character of the lesion, are fanciful. A liver in the exquisite and perfect form of granulation presents in its substance appearances so characteristic, that, though not easily described, they have attracted general attention. The orange-coloured matter has been sometimes described as like sole- leather, when attempted to be cut by the knife ; and in other in- stances the section has been compared to impure bees wax. Both of these statements are either inaccurate or exaggerations. The granulated liver is certainly not so tough and inflexible as sole lea- ther ; neither does it present the hard yet friable property of yel- low bees wax. It resembles a solid, close, dense, fleshy mass, con- sisting apparently of numerous small bodies irregularly aggregated together, which, when closely inspected, are of an orange or orange- brown colour. This disease tends certainly and invariably to the formation of incurable abdominal dropsy. At first the liver is larger than usual; but afterwards it returns to its normal size, though not to the normal shape, or it becomes smaller and shrunk, as already de-