GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 804 confidence. The fact that they are placed among the serpentine re- nal ducts, and that they are furnished with a peculiar arrangement of capillary arteries, may favour the inference that they are in some way connected with the secretion of urine. If the fact contended for by Mr Bowman, that the Malpighian bodies are connected with the serpentine ducts, were established, this inference would be rendered almost certain. This communication, however, is denied by Muller and others; and Muller accordingly maintains that the Malpighian bodies have no concern in the secretion of urine. Mr Bowman, on the other hand, who thinks he has shown that each Malpighian body is situate at the remote or superior extremity of a uriniferous tube, and that the tufts of vessels are a distinct system of capillaries inserted into the interior of the tube, infers that, as the arrangement of the vessels in the Malpighian tufts is evidently de- signed to retard the motion of blood through them, the insertion of the tuft in the extremity of the tube indicates that this retardation is connected with the secreting process. He concludes, therefore, that it is highly probable that the use of the Malpighian tufts is to affuse water abundantly and uniformly over the urine as it is se- creted, so as to ensure the perfect solution of all its constituents. Along with this, he thinks that these bodies, by contributing to re- move aqueous matter from the blood, act as a self-adjusting valve or sluice to the circulation. The use of the Malpighian bodies, in short, according to Mr Bowman, is to separate from the blood the watery portion, according to the necessities of the system. I have only to add, in order to complete the description of the renal serpentine ducts, that while they advance through the cortical portion of the kidney to its periphery, they are not always, properly speaking, serpentine. In the horse, for instance, in which they are so large that they may be perceived by the eye, at least after injection, without the microscope, they do not run in the serpentine and tortuous course, which they observe in man and most other animals. They are con- tinued from the straight ducts, very slightly bending or undulating, but still almost straight, for at least one inch or one inch and a- half. As they approach the surface of the cortical portion, these undulating flexures increase, and at the very surface they are com- pletely converted into serpentine or tortuous tubes. In the squirrel also, the serpentine ducts are large, and united by little cellular tissue. In that animal they are seen without in-