GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 462 mountable than those belonging to the hypothesis of Weidmann. It is impossible here to consider all the facts adduced and the whole train of the reasoning employed by the professor of Pavia. It is sufficient to observe, that, independent of the violent and gratuitous nature of the assumption of the expanding faculty, which he as- cribes to bone, there is some inconsistency in saying, that the old cortex is expanded, and becoming spongy, and advancing inwards, forms medullary membrane, and swelling outwardly increases the walls of the bony tube; and that thus the old bone is inclosed within a sheath. In this representation the old bone is made at once to inclose and to be inclosed. Another objection is still found in the following fact. In all the instances in which considerable or large sequestra have come away, how does it happen that these sequestra resemble so closely the shafts or portions of the shafts of old bones as they do ? Except- ing in the circumstance of their broken, irregular, ulcerated ex- tremities, and the carious and worm-eaten appearance of the surface, they present all the characters of an old or dead portion of a cy- lindrical bone. It is to be observed, that from the moment the bone becomes dead from whatever cause, whether external injury or in- flammation of its medullary membrane, instead of being capable either of undergoing this expanding process, or in any way contri- buting to the formation of new bony substance, it is a lifeless, inert mass, and acts as a mechanical irritant, exciting aud main- taining, for the purpose of its own expulsion, an excessive suppu- rative inflammation, which instead of promoting and facilitating the formation of new bone, is the main cause above all others, which retards, impedes, and renders impossible the necessary secretion for that purpose. It is a well-established fact, that as long as the old bone or any of its fragments are in the affected limb, the depo- sition of new bone is so much retarded and often rendered im- practicable. Conversely, it is only when these sources of irritation and wasting suppuration are withdrawn, that new bone begins and proceeds to be regularly and steadily deposited. The irritative actions are excessive, and prevent the effusion of lymph and liquid callus and their consolidation. A third argument, which may be advanced against the doctrine of Scarpa, is the following. In all the cases of nekrosis with reproduction, the newly formed bony mass appears to be so cer- tainly the result of the operations of tissues exterior to the bone, that it is impossible to understand, how the old bone can have any