403 MUSCULAR TISSUE. + Medico-Cliirurgical Transaction, Vol. VII. p. 323. Dr Davis.* The possibility of the fact, nevertheless, he admits on the evidence of the case of Meckel, f Stronger proof he might have found in a case by Mr Stanley, in which the cut substance of the heart was exceedingly dark-coloured from injection of the capil- laries; the fibres were soft, loose, easily separable, and compres- sible between the fingers ; while sections of each ventricle exhibited numerous small distinct collections of dark-coloured purulent matter among the muscular fasciculi,—some deep, approaching the cavity of the ventricle, others superficial, raising the pericardium. The muscular substance of the auricles was softened and loaded with blood ; but without purulent deposits.]; In this case, which took place in a boy of 14, the chief symptoms I were those of intense inflammatory fever, with great heat, deli- rium, and feverishness, and some frontal headach. On one day the patient complained of pain in the thigh and knee; but at no time in the whole course of the symptoms, which lasted only four days, did he give any indications of pain within the chest. Death was preceded by difficult breathing. The case, indeed, was one of great acuteness and rapidity in progress. It cannot be denied that in this case the muscular tissue of the organ exhibited marks of inflammation ; but the purulent deposits might be seated in the intermuscular filamentous tissue, which, though delicate, is abundant. In 1828, Dr P. M. Latham, after remarking the rarity of finding purulent matter as a proof or effect of inflammation of the substance of the heart, added that, nevertheless, he had met with two examples of this lesion. In one instance the whole heart was deeply tinged with dark-coloured blood, and its substance was softened; and upon section of both ventricles, innumerable small drops of purulent matter oozed from various parts among the muscular fibres. This was the result of a most rapid and acute inflammation, which ter- minated in death, after an dlness of only two days5 duration. In another instance, after death, which terminated an illness of long duration, and characterized by symptoms referable to the heart, a distinct abscess was found in the substance of the left ventricle,’ closed externally by a portion of adherent pericardium, and con- I 1808InqUiry int° the Sympt0niB’ &c- * Carditis. By .T. Ford Davis, M. D. Bath, t Memoires de I’Academie de Berlin.