GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 210 Schreger, in different experiments, observed the first of these qua- lities in consequence of the application not only of acids, butter of antimony, and alcohol, but even of hot water and cold air. Simi- lar contractions and relaxations have been induced by mechanical irritation.* Such phenomena are observed not only during life, but even after death; and if we add to this, that the thoracic duct is often after death large and flaccid, though empty, but in the liv- ing body is almost always contracted and scarcely visible, and that a portion of it included between two ligatures and punctured, quickly expels its contents, it may be inferred, according to Tiede- mann and Beclard, that the lymphatic tissue possesses a considerable degree of this vital or organic property. Section II. The lymphatic vessels have been supposed to perform an import- ant part in the formation of the diseases incident to the animal body. In addition to the ordinary causes of disease which affect all organic substances, the several derangements of property or function to which they are liable have been supposed to exert a powerful influence on other tissues and organs, and on their func- tions. On this principle Hewson, Cruikshank, Thomas White, Nudow, Isenflamm, Johnstone, and Maanen, have ascribed to dif- ferent forms and degrees of disorder of the lymphatic system a very large proportion of the diseases incident to the human body. All of these authors, nevertheless, have been exceeded by Soemmering, and more recently by Alard, both of whom represent the lym- phatics as mainly concerned in every morbid state of the human body. The former has delineated an extensive picture of diseases, in the production of which the lymphatics are believed to be more or less concerned. Besides immediate morbid states of the lym- phatics themselves, he enumerates upwards of sixty diseases and morbid states of the human body, in which, according to one or another pathologist, the lymphatics have an influence, direct or indirect, immediate or remote.f The latter reasons most strenu- ously for the universal influence of the lymphatic system in every disease almost of the animal frame. * Schreger de Irritabilitate Vas. Lymph. Lips. 1789. f S. Thomte Soemmering de Morbis Vasorum Absorbentium Corporis Humnni sire Dissertationis qua; proemium retulit Societatis Rheno-Trajectime, anno 1794, Pars Pathologica. Trajccti ad Moenum, 1795. 8vo.