704 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Genuine purulent fluid, as it is represented by pathological au- thors,—a white, or cream-coloured, opaque, and homogeneous fluid, —is another product of inflammation of serous membranes. Though always combined with more or less albuminous exudation, which is found in loose irregular patches on the membrane, and in the form of shreds and flakes in the fluid, it is more uniform in composition than the puriform, being desti tute of the granular matter, and not separating, when allowed to rest, into thin and solid matter. It oc- curs in chronic pleurisy, {empyema,) in pericardial inflammation as an effect of the acute, and in peritonitis, acute, subacute, and chro- nic, especially the puerperal. It was at one time believed that genuine purulent matter could not be formed in these membranes, unless as an effect of'the pre- liminary process of ulceration. Instances of purulent collections in the chest without ulceration of the pleura, and of purulent matter in the abdomen without breach in the peritonaeum, might have led pathological writers to the inference, that suppuration may occur in a serous membrane without ulceration, and that secretion of puru- lent matter is one of the effects of simple inflammation of serous tissue. The truth of this fact, however, appears not to have been established before the time of William and John Hunter, the last of whom notices it as a point not previously ascertained. Speak- ing of the transition or gradual change from coagulable lymph to purulent fluid, he infers u that suppuration takes place in serous surfaces without a breach of solids or dissolution of parts,” men- tions it as a circumstance “ not commonly allowed,” and considers this suppuration as the effect of a more advanced stage of the pro- cess than that which gives rise to effusion of lymph, and union by adhesion. Of this fact, he informs us, he first became aware in 1749 and 1750, when, in the inspection of a young subject, the left side of the chest was found to contain a considerable quantity of purulent matter without breach of the pleura or surface of the lungs; and, at the same time, it was regarded by Dr Hunter and Mr Samuel Sharpe as a new fact.* It has since been often ob- served both in the pleura and peritonaeum; and as such is men- tioned by William Hunter,f Baillie, Black, and Willan. It is, .in truth, seen almost daily by those conversant in morbid anatomy. * Treatise on Inflammation, &c. p. 379. Note. + “ Another kind of pus is that which is formed without any apparent bieac i dissolution of the solids, and therefore is only a sort of inspissated scrum, oi an in