831 INFLAMMATION OF THE PANCTtEAS. is no doubt that, from various causes, most frequently inflammatory thickening, the duct is narrowed, and its outlet is either obstructed or temporarily obliterated. Even inflammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth, by causing obliteration of the outlets of the duct, may be followed by such accumulation. In other in- stances, again, the presence of a calculus within any of the ducts has the same effect. Ranula is said to appear in the form of a tumour, in some de- gree transparent, soft, and fluctuating, and in some instances in the form of one quite hard and firm. At first small, it gradually en- larges, projecting into the mouth, and interfering much with mas- tication, speech, and even deglutition. It is even said that the effect on speech is so considerable, as to make the voice of the pa- tient resemble the croaking of frogs, and that from this circum- fancy6 reCeiyeS its narae* This is probably an idle Section III. DISEASES OF THE PANCREAS. The diseases of the pancreas may be enumerated in the follow- Ta!io°n 2 -1' nflanlmat.!on a"d ita effects, adhesion, and suppu- rabon 2 simple induration; 3. chronic induration ; 4. hynertro- pby; 5. softenings 6. atrophy; 7. concretions in the ducts or duct; 8. chrome ulceration ; and 9. the heterologous deposits. § I. INFLAMMATION OF THE SWEATBREAD OR PANCREAS. PANCREATIA, PANCREATITIS. That the pancreas is liable to inflammation has been admits by most morbid anatomists; but it has been also ascertained ib t it ,s very difficult, if not impracticable, to recognize the brf ^ state of the gland by symptoms during life Ti- inflamed that he found it twice in a state of inflammation tinT'3"' J?lleved more vascular than usual; and Wedekind and n . ’ ratlJer and his time mentioned the circumstance as taking I S1"ce Portal slates in general terms that wl, S/ occas>onally. than natural notin,y at ih“ substance; and that it had been found u- ’ • interl0»‘ bad undergone an attack of continued fev^^TCi^!