GLANDULAR TISSUE—VARIETIES IN SECRETING TUBES. 773 in immediate contact with the acini, has been inferred by Gruit- huisen, on the faith of microscopical observations on the liver of the frog. This inference Muller thinks unfounded. He allows that at first on investigating the development of the liver and kid- neys in the embryo, such appears to be the fact. The blood-in- terstices of the canals appear without certain trace of parietes of vessels; and the same appearance is presented by the microscopical examination of the liver in live larvae of Tritons. But Muller is satisfied from microscopical observations on the kidneys of adults, both alter injection and recent, that vestiges of the most minute blood-vessels are formed in the tissue which unites the uriniferous canals. Muller allows, nevertheless, that at first new currents, without proper walls, are formed in an amorphous web; but imme- diately walls, however thin, as more fixed boundaries to these cur- rents, are formed by increased thickness of the substance round the currents. XVII. The development of the glands in the embryos of the higher animals takes place in the same manner as the glands in the sei ies ot animals generally. That is the most complex glands in the embryo of the higher animals consist at first of excretory ducts alone, similar to the secreting vessels of the lower animals. XVIII. The intimate structure of the glands presents very many vaiieties, chiefly with the object ol increasing the extent of secret- ing sui face. 1 et no species of structure is peculiar to any indivi- dual gland. In the most different glands the structure may be the same, as in the cortical substance of the kidney, and in the testicle. Conversely the same gland presents a different structure in differ- ent animals. For instance the lacrymal gland in the tortoise con- sists of fasciculated utricuh, forming a cortex or rind around the excretory ducts. In birds the same gland is cellulated; in the mammalia it consists of pedunculated vesicles, with ducts appended m tb. inrin The minute structure 0f the liver and testicles in like manner presents great variations. The kidneys alone, m all classes, observe one common model of formation from urmorm canals unbranched, either straight or tortuous, though the dSidi the canals undergo the greatest diversity in JLIX; V10 structure of glands increases in complication in the al ° n",mals ul’ t0 nian ; yet tins increase in complication is not 1)8 m the same ratio. The rule seems to be that in every class