918 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. previous observers, had not been accurately distinguished or care- fully described. Though the morbid condition connected with the presence of this parasite was not confined to the liver, and affected not merely the right lobe of that organ, but the omentum, part of the pancreas and spleen, part of the intestinal canal, and the sur- face of the peritoneum in general, yet it may be well to notice shortly the characters of the animal. . In the case given by Dr Gairdner, the hydatids consisted of glo- bular or rounded bodies aggregated in masses or groups, not un- like the egg-bed of the common fowl. Each hydatid consisted of gelatinous matter contained within striae or fibres; and each had an external membrane provided with stomata, or orifices which lead into tubuli. Each group consisted of many hydatids attached or covered by one common membrane, which further dipped between them. This membrane presented numerous disks varying in size, and round which the orifices or stomata were arranged. This it has been proposed to denominate, from the circumstance now spe- cified, Dishostoma acephalocystis. In the case which occurred to Mr Lee, the hydatid had a gela- tinous body like the last noticed, and membranous investments; but the animal itself, which varied in size from a millet seed to the bulk of an orange. This animal is without aperture or apparent organ of nutrition; and hence it has been proposed to term it Astoma acephalocystis. Those under the size of a filbert were globular. As soon as they advance beyond this size, they assume on the surface a nodu- lated appearance, which increases with the size of the animal, and which is owing to the simultaneous growth and enlargement of the young cysts contained within it. The Astoma acephalocystis forms a sort of intermediate link be- tween the common acephalocyst (Acephalocystis simplex) and the Dishostoma acephalocystis. * Some observers have called in question the independent animal existence of these two species of parasite, as others have doubted that of the common acephalocyst. So far as it is possible to form an inference from appearance and characters, they seem entitled to be regarded as animals, though of a low and imperfect type; and it seems most convenient to notice them in this place. * Cases and Observations illustrating the History of two kinds of Hydatids, hitherto undescribed. By John Gairdner, M. D. and Thomas M. Lee. Edin. Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. lxi. p. 269. Edinburgh, 1844.