285 BRAIN. able effects to which they give rise. They are said in general to be connected with the strumous diathesis; and they are most com- monly found in subjects who present the usual marks of this dia- thesis. This, however, is only expressing, in different terms, an obscure fact, the real cause of which is quite unknown. T he en- cysted abscess, especially that such as is delineated by Dr Hooper, is of the kind called by old pathologists abscess by congestion, or cold abscess. One form of suppuration of the brain I think there is strong rea- son to believe depends on the presence of previous disease, inflamma- tory, suppurative, or gangrenous, in the lungs, and probably in other organs. This is when suppuration takes place in the brain, either in one abscess, or diffusely, or in the sinuses of the brain after sup- puration or gangrene of the lungs. This connection was observed in the two following cases. In the summer of 1836, I was requested to see a child of about two years, labouring under apparent affection of the brain. Symp- toms of this I indeed observed in the heat of the head, the restless- ness, the spasmodic movements of the eyes, a little enlargement of the head, constant tossing backwards and to each side, the uneasi- ness of the stomach, and the insensible state of the intestinal tube. But besides these symptoms, the child was greatly emaciated, coughed much, and occasionally expectorated. There was much general feverishness. On examining the chest, I found consider- able cavernous destruction of the upper lobe of the right lung, with some flattening and depression of the ribs. Two days afterwards, death took place. I found the upper lobe and part of the middle lobe of the right lung hollowed into a rugged cavernous abscess, with irregular cavities, and walls covered with a little purulent matter, emitting an offensive odour. In the brain the convolutions were much flattened, indeed their eminences were almost effaced ; a little turbid sero-purulent fluid was contained within the ventricles ; the longitudinal sinus, the torcular, the lateral sinuses, and the small sinuses at the base were filled with blood half-coagulated, and con- taining lymph and purulent matter; and even the large veins of the pia mater opening into these sinuses contained half-clotted blood and purulent matter. It appears to me nearly certain, that the lymph and purulent matter were conveyed by the veins of the lungs into the circulation, and thence into the venous canals of the brain.