TRACHEOBRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 591 slight wheezing and faint raucous rattles were heard immediately below the right collar hone and through the right scapula; and when the patient coughed, the expiration sound came against the ear at times faintly, at other times with unusual force, lhe child complained of pain in the right mammary region; stretching sometimes to the shoulder. The pulse was never under 120 ; the child perspired much during the night, and in the morning violent and alarming fits of coughing came on and continued long. On the left side of the chest no morbid sounds were recognized. The motions of the chest were rapid and frequent; but air seemed to enter and quit the bronchial tubes of the left side without much impediment, excepting what arose from the rapid motion of that side, and of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. Leeches were applied over the right side of the chest seveial times, according to the strength of the patient, the urgency of the symptoms, and the effects of the discharge. Antimonial medicines had been given; and ipecacuanha wine, with occasional doses of tincture of hyoscyamus were tried. The bowels were kept open by means of calomel and rhubarb, or castor oil; and afterwards small doses of the gray powder, (hydrargyrus cum creta) were given. Leeches were applied often, as they seemed to give most relief; and once or twice the surface of the right side of the chest was blistered. At length after treatment of this kind for the space of between five and six weeks, the cough became less urgent and frequent; the amount of expectorated mucus was diminished ; the pulse be- came less frequent; the night sweats diminished and better sleep was obtained; and appetite returning, the child took food with some relish. The breathing was reduced to between 24 and 26 in the minute; but there was still much dulness over the whole right mammary region, and little motion of that side of the chest was observed, while the beats of the heart were heard as clearly and distinctly as before. Sufficient amendment was produced, however, and sufficient strength was recovered to justify the cessation of medical treatment, and to enable the patient to proceed to a country situation in July 1843. Here he remained for six weeks, and improved much in health and strength. The cough had left him ; the expectoration had ceased; and he had recovered his wonted looks. In this state he remained the early part of the winter of 1843-4. As the season