866 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. trollable hemorrhage from the mucous surface of the intestinal canal. This is the early stage of that change, which is afterwards to be described as kirrhosis. This disease may succeed the acute form, or may be developed slowly and insensibly after ague, remittent fever, or in the persons of those accustomed to the use of spirituous liquors. It is certainly a common disease in tropical climates, but is by no means unknown in more temperate latitudes. It is much seldomer found in females than in males. ยง 2. Anatomico-pathological causes of suppuration and ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. INFLUENCE OF SUPPURATIVE DISEASE IN OTHER TISSUES. INFLUENCE OF PHLEBITIS. Though tile inquiry into the circumstances acting as precedents or antegre- dients, and esteemed causes of suppuration of the liver, involves the consideration of causes of inflammation in general, yet the formation of purulent collections within the substance of the liver, is attended by circumstances so peculiar, that, in order to render the pathological history of these collections complete, it is necessary to consider these circumstances a little in detail. Abscess of the liver, indeed, is a lesion so frequent, and in a certain number of cases takes place so steadily and regularly, yet so insidiously, and often in connection with injuries of the head, that the subject is en- titled to particular consideration. The circumstances usually observed to precede suppurative inflammation of the liver are; 1st, external violence or injury; 2d, internal irritation, as from the presence of hones, concretions, or other objects which may irritate the gland ; 3d, suppurative inflammation of bones, especially of their veins; 4th, inflammation of a vein or veins, whether purulent or lymphy ; 5th, the presence of ulcers in the intestinal or colic mucous membrane, or ulcers in the stomach, duodenum, gall-bladder, or gall-ducts, or ulcers or abscesses in the pancreas; 6th, previous congestive states of the liver ensuing on the operation of excessive solar or atmospherical heat; and 7th, the operation of the poison or miasma producing intermittent and remittent fever. Of all these causes, though it be difficult to appreciate the com- parative influence of each, yet little doubt can be entertained that the most common and the most potential are venous inflammation, or the presence of purulent matter in certain veins, and ulceration of the intestines, either small or great. !. External violence is rarely the cause of hepatic abscess.