STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—KIDNEYS. 781 pentahedral. Their colour is yellowish. They contain a quantity of line punctuated corpuscula, which appear to be seated on their walls, and frequently in man and mammiferous animals, small and large fat globules, which are never seen in perfectly sound livers. Not unfrequently there are small cells which inclose the narrow nucleus and large cells with two nuclei; and some there are, the cavities of which communicate with each other, or between which ■ certainly no partition is visible. Iiallmann found cells without nuclei; that is, non-nuclcated cells. Besides these cells, we see only fat in the intervals of the lobules, fibres in the walls of the strong vessels and biliferous ducts, and cylindrical epithelial cells detached from the last. Henle could not observe on the surface of the lobes or between them any peculiar ligamentous tissue ; and Vogel says that it appears doubtful.* These cells, there is every reason to believe, perform an import- J ant part in the formation of bile. § IV. THE KIDNEYS. I he kidneys and testes are referred by Henle to the head of Re- ticulated or Net-like glands. The substance of the kidneys in fishes consists of long canals of equal diameter, which arise from branches of the ureter, or pa- i rallely in bundles from the lateral ureter, and proceed sometimes straight, sometimes in a sinuous course variously contorted, without being divided into branches, which are not attenuated towards the extremities, but terminate uniformly in short ends. In reptiles, the vesiculce or bladders of the secreting apparatus, or ends of the uriniferous ducts, arise before the ureter itself is dis- tinctly seen. This seems to show that the development of the kid- neys begins from the peripheral vesicles. The stalks of these ve- sicles are prolonged daily, by which the tubules terminated by ve- sicular rounded apices arise, while the vesiculce themselves are more and more attenuated, until the uriniferous ducts observe the same diameter to their shut end. In short, in this order of animals, the substance of the kidneys consists of equal cylindrical tubules rising rom the ureter and ascending to the outer margin of the kidney, where they terminate in short extremities. n'ltonlle' von t'er Mischungs-und Formbestandstheilen des Feinercn R6n iK6rperS” V”n J; Henle- Leipzig, 1841. 8vo. See also Ueber der seite r,2l aUderLeber' Von C- Krause in Hanover. Muller’s Archiv, 1845. No. V.