BRAIN. 245 But the attention of the demonstrator is to be directed to that part of the convoluted surface which covers the anterior end and outer margin of the cerebral limb, and which has been raised on the scalpel-handle. When gently everted, it is found to present the thin white body named the tape or fringe (tcenia) of the hippo- campus ; and if the portion of convoluted brain most anterior or next to the curvilinear hollow be raised and everted in the same manner, the anterior end of this object termed the foot (pes hippo- campi) will come into view. If this operation be properly per- formed, no part will be torn, broken, or displaced; the objects ex- hibited are free surfaces, not adhering to each other but only m apposition. The white plate or tape of the hippocampus forms, in the natural position of the organ, the outer and lower border of the opening, while the limb of the brain, and after that the outer and lower surface of the optic chamber, forms its inner border. To obtain an idea yet more clear and distinct of this communi- cation between the convoluted and figurate surfaces of the brain, it is convenient to follow the direction of the opening with the scalpel handle backwards and upwards, until it reach the upper margin of the brain-limb, where it is shown to he merely a continuation of the lateral part of the posterior opening. This step of the exposi- tion requires cautious and gentle management; and the peculiar curvature which the parts forming the outer border of the commu- nication follow, renders it difficult to avoid laceration or displace- ment. In general, it is best accomplished on a single hemisphere, from which the cerebellum has been previously removed; but it is desirable to preserve also the whole of the central band, which shows not only the relative connection of the several parts, but serves also to demonstrate a curious fact in the configuration of the parts form- ing the outer border of the communication. This is the hippo- campus through its entire course, or the body which its figure has led Professor Chaussier to name the cylindroid process. This body consists essentially of two parts. The first is an inner or central portion, gray in colour, notched or indented in appear- ance, and though free at the indented edge, adhering to the cere- bral substance by its opposite margin. This is the gray indented band; (Gordon;)—Ic corps godronnee, Vicq-D’Azyr.) It is as thick as a large crow-quill. This is covered by the outer or second part, which is a broad thin plate of white cerebral matter rolled or folded over the gray indented band, precisely as a map is rolled