GENITOURINARY MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 655 portion of the membrane. This region abounds with the canaliculi, to which Morgagni traced the secretion ; and in the dissections of John Hunter it was uniformly found redder, and more vasculai or blood-shot than usual, and the lacuna often filled with matter. Secondly, in cases in which the inflammation is more extensive, the membranous part of the canal, Cowper’s glands and their ducts, are involved in the morbid process. This, however, is exceedingly rare, according to Littre, Morgagni, and Baillie. The first, after inspecting forty cases of urethral inflammation, found in one case only the glands of Cowper morbid. Morgagni met with one 01 two instances only ; and John Hunter remarks, that if the mattei of clap were secreted and deposited either beyond or in the bulb, it would be incessantly ejected by the muscles, as occurs in regard to the urine and seminal fluid. In cases yet more extensive, the prostatic part of the urethra has been known to be inflamed ; and in very violent forms of clap, the inflammation has been found to extend to the bladder itself. It thus appears that no portion of the canal, from its orifice to the neck of the bladder, is exempt from inflammation ; and every part of the membrane between these two points has been found more or less reddened, slightly villous, vas- cular, and more or less swelled, so as to diminish sensibly the cali- bre of the canal. It is observed by Dr Baillie, that the inflamma- tion may pass from the mucous to the submucous membrane, and the surrounding tissue of the spongy body, which thus becomes larger and harder, in consequence of loaded vessels and effused lymph, than in the natural state. It is not improbable that this morbid state of the spongy body, by irritating the ischio-cavernosi muscles, and exciting them to action, gives rise to the painful af- fection denominated chorclce. The glands of Cowper have been seen indurated and like tuber- cles, in consequence of inflammation ; occasionally their ducts are rendered impervious, and in some instances ulcers take place. And in some instances the effect of this process is to obliterate both the longitudinal folds and the canaliculi of Morgagni. Ulceration, to which Morgagni himself had recourse, is not requisite to explain this occurrence, which may be affected by inflammatory thickening of their membrane. When the inflammation terminates in effusion of lymph into the submucous tissue, the swelling induces that con- traction of the canal which constitutes stricture. § 2. Cystidia. Cystirrlicea.—The cystic mucous membrane, like