449 BONE. bled freely and was dressed in the ordinary way. A few days after the parents requested the advice of an able surgeon, who, finding the wound swelled, hot, and painful, with scanty discharge, recom- mended the application of an emollient poultice, and the use of low diet with laxative medicine. In the course of a few days, suppura- tion took place to a great extent, yet without any appearance of the wound healing or adhering. The patient also complained of pain in the head, especially girding frontal headach; the appetite was gone; the pulse was quick, above 120; she looked pale and unwell; and occasionally felt shivering sensations. At this stage, about 15 or 16 days after the infliction of the wound, the surgeon requested me to see the child. The following was the state of matters. The lips of the wound were red, large, and gaping; much matter was proceeding from it; and it was the seat of very distinct pulsation, synchronous with that of the arte- | ries; while, when' the child cried, or breathed strongly, or coughed, matter issued copiously from the wound. When this matter was re- m moved hy the use of dry charpee, it was then distinctly seen that an aperture had been completely formed through the bone into the dura mater; that the brain and its membranes were exposed at the bottom of the wound, showing the two motions of the brain. The wround w-as in the right parietal bone near the coronal suture. The question was, what wras to be done ? I recommended that a little blood should be drawn from the arm; that the poultices should be given up; that the wound should be kept clean and. cool bv occasional ablution with cold water; that a light dressing con- , sisting of lint dipped in cold water, or a solution of sulphate of zinc, should be applied over the surface of the wound ; and that the patient should be kept quiet, and on moderate unstimulating diet. This plan was immediately adopted. In a few days the headach had subsided, the discharge was greatly diminished, the pulsating and heaving motion of the wound was no longer observed; new bony matter was deposited, and closed the aperture in the parietal f ljone i and in about 10 days more the wound was entirely healed. In this case, as there was ulceration of bone and loss of its sub- I. stance, there must have been deposition and new formation of it. The process I regard as peculiar to the young. ■ It takes place also in the tibia, in the sternum, and other super- ficial bones. In a more chronic form I have seen it cut through both nasal bones by insensible ulcerative absorption. This process corresponds with the insensible exfoliation or decomposition of Tenon ; v f