127 VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. diately below the liver, and a considerable quantity of coagulated lymph below the entrance of the three large hepatic veins, {vena cava hepatica,) which at once united the opposite sides of the ves- sel, and prevented this fluid from proceeding to the heart.* Simi- lar examples of obliteration are recorded by Haller, Moigagni, and by Hodgson,! and Breschet. In the College Museum collection there is a preparation of a case in which the right vena innominata was filled with a solid plug of fibrin or albuminous matter, in con- sequence of a tyromatous tumour compressing the vessel below, at its junction with the left vena innominata and vena cava, and in which the left innominata was very much contracted at its lower end. The pressure of the tumour in this case had interrupted the current of blood to the heart, and contracted the channel of the I vein; and in consequence blood had been coagulated and attached to the walls of the vessel, and so obstructed the interior of the vein. In 1841, a man under my care in the hospital, with obstinate ascites and indications of liver disease, had undergone the operation of paracentesis twice with relief, when no benefit was produced by in- ternal medicines. About twelve days after the performance of the second opera- tion, the water was again accumulating, and he died. Upon in- specting the body after death, I found the vena porta in the liver completely obstructed, being contracted and filled with lymph, and the lymph extending into the splenic and mesenteric veins. The lymph was small in quantity, and the trunks of the vessels were evidently diminished in size. The liver was reduced to about one- fourth of its usual size, the whole right lobe almost had become shrunk into a small portion, while the organ was represented by a small left lobe. A case of obliteration of the vena cava is recorded by M. Gely in Gazette Medicale, 7th November 1840. In other instances, when inflammation in the vein of an extremity takes place, causing permanent obstruction, it produces not only swelling of that extremity, but deposits of lymph in the veins, in the pulmonary artery, and in the vessels of the lungs. Thus I have seen inflammation of the femoral vein .with lymphy deposit within the vessel, followed after some time by the deposit of similar lymph and blood in clots in the branches of the pulmonary artery and in various parts of the lungs. * Transactions, &c. Vol. III. Art. vi. p. 63. + Treatise, p. 10. sect. 3.