958 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, a set of gorged tubules, presenting itself either at the surface of the gland, or in its substance on the surface of a section. In those stages of the disorder in which yellowish-gray or fawn- coloured granules are infiltrated as it were through the cortical substance, it seems consistent with correct pathology to ascribe this infiltration to the effect of the inflammatory process. One of the most constant effects of that process, if unchecked, is to give rise to morbid products of albuminous, tyromatous, or steatomatous cha- racters ; and it seems reasonable to regard this deposit, which is known to be steatomatous, as the effect of the inflammatory process. In the aggregated slate-gray granular deposit, the same views are applicable. If the isolated granular infiltration be the effect of inflammatory action, a fortiori, the aggregated granular deposi- tion is the effect of the same action. It appears as the termination of that process, of which the others are earlier and immediate ef- fects. One of the strongest arguments in favour of the disease origi- nating in congestion or inflammation is found in the fact, that it takes place after the operation of various agents which act as re- mote causes of inflammation. Thus it often ensues as a sequela of scarlet fever, especially if the patient have been exposed to cold. In that disease, and for some time after the disappearance of the eruption, the action of the skin remains feeble and languid; and the blood, which ought to circulate through the cutaneous vessels, is determined in excessive quantity to the kidneys and other inter- nal organs. The quantity of blood thus thrown upon the different internal organs is greater than their vessels can readily transmit; these, consequently, become unduly loaded and distended; and hence inflammation and often discharges of blood take place at this period in convalescents from scarlet fever; and, among other in- dications of this, the albuminous and occasionally the colouring matter of the blood is forced through the kidneys, and is found in the urine. The inflammatory character of this disease may be illustrated by considering the influence of another agent in its production. No- thing seems so certainly to be followed by the formation of granu- lar disease of the kidney as the use of mercury in certain constitu- tions. In some instances, one single course of mercurial medicines has been known to be followed by the development of the disorder; and in all cases in which repeated courses have been given, the dis- z