TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 589 This tabular statement contains 24 cases, among which eight ter- minated in death, five of these being cases in which the body was not ejected. In each of the cases terminating favourably the usual symptoms of chronic, bronchial, and even of pulmonary inflammation were induced; and purulent expectoration with occasional hemoptysis, and hectic and great wasting, threatened certain death. In each, however, after a lapse of weeks, months, or years, the foreign body was rejected by coughing when least expected, and recovery even- tually took place. Though this favourable issue prevents the pa- thologist from ascertaining with certainty the exact nature and ex- tent of the lesion, it is reasonable, from the facts disclosed by in- spection of the fatal cases, to infer that the bronchial membrane certainly, and probably the pulmonic tissue, were maintained in a state of chronic inflammation during the presence of the foreign body. Among the fatal cases are six in which the state of the parts was inspected after death ; and from these we learn several instruc- tive facts. 1. In the case given by Morton, the patient, after the first irri- tative symptoms were over, suffered so little inconvenience, and was apparently so well, that tor several months he pursued hisbusiness or profession as a whitewashes and entered into the matrimonial state. On the evening of the day of marriage, however, he was attacked with most acute pain of the breast and side, difficult breathing, and frequent dry cough, so urgent that he could neither lie in bed oor sleep. Fever followed; and, notwithstanding the active and udicious use of approved remedies, the symptoms of pulmonic in. lamination and suppuration with hectic were established, and death ook place at the end of five weeks. The three nails were found a little below the division of the ronchi, buried, as it were, in a bed of purulent matter, which was Iso spreading gradually through the lungs. The cavity of the leura contained about six pints of purulent matter. 2. In the case of the engraver recorded by De la Martiniere and /0U1S,the left lunS was sound. The right lung was almost entirely estroyed by suppuration. The right cavity of the chest was filled 1 jth purulent matter; and the Louis d’or was found placed perpen- jcular y at the upper part of the right lung at the first bifurcation the bronchus on this side.