GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 32 the filamentous tissue, makes no long abode in that situation, but in the healthy state is speedily removed ; so that if we suppose ex- halation, absorption must be also admitted; and the filamentous tissue is therefore represented as the seat of an incessant exhalation and absorption. The-'serous fluid of the filamentous tissue varies in quantity in different regions. In the cellular tissue of those parts which are free from fat, as in the eyelids, the prepuce, the nymphce and labia, and the scrotum, it is said to be somewhat more abundant than in others. The peculiar structure of those parts, which is cellular, may render any excess of serous fluid more conspicuous; for it is matter of observation, that in many persons otherwise healthy these parts are not unfrequently distended with serous fluid. On the other hand, it must be remarked that the submucous cellular tissue, and that which surrounds arteries, veins, and excreting ducts, which is delicate in substance and compact in structure, contains but a small proportion of serous fluid, and does not readily admit its presence. This fluid has been generally said to be of an albuminous nature ; and if it be identical with the serum of the blood, from which it is believed to be secreted, this character is not unjustly given it. Bichat, who maintained this opinion, injected alcohol into the fila- mentous tissue of an animal previously rendered emphysematous, and found in various parts whitish jlocculi, which he regarded as coagulated albumen. He also obtained the same result by immers- ing a portion of the scrotum in weak nitric acid; and when a con- siderable quantity of this tissue was boiled, it furnished much whitish foam, which Bichat regarded as albuminous.* These ex- periments, however, are liable to this objection, that the effects in question may have arisen from coagulation of part of the filamen- tous tissue itself, which contains a considerable proportion of albu- minous matter. The best mode of determining the point is to ob- tain the fluid apart, and to try the effects of the usual tests on it when isolated from the tissue in which it is lodged. The description here given applies to the proper filamentous tissue. This substance was shown by Ruysch, and afterwards by William Hunter and Mascagni, to be penetrated by arteries and veins. Exhalants, absorbents, and nerves, it is also said to receive. The arteries certainly belong in the healthy state to the order of colourless capillaries, which is nearly the same with exhalants. It * Anatomie General, Tome i. p. 50.