1008 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. poured forth much blood, which has been partly brought up by coughing, and partly filled the cavity with bloody clots, as was ascer- tained by inspection after death. The causes of haemoptysis may be understood from the account already given of the different circumstances under which hemor- rhage may take place. They may be shortly enumerated in the following manner: First, inflammatory action and induration; secondly, hemorrhagic induration, with or without disease of the heart; thirdly, disease of the arteries; fourthly, tubercular depo- sition ; fifthly, tubercular destruction and excavation; and sixth, bronchial hemorrhage. § 10. Tuberculatio. Tyromatosis. Tuberculosis. State of the Lungs in pulmonary Consumption.—In the bodies of those who have died after suffering from the usual symptoms of pulmonary consumption, as already specified, the lungs are. always more or less changed in structure and more or less destroyed. In those who have been long ill, and who have been much wasted, the upper regions of one or both lungs are much indurated, and occu- pied by one or more irregular-shaped cavities or caverns, contain- ing either air, or air and a little viscid puriform dirty-looking matter adhering to their walls. Very generally the apex of one or both lungs is firmly attached to the inner part of the chest, by the pulmonary pleura adhering closely to the costal pleura by means of false membrane, which is usually thick, firm, and cartilaginous. The extent of this adhesion may be such, as, while it surrounds the whole lung, not to descend below the third or the fourth rib; beneath which the pleura may be free from inflammatory exudation or adhesion ; it then forms a sort of cartilaginous cap or covering of the apex of the lung. But in some instances, while the pleura investing the upper lobe ad- heres firmly to the costal pleura, that covering the lower lobes and the middle lobe on the right side is covered by a layer more or less thick of albuminous exudation, while a quantity of sero-puru- lent fluid is found in the posterior part of the thoracic cavity. Almost invariably the lobes adhere by interlobular false mem- brane. Sometimes the greater part of one upper lobe is hollowed into one large irregular cavity ; more frequently the upper lobe pre- sents two or three caverns, either isolated or communicating; and in some instances the upper lobe is occupied by a number of cavi-