GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 40 Diffuse inflammation may occur in any part of the filamentous tissue of tflae whole body, and may affect either the subcutaneous and superficial, or the intermuscular and deep-seated layer. But the regions in which it is most commonly observed may be enu- merated in the following order :— a. The neck and throat. (Case by Wells in Transactions of a Society, Yol. III. p. 360, and by Wilson, p. 367. Angina inter- na of Kirkland, Vol. II. p. 158, and James, p. 187, &c.) In persons, generally females, of full gross habit and bloated appearance, swelling diffuse, deep-seated, on the side of the neck towards the angle of the jaw, causing much pain in the side of the head ; attended with much fever, general disorder, loss of appetite, raving, stupor, or coma. It terminates in sloughs of the tissue, foul, ill-conditioned purulent matter; does not point, but may burst internally, and cause suffocation. In some cases death takes place from the constitutional disorder with the affection of the brain. b. The breast, or outer surface of the chest and arm-pit and the side; abscess in the axilla of Kirkland. Several cases in Dr Dun- can’s Essay. Diffuse painful swelling of the side occurring in mid- dle-aged subjects, male or female, terminating in suppuration all over the side, or between the pectoral muscles, or in the arm-pit. c. An upper extremity, and passing to the arm-pit and side of the chest. This is the form which takes place after venesection, after punctured wounds in dissecting, or the application of animal matter or fluid to a wounded surface. cl. An inferior extremity. The swelled leg of puerperal women is to be referred to this head, (see Hunter, p. 204.) Certain in- juries of the foot and toes, more especially when the fibrous tissues have been much lacerated, appear also to be of the same kind. The phlegmonoid erysipelas of the lower extremities of seamen, as described by Mr Copland Hutchinson, comes under this head. c. The buttock and the perinaeum. (Proctia, phgma of the an- cients. Proctitis, Proctalgia and Cluncsia of the nosologists. Sup- puration gangreneuse of the French. Described by Pott in his 2d section on Fistula ani, p- 49. Case given by Hunter in his 3d chapter, section xiv., on the use of the adhesive inflammation. Ab- scess juxta anum of Mr James, p. 189.) In persons of gross ha- bit, either naturally or rendered so by intemperance, hard diffuse swelling of the verge of the anus on each side, skin doughy and unresisting, sometimes colourless, generally of a dusky red or pur- t