470 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. with pungent pain and swelling.* * * § There is good reason to think that the author has in view some of the multiplied effects of second- ary syphilis or mercurial disease. It appears, indeed, for a long time, to have been a common prac- tice to regard as spina ventosa many of these affections of the bones, which arise either from the operation of the syphilitic poison, or the hurtful effects of mercurial medicines; and I think it certain, that many of the painful affections of bones, dependent on one or other of these causes, were regarded as instances of spina ventosa. Such appear to have been the ideas of the first Monro, Cheselden, and, at a later period, Schlichting, who states that he observed the spina ventosa to be very like the venereal disease, and to corrupt the hu- mours and vessels of the body.f Cheston, (1766,) who was desirous chiefly to distinguish the disease from white swelling, after refer- ring to Avicenna and Mercklin, concludes with them that it begins originally within the bone, which is more or less enlarged. It is evident, however, that he had not formed any very clear or distinct idea of the nature of the malady. + Warner places it (1756, 1784) in the marrow and vessels of the bone,§ (p. 322); and Bromfield, we have seen, (1773) regards it as abscess of the marrow, without appearing to be aware of the re- lation between this and nekrosis\{. (P. 20-22). It is not wonderful, therefore, that Augustin, who published in 1797 a learned treatise on the subject, complains of the confused ideas and contradictory views given on this disease. He had en- deavoured, after studying the preparations in the museums at Ber- lin, Plalle, and Goettingen, to form a distinct and precise notion of the disease; and he has certainly added to our knowledge. Yet it cannot be said that his distinctions are so clear and precise as might have been expected. At that time it appears that several teachers called every internal caries by the name of spina ventosa ; others confounded it with every sort of swelling in bones. Spina ventosa Augustin represents to consist in internal inflam- * Traite des Maladies des Os. Par M. Du Verney, M. D. &c. Paris, 1751, Tom. I. Preface. VII. T Philosophical Transactions. London, 1742. No. 466. $ Pathological Observations and Inquiries on Surgery from the Dissection of Mor- bid Bodies. By Richard Browne Cheston, Surgeon to the Gloucester Infirmary. Gloucester, 1766, 4to. p. 117. § Cases in Surgery, with Introductions, Operations, and Remarks. By Joseph Warner, F. R. S., Senior Surgeon to Guy’s Hospital. London, 1760 and 1784. || Chirurgical Observations and Cases. By William Bromfield, Surgeon to Her Ma- jesty, &c. London, 1773. Vol. II. pp. 20 and 22.