GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 138 render his notions palpable, by supposing, in the language of tlie mathematical physicians, an inordinate flow, morbid afflux, or in- creased determination of blood to the inflamed parts. Had this opinion ever been subjected to rigid scrutiny, its fallacy must have been manifest. Is/, The fact of increased determination is not established. In its present state it is a mere assumption. 2c/, Increased determi- nation is not necessary to the production of the effect. When the capillaries of any part are unusually loaded, this may take place from the blood not being removed with the same regularity, and in the same proportion in which it is conveyed, with the same facility as by supposing an increased current. 3c/, Even admitting the current to be increased through any set of capillaries, it is impossi- ble to discover the agents of such a process. It is clear it cannot be the heart. And to suppose the capillaries capable of this, is to ascribe to them a power which they have not been proved, in ordinary circumstances, to possess. Against the hypothesis of increased force and increased velocity of circulation, various arguments may be urged; and several of these depend on the circumstance, that this hypothesis also has been assumed on very insufficient grounds. Is/, The increased number of the arterial pulse does not demonstrate that the blood is moving more rapidly than in the ordinary circumstances of health. It merely shows that the heart contracts more frequently in a given time than usual. 2<r/, The increased number, or strength, or ten- sion of the arterial pulse does not indicate that the blood is moving with greater force, or that the arteries through which it is moving are acting with greater power, but rather that the heart is contract- ing much more frequently in order to overcome some obstacle. 3d, It does not appear that the increased number or force of the pulse, as manifested by the contractions of the heart, depends on any other cause, than the vital irritation occasioned by a local sti- mulus of a morbid nature. 4th, The throbbing of inflamed parts proves nothing more, than that the shock communicated from the heart along the arterial tubes is rendered more sensible, first, by their dilated and distended condition ; and, secondly, by the greater quantity of matter deposited in and around these vessels. (Parry.) On the other hand, it appears to me certain that, from what we see by the microscope in the vessels of cold-blooded animals, as the frog, fish, &c. the blood moves most rapidly in the healthy