352 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. ened, it was lodged in a depression of the hemisphere. The con- tiguous cerebral matter was in the state of yellow ramollissement.* In his tenth engraving Dr Hooper gives a good delineation of an example of this disease. In this case the tumour, which was of an irregular oblong spheroidal shape, about 3^ inches long and 2 a broad,tarose by a broad base from the white cerebral substance of the left hemisphere near the ventricle, but not communicating with that cavity. Externally it was of a pink-red, or pale carmine co- lour, and of an irregularly lobulated arrangement. Though soft to the touch, it was elastic and cut firm, exposing a vascular mot- tled surface of a reddish-yellow colour, with portions of blood-like structure here and there. Besides the pia mater, which it raised, it was covered by a delicate and very vascular membrane, laminat- ed and shaggy. A tumour of similar characters is described under his sixth head by Dr Monro Ter tins ^ formerly Professor of Anatomy. In a young man who had suffered from headach, impaired vision, and nausea, followed by epilepsy terminating fatally in a few hours, in the middle lobe of the right hemisphere was a body the size of an orange, somewhat soft, but elastic, and of the colour and consist- ence of clotted blood. The surrounding brain was in a state of pulpy destruction. These two last cases are regarded as similar to the tumour named hsematoid fungus. I am not prepared to prove that they do not belong to this head; but their general resemblance in anatomical characters to that described by Rochoux, induces me to refer them to the head of Hcematoma. To the same head may be referred that described by Dr George Gregor)',| who, in a man labouring under headach, irritable sto- mach, and epileptic fits, and finally destroyed by epilepsy, found within a cyst in the anterior cornu of the left ventricle, before the striated nucleus, a body as large as a nutmeg, hard and fleshy, la- minated interiorly an inch thick like coagulated blood, with a cavity in the centre. d. Furnjus Ilcematodes. Enceplialoid or Cerebriforni tumour. This morbid growth has been often found in the brain either ex- clusively or in common with other textures. Enclosed almost in- * J. A. Rochoux, Recherches sur l’Apoplexie. A Paris, 1814. Obs. 38, p. 149. f The Morbid Anatomy of the Brain. By Alex. Monro, M. D. &c. p. 56. chap, i. + Medical and Physical Journal, Vol. L1V. p. 462.