555 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. ous. According to this anatomist the intestinal villi appear neithei conical, nor cylindrical, nor tubular, nor expanded at top, as de- scribed by several authors, but in the shape of leaflets or minute plates so closely set that they form an abundant tufted pile. Theii shape varies according to the manner in which they are examined, and according to the part. Those of the pyloric half of the sto- mach and duodenum are broader than long, and form minute plates; those of the jejunum are long and narrow, constituting piles; at the end of the ileum they become laminar; and in the colon are scarcely prominent. They are semitranslucent; their surface is smooth; and neither openings at their surface, or cavity, or their interior, or vascular structure can be recognized.* Follicles and Crypts.—In most mucous membranes are found minute, oval, or spheroidal bodies, slightly elevated, and present- ing an orifice leading to a blind or shut cavity. As they are be- lieved to secrete a fluid analogous to or identical with mucus, they are named mucous glands; and from their shape and situation they are also denominated follicles (folliculi) and cryptce. Though found in all the mucous membranes in more or less abundance, they have been most frequently examined in those of the alimen- tary canal, where they were first accurately described by Peyer and Brunner. ( Glandidce Peyeriance.|) In this situation they are situate in the substance of the mucous corion. Their structure, so far as it can be examined, is simple. The orifice leads into a sac- cular cavity, the surface of which is smooth and uniform, and ap- pears to secrete the fluid which oozes from them. This membranous sac appears to be lodged in a reddish-coloured, dense, abnormal mat- ter, which is probably filamentous tissue enveloping minute blood- vessels ; but of the minute structure of which nothing is accurately known. In the state of health these bodies are so minute that it is very difficult to recognize them. I have seen them, neverthe- less, in the tracheo-bronchial membrane by the eye and by a lens. When the membranes are inflamed they become larger and more distinct. In the bladder, the womb, the gall-bladder, and the se- minal vesicles, they are not distinctly seen, and cannot be satisfac- torily demonstrated. It is unnecessary, however, to follow the ex- * Anatomie Generate, chap. iii. sect. 2de, p. 253. t Joannis Conradi Peyeri Parerga Anatomica et Medtea Septem, Ratione ac Ex- periential parcntibus concepta et cdita. Geneva;, 1681. Parergon Secundum, p. 70* De Glandulis Intcstinalium, 1681. Brunner de Glandulis Duodeni. Francof. 1715.