MORBID STATES OF THE TESTIS. 969 so affected is hard, of a reddish gray colour, sometimes with white fibrous lines, the remains of the tubules. This portion afterwards shrinks, and is in the state of partial atrophy. § 4. Strumous Disease. Tyroma.—Chronic inflammation in the strumous is an affection of the testis not unusual. It gives rise to effusion of tyromatous sero-albumen within and around the tubules, filling and obstructing their cavity with tyromatous matter, and uniting the whole in a mass of tubercular matter. The testis is more enlarged than in common inflammation; and it is more or less irregular and nodulated on the surface according to the irre- gularity of the agglutinated masses of tubules composing the gland. Of this disease there are two forms; one mild, another more se- vere. In the former, the matter deposited is a peculiar yellow ho- mogeneous substance, which when first formed is fluid or semifluid and afterwards acquires consistence and firmness. It adheres closely to the tubuli, and involves them so completely as to convert tnem into one mass. In this state it may remain a long time, forming merely a much enlarged testis, or rather a tumour in- volving the testis. In this form, however, it is liable to undergo ulterior changes. Portions of the mass, which are always of a low degree of vitality, may undergo inflammation. Some of these become dead ; or por- tions are perhaps struck with death previously, and excite the vital pai ts to i eaction. Sloughing and suppuration proceed, until con- siderable portions of the new mass are ejected ; and if the patient’s general strength is adequate to endure all this process, the parts eventually heal after the separation of the greater part or the whole o the new gi owth, which generally involves the original tubular structure of the testis. In another form of this disease, the matter deposited contains a large proportion or consists wholly of tubercular matter. This tubercular matter possesses a degree of vitality still lower than the last, and more readily passes into disorganizing processes. Strumous abscesses are formed at the surface, or in the substance of the new growth ; and terminate in fistulae and sinuses. Some parts become dead, and these slough away as in the former case. The pro- IT’ however, is more enfeebling, whether, from its natural vio- ence or the weakness of the constitutions of those in whom it takes place. Many patients die under the process. The main cause of the sloughing in this form of disease appears