LYMPHATIC GLAND Oil GANGLION. 215 CHAPTER XI. LYMPHATIC GLAND OR GANGLION, KERNEL. (■GlandultB Ll/m pliaticce,— Glandules Conglobates.—Die Saugader-Dreusen.) Section I. This is the proper place to consider the structure of those bodies which are in common language termed kernels, to which anatomists have applied the name of lymphatic glands, and the French ana- tomists have more recently given that of lymphatic ganglions. The general appearance, figure, and usual situation of these bodies, are well known and described in the common treatises on anatomy. In general they are spheroidal, seldom quite globular, and most com- monly their shape is that of a flattened spheroid. In different sub- jects, and in subjects at different ages, they vary from two or three lines to an inch in diameter. The medium rate is about half an inch. Their surface is smooth; their colour grayish-pink, some- times pale red, bluish, or of a peach-blossom tinge,—varieties which seem to depend on degrees of bloody transudation ; for when wash- ed and slightly macerated, they assume the gray or whitish-blue colour. In a few instances they are jet black,—a peculiarity which seems to depend on a degree of black infiltration, or on the incipient stage of that change which has been termed melanosis, or melanotic deposition. The idea that it may be derived from the carbonaceous matter suspended in the atmosphere of great cities, has been shown by Cruikshank to be absurd. Its anatomical pos- sibility may be justly questioned. They are always situate in the celluloso-adipose tissue found in the flexures of the joints. They are found in small number at the bend of the ham, and that of the elbow ; they are more numerous in the arm-pit and groin ; in considerable number in the cellular tissue of the lumbar region, before the psoas and iliacus muscles; and they are most abundant round the neck. The posterior me- diastinum, and the cellular tissue between the mesentery and ver- tebral column, abounds with lymphatic glands mutually connected in clusters. Each gland may be said to consist of a peculiar substance, in