SEROUS MEMBRANE.—CHRONIC PLEURISY. ‘ ' tinned fever of this country, renders it unnecessary to dwell longer on this point. In favour of the same inference, the connection so often remark- ed between dropsy and hemorrhage might be adduced. My limits, however, do not permit me to add more. II. Peculiarities in Individual Inflammations. The prin- cipal pathological facts regarding the process of inflammation in serous membrane have been so fully stated, that it is superfluous to dwell on the individual diseases. I shall merely, after enumerating them, make a few remarks on some peculiarities presented by the chronic forms of these disorders. They may be arranged in the following order, showing their transition into dropsies. Acute form. Chronic form. Cerebral envelopes, Meningitis ; Arachnitis, Pleura, Pleuritic, Empyema, Pericardium, Pericarditis, Pyocanlia, Peritonaeum, Peritonitis, Chronic peritonitis, Perididymis, Orchitis, Empyocele, Visceral divisions of the peritonseum. Dropsical form. Hydrencephalus. Hydrothorax. Hydrocardia. Ascites. Hydrocele. Gastric peritonaeum, Gastritis. Intestinal peritonaeum, Enteritis. Colic peritonaeum, Colitis. Mesenteric peritonaeum, Mesenteritis. Omentum, Epiploitis. Cystic peritonaeum, Cystitis. Hepatic peritonaeum, Hepatitis. Splenic peritonaeum, Lienitis. Uterine peritonaeum, Hysteritis. § 1. Chronic pleurisy {empyema) is remarkable for the effects which it produces. Firstj the great accumulation of fluid forces the lung towards the mediastinum and spine, and compresses it into so small bulk that it appears to be destroyed. Inspection shows, however, that it is merely compressed. Its vessels are crushed together ; its bron- chial tubes and vesicles closed; and the whole organ is rendered un- fit for respiration. This is the condition mentioned by Broussais un- der the name of atrophied lung.* Second, suppurative destruction may take place in the pulmonic pleura and corresponding part of the lung, and lay open one or more bronchial tubes, causing pulmonary fistula and pneumothorax. Sero-purulent or purulent fluid is then discharged by coughing in a forcible and continuous stream. Of this kind arc many cases of pulmonary abscess reported to be cured. * Phlegmasies Chroniqucs, Cases 19,20, 24, 25, 27, 28, 30.