290 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Torti, Donald Monro, and a paper of M. Marteau de Grand villiers.* Riel appears to have entertained the idea, that cerebral inflamma- tion, though not the cause of the symptoms, takes place in fever. The first attempt, however, to connect the phenomena of fever with those of inflammation, was made by Ploucquet of Tubingen in 1800,f and this was more expressly undertaken by Costantin of Leipzic in the same year, in consequence of an epidemic typhus which had prevailed at Leipzic in 1799. According to the latter author, Encephalitis, by which he understands that form of fever which happens to the cerebral and cerebellic vessels and membranes, comprehends three genera, Synocha, Typhus, and Paralysis;—the first distinguished by increased irritability, with normal or increas- ed reaction ; the second by increased irritability, but impaired reac- tion ; and the third by irritability and reaction being equally im- paired, inert, and more or less abolished.]: These ideas, though carried to an extreme, derive some support from the phenomena of fever, and the morbid changes left in the brain. They were afterwards more fully developed by Clutterbuck § and Mills|| in this country, and by MarcusIF and others in Germany. The merits of this theory I have already attempted partially to appreciate. Though autoptic examinations prove that the capilla- ries of the brain, in common with those of other organs, are much overloaded with slowly moving blood, this state differs from inflam- mation in several respects. Suppuration, especially, is not a con- stant, or is rather an exceedingly rare occurrence, and is to be re- garded as adventitious, or depending upon accidental peculiarities and idiosyncrasies, and not essential. The overloaded state of the capillaries, though taking place in those of the organ itself, is never- theless more remarkable, according to my observation, in those of the proper cerebral membrane. The principal character of that blood is, as I have above shown, that it is non-arterialized, and consequently poisonous. * Description des Fievres Malignes avec unc Inflammation sourde du Cerveau, &c. &c. Par M Marteau dc Grandvilliers, Medccin de l’Hopital a Aumale, Journal de Medecine, Tome VIII. 1758. p. 275. + G. F. Ploucquet Expositio Nosologica Typhi. Tubingen, 1800. Tubing. Anz. 1800. + Caroli Fred. Costantin, M. D. Dissertatio de Encephalitide. Lips. 1800. Ext. in Brera Sylloge, Vol. VI. p. 72. § An Inquiry into the Seat and Nature of Fever, &c. By Henry Clutterbuck, M.D- &c. Lond. 1807, and second edition, London, 1825. || On the Utility of Blood-letting in Fever. By Thomas Mills. Dublin, 1819. *U Ephemeriden der Ileilkunde. Band I. Heft. 1.