1016 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the average, he states that this is owing to the extravasation of glutinous matter (albuminous matter,) which, after filling the lym- phatic glands and the lymphatie vessels terminating in them, is fur- ther extravasated into the tissue of the lungs, and forms these tu- bercles sometimes in infinite numbers. Part of this doctrine seems to be well founded, and part of it is perhaps open to objection. When it is admitted that tubercles may arise from extravasation of albuminous matter into the sub- stance of the lung, the exclusive deposition of these bodies in the bronchial or lymphatic glands is virtually abandoned. The only question is, whether this effusion is the effect of the preliminary abundance of fluid in the glands and lymphatic vessels; and whe- ther this alleged extravasation, which forms tubercles in the fila- mentous tissue of the lungs, may not take place without affection of the glands, and does not take place, as Broussais seems to think, previously to that affection of the glands. It is proper to add, that M. Andral admits that this mode of the formation of tubercles in the lungs, viz. by tubercular matter being deposited in the lympha- tic ganglions of the interior of the lung, is not improbable.* 3. An opinion, which appears to be most consonant to the facts, is that which was brought forward in 1821 by Magendie, and in 1826 by M. Schroeder, who fix the seat of tubercular deposition in the extremities of the bronchial tubes, or in what are named the pul- monic vesicles, in which the tubercles are deposited from the fine mucous membrane in a state of inflammation. According to Magendie, the first indications of tubercular phthisis consist in the deposit of a certain quantity of grayish-yel- low matter, in one or more cells of the lung. The yellow matter sometimes fills completely and distends the cells; but it is easy to perceive the small blood-vessels which circumscribe the matter de- posited. In other instances the yellow matter is movable within the cells, and may probably be expelled from them. In some instances only one or two cells contain yellow matte) ; hut most frequently it fills all the cells, forming a lobule. In tbit, case the matter adheres to the small vessels; and these soon dis- appear ; on which the whole lobule seems formed by yellow or tu- bercular matter. After opening numerous bodies, M. Magendie never saw in the * Clinique Medicale, Partie iii. sect. iii.