INFLAMMATION OF THE PANCREAS. 833 Upon inspecting the body, the cellular texture round the pan- creas and duodenum, the great and small omentum, the root of the mesentery, the mesocolon, and the appendices epiploic ce. of the arch of the colon, was loaded with serous fluid, transparent, bright yellow, and of watery consistence, which escaped abundantly from incisions. The pancreas was throughout of a deep dull red colour, which contrasted very remarkably with the bloodless condition of other parts. It was firm to the feeling externally; and when an incision was made into it, the divided lobules felt particularly firm and crisp. The texture was otherwise healthy. The part was left wrapped in a cloth for nearly forty-eight hours after its removal from the body, when the weather was very cold. At the end of this time the hardness was gone, and the gland appeared rather soft.* From this it results that redness, and vascularity, and slight hardness followed by softening, with infiltration of serous or sero- albuminous fluid, constitute the anatomical characters of pancreatic inflammation. Ihis case also illustrates a principle formerly men- tioned as to the effects of inflammation, namely, that the process renders the tissues friable and easily lacerable. § 2. Adhesion of the pancreas to the adjoining organs may be the effect either of suppurative or common inflammation. In general, when suppurative inflammation takes place, more or less albumi- nous deposition is formed, and connects the gland to the adjoining organs, either to prevent the farther progress of the destructive effects of the suppuration, or to prevent the purulent matter from being absorbed by the veins and transported into the circulating system. & § 3. Purulent Inflammation of the Pancreas.—Collections of pu- rulent matter in the pancreas have been observed by many anato- mists. Tulpius mentions the case of a young man who, after an intermittent fever, was attacked with pain in the belly and loins, so violent, that he was unable to lie on any side. After death’ esules inflammation of the liver, the pancreas was found suppu- rated.! Thomas Bartholin found, in a man who had previously fever mfl, pants in the back and in the loins, the pancreas alto- gethcr destroyed by an enormous abscess full of foetid greenish i» 1 “LhcTnL’S™" n “war"" f”D“lh'th0 ™ Tn™«.i.«., V.I. xvi, p. ™'“’ "• “• S- ““'C''™- ' Mei'- Llhir «P- P- 327. Amst. 16.52 |672.