GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 656 the urethral, is liable to inflammation either over its whole extent or at a single spot. The part most frequently affected is the neck of the bladder and the space termed cystic triangle {la trigone vesi- cate) ; a circumstance which has been ascribed to one of two causes. The first is, that the neck is most usually affected by mechanical obstructions to the passage of the urine, and is therefore most likely to be the first seat of the irritation which connects injury and inflammatory action. The other is, that its contiguity to the urethra renders it liable to be first affected by inflammation of that canal when disposed to spread, or when, in consequence of bad treatment, chronicity, or other causes, urethral becomes an exciting cause of cystic inflammation. From either of these causes, inflammation may be developed in the cystic mucous surface near the neck of the bladder, and may thence be propagated over a considerable extent of tbe membrane, which then becomes marked by red points, villous, highly vascular, and diffusely swelled, with occasional spots of extravasated blood. In general, the character of this inflammation is to spread; and in ordinary cases it does so without affecting the submucous or other tissues. Instances, however, occur, in which it passes successively to the submucous filamentous tissue, to the muscular, and thence to the peritoneal coat. In the spreading form the inflammation is attended with secretion of thick mucous or puriform fluid, which falls to the bottom of the urine. It may terminate in resolution, in suppuration, in destruction of the coats or ulceration ; or lastly, it may pass into the chronic slate. The manner in which the two first terminations are effected, is in every respect similar to these processes, as they take place in other mucous surfaces. The third, or ulceration of the mucous and other tissues of the bladder, is not uncommon, and may occur under two forms. In the first, which is most common, it may be superficial, and remove the whole mucous membrane so as to expose the muscular layer as if it had been neatly dissected. In tbe second, which is more usual, the ulcerative process advances in minute patches from the mucous to the submucous and muscular tissues, and in some instances to the subserous and peritoneal membrane. This process differs from the other in this respect, that lymph is irregularly deposited, that there is considerable swelling, and sometimes a true abscess is formed. More frequently, however, small portions of the mucous 3