546 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL^ ANATOMY. magnifying glass moving on a coloured surface, especially if dark. It is about parts of one inch in diameter. With one glass, the feet may be numbered, the mouth distinguished, and all the other details of outline recognized. The head and fore feet are capable of being concealed under the body by incurvation downwards; and in this attitude these five members seem withdrawn within coverings. The posterior portion of the body placed in the same position pre- sents eight seta or hairs, gradually decreasing in size, till they ap- proach the vent. Tour of them belong to the hind feet; and of the other four, two are inserted on each side of the vent. When examined lengthwise by the microscope, the animal ap- pears flattened ; and in the transparent places it presents parallel curved strise, which give it the appearance of the shell of a fish viewed by the same magnifying power. These stria cover the whole surface of the body of the insect, forming a large cellular network, the cellulce of which are linear and hollow, the interstitial partitions relieved and prominent. This network strongly resists cutting instruments, so that it is difficult to kill the insect with the point of a needle while extracting it. When placed on the back, so as to examine the anterior or infe- rior surface, the organization of this insect appears greatly more complicated. The head and the four anterior feet are implanted in an equal number of cases, not dissimilar to incomplete elytrce. The head is simple and curved downwards by the snout or probo- scis, or sucker. Placed in acetic acid, two transparent vesicles come into view, which might be taken for eyes. The articulations of the legs require long observation to be quite visible. Each of these articulations is covered by hairs, of which those only on the sides are visible. The last joint is covered with short prickles, and armed beneath with a stiff hair, which is terminated beneath by a flexible cavity capable of producing a vacuum, like the soft glutinous pads of certain animals much higher in the scale, such as the tree-frog. To these pads, which enable the animal to fix itself in any position, M. Raspail applies the denomination of ambulacra. There are four posterior legs, which are smaller and shorter, and less easily distinguished than the anterior legs. They are so small and slender that by De Geer they were mistaken for hairs or seta. They have the same organization and the same locomotive apparatus as the anterior legs, excepting the part called by Raspail ambulacrum,