102 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, small wounds, especially longitudinal, this union may be effected without obliteration of the canal. But when the wound is large or oblique, if the inflammation is sufficient to effect union and prevent further hemorrhage, so much lymph is effused, that in general, with the pressure and rest requisite, the opposite sides of the vessel adhere, and its canal is for some space obliterated. (Jones, Hodg- son.) In most cases, however, of longitudinal or oblique wounds, and in all cases of partial transverse wounds, the process is different. Supposing the external opening to be closed, which it sooner or later is, the blood from the wounded artery is extensively injected into the sheath, where its coagulation prevents as before further effusion. Though inflammation takes place, however, and lymph is effused, it is insufficient to unite permanently the divided edges. Either the wound is never thoroughly united, or at a period after its infliction, varying according to its extent and direction, and ac- cording to the size of the artery and its distance from the heart, its edges are rent asunder by the incessant impulse. (Jones, Hodg- son, Guthrie.) Blood continues from time to time to escape into the sheath, which it distends into a sac, and in which it is deposited in successive layers. In this manner is formed a pulsating tumour, which has been termed false, spurious, or bastard aneurism. (Monro Primus.) If the injection is extensive, so as to cause a diffuse swelling, spreading to some distance along the limb, the disease is termed diffuse aneurism. If it is more limited, distends the sheath into a globular sac, and assumes the appearance of the usual aneu- rismal tumour, then it is termed circumscribed aneurism. This is the sort of aneurism which takes place when the brachial artery is opened, instead of the vein at the bend of the arm ; (William Cow- per, Macgill, Monro Primus, &c.) and it is not uncommon in the temporal artery, when that vessel has been opened to discharge blood for affections of the head. It may, however, succeed punc- tured wounds, especially sword-thrusts in any part of the body. In short, every cause which partially wounds or injures the side of an artei’y, as a sharp spicula of bone, may be followed by false aneu- rism. At the bend of the arm it is to be distinguished from aneu- rismal varix and varicose aneurism. When an artery is entirely divided across, the result varies ac- cording to the size of the vessel. The moment the division is com- pleted, a copious gush of blood issues from the vessel, the divided