general and pathological anatomy. 620 pertrophied, rendering the inner surface of the tube irregular and hard. Chronic inflammation is liable to attack this organ in the cir- cumscribed form ; that is, affecting a small spot and proceeding to ulceration of the mucous membrane, and destruction of the whole tissues;—producing perforation of a part of the organ not ad- herent. The effects are quite similar to those of ulceration and perforation of the stomach. Chronic thickening of the duodenum is liable to take place at any part of the bowel; in some cases in consequence of inflamma- tion and congestion, in others in consequence of deposition of new matter. If the thickening take place near the point where the common duct enters the bowel, it causes jaundice often of a most obstinate character. It is still worse where the deposit is tubercu- lar or scirrhous. In one case of this kind, the jaundiced colour of the surface was not only very deep, but continued obstinately to the last. It was found after death that the mucous membrane of the duodenum was the seat of a deposition of tubercles near and all round the orifice of the common duct; and that these had thicken- ed the tissues of the bowel to so great a degree as to obstruct en- tirely the orifice of the duct. The surface of this deposition was beginning to be ulcerated, being irregular and abraded; and, had life been prolonged, the morbid process would doubtless have de- stroyed the tissue of the bowel and caused perforation. Any other deposit is liable to produce the same results. § 4. Enteria.—Inflammation of the iliac mucous membrane is greatly more frequent than it has been represented by authors. Whatever be the influence of authority to the contrary, it may be shown that the frequent fluid alvine discharges, to which physicians give the name of diarrhoea, are in the greater number of cases to be referred to inflammation of the mucous surface of the intestines, spreading over a considerable extent, and rarely penetrating to the submucous filamentous tissue. Though it was originally maintained by Glisson on the evidence of dissection, that in diarrhoea the intestinal mucous membrane is inflamed, and a similar idea was entertained by Baglivi and other Italian physicians, the facts on which this opinion rests, appear to have been overlooked, amidst the zeal and ingenuity with which the hypothesis of inordinate motion (motus abnormis) of the school of Hoffmann and Cullen was defended. Next to the instance re-