GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 766 and urged on its onward course through the rest of the intestinal canal. The chyme may nevertheless he said to make the circuit of the pancreatoid chambers. Notwithstanding this arrangement, the pancreatoid organ is re- garded by most anatomists as an example of a gland ; and except- ing the circumstance of the chyme being conveyed to its interior, instead of its secreted product being conveyed to the chyme, it may be regarded as presenting on the large scale, the structure and in- ternal arrangement, which in other glands is so minute and delicate as to elude observation. In short, the pancreatoid organ of the sturgeon may be regard- ed as an aggregation of glandular sacs or cells, communicating with each other, and the interior of which furnishes a liquid secret- ed from its blood-vessels, which are litrge and numerous. There is, however, still one point on which information is want- ing. This is, how do the blood-vessels terminate and communicate with this secreting surface ? On this point no accurate information has been obtained. The kidneys, or rather the urinary organs, of the sturgeon in like manner may be taken as organs illustrating what may be re- garded as the most simple form of glandular structure. The urinary organs of the sturgeon consist of two long tubular canals, placed on each side of the intestine with the spiral valve, and resting on the spinal column and its muscles, to which they are attached by cellular membrane. These organs resemble neither the kidneys, nor the ureters, nor the bladder of the Mammalia and Birds, but combine the characters of all these. Their parietes are thin and membranous, so as to seem like elongated bladders or utri- cvli. Their inner surface, which is red, smooth, and mucous, but not distinctly villous, presents a series of minute orifices not larger than pin heads. These orifices or pores correspond partly to the infun- dibula, partly to the uriniferous tubes of mammiferous animals. The lower extremities of these canals widen; and, suddenly con- tracting, terminate in one common outlet or vent, which opens on the surface behind that of the intestine at the anal fin. These urinary organs, which in this manner represent at once kidneys, ureter, and bladder, and even urethra, are membranous sacculi or utriculi, which in this manner act as glandular surfaces, or secreting and excreting surfaces. The small pores are the out- lets of the secreting portion; but around them the parts are so