GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 124 Section II. Venous tissue is liable to inflammation, adhesive or circum- scribed, and spreading,—generally suppurative, to varix, to osse- ous deposition, and to the formation of concretions. 1. Inflammation. (Phlebitis.) Of circumscribed or adhesive in- flammation of veins, a good example is found in the ordinary union after incised wounds, as in venesection. In this case the lips of the wound, if accurately applied to each other, adhere sometimes di- rectly by inosculation, in other instances by effusion of lymph, which becomes organized. 2. Spreading inflammation of venous tissue is a much more se- rious disorder, and appears to belong essentially to the inner ve- nous membrane. Rarely spontaneous, it takes place only after some violence offered to the vein ; but the degrees of this may be so various, and even the kinds so different, that it is impossible to trace much analogy of action between them. Thus it may occur after a simple clean incision, as in blood-letting; after the appli- cation of a ligature, as occasionally happens in amputation, in the operation for varix, or in the umbilical chord after birth; or in consequence of pressure, as sometimes happens after the use of a tourniquet. In either case, the inflammatory action originating in one spot of the inner membrane, spreads along its surface, generally towards the heart, more or less rapidly, and with much violence. The pathological effects of this process vary according to its se- verity and extent. In general the tissue of the affected vein or veins is swelled, thickened, and indurated to such a degree as make the vessel resemble an artery. Much pain is felt along the course of the inflamed vessel. The whole limb is diffusely swelled; and the skin is tense, with tenderness of the surface. Upon examina- tion of the parts, it is found that the whole subcutaneous cellular and adipose tissue are filled with serous fluid. The vein is found firm and hard, sometimes filled with bloody clots. When laid open, clots of blood or lymph or both are found adhering to the inner tunic, which is rough and irregular, and thicker than usual. In these clots are contained specks of purulent matter. In other in- stances, the interior is filled with purulent matter, or presents a series of abscesses along the tract of the canal; and the inner tu- nic is generally removed, the middle one not unfrequently injured by ulceration. This process is always attended with great coinmo-