STEATOSIS OR GRANULAR DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY. 949 jected size; while the diseased and gray-coloured portions receive little or none of the injected size. In general, kidneys in this state are of the natural size, and, in- stead of being soft and flaccid, are either of normal consistence, or a little firmer than natural. b. In a variety, which is perhaps in a more advanced stage of progress, the outer surface of the gland, if stripped of its capsule, is still more extensively marked with pits containing clusters of blood- vessels, so that the whole surface is irregular and vascular. These blood-vessels are star-like or asteroid, branch-like or ramiform, or in the shape of small dots and points, stigmatoid ; and, according to the number, the size, and the aggregation of these clusters, the external surface of the gland is red and vascular or otherwise. Be- sides this vascular redness in pits and hollows of the surface, the whole gland is moulded as it were into irregular large hollows and elevations, so as to seem tuberculated or mammillated. Of the parts not vascular the colour is a sort of stone-gray or light reddish yellow, or fawn-coloured, in considerable masses, so as to render the surface mottled or rather marbled. A longitudinal section of a kidney in this state often shows a very complete change in the cortical texture. It presents little or no remains of striated matter ; but the whole cortical portion is one uniform mass of yellowish gray, or buff-orange, or sienna yellow, or cream-yellow. In this case the new matter is not merely infil- trated, but it is so diffused that the cortical portion is transformed into it. A few tubular cones still remain more or less complete; but either they become transformed into the gray-coloured deposit, or the transformed cortical matter has so much encroached on them as to have diminished much their usual dimensions. The shape of the kidney in this variety sometimes presents a singular deviation from the natural standard. The gland is ta- pered at each end, so as to present an apex more or less acumina- ted, instead of the usual rounded end of the gland. I am unable to say, whether this change in figure is congenital or the effect of the disease. I he cortical matter of the kidneys, so far transformed as in this variety, is almost altogether incapable of receiving injection. 4. In the next varieties, it may seem doubtful whether they are different from the last, or only the most advanced stages of the transformation and deposition. The external surface of the kidney is of a slate-gray or leaden-