STEATOSIS Oil GRANULAR DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY. 955 disease, which is the inflammatory, is thick, white-yellowish, varie- gated with red dots and lines, and very compact like lard. The substance contains little blood. The vessels of the Malpighian bodies are much less distinct than in the normal state. The tu- bules are indistinct and confused, and between and around them plastic matter is infiltrated. A similar infiltration is observed among the medullary tubules.* The views of Gfluge have been confirmed in this country by the researches of Dr Johnson and Mr Toynbee. The former believing that the epithelial cells of the healthy kidney contain a minute quantity of oil in the form of yellowish highly refracting globules, maintains that granular kidney consists primarily in an exaggera- tion of the fatty matter which naturally exists in small quantities in the epithelial cells of the healthy gland. The epithelial cells of the tubules may be in every degree and stage of distension with fat-gloftules, until the cell is so filled that the nucleus is no longer visible. The Malpighian bodies are the only parts which escape, a few particles only being scattered over their interior. The different modes and degrees in which the fatty deposit takes place give rise to the different external appearances of the kidney. As the accumulation of fat increases, the kidney becomes granular or mottled on the surface. The smooth mottled kidneys are those in which the greatest number of the tubes in the cortical portion are almost uniformly distended. The granular and atrophied or small shrunk kidneys are those in which the accumulation of fat takes place less rapidly and less uniformly. Some convoluted tubes become distended with fat, forming prominent granulations; and these compressing surrounding parts produce obliteration of vessels and atrophy of tubes; and thus the entire gland is wasted and con- tracted. Dr Johnson further finds that granular disease of the kidney is often associated with fatty disease of the liver and the steatomatous degeneration of the arteries, which is also an adipose deposit Among 22 cases of granular disease of the kidney examined in the summer of 1845, in 17 of these there was in a most marked decree fatty degeneration of the liver. In 4 of the remaining 5 cases there was a deeded increase of fat in the hepatic cells; and in only one case was no increase observed. During the same period Dr J. met with only 4 cases of fatty liver in which there was no at- tendant disease of the kidney. * Julii Vogel leones Pathologieae, Tabula xxvi. p. 107.