880 GENERAL ANI) PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. without improving the condition of the patient; and in rather more than three weeks they returned, accompanied with delirium, fol- lowed by profuse sweatings and diarrhoea. In ten days more death followed, the whole duration of the illness having been about 73 days. At the pyloric end of the stomach was an ulcerated cancer, which had destroyed the mucous membrane to the extent of more than a shilling. The liver was in size normal, but yellowish, and as if fatty; and part of it was dotted with red points, which were traced to the inter-lobular veins. Disseminated in the hepatic substance were seven or eight purulent collections, which looked like metas- tatic abscesses. The largest of these was the size of a hen’s egg. One of these abscesses was situate near one of the trunks of the sub-hepatic veins, as they enter the vena cava, where that vessel is attached to the base of the lobule of Spigelius. This abscess had caused inflammation in the venous trunk, so that the latter showed, at some lines from its opening into the vena cava, an ulceration about eight millimetres (t5q of one inch) in diameter, while matter easily flowed from the abscess into the cavity of the vessel. The portion of the vein between the ulceration and the vena cava was quite covered with lymph sufficiently thick to protect the interior of the vein from the entrance of the purulent matter. Above the ulcera- tion the vessel was intensely inflamed; and its area was obliterated by lymph and fibrinous clots. The circulation was thus completely interrupted.* This disease is generally fatal. Yet I have stated in a former part of this work, (p. 127,) that I have met with a case in which the trunk of the portal vein, together with those of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, were completely filled and obstructed by a solid coaguluin of lymph apparently, or lymph with fibrin of blood. In this case it is probable that the obstruction or closure of the vein in this manner must have arisen from one of two causes; either inflammation within the vein, or pressure exter- nally. If the former were the cause, then the closure was perhaps * These eases have since been quoted in a German journal, in order to prove that splenic inflammation and enlargement is the primary cause of intermittent fever, not the effect; and in order to accomplish this, the speculator has added to the report ot the first case, that the spleen was strongly developed and distinctly circumscribed, am in the second, that its volume was evidently increased.