GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 726 opacity; in several thickened; and in one-half at least with infil- tration into the subarachnoid tissue. Of these 24, 13 belong to the first class in presenting traces of injection of the pia mater. In 21 cases, serous fluid varying in amount from two tea-spoonful to four, six, or eight ounces was found in the ventricles; and of these also 10 corresponded with the first class in presenting traces of me- ningeal inflammation more or less intense. The presence of this fluid in the cerebral cavities, I have already shown, indicates pre- vious vascular congestion of the choroid plexus ; and though this membrane was not in all instances much or evidently affected, yet, since in several it was vascular, thickened, vesicular, or indurated, the appearance of fluid in the cavities is as unequivocal a mark of previous inflammation as if it had been reddened, injected, or pe- netrated by extravasated blood. The opacity, both macular and diffuse, Dr Haslam regards as marks of inflammation; and the sub- arachnoid infiltration is of the same nature. In several cases, (5, 7, 8,14, 15, 18,) the injection had proceeded to extravasated patches. In one case, in which the patient died hemiplegic, the right lateral ventricle was distended with dark-coloured blood which had issued from the choroid plexus; and in one, in which the patient dropped down lifeless in a moment, much blood was extravasated between the cerebral membranes.* The cases dissected by Dr Marshall about the same time, but published some years after, furnish similar results. Of 22 cases of insane persons whose brains were inspected by this anatomist, in 21 serous fluid, varying in amount from 1, 2, or 4, to 12 ounces, was found in the cerebral cavities; and in 17 of these 21 cases similar effusion was found in the subarachnoid tissue occasionally to the extent of elevating the arachnoid membrane in minute vesicles or cysts, (cases 6, 8, 9, 18, 22.) Though the pia mater is said to have been injected in four cases only, and the arachnoid to have been opaque in two, it results from the fluid effused into the ventiiclcs or between the membranes, from the vascularity of the substance of the brain, and from the facility with which the pia mater was de- tached from the convoluted surface, that the capillaries of the lat- ter membrane were in a morbid state.t It is further to be lemaik- ed, that in nine of these cases were the arteries of the brain opaque, * Observations on Madness and Melancholy, &c. by John Haslam, 2d edition. The Morbid Anatomy of the Brain in Mania and Hydrophobia, &c. &e. collected from the Papers of the late Andrew Marshall, M. D. 1«15.