GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 218 compressing the windpipe, caused fatal suffocation. (Soemmering and others.) Bleuland saw them in an infant impede deglutition by pressing the oesophagus,* 7. Adenitis. Irritative Enlargement. The lymphatic glands are liable to become painful and enlarged, in consequence of causes not originally resident in themselves. A sore or wound, especially if punctured or lacerated, on the hand or foot, may be succeeded in a few days by an enlarged painful swelling of one or more glands in the arm-pit or groin. A wound of the scalp may be followed by a glandular swelling of the neck ; and a spoilt tooth, or a sore of the mouth, will often give rise to a painful enlargement of the glands under the jaw. I have repeatedly seen a whole chain of them enlarge, and continue so for months, in consequence of the use of mercury carried to salivation, and especially after enlarge- ment and ulceration of the muciparous follicles of the ileum, whe- ther isolated or aggregated. It is particularly to be observed, that when these follicles of the aggregated glands become prominent and swelled, or affected by ulceration, which usually takes place towards the lower end of the ileum, then the mesenteric glands op- posite and corresponding to these intestinal follicles become en- larged and swelled often to a great degree. The enlargement and swelling seem at first to be simple enlargement of the glandular parenchyma; but after some time this appears to contain a new deposit, which appears to be what I have called tyromatous matter. The tracheo-bronchial glands become enlarged in inflammation of the bronchial membrane of the pulmonic tissue, and other dis- eases of the lungs; and those of the mesentery increase in conse- quence of disease of the intestinal canal. In such instances it is ob- vious that irritation at the organic end of the lymphatics is the cause of morbid action in the glands, at the glandular end of these vessels. In other instances, for example, when a sore on the penis is fol- lowed by enlargement of the inguinal glands, or a cancerous breast is attended with swelling and pain of the axillary glands, it has been concluded, that, as the primary diseases depend on a peculiar or specific action, as it was termed, peculiar matter is absorbed, and conveyed to the gland, in which it gives rise to the morbid changes. We now know that it is unnecessary, in the majority of cases, to suppose absorption, which indeed is rendered very doubtful; and * Obaervationes de sano ct morbosa (Esophagi Structure. Lugdun. Bat. 1785. i