NERVOUS TISSUE. 367 Wutzer mentions a cluster of vesicles or cells (cancelli) in the filamentous tissue of the ganglion. But he was not enabled by any means, mechanical or chemical, to ascertain their exact natui e. The ganglions are well supplied with blood-vessels, deiived in general from the neighbouring arteries. The intimate distribu- tion is represented by Wutzer to be the following. The artery proceeding to a ganglion gives vessels to the filamentous tissue; and, perforating the proper coat, is immediately ramified into in- numerable minute canals, the first order of which forms vascular nets on the inner surface of the tunic; while the residual twigs penetrate the flocculent texture, and the individual vesicles of the secondary or filamentous matter of the ganglion.* * * ยง This short exposition of the structure of the ganglions shows the mistaken notions of Johnstone, Unzer, Bichat, and others, on the structure and uses of these bodies. 1^, The idea first advanced by Johnstone,f and Unzer,! adopted by Metzger,ยง Hufeland,|| Prochaska,1[ Sue, and Harless,** and afterwards applied with much ingenuity by Bichat, that the ganglions are so many nervous centres or minute brains, is disproved by strict anatomical observa- tion. 2d, That they are connected with the order of involuntary actions, and influence these actions, appears to be the only inference that can at present be admitted regarding them. Ganglions are not observed on any of the nerves proceeding to organs of volun- tary motion. Sensation, circulation, nutrition, and secretion are the functions, over which they preside. 3d, Lastly, we remark, as a circumstance of some importance, that the only difference between a ganglion, and any other part of a nervous chord, is, that in the former the minute nervous filaments appear to be uncovered with neurilema, and lodged in a mass of cellular tissue, which is then inclosed in the neurilematic capsule; while in the latter each ner- vous filament has its appropriate neurilema, and the cellular tissue, instead of being within, is on its exterior, and connects it to the contiguous filaments. * De Corporis Ilumani Gangliorum Fabrica, &c. cap. ii. ยง 41. t Philosophical Transactions, Vol. L1V. LVII. and LX. and Essay, cStc. t J. A. Unzer, Physiologie thieriscber Korper. Leipzig, 1771, p. GG. ยง I. D. Metzger Opuscula Anatomica et Physiolog. Gothte, &c. 1790. II C. W. Hufeland Ideen iiber Pathogcnie, &e. Jena, 1795. H G- Prochaska Lehrsatze der Physiologie, &c. I. ter Band. Wien, 1797. ** J. J. aue, Recherches Physiologiqu.es, &c. Paris, an. vi. German Translation by I. C. F. Harless, 1797, p. 2. Numberg, 1799, p. 3.