444 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. minuteness, a grain,) most of them, excepting the knee- pan, being of the size of a grain or pea. They are confined to the extremities, and are situate chiefly in positions in which they give points of support to the tendons of the flexor muscles. (Tendons of the gemelli, tibialis posticus, peronceus largus, &c.) The pecu- liarity of these bones is, that they are formed invariably in the sub- stance of fibrous organs, as tendons in the case of the knee-pan and the sesamoid bones of the gemelli, tibialis posticus, and peronceus l.; or ligaments in the case of those situate between the metacarpo-pha- langeal and metatarso-phalangeal articulations. With this pecu- liarity their mode of ossification corresponds. At first albuminous or fibro-albuminous, in process of time they are penetrated by cal- careous matter, and present an osseous texture, which, however, is much less firm than that of genuine bones. The period at which this deposition commences and is completed varies in different indi- viduals ; and hence, scarcely in any two persons of the same age is the number of sesamoid bones the same. Though the patella may be ossified at the 20th year, the minute sesamoid bones are some- times not formed before the 30th or even the 40th. In the patella, when ossified, we find a medullary organ. But it is uncertain whether the others acquire this mark of osseous character. These bones resemble the epiphyses in uniting, when divided, by fibro- albuminous matter. acroijJfffTKTq sjfif ionilaib S9ari-+9I0O& ,s93scm b^tin/T’- •• 1 Section II. 'j-IbH?.* irnrt lo son^Jsrbfioo -nil to onfi ?TU0i00 Osteitis ; Lrflammatio.—Though all practical authors admit that bones may be inflamed either spontaneously, or in consequence of injury, yet it is remarkable that none have communicated any precise idea of this process; and while they admit it as a patholo- gical fact, they have too often lost sight of it in one or more of the changes to which it gives rise. To Mr Howship we are in- debted for the first attempt to determine with precision the anato- mical characters and pathological nature of this process. It may at first sight seem doubtful whether genuine bone is sus- ceptible of such a process as inflammation. 4 or though a bone constituted as already described is doubtless an organized substance, and therefore liable to the actions of organized bodies, yet whether a particle of completed bone, as in the compact parts of the cyhn drical bones, becomes itself the seat of inflammation, may seem 3 V