NERVOUS TISSUE. 371 the retina, where they disappear, terminating in smooth mem- brane.* The olfactory, optic, and auditory nerves, Ehrenberg found to consist of varicose or moniliform medullary tubules, directly con- tinued from the moniliform tubes of the white cerebral matter. The moniliform tubules of the olfactory nerves are the thickest known, and vary from ig5th to 405th part of a line in diameter. Those of the optic nerve are smaller, being from 350th to 550th part of a line in diameter; and tubules of the same dimensions are observed in the chiasma or decussation, in which the tubes are re- presented crossing each other ; while the retina consists of articu- lated tubules 2000th part of a line in diameter, traversing medul- lary grains about 355th part of one line in diameter. It contains also mace-like or club-shaped bodies. The structure of the auditory nerve is also peculiar. The sim- ple tubules of this nerve Ehrenberg found considerably thicker than those of the others, and the spheroidal enlargements or ampullulce flatter and less prominent, yet everywhere distinctly seen. In other respects it was similar to the olfactory and optic nerves. The great sympathetic nerve, in like manner, consists of articu- lated cerebral tubules; but there is a mixture of simple cylindri- cal tubes at each extremity. The nerves now specified, the olfactory, optic, auditory, and great sympathetic, are articulated or moniliform nerves. All the other nerves consist, not of articulated or moniliform tubes, but of simple cylindrical tubules, somewhat larger, being from i2oth to iloth part of one line in diameter. These tubules are surrounded and inclosed by vascular networks, and contained within ligamentous or neurilematic partitions; and they contain a medullary substance, semifluid, but capable of expression from them, and coa- gulation within their interior. These are tubulated nerves.-\- The ganglia vary in structure. All consist of articulated or bead-like cerebral tubules, which, either alone, as in the chiasma, form the knot, or, as in all the ganglia of the sympathetic examined, are mingled with large cylindrical nervous tubules, inclosed within a close slender vascular network, between the meshes of which are deposited granules similar to those observed in the retina. * Philosophical Transactions, 1821 and 1824. t Beobachtung ciner aufl'allenden bishcr unbekannte structur des Seelenorgan im Menschen undTliieren ; and Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. XLVITI. p. 282.