GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 426 CHAPTER HI. yellow fibrous system. Lig amenta Flava ,• Ligamentum Nucha. Tissu Fibreux jciune, Beclard. The yellow ligaments (ligamentafiava) which connect the spinous processes of the vertebrae to each other differ considerably from the articular ligaments and the periosteum, and suggested to Beclard the necessity of establishing a particular order of fibrous tissues, to which he applied the denomination of yellow or taiony fibrous sys- tem. Under this he includes also the proper membrane of the ar- teries ; that of the veins and of the lymphatic vessels; the membranes which form excretory ducts; that of the air-passages; the fibrous covering of the cavernous body of the urethra, and perhaps that of the spleen. The actions and occasional distensions of which these parts are the seat require, it is said, a tissue, the resistance and elasticity of which may at once counteract any extraordinary effort, and cause them to resume their original state, when the dis- tending cause ceases to operate. In the lower animals this pur- pose is more conspicuous than in the human subject. The posterior cervical ligament {Jigamentum nucha, Arab.; cervicis, Lat.) coun- teracts the tendency to inclination of the head; and a similar mem- brane strengthens the abdominal parietes, and resists the weight and distending power of the viscera. In the feline tribe, an elastic ligament inserted into the unguinal phalanges retains them ex- tended so long as the muscles do not alter their direction. The shells of the bivalve molluscous animals, as oysters, mussels, &c. are opened by a similar fibrous tissue as soon as the muscles which close them are relaxed. The disposition of the component fibres is the same in the elastic as in the common white fibrous system. Their colour, which is yellow or tawny, is generally more distinct in the dead subject. They are said to be less tenacious, but more elastic than those of any other tissue. In respect to chemical composition, they appear to contain a considerable quantity of fibrinc in a peculiar condition, combined with some albumen and a little gelatine. Their other properties are not very conspicuous. The morbid changes incident to them are quite unknown.