11 DIVISION OF THE TEXTURES. twenty-one to eleven, one of which, the erectile, comprehending the peculiar structure of the cavernous body, the clitoris, the nipple, and the spleen, is not found in the original arrangement of Bichat, hut has been added by MM. Dupuytren and Richerand. A less neat and elegant arrangement is that given by Hippoly- tus Cloquet, who admits in the human body the following fifteen tissues: 1. The cellular; 2. The membranous; 3. The vascular, including blood-vessels, and lymphatics; 4. Bone; 5. Cartilage; 6. Fibro-cartilage; 7. Ligament; 8. Muscle; 9. Tendon; 10. Aponeurosis, or fascia; 11. Nerve; 12. Glandular structure; 13. Follicle; 14. Lymphatic ganglion, or gland; 15. The Viscera. It is evident that the last mentioned term is greatly too vague, and that the structure which it is intended to denote may be either united with several of those already noticed, or is so different or opposite in different situations, that admitting it as a separate tis- sue becomes of no use whatever in a correct classification. Not unlike to the arrangement of MM. Richerand and Dupuy- tren is that proposed by John Frederic Meckel, who looked on the arrangement of Bichat as too detailed, and embarrassed with too many and minute distinctions. According to this anatomist, the medullary system should he united with the cellular; the synovial should be viewed as a modification of the serous system; the pilous and epidermal systems ought not to be separated from the cutane- ous or dermal; and even this last, along with the glandular and mu- cous, ought to be referred to the same general head. According to these principles all the organized substances composing the hu- man body are referred by Meckel to the following ten heads:— Against this arrangement Mayer, professor of anatomy at Bonn, has urged the following objections:—That it is impossible to con- sider the scarf-skin, or cuticle, and the hairs, as of the same or si- milar structure with the cutaneous tissue in general: that glandu- lar structure cannot be regarded as pertaining to the same order with the mucous membranes; that the fibro-cartilages ought nei- ther in this arrangement nor in that of Bichat to be considered as distinct from cartilage; and that in both several parts of the ani- ]. Mucous, or cellular. 6. Fibro-cai'tilaginous. 7. Fibrous. 8. Muscular. 9. Serous. 10. Cutaneous. 2. Vascular. 3. Nervous. 4. Osseous. 5. Cartilaginous.