BRAIN. 281 that it is the effect of the presence of these tumours, and the chronic congestion which they cause, is sufficiently obvious to render super- fluous any minute induction. It is enough to say, that, though not constant, it is a very general effect. (Morgagni, Meckel, Sandi- fort, Powell, Yellowly, Blane, &c.) The morbid change now described was supposed by Morgagni and Lieutaud, to the former of whom it was well known, to be of the nature of gangrene in other parts. This idea, which is also that of Jemina* and of Baillie, has been revived by Dr Abercrom- bie.! Though unwilling to dissent from the opinion of a pathologist distinguished for accurate induction, it appears to me exceedingly doubtful, for the reasons above stated, how far this analogy can be demonstrated. A part of the brain changed as above described is indeed disor- ganized, may be said to be dead, and in this sense the change may be termed gangrene of the brain. But when it is found in different degrees, and in so many different morbid states of the brain, some of them of long continuance, it is difficult to be satisfied that every one of them must be viewed equally as gangrene. In the present work I avoid as much as possible whatever is hypothetical or doubt- ful. Upon this principle I conceive it improper to offer, on the nature of this change, any further opinion than can be collected from the circumstances above stated of its history and connections. One form of softening, nevertheless, there is, which is more justly entitled to the character of gangrene than the others. In a certain proportion of cases the arteries of the brain become steatomatous and opaque and inelastic, or osteo-steatomatous and more or less rigid. Thus the Sylvian artery or its branches, the basilar artery or its branches, the posterior and middle cerebral, and the cerebellic, may all be affected with this transformation. In such circumstances, it is observed that softening comes on very suddenly, and, apparently without any preliminary inflammatory or hemorrhagic stage, pro- ceeds instantly or speedily to complete brown or green-coloured disorganization of a portion of the brain. The entire duration of this form of softening seldom exceeds three or four days. It is “ Aliud etiam cx hoc morbo defuncti caput aperui ; et memini inter cajtera ob- servata substantia* cerebri pulposaj portionem magnitudine nucis avellanee, colore, et consistentia vitiatam, ita ut esset coloris tanc et mollior, non secus ac poma vel pyra cum intus marccsccrc incipiunt. Annon gangnena hujus visceris ? Dc Febre, annis 1783-84. Monteregali Epidcmica, auctore Marco Antonio Jemina, M. I). &c. Apud Brera Syllogon, Tom. X. p. 247. t Pathological and Practical Researches, p. 25.