GASTRIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE—CHRONIC ULCER. bio In the seventh place, perforation or rupture, though the natural termination of these eases, is nevertheless not necessary to the dis- ease. Death may take place by mere peritonitis, without effusion of the contents of the stomach into the abdominal cavity. In this case, the adjoining organs are generally applied accurately over the part of the stomach where the ulcer is situate, and by the ad- hesion effected by the inflammatory exudation, perforation and es- cape of the contents are prevented. No escape took place in foui of the six cases inspected by me. Under such circumstances, there- fore, peritoneal inflammation is rarely general or extensive. When perforation takes place, of course the inflammation is very geneial and intense. This result, however, depends much on the position of the ulcer or ulcers. When they are situate on the anterior part of the stomach, at some distance from the small arch, at which no contiguous organs are applied over the stomach, perforation and escape of the contents of the stomach are very liable to ensue. In the eighth place, it deserves to be particularly noticed, that this disease is greatly more common in females, and especially young females, than in males. Among the six cases seen by my- self three took place in young females; in those that I have seen examined by professional friends they were mostly in females. The disease seems not unfrequent among female domestic servants. The symptoms produced by this disease are not well marked. In all the cases almost which have been recorded, though the pa- tients have not been in perfect health, yet they have been free from any symptom calculated to excite apprehension, and they have been in general suddenly and unexpectedly surprised by death. In the cases which came under my own observation, the indivi- duals had for a considerable time laboured under obscure and im- perfectly marked dyspeptic symptoms, with loss of flesh, and in- creasing languor and weakness. In two of them profuse hemor- rhage had taken place from the stomach at different times,— circumstances which were afterwards explained by the position of the ulcer on the line of the coronary artery. A similar source of hcematemesis was recognized in the case given by M. Goeppert, as occurring in the person of a young man who had suffered from anorexia and tension at the pit of the stomach, but without being- aggravated by pressure. Pain is by no means a constant symptom. In the case given by