759 GLANDULAR TISSUE. Ruysch was confident that the final structure of all glandular organs consists in fasciculi of blood-vessels ramified to an infi- nite degree of minuteness. He admitted, indeed, in 1722, when eighty-five years of age, that sixty years previously he had taught the existence of acini or little glands with membranous cavities, ac- cording to the received opinion. Afterwards, however, by much observation in injection, he became convinced, that these acini are composed of blood-vessels only, and not of little hollow membranes with an outlet.* He allows, nevertheless, that the liver contains acini or acinuli; but repeats his doctrine, that these are not small glands or hollow sacs, but very delicate pulpy vessels.f Ferrein, in tbe middle of the 18th century, called in question both of these doctrines. He maintained that the liver and the cor- tical part of the kidney consist neither of blood-vessels nor of small glands, but of a peculiar substance formed by a wonderful collection of white cylindrical tubes variously folded, which, he contended, he demonstrated manifestly in the kidneys,—which he had seen in the liver and renal capsules, and which he believed he could make known in other glandular organs.:}: Haller has collected under the several heads of the pancreas, the liver, the kidneys, the testes, the mamma, and other glands, the re- sults of the inquiries of different, anatomists to his own time (1777.) In the liver he admits the existence of acini, and he adopts the view of Malpighi, representing them to consist of simple hollow glan- dules collected in clusters ; that these acini are hexagonal; and are not an element but a mass of elements; or, in short, that they are the lobules of the liver enclosed in cellular tissue.§ Each kidney he represents to consist of several little kidneys (ren- cuius); each of which, again, consists of cortical or vascular and medullary or striated matter. || * Opusculum Anatomicum de Fabrica Glandularum in Corpore Ilumano, Continens Bmas Epistolas, Quarum Prior est H. Boerhaave, super hac re, ad Friedericum Ruys- ?7oTl iST/- ?"ySChii-ad, PL Boerhaave’ Q™ Priori responded. Amstelcdami, 1721 et 1/22. ApudRuyschn Opera Omnia, Tomumiv.p. 71. Amsterdam!, 1733 4 to t “ Acini ibi (in hepate) manifesti semper sunt agniti a me ; sed ego tantum dixi' n°n Su"1 f0lli™h Hfombranacei cavi cum emissario, sed quod sint vascula pulposa wnernma. Epistola, p. 75. r * 0bfervations sur la structure des Glandes, et part, des Reins, et du Foi Me- moires de l’Academie Royale des Sciences. Paris, a. 1749. Hist. p. 92. Mem. p. § Elementa Physiologic, Lib. xxvi. Sect. I. § xxvi. xxvii II Elementa, Lib. xxvi. Sect. 1. § vii. and viii.