877 GANGRENE OF THE LIVER. The cause of this lesion is not well understood. Are we to be- lieve that it is an affection originally gangrenous ? or are we to believe that the gangrenous termination is an effect of inflamma- tion ? To me, it appears to be the result rather of inflammation of peculiar intensity, in persons of a certain kind of constitution, than of a gangrenous form of inflammation. The course of phenomena, or rather of the process, seems, in general, in cases of this nature, to be as follows. First, inflammatory action or vascular congestion distends and overloads the vessels of the part, and causes interstitial extravasation of blood, of lymph, and of serum ; secondly, by this the tenacity, pliancy, and elasticity of the texture are destroyed ; it becomes friable, lacerable, and easily softened; its physical pro- perties are altered and impaired; and its vital properties are en- feebled ; thirdly, as this action or inaction continues, the texture of the part is still more completely changed from its normal state; and at length, on any slight increase in the morbid distension the parts, already deprived, in a great degree, of their vital pro- perties, give way; vessels are broken open, and expose their con- tents ; parts lose their cohesion ; and the process of gangrene which is a mixture of the mechanical with the weak vital is&esta’ blished. On the other hand, gangrenous suppuration of the liver may follow the formation of an external gangrenous sore. In the collection of pathological drawings made by the late Dr 1 lomson, is an instance in several respects important. A person attempted to destroy himself, first, by cutting his throat, and after- wards by discharging a pistol at his forehead. Death did not ensue immediately. The wound of the throat mortified; and exfoliation from the frontal bone took place. After death, which took place m about ten days, a large abscess, with ragged, dark-coloured the Hvelr 5 WaS tKl m the Upper part of the lobe of In this remarkable case, we observe the illustration of two Da thological principles, which I have attempted to establish. First the fr js e£ K rrsuppmti * Wane the frontal bone, rendered necessary to eject the dead A Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Liver •m,l r;i; , „ hom.son, M.D., and the private collection of that gentleman ^ Wl>lliam