652 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. parts where the adhesions were most firm and intimate, they were of cartilaginous consistence. The ileum was cut open longitudinally, and the true state of the disease was then seen. At intervals of from six to eight or nine inches the mucous membrane of the ileum presented large irregular ulcerated open- ings, penetrating directly through all the coats to the ’peritonaeum, then from the peritonaeum of the corresponding adherent portion of ileum, through the coats of that portion to the mucous membrane. By these openings direct passages had been formed from one por- tion of bowel through the coats into the attached portion. These openings were in shape mostly elliptical or oval, with the long diameter corresponding to the axis of the bowel. Their edges were ragged and irregular ; and while the intestinal tissues around them were thickened and cartilaginous, the capacity of the bowel was much diminished. In size the openings varied from half-an-inch to one inch or one inch and a-half in the long diameter. Their breadth was from half-an-inch to three-fourths. The number of these openings was considerable. There were at least 20, and probably more. On examining the lines of adhesion by which they were con- nected, tubercular matter was visible both at the peritoneal and mucous surface, and in several parts of the peritonaeum small tu- bercular bodies, white and opaque, were deposited. It was not easy to say whether these bodies had commenced at the peritoneal or at the mucous surface. They were in general covered by peritonaeum, and they were as distinct at the mucous surface as at the serous. A case similar to this is given by Dr George Gregory.* An important inquiry suggested by cases of this class is to de- termine where the ulceration originates ; whether at the mucous or at the peritoneal surface of the bowel. Ihe point is not one of very easy determination. It seems, on the one hand, most natural to think that the ulcera- tion began at the mucous surface. To me these ulcerated open- ings appear to be in the site of the agminatcd patches of Peyer. These patches were, I infer, originally penetrated or infiltrated with tubercular matter. They had then proceeded to softening and ul- ceration, destroying of course the mucous and other tissues slowly • Observations on the Scrofulous Inflammation of the Pcritonamm, &c. Med. Chir. Trans, xi. p. 258.