BONE. 481 Though the sudden rectangular turn or change of direction had at first sight the appearance of a fracture which had been after- wards consolidated, yet there was no reason to think, from the his- tory and circumstances of the case, that this injury was the cause of the malformation. The peculiar bad configuration of these ribs had existed from the moment of birth, and appeared to have at- tracted little attention from the relatives. It was found, as already stated, on both sides of the chest; and it was impossible, in making sections of several of the ribs, to discover any of those marks, by which the existence of a previous fracture is recognized. The state of the cranial sutures is less uncommon than that of the ribs. For I believe it may be regarded as a variety of that malformation which has been distinguished by some authors as opening of the sutures. Portal especially, in speaking of the oc- currence of this phenomena in young subjects, remarks, that though rare, it is occasionally observed to the age of two or three years ; but adds, that at a more advanced age it is uncommon to find the sutures separated, in consequence of the operations of an internal cause.* This child had been destroyed by bronchitis. But all the other internal organs were sound. On the cause of this deficiency in the bones of the chest and head it is difficult to offer even a conjecture. It was the opinion of se- veral relatives of the mother, that the peculiar misshaping of the chest had been caused by tight lacing and excessive compression dur- ing pregnancy. To the operation of this cause being adequate, the chief objection is the fact, that it is difficult to imagine any degree of compression of this kind, which would not rather have caused the death of the child.f In 1828 M. Dupuytren published in the Repertoire Generate d' Anatomic, with four illustrative cases, an account of a malforma- tion or deformity in the bones of the chest, not dissimilar. This he represents to consist in a depression more or less considerable of the bones of the chest, in proportional prominence of the sternum, of the belly anteriorly, and of the vertebral column posteriorly. In infants affected by this deformity, the sternum projects forward like the keel of a vessel; the spinal column rises like the back of an ass; and the ribs are not only flattened but depressed towards the * Anatomie Meclicale, Tome i. p. 96. t Account of an Instance of Malformation in some of the Bones of the Skeleton. B> David Craigie, M. D. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. XXXII. p. ol. Edinburgh, 1829. ii h