618 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. commonly they are large, as large, that is, as a crown piece or a half-crown piece. Their edges are distinctly circumscribed.* In cases in which sulphuric acid is swallowed and death follows speedily, the acid is not only absorbed by the blood but transudes through the tissues; and the peritoneal covering presents a distinct acid reaction. The acid in like manner acts on the concave sur- face and anterior edge of the liver, rendering it hard and friable; on the transverse arch of the colon, contracting that bowel and rendering its tissues hard and thick; on the duodenum, contracting its calibre and rendering the coats firm and thick; and acting in a similar manner on the adjoining folds of jejunum and ileum. It occasionally happens that a portion of the stomach is dissolved and corroded, forming a ragged irregular opening; and the con- tents escape into the abdominal cavity. This happened to a woman who had committed double suicide. She had swallowed oil of vi- triol, apparently without its having been known. She then cut her throat with a knife. She was supposed to have died of the effects of the wound in the throat; and certainly vessels enow were di- vided to cause the loss of much blood; and blood was found, as is often the case in examples of cut throat, in the bronchial tubes. But besides this, there was in the large arch of the stomach a large ragged irregular-shaped and dissolved opening, which presented all round the usual charring and induration caused by sulphuric acid.f When the mineral acids do not immediately kill,'they cause in- flammation of the parts touched. The oesophageal epidermis is cast off, and the whole surface of that tube suppurates and secretes lymph and granulates. The mucous membrane of the stomach in like manner suppurates, or sloughs and suppurates, secreting lymph and granulation. Under this process the patient’s life may be pro- tracted from five or six weeks to two months, with great suffering, distress, and wasting. But death at length takes place, and the parts are found in the state now described. The effects of nitric acid on the stomach are very similar to those * Account of a Case of Suicidal Poisoning by means of Concentrated Sulphuric Acid, with notices of other cases. By David Craigie, M. D. &c. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. liii. p. 406. Edinburgh, 1840. -)• Cases of Poisoning by Arsenic, Sulphuric Acid, and Muriate rof Mercury. By Alexander Watson, F. R. C. S. E. Ibid. Vol. liii. p. 401. 3