295 brain. by Portal, that serous infiltration and effusion invariably arise from the same state of the vessels as hemorrhage ;* and this inference has since been confirmed by the observations of Dr Cheyne, Dr Abercrombie, of M. Serres, and others. In short, if from any cause the circulation within the head becomes unusually slow, and the vessels of the brain become inordinately distended, either red blood or serous fluid is poured out from the extremities of the ar- teries. The latter process, if we admit the testimony of Chesel- den,-]' Morgagni,J and Willan,§ takes place in the slow and gra- dual drowsiness and stupefaction which distinguish the form of the disease termed lethargy ; (veterans.)|| The cause of the symptoms, however, is not the effusion, as Willan imagined, but the general vascular distension and injection from which the effusion arises. Hemorrhage, nevertheless, takes place in a considerable propor- tion of cases. Howship says in nine of ten ; but this is evidently a general assertion founded on no accurate elements. From the dis- tended vessels blood escapes, though whether by exhalation or by actual rupture is not agreed; and, forcing its way through the cerebral substance, breaks it down, and forms a sort of hollow or cavern, in which it coagulates. If the quantity be considerable ; if it be effused suddenly, and in certain parts of the brain; (optic thalamus, annular protuberance, brain-limbs, and medulla oblon- gata;) if the cerebral injection continues, notwithstanding the dis- charge and the use of remedies, complete coma very soon termi- nates in death; and on dissection more or less blood is found in some part of the substance of the brain, and the vessels are much, sometimes exceedingly injected with fluid blood. When the effusion is not copious, or dependent upon very ge- neral injection of the cerebral vessels, nor take place suddenly, or in a vital part of the brain; or if the injection is thereby, or bv other means moderated; then further changes take place, and con- tinue until the natural structure of the organ is so much altered that life can no longer be continued. The effused blood, both qucevc morlmm ipmm, non prodvxere, attamen production augent." Rationis Medendi, Pars i. p. 138. Lugduni Bat. 1780. * Sur la Nature ct le Traitement de Plusieurs Maladies, &c. Tome I. p. 280 ; et Sur l’Apoplexie, et Sur les Moyens de la prevenir. PariB, 1811. Tome II. p. 21G. + The Anatomy of the Human Body. Book iii. chap. 14. X Epist. vi. § Reports on the Diseases in London. By Robert Willan, M. D. &c. 1799, p. 338, 8vo edit. 1821. 11 Thom® Willis, De Anima Brutorum, Pars Pathol. Cap. 14.