NATURE OF KIRRIIOSIS. 899 adopts, because he found 21 instances of kirrhosis among a series of 55 instances of disease of the heart. Granulated liver is doubt- less found often associated with disease of the heart; but often also the latter disease is without the former, while the nutmeg state of the liver is present. Again, it is not doubtful that kirrhosis is often associated with vascular congestion and irritation of the stomach, duodenum, and jejunum ; and it is almost certain, that the mode in which the habitual use of spirituous drinks operates in causing kirrhosis, is partly owing to this irritation, partly to absorption into the abdominal venous system. When kirrhosis is associated with renal granulation, it seems less reasonable to ascribe the one of these affections to the presence of the other, than to ascribe both to the same cause. They also ap- pear to be similar forms of degeneration of the glandular tissue in different glands. It is not doubtful that kirrhosis is quite adequate of itself to cause death. It must nevertheless be allowed, that it is often found associated with other lesions which are usually fatal; i’or instance, chronic bronchitis, hypertrophy and valvular disease of the heart, and disease of the kidney, occasionally continued fever, and, in a few instances, pulmonary consumption. When fatal without these diseases, it is invariably found terminating in incurable ascites. It could not be expected that so great a change in the structure of the liver should be without effects on the health and general sys- tem. let, in the early stage, it rarely produces conspicuous symp- toms. Kirrhosis is, indeed, an insidious disease, causing little dis- turbance until the liver is altogether changed in structure. The liver is seldom so much enlarged in the early stage as to give rise to manifest and palpable swelling; and there is at this time also little or no serous fluid within the abdomen. Pain is not felt, at least not mentioned by patients; and all that can be observed is a feeble and irregular state of the digestive function, denoted by want of appetite, thirst, constipation, a sense of heat at times in the palms of the hands, and general feebleness and languor. Nutrition is manifestly impaired. As the disease advances the liver is enlarged, and continues so for some time. Then it is diminished; and" no tumour may be felt in the hypochondriac region. Bile is evidently not secreted; for the motions are usually paler than in their normal state. Yet jaundice is an occurrence so rare that I have never seen it in a distinct and well-marked form. All that is observed is a peculiar dingy brownish or sallow