965 MORBID STATES OF THE MAMMA SKIRRHUS. in the breast. The change is most likely confined to the galacto- phorous tubes. § 10. Skirrhus.—In no organ has skirrhous structure been more frequently studied than in the mamma. Yet information is not very precise and presents several discordant points. a. It seems certain that different forms even of morbid structure belonging to skirrhus may affect the breast. In one set of cases, the gland is affected with hardness in lumps or masses, to which the skin is drawn down in a shrivelled corrugated manner, and ad- heres over various points of the surface. Internally, white, firm, fibrous lines are seen intersecting each other through the gland; and within these is deposited a softer gray-coloured matter, which presents numerous minute irregular cells and granules, from the surface of which oozes a serous fluid. The nipple is retracted and introverted. In one of these tumours of the breast Vogel found the two ele- ments now mentioned united in the following manner. In the centre or middle of the tumour were longitudinal bands apparently cylindrical, thick at middle, but pointed at each end, not straight, but slightly contorted. These were crowded very closely in the centie; but at the margin where their pointed extremities terminat- ed, they were more apart. In the interstices between these firm longitudinal chords were deposited granules spherical, spheroidal, or pyriform, which were cellular, and had nuclei and nucleoli. Be- sides these, were very minute granules, which seemed to be fat.* b. In another set of cases the same matter is deposited in a tuber- cular form, and assuming the appearance of irregular masses of reddish-gray coloured hardish tubercles aggregated together, giving the whole the aspect of the pancreas. According to Muller, the gray structure of simple scirrhus of the breast bears only a remote resemblance to cartilage. Whitish ‘ chords are not regularly observed. Skirrhus of the mamma pre- sents sometimes at various points fibres, in which may be recognized a cand containing a colourless, or whitish, or yellowish content. .If6 fhlte fibres may be formed from the thickened walls of the milk-tubes and lymphatic vessels. In skirrhus of parts not glandu- • JiM Vogd leones Histologioj Pathologic*. Tabula xxv. Lipsi*, 1843 he above description was written from personal examination of a number of skir- "erc proi Th° °n,j' ** •he engraving of Voge, bJL , ESlT * —