MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—TUBERCLES. 1023 from collapsing. The size of these bodies in this stage is about that of a pin-head, rising to a millet-seed or a grain of mustard- seed. These bodies, now described, have been, in this state, re- garded as the miliary tubercles of Bayle and Laennec, the dissemi- nated tubercles of Gendrin, and the simple tubercles of Dr Lombard and Dr Home. But this does not appear to be established with unquestionable certainty. One variety, at least, of the miliary tubercle, I am inclined to think, is formed in the filamentous tissue of the lungs; and certainly differs widely from the arrangement and appearance of the bodies now mentioned. A good method of demonstrating the origin of the most usual forms of pulmonary tubercles, is by observing what takes place in lobular pneumonia. In this disease inflammation attacks the lung in individual lobules, perhaps beginning first like vesicular bron- chitis, that is, affecting the terminations of the bronchial tubes, and the aii cells, and perhaps in a slight degree the submucous fila- mentous tissue, or the parenchyma of the lung in which these vesi- cles aie imbedded. The result of this inflammation is effusion within the vesicles of a species of soft semifluid matter, intermediate between albumen and gelatine, hut which undergoes coagulation, and thereby fills the vesicles with an equal number of small round- ish bodies, of moderate consistence, but which eventually become firm, and at length hard, while their mutual proximity aggregates them together into small hard masses, isolated, and limited to each pulmonary lobule, or part only of a lobule. As the disease proceeds, it affects the whole lobule, and its investing tissue or capsule, giv- ing it the appearance of a hard knotty mass, irregular in shape and figure, and surrounded by natural pulmonic tissue. This disease may either affect one or two, or many lobules simultaneously and successively; and in proportion to the extent over which it is dif- fused, the lung is occupied by bodies having all the characters of tuberc es, and which eventually constitute pulmonary tubercles. In this state, these masses, when divided, are firm, of a bluish- gray colour, and consist of minute portions aggregated together, m a confused manner, so as to form a mass not quite homogeneous, but firmer than the surrounding lung. In this state, before these masses have become softened, they constitute what has been named by Laennec crude or yellowish tubercles {tubercula cruda), agglo- merated tubercle by Gendrin, multiple tubercle by Lombardf and aggregated tubercle by Dr Home. These masses vary in size,