GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 808 ber about twelve or fourteen, but sometimes rising to thirty, which are named vasa efferentia. These ducts, which are arranged in co- nical shape, and hence named coni vasculosi, run straight for the space of one or two lines, forming convolutions which become nu- merous and close as the vessels recede from the testis. Lauth, es- timating the average length at 7 inches 4 lines, and their number at thirteen, makes the united length to be nearly 8 feet. After form- ing the vascular tubes, already mentioned, they successively join one single duct, the canal of the epididymis, at irregular intervals, the intermediate spaces of the duct varying in length from half-an- inch to 6 inches. These efferent ducts are more slender than the canal of the epididymis, and frequently give way under the pres- sure of the column of mercury. While the vascular cones form a round bulky mass, which has been named the head, or globus major, of the epididymis, the con- volutions made by the efferent ducts form the body and tail, to which also the name of globus minor has been applied. A shut canal or duct, usually attached to the tail of the epidi- dymis, and with a blind appendage or termination, constitutes what has been named the vasculum aberrans. The length of this duct varies from 1 to 12 or 14 inches, and it is always more or less con- voluted. It is not constant; nor is its use perfectly known. Mr Curling infers that it serves no particular purpose, and that it is a mere diverticulum, or process similar to those observed in the in- testinal canal. The canal of the epididymis as it approaches the level of that body becomes larger, and forms then the vas deferens or excretory duct of the testicle. The course, direction, and termination of this tube are well known. The spermatic artery or arteries, or those which supply the testis, arise either from the aorta immediately below the renal artery, or come off in one trunk, common to it and the renal artery, a mode of origin connected with the site of the organ in the foetus, when it is placed near the kidney on each side of the spinal column. From the point now specified they descend behind the peritoneum, form- ing many convolutions and tortuous windings, obliquely across the psoas muscle and ureter, to which each artery gives branches, and, entering the inguinal canal by the internal ring, they are joined with the chord and reach the gland. Their subsequent distribu- tion is described by Sir Astley Cooper in the following manner.