1064 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. say is, that the facts carefully examined render it highly probable, that this obstruction and impediment in the orifice of the pulmo- nary artery is the incipient phenomenon in the series of changes, in short, must he regarded as the main cause of those imperfections, to which the name of malformations is applied. While this impedi- ment is in any manner formed at an early period of foetal exist- ence, the other changes with kyanosis follow as matter of course. The first two defects, open foramen ovale, and imperfect septum, are the most usual. These are the immediate consequences of arrest of development in the formation of the heart. In the early period of foetal existence, it is known, that the heart consists of two chambers only, that is, one auricle and one ventri- cle. The auricle, in the natural progress of formation, begins about the end of the second or the beginning of the third month to be divided into two portions,—a right and left,—by one thin mem- brane proceeding from its posterior surface forwards, and another thin membrane advancing backwards from its anterior surface. These have crescentic margins, which in the natural course meet and pass, overlying or imbricating each other, so as at the period of birth,' or soon after, generally to complete the partition. When however, from obstruction or impediment in the orifice of the pul- monary artery, the blood which enters the right ventricle cannot obtain by that vessel and the ditetus arteriosus, a ready outlet, its copious passage from the right to the left division of the auricle continues uninterrupted and undiminished, and the membranous folds are not only prevented from meeting and overlapping each other, but their increase is suddenly stopped, and the foramen ovale remains unclosed. The septum of the ventricles is a growth partly from the poste- rior wall of the common single ventricle, partly from the anterior wall, beginning at the apex and proceeding in growth towards the base. In the early period of foetal existence, the blood which enters the right ventricle, and which is supposed to be chiefly that which comes from the head, neck, and superior extremities, enters also the left, and there partly proceeds to the aorta without, it is be- lieved, entering the pulmonary artery. There is at least nothing to prevent this, as the right ventricle communicates directly with the left at the base till the seventh week, when the opening is still large. As intra-uterine life advances, however, provision is made for stopping this by the gradual growth ot the septum towards the base; and at the end of the second month the septum is usually 4