376 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. nerve of motion. He also showed that the seventh pair, or late- ral facial, presides over sensation and motion in the functions of the head, face, and neck, but mostly over motion. In 1821, Sir Charles Bell undertook to establish the principle, that of the two nervous trunks distributed to the face, viz. the trige- minus, or fifth cerebral nerve, and the portio dura, or seventh cere- bral nerve, the lateral facial, the former presides over the sensations or common sensibility of the head and face; that it also possesses branches going to the muscles of mastication; whereas the latter nerve regulates the muscular motions of the lips, nostrils, and velum palati, and especially in associated action with the motions of respiration. About the same time Magendie claimed the merit of showing experimentally the fact of the distinction between nerves minister- ing to sensation and nerves ministering to motion, and of proving that, of the double row of nervous roots issuing in parallel lines from the lateral regions of the spinal chord, the anterior are destined for motion, and the posterior for sensation. Lastly, Mr Mayo, partly by dissection, partly by experimental inquiry and reasoning, arrived at the conclusion that almost all the branches of the large or gangliophorous portion of the trifacial nerves are nerves of sensation, while those of the small fasciculus, which is void of ganglion, are nerves of motion. In this manner, by successive steps, has been established one of the most important doctrines on the functions of the nervous chords in modern physiology; and its justice has been confirmed by the labours of many observers. Tbe distinction is most clearly proved by the original experiment of Sir Charles Bell. If the spine he laid open, especially in a cold-blooded animal, as a frog, and the posterior or gangliophorous roots alone he irritated, no movement is produced; but the moment the anterior roots are touched, the extremities are agitated by active convulsive motions. Of the cerebral nerves, the first or olfactory, the second or optic, and the eighth or auditory, are pure nerves of proper sensation, and are distributed to the sensitive parts of the eye, the nasal cavi- ties, and the cochlea and labyrinth respectively. The third, fourth, and part of the sixth, or abducent, are motific nerves connected with the movements of the eye. The fifth or trifacial is a very pe- culiar nerve. The gangliophorous, or rather plexiform part of it, communicates with all the organs of proper sensation,—the eye, the ear in a small degree, the nasal cavities largely, and the palate,