GENERAL ANI) PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 798 any fact which could suggest or establish the direct connection of these parts of the kidneys. In the triton, on the other hand, there are observed in the parts of the kidney specified, at pretty regular distances from each other, shut terminations of the uriniferous tubes, which become dilated in the flask-like shape, and make themselves distinguished from the cy- lindrical tubes by greater transparency. Before the transition into these dilated parts, the uriniferous tube appears to be sometimes contracted ; yet this is by no means uniform. Normally only one uriniferous tube passes into this sort of dilated portion ; sometimes, however, two uriniferous tubes are connected with the same dilated portion, by which the objection of an illusion taking place thereby is completely set aside, viz. that by pressure the contents of one canal may be forced, without impediment, through the dilated por- tion into the second canal, and impelled onwards in it. In such circumstances also, the designation may be, instead of a closed ter- mination of the uriniferous tube, rather a general dilatation in the course of such a tube. Of the presence of an epithelium with actively vibrating cilia, immediately before the transition of the uriniferous tube into the flask-shaped expansion, and in the cervix or collar of the latter, as also in a considerable space of the inner wall of the same, Bidder states that he has completely convinced himself. The representa- tion of Mr Bowman, that the vibratory epithelium layer of the uri- niferous canals is prolonged into the expanded portion, progres- sively diminishing in thickness, he finds to be quite correct; but he observes, that not in every instance can we expect, even in the triton, to be able to recognise this circumstance with the desired certainty. He had inspected many preparations before he was able for the first time to be satisfied of the accuracy of the observation of Mr Bowman. The third part, or even the half of the circum- ference of the flask-shaped expansion presents this ciliated epithe- lium. If the same appears sometimes to be still more expanded, this depends only on the circumstance, that higher up detached ci- liated cells are thrust deeper into the cavity. On the other hand, the statement which Mr Bowman makes in denying any epithelium to the rest of the walls of the cavity, Bid- der finds to be inaccurate. He finds here a simple thin plate-form- ed epithelium, which appears in pretty regular polygonal forms ; and if this do not appear equally evident in every case, the defi-