GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 66 most acute, intense, and rapid form. But it sometimes happens that it is slower in progress and less intense in severity ; and in this case it may be said to be subacute or chronic. Thus I have seen an instance in which the disease attacked the adipose tissue of the arm, and though attended with well-marked fever, yet without the overpowering symptoms of prostration so often observed,— and advancing so slowly as to admit of the employment of local depletion by leeches, and the effect of antimonials and purgatives, so as eventually to terminate in resolution. The foregoing account may communicate some idea of the seat of this disease, of its effects, and of its dangerous tendency. I have yet to offer a few remarks on its nature, its pathological peculiari- ties, and the causes on which its developement may seem to depend. Some of these points I have indeed anticipated. But others are entitled to more systematic examination. The most remarkable circumstance in the pathological history of Pimditis, is the extreme rapidity with which it generally proceeds to sero-purulent infiltration and disjunctive destruction. In several cases this has been known to take place within thirty-six hours from the appearance of the first symptoms of uneasiness. In others it occurs in the course of about seventy-two hours; and in very few cases is this event protracted beyond the fourth day. Very nearly at the same rate may be estimated the fatality of the disease. Wherever the inflammation is very extensive, and es- pecially if it occur in middle-aged or elderly corpulent persons, death is very likely to ensue in the course of the third, or at most, the fourth day. In young and robust persons, on the contrary, and in whom the adipose tissue is not much loaded, the disease is slower in progress, and less frequently fatal in termination. The most rapidly fatal case which I think I have yet witnessed occurred in a male patient in the Royal Infirmary this season. He had been under treatment for slight diarrhoea, which disappeared under the use of chalk mixture and opiates, alternated with gentle eccopro- tics, and the use of nutritious diet, and for several days expressed himself well. He was in his usual health at the visit preceding the last day of his life; but in the afternoon, about four, he was at- tacked with pain of the left thigh and iliac region, which speedily became swelled, hot, red, and livid, and presented a large detach- ment of the cuticle, containing livid serum (phlyctana.) j'^Ncxt