CEREBRAL SEROUS MEMBRANE—HiEMATHORAX. <60 + Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. iv. p. 330, Art. xxvi. S 3. Itisfurther uninteresting confirmation of the view above given, that hemorrhage of the same nature may take place from the arac 1- noid of the membranes of the spinal chord, and give rise to Sinn ar symptoms, though modified by the situation of the effusion. Ui this variety of arachnoid hemorrhage, an instance is quoted y Sauvages from Duverney, under the title of asphyxia spinalis ; but the best examples are those recorded by M. Chevalier m the 3 volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, and that by Sir A. Cooper in his work on Dislocation. In these cases blood, coagulated and fluid, was found in the spinal canal between the membranes, and the vessels of the membranes were inordinately loaded. § 4. Pleurcemia ; hcemathorax.—On this form of hemorrhage, instances of which are recorded by Morgagni and Lieutaud, which has been well described by Merat and Laennec,it is unnecessary to say more. Merat informs us that this hemorrhage proved fatal to Professor Mahon. ' § 5. Hannacardia, or hemorrhage from the pericardium, has been not less overlooked than the other bloody discharges of the serous membranes. In the few instances which have been recorded, it has generally been ascribed to laceration or rupture of the auricles, venous sinuses, or organs of the large vessels, allowing the blood contained to escape and distend the pericardium. In the instances to which I now advert, the most minute and diligent search wras in- adequate to detect either rupture, laceration, or minute orifices by which blood could escape ; and it must therefore be inferred, that it issues from the membrane by the process of exhalation. Of this singular hemorrhage, four distinct and authentic cases are recorded. In the first, by Dr Alston, three pounds of coagu- lated blood and bloody serum were taken from the pericardium. When the inner surface of the pericardium, and the external sur- face of the heart were carefully cleansed by sponges, no aperture of any of the large vessels could be discovered; “ but on pressing the heart bloody serum oozed from many small orifices on its surface, and principally near its basis.”f The second case, by Dr Thomson of Worcester, is similar in the quantity and kind of blood effused, and in the impossibility of tracing it to rupture or open vessel.^ In the third case, by Mr Joseph Hooper, about five pints of fluid blood perfectly free from coayula, were found in the pericardium, in which no vestige of rupture could, after the most careful exami- * Journal dc Medecine, Tome ix. p. 132. t Medical Essays and Observations, Vol. vi. p. 111. Art. Ivi.