GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 502 4 The chemical properties of raucous membranes are completely unknown. The analysis of the fluid secreted by them has been executed by Fourcroy, Berzelius, and others, hut is foreign to the subject of this work. The mucous membranes are most liberally supplied with blood by vessels which are both large and numerous. This is proved not only by the phenomena of injections, hut by the red colour of which many of their divisions are the seat. This coloration, as well as the injectibility, is not indeed uniform ; for in certain regions mu- cous surfaces are pale or light blue : in others their redness is con- siderable. Thus, in those regions in which the mucous membranes coalesce with the periosteum, forming fibro-mucous membranes, e. g. in the facial sinuses, the tympanal cavity and the mastoid cells, the colour is pale-blue, or approaching to light-lilac. In the bladder, in the large intestines, in the excretory ducts, in general, though pale, this colouring becomes more vivid. In the pulmonic mucous mem- brane it is a slate-blue, verging to pale pink. In the stomach, duo- denum, small intestines, and the vagina, it becomes still more marked. In the uterus it varies according to the period or the in- tervals of menstruation. If these vessels be examined in the gastro-enteric mucous mem- brane, in which they are probably most numerous, they are found to consist of an extensive net-work of capillaries divided to an in- finite degree of minuteness, mutually intersecting and spreading over the upper or outer surface of the mucous corion. I his vas- cular net-work, though demonstrated by Ruysch, Albinus, Haller, and Bichat, has been very beautifully represented in the delinea- tions of Bleuland, who thinks he has traced their minute ramifica- tions into the villi, as above stated. These minute vessels are de- rived from larger ones, which creep through the submucous cel- lular tissue, and which are observed to penetrate the mucous coiion to be finally distributed at its exterior surface. The substance of this membrane itself appears to receive few or no vessels. It is well known, that the vessels which supply the mucous surfaces, enter between the folds of the serous membranes, at which they are in t ie form of considerable trunks. Having penetrated between the fo s of these membranes, they divide in the subserous cellular tissue into branches, the size of which is considerable ; and here they form those numerous anastomotic communications which constitute t e