GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 512 or at least it is attended with some degree of this process, though in the chronic form. In some instances, this chronic inflammation is obviously the immediate cause of the derangement of secretion: but in other instances, the disordered secretion continues after the inflammation subsides. The former is observed in the Greek le- prosy {Lepra,) and the scaly tetter, (Psoriasis,) in both of which the formation of the morbid opaque scales is preceded and attended by a red inflamed state of the corion taking place in minute spots. It is less obvious in dandriflf, (Pityriasis,) in which the surface of the corion, though dry, harsh, and rough, is not particularly red or vascular, and which, therefore, appears to exemplify the latter statement. The fish-skin eruption (Ichthyosis,) is in general so chronic, that it is difficult to say, whether it is or is not attended with any degree of the inflammatory process; but when its com- mencement can be traced, it is generally possible to recognize marks of inflammation of the outer surface of the corion. ‘ § 5. Cutaneous inflammation originally affecting the outer surface of the corion, circumscribed, definite, or punctuate, producing effusion of fluid, first pellucid, afterwards slightly opaque, with elevation of cuticle, with or without further affection of the corial tissue. Inflammation may be developed in many minute points of the corion simultaneously, and, continuing limited to these points with- out spreading, may terminate in each in the formation of a pellu- cid fluid, afterwards becoming more or less opaque. These may either be confined to the outer surface of the corion, without affect- ing its substance, or beginning originally at the surface, may thence affect its substance. a. The individual points appear first like a common rash, with general redness of the skin, sometimes like pimples or minute ele- vations, with a good deal of redness surrounding them. After some hours, a white pearly point appears at their summits, while the surrounding redness diminishes in breadth, so as to form a mere circle or hoop {areola,) which, if minutely examined, is found to consist of a zone of vessels, circumscribing the inflammatory pro- cess, and forming in their centre the fluid which gives the elevation the white appearance. After 12, 20, or 30 hours more, accor- ding to circumstances, the white pearly appearance extends, as- sumes a tint of yellow, and is depressed on the summit, indicating the advancement of the process of circumscribed inflammation. 11 the course of two or three days, there is detached a thin crust oi