BRAIN. 249 important place; and their connection and relative situation render them much more interesting, than they are usually made in works of descriptive anatomy. Connected before and on the outside to the striated body by means of the double semicircular chord (cen- trum semicircuiare geminum, Vieussens,) each optic eminence pre- sents four free surfaces,—the upper, the inner, the posterior, and the lower. The upper, the first, is gently rounded and of white colour. Its figure and limits are not easily defined. The outer margin is bounded by the circular band, which even passes on an- terior to it, so as to form its boundary in that direction also. Be- hind, it is less distinctly limited, unless by the appearance of a con- siderable prominence, which has been generally named the posterior tubercle of the optic couch. The inner margin of the upper sur- face is most distinctly marked by a small sharp gray line, which, beginning insensibly at the anterior part of the body, becomes more distinct as it extends backwards, and is ultimately found to bend gently toward the median plane. There it unites with a similar elevated line of the opposite optic eminence; and to the point of union is attached a small conical body with a minute point, of a gray colour, and of a shape like that of the pine-apple. This is the object improperly termed pineal gland; (glandula pine alls, eon- arium\ Die Zirbel-driise; Reil); and the minute linear emi- nences or tracts, which form the inner edge of the upper optic sur- face, have been named peduncles of the pineal gland. The inner surface of the optic couch or chamber presents nothing important, save the small portion of soft cerebral matter, which unites it to the similar surface of the opposite body. Its posterior edge, however, is terminated by the cerebral limb of that side; and the lower edge meets that of the opposite one, and is connected to it by a portion of brain, which, examined in this manner, has received no name, but forms the lower part of the middle ventricle. The portion of brain which corresponds to it on the outside (base of the brain) has been named the bridge of Tarin. (Pons Tarim.') This is the tri- angular space between the limbs of the brain which has been called by Yicq-D’Azyr the pit of the oculo-muscular nerves. It may be named the triangular intercrural hollow. The posterior surface of the optic eminence is the most impor- tant, but the least understood. It is so intimately connected with the inferior, that in description they cannot be easily distinguished. Santorini, I believe, was the first who observed that the posterior