BONE. 459 and after death the shaft or diaphysis of the os femoris was found very thick, rough, irregular, and with a large hole and cavity pass- ing into the interior of the hone. He is the first author who speaks of reproduction of the bone. Louis appears to have first applied the epithet nekrosis; but Cho- part and David were the first who directed the attention of surgeons to the process of regeneration ; and about the same time Troja and David, and afterwards Blumenbach, Koeler, Macdonald, and De- sault, investigated the manner in which this is effected. Meanwhile Andrew Bonn, who published in 1785 an account of the diseased bones contained in the museum of Hovius, gave six examples of the disease, sometimes without, sometimes with attempts at reproduction of bone. In the cases in which repro- duction took place, the usual phenomena of great and extensive deposition of bone round the site of the old bone, with much irre- gularity of figure and thickness, perforations in the remains of them, on the body of the new osseous matter, and fragments of mortified bone, ulcerated, and showing traces of havingbeen subjected to maceration in purulent matter. His general conclusion deserves attention. “By these various instances,” says Bonn, “from PlateXV. to Plate XXIII. it is proved, that by a uniform law of nature, a bone diseased and mortified is separated from the living bone, by a notch, \crena,~\ or ulcerated depression, and by the successive growth of membranous matter which is eventually converted into bone.”* Two circumstances in the history of nekrosis merit attention ; first, the cause of the death of the bone ; and, second, the agent of its reproduction. I have already stated inflammation of the me- dullary web to be the cause of the former; and this I conceive to be proved not only by the phenomena of the disease, but more directly by the experiments of Troja, David, and Macdonald, who have performed experiments of the same description. From these I experiments it may be inferred, that suppurative destruction or death of the medullary web is necessarily followed by death of the surrounding bone. The same experiments, with the relative situation of the new bone, unequivocally prove that the periosteum and its vesselsare the agents of reproduction. W hether by accident or spontaneously the medul- lary web is destroyed, if the periosteum be uninjured, it becomes thick, swollen, and highly vascular ; bony matter in the fluid form * Andrew Bonn Descriptio Thesauri Ossium Morbosorum Hoviani. Lipaite, 178-1 Tabula, 1785, 1789. 1