413 TENDON. A species of flattened tendons, to which the name of aponeurosis has been given, may justly be united with this tissue. The best examples are in the aponeurotic or tendinous expansion of the ex- ternal oblique muscle of the abdomen, the aponeurotic part of the occipito-frontal muscle of the head, and the upper or broad end of the tendo-Achillis. The anatomical structure and the chemical pro- perties of each of these varieties of animal substance are quite simi- lar, and somewhat different from that which has been termed fascia. Section II. In tendon inflammation is rarely spontaneous, and is generally the result of wound, tear, bruise, twist, wrench, or burn, when the effects vary according to the nature of the injury. Simple division of tendon may unite without much difficulty, though the medium of union appears to be filamentous tissue with some gelatino-albu- minous matter. In laceration complete reunion will depend upon the extent of the injury. That of the tendo-Achillis is the most frequent. I have seen complete rupture of the extensor tendon of the middle finger unite in the course of four months without per- ceptible trace of the accident, and with complete restoration of the functions of the finger in about four or five months more. Twists or wrenches of the joints often injure not only tendons, but liga- ments, fasciae, and even cartilage, and occasion inflammation of all these textures at once. Of this the injury termed sprain is an ex- ample. Tendinous texture readily sloughs under inflammation, either spontaneous or from injury. In whitloe the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers are often killed and thrown off by ul- ceration ; and when tendons are injured by burns or gunshot wounds death of their texture is almost invariable. In this state tendon loses its silvery white appearance and lustre, assumes a dull leaden gray aspect, and becomes thick and doughy. The process of inflammation is most distinctly seen in wounds of the extremities, and in lacerations or ruptures of the tendons. They become enlarged, sometimes expanded in various affections of the joints. Punctured or lacerated wounds of tendinous struc- ture are sometimes succeeded by tetanic motions, which terminate fatally. Ossification, so common in the tendons of birds, is almost unknown in the human subject; unless the sesamoid bones be ad- mitted as examples of this transformation.