GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY". 404 nected internally with an ossified portion of the lining mem- brane.* In the descriptive catalogue of Mr Langstaff’s museum, are se- veral preparations in which the muscular substance of the heart is said to have been inflamed. No. 298, a female of 46, 303, a boy of 8. (The muscular structure showed all the signs of carditis.) 303, a man of 47. No specific details, however, are furnished.f In the Morbid Anatomy Collection of the University of Edinburgh is a preparation of a heart, (P. 12,) in which a large abscess with an irregular inner surface, which contained lymph and purulent matter, occupies the whole extent of the septum cordis, and com- municates, by a small orifice the size of a quill with the left ventri- cle. In this case inflammation must have affected the septum, per- haps the neighbouring parts of the left ventricle, and may have eventually been concentrated on the septum, in which it induced suppuration, confined within the walls of a distinct cavity. Twelve months previous to death the patient laboured under symptoms of pneumonia, and at last died suddenly. An instance not less decisive is recorded by Mr Salter of Poole, in the person of a man of 50 years. The disease appears in this case, however, to have been at first slow in progress, and chronic in duration, as the symptoms continued for about six weeks. These were dull, heavy, but not lancinating pain, in the lower part of the chest, rather inclining to the left side; much distressing oppres- sion in breathing, aggravated at intervals, and never quitting the patient; frequent small pulse ; considerable uneasiness in the left arm frequently recurring, and a feeling as if he could not live. No cough nor any sign of pulmonary affection was observed. All the symptoms assumed an aggravated form with great orthopncea, anxiety, and restlessness, for sixty-five hours only before death. In this case the heart was rather larger than natural and of moderate firmness. Large white and yellow clots were contained within the chambers of the organ, and marks of incipient ossification were observed in the ascending aorta, but no disease in the endo- cardium or in the valves. The muscular substance of the heart * Pathological Essays on some Diseases of the Heart ; being the substance of Lec- tures delivered before the College of Physicians. By P. Mere Latham, M. D., Physi- cian to St Bartholomew’s Hospital. London Medical Gazette, Vol. Ill-, p- London, 1829. Essay III. t Catalogue of the preparations illustrative of Normal, Abnormal, and Moi i Structure, constituting the Anatomical Museum of George Langstaft, F. 1LC. S., &c- London, 1842. 8vo.