STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—MALPIGHIAN BODIES. 803 the nucleated cells swell so much, that it is impossible to distin- guish the nucleus and contents; and they appear only as pale, ap parently homogeneous transparent globules. This renders the ciliated movements indistinct, or annihilates them. But, at all events, M. Kolliker has more frequently seen them in preparations moistened with serum, albumen, or frogs’ urine, than in those sprinkled with water; and he has found them most certainly in preparations entirely unmoistened. In one point only he thinks Mr Bowman’s statements not quite correct, viz. regarding the epithelium of the Malpighian bodies. He observed within the capsule a complete epithelium; but the cilia he traced no further than the entrance of the capsule. He has satisfied himself, by preparations made with the greatest care, that within the capsule of the Malpighian bodies there is normally no free cavity.* Such is an abstract of the present state of information on the microscopical anatomy of the kidney and the Malpighian bodies. It will be seen, that, notwithstanding the skill and dexterity of the observers, the facts are contradictory and not easily reconciled. I have nevertheless given them for various reasons; first, to show the gieat difficulty of the subject; secondly, to prove what is ad- mitted by Henle, that microscopical anatomy is still in a transition and imperfect state; and also, thirdly, to enable readers to form some idea of the minute structure of the glands. Though the kidney is in some respects peculiar in its minute structure, yet it agrees with other glandular organs in certain general and leading characters; and the exposition of these, however incomplete, may serve to communicate an idea of the peculiar characters of glandu- lar structure in general. Before quitting the subject, however, it is proper to observe that one, if not two of the points on which Reichert, Gerlach, and Bid- der (hffer from Mr Bowman, depend on optical illusions only: that he has described correctly what he saw by the microscope; but tha, from some cause not easily understood, he has not given the explanations of the phenomena which they conceive to be correct. On the uses of he M„lp,gh,an bodies we have no positive correct information. All is supposition and conjecture; and those who ave most studied these bodies, have been least willing to speak with .sssscss iva “