511 SKIN. theless, that they can be distinguished from each other. T he secret- ing or depositing power of the corion is a process which is inces- sant and uninterrupted; and after the first secreted portions become firm, others subjacent undergo in like manner incessant deposition and induration. While this process of repair is going on at the surface of the corion, a process of wearing or destruction is with the same rapidity in the healthy state going on at the outer or exposed surface of the cuticle. A piece of black or blue cloth rubbed gently over the skin becomes quickly whitened by minute portions of scarf-skin, which are thus detached from the firmer and more recent portions. A black silk stocking drawn on the leg for a very short time, even when the skin has been carefully washed with soap and water, comes off covered with numerous thin white amorphous scales, which are found to be minute portions of decayed cuticle, ready to be thrown off by the first slight friction. In like manner, the friction of dress, of washing, rubbing, &c. tends to remove the exposed portions of cuticle. These several facts show that this membrane is a sub- stance secreted from the outer surface of the corion ; that its pro- duction is a successive and incessant process; and that it undergoes a constant wearing or detrition. As numerous facts show that it is an albuminous substance much indurated (Hatchett,) so it would appear that when this induration becomes extreme, as takes place in the exterior portions, their connection with the recent and softer portions is destroyed, and detachment is the result. Such is the course of phenomena in the healthy state. When the outer surface of the corion becomes inflamed or other- wise disordered, its secretion is no longer performed with the same perfection or regularity. The effect of this is seen in the vitiated state of the scarf-skin, which is no longer the uniform, continuous, firm semitransparent membrane observed in health, but becomes broken’ thickened, opaque, and divided into numerous scales. Of the various modes in which this secretion may be deranged, and of the varieties in cuticular disease to which it may give rise, too little is known to speak with precision of their individual forms. But it may be con- sidered as certain, that every morbid state of the outer surface of the corion gives rise to certain unnatural conditions of the cuticle, and that every abnormal state of the cuticle depends originally on amor- b‘d state of the cuticular or secreting surface of the corion. In general, this morbid state consists in some degree of inflammation,