267 BRAIN. the existence of a longitudinal cavity or canal in the spinal chord. In the adult this never exists in the normal state. The canal of the chord is part of the foetal structure only ; and in this respect it is to be viewed as one of inany peculiarities of formation belonging to the lower animals, through which the human foetus passes in the early stage of development. A longitudinal canal is found in the spinal chord, during the whole course of existence, in reptiles, fishes, and birds. In mammiferous animals in general it is always found in the foetus, and continues in several for some time after birth. (Sewel, F. Meckel, and Tiedemann.) As the animal grows, how- ever, it ceases to be found; and the only trace of its previous ex- istence is a longitudinal depression on the anterior part of the chord. In the young of the human subject it has been found after birth by Charles Stephen, by Columbo, Piccolhomini, Bauhin, Malphighi, Lyser, Golles, Morgagni, Iialler, and Portal. No doubt can be entertained, however, that in such cases it was part of the foetal structure continued to an unusual period by the slow progress of growth, or in consequence of some interruption to the usual process of development. The chord, in short, is formed in two portions; and when these are incomplete, the longitudinal cavity exists between them. As by progressive enlargement they mutually approximate on the mesial plane, this canal necessarily diminishes until it entirely disappears. I am now to consider shortly the minute anatomical structure of cerebral matter in the several parts of the organ. The three di- visions of brain, small brain, and vertebral prolongation, and their constituent parts, do not present every where the same aspect or obvious qualities, but appear to consist of substances which are dis- tinguished chiefly by their colour. The outer convoluted part of the first division (cerebrum) con- sists of peculiar substance, of a gray or ashen colour. Its convo- luted surface, which is covered by the adherent surface of the soft or vascular membrane, (meninx tenuis, pia muter), is smooth and uniformly gray, without spots or streaks. At various situations it presents minute holes or orifices, which correspond to arterial or venous branches. It is not easy to apply accurate terms to denote the kind of colour ; but, according to Gordon, this surface is of the wood-brown or lead-gray tinge ;* and the substance so coloured * Same’s Nomenclature of Colours.