MUSCULAR TISSUE. 407 well developed, no change of this description can be recognized. They are indeed firm and tough, like the muscle of entire male animals, but present nothing of the morbid enlargement, conges- tion, and induration found in the hypertrophied heart and bladder. In proof of the justice of these views it may be added, that the in- stances in which the muscular coat of the stomach is admitted to be hypertrophied, are those in which scirrhus, or some similar chronic inflammatory state, affects the collateral tissues. (Louis.) Hypertrophy of muscular organs takes place most commonly in connection with some permanent resistance opposed to their action. Thus hypertrophy of the heart is connected with permanent con- traction of the aortic orifice and disease of the valves, or with an unnaturally irritant state of the blood, as in rheumatism and disease of the kidney. Hypertrophy of the bladder, in like manner, usu- ally takes place as an effect of stricture of the urethra, and some- times of chronic inflammation or other disease of the mucous coat, 'i or enlargement of the prostate gland. 3. Atrophy of muscles, or diminution of size, is more frequent, and may arise either from general disease, as in consumption, dropsy, &c. or from local debility, as in rheumatism, palsy, &c.; or, in short, from defective local nutrition, or, as after unreduced luxations, from want of exercise of particular muscles. The best example of complete atrophy is that which takes place in muscles poisoned by lead, which become small, shrunk, pale, and void of irritability. 4. Steatosis ; Adipification.—I cannot understand upon what i grounds the fatty degeneration of muscle is denied by Beclard ; I for there is no doubt that authentic instances are recorded of this change occurring in the muscles both of man and of the lower ani- mals, under certain diseases. Independent of its being seen in the muscles of the sheep by Vaughan,* it has been observed in those of the human subject by Haller, Louis, Maugre, Yicq-D’Azyr, Dumas, Lmmanuel, Laennec, and Adams. Louis, so early as 1739, in amputating the right leg, found the gemelli, plantar is, poplitaeus, solaeus, the long common flexor of the toes, the proper flexor of the great toe, and the tibialis posticus,converted into fat.f * Some Account of an Uncommon Appearance, &c. By W. Vaughan, M. D. London, 1813. t Rapport sur une Observation, &c. Journal General de Medecine, Tome XXIV. p. 5.