BRAIN. 299 the wall, or the ceiling of the ventricle, or, as shall be afterwards shown, it issues from the choroid plexus. The same lemaik applies to blood on the surface of the brain. In this process the hemorrhage, produces extensive laceration of the substance of the hemisphere attacked ; and if the blood effused be copious, and the laceration of the hemisphere great, the lesion proves speedily fatal. This fact I have verified by several cases carefully observed and examined after death; and, in order to il- lustrate more clearly the nature of the lesion and its attendant effects, I shall mention shortly the condition of the brain in one extreme case. A quantity of dark-coloured blood, spread over the surface of the brain, was found on the anterior, superior, and lateral regions of the right hemisphere. This was thin at the posterior and superior part of the hemisphere, that is, about the thickness of a half-crown piece, diminishing to that of a shilling. At the anterior lobes it became much thicker, and at their lower surface and the anterior end of the mesolobe (corpus callosum), it was at least one- fourth of an inch thick. It was spread, much to the same extent and of the same dimensions, over the olfactory nerves and inferior surface of the anterior lobes, over the optic chiasma, pisiform emi- nences, and most of the whole lower surface of the middle lobe. A lacerated opening had taken place at the inner margin of the right hemisphere where it is joined to the mesolobe, and by this, which had forcibly torn up the mesolobe from its connections with the hemisphere, the blood had escaped, and gradually spread itself over the lower, anterior, and superior surfaces of the hemisphere. It was then found that a large lacerated cavity had been formed in the substance of the right hemisphere, about three inches long, tapering at each end, but about two inches or one inch and a half in diameter at middle ; that from this the blood had escaped by one la- cerated opening anteriorly to the surface of the brain; and by a. lateral one into the ventricle, which was also filled with blood. Cases of the kind now specified are of extreme violence, and not only fatal, but very speedily fatal. It has been said that apoplexy, that is, cerebral hemorrhage, is not a speedily fatal disease ; and, under certain restrictions, this is correct. It is indeed not instanta- neously fatal, like the bursting of an aortic aneurism, or the sudden death following on disease of the valves of the aorta or the heart. According to liochoux, the shortest time that, in the most rapid cases, elapses between the first appearance of the symptoms and the