GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 728 5th, Adhesions of the two surfaces of the arachnoid oc curred no more than 8 or 10 times in 100 instances. They are most com- mon in the great fissure, and once or twice were observed in the ventricles. In one case, in which the disease was complicated, M. Bayle found the two folds of the arachnoid intimately united by the interposition of an albuminous patch. 6th, The membranes adhered to the convoluted surface with un- usual firmness, so as to carry away portions of brain in one-half of the cases. This took place in spaces varying in size from a lentile or a bean to a five-franc piece or more. The connection of this change with inflammation is denoted by-the vascularity and abnormal thickness of the membranes at the adhering points. 7th, The pisiform granulations of Greding were found in not more than Jgth of the subjects; a degree of rarity probably depen- dent on the circumstance that they are in general a product of long-continued inflammation. 8th, Bloody extravasation in the arachnoid cavity, which belongs to a subsequent head, was found in about |-th of the cases. From these and similar facts, and from the cases of M. Calmed, it results that the cerebral membranes, more especially the tomen- tose and vascular surface of the proper membrane, (pia mater and choroid plexus,) are liable to assume a peculiar state of chronic in- flammation, affecting more or less, sometimes very considerably, the convoluted and central surfaces of the brain. Of this morbid change the first effects are more or less weight, uneasiness, and pain of the head; sometimes partial convulsive motions ; sometimes te- tanic motions or involuntary contractions, vertigo, double vision, spectral delirium, and occasionally sudden loss of sensation and mo- tion. In other instances, it induces gradually deficient memory, disordered intellect, and some affection of the muscles of speech. Finally, it induces palsy, fatuity, and stupor or coma, terminating fatally. Palsy occurring under these circumstances in the insane is dis- tinguished by peculiar characters. At first the motions of the tongue are constrained; the efforts to speak are unavailing; arti- culation is impracticable ; and the individual struggles and stam- mers to express his desires like a person under the influence of in- toxication. As this becomes intense he is observed to totter, stagger, or reel in walking, and is aware that he cannot direct the muscles of the limbs to move as he wills. At this time the derangement 3