740 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. effusion, with symptoms of stupor, coma, and sometimes convul- sions, which terminate fatally in about six or seven weeks, sometimes earlier. The opinion of Laennec, that miliary tubercles are the incipient form of the tyromatous tubercle, is, in reference to the serous mem- branes, destitute of proof. The miliary eminences of these mem- branes have not yet been shown to pass into the tyromatous. I VI. Chondroma.— Cartilaginous degeneration is not uncommon in the serous tissue. It appears in the form of patches varying in size and shape, attached to the free surface of the membranes. By some authors this is regarded as a preliminary step to ossification. But this is not established. New development of cartilage is most commonly seen in the pleura and pericardium in the form of bluish-white patches, highly polished on the free surface, varying from the size of a fourpenny piece to the diameter of one shilling and more. The margins of these patches is irregular and sometimes indented and sending out other thin patches. In general the formation of these patches is preceded by inflam- mation, subacute or chronic, in the course of which the spot is covered by lymph, which afterwards undergoes the cartilaginous transformation. Sometimes the part is puckered and shrivelled, as if previously the pulmonic tissue had been affected by inflamma- tion. In old cases of chronic pleurisy and emphysema, it is usual for the false membrane to be converted into a fibrous layer of im- perfect cartilage, uniting the two pleurae. Similar patches are observed in the hepatic and splenic perito- neum ; the spleen may be entirely enclosed in a cartilaginous tu- nic ; and often the peritonaeum covering the ovaries is entirely transformed into a firm though not very thick cartilaginous covering. VII. Ossification.—In no texture, perhaps, is osseous deposi- tion more frequent than in the serous. It occurs in every one of these membranes without exception. In the arachnoid it is not unfrequently seen in the form of osseous plates at the inner suriace of the dura mater, and the free surface of the pia mater. Often, also, numerous thin scales of bony matter with pearly aspect are observed in the arachnoid of the spinal canal. In the pleura and pericardium it is exceedingly common, instances of it being no- ticed by most authors, and numerous specimens of it contained