GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 826 submaxillary and sublingual glands are liable to be affected by in- flammation, more frequently chronic than acute. This process causes hard swellings, with more or less pain, in the site of these glands. § 6. Occlusion of Ducts.—More or less obstruction of the excre- tory ducts is a disorder common to all glands. This may be occa- sioned either by the ducts being contracted and narrowed by in- flammatory thickening or its products, or by some of the products of secretion sticking in the ducts. The ducts in which changes of this kind are most usually ob- served are Steno’s ducts in the parotid, and Wharton’s in the sub- maxillary and the sublingual ducts. There is no doubt, neverthe- less, that the lacrymal excretory ducts are liable to the same in- convenience. When the duct of Steno is obstructed by any cause of the kind now referred to, a swelling more or less considerable, and more or less firm, is formed in its course, in the cheek; and unless the ob- structing cause is removed, it sometimes produces ulceration of the walls of the duct, and salivary fistula. The same accident may happen to the duct of Wharton. Of this sort of swelling, Boyer saw an instance. The gland swelled, and the swelling subsided alternately, as the saliva was retained or was allowed to flow into the mouth. By pressing the tumour whenever the pain allowed pressure to be made, the saliva was urged along the duct into the mouth, and the volume of the gland diminished. This condition continued for months. Boyer recommended the patient to make frequent and long-continued use of mallow water in the mouth. The swelling of the walls of the canal subsided; the saliva resumed its free course ; and the gland no longer swell- ed. § 7. Concretions.—The most usual causes, however, probably, of obstructions are the presence of concretions in the excretory ducts. This cause is common to all glands; for the secreted product may be prevented from descending along the ducts, either by its own viscidity and morbid consistence, or by some arctation in the ducts. All excreting ducts are liable to have their channels contracted by thickening of the walls. But independent of this cause, which has been already noticed, the secretions of all glands, though ori- ginally and normally fluid, are liable to vary in chemical and me- chanical properties, and thereby to favour the formation of various