326 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. inside. The latter I ascribe to a secondary orgasm or vascular ac- tion caused by the presence of the indurated portion, nearly as the presence of tumours is occasionally observed to induce softening. In this case the individual, a young man about 30, had long laboured under bad health, latterly with epileptic fits of frequent recurrence. The last time I saw him alive, he was dragging his legs in a semiparalytic manner, had an expression approaching to fa- tuous, did not readily comprehend what was said to him, and looked thin, pale, and haggard and stupid. lie had consulted or been under the care of different physicians, all of whom differed more or less in opinion as to the exact cause of his symptoms. Between three or four weeks after I saw him, he fell into a stupid and co- matose state and died. From these and similar facts, no doubt can be entertained of the tendency of the process of inflammation to indurate the brain under certain circumstances. The difficulty consists in ascertain- ing what are the conditions under which a process usually termi- nating in softening should give rise to an opposite change. It is probably premature to attempt any explanation of a process so contradictory in appearance. I shall merely say, that induration seems in general to be occasioned by the encephalic capillaries having their nutritive action so much injured by the inflammatory process, that they cease to deposit healthy cerebral substance. The induration now described commences generally in the base of the brain by the hippocampus major, (cornu ammonisj) and these extends to the neighbouring parts. If confined to the brain only, it causes, according to M. Pinel, mere fatuity, (dementia,) with more or less palsy. But if it affect the annular protuberance, the limbs, or the olivary bodies, or the chord itself, epilepsy, general palsy, and death by marasmus, are the usual consequences. h. The change which produces fatuity is the early stage of a more serious lesion of the cerebral substance, atrophic hardening, (sclerenkenphaliaj) an extreme state of induration found in the brains of idiots. From that already described, it differs chiefly in degree. A portion of brain so changed becomes a compact inor- ganic looking mass, resembling in colour, consistence, and density, indurated egg or even cheese. The cerebral substance is depressed, shrunk, and condensed, and seems utterly void of vessels or ca- pillaries. When exposed to the action of fire, instead of swelling Up without odour, and leaving a brownish light residue, it assumes