GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 730 affection in the older collections, the first good example is given by Morgagni from Valsalvi, who found in the body of a man of 58 much coagulated blood between the pia mater and the convoluted surface of the right hemisphere. (Epist ii. 19.) Two similar cases Morgagni inspected himself. (Epist. iii. 2 and 4.) The best instance ot this hemorrhage, however, is given by ]\1 r Howship in his 11th case. It occurred in a young woman of 22, who for two years had laboured under rheumatic ailments, and at length, after paralytic and vertiginous symptoms, died lethargic. Upon inspection the pia mater was found vascular and red; its ves- sels increased in number and size; and blood was diffusely ex- travasated all under the pia mater. “ The extravasated fluid had formed superficial coagula, corresponding to the sulci between the convolutions.”—“ It had taken place very universally, and the ef- fusion seemed to have arisen not only from the capillary arteries upon the external surface of the pia mater, but also from those processes of the membrane which dip between the convolutions forming the tomentum cerebri. Several of these deep-seated coa- gula were divided by the knife in the course of the dissection.”* Slighter examples of partial extravasation on the convoluted surface I have seen myself, and mentioned many years ago,f when I did not well understand the source of the hemorrhage. These partial extravasations are the cause of the orange-coloured de- pressed spots often seen on the convoluted surface of the brain. Dr Abercrombie records two instances communicated by Dr Hunter and Dr Barlow, in which the extravasation, he states, was from the superficial vessels of the brain.J He does not specify, how- ever, whether the blood was beneath the pia mater or above it. If it was above, it belongs to the following head. The lesion now described is to be regarded as a hemorrhage taking place spontaneously. Much more frequently, however, blood effused between the pia mater and surface of the brain is the effect of blows, violence, and similar injuries. As such it has already come under consideration; and I have only to repeat what was formerly stated, that in a medico-legal point of view the distinction is most important, and the correct knowledge of it may often affect * Practical Observations on Surgery and Morbid Anatomy, &c. Lond. 1816. Sec- tion ii. Case xiv. See also cases xviii. and xx. f On the Pathological Anatomy of the Brain and its Membranes, Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. xviii. p. 487. + Researches, Pathological and Practical.