334 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. with imperfect articulation, deficient intelligence, difficult deglutition and respiration, and frequent convulsions, terminating at the end of eighteen months in death, the oli- vary bodies, peduncle of the cerebellum, and mammillary eminence, were in a state of cartilaginous hardness. M. Andral Fils, Journal de Physiologie, Tome ii. p. 111. 1822.—In a girl of about 20 months, with alternate motion of the head to the right and left, terminating in fatal coma, without convulsion or palsy, several of the convolutions of both hemispheres had become extremely hard, and assumed the colour of ivory. When pressed between the fingers they resisted like fibro-cartilage ; when drawn, they recoiled. Similar in- durations were found in the substance of the hemispheres to their base. The right hemisphere of the cerebellum contained a round cyst with smooth walls, of the capa- city of a nut, containing minute, hard, irregular shaped concretions, of strong consis- tence, and similar to the spiculse of a fractured bone. M. J. Bouillaud, Traite de l’Encephalite. Paris, 1825. P. 161, Obs. 33.—A man of 57, with impaired speech, after a cerebral disorder ; in the anterior lobe of the left hemisphere an albuminous mass, the size of an egg, sprinkled with drops of blood, and drops of purulent fluid. Ibid. Observat. 36, p. 183.—A man of 57, with right hemiplegy, intellectual imbe- cility, and involuntary repetition of the last words spoken to him, after an apoplectic attack, terminating in complete fatuity and death, with injection of the membranes and cerebral substance, in the anterior third of the left hemisphere was found an in- durated nut, the size of an egg, surrounded by bloody clots and distinct injection. A longitudinal section presented yellowish colouring and red-brown points, depending on the presence of blood coloured with the substance in which it was effused. The sub- stance of the indurated mass resembled concrete pus mixed with blood, grating under the knife, and containing minute bloody effusions with filamentous substance, and, though much firmer than the rest of the brain, falling easily under the finger. It was separated from the surrounding brain by a circle of well injected capillaries. In the middle lobe of the same hemisphere was a similar mass, less extensive, and rather softened than indurated. This appears to be an albuminous tumour in its early stage. In the following cases the diseased change was found in the ce- rebellum. Joannis Harderi, Apiarum Basileaj, 1687. 4to. Observat. 58, p. 238.—A girl of 17, of scrofulous habit, who suffered severe lancinating pains of the head, followed by fatal convulsions. The membranes containing much yellow serum ; vessels minutely injected ; in the cerebellum, near its termination, three hard globular bodies, (scirrhi,) one as large as a nutmeg in the beginning of the spinal chord. They contained yel- lowish matter of considerable consistence. Ephemerides Naturaj Curiosaj. Decade iii. Ann. iv. p. 148.—In a hydrocephalic subject, the cerebellum indurated, adhering to the dura mater and skull without inter- mediate cavity. J. Mar. Lancisi, Dc Noxiis Paludum Effluviis, Lib. ii. Epid. iii. c. vi. 218.—In the cerebellum of a man subject to convulsions, cut off by intermittent fever, was a hard white body, two inches broad and three long, composed of several globular masses aggregated, invested with membranes. Memoires de l’Academie Royale des Sciences, 1705, No. 13.—In a boy of 4$, who was stupid for two years before death, the cerebellum, with the posterior half of the medulla oblongata, (the restiform bodies !J) was changed into a hard white homoge- neous mass. Morgagni, Epist. lxii. 15.—A man aged 48, pursuing the occupation of a cook, and