GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 280 Morgagni, Louis, Le Dran, Schmueker, O’Halloran, Dease, Aber- nethy, Thomson, Hennen, &c.) When softening takes place in connection with serous effusion, it is partly the concurrent effect of inflammation, partly of the ef- fused fluid. This is well illustrated in those cases in which the septum lucidum is attenuated, reticular, and perforated, or at length ruptured. This form of destruction, accompanied with more or less softening of the twain-band, (fornixJ, is repeatedly mentioned by Morgagni, and has been noticed by most authors who have described cases of watery effusion within the cerebral cavities. I have seen it in three sorts of cases; first, in the true hydrocephalic effusion; secondly, in that which takes place in continued fever; and, thirdly, in the course of chronic meningeal inflammation, with thickening of the dura mater, after injury. Not only does pulpy disorganization occur in this part of the organ in continued fever, but it takes place in the substance of the hemispheres. Of this pathological fact good instances are given by Jemina, as they occurred in an epidemic at Montreal, in the terri- tory of Turin, in 1783-84. In one the white matter of the hemi- sphere (centrum ovale) was soft, pulpy, (fracidum,) of an ash-colour, passing into yellow, and pasty; in another it was soft and tawny- coloured, like spoilt fruit; and in a third the cerebellum was simi- larly changed.* The same change was observed by Dr Black of Newry in the cerebral hemisphere. (Ti’ansactions, Vol. II.) When pulpy disorganization is connected with effusion of blood, it has been supposed by M. Iiostan to be the cause of that effusion. That this supposition is inadmissible, I infer from the following facts, which I have witnessed more than once. Is7, That the por- tion of brain inclosing the clot is soft and pulpy all round, but sound in proportion to the distance from the clot. 2d, That in some instances in which partial recovery takes place, part of the red clot has disappeared, and its place is supplied by serous fluid. 3c7, That in cases in which death takes place early, the pulpy dis- organization is less complete than those in which it takes place at a later period. In short, the extent of the disorganization is pro- portionate to the interval which elapses between the effusion of the blood and the period of death. When pulpy disorganization accompanies tumours of the brain, * De Febre, Anno 1783-84, Monteregali Epidemica, auctore Marco Antonio Jemina, M. D. &c. Extat in Brera Sylloge, Vol. X. p. 218, 247. 4