GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 508 trunk, is particularly injected; and towards the close of the dis- ease, this capillary injection is brownish or purple. The injection of the mucous surfaces shall be noticed afterwards. In nettle-rash, this injection is in circumscribed patches, and accompanied with elevation, but disappears greatly after death. In erythematous in- flammation I have observed the cuticular surface of the corion of a scarlet red, and soft velvety texture, and distinctly traversed by numerous minute arborescent and asteroid patches, which, however, become much paler in a few days. ยง 2. Cutaneous inflammations situate chiefly in the outer surface of the corion, producing sero-albuminous fluid, which elevates the scarf shin into pushes, blebs, or blisters, (Bullse, Phlyctaense,) commencing in certain parts of the corion, but spreading continuously. The outer surface of the corion may be inflamed in such a manner as not to terminate in desquamation or resolution, but to pour forth a sero-albuminous yellowish fluid, which detaches the cuticle and elevates it in the form of a bleb or blister. This is very well seen in the instance of scalding by boiling fluids, on the application of tbe blistering fly, {Meloe vesicatorius,) or even in some cases of fric- tion to parts naturally tender. In each of these cases, in a short time large watery elevations or bladders appear. The same pro- cess takes place spontaneously in rose, in common blebs, and in the bullose or bleb fever. The form of these blebs is not determinate; nor even are they always uniform in appearance. The action by which they are produced, though more violent in degree, is not different in kind from ordinary cutaneous inflammation. It is at- tended, nevertheless, with more swelling of the corion, more exqui- site burning heat, and more searing or scalding pain, than the other forms of superficial cutaneous inflammation. The fluid secreted by this process is sero-albuminous. When the raised cuticle is divided a yellowish transparent watery fluid escapes; and when the cuticle is detached so as to expose the inflamed spot, the inflamed skin is found covered by a quantity of soft, cellular, gelatinous mattei, o a yellow-white colour, somewhat tough, and similar to coagulable lymph. This substance is traversed by firm linear partitions, not uniform in number or direction, but forming interstices from w hie serous fluid, the same as that which escaped first, is dischaige The coagulable matter, which is albuminous, at the same time contracts, and forming a covering to the corion, while the lat- ter begins to secrete a new cuticle, is at length thrown ott m t ie