1035 KiKRliOSlS or THE LUNG. large dilated bronchia is red and thickened. The small bronchia are not permeable beyond their orifices. The tubes are generally filled with viscid puriform mucus. The lung itself is generally smaller than natural or contracted. No tubercles are observed. But it is common to find the pleura covered with lymph, or adher- ing to the costal pleura. These changes Dr Corrigan ascribes to the previous existence of chronic inflammation in the filamento-cellular tissue of the lung, converting it into a fibro-cellular structure, which contracts toward the centre of the organ, and in its contraction draws along with it the elastic substance of the lung, in the same manner as the cellular tissue of the liver is supposed to contract that organ.* This explanation is hypothetical. The lesion has been described and represented by Andral, Reynaud, and Dr Carsewell as hyper- tiophy and dilatation of the bronchial tubes. These are manifestly both dilated and their walls are thickened and hypertrophied, while their cellular or vesicular terminations are obliterated. These are facts. All the rest are opinions. All that can be said of this change is, that it seems to be the result of an inflammatory condi- tion of the bronchial tubes, with obliteration of their extremities sometimes with pleuritic exudation. . seems impossible to establish any analogy between this mor- bid state of the lung and kirrhosis of the liver. In the latter dis- ease, the acini or granular elements are hypertrophied, and they contain bile or the matter of bile, (taurine), and colouring matter, and crystalline fatty matter. Nothing analogous to this is seen in the lung with hypertrophied bronchial tubes. § 12. Concretions.—Hard gritty or stony bodies are very fre- quently found in the substance of the lungs.f The mostusual situation for these bodies is at the apex of one or both lungs, or somewhere in the upper part of the upper lobe. In some cases the pleura ad- heres to the costal pleura over the site of these bodies, so that they are not recognized until the lung is removed from the chest. If the pleura do not adhere it is observed that a shrivelled contracted appearance of the spot with some depression has taken place, as if it were the mark of a ccatrix or healed scar of the lung, while the * On Cirrhosis of the Luna. Bv T) T rv,.,.; , r Tv „ Medical Sciences, Vol. xiii. p. 206. Dub^ S ^ ^ ^ °f ** 1" -A- Orisc of Obstructed Deglutition fmm ± , . formed in, the Pharynx. By Mr Ludlow q ' 1,r(j|crnaUn'U dilatation of; and hag Inquiries, Vol. iii. London, J 760, 98.’ &U'8e0n’ ' Medical 0bsemtions