GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 384 knot; the end of the lower portion undergoes the same change, hut in less degree; the knotty parts unite; and the substance which thus connects the cut portions of nerve, though it continues hard and large, is considered as either nervous matter, or as containing a considerable portion of that substance, for the sensations and mo- tions of the parts are in most cases restored shortly after union. This process, according to Bichat, therefore, consists of four stages, 1$£, After incision the cut ends inflame, and the capillaries of the divided portions effuse coagulating or organizable lymph, which is penetrated with blood-vessels. 2d, This effusion, which takes place chiefly from the neurilfima, forms a sort of cellular tissue, in which nervous matter is afterwards deposited. This cel- lular tissue, and the new matter in general, is in quantity according to the spaces to be filled up. If it be large, the new matter is aug- mented by successive effusion and granulation; and when small, the connection by deposition appears to be veryspeedily effected. 3d, The adhesion of the individual granulating bodies and consolidation of the part. 4th, The deposition or exhalation of nervous substance in the new matter.* Is this, which is said to be the last stage of the process, not co-existent and simultaneous with the effusion of new matter in general ? What are the proofs which show that the proper nervous matter is last deposited? When a nerve has been divided under circumstances which pre- vent it from uniting in any manner with its detached segment, as in amputation, the extremity enlarges and becomes vascular, from the neurilematic vessels assuming the inflammatory action ; blood and lymph are effused both from the cut extremity and into the in- terstices of the neurilematic canals; more or less adhesion is con- tracted with the contiguous textures; and wrhen the active state of this process has subsided, a hard knotty tubercle is left in the site of the cut extremity. This tubercle is at first rendered vascular, afterwards grayish, solid, and so firm that the knife may be blunted in dividing it. (Arnemann.) The changes now mentioned I have often traced in the surface of stumps during healing. The size and shape of the tubercle vary according to circumstances not well as- certained. When situate not exactly at the extremity, as observed by Van Horne,f it merely shows that the inflammatory process had spread farther up the nerve than usual. • Anat. Gen. Tom. I. Art. iii. sect. 3, p. 176. -j- De iis qiuc in partibus membri amputatione vulnerntis notanda sunt. Lug unl Batav. 1803.