SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE—INFLAMMATION AND ULCERATION. 749 synovial membrane is found united by bridles or ligaments of false membrane. When sero-purulent or purulent matter is effused into a synovial cavity, especially where the inflammation fails to be resolved, or passes into the chronic state, ulceration of the capsule and the in- terligamentous tissue is liable to take place, and the ichorous or sero-purulent fluid is discharged by one or more openings through the skin. In more advanced and chronic states, the synovial membrane often becomes thick, pulpy, and vascular, granular or villous on its surface, and is at length destroyed by ulceration. In some joints, this process is an immediate effect of inflammation, the syno- vial covering being gradually perforated in numerous points at which the subjacent cartilage is exposed, and then undergoes ero- sion. Though this process may occur in any joint, the researches of Sir B. Brodie show that it is most frequent in the knee, in which the destruction it occasions is often very great. A disease of this kind I have several times seen remove every particle of cartilage from the articulating extremities, and expose the cancellated struc- ture of the bone. This process is attended with extreme pain and suffering to the patient, more particularly aggravated during the night. The same process takes place in the elbow-joint, but here it often forms fistulous abscesses of the extra-capsular cellular tissue. In the articular processes of the vertebrae, I have seen it often give rise to disease of these bones, and finally terminate in ankylosis, with destruction of the processes, and considerable lateral curvature of the spine. Inflammation of the articular synovial sacs affects not only the cartilages and bones, but the ligaments, capsular and funicular. Its transition to these textures, which is easy and direct, induces thickening and induration of the ligament, in consequence of effu- sion of lymph between its fibres and interstices. After some time the action extends to the extra-articular filamentous tissue, which is then injected by jelly-like fluid, sometimes colourless or pale red, at other times reddish or brown. At the same time, this filamen- tous tissue acquires a granular character and some induration. These several changes, which give rise to swelling round the joint more or less diffuse, constitute one of the most frequent forms of white-swelling. Suppuration may take place, as in the last in- stance, followed by fistulous openings.