GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY". 6 i ture and the adipose membrane, with some observations on the serous membranes, and showed in what manner the respective properties of each tend to modify their different morbid states. In the Noso- logy, Physiology, and First Lines of Dr Cullen, (1765, 1769), we find the author making frequent allusion to the organic properties of the various substances which enter into the composition of the animal body, (1777), and employing these distinctions as the foundation of his Pathology. In the hands of John Hunter this system was carried to still greater perfection ; and his work on Inflammation contains the rudiment of many of the improvements which Pathology has derived from this source. General anatomy was thus beginning to attain insensibly the form of a science, and to be cultivated with assiduity as the surest basis of pathological knowledge. I must not omit to mention, that in the time of the elder Hunter and Cullen it underwent a valu- able improvement in the hands of an ingenious foreigner. This consisted in the systematic and connected vie\y which Andrew Bonn of Amsterdam delineated of the mutual connections of the membranes of the human body. In his Inaugural Dissertation, De Continuationibus Membranarum, published at Leyden in 1763, this author, after some preliminary observations on membranes in general, and on their structure and organization, unfolds the struc- ture of the skin and its component parts, as ascertained by the best anatomists. Lie then proceeds to trace its continuation or transi- tion into the mucous membranes, which he regards as productions of the skin ; Is/, By the eyelids into the lacrymal passages; 2c/, Into the external ear-hole ; 3d, Into the nasal passages in the form of the Schneiderian, or pituitary membrane; 4/A, Into the mouth, throat, and Eustachian tube and tympanal cavity ; 5/A, By the larynx and windpipe into the bronchial tubes and lungs; 6/A, By the pharynx and oesophagus into the stomach and bowels, where, at the lower extremity of the rectum, its continuity with the skin may again be traced. He concludes this part of his essay with a short view of the transition of the skin into the mucous membrane of the urinary and genital organs, or what has since been named the gen i to-urinary surface. This may be regarded as the first di- vision of his subject. In the second, in which he treats of the membranes beneath the skin, he considers, Is/, Those of the muscles, as the cellular mem- brane and aponeurotic expansions; 2d, The periosteum and peri- 4