GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1000 This has been mentioned by Gluge as taking place after glan- ders and metastatic inflammation ; and he considers the purulent matter as deposited in the pulmonic filamen to-cellular tissue.* It appears to me that though this may take place occasionally, yet these collections are very generally in the veins of the lungs. In one case of inflammation of the uterine veins, with matter in them and the common iliac veins and cava, Dr Lee found, with he- patization of the lower lobe of the left lung, matter in the pulmo- nary veins and lymph in the pulmonary trunk.f § 8. Deposits of Blood in the Pulmonary Arteries after Phlebitis.—Another effect of inflammation of the veins consists in deposits of blood, or lymph, or both, in the pulmonary artery and its branches. While the last mentioned deposit of purulent matter succeeds purulent phlebitis, this, there is every reason to believe, follows lymphy or plasmatic phlebitis, in which either clots of blood or lymph are formed in the inflamed vein. The following is the ordinary mode in which I have seen this take place. Symptoms of inflammation appear in a vein of the extremities; most usually in the common femoral or external iliac vein, which is painful, and in the site of which a hard firm swelling is felt, with general swelling and pain of the veins of the extremity. This pro- ceeds for days and weeks, until the interior channel of the vein is more or less, sometimes completely obstructed. Other symptoms indicative of more or less disorder in the organs of respiration take place. In some instances purulent effusion within the pleura follows. In others there are indications of de- rangement in the action of the heart, as palpitation, forcible pulsa- tion in the cardiac region, irregular or intermittent pulsation and dropsical effusion. At length, after weeks or months, death en- sues, when the following facts are observed. A bloody or lymphy clot more or less firm, sometimes com- pletely solid, in the external iliac and common femoral artery ; the coats of the vein thickened and not collapsing, and their inuer membrane rough and reddened for a considerable space. In some cases a clot of blood or lymph adheres most firmly to the lacinice of the tricuspid valve, or to the walls of the right ven- tricle. When the pulmonary artery is examined, one or two of its branches is filled more or less completely with a brownish firm clot * Atlas Der Pathologischcn Anatomic. Sechste Lieferung. Seite 5. + Case of Pulmonary Phlebitis. By Robert Lee, M. D. Ac. Medico-Chirurgieat Transactions, Vol. xix. p. 45. London, 1835.