GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 500 corresponds to the superficial whitish layer of Gaultier ; and, 6th, the epidermis, or cuticle. The corion of the human skin, (pellis, corium, derma, cutis vera) seems to consist chiefly of very small dense fibres, not unlike those of the proper arter ial coat closely interwoven with each other, and more firmly compacted the nearer they are to its outer or cuticu- lar surface. The inner surface of the corion is of a gray colour; and in almost all parts of the body presents a number of depres- sions varying in size from one-twelfth to one-tenth of an inch, and consequently forming spaces or intervals between them. These depressions, which correspond to eminences in the subjacent adipose tissue, have been termed areolce. They are wanting in the corion of the back of the hand and foot only. The outer or cuticular surface of the corion is quite smooth, of a pale or flesh-red tinge, and is much more vascular than its inner surface. It presents, further, a number of minute conical emi- nences (papilla,) which, according to the recent observations of Gaultier,* and Dutrochet,f are liberally supplied with blood-ves- sels (gemmulce sanguinece,) and are the most vascular part of this membrane. In the ordinary state of circulation and temperature during life these eminences are on a level with the surrounding corion; but when the surface is chilled, this membrane shrinks, while the papillae either continue unchanged, or shrink less propor- tionally, and give rise to the appearance described under the name of goose shin; (cutis anserina.) This surface was said by the older anatomists to present numerous openings, orifices, or pores; but. according to G ordon, if we trust to mere observation, no openings of this kind can be recognized, either by the eye or the microscope, except those of the sebaceous follicles. The hairs, indeed, are found to issue from holes in the corion, but they fill them up com- pletely. In certain situations, for instance at the entrance of the external auditory hole, at the tip of the nose, on the margins of the eyelids, in the arm-pits, at the nipple, at the skin of the pubes, round the anus, and the female pudendum, are placed minute orifices, from which exudes an oleaginous fluid, which is quickly indurated. These openings lead into small sacs or cavities called follicles, (folheuh,) * Recherches sur l’org. de la pean, &c. Paris, 1809 and 1811. | Observations sur la structure, &c. Journal de Phys. Mai 181 9, and Observations sur la structure do la peau, Jour. Compl. Yol. V.