GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 156 takes place in the subcutaneous and intermuscular cellular tissue after an abscess, in the female breast or male testis, and the liver of both sexes, after inflammation, and in the pulmonic tissue after an attack of peripneumony. In the glands now mentioned, and even in the prostate gland, inflammatory induration has been re- peatedly mistaken for scirrhous induration. This error the accu- rate pathologist will avoid. Inflammatory induration occasionally disappears, and is never attended with acute pain. Scirrhous in- duration never disappears, hut proceeds to disorganizing softening, and atomical mortification, and is always attended with stinging darting pain, and flushes of burning heat. Along with the state of induration, the textures are often ren- dered brittle and lacerable. This is seen in the arteries, the ten- dons, and the bones. yj. Gangrene or Mortification. This is much less frequent than has been supposed. It may occur in the skin, in mucous mem- branes, in fibrous structures, especially tendons, in bone, in carti- lage, and in the substance of the lungs. In dry gangrene, (necro- sis, ustilago, vial des ardens,) which is the most perfect specimen of the death of parts. It affects skin, cellular membrane, muscle, tendon, ligament, artery, vein, periostetim, bone, and cartilage in- discriminately and generally. Its anatomical character consists in coagulation of the blood in the vessels, always the capillary, some- times the larger branches. But whether this be the cause or the effect of the death of the parts is uncertain. A fact formerly men- tioned regarding the influence of ossification of the arteries in pro- ducing gangrene of the toes, feet, and legs in old persons would seem to show that it is the cause. The phenomena of the dry gan- grene, or that produced by spurred rye and bad food, on the other hand, might favour the notion, that coagulation of blood is the ef- fect. The gangrene produced by tight ligature, and in the case ot tumours, may be referred to either head. 6. Fever. In this disease, whatever be its form, intermittent, remittent, or continued, the capillary vessels are the principal seat of disorder. Nor is the affection confined to the capillaries ol one region, of one organ, or of one tissue. The seat of fever is to be sought neither in the capillaries of the brain and spinal chord, nor in those of the lungs, nor in those of the alimentary caual, but it is diffused over the minute ramifying communications ol the aortic 4