507 SKIN. continuous, conterminous with the redness, and like it bounded by a distinctly circumscribed edge, is uniformly observed. Superficial cutaneous inflammation being seated in the extensive vascular net-work, (rete vasculosum, reseau voscvlaire,) of the co- rion, always destroys to a greater or less extent its scarf-skin, which comes away in small portions or scales, sometimes in larger pieces, while a new but thinner and more transparent scarf-skin is formed. The process by which these changes are effected is termed desqua- mation, and is observed in measles, scarlet fever, nettle-rash, rose- rash, common rash, and rose when it does not proceed to the for- mation of blebs. As the process thus defined forms a good mode of distinguishing its varieties when seated in the outer or cuticular corial surface, I adopt it on the present occasion. According to the definition above given, it comprehends the fol- lowing-diseases :—Measles, rash-fever or scarlet fever, nettle-rash, rose-rash, common rash. This must be regarded as the simplest form of cutaneous inflam- mation. It may indeed be doubted whether it can justly be termed inflammation; for though the capillaries of the cuticular surface of the corion are unnaturally distended with blood, and the usual functions of secretion and perspiration are suspended, it does not induce those consequences which succeed the inflammatory process in other tissues, or even in the same tissue, in a state of unequivocal inflammation. It may, however, be remarked, that, in other re- spects, the phenomena of the disorders referred to this head afford fair examples of inflammatory action. The skin is permanently red, either continuously or in patches, or in spots of definite figure, diffusely swelled, and unusually warm, or rather hot and dry. Its sensations are also deranged; for the parts are either painful, smarting, or itching, as in nettle-rash, rose-rash, and common rash, or the skin is generally tense and sore, as in measles and scarlet fever. In each of these diseases, also, the capillaries of the outer or cuticular surface of the corion are inordinately distended with blood, which appears to move very slowly, or stand entirely mo- tionless in them. The skin of a person cut off during the progress of measles or scarlet fever is marked by innumerable minute&ves- sels disposed in various modes, arborescent, asteroid, reticular, &c.; and, in some instances, minute specks of blood are effused on the corion or into its substance. In scarlet fever, confined chiefly to the skin, the outer surface of the corion of the face, neck, and