110 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. inflammation or similar causes, and in consequence of the applica- tion of ligatures, all arterial canals being obliterated a little above and a little below, sometimes a good space from the point at which the ligature has been applied. 14. Arctation or Obliteration of the Aorta at the definite-point. The species of obliteration, or sometimes only of obstruction, which here deserves notice, is one which takes place always at a definite or fixed point in the aorta. This consists in a peculiar arctation or contraction of the aorta, in the arch at its farther end, or rather at that point of the arch which is beyond the origin of the left carotid and left subclavian arteries. Of this species of ob- literation I met with one case in my own sphere of observation: and I have collected from various sources other nine cases; and since that time three or four more cases have been published, so that thirteen cases altogether have now been recorded and described. In the whole of these cases the arctation or contraction was observed at the point specified, viz. where the ductus arteriosus, converted into a ligament, joins the aorta. It appears in the form of a deep annular indentation surrounding the entire cylinder of the artery, though sometimes more deep at one side than at another; and in almost all the cases this indentation is greatest towards the convex side of the vessel, and least towards the concave and the attachment of the ductus arteriosus. In general the arch of the aorta becomes small immediately after giving off the left carotid and left subclavian, and diminishes greatly, though progressively, to the point of oblite- ration. In some cases the aorta at the point of obliteration and for some space around it, is lined or penetrated with osteo-steatoma- tous matter, and is much indurated. (Otto’s Case, Craigies Case.) When I published the first edition of this work, and when the only known cases were those by M. Paris, Dr Graham, Mr W in- stone, M. Otto, and A. Meckel of Bern, though the phenomena of these cases satisfied me of the peculiar nature ot the arctation of the aorta, yet it would have been premature to have drawn from so small a number of facts the conclusions which I have since been enabled to deduce. From comparing the whole ten cases, and considering what I observed in the case dissected by myself, I in- fer that the contraction and obliteration when it takes place, de- pends on the same action which closes the ductus arteriosus being extended into the aorta. It must be remembered that in the foetus the pulmonary artery, consists, as it were, of three branches, one going to the right lung, one to the left, both small, andvone to the