VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. 129 not larger than peas. When these are examined, they are found to be not abscesses, but the veins of the lungs filled with purulent matter. The veins of the arm are at the same time thickened in their walls, and contain lymph and purulent matter. These ap- pearances I observed in the body of a young man, on whom vene- section had been performed three weeks previously for the removal of symptoms of peritonitis. Similar phenomena were seen by Y el- peau in a case of amputation. In other instances the intermuscular cellular tissue, either of an arm or a leg is attacked; and purulent collections more or less ex- tensive are deposited in them. At the same time one or more of the joints, as the shoulder-joint or the knee-joint, may be attacked with acute pain, aggravated by motion and pressure, swelling and heat; and in no long time it is observed that fluid has been form- ed within the joint This is most commonly purulent, from in- flammation of the synovial membrane. After it has taken place, the synovial membrane is removed by ulceration; the cartilages are partially or entirely destroyed in the same manner; and either the joint becomes ankylosed by the adhesion of the lympby effusion, or the patient is destroyed by the long-continued severe irritation on the constitution. When the veins of the womb have been the seat of inflammation, if the morbid action do not terminate fatally, it is occasionally fol- lowed by the same train of phenomena as have been now enume- rated ;—purulent deposits within the pleura, purulent deposits in the intermuscular cellular tissue of the extremities, and purulent de- posits within the joints, most usually the knee-joint. The most fa- vourable case is that of purulent deposits among the muscles of the extremities, especially the leg. Yet here, often in the process of healing, adhesions between the muscles take place, and lameness is the result. 6. Varix. This consists in permanent dilatation of the venous coats beyond their natural capacity. It is in general, if excessive, confined to one spot; but sometimes a whole vein becomes more or less dilated through its entire course. At the same time it be- comes so tortuous, that this may be received as one of the physical characters of varicose veins. We possess no very precise facts on the exact change which takes place in the venous tunics, whether it be mere dilatation or injury of some kind, and rupture of the proper venous coats. By Meckel it is regarded as simple dilatation i