686 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. be applicable to all the serous membranes, demonstrates their two- fold character of lining the walls of a cavity and covering the organs contained. From an idea of this property the older anatomists applied to them the epithet of membranes succingentes. In tracing the course of the serous membranes, the anatomist observes, that they present productions which float with more or les3 freedom in the cavity formed by the free surface, and which may be generally shown to consist of two folds of the single membrane pro- duced beyond the inclosed organ, but still maintaining the unity of the membrane. Of these prolongations, the most distinct examples are the epiploon and the appendices epiploicce of the peritonaeum. Less manifest instances are the adipose folds of the pleura near the mediastinum, and the bladder-like appearance at the base of the heart, within the pericardium. The synovial fringes in the interior of the synovial membranes, which belong to a subsequent head, are nevertheless of the same general character. Between the folds of these productions there is invariably more or less adipose substance, which indeed is observed, in some quantity, in various parts of the filamentous tissue on the outer surface of the serous membranes in general. Every serous membrane I have above represented as a hollow sac everywhere continuous, and the outer surface of which has no communication with the inner. To this character the only excep- tion is the peritonaeum in the female, which is perforated at two points, corresponding to the upper extremity or orifice of the Fal- lopian or oviferous tubes. This has been already mentioned as the only spot at which the mucous and serous surfaces communicate directly with each other. Every serous membrane may be described as consisting of a very thin, colourless, transparent web or pellicle, through which the tissue of the subjacent organ or parts may be easily recognized; and every serous membrane presents two surfaces, an attached or ad- herent, and a free or unadherent. The attached surface, which is also termed its outer one, is that by which it is connected to the tissue or organ which it covers; it is somewhat irregular, flocculent or tomentose, and is evidently con- nected by fine filamentous tissue. The degree of attachment is very vai’iable in different membranes, and in different points of the same membrane. In general serous membranes adhere much less firmly to the walls of cavities than to the surface of the contained organs.