GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 282 most common in the corpus striatum, or that and the optic thala- mus, and in the crura of the brain. This affection resembles in some respects gangrene of a member from disease and obstruction of its arteries. Pulpy softening presents different characters in different regions of the biain. On the convoluted surface m many bruins there are seen depressed orange-coloured spots about the size of a split pea, and sometimes larger. These spots, which are slightly depressed or hollow, are the remains of previous attacks of softening affecting the convoluted surface. In some instances, especially where they have succeeded injury or violence inflicted on the skull, they are more extensive and deeper; and, while the depressed surface is of the orange-colour, it is also softened, pulpy, not presenting the usual structure ; and there has been a manifest loss of substance. Persons, in whose brains these appearances are observed, are unsteady or tottering in gait, paralytic, and speak inarticulately and thick. Their memory is feeble, sometimes greatly impaired; their in- tellect is sometimes disordered; and in certain cases they are fatuous. When softening affects the central portions of the brain, it con- verts them into a soft, white, cream-like substance. The fornix is either much softened or destroyed ; its posterior and lateral limbs are softened; the septum lucidum is perforated by many holes, or completely broken down, and converted into one large aperture. When softening affects either of the corpora striata or optic tha- larni, it usually assumes the reddish-brown colour, showing that there had been effusion of blood; and sometimes the reddish-brown is mixed with yellow, or greenish-yellow softening, or the wine-lee softening passes into the greenish-coloured softening, showing that blood had been effused, and that suppuration was proceeding. Lastly, in either of the crura, softening is commonly what is called hortcnsia-red, that is, of the deep crimson imitating the co- lour of the flower of the hortcnsia; in short, it is blood recently effused, breaking down and mixed with the cerebral matter. The reason of this is, that hemorrhagic softening in the crura is in ge- neral speedily fatal, that is, it is followed by death within three or four days, and the life of the individual is rarely prolonged to the sixth day. Hemorrhage within the substance of the protuberance is still more rapidly fatal; and in that body accordingly softening, pro- perly so called, is almost never seen. Lastly, it is proper to observe, that, in a large proportion of