MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 667 Much the same changes are observed in the rectum and its sub- mucous tissue in hemorrhoidal disease. This is proved by the tes- timony of Latta,* Benjamin Bell,+ Callisen,} Monteggia,§ Del- pech,|| Chaussier, Larroque, and Calvert.11 This disorder is to be distinguished from varix of the veins of the bowels. I conclude this subject with a few remarks on hemorrhage from the uterine mucous membrane in the state of impregnation. It is generally supposed that hemorrhage taking place at this period is the effect of abortion ; and Denman and some other authors em- ploy a good deal of not very intelligible argument to prove the proposition. It may, however, be demonstrated, that hemorrhage, or, to speak more to the fact, the abnormal state of the uterine ca- pillaries, which leads to hemorrhage, is the cause of abortion ; and that almost no instance of abortion takes place without previous hemorrhagic distension of the uterine or utero-placental capillaries. By Denman himself it is remarked, that “ when abortion is about to happen, there is usually between this (the decidua refiexa) and the outer membrane of the ovum, an effusion of blood, which often insinuates itself through the cellular membrane of the placenta, and between the membranes, giving externally to the whole ovum a tu- mid and unequal appearance, not unlike a lump of coagulated blood, for which it has been frequently mistaken, and then it is popularly called a false conception.”** I have had occasion to ob- serve the phenomena of several abortions with some care; and in every, one I have traced them to some degree of hemorrhage taking place from the uterine or utero-placental vessels. The blood which Denman remarks is found insinuated through the cellular mem- brane of the placenta is derived from the vessels of that body. It is not, therefore, the premature effort of the uterus to contract that constitutes abortion; but the inordinate distension of its vessels, which terminates in hemorrhage, and the occurrence of which then excites the uterus to premature contraction. The vessels of the vitcrus and placenta, naturally full of blood, may, from a variety of causes operating on the mother, become unusually distended, * A Practical System of Surgery, Vol. ii. Chap. iv. p. 34. t A System of Surgery, Vol. vi„ 7. Edit. Chap. xxiv. p. 324. t Systcma Chirurgiae Hodiernia;, Vol. ii. Edit. 4to. p. 120'. § Instituzione Chirurgiche, Vol. viii. Chap. xv. 389. II Precis Elemcntairc, &c. Tome iiimc, Sect. viii. Chap. T, § ii. p. 262. Ii A Practical Treatise on Hemorrhoids, &e. London, 1824. P. 23, 24. ** Principles of Midwifery, Vol. ii. p, 280.