319 BRAIN. way before the knife; and a portion of such a brain is easily lace- rated, and falls down quickly in water. This diminished consist- ence, which, though greatest at the centre, extends through the whole organ, depends partly on the deposition of the proper cere- bral matter being interrupted, and partly on the admixture of se- rous fluid with its minute atoms. The texture or atomic constitu- tion of the organ is not altered. In diabetes a similar change takes place, chiefly from the former cause. In pulmonary consumption, whether depending on chronic bron- chial inflammation, chronic pleurisy, or on tubercular disorganiza- tion, the brain is invariably found softer than natural. When the disease which induces death has continued long, this softness is very considerable, and amounts almost to semifluidity. It may then constitute a true cause of adventitious disease. This state of the brain, combined with a languid and retarded motion of the blood through the cerebral capillaries, may be the pathological cause of the delirium, which, either alone or alternating with coma, not un- frequently precedes the death of phthisical patients. The cerebral capillaries in such subjects I have found large and numerous. Is the density of the brain diminished ? Meckel states that he found a cube of six lines of the brain of a man of 24, cut off by phthisis, to be grain lighter than the same bulk of sound brain. Confinement, with inactivity and low diet, tend to impair the firmness of the brain. Thus in condemned felons and others, who have been imprisoned for some time previous to death, either vio- lent or natural, the brain is found unusually soft. Dr Monro, tertius, formerly Professor of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, who has had numerous opportunities of examining the brains of persons cut off under these circumstances, states that in criminals in general he found the brain unusually soft; and in a young man otherwise healthy, who was put to death for piracy, the brain was so soft that it gave way at the corpus callosum. The softness appears, from the account of Dr Monro, to be greater in- ternally than externally, so that it was impossible to demonstrate the deep-seated parts of the organ.* In opposition to this, how- ever, I must not omit to mention that Littre found the substance of the brain, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata, unusually compact * The Morbid Anatomy of the Brain. By Alexander Monro, M.D., &c. Ac. Vol. I. Edinburgh, 18‘27, p. 3.5 and 160.