522 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. hardness and swelling accompany every example of circumscribed or definite inflammation ; Thirdly, it is not easy to understand in what particular part the lymph could he effused, for the corion does not contain cells or cavities like the filamentous tissue, but the outer surface consists of a smooth dense membrane, abounding in minute blood-vessels; Fourthly, it is as easy and more natural to think that if effusion took place, it would do so into these minute ves- sels. In point of fact, the capillaries of the corion of the pustular redness and hardness are numerous and distended; and I believe that the truest conclusion is, that the redness, hardness, and swel- ling of each pock, consist in the unusual distension of the corial capillaries with blood. Pustular inflammation of the skin naturally terminates in sup- puration, which may be either with or without destruction of the corial tissue. In the variolous phlyctidia, when distinct, destruc- tion of the skin is rare, but may occur. There is reason to infer that it takes place in consequence of a true process of ulceration. According to the observation of John Hunter, there is another mode in which destruction of the corion, and a permanent scar may be effected. u The most certain character,” that is the most cer- tain pathological character, u of the small-pox,” says this writer, u is the formation of a slough, or a part becoming dead by the vari- olous inflammation, a circumstance which hitherto, I believe, has not been taken notice of. This was very evident in the arms of those who were inoculated in the old way, where the wounds were considerable, and were dressed every day ; which mode of treat- ment kept them from scabbing, by which means this process was easily observed; but in the present method of inoculation it is hardly observable. The sore being allowed to scab, the slough and scab unite and drop off together. The same indistinctness at- tends the eruptions on the skin ; and in those patients who die of, or die while in the disease, where we have an opportunity of exa- mining them while the part is distinct, this slough is very evident. This slough is the cause of the pit after all is cicatrized; tor it is a real loss of substance of the surface of the cutis, and in proportion to this slough is the remaining depression.” u The chicken-pox comes the nearest in external appearance to the small-pox; but it does not commonly produce a slough. As there is generally no loss of substance in this case, there can be no pit. But it sometimes happens, although but rarely, that there is