524 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. injected small-pox pustules. These last consisted of circles of long- floating villi at the circumference, but of a white uninjected sub- stance in the centre. This central part Mr Hunter had previously said was a slough formed by the irritation'of the variolous matter.’** He subsequently comes to the conclusion, that on the surface of the skin (corion) lie five membranes, the outermost of which is cuticle, the next two-fold is rete mucosum, and the fourth is the first vascu- lar membrane in which the small-pox pustules are chiefly seated. From these facts and observations, as well as those which it has occurred to myself to make, the following conclusions may be drawn. The phlyctidium or pustule of small-pox consists of a cutaneous inflammation, which may produce;— ls£, Secretion of puriform fluid without permanent injury or de- struction of the corion. In lenticular chicken-pox, and distinct small-pox, there is no doubt that though suppuration takes place from the cuticular surface of the corion, it is not necessarily con- nected with destruction or ulceration of that membrane. 2d, Suppurative ulceration of the corion. In conoidal chicken- pox, in some instances of distinct small-pox, and in many instances of small-pox partially or wholly confluent, each pock proceeds to ul- ceration of the corion. It does not appear that the pock slough de- scribed by Hunter is present in every case. It is admitted by Adams to be wanting in the vesicular small-pox, which appear after cow- pox, and in some other occasions. 3d, Death of numerous spots of the corion constituting sloughs. In some cases of distinct small-pox this has been observed ; but it is most frequent in the confluent eruption. It then appears in the form of a white circular patch lying at the bottom of each pock. 4th, Along with sloughs at individual points, an extensive spread- ing redness of the skin rapidly terminating in sloughs of irregular shape and limits not unfrequently occurs in certain bad forms of variolous eruption. b. Oriental plague I place among the examples of pustular cuta- neous inflammation, because the carbuncle to which its poison gives rise, is, I conceive, an instance of punctuate inflammation oi the corion. I am aware that Wiliam, and after him Bateman, placed this disease among the order of tubercular eruptions. But this they have done, 1 am satisfied, without due consideration either of the characters of the pestilential carbuncle, or of those which they assign to the order of tubercles. * Experiments, &c. p. 41.