MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—TUBERCLES. 1017 cells the small pearly granules which, according to certain authors, are the first genus of phthisis. On the contrary, the matter first seen is that named tubercular matter, which is presented as if secreted by the walls of the small pulmonary blood-vessels.* These views on the first origin of tubercular deposition, were afterwards elaborated and illustrated by M. Schroeder and Dr Carsewell; and they seem from various facts to be most pro- bable. In order to form a clear conception of the origin of the process of tubercular deposition in the lungs, it is necessary to examine these organs in the bodies of persons cut off by other diseases, and in the earlier stages of consumption, when the disease has made little progress. At this stage of the disease it is still uncomplicated with marks of general inflammation of the lung, or its component tissues; and at the worst there is merely topical change. If in this state tubercles be divided and inspected by the aid of the microscope, it then appears that the air-cells of the lungs are filled with some opaque material, which renders them less pellucid the nearer the eye is directed to the edge of the tubercles. The cells filled with pellucid coagulable lymph are harder than the neighbouring sound cells, and do not admit the air, as easily ap- pears by slight pressure in water. This lymph contained in the cells is sometimes so limpid, that the tubercle can scarcely be dis- tinguished by the eye from the sound structure of the lung, and requires the aid of touch. In other spots, however, the centre of the tubercle is already white, and losing its transparency, has become opaque; so that by the aid of the microscope, in the centre of the cell little or nothino- can be distinguished, and their phrietes appear united with the matter of the tubercle, while the adjoining cells still contain trans- parent matter. From this fact the author infers, in opposition to the representation of Laennec and Lorinzer, that in certain air-cells, or in a lobule of the'lung, local inflammation may be developed5 and produce effusion of lymph which obstructs the air-cells. ’ As this exudation proceeds, the walls of the cells are at length compressed on all sides, and not only unite with the contained ymph; but, as the effusion hardens and becomes opaque princi- / Memoir* sur la structure du poumon de 1’homme, &c. &c, ct sur la premiere ori L Pe 78. Parif 1021F“ * J““ <lc Tome