GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 824 scirrhus. Two inferences seem to be established by the cases now noticed. The first is, that these tumours are not in all cases seated in the parotid gland. In the majority of cases they do not at first affect the gland, which is involved only secondarily. Most com- monly they are seated in lymphatic glands or cellular tissue. The second inference is, that the tumours of the kind now noticed cannot in all cases be regarded as scirrhous. It is quite impossible to ad- mit that the tumour in the young person of 19 was scirrhus; and as to the others, there is no very certain evidence that these tu- mours are any thing but strumous glands or swellings. It appears, nevertheless, that these glands are liable to be in- volved in the morbid changes and growths so frequently observed in this region. Lastly, it must be allowed that the most frequent change ob- served in the salivary glands, and perhaps in all glands, is that of induration, (skleroma), in consequence of the effusion of plastic matter during chronic and strumous inflammation, either around their component granules or within these granules. ยง5. The parotid gland is liable to the formation of other structures besides induration and scirrhus. Mr Pole records, in the person of a woman of 47, an instance in which a tumour began to be form- ed in the site of the left parotid gland about 11 years previously. This tumour steadily and progressively increased in size, affecting also the submaxillary glands, until it caused death by suffocation, by compressing the trachea, oesophagus, and blood-vessels. After death, when it was removed, it weighed ten pounds and a half; and contained every kind of substance which usually fills steatoma, meliceris, atheroma, lipoma, and even carcinoma, enclosed in cysts.* Similar to this, though observing an inverted order in succession, is the case given by Cheselden, who shortly states, that he was pre- sent at the inspection of a woman who was suffocated by a tumour which began in the submaxillary gland, and extended itself from the sternum to the parotid gland in six weeks time, and in nine weeks killed her. It was a true scirrhus, he adds, and weighed twenty-six ounces.f * A Case of Extraordinary Diseased Enlargement of the Parotid and Submaxillary Glands. By T. Pole, Surgeon. Memoirs of Medical Society, Vol. iii. p. 546. Lon- don, 1792. s f The Anatomy of the Human Body. London, 1784, p. 143.