BRAIN. 247 or central part of the cylindroid process, is continuous, or connect- ed with the upper surface of the central band of the organ; and if the terms of origin or derivation be admitted, may be said to be derived from it; while the thin white plate which is rolled over the gray band, and gives the hippocampus its cylindrical figure, is con- nected with the under surface of the same central band, or that part which the usual nomenclature styles the vault (fornix) of the brain. Such, as nearly as language can represent, is the configuration of the cylindroid process,—an object which it is impossible to know too accurately, if we reflect, that it forms the entire outer border of the great communication between the convoluted and figurate surfaces of the brain. If, by the method now described, a clear idea of this disposition is not communicated, it is expedient to use another contrivance, which I have rarely found to fail in demon- strating the facts which I wish to impress. Let a brain, divested of its membranes, be inverted ; and when the opening behind the outer margin of the cerebral limbs has been exposed, let a deep transverse incision between the feet of the hippocampus of each side be made. This incision must not touch the cylindroid process, but going deep into the substance of the organ, will detach the whole of that part which contains the several objects of the figurate sur- face from the anterior part of the hemispheres. The portion thus separated will, however, still adhere by the sides to the substance of the hemispheres; and other incisions must be made, following the direction of the outer or lateral margin of the striated bodies demy of Sciences in 1787, detailing its peculiarities with some minuteness, under the name of “ Bord externe et dentele de la Corne d’Ammon.” He subsequently repre- sented it in his great work in the year 1786, under the name of gray, cortical, external notched portion of the Horn of Ammon, and speaks of it familiarly enough by the term of corps godronnec. Bichat, however, whose descriptive anatomy was published in 1802, though his accurate manner prevented him from overlooking it, and led him to give a sufficiently minute account of it, boldly asserted, that it had been entirely neglected by authors. Dr Gordon of this place, who was quite aware of this oversight in Bichat, took special care, in demonstrating it, to notice the merit of Vicq-D’Azyr ; and this fact he mentions shortly in a note, in his description of the gray band. None of these eminent anatomists liave'been altogether right in this matter ; and the truth is, that Vicq-D’Azyr is not the first who delineated this body. The gray indented band is distinctly represented by Pierre Tarin, in the second en- graving of his Adversaria ; and although this had been published in 1750, thirty years before the engravings of Vicq-D’Azyr, yet it was requisite for the latter writer to make it the subject of a particular memoir, and Bichat to write a description of it, before it seems to have been known as part of the organ.