906 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. probability, the small hydatids are or were attached. As it is not possible in these spherical bladders to recognize either head or tail, it is from this circumstance that Laennec applied to them the name of acephalocyst. Of the internal eminences some are irregular, white, more or less extended in surface ; others are spherical, white, opaque, united in greater or smaller number, and showing the transparence of the enveloping cyst in their intervals. The smallest of these bodies have no cavity. The largest have a small cavity, which enlarges as the granulation itself increases. In other instances these granulations are not opaque, but colourless and transparent, like the walls of the acephalocyst itself. Lastly, there are some in which colourless granules present not rounded but varied forms; some elongated, others cuboidal, others flattened. The largest, which approach the globular figure, when punctured, discharge a little serous fluid. These bodies, indeed, are the prolific gemmules by which the ani- mals are propagated. The cyst appears to be a general envelope. The cavity of the acephalocyst as seen in the liver is filled by a liquid, most commonly quite limpid, and which has all the proper- ties of pure or slightly albuminous water. The acephalocyst, it has been stated, contains others within it. In general one large acephalocyst contains many of smaller size. These again contain others still smaller; and it has been inferred that in this succession they may proceed to a great extent. This arrangement is probably the strongest proof of their living charac- ter ; for it appears to show that one hydatid may produce many. Of the animal nature of these bodies, the best authorities enter- tain little doubt.* * Neither Rudolphi nor Bremser appear willing to admit as a distinct species of hydatid the cysts described as the acephalocyst. That distinction was first made by Laennec in 1005 and 1814, and afterwards illustrated by Liidersen and IT. Cloquet, and adopted by most of the French authors. Laennec, Rudolphi mentions hastily, giving no opinion of the merits of the distinction. And Bremser states that he lost the notes which he had made in Paris on Laennec’s dissertation. Laennec distinguishes these cysts, regarding them as animals, into three species ; 1st, The acephalocyst with ova or true eggs ; A. pyriformis, simplex, vcsicularis, cor- poribus ovatis praedita intus ; 2d, The acephalocyst with sprouts or gemmulae: A. surculigera, A. pyriformis, simplex, vcsicularis, surculis praedita intus ; and 3d, The acephalocyst with granules ; A. granulosa, A. pyriformis, simplex, vcsicularis, granulis intus praedita- Thus it appears that these three species differ ;—in the first presenting m its walls small spherical white opaque bodies, little adherent and often hollow in the cen-