113 VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. side or pulmonary division of the heart and the different oigans in which their minute branches are ramified. Every venous tube greater than one line in diameter consists of three kinds of distinct substance. The outermost is a modification of the filamentous tissue, (membrana cellulosa,) and though less compact, and less thick than the arterial filamentous envelope, is in every other respect quite similar, and is in general intimately connected with it. The innermost (membrana intima) is a smooth, very thin membrane. Between these is found a tunic somewhat thicker, which is termed the proper venous tissue, (tunica propria vence.) The structure and aspect of this proper membrane shall he first considered. 1st, When the loose filamentous tissue in which the blood-ves- sels are inclosed, and the more delicate and firm layer immediately contiguous to the veins, are removed, the observer recognises a red or brown-coloured membrane, not thick or strong, but somewhat tough, which is the outer surface of the proper venous tunic. If dissected clean, it is tolerably smooth; but however much so it can be made, a glass of moderate powers, or even a good eye, will per- ceive numerous filaments adhering to it, which appear to be the residue of the cellular envelope. According to Bichat parallel longitudinal fibres, forming a very thin layer, may be distinguished in the larger veins; but he ad- mits, although they are quite real, that they are always difficult to he seen at the first glance. Iu the trunk of the inferior great vein, (vena cava inferior,) they are always seen, he observes, more dis- tinctly than in that of the superior; and they are always more ob- vious in the divisions of the former than in those of the latter ves- sel, and also in the superficial than in the deep-seated veins. These longitudinal fibres, he asserts, are more distinct in the saphena than in the crural vein, which accompanies the artery. Lastly, he re- marks, these fibres are proportionally more conspicuous in branches than in trunks.* Notwithstanding the apparent correctness of this description, Magendie informs us, he has sought in vain for the fibres of the proper venous membrane; and he remarks,- that, though he has observed very numerous filaments interlacing in all directions, yet these assume the longitudinal and parallel appearance only when * Anatomie Generate, Tom. I. p. 3.99. H