879 HEPATIC PHLEBITIS. are found within the gland, these are the result either of inflamma- tion of the parenchyma or of the transporting property of the veins, which, however, themselves remain unaffected. Inflammation may nevertheless affect veins either spontaneously or from the irritation of foreign bodies. _ Lambron records the case of a man of 69 who was attacked with squeamishness, sickness, uneasiness in the right hypochondre and irregular shiverings. In the course of four days, jaundice ap- peared slightly, and increased in the subsequent three days. At the end of one week, the shiverings, which had not been very dis- tinct, were present in the evening, generally with hiccup, and imi- tated the rigors of ague. The symptoms continued with great and increasing weakness; and the patient expired on the 25th day from the appearance of well-marked symptoms. J ^spection revealed the following state of parts. The portal vein was hlled with wine-lee matter and purulent matter; in the trunk of the superior mesenteric vein a fish-bone, which, implanted in he head of the pancreas, had entered the anterior wall of this vein from before backwards, and was fixed in the posterior wall of the Me' Ve‘"' ib v°n? ab°Ut 3 cent!me‘res> or one inch and a little more than a line long; as thick as a stout pin; yellowish hard and resisting; and the extremity was twisted like a cork-screw The cavity of the mesenteric vein was obliterated by slate-gray false mem brane. Below this obliteration the divisions of the superior mesente- ric wei e sound, but contained fibrinous clots of blood. The sDlenio vein was in size, colour, and consistence normal; but it contained a qnanfty of wine-Iee coloured matter; and the same matter was und in the divisions of the portal vein, while its sinus was filled with purulent matter mixed with blood. The liver nresented metastatic abscess ; but its tissue at the level of the portal sinus was very much softened. The sub-hepatic veins were sound * Ihe same observer gives the case of a man of 48 who had he„ d for eight days with debility, slight fever, and ^s ined eren --i m, i;: * Observations ^Inflammation de Veines di. Fnio , , , duile par une arete de poisson ; 2do, des veines sus-hennt™°’ ^ ^ Veine-Porte P™- abees metastatique. Par Ernest Lambron. ArchivedV°iSinage d’Un bx. p. 129. ircnives Generales. Jum 1842. Tom