333 BlUIN. gray tint. The surrounding cerebral substance is almost invari- ably softened. Water is effused into the ventricles; and if the in- durated mass is seated near the convoluted surface, the membranes become opaque and thick, and morbidly adherent. The following references to the cases will communicate some idea of the nature of this change. Felix Platerus, lib. i. p. 108.—In the fore part of the left hemisphere of a man of 24, who had headach, amaurosis, and mental imbecility, a globular tumour like a gland, as large as a hen’s egg, but irregular, and like a pine cone ; its interior substance white, firm, and uniform, like boiled egg, but harder, inclosed in a firm vascular membrane. Weight 14 oz. Buonaventura Perotti in Raccolta d’Opuscoli Scientifici e Fisiologici in Venezia, Tom. xlvii. p. 339. 1751.—A woman of 25, who had headach for several years, died lethargic. The convoluted gray matter of the left hemisphere was destroyed. In the right hemisphere, though externally sound, a hard body as large as a nut penetrated from the gray to the white interior substance.—Commentar. de Rebus in Scientia Na- turali et Medicina observatis, Vol. iii. Meckel, Memoires de l’Academie Royale de Berlin, 1761. Tom. vii.—In a man of 50, right hemisphere externally harder, more resisting and more elastic than natural. Left hemisphere before the same ; posterior lobe soft ; upper posterior part of left he- misphere firm ; pia mater opaque and thickened; arachnoid adhering to divra mater; substance of the hemisphere posterior to corpus striatum soft, diffluent, and moist with fetid serum. In the posterior part of the left hemisphere, behind the ergot, a hard body, the size of three nuts, consisting of three spherical protuberances, aggregated to- gether, weighing 2 oz. and 2 drs.; surrounding substance soft and pulpy. In a child of 4, the white matter of the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere a scir- rhus (hardened mass) the size of a nut ; surrounding part vascular and injected. Roederer, J. G. Programma de Cerebri Scirrho, Goettingse, 1762. This after some search 1 have not been able to see. Vincenzio Galli negli atti dell’ Academia della Scienzi di Siena detta Fisico-critici, Tom. ii.—A man of 40, who had laboured under severe cephalalgia, which was relieved by venesection, but afterwards recurred with giddiness and delirium, terminating in death. Inflammation of the membranes ; effused serum in the cavities ; in the right ventricle, stretching from the optic thalamus to the corpus striatum, a tumour as large as a hen’s egg, with irregular surface, and external substance dense, firm, and ash- coloured. M. Marcot, chez Memoires de la Societe de Montpellier, Tom. i. p. 334. Lyon, 1766.—A man of 47, attacked with giddiness, headach, impaired vision, palsy of right side, followed by paraplegia, convulsions, lethargy, and apoplectic death. The poste- rior part of the brain corresponding to the tentorium, to the branches and limbs of the vault (fornix), was scirrhous and almost cartilaginous, requiring to be divided by good scissors, and grating against the cutting instrument. F. Lallemand, Recherehes Anatomico-Pathologiques. Paris, 1820. Lettre 2xieme, No. 30. 1820.—A girl of 14, with right hemiplegy, followed after four months by paraplegy, insensibility of the skin, palsy of the sphincters, and paralytic dyspnoea ad- vancing progressively to fatal asphyxia. The white matter of the left hemisphere, immediately above the lateral ventricle, for the space of l,j inch long, 1 inch broad, and 2 or 3 lines thick, converted into a hard substance like Gruyere cheese, and re- sisting the knife. Dr Abercrombie, Researches, &c. p. 431. Notes.—In a child of 4, unable to walk,