908 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. colon, or to the surface of the body. When they cause progressive ulceration into any part of the intestinal canal, they are generally discharged through the rectum. Sometimes there is reason to be- lieve, if situate near the upper surface of the liver, they may cause inflammation and ulceration through the diaphragm into the lungs, and be thence expelled by cough and expectoration. Lastly, in se- veral instances, they have come to the surface of the body, and formed a pointing fluctuating tumour, on puncturing which the escape of purulent matter containing the debris of hydatids, has shown the true nature of the case. Of this latter termination, va- rious cases are recorded by Heuerman, Rebentisch, Yeats, Sher- win,* * * § Placido Portal,f and other observers. c. Echinococcus.—Another of this family of parasitical animals, much more rare, is found in the liver. The Echinococcus is a ve- sicular parasite with a pyriform body, globular, or round at head, and with the caudal extremity much narrower, but also rounded. The head is furnished with a circlet or ring, surmounted by a row of hooklets or prominent spikes, slightly incurvated at the extre- mity,—the whole apparatus forming a sort of diadem or coronet. Of the occurrence of this animal in the liver only three cases are recorded. One is contained in the Museum of the College of Sur- geons, London, and was originally in the possession of John Hunter. The second occurred to Mr Rose of Swaffham, who observed them in the purulent discharge from an abscess in the liver, which he had opened.^; In this instance, the Echinococci were associated with ace- phalocysts. The third is recorded by Mr Curling, who found them in a cyst in the left lobe of the liver, in the body of a man aged 71, who had died in the London Hospital of disease of the urinary organs. § As the cyst in this last case, when first opened, presented the usual appearances of the acephalocyst, and the peculiai chaiacteis of the inhabitants of the cyst were only ascertained by microscopi- cal examination, it comes to be a question, whether, in many othei * Case of a very large Abscess containing Hydatids connected with the Liver ter- minating favourably. By H. C. Sherwin. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, VoL six. p. 223. Edinburgh, 1823. + Annali Universali di Medicina, Vol. xcvii. 1841. + On the Vesicular Entozoa, and particularly Hydatids. By C. B. Rose, Swaffham, Norfolk. London Medical Gazette, Vol. xiii. p. 204. London, 1834. § A case of a rare species of Hydatid (Echinococcus Jlommis), found m the Hum Liver By T. B. Curling, Esq. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vo), xxm. p. London, 1840.