GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 450 the absorption produced by tumours, aneurisms, and other compres- sing agents; (Louis, Wilmer;) and the peculiar absorption described by Mr Russell.* 8. A similar process, by causing suppurative destruction or even death of the periosteum, may kill the subjacent bone (nekrosis,) which then becomes white, yellow, or black, and presents a de- nuded but uniform surface, bounded at certain points by an irre- gular rough line; (crena.) This line, which denotes the establish- ment of ulceration on the confines of the living bone, becomes more complete and deeper, till the dead portion is loosened and removed. This process is denominated exfoliation, and the part so removed is said to be exfoliated.f By Weidmann, who justly re- marks that these terms are too limited, the process is designated by the general name of separation ; while the part separated is distin- guished by the epithet ramentum. Though it takes place chiefly in the bones of the skull and in the front of the tibia, it may occur in the lower jaw,f in those of the pelvis,§ in the femur, and wherever the structure is close and compact. In this manner the odontoid process of the epistrophe (vertebra dentata) has been known to be removed. || In bones containing much cancellated structure, for instance the vertebral, sternum, the carpal and tarsal bones, this suppurative destruction and death of the periosteum produces not death and exfoliation, but caries or ulceration, (regy5wi/), with death of minute particles of bone, (separatio insensibilis.) E. Certain forms of periosteal inflammation give rise simulta- neously to osseous deposition and ulceration or caries. Thus no- dose inflammation of the tibia and fibula may terminate in ulcers of tbe periosteum, and produce irregular deposition on the surface of these bones, which appear thick, but without the usual aspect of healthy bone, present irregularly shaped masses of structure, partly like honey-comb cells and partitions, partly like confused network. The course of phenomena here is first chronic thickening and in- duration of the periosteum, with deposition of bone beneath it; * Edinburgh Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. I. p. 74. -)- Memoires sur PExfoliation des Os, par M. Tenon, dans Mem. de l’Academie R. des Sciences, 1758. P. 661, &c., and 1760. See, among others, good cases in Ilow- ship's Practical Observations, Case 107, pp. 404, and 113, p. 434. + Exfoliations of the lower jaw from disease or injury of the alveolar processes are common. The hasty and reckless use of the tooth-key I have known produce not a few examples of exfoliation of both jaw-bones. § In Mr J. Bell's case of Gluteal Aneurism exfoliation from the ilium and sacrum took place. Principles, Vol. I. p. 423. || Mr James Syme’s Case in Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. XXV. p. 311.