MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS—SPINOUS MELANOSIS. 1041 thus encroach on the lung. In the other mode, the melanotic mat- ter is either infiltrated into the substance of the pulmonic filamento- cellular tissue, or it is deposited in cysts contained or formed within the same. Of this, instances are given by various authors, amoim- others, by Mr Langstaff. The melanotic deposit is liable t« occur in conjunction with the enkephaloid. In the first variety of the second case, the melano- tic matter appears in the form of black or blue specks, patches, or lines and streaks disseminated through the pulmonic parenchyma. In this instance, they are probably in the interlobular filamento- cellular tissue. In spurious melanosis, the black matter is diffused pretty regu- larly through the whole lung. The expectoration is always more or less black; and the bronchial tubes are filled with black or dark- blue puriform mucus. The bronchial membrane is tinged of a I ^ai k co^our 5 an(l the substance of the lung is more or less exten- I sively black ; while it is often occupied with blue or black indurated patches and masses, and not unusually with tubercular masses and .From a lung this state, a large quantity of black-co- loured fluid may be expressed. The cause of the blackening in spurious melanosis or the coal- miners’ lung is various. In one set of cases, the black matter has ieen found to be coal in a state of very minute division, most pro- bably mechanical. In another set of cases, it has been represented to be carbonaceous matter inhaled from the smoke of the lamps and candles used by the miners. In a third set, again, it has been maintained, that it is the carbonaceous matter inhaled after explo sions of the adjoining strata by means of gunpowder. .For farther information on all these points, I refer to the papers by Dr James Gregory,* Mr Graham,f Dr William Thomson,! Dr Hamilton and Dr Stratton ;§ and a memoir by M. Natalis Guillot.|| * Case of peculiar Black Infiltration of the whole Lungs resembling „ James C. Gregory, M. D. Edin. Med. & Surg. Journ. Vol xxxTn2, * t On the Existence of Charcoal in the Lungs Bv TV, n , ' Edln‘ J831- &c- Edinburgh Medical and Cases by G. Hamilton, M. D. &c Case 2d FdinH i , LdlnburSh> 1884. «I. Vol. Mil. p. m. EdinbigbTissT 6 ***>*»■ i On Black Expectoration and the Deposition of Black M-nter In n t ticularly as occurring in Coal-mincrs, &c. By William T1 * tu r'° Far' Trans. Part I. Vol. xx. p. 2110. Lend. 1837 • and P I'T"”’ ' Med-Cb'>- § Case of Anthracosis or Black Infiltration of the 1 I °T ^ P'Tf10' Lond- 183°- .on M. D. Hfc Med. »„d |] Archives Gcnerales, T. lxvii. p. l. pnriS) 1845 1 g"’ 18d8- 3 v