INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—PERFORATION. frequent, but affects mostly persons coining from the provinces. In London it is also not uncommon. In Manchester I have seen it affecting the Irish labourers. In Edinburgh it is not very com- mon ; and a physician treating from 200 to 300 patients in the course of the year my see not above three or four cases, and only one of these fatal. In certain seasons it is more common than in others. Thus several cases took place in the winter of 1842-1843 ; and a few cases took place in the end of 1845 and beginning of 1846. At the close of the latter year it was again appearing. In Edinburgh it is seen in railway labourers, and persons en- gaged in similar out-door labour. In Glasgow it is more frequent than in Edinburgh, and is seen mostly among the Irish. It appears to me not to be contagious, but to affect spontane- ously, or in consequence of causes, not easily determined, the persons attacked. From the testimony of various foreign observ- ers, as Frenzel, Ebel, Grossheim, Stannius,* Chomel,f Lesser,J and Cramer,§ it appears to depend either on telluric miasma, or on some atmospheric conditions. c. Perforation.—Though any part of the small intestine from the duodenum to the caecum may be the seat of ulcers, they are most numerous and largest in the lower part of the ileum. In this part of the tube the ulcerative process may advance so far as to affect the submucous tissue, the muscular layer, and the snbserous tissue, upon which the peritonaeum generally gives way, and laceration or perforation takes place. That the peritonaeum is removed by ab- sorption, or rather gives way when no longer supported by the col- lateral tissues, may be inferred from the fact observed by M. Louis, to whom we are indebted for the best and fullest account of this accident;—that the margin of the ulcers in which perforation takes place is sharp and clean; that the mucous and submucous tissue are destroyed nearly to the same extent; and that the muscular is less, and the peritonaeum scarcely at all destroyed. The effect of perforation is, as in the case of the stomach, 1st, * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xlviii. p. 145. t Lemons de Clinique Medicale, faites a L’Hotel Dieu de Paris. Par le Profes- seur A. F. Chomel. Paris, 1834 : and Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xlix. p. 492, and 1. p. 175. t Die Entzundung und Verschwarung der Sehleimhaut des Verdauungs Kanales als selbstandige Krankhcit, dargestellt von Ferdinand Lesser. • Berlin, 1830. 8vo. Mlt Kupfertafeln. § Der Abdominal Typhus. Monographische Skizze. Von Dr F. Cramer. Cassel, 1840. 8vo. ss. 128.