GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 568 in resolution, but more generally produces specks or opacity of the cornea, ulceration, pustules, or chronic inflammation and thicken- ing of the cornea, rendering that tunic opaque. In adults, pro- ceeding much in the same manner, its effects are generally more serious. If it do not at an earlier period of the disease cause opa- city, the cornea may he ruptured partially or generally, so as to allow the escape of the humours. The membranous inflammation becoming in all cases also chronic, the surface of the conjunctiva becomes irregular by numerous minute hardish eminences or gra- nulations; and this granular state of the palpebral conjunctiva, though originally an effect, becomes afterwards a cause of further inflamma- tion. The puriform ophthalmy originating from the gonorrhoeal poison, though differing in its cause, is the same in its pathological effects. ft A pustular form of ophthalmy is sometimes observed. It consists in the appearance of minute eminences of the sclerotic mu- cous membrane near the circumference of the cornea. These bo- dies, which may be considered either as aphthae or pustules, are conoidal, and surrounded by a cluster of vessels which run into them either all round in a circular area, or from one side, most commonly the temporal. When they are situate a line or two from the margin of the cornea, they are broad and flattened. This dis- ease seldom under proper treatment advances to suppuration or ul- ceration ; and I have seen it disappear in thirty hours after being first seen. It seems in some instances to consist in a punctuate deposition of lymph, in others to be a peculiar concentration of blood-vessels. It is not impossible for it, however, to proceed to suppuration and form a minute abscess of the conjunctiva. When these pustular eminences appear in the corneal mucous membrane, they generally pass into ulcers. In some instances, with abatement of pain, diminution of swell- ing, and alleviation of other symptoms, the vessels appear much distended and distinct, though tortuous, the membrane is thickened in patches or continuously, and sero-albuminous fluid is deposited in spots or along the course of the vessels. These appearances mark the transition of the disease into the chronic form. Theii persistence too often leaves the superficial speck {nebula), the ti i- angular web, (pterygium), or the opaque spot, {leucoma.) § 2. Watery eye; Epiphora.—The mucous membrane of the c}e and eyelids communicates with that of the nostrils by the narrow tube termed lacrymal duct. A minute capillary opening at the 3