765 GLANDULAR TISSUE. This large orifice speedily diverges into several similar orifices ; and, when these are exposed by sections, they are observed to ter- minate in spherical and spheroidal cavities, in which are similar orifices leading to similar cavities,—all communicating in the same manner with each other. The size and capacity of these cavities varies according to the size of the animal. Thus in a sturgeon six feet long they are in general about one inch or more in diameter. In smaller animals they are not more than half an inch ; and in large individuals they are larger. These dimensions, nevertheless, it is difficult to specify; as their accuracy depends much on the shape of the cavities, which is not exactly spherical, but only irre- gularly so. The pancreatoid organ, therefore, of the sturgeon consists of a series of rounded cavities communicating with each other, and with the duodenum by one general large orifice. The whole of these cavities are lined by a membrane quite similar to that which forms the inner lining of the duodenum; and for a particular description of which I refer to another work.* The surface of this inner membrane evidently secretes a liquid which is applied to the alimentary mass in a peculiar manner. The liquid does not flow by the outlet into the duodenum. But the alimentary mass, after it has been received from the stomach, is conveyed in successive portions into the communicating cells of the pancreas ; there the secreted liquid is effused on them; and alter they have undergone its proper action they are expelled ; and other portions of the alimentary mass are introduced in order that they may be impregnated with pancreatic fluid in like manner. In all the specimens of the sturgeon which I have examined I have always found the pancreatoid cells quite filled with chyme or alimentary pulpy matter, evidently in a more advanced stage of igestion, than that contained in the stomach and pyloric end of the The arrangement is singular in this respect, that the chyme is conveyed into an organ to be subjected to the operation of its se- creted product; and after this, is not conveyed through the organ, for which there is no provision, but is withdrawn from its cells, djf Miff ’PeC“S °f thG Stur8«m- (Acipenser Slurio.) By David ST mn 18*1 ’ “ °f the We" Natural Society. Vol. vi. p.