GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 26 diseases and in pregnancy, there is in the vessels of some part of the body a process of separating fibrin or fluid fibrin in the shape of lymph, which afterwards undergoes spontaneous coagulation, it may be regarded as most probable, that, while the process of nor- mal nutrition, that is, deposition of fluid fibrin in the different tex- tures and organs, is suspended or diminished, the albuminous mat- ter which ought to be employed in this process is left free in the blood, and therefore is found in that fluid. Buffy blood is less thick than healthy blood; but its liquor san- guinis contains more fibrin. The red globules are very numerous, and they are aggregated rapidly and closely. (W. Jones, Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, lx.) In fever, and especially in typhous fever, the blood loses part of its spontaneously coagulating property. The serum is diminished in quantity, or rather is not separated from the clot, which is loose, flaccid, and commonly dark-coloured, and as it were semifluid. 4. Oil in the blood.—In certain states of the system the serum is observed to be turbid, opalescent in colour, and not unlike milk. The clot is then in general of a peculiar pink colour, whether from some intrinsic change, or the optical effect of the milky serum. This state of the serum is owing to its being mixed with fatty mat- ter, or rather oil. If serum of this kind be agitated in a phial with a quantity of sulphuric ether, the latter dissolves the oil, which is after some time found floating in the form of a clear yellow oil on the surface of the serum, which is then clear and of its usual characters. The oil may be then withdrawn by the pipette or poured off, and is found to leave on paper an oleaginous stain. This state of the blood, which was originally observed by Tul- pius, Schenke, Morgagni, and Hewson and several of his friends,* and afterwards by Dr Traill, Dr Ziegler, and Dr Christison, takes place in various wasting diseases, and is often observed in granular degeneration of the kidney. The oil appears to be mixed with the serum in the form of an emulsion. It is most usual in corpulent persons; and appears especially, or has been noticed mostly, when they are attacked by disease. It is connected also with an im- perfect state of digestion. 5. In jaundice and various diseases of the liver, even in inflamma- tion of the liver affecting the lower surface of the organ and the * Experimental Inquiries, Part tho First, containing an Inquiry into the Properties of the Blood, with Remarks on some of its Morbid Appearances. 3d Edition. By William Hewson, F. R. S. London, 1780. Pp. 1.91. <