TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 599 Tubercles are also occasionally found with their consequences, vomicae. . , ■ Another state frequently observed ts engorgement or rnhl- tration of the lungs with a dark-coloured fluid, which is ascribed by Dr Holland to the inhalation of the fine black dust floating in the atmosphere during the operation of glazing. On the mode of production of these lesions, or the order of their succession, observers are not agreed. Dr Arnold Knight an . 1 Holland consider the tracheo-bronchial membrane to be the original and principal seat of the disease, and the tracheo-bi onchial ii 1 itation to be the primary morbid action, and to give rise to all the other ef- fects ; the dilatation of the bronchi, emphysema, the formation of cur- rant-like bodies, tubercles, pulmonary induration, and pleuritic ad- hesion. Dr Fox Favell, on the other hand, thinks that the pulmonic tissue or parenchyma is the primary and essential seat of the dis- ease, does not regard the mucous membrane as the original seat of the disease, and maintains that the organic changes found in the structure of the lungs constitute the essence of the lesion ; in short, that all the changes seen in the lungs of the grinders depend on congestion and inflammation of their parenchymatous structure.* Dr Favell, in short, ascribes as much to the position, the labour, and the debauched habits of the grinders, as to the inhalation of the dust or powder. The question is not easily determined. But it may safely be asked, how the wet grinding is so little hurtful, and the dry grinding so rapidly, powerfully, and effectually detrimental to the lungs. It is also to lie observed, that it cannot be said to follow, because the pulmonic parenchyma is found much diseased, that the tracheo-bronchial membrane is not the primary seat of 'mischief. It is known that various affections of the tracheo-bron- chial membrane do extend to the lungs; and there is little reason to believe that the grinder’s asthma constitutes an exception to the rule, § 6. Bronchial inflammation takes place secondarily in hooping- cough, measles, scarlet fever, small-pox, and typhous fever. In measles I have seen the membrane i'ed, injected, villous, and secret- ing puriform fluid copiously—the usual symptoms of pulmonary consumption having preceded the fatal event. In scarlet fever not only the pulmonic but the facial mucous membrane is inflamed ; and * On Grinder’s Asthma. By Charles Fox Favell, M. D. &c. Transactions of the l’rovincial Medical and Surgical Association. New Series. Vol. ii. 1846, p. 148.