STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—LIVER. 777 In the Hamster ( Cricetus vulgaris), the pancreas consists of very small lobules, which are almost entirely separate from each other, and adhere only loosely by the different ducts, forming large lobules. The elementary particles are the same almost as in the salivary glands, hut half more slender; nor does the middle part of the canal appear white as in the salivary glands. Each lobule divided into small •, fasciculi, or clusters, or elementary parts, receives in the middle a blood-vessel, which is distributed in twigs among the smaller/hscfcwZf. The summary of the structure of the pancreas is the following. In Amphibia, Birds, and Mammalia, in the foetal state, there is observed a paniculated vegetation of acini, or elongated cylindrical utricuh or bladders; the cylindrical acini in the panic idee, proceed from a middle twig like the nerves of leaves; and all terminate in free, shut, and slightly swelling ends. In adult birds, the secreting canals begin in cellular roots or very crowded small vesicles. § III. THE LIVER. In the surface of the liver of the sturgeon, Muller observed with the microscope small piunatifid paniculae variously dispersed, so that the acini or roots of the biliferous canals were united in the pmnatifid manner. The sprouts were otherwise free, slightly swelled at the tip. & J In the toad the formation is the followin°'; The proliferous membrane, after surrounding the yelk by growths in all directions, forms a saccated appendix, pendulous from the keel of the embryon, containing the substance of tile yelk, riiat sac is divided into an external very thin pellucid layer’and an internal vascular layer, one of which belongs to the’ integu- ments and the other to the intestines. The inner sac is soon nro- onged towards the vertebral column, into au anterior and posterior whlch in,dicate rcspectively the anterior and posterior ends of the intestinal canal. When the anterior prolongation issues rom the common sac, on the right side, in the continuation of the r; conTcurly a wi,itisi1 swemng> <*>..^.,6 0 globules, with slender peduncles, as it were, attached Observed ^ally granules appear and these are the first vestige of the on r blind S“C 1 yi ,,S ,distinSuished by innumerable reti- ula blood-vessels, m which the blood is observed moving dis- After one or two days, the beginning and end of the intestinal