861 INFLAMMATION OF THE LIA'ER, appears to be uncommon ; and its spontaneous opening by ulcera- tion of the integuments almost unknown. Clark of Dominica re- cords several cases in which, by an external incision, he discharged considerable quantities of matter, (1, 2, 3, quarts, half a gallon, a pint, &c.) sometimes so as to effect a permanent cure. Marshall, however, states that no case occurred in the Ivandvan country among any of the classes of troops in which it was deemed advis- able to make an incision through the abdominal parietes into an hepatic abscess; and in those cases in which bulging of the false ribs appeared to indicate the performance of this measure, it was found on dissection that adhesion was not sufficiently intimate to i endei it successful. In three cases in which the abscesses were small, the operation was performed with good result. The termination of acute hepatic inflammation in hardening or chronic disease shall be noticed afterwards. Acute suppurative inflammation of the liver may be said to be endemial in tropical climates. It is so in the West Indies • in India, but particularly the Coromandel Coast, (John Clark)’ in the Mysore, especially at Bengalore, (Mouat); and in the whole of the Presidency of Madras ; in Ceylon, (Marshall) ; and on the coast of Africa, (Wmterbottom). It may occur, however, in tem- perate or cold climates. Morgagni mentions examples in Italy ortal in France, and Bang in Denmark. (See Selecta Diarii pn’ 61, 224, 285, 315). Two cases have fallen under my observation It attacks indiscriminately natives and Europeans, but esneeiallv be latter, in the East Indies. In Dominica, the: ^groesTe -e a frequently attaeked as the whites. Not unfrequeutiy it succeeds ague or remittent fever, or may be complicated with them Ex n,°iStUre> M ~ ^ t0*favour B. Chronic suppurative hepatic inflammation differs from the acute in its mode of attack, the degree of severity, anTiteTffe on the substance of the organ. It generally comes on slowly and insidiously, either originally in constitutions previously exhausted by long residence m hot climates, and repeated e . disease, or it follows remittent fever or a^nie T1 .• ° .a<?Ute guid, listless, averse to exertion either bodily or mental alfl times apprehensive. Yet he does not ,, J' i, • ?. some" distressing uneasiness which attends the acute disease ^Ti ^ chondriac region, on the contrary, may