82 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Every one knows that the aorta is connected at its origin with the upper and anterior part of the left ventricle. The manner of this connection has been well examined by Lancisi, by Ludwig, and particularly by Bichat. It may be demonstrated by dissection, but is much more distinctly shown by boiling the heart with the blood- vessels attached. In a heart so treated the thin internal membrane may he traced passing from the interior of the ventricle along the margin of its orifice to the inside of the arterial tube. Exactly at the point of union it is doubled into three semicircular folds, form- ing semilunar valves, and thence is continued along the whole course of the artery. This membrane is entirely distinct from the proper or fibrous coat. Of the latter, the cardiac extremity or be- ginning is notched into three semicircular sections, each of which corresponds to the base or attached margin of a semilunar valve. These sections are attached to the aortic orifice of the ventricle by delicate filamentous tissue, but are not connected with the fleshy fibres of the heart; and at the angle or point of attachment, the thin inner membrane is folded in so as to fill up a space or interval which is left between the margin of the orifice and the circumfe- rence of the proper arterial tissue, where it is notched or trisected. The aorta is soon divided into branches, which again are subdi- vided into small vessels. With the mathematical physiologists, it was a favourite problem to ascertain the number of branches into which any vessel might be subdivided. Keill made them from forty to fifty. Haller states, that, counting the minutest ramifica- tions, he has found scarcely twenty. The inquiry is vain and use- less, and cannot be subjected to accurate calculation. In no two subjects is the same artery found to be subdivided the same number of times, and in no two subjects are the very same branches found to arise from the same trunk. A branch issuing from a trunk generally forms with it a particu- lar angle. Most generally, perhaps, these angles are acute; but in particular situations they approach nearly to a right angle. Thus the innominata, left carotid, and left subclavian, issue from the arch of the aorta nearly at a right angle, at least to the tangent of the arch. The intercostals form a right angle with the thoracic aorta; the renal and lumbar arteries form a large acute angle, approaching to right with the abdominal; and the cceliac comes oft’ nearly in the same manner from the anterior part of the vessel. The internal and external carotids, again, the external and inter-