GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 38 tion of the adipose membrane, as distinct from the filamentous tis- sue. Thus, diffuse inflammation occurs mostly in those parts in which the adipose membrane is abundant, e. y. in the neck, on the chest between the two pectoral muscles, in the arm-pits, in the ex- tremities immediately beneath the skin, and on the buttock at the verge of the anus. In the following passage Hunter seems to have this in view. “ The cellular membrane, free from the adipose, ap- pears to be more susceptible of the adhesive inflammation than the adipose membrane, and much more readily passes into the suppu- rative. Thus we see that the cellular membrane connecting parts together as muscles, and the cellular membrane connecting the adipose to muscles, easily inflames, and runs readily into suppura- tion, and, as it were, separates the muscles from their lateral con- nections, and even separates the adipose from the muscles, while the skin and adipose membrane shall only be highly inflamed,” (p. 234.) Diffuse inflammation of the filamentous tissue has "been described by Kirkland, (p. 282, Vol. II.) Willan, Thomson, and Copland Hutchinson, under the name of plilegmonoid erysipelas, noticed by various authors as inflammation of the fascia, (Abernethy, Kirk- land, 268,) and was fully investigated by Dr Duncan Junior in 1823, under its proper denomination. Its general characters are diffuse swelling spreading over the limb or affected region, compressible, but not elastic, often doughy; deep-seated pain, with an oppressive sensation of weight; and ten- sion of the skin, sometimes with a dull red tinge, not unfrequently without change of colour. At a period, varying from the fifth to the tenth day, the swelling presents in sundry parts a peculiar, compressible, but not very elastic character, as if the subjacent tis- sues were floating in a fluid or semi-fluid matter. If the affected part or limb be examined after death, the whole cellular tissue, subcutaneous and intermuscular, is found enlarged, gray, or ash-coloured, and distended with blood-coloured fluid or serum, sero-purulent or purulent matter. It is detached exten- sively from the several tissues which it connects in the healthy state. Between the muscles are long sinuous caverns filled with dirty ash-coloured fluid ; sloughs or mortified shreds are seen here and there hanging from aponeurotic sheaths, tendons, or even blood-vessels; and, while in most cases shreds or filaments of the subcutaneous or subfascial cellular tissue are the only traces of its