BONE. 427 CHAPTER IV. Section I. Rone, o?sov. Os,— Ossa,—T'issu Osseux, die knochen. No animal substance has been more frequently or thoroughly examined than bone; and the greatest difficulty in describing its general anatomy consists in selecting and concentrating informa- tion.* Several attempts have at different times been made to ascertain the atomic constitution of bone, but without much success. Mal- Ipighi, though he corrected the extravagant fiction of Gagliardi re- garding the osseous plates and nails, fancied bones to be composed of filaments, which Lewenhoeck represented as minute hollow tubes; (tubuli.) By Clopton Havers, again, the ultimate particles of bone were imagined to be fibres aggregated into plates (lamina) placed on each other, and traversed by longitudinal and transverse hollows or pores, (po7-i.)f This view was adopted by Courtial,± Winslow,§ Palfyn,|| Monro,H and Reichel,** the last of whom was at some pains to demonstrate this arrangement of plates and minute tubes by microscopical observation. The justice of these notions was first questioned by Scarpa, who, in 1799, undertook to show, by examinations of bone deprived of * The principal authors on the structure of bone are Dominici Gagliardi, Anatome Ossium, novis inventis illustvata. Romaj, 1689. Malpighi, Dc Ossium structma ex Op. Post, who corrected the fictitious views of the former. Marcelli Malpighii Opera Omnia Tomis Duobus Comprehensa. Londini,. 1686. Folio. Opera Posthuma. Londini, 1697. Clopton Havers, Osteologies Nova, or Some New Observations of the Bones and the Parts belonging to them. London, 1691. De La Sone, Memoire sur Vorganisation cles os, Mem. de l’Academie, 1754. G. C. Reichel, de Ossium ortu atgue structura. Lips. 1760. Ext. in Sandifort Thesaur. Vol. ii. p. 171. Antonii Scarpa, dc Pcnitiori Ossium Structura Comment. Lips. 1799. Republished' in Dc Anatome etPathologia Ossium, Comnientarii, Auctore A. Scarpa. Ticini, 1827. Papers by Mr ITowship in the sixth and seventh volumes'of the Medico-ChirurgicaH Transactions. t Osteologia Nova. London, 1691, p. 34, 37, 41, 46. t Nouvelles Observations sur les Os. A. Leide, 1709. § Exposition Anatomique. || Anatomic Chirurgieale. H Anatomy of the Bones. •* Dc Ossium Ortu, &c. § v.