274 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The sources from which the brain derives its blood are well known. It is highly vascular throughout. These vessels, first divided in the productions of the pia mater, are afterwards subdi- vided to an incredible degree of minuteness, in the substance of the organ. They never anastomose. (Home.) They are accom- panied with very minute veins, provided, it is said, with valves. Of these the most delicate branches are found, according to Sir Everard Home, in the gray convoluted matter, contrary to the statements of Ruysch, Albinus, and others ; and conversely in the white matter they are much larger.* The substance of brain has been examined by several chemists; but the analysis most to be trusted, is perhaps that of Vauquelin, who found that 100 parts of cerebral substance consist of 80 of water, 7 of albumen, 4.43 of a white adipose matter, 0.70 of a red adipose matter, 1.12 of osmazome, 1.5 of phosphorus, and 5.15 of acids, salts, and sulphur. Upon the presence of the albuminous matter depends the solidification which the brain undergoes when immei'sed in alcohol, acids, or solutions of the metallic salts, which coagulate that substance. Upon the presence of the white adipose matter depends the formation of those brilliant white crystalline plates, resembling cholesterine, observed by M. Gmelin in the brains preserved in the anatomical cabinet of Heidelberg.f The opinion of this physician, that it pre-exists in the brain, in the form of the adipocerous or cholesterine matter (waxy brain-fat,) is improbable, and requires more decisive experiments than those on which he has founded it. The development and growth of this organ was, in 1816, in- vestigated with much care by Tiedemann, who has ascertained the following points. In the embryo of six weeks, the spinal chord is represented by a flat long substance, the upper end of which is slightly enlarged. In the second month, when the brain is little developed compared with the spinal chord, it may be said to con- sist, ls£, of a cerebellum, with considerable transverse extent ; 2d, of brain proper, exceedingly small; 3cl: of a third portion placed G. R. Treviranus Beitrage zur Aufklarung tier Erscheinungen unci Gesetze tier Or- ganischen Lebens Band I. Heft. II. 1836- 0, § 24. II. und Heft. IV. 1836. E. H. Weber in Schmidt’s Jahrbuchern der in-und-auslandischen Medicin. Bd. XX. § 5. und Ilenle ebcndaselbst. § 339. * philosophical Transactions, Lond. 1821, pp. 29 and 30. | j'eitscrift fur Physiologic, Von Tiedemann, Treviranus, und L. C. Treviranus, Band T. 1 Heft, 1824. 3