ADIPOSE TISSUE. 65 in particular has been found affected with, and destroyed by, the true disjunctive inflammation. One of tbe most characteristic ex- amples of tbis disease on record is given by Dr Thomas Turner, in tbe fourth volume of the Medical Transactions of the Royal College of Physicians. In this case tbe disease commenced with sickness, vomiting, and pain in the bowels, followed by pain in the back and loins; and at the end of about thirty-eight hours with great restlessness, anxiety, laborious, panting respiration, and loss of pulse at the wrist. Death took place at tbe end of forty-eight hours. The whole adipose tissue enclosing the kidneys was in a gangrenous state, exhibiting a large mass of black pulpy matter. The capsules of both kidneys were inflamed, that of tbe right kid- ney mortified, and slight traces of inflammation were observed in the internal structure of both kidneys. In the winter of 1816-17, I examined the body of a man in whom I found the whole of the adipose cushion surrounding the left kidney, converted into an ash- coloured fetid, semifluid pulp, similar to a mixture of train oil and jelly, mingled with shreddy filaments, and in which this suppura- tive sloughing process had opened a passage from tbe fat of the left kidney into the interior of the transverse arch of the colon. In this case, though the patient did not complain of much pain, and presented chiefly the general languor, oppression, and stupor ob- served in typhoid fever, the pulse was quick and small, tbe tongue brown and dry, tbe thirst intense, afterwards not felt, the counte- nance dingy and lurid, and tbe eyes heavy, the bowels difficult to be affected by medicine, tbe urine scanty and high-coloured, and at length suppressed ; and the patient, after muttering delirium and typhomunia on tbe second day of the attack, with subsultus tendinum, passed into a comatose state, which terminated on the fourth day in death. The endosteal or intra-osseous adipose tissue, in other words, the medullary membrane, is liable in like manner to both forms of in- flammation, but especially the suppurative and disjunctive; and the invariable effect of tbis is to kill the compact tissue of the bone, and produce atomical death or caries of the cancellated tissue. JSie- cfosis is the result of the former, and spina■ ventosa and caries of the latter. Ihe full consideration of this variety of the disease, however, belongs to another subject. I have now described the usual characters of this disease in its