739 SEROUS MEMBRANE—TUBERCLES. In the human body cenchroid tubercles occur in the pleuia and peritoneum in two forms. In one, very small bodies like the heads of needles or pins, and generally of a white colour, are disseminated over the whole pleu- ral or peritoneal surface. These are very closely set, and com- municate to the membrane a perceptible degree of roughness. After some time they cause, at least in the peritonaeum, adhesion of the folds of the ileum, so that the whole bowels are united in one general adherent mass. These tubercles are seated in the substance of the peritonaeum. They do not appear to increase much in size, but they tend simply to induce chronic inflammation of the mem- brane and union of its parts by effusion of lymph and adhesion. They likewise tend to cause the effusion of serous fluid from the surface of the peritoneum. In the second variety, small bodies, a little larger than those last mentioned, are most minutely and extensively disseminated over the pleura or peritoneum. These resemble gunpowder grains, are generally of a light blue colour, and are always extremely hard. They are less liable to cause adhesive inflammation than the small white tubercles. Yet occasionally the intestinal peritonaeum is ob- served adhering extensively, in consequence of their development in that membrane. They always derange the circulation and secretion of the mem- brane ; and much serous fluid is accumulated within the cavities in j consequence. They may take place in one serous membrane only ; but they often take place in the pleura and peritoneum at once, 1 causing in the former hydrothorax, and in the latter ascites. They affect in the abdomen, the mesentery and omentum; and the latter is doubled or folded up like an oblong tumour across the abdomen between the stomach and colon.* In the brain they are mostly seen in the pia mater towards the base; and they in that situation resemble neither the first nor the second variety of tubercles ; being larger than the former, and less hard than the latter. They may take place at any region of the pia mater. But they are more common at the base of the brain and around the cerebel- lum than in any other situation. Wherever they are found, they induce chronic hydrocephalic * Rel)ort of the Cases treated during the Course of Clinical Lectures delivered at the Royal Infirmary in 1832-1833. By David Craigie, M. D. Edin. Med. and Sura Journal, xli, 122. Edinburgh, J834.