NERVOUS TISSUE. 385 It was at one time supposed that the morbid growth called blood- like fungus (fungus hcematodes) was peculiar to the nervous tissue. This idea is now known to be incorrect; and it appears that there is no process of disorganization peculiar to nerve, and not occurring in other textures. Nervous texture is sometimes unnaturally soft; as in dropsy, fatal hemorrhages, and diseases of long wasting. (Autenrieth.) Is it ever unusually soft primarily, and without being the result of another disease? It undergoes mollescence (ramollissement) in consequence of mechanical injury ; but it is exceedingly doubtful if this takes place spontaneously. 4. Local forms of palsy, that is, loss of mobility in an order of muscles, or in a limb, is a common result of injury done to a nerve or nerves. The effect of such injury is in general to produce in- flammation or extravasation, and subsequent destruction of the proper nervous matter. It becomes soft, pulpy, and disorganized. In this state the nerve is no longer fit to perform its usual func- tions, and it loses the influence which it possessed over the muscles to which it is distributed. In the course of this process irregular motions, or what are termed spasms, not unfrequently occur. 5. Tetanus.—Punctured or lacerated wounds of nervous tissue may be followed by tonic spasms, (tetanus,) or by convulsive motions in general. It is uncertain in this case whether the irregular motions depend on injury of the nerve, or its neurilematic sheath. The following facts I have ascertained in several cases in which tetanus followed fracture of the fingers with contused wounds of the soft parts. In two cases I may mention, in which the injuries were very si- milar, viz. fracture of the middle phalanges of the finger, the symp- toms of tetanus came on about three weeks after the infliction of the injury, and proceeded in the course of a few days to the fatal termination. In the first case, the body of a cart, which had been emptied, and for this purpose had been raised, fell on the hand of the person, and caused fracture of the bones of the finger with con- tusion. In the second case, the mast of a boat which had been raised, and was standing not securely, fell on the hand of the per- son, and in like manner produced fracture of the phalanges of the thumb. In both cases the nerve-coat connected with the injured part was reddened, vascular, and injected, and manifestly thickened, while the nervous matter of the nerve was reddened, swelled, and softened. n b