538 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. neous disorder prevalent in Crim Tartary. In whatever points these disorders differ, all of them agree in being preceded by dis- tinct febrile commotion, in consisting of inflammation affecting the corion in definite points, and in causing at the same time more or less inflammation, punctuate or diffuse, of the mucous and fibro- mucous membranes of the nasal cavities, the throat, the Eustachian tube, and tympanal cavity. In these diseases the affection of the corion is neither pustular nor tubercular, but consists in inflammation of its substance occur- ring in many minute points, and causing first an appearance like papulae, or sometimes only an extensive diffuse redness and rough- ness of the skin ; then desquamation of the cuticle; then pustulo- tubercular or minute hard eminences seldom suppurating com- pletely, but sometimes causing, partly by sloughing, partly by ul- ceration of the corion, deep foul sores, destroying the corial texture and the bulbs of the hair. This is particularly the case in the Ra- desyge, the form of disorder prevalent in Iceland, the Scandinavian peninsula, the Feroe Islands, and the peninsula of Jutland. In those prevalent in Italy, Asturia, and Crim Tartary, ulceration of the corion appears to be less frequent. The limits of this treatise do not permit me to enter at large into the history of these diseases, which are not to be viewed as merely cutaneous affections; and I shall simply refer to the best sources for further information.* * For Radesyge, Dissert. Inaug, de morbo cutaneo luem veneream consecutivani ■imulante, auctore C. F. Ahlander. Upsalise, 1806. Diss. Inaug. sistens obs. in exanthema arct. vulgo Radesyge, auctore Isaaco Vought. Gryphese, 1811. Geographische Nosologie von Fried. Schnurrer, M. D. p. 440. Morbus quem Radesyge vocant, &c. Commentatio Auctore Fred. Holst, M. D. Christianise, 1817. Ueber die Aussatzartige Krankheit Holsteins, &c. Von Ludwig Aug. Struve, M. D. 1820. Die Radesyge Oder das Scandinavische Syphiloid. Aus Scandinavischen Quellen dargestellt. Von Dr Ludwig Hiinefeld, Professor zu Greifswalde. Leipzig, 1828. 8 vo. Erkenntniss und Cur des Sogenannten Dithsmarsischen Krankheit. Von Dr E. A. L. Hiibener, Pract. Aertze en Heide. Altona, 1835. For Pellagra, S. Const. Titii orat. de Pellagra Pathologia. Viteberg. 1792. De Pellagra Obs. quas collegit Caietano. Strambio, 1784-89, Mediol. Franc. Frapolli. Mediol. Animadvers. in Morbum vulgo Pellagra, Med. 1771. N. X. Jansen de Pellagra, Lug. 1787. Frank Delect. Tom. IX. p. 325. Holland in Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. VII. For Mai de Rosa, Thierry Observations de Physique et Medecine, Tom. II. Chap. vi.