GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 330 elusion of these authors that the change affects, so far as is hitherto known, the brain alone, and not the cerebellum ; but he modifies their inference, that it affects the whole organ. Though this does take place, yet hypertrophy may be partial, affecting only one he- misphere, one lobe, one corpus striatum, or one optic thalamus. He finds, lastly, that the brain may be, in certain circumstances, un- usually large, yet not amounting to hypertrophy, in persons dying of various diseases; for instance, extensive pneumonia and other diseases of the lungs and heart; and then the brain is generally very much loaded with blood,* From this account it appears that cerebral hypertrophy differs little, if at all, from what is above described as induration of the brain. 13. Atrophy of the Brain. ( Cerebrum Ebriosorum ; Cerebrum Biba- cium.) The Spirit-drinker'’s Brain. The term atrophy is employed in two senses, something different. In one sense, it is employed to in- dicate diminution in the size of the brain, and especially of its convo- luted surface. The convolutions are shrunk, small, narrow, and occa- sionally soft; the sulci are large and open; and the brain recedes from the interior of the skull; while the subarachnoid tissue is very much loaded with serous fluid, which has the appearance of a jelly invest- ing the whole brain. This is observed, not only along the superior and lateral regions of the hemispheres, but all over and at the base of the brain. This shrinking of the brain and the supplying of the place by fluid, may amount to the thickness of about one crown- piece, or even two crown-pieces, all over; and in some extreme cases the shrinking and the filling with serous fluid in the sub- arachnoid tissue amounts to the extent of half an inch in thickness. The brain is, at the same time, very soft and watery; large quantities of fluid escaping both from the convolutions, when the membranes are cut, and from the white substance of the hemi- spheres. The ventricles also are enlarged and capacious, and al- most constantly contain serous fluid in considerable quantity. Much also is found in the lower part of the brain, and escapes from the cavity of the spinal chord. This is general atrophy of the brain, or atrophy of the convolu- tions ; and it is supposed to depend on wasting and actual loss of the cerebral substance, both white and gray, while the place of the lost matter is supplied by serous fluid. * On Hypertrophy and Atrophy of the Brain. By John Sims, M. D. Medico-Chi- rurgical Transactions, XIX, 315. London, 1835,