BONE. 475 bulated masses of soft, spongy, vascular substance like fat, brain, or clotted blood, which emits malignant fungi, and discharges blood- coloured serum. After some time it not only distends, separates, and destroys the bone, but it undergoes an alternate process of sloughing and hemorrhage. Though, in compliance with the views of Sir A. Cooper, I placed it under this head, it is scarcely entitled to the character of enostosis or exostosis, but is manifestly of the nature of the encephaloid tumour. The cartilaginous, or genuine enostosis, consists of masses of firm chondrodesmoid structure, whitish-red or gray, producing by its enlargement progressive se- paration and destruction of the bone, but not possessing the fun- gating or malignant tendency.* M. A. Severinus, Mery, and Mr J. Bell have described a va- riety of monstrous enlargement of the bones of the hand, which I think is to be viewed as belonging to the head of enostosis. Though they are termed tumours of the phalanges, it is impossible to doubt, from perusing the authentic description of Mery especially, that the disease consisted of inordinate enlargement of the ends or articular heads of the phalanges.! This enlargement was confined to the ends of the metacarpal and middle row. The shell of the bones was extenuated, and in some parts broken. The interior structure consisted of irregular bony masses, fibrous and cellular, or caver- nous, containing reddish semifluid jelly. The contiguous articula- tions were ankylosed. These changes depend doubtless on mor- bid action of the medullary web. Any change in the structure of the bone and periosteum in such circumstances is secondary. A similar case is given by Scarpa, (Tab. 6.) d. Pcedarthrokahe. Osteo-cirthritis. Joint-ill of Children.—This name was applied by Pandolphinus, Marcus Aurelius Severinus, Mercklin, and various other authors of the 17th century, to designate a disease which they conceived to be the same with spina ventosa. Prom the facts already adduced on this head, it is clear that they committed a great mistake, and that they confounded two diseases which are essentially different. It is evident that the disease which they most frequently saw, was that in which the articular ends of the bones, more especially the small bones of the extremities, be- come affected with caries, in consequence of previous disease of the synovial membrane, or chronic inflammation of the medullary mem- * Surgical Essays by Sir A. Cooper. Part i. Pp. 1G5-173. t Memoires de l’Acad. des Sciences, 1720, p. 503. Sec also J. Bell’s Principles burgery, Vol. lii. pp. 73 and 00.