741 SEROUS MEMBRANE—MORBID GROWTHS. in museums- In the pleura it is most common in the costal divi- sion, large portions of which are sometimes found converted in- to broad flat patches of bone. The instances of ossification, of the diaphragm are of the same nature. In the pericardium it is pro- bably most frequent in the cardiac division, and constitutes those cases vaguely denominated ossified hearts. In the peritonaeum it is less frequent; but is remarked in particular portions of this mem- brane. Thus it is common in the muscular, diaphragmatic, splenic, and uterine peritonaeum, less frequent in the hepatic and colic, and scarcely seen in the ileal. These patches, though hard, firm, and apparently solid like bone, never present the organization peculiai to that substance. Their presence is generally connected with traces of inflammation or at least injection of the membrane ; and Rayer, in an elaborate essay, attempted to prove that osseous deposition is a result of that process* Indeed, many circumstances render it highly probable that chronic inflammation of serous tis- sue causes effusion of lymph, which is eventually converted into osseous matter. One of the most satisfactory proofs of this principle is, that osseous induration of the peritonaeum is very common in hernial protrusions of the intestine, in which the membrane is sub- jected to slow inflammation ; and that the vaginal coat of the tes- ticle is often cartilaginous, or even bony in cases of old hydrocele. VIII. Morbid Growths and Parasitical Animals.—§ 1. Hygroma.—The serous cyst is not uncommon in the diaphanous membranes. It appears, however, from various observations, to be most frequent in the attached surface, or in the subserous tissue. § 2. Hydatids, Acephalo-cysts.—These globular sacs are believed to be almost proper to the serous membranes. It is certain that in these they are more frequently observed than elsewhere. Thus they are found attached to the pleura, to the pericardium, to the peritonaeum, and to the vaginal coat; and in some rare cases they have been seen in the choroid plexus. Thus Fischer found the tcenia hydatigena of Pallas, or the cysticercus pyriformis of Zeder, attached to this membrane by a peduncle, and vesicular bodies, sup- posed to be of the same genus', attached to the arachnoid surface of the dura mater. The writings of Bonetus, Morgagni, and other collectors, contain frequent examples of pulmonary hydatids, seve- ral of which were originally hydatids of the pleura, and several of * Archives Generales, Toni, vii,