GASTRIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE—CHRONIC ULCER. 611 the suspicion of chronic inflammation in the gastric mucous mem- brane, and in whom these symptoms had subsided under appropri- ate treatment, after death from disorder of the brain, a cicatiized ulcer was found in the small arch of the stomach the size of a six- pence, about four lines from the cardia* In the cases by Ubersaal, Goeppert, and four of the seven seen by myself, the ulceration was situate in the small curvature. In two, indeed, of the first three, cases described by me, the ulceration of the villous membrane was bisected by the line of the small arch. In other three cases examined by me, the ulcers were situate in the anterior region of the stomach, about midway between the small and great arch. In one case, that of a young female of 23, there were in this situation two ulcers, one rather larger than a sixpenny piece, one less than a fourpenny piece. The largest had given way; and the rupture was followed by escape of the con- tents of the stomach, and fatal peritonitis in the course of a few hours. The patient was in her usual health at seven in the even- ing, and she was found lifeless, yet not cold, in bed next morning. In another case, which took place also in a young woman of about 22, the ulcer was situate in the anterior part of the stomach, but nearer to the pylorus. In the sixth case, which took place in a boy of 11 years, who had been labouring under granular disease of the kidney, and dropsical symptoms, extensive peritoneal inflammation, with copious effusion of lymph, had taken place over the intestines. But it was not certain whether this had been caused by perforation or not. There was no distinct evidence of escape of the contents of the stomach, which contained a good deal of blood coagulated and se- mifluid, which must have escaped from some vessel or vessels open- ed in the margins of the ulcer. Secondly, Whatever part of the organ they occupy, the different tissues are always destroyed in unequal degrees; — the villous membrane being most extensively destroyed, the filamentous and muscular less so, and the peritoneal least. Indeed, it is by no means certain that the peritoneal is destroyed by ulceration, as it seems rather to give way after the other tissues have been removed from it and cease to support it, than to undergo loss of substance itself. Thirdly, Though the ulcers now mentioned resemble ulcers in other parts of the body, they have nevertheless a very peculiar * Billard de la Membrane Muqueuse. Paris, 182.5. P.568.