416 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. and in the wrist and ankle, where they are termed lateral liga- ments, (/. later alia, accessoria.) Of the latter instances, are the round ligaments, (ligamenta teretia,) of the shoulder and hip-joints, and the crucial ligaments of the knee-joint. These receive an in- vestment of synovial membrane. Of the white fibrous tissues one of the most important is that de- nominated fascia. Consisting in intimate structure of long fibrous threads placed in parallel juxtaposition, sometimes obliquely inter- woven, and closely connected by filamentous tissue, it forms a whit- ish membranous web, variable in breadth, of some thickness and great strength. Fascia is perhaps, not excepting the skin, the most extensively distributed texture of membranous form in the animal body. It not only covers, if not the whole, at least by far the greatest part of the muscles of the trunk and each limb, but it sends round each muscle productions by which it is invested and sup- ported, and even penetrates by minute slips into the substance of individual muscles. Of several of the large muscles it connects the component parts, as is seen in the recti abdominis ; to many it affords points of origin or insertion ; and to all it furnishes more or less investment and support. Most of the tendons, especially the flexor and extensor tendons, are enclosed by it; and their synovial sheaths derive from it their exterior covering. At the extremities of the bones it is connected with the ligaments and periosteum, with which it is closely interwoven ; and it forms a general investment to the articular apparatus. Though fascia may thus be viewed as one membranous web con- sisting of many parts all directly connected with each other, it is the practice of anatomists to distinguish its divisions, according to the region which they occupy. Thus in the fore part of the neck and chest is found a fascia, the relations and uses of which have been well described by Mr Allan Burns.* In the cervical region we find a firm fascia descending from the occipital bone along the ver- tebrae, covering and connecting the muscles of each side till it reaches the loins, where, in the form of a thick strong membrane, it forms the lumbar fascia, (fascia lumborum.) It may further be traced over and between the cjlutaei muscles ; connected afterwards with the broad femoral fascia, (fascia lata ;) and thence over the knee and leg to the foot. Much in the same manner a membranous web, thinner and more delicate, but of the same structure, may be * Surgical Anatomy, pp. 33, 36'.