GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 206 the lower extremity, after passing through the glands of the groin, proceed with the common iliac vein into the abdomen, where they unite with other lymphatics. The lymphatics of the trunk consist in like manner of two layers, a subcutaneous and deeper seated one, distributed in the chest be- tween the muscles and pleura, and in the abdomen between tbe muscles and peritoneum. In the chest and belly, each organ pos- sesses a superficial layer of lymphatics distributed over its surface, and pertaining to its membranous envelope; the other ramifying through its substance, and pertaining to the peculiar tissue of the organ. This twofold arrangement is most easily seen in the lungs, the heart, the liver, spleen, and kidneys. In a similar manner are arranged the lymphatics in the exter- nal parts of the scull, on the face, where they are very numerous, in the spaces between the muscles, and on the neck, in which they pass through numerous glands. No lymphatics, however, have been found in the brain, the spinal chord, their membranous en- velopes, the eye, or tbe ear. All the lymphatics hitherto known terminate in two principal trunks. One of these, termed from its site thoracic duct, (Ductus thoracicus ; die Milch-brustrohre ; le canal thoracique) is situate on the left side of the dorsal vertebrae. It receives the lymphatics of the lower extremities, of the belly, and tbe parts contained in it; those of great part of the chest, and those of the left side of the head, neck, and trunk, and left upper extremity. The other lym- phatic trunk, which is situate on the right side of the upper dorsal vertebrae, is formed by the union of the lymphatics of the right side of the head, neck, right upper extremity, and some of those of the chest. Both of these trunks, it is well known, open into the sub- clavio-jugular vein of each side. That lymphatics terminate in branches of the venous system has been asserted on the authority of various observers. Steno, for instance, states that he traced the lymphatics from the right side of the head, the chest, and pectoral extremity in animals into the right axillary vein ; and he gives delineations of anastomotic connections of several lymphatics with the axillary and jugular veins. Similar facts have been reported by Nuck, Richard Hale, Bartholin, and Hartmann, lluysch traced the lymphatics of the lung into the subclavian and axillary veins; Drelincourt those ol the thymus gland in animals into the subclavians; and Hebenstreit saw those of the loins pass into the vena azygos.