WHITE FIBROUS SYSTEM. 417 traced from the chest along the upper extremity, till at the wrist it is identified with the annular ligament, and in the hand with the palmar fascia. In all these situations the general fascial envelope sends slips or productions (fascia intermusculares) between the muscles, and into their substance.* Section II. The morbid relations of this system are important. But in con- sequence of their being often combined with other tissues, it is diffi- cult to distinguish them properly. 1. Inflammation in various forms is not uncommon, and may take place either spontaneously, or as the effect of accident. a. Desmodia.—Inflammation of ligament may be spontaneous or the result of injury. In the former case it is generally chronic, and is attended with much thickening of the desmoid tissue. The mor- bid action spreads to the synovial membrane on the one side, caus- ing it to thicken and effuse morbid fluid, and on the other, to the peridesmoid cellular tissue, which is then infiltrated with jelly-like fluid, and becomes separated and somewhat indurated and granular. These changes take place in those forms of articular disease com- monly known under the vague name of white sioelling ; (tumor al- bus ; fungus articuli; der Gliedschwamm.) After some time this morbid state of the extra-articular cellular tissue may proceed to sup- puration, but without necessarily opening the cavity of the articulation. The capsular ligament, however, and even the funicular ones, may be so much changed in structure as to become unfit for their func- tions. Though the process now described is that which takes place in inflammation of ligament when primary, it is necessary to mention, nevertheless, that inflammation in these tissues is much more fre- quently the consequence of previous disease in the synovial mem- brane or the articular cartilages. This is particularly the case in the knee-joint and elbow. (3. Ulceration of ligament is the result either of traumatic inflam- mation proceeding to suppuration, or of suppuration within the ar- ticular cavity. Even in the latter case the desmoid tissue itself is rarely destroyed; and the opening takes place between its fibres, * Surgical Anatomy, by Abralmm Colies. Dublin, 1811. D d