820 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. mous, or whether it be, that while it is taken, the individuals are incautious, and expose themselves to cold, or commit errors in diet, certain it is, that in the great majority of. cases, the first en- largement of the parotid and other salivary glands takes place either during a course of mercury, or soon after it is completed. All these glands are more or less swelled, sometimes very much; and the parotid being placed in a situation so conspicuous, forms a large bulging tumour on one or both sides of the jaw. These tu- mours are manifestly of the strumous character, and occur princi- pally in strumous subjects. Often they cause suppuration of the surrounding cellular tissue and skin, forming sinuous ulcers, and leaving ugly scars. ยง 3. The sublingual glands are liable to a peculiar enlargement, generally of a chronic character, immediately beneath the tongue, where its pressure on the sublingual veins causes great dis- tension of these vessels. To this appearance a peculiar name, that of Ranula, has been applied, from some fancied resemblance to a small frog. The matter causing this tumour varies. Some- times it is a simple enlargement of the gland. More frequently, however, it arises from one or more concretions in the excretory duct of one or other of these glands. ยง 4. Chronic induration is liable to affect either or all of the sa- livary glands. The change has, however, been most commonly ob- served in the parotid gland. The gland is enlarged, hard, indo- lent, resistent; and constrains the motions of the jaw. Sometimes the tumour is irregular on the surface; in other instances it is smooth. As to pain, evidence varies a good deal; for in some in- stances there is much deep-seated lancinating or darting pain; in others no pain is felt, except that resulting from pressure and dis- tension of the parts. Almost all these tumours in the site of the parotid, if a little hard, have been comprehended under the general and comprehen- sive name of scirrhus; and at present it cannot be said that there is any good diagnosis between simple chronic induration and scir- rhus, before at least the tumour has been removed and subjected to proper microscopic examination. Boyer himself admits the diffi- culty of the diagnosis, and allows that many cases of enlargement in this region, which were strumous, were ascribed to scirrhus. I think it scarcely possible to mistake for scirrhus, as he seems to be- lieve was done, mere strumous swellings, whether of the parotid