PAROTID GLAND—TUMOURS INVOLVING. 825 It does not impugn much the judgment of this excellent surgeon, if we doubt whether this tumour were a true scirrhus. If it were not malignant, it might have been a mere strumous enlargement. If it were malignant, it was much more likely to be encephaloid disease than scirrhoma. But even this point it is very difficult to determine. In most cases of tumours affecting the neck, the enlargement consists either in strumous disorder of the lymphatic glands, affecting probably also the salivary glands; or in encephaloma, affecting these glands and the cellular tissue. A woman of about 40, with a tumour on the right side of the neck, extending from the parotid region downwards to the collar bone and larynx, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary. The tumour was lobulated, and consisted of seven or eight spheroidal masses. It might have affected the parotid gland, the site of which it covered; and, as it dipped under the angle of the jaw, it might also have involved the submaxillary. It was, nevertheless, ob- vious from its lobulated encysted appearance, and the short time which had elapsed since its commencement, that it was probably encephaloid. It was removed with great dexterity and success by an able surgeon; though it was found requisite to enclose in a li- gature a portion which descended deep near the articulation of the lower jaw. The tumour consisted of about 12 or 13 spherical masses, each enclosed in a separate cyst. The matter contained in these cysts was of a whitish-gray colour, of the consistence between fat and gra- nular cheese, and in all respects resembling the encephaloid growth. It was impossible to detect the substance of the parotid gland, which seemed to be involved in this growth, and was otherwise rendered indistinct by the last incisions. The wound healed up well. But about three months after, the disease returned and destroyed the patient. This must be regarded as either a case of encephaloma, affectum first the lymphatic glands and cellular tissue of the neck, and after- wards, perhaps, the parotid gland, or as an instance of the tumour called cystic sarcoma. The saliva7/lands are liable to the formation of encysted tu- mours. Sand,fort mentions one being found in the parotid gland. 1 he observations hitherto made are applicable to the aubmaxil- y and subluigual glands, as well as to the parotid. Both the