NERVOUS TISSUE. 375 not regulated by physical laws, where the angle of reflection is equal to the angle of incidence, but obeys peculiar laws impressed by nature, as it were, on the sensorium, and which laws we can understand from their effects alone. This reflex action furthei takes place either without or with the consciousness of the soul. The motion of the heart, stomach, and intestines, is independent of the cognizance of the soul; and in many other instances of senso- rial impressions being transmitted to motific nerves, though the soul is conscious, it can neither prevent them nor promote them.* The commentary of Prochaska is the first precise view of the functions of the nervous system in modern times; and the first in which the automatic and instinctive phenomena enumerated by Whytt are referred to a reflex operation. In 1811, Sir Charles Bell, in a tract containing ithe Idea of a New Anatomy of the Brain, stated that he had proved experimentally that “ the posterior fasciculus of spinal nerves, which are gangliophorous, might be detached from its origin without convulsing the muscles of the back ; whereas, on touching the anterior fasciculus with the point of the knife, these muscles were immediately convulsed.” From this it seemed a probable inference that gangliophorous nerves had no concern in motion, and that nerves void of ganglion mini- stered in some way to that function. In 1818, Charles Francis Bellingeri published at Turin,f a Dis- sertation treating, among other subjects, of the anatomy and phy- siology of the fifth and seventh pairs of nerves. In this he showed that the great portion of the fifth pair or trifacial nerve, which forms the large semilunar plexus called Gasserian ganglion, is a nerve, not of motion but of sensation; that its three branches are distri- buted to certain parts of the eye, the nasal cavities, the palate and tongue ; ministering in these parts not to motion, but to sensation, and probably to circulation, nutrition, and secretion ; and that the small branch of that nerve ([nervus masticatorius), is distributed to muscles, (temporalis, rnasseter, pterygoideus, buccinatoriusf) and is a * Georgii Prochaska, M. D., Professoris Anatomiai, PhysiologiBe et Morborum Ocu- lorum in Universitate Vindobonensi, Operum Minorum. Pars II. Vienna:, 1800. 8vo. Commentatio de Functionibus Systematis Nervosi.' t Caroli Francisci Bellingeri E. S. Agatha Derthonensi. Phil, et Med. Doct. Am- plessim Med. Collegii Candidati Dissertatio Inauguralis quam publicu: defendebat. In Athenaeo Regio Anno MDCCCXVIII. Die IX. Maii ; bora IX.na. matutina. Augusta: Turinorum. 8vo. 1818. Ex Anatome j De Nervis Faciei; Ex Physiologia ; Quinti et Septimi Paris Functiones, &e.