666 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. teries and veins, the dispute whether the blood issues from the one or other order is frivolous. The blood may acquire its dark colour from two causes; lsf, admixture with the gastric juice in the sto- mach and duodenum ; and 2d, from the action of the carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, and other substances of acid properties con- tained in the intestinal canal. §2. Haemoptysis; Pneumonorr hagia ; Pulmonary Hemorrhage; Pulmonary Apoplexy.—For the first accurate description of the anatomical characters of pulmonary hemorrhage, we are indebted to the researches of the elaborate Stark, who ascertained the fol- lowing facts. The air vesicles in some parts of the lungs are filled with blood or bloody serum ; the parts do not collapse on opening the chest, but are firm, dark or light red in colour, and can neither be compressed nor distended by the usual inflation. When cut into, thick blood or bloody matter issues from the cut surfaces; and portions of the diseased parts, after being macerated in water, still sink as before maceration. He further showed, by blowing air into the blood-vessels and air-tubes of the sound and diseased portions respectively, that in the latter air passes from the branches of the pulmonary artery and veins into the bronchial tubes; in other words, that the capillary vessels of the lungs communicate freely with the bronchial tubes and air-cells.* The general accuracy of this description has since been verified by the researches of Laennec, who has indeed rendered the patho- logical anatomy of this disease more precise than formerly. From these, it results that a portion of the pulmonic tissue becomes uni- formly hard, of a dark red colour, and impermeable to air. The indurated spot is always partial, from one to four cubic inches in extent, circumscribed with sound or pale-coloured lung, and looks not unlike a clot of venous blood ; circumstances by which it is to be distinguished from pneumonic induration, which terminates gra- dually in sound lung.f These changes, which consist in extreme injection of the pulmonic capillaries, and in effusion of blood into the submucous filamentous tissue, and into the pulmonic vesicles, are confined, however, chiefly to the severe forms of pulmonary he- morrhage. They are the effects of previous injection of the capil- laries, which is to be considered as the uniform cause of hemor- rhage. * The Works of the late William Stark, M. D. &e. London, 1788, p. 34. f Traite de l’Auscultation Mediate, &c.