STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—MALPIGHIAN BODIES. 789 begin to wind in serpentine directions, forming arches with each other, and again turn backwards and are insensibly lost, becoming still more minute, yet without entering the Malpighian bodies. The mention of these objects renders it necessary to explain what they are. Though Eustachi appeal's to have maintained the existence of a sort of minute glandular grains in the kidney, Malpighi was the first who spoke of them distinctly and confidently. He states that in all the kidneys examined by him, in quadrupeds, the tortoise, and in man, he observed a cluster of minute glandules by the fol- lowing means. A black fluid, mixed with spirit of wine, was in- jected into the renal artery, so as to cause the whole kidney to be swelled and of a black colour externally. Then on stripping oft’ the external membrane, there appeared attached here and there to the dividing arteries small glandules stained of a black colour ; and on making a longitudinal section of the kidney, it was possible to observe between the bundles of the urinary vessels, (7. e. the ducts,) and in the spaces thereby formed, the same glands, almost without number, attached to the blood-vessels, distended with the black fluid, like apples suspended to the branches of a tree.* He after- wards adds that these bodies are placed in the utmost region of the kidney in almost countless numbers; that he thinks it likely that they correspond to the urinary vessels of which the mass of the kidneys consists; that as to shape, by reason of their minuteness and remarkable translucency, though they cannot be said to be distinctly circumscribed, yet they appear round like the ova of fishes; they are blackened when a dark-coloured fluid is injected into the arteries; and they are placed among the extreme branches of the arteries, which wind round them like tendrils, so that they appear surrounded by the former, with this exception, however, that the portion attached to the arterial branch is black, while the rest re- tains its own col our. f In these injections, Malpighi explicitly states, that he never saw the liquor thrown into the artery, though it blackened the nearest poition, get into the urinary ducts, or the round masses which he nsidered as the glandules of the kidney. This agrees with what is long afterwards maintained by Muller. The round or globular bodies thus described by Malpighi were + De Renibus, Cap.'VlI. °pm 0m,lia’ P!,S' fi0' Folio. Londini, 1686.