341 BRAIN. parts as thick as half an inch, in others not more than the thickness of two crown pieces or even one. Its outline was irregular. It had produced softening of the brain on the part where it pressed, and the base of the cranium on which it rested was absorbed, rough, and carious. The dura mater corresponding was thin, and detached from the inner table. I do not think that this substance, which was void of organization, resembled any other sort of tumour which I have seen either in the brain or elsewhere. It was too soft and too la- cerablc to be compared to the colloid tumour. It was contained within a thin arachnoid membrane, different, as it appeared to me, from the arachnoid membrane of the brain. The individual in whose brain this production took place had been long in state of infirm health ; two years at least. The first symptoms were epileptic seizures; then loss of memory of that kind, that with every wish and effort to recall either a name or ob- ject, or an event, he was quite unable to do so. Latterly the fits became more frequent; the memory more thoroughly impaired; and for some time before death he became blind and paralytic. Death was preceded by great debility and slight stupor. But the epileptic attacks had ceased to recur. This person’s intellect was originally good ; his memory was powerful; and his disposition was mild, gentle, and amiable. On these mental qualities, excepting the memory, his disease seemed to make no impression. I was as- sured, that a day or two before his death his intellect was clear ; and it was merely the remembrance of past transactions in which he was confused. He could by no means be said to be insane or even fatuous. e. Adipose tumour, lardaceous degeneration. (Kcroma.) Peter Borelli is the first who notices the existence of much fat-like matter in the brain of an epileptic subject. The adipose tumour describ- ed by the Wenzels seems to be the same with that which was pre- viously mentioned by Merat, and which has since been noticed un- der the name of lardaceous degeneration by M. Ilebreart formerly of the Bicetre. The first author describes, under the name of tu- bercle behind the upper part of the medulla oblongata, a fatty, red- dish, or rose-coloured body, the size of a nut, consisting internally of homogeneous substance traversed by minute red lines, probably blood-vessels. It was contained in a fine thin envelope. A similar one, though somewhat less, was found in the middle of the left ce- rebellic hemisphere. By the Austrian anatomists it is represented as externally smooth, and of a yellow colour, and internally, when