362 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. brane of the brain, {(pia meninx, pia mater,) and was derived from it.* Gordon considers the neurilema of the cerebral nerves as con- sisting of soft membrane, (pia mater) at their origin, but in all other situations as a species of cellular membrane. By Mayer the neurilema is accounted a fibrous tissue, for the following reasons, lsf, It consists almost entirely of tendinous fibres, and is cellular only where it is very thin. %d, The trans- verse folds presented by most of the nerves, and which give them a dentilated form, are derived from the neurilema, are of fibrous character, and are similar to those observed in tendinous sheaths. 3d, Several nervous productions are actually converted into tendi- nous or fibrous filaments; for example, the brain of the snail tribe, (li- matrons,) and the spinal chord both in these and other animals at the cauda equina. 4th, The neurilema is either a continuation of the pro- per cerebral membrane, (pia mater,) or very similar to it; and this membrane is fibrous and aponeurotic at the spinal chord, and even at its upper end, and, according to Mayer, forms the denticulated ligament, which is a fibrous tissue.f These views, which are the result, not of observation, but of hy- pothesis, it is impossible to adopt. Its connection with the pia mater was disproved by Red; and though its analogy with the denticu- lated ligament were established, it would prove nothing regarding the neurilema. Upon the whole, the idea communicated by Reil is the most probable. According to the observations of this ana- tomist, who examined the neurilema after fine and successful injec- tion, it is liberally supplied with blood-vessels. These derived from the neighbouring arteries penetrate the filamentous sheath of the nerve; and, immediately on reaching the neurilema, divaricating at right angles, generally run along the nervous threads, (Junes,) parallel to them, forming numerous anastomotic communications, and divide into innumerable minute vessels, which penetrate between them into the minute neurilematic canals. So manifold is the ra- mification, and so perfect the distribution, that in these canals not a particle of nervous substance is found which is not supplied with a vessel.:}: The arrangement of the veins is analogous. It appears, therefore, that the neurilema is a tissue of membra- * Anatomic Generate, p. 137, &c. -)- Discours sur 1’IIistologie, par le Doctcur Mayer. Bonn, 1819, Journal de Me- decine, Vol. XIII. p. 99. 1822. + Toannis Christiani Reil, Exercitationum Anatom, de Structura Nervorum, cap. •>,