NERVOUS TISSUE. 379 and voluntary muscles large and distinct. At the eighth month they are still more conspicuous. The anterior crural nerves are in the form of flat white cords one and a-half line broad, and their branches like good sized threads. The sciatic is still more distinct. In the form of a thick cylindrical cord, fully a line in diameter, and not unlike a piece of whip-cord, it is tough, stringy, and resists tension, and its constituent threads are well marked. I immersed a portion of this nerve three and a-half inches long in aqua po- tassce, when it first became much firmer and denser than before, assumed in two days the satin fibrous appearance first described by Fontana, and at length by solution of the nervous matter was se- parated into chords and neurilematic canals. In this state, pre- served in spirit of turpentine, it conveys a tolerably correct idea of the arrangement of the neurilematic canals. The nerves of the involuntary muscles are equally distinct in proportion. Those of the lung, heart, and splanchnic system are distinct and manifest at the eighth month. The neurilem is much more vascular in the foetus than in the adult. In the same foetus of about eight months I found the neu- rilem of the sciatic nerve, from the ischiatic notch to its divarica- tion in the ham, covered with a thick net-work of minute vessels, all injected with dark blood. Section II. 1. Inflammation, spontaneous and from injury,—Nerve-acli, Neu- ritis. Neuralgia. (Neurilemmia.) Various observers, as Boerhaave, have doubted the spontaneous occurrence of inflammation of a nerve (neuritis;') and certainly the disease is not very common. Others, on the contrary, have gone to the opposite extreme, and thought that it was a frequent affection. Peter Frank, for instance, and Joseph Frank, maintain that there is no doubt that neuritis arises spontaneously, and that it is a lesion not uncommon; and in this they are supported by the testimony of Nasse, Nicod, and other authorities. It is nevertheless as a primary affection, and not in- duced by injury, or previous disease of the bones, or of the soft tex- tures, not very frequent. When it takes place, the morbid action may affect either the nerve-coat or the nervous matter, or both. In the first case the neurilema is thickened, hardened, and rendered rigid. The ner-