837 INDURATION OF THE PANCREAS. that they are doubtless to be regarded as symptoms rather than preliminary conditions. § 4. Scleroma or Indurating Inflammation of the Pan- creas; SciRRHUS OF RhAN AND MANY OTHER AUTHORS, IMPRO- PERLY.—The pancreas is subject to slow chronic inflammation, which, without tending to suppuration, renders the gland much harder than natural, without, it is said, otherwise changing its structure. All that is meant by this, I presume, is, that the structure is not sen- sibly changed; for if minutely examined and compared with the sound pancreas, it will be found to be considerably altered. This chronic inflammation, though mistaken for scirrhus, and as such described by Tissot, Storck, Morgagni, Haller, Baader, Hahn, Portal, and others, is quite distinct from it, in so far as it does not pi esent the true scirrho-carcinomatous transformation. It appears to be the same change which has been described by Pemberton under the vague name of Disease of the Pancreas. Instances of preternatural hardness of the pancreas have been noticed by Riolan, Charles Le Poix, De Paw, Harder, Cheselden, Haller, Morgagni, Tissot, Baader, and Rahn; but all have con- founded, under the general name of scirrhus, a change which was evidently the effect of inflammation, probably of a chronic cha- racter, acting on the glandular tissue. The observations of these authors appear to have been totally overlooked, at least by Enov- ish physicians. Cheselden had early observed what has often since been confirmed, namely, the effect of the indurated pancreas in compressing the common biliary duct, and thereby causing fatal jaundice.* But from the time of this author downwards, no at- tempt is made to explain the anatomical characters of these in- stances of scirrhus or induration. Dr Latham had the merit of directing the attention of the profession in 1806 to the symptoms of the disorder, as distinct from disease of the liver and other ab- dom,nal organs.! In 1816, Mr BedingBeld, in speaking of cases all Zm "I! P,anCre c’ StateCl’ ‘hat in a <*» of cases, attended with dyspeptic symptoms, and often with jaundice it «s found on inspection that the pancreas was always more or less Twelfth Edition. The Anatomy of the Human Body. By Willnm PhnUQi i London, 1784. Book hi. chap. y. p. ij;6. 7 ^ Cheselde»- + Remarks on Tumours which have occasion-ill,, i,„ •• . , L'ver. By J. Latham, M. D, F. R S &c R ^ m ™ ak°n for Dlseascs of the V°l- iv- P- 47. London, 1813. ’ ' uul 11 Dec 180(1. Medical Trans,