540 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. females. The latter is of a different nature, and is both the effect and proof of a morbid state of the system. Restricted in this manner, hemorrhage from the corion may take place in two modes; either when the corion only is affected, or when it is affected in common with many other membranes. The first case constitutes the simple purple disease {purpura sim- plex) of authors; of the second we have examples in the hemor- rhagic purples {purpura hemorrhagica) or land-scurvy, and in the genuine sea-scurvy, {scorbutus.) The anatomical characters of the disease consist in bright red or crimson spots, becoming in a day or two purple or livid, afterwards brown, and when about to disappear, assuming a yellow tint. They are occasionally attended with long livid stripes {vibices, molopes), or patches {eccliymomata;) and in some instances the cuticle is raised into vesicles or large purple blebs, {phlgctcence,) containing bloody or purple serous fluid. These spots consist of blood or bloody fluid, effused on the outer surface of the corion, which is soft or pulpy, velvety, and reddish, from injection of its vessels. § 2. Angiectasis.—Anastomotic aneurism is frequent in the corion, and has been observed by J. Bell, Freer, Travers, and Wardrop. Though congenital, it must not be confounded with the na^vus ma- ternus or birth-spot (Venvie,) which appears to consist in a peculiar original malformation of the corion. A similar congenital defect is the white-spot (leucosis, leucosthiopia,) which consists in the ab- sence of the polished vascular surface of the corion. Occasionally it takes place during life, and in minute spots is observed to follow diseases in which the cuticular surface of the corion has been de- stroyed by ulceration. III. Tumours.—§ 1. Meliheris ; Cutaneous or Follicular Wen. The only encysted tumour which takes place in the skin consists in the immoderate enlargement of one or more of its mucous follicles, in consequence of obstruction of the excretory duct. When from any cause this takes place, the sebaceous matter, which in the healthy state is propelled to the surface and removed, accumulates in the interior of the follicle, which is thus inordinately distended, till by removing the obstruction the orifice is opened and the inspissated matter eliminated. It almost invariably again accumulates, unless care be taken to keep the excretory duct pervious,—an object which is most easily and certainly attained by frequent ablution. Tins mode of explaining the origin of the cutaneous folliculated tumour