SEROUS MEMBRANE.—INFLAMMATION. ' of each half, the cerebral matter afterwards to constitute the he- mispheres is deposited from the vessels of its central or attached, surface. At this period the arachnoid pellicle cannot be distin- guished. It is only when a considerable part of each hemisphere ?s formed that the free surface of the pia mater can be shown to be covered by arachnoid membrane. This may be stated m gene- ral terms to be between the end of the fifth and the middle of the seventh month., The free surface of the dura mater begins to be perceptible about the same time. § 4. The tunica albuginea of the testicle may be here mentioned as a membrane composed of fibrous tissue, embracing the gland, and a very thin pellucid layer outside, without intermediate filamentous tissue.—a peculiarity in which it resembles the female ovary. Section II. The serous membranes are the seat of a considerable number of morbid processes, which, according as they take place in one mem- brane or another, give rise to several of those diseases which it is the province of nosology to distinguish and of medicine to treat. Most of these processes may be referred to inflammation or its ef- fects, dropsy, hemorrhage, morbid deposits, and new growths. I. Inflammation occurs in serous membrane under at least two forms, acute and chronic. The anatomical characters of the process vary according to its acute or chronic character, and ac- cording to the physiological peculiarities of the affected membrane. These characters it is perhaps most convenient to examine, as they appear in the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum, in which they assume their most perfect form. § 1. When inflammation commences in a serous or diaphanous membrane, the first change which is observed to take place in it, is diminution or loss of its transparent and glistening appearance.* It becomes opaque, dull, and in some instances dry. This change is very well seen, not only in the pleura, pericardium, and perito- naeum, but in the arachnoid membrane, in which it is distinct when * “ When inflammation,” says Hunter, “ takes place in parts that have a degree of transparency, that transparency is lessened. This is probably best seen in membranes, such as those membranes which line cavities or cover bodies in those cavities, such as the pia mater, whore in a natural state we may observe the blood-vessels to be very distinct.”—4to, p. 2111.