GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 796 layer of cells, like the intestine within the peritonaeum. The Mal- pighian capillary net-work further possesses the essential element of secretion, in which the blood undergoes those chemical changes, which the metabolic force of the gland-cells imparts to the secreted product. The secretion in the Malpighian vessels differs from the usual secretions, only in so far as between vessels and secreting cells there is no structureless membrane; which last, however, ap- pears not to be an essential condition to the process of secretion. On the existence of ciliary motions at the point of transition of the uriniferous tubes to the capsule, evidence is contradictory. Huschke and Reichert could observe no ciliary motion in the places indicated by Mr Bowman; and the latter denies even any layer of cells at the inner surface of the capsule. On the other hand, Bis- choff is convinced of the presence of cilia in the kidneys of the frog. 1 Valentin observed ciliary motions not only in the spots indicated by Mr Bowman, but even within the capsule ; and Pappenheim gave a verbal communication on the same fact. The result of the inquiries of Gerlach is as follows. In mammalia he could never, unless he examined perfectly recent kidneys, observe ciliary motions either at the cervix or in the capsule. On the other hand, he found the inner wall of the capsule lined with a very slender layer of cells, which is seen very distinctly at the edge of the capsule. Between these cells lining the inner wall of the capsule and those which cover the Malpighian net-work, normally there is found a small interval. In examining the recent kidneys of the frog, on the other hand, Gerlach convinced himself of the presence of ciliary motions not only in the cervix or collar, but also in the whole inner surface of the capsule; and he thinks it probable that ciliary motion is a phe- nomenon not peculiar to the renal capsule of the frog, but gene- rally diffused over the animal kingdom.* The results obtained by Bidder are not less at variance with those given by Mr Bowman. Bidder states, first, that in no circumstances, and by no means which he could devise, could he obtain any certain evidence of con- nection of the glomeruli with the uriniferous ducts. The vascular bundles were always found below and between the uriniferous ducts, without interior relation to themselves, either uncovered or sur- * Beitriige aur Strukturlehre cler Niere von Dr Joseph Gerlach, prakt. Acrzte in Mainz. Archiv fur Anatomic, Physiologic, und Wissensehaftliche Medicin, von Dr Johannes Muller. 1B45, No. IV. Scite 37».