VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. 123 nous system is such an inflection presented as that which the inter- nal carotid makes in the carotic canal. The general result of this is, that a set of venous tubes is shorter than a corresponding set of arterial ones. The trunks also are less inflected than the branches. 4. The mutual communications of the venous system, (anasto- moses^ inosculationes,) are more numerous and frequent than those of the arterial. 1. The minute veins communicate so freely as to form a perfect net-work. 2. In the twigs, though more rare, these communications are still frequent. 3. In the branches, though less numerous, they are nevertheless observed; and in this respect alone the venous must be greatly more numerous than the arterial inosculations, which are confined chiefly to the smaller and more remote parts of the system. These inosculations, indeed, between the venous branches, constitute one of the most peculiar and important characters of their arrangement, in so far as by their means the communication is maintained between the superficial and deep-seated vessels of the system. Thus the emissary veins are the channel of communication between the cerebral sinuses and the temporal, occipital, and other external veins. The external and internal jugulars communicate by one or two considerable ves- sels. And the free communication between the basilic and cepha- lic by the median veins, that between them and the deep brachial vessel, and that between the saphena and its branches and the fe- moral vein, are sufficiently well known. The application of these anatomical facts to the ready motion of the venous blood is obvious. But of all the communications between the branches or large vessels of the venous system, the most important, both anatomical- ly and physiologically, is that maintained by means of the vena azygos between the superior and inferior cava. The azygos itself is connected at its upper or bronchial extremity with the superior cava, and at its lower extremity it is in some subjects connected directly with the inferior cava, in others by means of the right re- nal vein, and in most by the first lumbar veins. By means of the demiazyyos, again, it is connected with the left renal vein, or the lumbars of the same side, and in some instances directly with the inferior cava. To the azygos and demiazygos, therefore, belong the remarkable property of connecting not only the venous canals of the upper and lower divisions, but those of the right and left halves of the body.