474 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. celli, which are then softened, partially destroyed, and excavated. If in this state such a bone be examined, the broken cancelli are filled with a reddish, soft, spongy vascular mass, producing flabby granulations passim, and secreting bloody sanious fluid. The compact shell is partly destroyed by irregular ulceration, and part- ly extruded by the distending force of the swelled medullary web. The diseased epiphysis then presents a large irregular anfractuous cavern filled with soft spongy substance, which is either the web itself, or the new products which its inflammation has generated.* In this manner it is frequent in the upper end of the tibia, or the lower end of the femur, or in the extremities of the radius or ulna. With deference, therefore, to the observation and assiduity of Mr Howship, I cannot agree with this author, that spina ventosa is an enlargement affecting the cylindrical bones, unless with the limita- tion above stated. The only cylindrical bones in which its occur- rence may give colour to this opinion are the phalanges. These, however, have no distinct medullary cavity, and resemble in all re- spects the epiphyses and the short irregular bones in general. In these the disease occurs in children and young persons. It occurs also in the lower jaw, and occasionally in the vertebrae. 7. Enostosis. Medullary Exostosis.—To this head I do not re- fer the examples quoted by Houstet from Ruysch, Cheselden, and Daubenton, and which I conceive belong to necrosis. There are nevertheless instances of cylindrical bones having an accretion of bony or osteo-colloid matter deposited in their interior, to such an extent as at once to enlarge much the dimensions of the bone, and obliterate the medullary cavity. Examples of this are recorded by Cheselden,! Mery,! Tripier, Houstet,§ and J. Bell; and Sir A. Cooper describes the disease at length under the name exostosis of the medullary membrane. According to the observation of this experienced surgeon, the disease occurs in two forms, the fungous and the cartilaginous. Both originate from the medullary web; both produce enlargement, expansion, softening, and separation of the osseous walls; and both ultimately terminate in ulcerative ab- sorption of the affected bone. In certain circumstances, however, they differ from each other. The fungous exostosis consists of lo- • See Observations on the Morbid Appearances and Structure of Bones, &c. By John Howship, Esq. Med. Chir. Tr. Vol. x. p. 176, and several fine delineations of the disease. -|- Ostcographia, p. 53. J Mem. de l’Academie des Sciences, 1706, p. 245. § Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. Chirurgie, Tome iii. p. 130.