MORBID STATES OF THE KIDNEY.—HYDATOMA. 961 rax. Endocarditis, causing valvular disease ; hypertrophy, simple, excentric, and concentric ; pericarditis. 3. In the abdomen. Spontaneous or irritative vomiting, and va- rious dyspeptic symptoms. Diarrhoea frequently recurring in fits; and connected with enlargement of the agminated or isolated fol- licles of the ileum. Effusion within the abdomen. Hypertrophy of the liver, fatty degeneration, and kirrhosis. 4. In the extremities. Anasarca. Rheumatic pains and swellings; especially synovial rheumatism, affecting the knee-joints and other articulations. Erysipelas of the face or extremities. All these morbid states are more or less dependent on the mor- bid state of the blood, and especially the presence of urea in it, which acts as an irritant to the different textures and organs. § 11. Hydatoma.—The kidney is liable to the formation of small watery cysts or vesiculce, generally of an ovoidal shape, sometimes roundish, varying in size from tares or vetches up to that of small beans. These bodies appear on the cortical surface of the kidney as soon as the outer tunic is torn off. In some instances, they are few in number, two, three, or four; but I have seen them so nu- merous that it was impossible to count them. They penetrate through the whole cortical substance of the gland; but seldom en- croach much on the tubular or medullary part, which, however may present two or three of them. On the origin of these serous cysts no correct information has been adduced. Some have thought that they are degenerated Mal- pighian bodies. But this idea is totally at variance with any thing hitherto known as to these bodies. They may be enlarged and dilated portions of the serpentine tubules. But there are no means of proving this idea. The most probable opinion is, that they are mere serous cysts developed as other serous cysts in the cellular tissue of the kidney. The cortical matter is always removed or absorbed to make room for them; and a kidney affected by this disease presents the aspect of an immense number of small ovoidal cavities excavated in the cortical portion. This change is often associated with granular degeneration; and the urine is usually albuminous. § 12. Atrophy. This term is applied in the kidney to two forms ol disease. First ;-In steatosis or granular degeneration, after the adipose matter has been infiltrated into the cells and tubules the cortical and vascular portion of the kidney becomes shrunk and 3 p