DIVISION OF THE TEXTURES. 13 This arrangement, which is undoubtedly very elaborate, and per- haps more comprehensive than either that of Bichat or any other author, is not, however, quite faultless. It may be doubted whe- ther the lens is an organic body at all, and it is certainly much less an organic substance than the cornea, with which it is arranged. Cellular and cutaneous tissue are certainly not so similar as to ad- mit of being referred to the same rank ; and the organs destined to contain secreted fluids are so opposite and different in structure, that it appears rather violent to connect them in one group. The proper membrane of the intestinal tube is, according to the result of my observations, nothing but the coriou of the villous mem- brane ; at least I cannot conceive any other part to which the de- scription will apply; and surely the soft cerebral membrane (pia mater) cannot justly be associated with such substances as liga- ments, tendons, or aponeurotic sheaths. The system termed glandular by Professor Mayer is still more awkwardly situate. For not only is it doubtful with what justice the lymphatic glands are associated with the proper secreting glands, but the latter are themselves much varied in structure and anato- mical characters; and as to the old notion of glandular structure being merely an expansion of vessels arranged in a peculiar man- ner, I fear that is not only too general to be true, but that there is no tissue in the human body which might not be defined in the same manner. In the formation of any arrangement of the organic tissues of which the human body consists, two extremes must be sedulously avoided. First, care should be taken not to diminish too much the number of individual or distinct tissues, and to avoid the use- less and unnatural system of referring the several substances em- ployed in the construction of the human body to a small number of general heads. This was the error of the ancient physiologists, who, from a wish to simplify more than nature admitted, referred the various animal substances to an elementary fibre or fibres, which they imagined formed the basis or ground-work of the whole animal organization. The second extreme which ought to be avoided in this matter is the practice of dividing the substances of the animal body into a greater number of distinct kinds and species than is convenient or necessaiy. Very superficial inspection, indeed, shows that they are not the same either in anatomical or physical characters, or in che-