GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 752 arthric or extra-capsular cellular tissue, which is infiltrated with sero-albuminous fluid; or it may cause effusion within the capsule and synovial membrane. The former is the most favourable and least injurious. The latter, if chronic, is always a troublesome and sometimes a hurtful lesion. As the disease proceeds, the stiffness and swelling increase, im- peding greatly the mobility of the joint; preventing it either from being fully extended or easily inflected. Pain is also superadded, especially when the joint is moved; and if the joint he one used in supporting the person, as the knee-joint, the individual can no longer support himself without pain. Pain, however, is not the worst symptom of this disorder. Stiff- ness, swelling, immovableness, and consequent lameness, are the usual results. This disease may affect any joint; but it is most commonly seen in the elbow-joints, the knee-joints, the wrists, and the articula- tions of the fingers. The pulse is not accelerated, nor are there always indications of fever. After some time, however, the urine evinces alkaline pro- perties, and may deposit or contain ammoniaco-maguesian phosphate. As stiffness and swelling increase, there is felt on moving the joint a grating sensation, and a rough grating sound may be heard, as if two rough surfaces were moving on each other. In this con- dition the disease may continue for months «nd even years. Death does not often take place in the early stage, or in the course of this disease. In one case, nevertheless, a female who pre- sented symptoms of it in one knee-joint, which had been lasting for many weeks, if not two months or more, was attacked with symp- toms of delirium tremens and died. The affected knee-joint, which was semibent, was examined, and the synovial membrane was found of a bright scarlet-red colour, with numerous blood-vessels, a little roughened with deposits of blood and lymph, thickened, and at. one part it appeared to be wearing away by a species of absorp- tion. This, however, was not ulceration. The state of the articular cavity and surfaces in cases of 1 ong duration, is the following. At first when the joint is stiff and slightly swelled, sero-albu- minous fluid is moderately effused. Afterwards, as the joint is moved, it is effused more copiously. This fluid contains much urate of soda, which is separated and coats the membrane. According to some it also contains lime, which is deposited as a carbonate on