168 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the vessels are large, numerous, and well filled with blood; and if divided in the living body they are the source of abundant hemor- rhage. In some instances these vessels penetrate from the adjoin- ing tissue all round the tumour in the form of numerous minute arteries, which afterwards are ramified in the tunJour. In others, which are perhaps more numerous, they enter at one point in the shape of three or four large trunks, which are afterwards divided in the substance of the growth. As these new or foreign growths, therefore, are known to abound in capillaries, it is inferred, that, if this abundance of vessels be not the direct cause, they furnish the materials of growth. The diffi- culty in the theory of their formation is to ascertain the circum- stances which first determine this local development of the capillary system. In some instances it can be distinctly traced to mechani- cal injury, (John Bell and Abernethy.) After a bruise, for exam- ple, blood and lymph being poured forth, instead of being absorbed, become penetrated with vessels, which conversely are stimulated by the presence of this substance to convey more blood, and thus enlarge in size. In others this local capillary development com- mences without obvious cause. Upon the whole, the growth of tumours is to be viewed as the result of an aberration or anormal action of the usual nutritive process to which the capillary vessels are subservient.* The theory of tumours or morbid growths depending on inor- dinate local development of the capillary system was understood by Valsalva, Morgagni, Pohl, and others, but was first fully illus- trated by John Bell and Mr Abernethy,f and afterwards by Sir Everard Home and Mr Macilwain. * “ As wounded parts are healed by adhesion, so are dilated or strained parts by in- creased nutrition.”—“ Tumour and various modifications of disease follow from the same law of vascular action and nutrition which maintained health. If each indivi- dual vessel, whether artery or vein, have its coats thickened by dilatation or partial laceration, the same must be presumed of each minuter vessel in the distended womb, of each lesser vein and petty artery in a piece of distended skin, or in a diseased gland. The enlargement, then, of each blood-vessel by deposition of nutritious matter along its sides makes not a mere distension of vessels, but a solid and permanent bulk. The more vessels are enlarged consistently with their healthy action, the more particles are they able to secrete ; whence the increment of tumours is perpetually accelerating unless when opposed by peculiar causes.”—The Principles of Surgery, by John Bell, Surgeon. Vol. III. Discourse ii. -f An Attempt to form a Classification of Tumours according to their Anatomical Structure, by John Abernethy. London, lfill.