GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 176 Section II. _ Little is known regarding the peculiar pathological states of this tiss xe. _ 1- Rupture of its vessels occasionally occurs, but is not attended with peculiar phenomena, unless there is an external communica- tion, when hemorrhage takes place. 2. It is liable to a peculiar species of enlargement or swelling, in which the parts are very tense, and resemble a swollen bladder. They have an oedematous appearance, yet it is not oedema. This is often seen in phimosis and paraphimosis, in enlargement of the nymphce and labia in females, and in a swelling incident to the eyelids after the application of leeches in both sexes. This swelling, I think, is most usually connected with some mor- bid state of the surface of the parts; either inflammation, as in go- norrhoea and leucorrhoea, or an abrasion, an ulcer, or laceration, or some similar lesion. 3. Priapism is a morbid state of the erectile tissue of the caver- nous body. The painful and anomalous mode of erection termed chordee appears to depend on the erectile tissue of the corpus spon- giosum being unduly irritated by the presence of the inflamma- tory stimulus in the urethral membrane and its submucous tissue. There is at the same time, however, a spasm of the erector muscle, (ischio-cavernosus,) which, Haller justly remarks, instead of erect- ing the penis, ought to depress it. 4. Is the erectile tissue more prone to hemorrhage than others ? Is this hemorrhage more frequently venous than arterial ? These are points on which we have almost no certain information. Urethral hemorrhage, when violent and copious, may depend on rupture of the erectile tissue of the spongy body, or those vessels of the ure- thra which have been well delineated by Mr Shaw.* When it is so copious as to be restrained with difficulty, there is reason to be- lieve that a communication is opened between the urethra and the communicating veins of the spongy body. It may here be mentioned that hemorrhage from the vagina, whether intentionally or accidentally inflicted, is always most pro- fuse and copious, and difficult to be restrained. From this cause various females in this country have died, before adequate means * Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. X. jj. 342 and 357.