MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 565 The progressive development of mucous membrane, and espe- cially of its villi, has been studied by Meckel in the intestinal tube. This anatomist states, that in the beginning of the third month he first recognized them distinctly in the form of long plaits, (Langen- falten) thickly set on the inner surface of the intestine, and scarce- ly indented on their free edge. The number and depth of these folds, and their indentations, are gradually increased, till in the end of the fourth month, sometimes sooner, in place of the simple long plaits, the observer may distinguish an irregular multitude of mi- nute elevations, which become proportionally larger at a later pe- riod of foetal existence. He therefore infers that the villi are form- ed by the gradual indentation and decomposition (Zerfallung) of simple longitudinal plaits.* * * ยง The connection between the mucous membranes and the skin, I have elsewhere stated, was first well demonstrated by Bonn, who traces their mutual approximation and reciprocal transition into each other, and represents the former as an interior production of the latter enveloping the internal as the skin incloses the external organs.f This view has been adopted by Meckel and Beclard, to whom I refer for the proofs of its accuracy. I cannot conclude the subject, however, without observing that one of the most con- clusive arguments in its favour is derived from the circumstances of the development of the intestinal canal during the first months of uterine life. The history of this curious process, which has been so happily investigated by Wolff and Okenj, and so well traced by Meckel, shows that at this period the gastro-enteric mucous mem- brane, which is previously formed by the vitellar membrane of the ovum, and the allantois or vesical membrane, which afterwards forms the genito-urinary mucous surface, are in direct communica- tion on the median line, and afterwards at the navel with the skin or exterior integument.ยง The detailed history of this process be- longs, however, rather to special than to general anatomy ; and I notice it here as the strongest proof which occurs to me of the con- nection between the skin and the mucous membranes, and as an * Deutches Archiv fiir die Physiologic von J. F. Meckel, 3tcr Band. Halle und Berlin, 1817. P. 68. "f Specimen Anatomico-Medicum Inaug. &c. Continuationibus Membranarum, &c. &c. In Sandifort Thes. Vol. II. p. 265. Rotterod. 1769. t Jcnaische Zeitung, S. 207-208. ยง Deutches Archiv fiir die Physiologic, Dritter B. Halle und Berlin, 1817.