325 BRAIN. after cerebral disease, regarded as chronic softening, laboured un- der impaired memory, headach, and difficulty of expressing ideas, terminating in muscular weakness, and fatal convulsions. In this, with injection of the cerebral substance, was induration passing from the striated body of the left hemisphere through the nucleus, at the upper region of which it formed a cavity with hard yellow walls, and a similar hardened portion in the posterior lobe.* The disease is not very frequent in this country. One very well marked case, however, came within the sphere of my observa- tion, and was inspected by me after death. The following was the state of the brain. A considerable portion of the outer part of the left hemisphere was unusually firm and hard, not dissimilar to cheese. The space so changed was a sort of crescentic segment of the hemisphere, being about three-fourths of an inch, or one inch broad in its middle, which corresponded with the middle of the hemisphere, and tapering away to a narrow line or point before and behind. The induration ascended to the upper part of the hemisphere to within one inch of the mesial plane and mesial fis- sure, and below it approached close on the hippocampus major, part of which was involved in the induration. The indurated seg- ment thus formed, was bounded, as it were, between the segments of two spheres of unequal diameter, the external one being the small- est or of greatest curvature. The portion when divided cut firm, and did not fall down or dissolve on exposure to air. The pia mater adhered to it most firmly, and seemed to be thickened over the in- durated portion. The convolutions were flattened and depressed, and presented in this respect an obvious difference from those of .the opposite hemisphere. At the internal margin of the indurated portion was a band or zone of cerebral substance distinctly soften- ed, while within that again the rest of the brain presented its natural consistence. The indurated portion, both gray and white, presented, 1 thought, very few small vessels, but a few large ones dispersed through the mass. Serous fluid, to a small extent, was effused into the subarach- noid tissue, mostly at the apex and base of the organ, and also within the ventricles. To the best of my remembrance, this is the only case of indura- tion of the brain, in which that lesion was associated with softening Traitc Clinique et Physiologique de l’Encephalitc, Observ. xl. p. 200.