GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 8G2 of a gnawing sense of emptiness. At the commencement it is not enlarged or prominent, but becomes so as the disease advances. The pulse, at first slow and natural, becomes afterwards quicker, varying from 90 to 100, and sharpish; the skin is cold, and dry or unctuous; the tongue furred ; the complexion sallow, and the look anxious. The appetite is variable, at one time apparently good, at others completely gone, while squeamishness and even vomiting may succeed. The matters discharged are chiefly tough phlegm, with disordered bile and the portions of food eaten. At the same time, the patient is hot, thirsty, and restless. The bowels are ge- nerally bound; the stools darker or lighter than natural; after- wards they are loose, frequent, and lienteric. The urine is scanty, depositing a copious red flaky sediment. But the most distinguishing character of this disease is, that whatever variation these symptoms may present, and however ob- scure they may be, there is a distinct accession of fever during the night. The pulse may be calm and of natural frequency, the skin may be cool, and the sensations of thirst and hunger may be na- tural during the day;—in the course of the night the skin becomes hot, the face reddish, the pulse strong and frequent, the mouth dry and parched, and the patient is restless, or enjoys only disturbed slumber; as morning advances slight sweating comes on, with abatement of his sufferings and tolerable sleep. If the disease is not arrested, all the symptoms, and especially those of night fever, become more severe and distressing; the patient tosses about in bed with a dry burning skin, and scalding palms, constant and in- satiable thirst, and, in some instances, a severe husky cough; his nights become sleepless, and it is only in the morning, after tlie urgent complaints are relieved by partial sweating, that he falls in- to a laboured, interrupted, and unrefreshing slumber. His strength and flesh waste, his appetite decays, and he at length sinks into hec- tic, which shortly terminates in death. Dissection shows, instead of an abscess of considerable size, se- veral small distinct collections of purulent matter similar to the small abscesses (vomicae) of the lungs. They may be very nume- rous, and not larger than peas, or fewer in number, and as large as a hen’s egg. The whole mass of the liver is altered in colour; it appears as if parboiled, and its texture is firmer than natural, giving when cut the sensation of the knife passing through a soft cartilaginous mass. Very little blood issues from the incision. In some instances the surface of the organ is sprinkled with white spots