GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 706 scesses in the subserous tissue and on the surface of the cardiac fibres. In inflammation of the peritonaeum it is more common ; and careful inspection may detect effusion below the intestinal, and more distinct- ly in some instances below the muscular peritonaeum. In this situa- tion, indeed, may be found patches and minute deposits of purulent fluid, not only in the ordinary forms of peritonaea! inflammation, but in that which takes place in the persons of puerperal women. § 6. A third change mentioned as a consequence of inflammation in serous membranes is inordinate thickness and some degree of pulpi- ness.* On this point there is among pathologists some difference of opinion. The occurrence of thickening is contradicted by Laen- nec, who denies that inflammation produces thickening of the pleura, and contends that observers have been misled by morbid deposits on its surface, or the formation of new membranes. Without doubt- ing the discernment or candour of this pathologist, I must remark, that, as Baillie expressly mentions thickening as a consequence of inflammation in the pleura, peritonaeum, and mesentery, and as this is confirmed in regard to the peritonaeum by the testimony of Pem- bertonf and Black,$ the question resolves itself into one of indivi- dual observation. If, in some instances of acute inflammation of serous surfaces, thickening is not recognized, there are few in which the chronic form of the process affects the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum, without more or less thickening of the membrane. The appearance of this, indeed, may arise from effusion into the subserous filamentous tissue; but in cases of chronic inflammation the membrane itself appears to be not only thicker, but harder and firmer than natural. Does this change depend on effusion of lymph into its component tissue, or development of vessels which are loaded with various fluids? The thickening to which I allude is mostly at the attached surface; and I think that in that situation it de- pends on the effusion of lymph into the subserous cellular tissue. In chronic peritonitis I have observed the attached surface of the membrane manifestly loaded with extravasated matter in the inter- stices of the filamentous tissue. What are the cases in which the serous membranes become pulpy or softer than natural, while they are also thickened? On these points accurate information is sti wanting. . ,, On the other hand, it must be allowed, that the conditions usua y mentioned as examples of thickening of the serous membranes, are, - Baillie’s Morbid Anatomy, p. 54, 127, and 200, in reference to the mesentery. t On the Abdominal Viscera. $ Clinical and Patholog.cal Reports, &c.