209 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, &C. ous fluid, which he seems inclined to ascribe to transudation. Mus- cular fibres, of which Sheldon speaks positively, Cruikshank re- presents, though seen in some instances, (Chap, xii.) yet to be more generally not demonstrable. Their existence, though admitted by Schreger and Soemmering, is denied by Mascagni, Rudolphi, and J. F. Meckel, and I, may add, by Bichat and Beclard. This account differs not much from that of Dr Gordon, who could not recognize distinctly more than one coat, similar to the inner coat of veins. The filamentous layer noticed by Bichat, and considered by Mascagni as an external coat, is of course excluded. The knotted or jointed appearance of lymphatics is occasioned chiefly by short membranous folds in their cavity called valves. These folds are thinner than the venous valves; but they are equally strong, and have the same shape and mode of attachment to the inside of the vessel. They are generally found in pairs, but never three at the same point. A single valve is sometimes found at the junction of a large branch with a trunk, or of a trunk with a vein. According to Cruikshank there is considerable variety in the distribution of valves; but in general a pair of valves will be found at every one-twentieth of an inch in lymphatics of middling size. In the larger lymphatics they are less numerous than in the small. The structure of these valvular folds is as little known as that of the inner membrane, of which they appear to be prolonga- tions. According to Mascagni they sometimes contain a small portion of fine adipose substance. The tissue which forms the lymphatic tubes is strong, dense, and resisting; and, from the weight of mercury which they bear without rupture, it has been generally concluded, that they are stronger in proportion to their size than veins. This tissue also possesses considerable elasticity. The opposite states of lymphatics during digestion and after long- fasting, and the phenomena of mercurial injections, prove that the tissue of which they consist is distensible and contractile. Though it does not exhibit appearances of muscular structure, it has been long supposed to be endowed with a property analogous to irrita- bility. Such is the inference which Hunter, Hewson, Cruik- shank, and others have derived from various phenomena in the living and recently dead tissue. Though Bichat doubted what he termed organic sensible con- tractility, yet he admitted the insensible contractility as necessary to the functions ascribed to lymphatics. Previous to his time o