366 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. them. By Wutzer, who considers the ganglion of Gasserius, the ciliary and the maxillary of Meckel, as cerebral ganglions, they are divided into three sets, those of the cerebral system, the spinal sys- tem, and the vegetative, or those connected with the organs of invo- luntary motion.* Void of the dense strong coat with which the others are invested, the cerebral ganglions consist of soft secondary matter, connected to the filaments of one, or at most two branches, and are arranged with less complexity. (Wutzer.) The spinal ganglions are said to possess two coverings, one of which resembles the hard cerebral membrane, (meninx dura,) the other the soft cerebral membrane, (■meninx tenuis, pia mater.) The non-spinal, or compound ganglions, have also two coverings, which are merely different modifications of filamentous tissue less dense and compact than in the former. Both these sets of ganglions being by maceration stripped of their tunics, and deprived of the soft pulpy cellular matter, are resolved into an innumerable series of nervous threads, most of which are minute and scarcely percep- tible ; all are continuous with the nerve or nerves above and below the ganglion. It appears that the nervous chord, when it enters the one apex of the ganglion, begins to be separated into its com- ponent threads, which diverge and form intervals, between which the delicate cellular tissue is interposed; and that these filaments are subsequently collected at the opposite extremity of the ganglion, where they are connected with the other nerve or nerves. Scarpa, to whom we are indebted for the most of the knowledge we possess on this subject,! compares the arrangement to a rope, the compo- nent cords of which are untwisted and teased out at a certain part. Lastly, In the simple ganglions, the filaments of which they con- sist, invariably follow the axis of the ganglion; but in the compound ones they are found to rise towards the sides and emerge from them; and upon this variety in the direction and course of these filaments depends the variety of figure, for which these two orders of gan- glions arc remarkable. These nervous threads (stamina s.jila ner- vea) described by Scarpa, correspond to the medullary filaments (fila medullaria) of Wutzer. According to this anatomist these filaments, when about to enter the ganglion, lay aside their neurilem; yet they are sufficiently tough to resist a certain degree of tension. * De Corporis Humani Gangliorum Fabrica, &c. cap. i. ii. § 41, p. >52. t Anatomicarum Annotationum Liber Primus de Nervorum Gangliis et Plexubus. Auct. Ant. Scarpa.