MORBID STATES OF THE HEART.—ABSCESS. J 043 contorted fibres, similar to those which form the striated membrane of the vessels. Then is a layer of elastic fibres, which may be re- garded as an elastic tissue. Lastly, is a tissue which is called by Henle ligamentous, but which is manifestly the filamentous tissue that unites it to the muscular fibres of the heart. Of these four tunics, the three first only are proper to the endo- cardium. The fourth is common to it and the muscular fibres of the * heart. This description applies most to the endocardium of the auricles. Within the ventricles, the endocardium is altogether more deli- cate than in the auricles; the striated tunic is thinner; and the strong elastic fibres are entirely wanting. Ihe tricuspid and mitral valves are formed by duplications of this membrane; and in them the elastic tissue is abundant. Section II. Morbid States of the Heart. The heart is liable to manifold lesions, which it would require a considerable space to describe with the requisite detail and accuracy. Several of these have already received consideration, for instance inflammation and various lesions of the substance of the heart, un- der the head of diseases of the muscular system, and pericarditis under that of diseases of the serous membranes. The most im- portant which deserve consideration here are inflammation of the lining membrane, (endocarditis), and its effects, induration or ossi- fication of the valves; hypertrophy, partial or general; atrophy ; and passive aneurism. 5 § 1. Abscess of the heart.—This has been already considered at some length. Besides the cases there mentioned, I may notice the following as not less conclusive. Dr Chambers of Colchester records an example of the lesion in a boy of fourteen An abscess, containing two ounces of purulent matter, was "found deeply seated in the substance of the heart, and extending from auricle to auricle round the apex of the organ. In an instance of partial inflammation of the substance of the heart, described by M Grmtrac, matter was formed in the parietes of the left ventricle and burst into the pericardium. Mr Stallard of Leicester records an instance in a man of 60 * Ca8e of Suppuration of the Heart. 184-1. July 27th. P.557. By Richard Chamber*, M. D. Lancet,