372 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The tubules and cylinders now specified, which correspond with the primitive cylinders of Fontana, are merely in juxtaposition, and do not intermingle in substance with each other. The general accuracy of the facts now stated has been confirmed by Muller, Krause, Wagner, and Remak. Neither Ehrenberg nor Muller have been able to recognize in the roots of the sensi- ferous and motiferous nerves any essential difference in microsco- pical structure. In the hypoglossal and glossopharyngeal nerves are seen only cylindrical tubes. I have already shown what is meant by the organic end or ter- mination of a nerve. Although the nervous trunks are distributed in every direction through the animal body, they do not terminate in all the tissues or organs indiscriminately; and have been observed to be lost in the following only. ls£, the proper organs of sensa- tion, the eye, ear, nose, palate, and tongue; 2d, the muscles, whe- ther subservient to voluntary or to involuntary motion, as the heart, stomach, intestines, &c.; 3d, the mucous surfaces; Atli, the skin ; 5th, glands, salivary, liver, kidneys, &c.; 5th, bones. Nerves, therefore, are not, strictly speaking, organs of general distribution. According to Bichat, they have never been traced to the following tissues: —the cartilages, both articular and of the cavities; fibrous textures, viz. periosteum, dura meninx, capsular ligaments, aponeurotic sheaths, aponeurosis in general, tendon and ligament; fibro-cartilaginous textures ; those of the external ear, nose, trachea, and eyelids, (cartilages of other authors); the semi- lunar cartilages of the knee-joint; those of the temporo-maxillary articulation ; those of the intervertebral spaces; marrow; the lymphatic glands. To this we may add the testimony of a professed anatomist of the nervous system, whose reputation for patient and industrious re- search cannot fail to sanction every thing which he has advanced. “ In every subject,” says Walter of Berlin, “ in which I was desir- ous to trace the nerves, I injected the arteries with red-coloured wax, the veins with green, and even the lymphatics with quicksilver, so that I was able to distinguish the nervous filaments from each of these orders of vessels. By this contrivance, though it occupied much time and labour, yet I was satisfactorily convinced that the pleura, the pericardium, the thoracic duct, and the peritoneum, ie- ceive no nerves. Nay, that, contrary to the opinions of the mo6t