BONE. 447 rous, purulent or sero-purulent fluid in small quantity. This foi ms what is termed false joint. In the pregnant, or persons labouring under scurvy, and in those affected with the constitutional symptoms of syphilis, fracture is not united by bony union. 2. Diastasis.—Next to fracture may be placed detachment 01 disunion of the epiphyses, (diductio epiphysium.) In young sub- jects, while the epiphyses are still imperfectly united to the diaphy- sis, this may occur, in consequence of forcible stretching, or injury of the bone. In this manner it is noticed by Palfyn, Reichel,* Wil- mer,t and others. Reichel saw it in the humerus, and Wilmer in i the tibia. I have seen it in the humerus and in the femur, in which chiefly it occurs. Sometimes it may be traced to injudicious efforts by bone-setters in pulling a thigh-bone supposed to be dislocated. ! It is liable to be confounded with fracture of the neck of the thigh - I bone. If not disturbed, the injury is repaired by union either in the ordinary manner, or with more or less extensive ossification of the neighbouring parts, causing generally stiff-joint. Consecutive disunion of an epiphysis may happen in mollities ossium and in spi- na ventosa. (Trioen, Reichel.) The variety of disunion now mentioned is generally confined to the epiphysis of one bone. A more general disunion, however, oc- curring in most of the epiphyses of the skeleton, may take place in scurvy. This was remarked especially in the scorbutic epidemic of Paris 1743, and has since been occasionally seen. (Lind.) Inspec- tion shows that the bones are penetrated by bloody extravasation, —that the vessels are relaxed and atonized,—and that nutritious deposition is suspended. This scorbutic diduction, which depends on a disease affecting the whole system, may be removed by the same means which remove that morbid condition. Too often, how- ever, it takes place in that stage of the disease in which recovery is impossible. 3. I have above stated that it may be justly questioned whether bone itself undergoes the organic process of inflammation. Most of the facts hitherto collected, when well investigated, favour the inference, that the inflammatory conditions of bone are to be re- ferred to inflammation taking place either in the periosteum; or the tomcntose medullary web; or, finally, in the articular synovial * M. Georgii Ch. Reichel, de Epiphysium ab Ossium Diaphysi Diductione. Sandi- fort Thesaur. Vol. I. p. 1. t Cases and Remarks, &c. Lond. 1779. P, 228. 1