GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1056 situate in the lower end of the septum, and extended into the apex formed by the walls of the heart.* In size these aneurismal pouches vary. Some are small, not larger than a gooseberry ; others are much larger, and make a large projecting tumour externally, altering much the usual figure of the heart. The disease has been observed in general in persons above 25 ; and several of the cases have occurred in persons advanced in life. In only one case among 58 was the patient under 20 years. In the case given by Dr Pereira, the disease took place in a girl of 15 years, which is the earliest period yet recorded at which it has been observed. Partial aneurism of the heart is generally associated with other lesions of that organ and its valves. Thus the aortic valves are very generally rigid, steatomatous, or penetrated with specks and patches of bone. In some instances they are cribriform or perfo- rated by holes. In a few cases, the mitral valve is rigid and slightly ossified. In most cases, the lining membrane is more or less thick- ened, and not unfrequently white opaque spots in it are visible. Round the pouch itself there is usually observed a layer of fibres, rough, firm, and rigid, not unlike horse-hair. The ventricle, either right or left, is usually in a state of hypertrophy. In the case examined by myself, the heart weighed with the aorta 32 ounces; and if for the latter one ounce and a half or two ounces be deducted, it makes the heart 30 ounces, which is about three times more than the average weight of the adult heart in a state of health. Upon the mode in which these pouches are formed, it is not easy to give a decided opinion. It seems certain that, in most instances, the muscular fibres of the heart are lacerated transversely, and se- parated in their longitudinal direction. When the pouches are carefully examined, one portion of the sac is always more or less distinctly formed, by what we know must be the ends of the con- torted muscular fibres of the heart. These, it is true, are lined or covered by lymph and blood; but when this is removed, and even sometimes without, it is possible to trace the fibres ending abruptly. On the mode in which the laceration takes place, or the causes by which it may be produced, much difference of opinion prevails * Observations and Cases, &c. By Dr Craigic. Case .0.