GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 952 The intestinal raucous membrane is in persons who have present- ed diarrhoea during life, rough, villous, and vascular; the follicles of Peyer are enlarged; more frequently the isolated follicles are enlarged, prominent or ulcerated; and in some instances the isolated follicles of the colon are found the seat of ulceration. In a small proportion of cases the liver is found enlarged and its acini of a nutmeg colour. In some it has been found affected with kirrliosis; and in a few with adipescence. The bladder is generally much shrunk, and contains a small quantity of urine, which when heated furnishes more or less coa- gulable matter, sometimes in considerable quantity. The blood generally contains urea. The period at which the change now described in the structure of the kidney commences varies under different circumstances. I have seen a partial and limited form of it affecting one portion of the cortical matter between the second and third years. One specimen I met with in a complete form affecting the whole cortical matter with the buff-orange transformation, in a boy between six and seven years. Of its rate of progi’ess almost nothing is known, At first the change was observed mostly in the kidneys of adults ; and in them there were few or no means of ascertaining the exact period at which the disease began. From various circumstances, however, which appear in the course of the symptoms, it may be inferred, that it takes some time before it seriously impairs the functions of the gland, and that years may elapse from the first commencement of the disorder to the time, when the change in structure is so conside- rable as to impede in a vital degree the function of the kidney. Pathological Deductions.—Regarding the nature of this change, and its origin, various opinions are entertained. Dr Bright, who first directed attention to this change in the structure of the kidney, regards it as a species of degeneration; but thinks that there is in the kidneys in the early stage a process of slow inflam- mation, which lays the foundation of their future change in struc- ture.* Granular degeneration, as it is usually found after death by long-continued bad health, with or without anasarca, Dr Chris- tison regards as essentially a chronic disease; but allows that, when the kidneys are dark-coloured, flabby, and enlarged, in con- nection with coagulable urine and eventual suppression, they may have been in the state of ordinary inflammation ; (nephritis.f) It is * Reports of Medical Cases, Vol. i. London, 1827, p. 72. | On Granular Degeneration of the Kidneys, p. 10 and 11.