MUSCULAR TISSUE. 397 muscle thus formed is penetrated by arteries, veins, and nervous twigs, and is enclosed by filamentous tissue, which often contains fat. This fascicular arrangement appears to be confined to the muscles of voluntary motion. It is not very distinct in the heart or dia- phragm ; and in the urinary bladder and intestinal canal I have not recognized it. Nor is the parallel arrangement of the ultimate filaments always strictly observed in the involuntary muscles. The component fibres of this order of muscles are often observed to change direction, and unite at angles with each other. This fact, which was observed by Lewenhoeck, has been verified by Prochaska. Among microscopical observers it has been recently the prac- tice to distinguish muscular fibres into three sorts. ls£, Muscular fibres with cross strice, or articulated, moniliform fibres, containing the voluntary muscles ; 2d, Muscular fibres with the characters of the fibres of the middle arterial coat, the examples of which are found in the fibres of the stomach and intestinal tube, and the mus- cular coat of excretory ducts, for instance, the vas deferens; and, 3d, Muscular fibres with the character of ligamentous tissue, of which the iris and the tunic of the lymphatic vessels are understood to be good examples. The fibres of the voluntary muscles, as seen in the flesh of ani- mals and the human body, are separated by maceration or boiling into smaller or more slender fibres, which are the primitive fibres. The course of these is either straight or curled, rarely spiral. The individual inflections of the curled fibres, (fibres cirrosae,) are most- ly in sharp angles opposite each other, in a zig-zag direction ; and the angles of the zig-zag inflections are more or less acute. The diameter of the primary fibres in man and the mammalia varies. The most are from To-§0o to T<j^o of a Paris line, though some attain not the size of of a Paris line, and others again are so thick that they are from lonso to mho in breadth. Only the smallest approach the cylindrical shape. The largest are flat, but they are never so flat as inarticulated muscular fibres. The large primary fasciculi are by dark, frequent but interrupted longitudinal strice again divided into smaller fasciculi. Many, and especially the fine primary fibres, have a feebly granulated membranous covering, void of structure, and distin- guishing them from the fibrous content. The surface of a primary fasciculus is often covered with more