STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—MALPIGHIAN BODIES. 793 The blood leaving the Malpighian bodies is conveyed by their efferent vessels to the capillary plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. The vessels of this plexus lie in the interstices of the tubes, anastomosing everywhere freely, and forming one continuous net- work lying outside the tubes, in contact with the basement mem- brane. This capillary plexus is interposed between the efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies and the veins. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies never inosculate with each other, each being an isolated channel between its Mal- pighian tuft and the plexus surrounding the tubes. They are formed by the union of the capillary vessels of the tuft, and, after a course variable in length, they open into the plexus. They vary in size. In general they are smaller than the terminal twig of the artery, and scarce larger than the vessels of the plexus into which they empty their contents. They are larger in large Malpighian tufts. From the plexus now mentioned, the veins arise and form the set of venous plexus, situate in the nipple-shaped extremities of the cones, round the orifices of the tubes, and pursuing a retrograde course to empty their contents into veins situate at the base of the cones. Another set of venous radiculas are dispersed through the cortical part of the kidney, and each receives blood on all sides fiom the plexus surrounding the convoluted tubes. h rom the account now given of the arrangement of the vessels connected with the Malpighian bodies, Mr Bowman infers that in the kidney there are two perfectly distinct systems of capillary ves- sels, through both of which the blood in its course from the arteries into the veins passes. The first is that system of vessels proceeding immediately from the arteries, and inserted into the dilated extre- mities of the uriniferous tubes, (the Malpighian bodies,) the Mal- pighian capillary system ; the second that enveloping the convolu- tions of the tubes, and communicating directly with the veins The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies, which convey the blood between these two systems, Mr Bowman regards as perform- ing to the kidney the same function which the portal veins per- form to the liver, and these he accordingly regards as collected m the portal system ot the kidney. The only difference is the ah- sence of one general single portal trunk. In short, Mr Bowman thinks that he has established the follow, "'g facts. Ut’ That each Ma'P'gWan body consists of the dilated extremity