GENERAL ANI) PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 854 In the former case the disease constitutes hepatic peritonitis, a dis- order already noticed generally under the head of the peritoneum. ()ne or two points only deserve particular attention. 1. It is usually supposed that hepatic peritonitis is always an acute disease, or rather, that acute inflammation of the liver always affects the peritoneum. This is a mistake. The disease may, like other inflammations of serous tissue, assume either the acute or the chro- nic form; and it is not easy to say, from what is seen in the in- spection of bodies, which is the most frequent. Hepatic peritonitis is a disease not uncommon, especially when the substance of the liver is either congested, indurated, or affected with cirrhosis. In cases of this kind, almost uniformly, the whole convex upper surface of the liver is found adhering to the dia- phragm. Hepatic peritonitis is liable to take place in the concave surface of the gland, when the stomach is inflamed or affected by chronic ulcer. This ulcer, it has been shown, most commonly is seated in the small arch of the stomach ; and, if it destroy the gastric tissues down to the peritoneum, peritonitis then follows, with effusion of al- bumen, which may be in various states of consistence, from soft and semifluid up to organized membrane, according to the duration of the disease. Occasionally inflammation attacks the peritoneum covering the concave surface of the liver, in the site of the capsule of Glisson, and is mostly confined to that region. This is most commonly, nay, very generally, attended with yellowness of the surface. The in- flammation extends over the hepatic ducts and vessels in the cap- sule, and causes more or less constriction of the ducts. 2. Inflammation may attack the hepatic peritoneum at the ante- rior-inferior margin of the right lobe, either along with, or in con- sequence of, inflammation of the peritoneal coat of the colon, or even the pyloric end of the stomach. The former is the most com- mon. A good specimen of this I had occasion, on the 10th of Janu- ary 1839, to observe, in inspecting the body of a man destroyed by continued fever. A band of firm false membrane, about two inches broad, and from three to four inches long, extended from the an- terior margin of the liver and the fundus of the gall-bladder to the transverse arch of the colon, about one inch to the left of its angle, and connected that bowel firmly to the liver and gall-bladder. In- stances even are recorded, in which, in consequence of biliary calculi <j