277 BRAIN. brain, but the centre of the optic and striated bodies which is first deposited, and from which the process of deposition advances to both surfaces at the same time, and nearly at equal rates. These inferences are established by the phenomena obsei ved in the development of the organ in the young of mammiterous animals in general. Section II. Cerebral substance is liable to inflammation, acute and chronic, to hemorrhage, to effusions of serous fluid, to alterations in its na- tural consistence, and to tumours. 1. Enceplialia Acuta; Encephalitis. (Frank, Costantin.) Acute inflammation of the brain is a rare disease, and, perhaps, if always carefully investigated, would be found never to take place sponta- neously or primarily. As the effect of accidental violence, and the result of morbid poisons, it is much more frequent; and it is chief- ly under such circumstances that its phenomena and effects are known. (Pott, Dease, Hill, Malacarne, Desault, J. Bell, M. A. Petit, OTIalloran, Abernethy.) As the effect of mechanical in- jury, the disease is found to be generally circumscribed. Part of the brain becomes very vascular, acquires a red colour of various shades of intensity, and eventually becomes brownish or green, and much softer than natural. The formation of matter in a distinct cavity appears not so common in this form of the disease as in another, which I am soon to mention. An abscess is not very fre- quently remarked under such circumstances, unless when a foreign body, as a bullet, a stone, or a piece of bone has been driven into the brain. This process gives rise to intense headach, delirium, and intolerance of light, quickly succeeded by convulsions, coma, and death. Of the effect of morbid poisons in inducing cerebral inflam- mation more or less acute, an example is found in the severe form of fever prevalent in jails and camps. In several examples of this disease abscesses of the brain have been found, (Pringle); and it is often possible to trace the process from the first marks of injection to the complete formation of purulent matter. 2. Enceplialia Subacuta. (Pulpy destruction; ramollisscment, Bostan, Lallemand, &c.) Subacute or chronic inflammation of the brain is greatly more common. Its anatomical characters are much the same as those of the acute form; but the longer duration of the process gives rise to modifications which the pathologist should dis-