98 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. diseased in these modes, as the tunics do not easily become distended, they are liable to give way and burst on any occasion when the blood is either accumulated or delayed within their canals, or when the vessels themselves are exposed to any extraordinary stretching or twisting motion. Sudden or violent motion of any kind, indeed, is liable to produce rupture of arteries diseased and rendered brittle in the manner now specified. In short, arteries in this state are liable to inflammation, ulcera- tion, and rupture. 7. Aneurism. On the nature of the aneurismal tumour some difference of opinion has prevailed. Since it has been the custom to settle points of pathology by reference to dissection, three opi- nions have been successively entertained. First, It was maintain- ed by Eisner, Severinus, Hildanus, Sennert, and others, that aneurism was produced by rupture of the proper coats of the ar- tery. The second opinion, which is that of Fernel, Forestus, Diemerbroek, &c. is, that it consists in uniform dilatation of the arterial tunics. Thirdly, From the cases recorded by Lancisi, Friend, Guattani, Morgagni, and especially those described by Donald Monro,* it results that aneurism may arise either from rupture or from dilatation of the arterial tissues, or from both causes jointly. The first doctrine has been revived and strenuously and ingeni- ously defended by Scarpa, who infers that aneurism never consists in dilatation, but invariably arises from erosion and laceration of the proper coats, and injection of arterial blood into the filamentous or membranous sheath with which the vessel is invested. By Hodg- son, again, this doctrine has been successfully combated, and the third opinion shown to be most consonant with the process of aneuris- mal disease. The result of his inquiries may be stated in the follow- ing manner. ls£. In many aneurisms the first step is destruction and partial laceration of the internal and proper coats of the artery; and when the blood escapes from its cavity it distends the filamen- tous or membranous sheath into a cyst or sac, between which and the tunics it is found in successive layers. 2dly, In several aneu- risms the first step of the process is mere dilatation of the arterial tunics, either partial or general. When this has proceeded to a certain extent, varying in different cases, the arterial tissues give way, and the same process of hemorrhage and coagulation in suc- cessive layers results. * Essays and Observations, Phys. and Lit. Vol. III. Art. xii.