1036 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. substance of the lung, to the extent of one-third or half of a cu- bical inch is indurated. When this is divided, the centre of the mass is found to consist of a whitish-gray or bluish matter, very hard, and distinctly gritty, or with gritty particles disseminated through the mass. These bodies have been regarded by Laennec as the remains or vestiges of cicatrized vomicae. It is possible that this may be the case. But it is to be observed that these concre- tions occur in lungs in which there are no tubercles and no vomicae or traces of these cavities elsewhere. Hard stony bodies may occur also in other parts of the lungs. These are variable in size, from the bulk of a millet seed to that of a bean. They are traced to blood-vessels, and are vein stones; (phlcbolitho). § 13. Parasitical Animals.—a. Hydatids.—The acephalocyst has been found in the lungs by many observers ; and in several in- stances, acephalocysts have been discharged by coughing. They are formed either in the filamento-cellular tissue, or in the pleura ; from either of which they may find their way into the bronchi by suppuration, and hence be discharged by coughing. Instances of this kind are not uncommon.* On the origin and pathological relation of these bodies, a new, and, in several respects, peculiar view has been given by M. C. Baron, who, from the phenomena of various cases, traces an inti- mate connection between hemorrhagic effusions, and the presence of acephalocysts. This author thinks, that when blood is effused into the pulmonic substance, the mass undergoes various changes, the central continuing red, the peripheral yellow. The central portion may be expelled through orifices formed in the peripheral; or it is partly absorbed by the peripheral portion; which is thus progressively transformed into a cyst, which after some time may become a hydatid.f This method of explanation seems more applicable to the origin * Case of Hydatids discharged by Coughing. Related in a Letter from John Collett, M.D., Newbury, Berkshire. Transactions of College of Physicians, Vol. ii. p. 486. Lond. 1772. 135 acephalocysts coughed up in the course of 116 days. Case of Hydatids coughed up from the Lungs. By Dr Doubleday of Hexham. Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. v. p. 143. Lond. 1776. Hydatids in the Air Tubes of the Lungs. In a Letter from a Physician in London (Dr Pearson). Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. vii. p. 490. Edin. 1811. Case of Hydatids discharged from the Lungs. Guy’s Hospital Reports, Vol, i. p. 507. Lond. 1836. -f- De la Nature et du Developpement des Produits Accidentels. Par M. Le'Doc- teur Ch. Baron. Memoires de l’Academie, Tome xi. p. 381. Paris, 1845.