GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 62 At this period the constitutional symptoms, whieh consist in quick sharp pulse, great heat, thirst, loss of appetite, languor, and some- times delirium, assume the appearance of extreme oppression and mortal weakness. The pulse becomes much quicker, small and fluttering, sometimes intermittent; the tongue, which had previ- ously been covered with a thick, gray, or yellow, moist, viscid fur, or was red and glossy, is covered with a rough fur, dry, brown, and hard, yet the patient is insensible of thirst. The skin is dry, or partially moistened with cold unctuous sweats; the urine is scanty and high-coloured, sometimes entirely suppressed, or passes with the stools involuntarily; low mutturing alternates with stupor; the breathing becomes quick, panting, and laborious, or slow, lan- guid, and interrupted, and terminates in death. If the affected part or limb be examined after death, the whole subcutaneous adipose tissue, and the intermuscular cellular tissue, are found enlarged, gray, or ash-coloured, and distended with blood-coloured fluid, oily serum, or sero-purulent, or purulent matter. It is detached, in general, extensively from the several organs which it connects in the healthy state. Between the mus- cles, which are dark-coloured, softened, lacerable, and emit a fetid odour, are found long sinuous caverns filled with dirty ash-co- loured purulent fluid; sloughs or mortified shreds are seen here and there hanging from aponeurotic sheaths, tendons, or even blood-vessels; and while, in most cases shreds or filaments of the subcutaneous adipose and the cellular tissue are the only traces of its existence, in not a few instances the muscles are detached from the periosteum, and the periosteum from the bone. These shreds or filaments are mortified pieces or sloughs of adipose membrane and cellular tissue, and correspond to the pieces of wet tow men- tioned by Hunter and Sir E. Home, and the wads of wet shamoy leather noticed by Mr James. This may be regarded as the most exquisite and severe form of the disease. Its duration in such circumstances varies. It appears from the result of Dr Duncan’s observations, that death does not take place before the sixth day, but may occur in any subsequent one to the twelfth or fifteenth. Perhaps in the average number of cases, the seventh, eighth, or ninth may be stated as the day on which the termination occurs. In milder cases it may terminate in resolution. The general swelling subsides slowly, the pain disappears, the skin becomes