STEATOSIS OR GRANULAR DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY. 951 the striated texture. The change most usual in this class of cases is buff-orange, or tile-red; but in some instances it is so light as to be of a straw-colour or sienna-yellow. 6. In all the cases now mentioned, the transformation either af- fects chiefly, or is confined wholly, to the cortical matter of the gland. In a small proportion of cases, however, it either affects first and mostly the tubular portion of the kidney, or it affects that after previously affecting the cortical portion. In either case, it renders the tubular cones so affected very hard, almost cartilagi- nous, white or gray-white, or sienna-yellow. The nature of this change and its effects on the tubuli are not known. The tubuli are still pervious; but their tissue is probably thickened and indurated. The cortical matter is at the same time of a buff-colour, or tile-red, or sienna-yellow, but differing in shade from the colour of the tu- bular matter. In some of these varieties of renal disorganization, the kidney externally is marked by fissures so as to appear lobulated like the foetal kidney. It is uncertain whether this is the remains of the original foetal structure, or whether it is to be regarded as a return to the type of the foetal structure, as the effect of disease. To complete the morbid anatomy of this disease it is necessary to advert to the state in which other organs are occasionally found. The subcutaneous cellular membrane is in general more or less infiltrated with serous or sero-albuminous fluid. The serous membranes often present marks of inflammation, as lymph, soft or firm, purulent fluid, masses of lymph, and adhesions between their free surfaces. In the sub-arachnoid tissue of the brain serous fluid is sometimes effused. But the parts most com- monly presenting lymph or purulent fluid are the pleura and pe- ritoneum. In other instances, sero-sanguine fluid alone is found within the cavities of these membranes. In several cases I have met with lymph in the pericardium. The bronchial membrane is often lined with puriform mucus or muco-purulent matter streaked with blood ; and the other appear- ances of chronic bronchial inflammation are manifest. The lungs are in several cases affected with pneumonia; being- in a state of red or gray hepatization. In some instances tubercles and vomicae are found. In some there are the remains of pulmo- nary apoplexy. In a certain proportion ol cases the heart is found hypertrophied • the mitral and aortic valves are ossified, and the apertures contracted.