GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 286 I have elsewhere published in detail the circumstances of a case of abscess in the right hemisphere of the brain, immediately on the outside of the ventricles, in which this lesion accompanied or fol- lowed an attack of gangrene of the right lung. The matter was here contained within a distinct cavity ; was opaque, consistent, greenish-yellow, like well-formed purulent matter; and the progress of the symptoms had been carefully watched. The abscess was about two inches and a-half long antero-posteriorly, and one inch broad transversely,* and about one inch at its greatest vertical depth. I am aware that in both cases it may be argued there was merely coincidence in the two circumstances. And by some it may be even said, that the evidence is as strong for the affection of the lungs having followed that of the brain, as the affection of the brain fol- lowing that of the lungs. All this may be correct. The main point is to remark the fact of coincidence or simultaneous existence, and the anatomico-pathological fact, that in other instances the veins appear to act as the channels for conveying, through various parts of the human body, lympli, purulent matter, and other sub- stances presented to their orifices. One variety of cerebral abscess, that connected with discharge from the ear, originates in a more obvious manner. Purulent dis- charge from the ear-hole is indeed generally connected with in- flammation, subacute or chronic, of the dura mater, or vascular membrane, or both; and in some instances the disease takes an unfavourable turn in this manner, and speedily proceeds to a fetal termination. (Morgagni, Powell, case 5 ; Itard, Duncan Junior, Abercrombie.) In other circumstances, however, either with or without this meningeal inflammation, a similar affection strikes sud- denly a part of the cerebral substance, and, proceeding rapidly to the suppurative stage, forms a distinct cerebral abscess. Cases of this description were, early noticed by Ballonius, Gontard, and more recently by an anonymous writer,f Mr Brodie,^: Dr O’Brien,§ Mr Parkinson,|| and Dr Duncan Junior, * Cases and Observations illustrative of the Nature of Gangrene of the Lungs. By David Craigie, M. D., F. It. S. E., &c. Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. LI 1. p. 1, case 1. ■j- Medical Commentaries, II. 180. The History of a Suppuration of the Brain, &c. + Transactions of a Society, &c. Vol. III. p. 106. § Trans, of King and Queen’s Coll. Dublin, Vol. II. p. 309. || Medical Repository. London, 1817. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. Contributions to Morbid Anatomy, No ii. Vol. XVIT. p. 331. By A. Duncan, Jun. M. D., &c. Cases 4th, 5tli, and 6th.