117 VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. * X. Of Veins, p. 182. either obliterate the circular area of the vessel, tear the valve from the vein, or otherwise meet with resistance. The size of the valves is variable. In some instances they are sufficiently large to fill the canal of the vessel, and in others they are too small to produce this effect.. The obliteration of the cir- cular area of the vessel is most perfect when there are two or three at the same point. Bichat ascribed the variable state of this qua- lity to the dilated or contracted condition of the veins at the mo- ment of death. This, however, is denied by Magendie. In structure these valvular or parabolic folds are said to consist of a doubling, or two-fold layer of the inner membrane; and with this statement no fact of which we are aware is at variance. A hard prominent line, which generally marks their attachment of the fixed margin to the vein, is asserted by Bichat to consist of the proper venous tissue, the fibres of which, he says, alter their direc- tion for this purpose; and when the common or inner membrane reaches this line, it doubles or folds itself {die se replie) to form the valve, which thus consists of two layers of the inner or common membrane. This, however, is denied by Hunter,* who considers them of a tendinous nature, and by Gordon, who made several un- successful attempts to split these two layers.} Valves are not uniformly present in all veins. They are found, Utf, In the following branches of the superior great vein;—the in- ternal jugular, the azygos, the facial veins, those of the arms, &c. 2d, In the following branches of the inferior great vein ; the divi- sions of the posterior iliac, of the femoral, tibial, internal and ex- ternal saphena, and iu the spermatic veins of the male. They are wanting in the trunk of the inferior great vein {cava inferior,) in the renal, mesenteric, and other abdominal veins, in the portal vein, in the cerebral sinuses, in the veins of the brain and spinal chord, in the veins of the heart, of the womb generally and of the ovaries, and perhaps in all other veins less than a line in diameter.} In the cerebral sinuses the transverse chords are supposed to supply their place. In situation the valves vary considerably. In general they are found in those parts of venous canals at which a small vein opens into a larger. But even from this arrangement there are deviations. The only valve which is definite and invariable in its situation is $ Haller, Lib. ii. sect. ii. t Anatomy, pp. 66, 67.