MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS HEMORRHAGE. 1003 in a violent and extreme degree, for which it is impossible to ac- count by capillary exhalation only. Dr William Stark was the first who described accurately the state of the lungs in these instances of haemoptysis. The air vesicles in some parts of the lungs he found filled with blood or bloody se- rum. These parts did not collapse on opening the chest, but were firm, very dark or light-red in colour, and could neither be com- pressed nor distended by the usual inflation. When cut into, thick blood or bloody matter issued from the cut surfaces; and portions of the diseased parts, after being for some time macerated in water, still sank as before maceration. He further showed by blowing air into the blood-vessels and air-tubes of the sound and diseased por- tions respectively, that in the latter, air passed from the branches of the pulmonary artery and veins into the bronchial tubes,—in other words, that the minute arteries and veins or capillary vessels of the lungs communicated freely with the bronchial tubes and air- cells.* This description is extremely accurate, but appears to have been altogether overlooked. Its accuracy has been confirmed by various subsequent observers, and especially by the researches of Laennec. The facts ascertained in this manner show that a considerable change takes place in haemoptysis in the pulmonary substance, or the propel tissue of the lungs. A. portion of the organ becomes uniformly hard, of a dark-red colour, and impermeable to the air. The indurated spot is always partial, from one to four cubic inches in extent, pretty exactly circumscribed, with healthy or pale-coloured lung, and looks not unlike a clot of venous blood; circumstances by which it is to he distinguished from pneumonic induration, which terminates more or less gradually in sound lung. These changes consist in effusion of blood into the parenchyma of the lungs, and into the bronchial tubes ; and as they are analogous to those which take place in the brain in apoplexy, Laennec applies to them the name of pulmonary apoplexy. These are confined chiefly, however, to the severer forms of pulmonary hemorrhaoe. Not even is this description, however, sufficient to explain all the phenomena of pulmonary hemorrhage. The changes of the pul- monic tissue described by Laennec, are rather the effects of a pre- vious morbid state of the capillary circulation of the lungs, than the actual state of the morbid process, which gives rise to effusion of red blood from the bronchial membrane. When the lung is in the * The Works of the late William Stark, M. D., &c. London, 1788, p. 34.