GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 342 divided, as consisting of adipose ash-coloured solid substance, tend- ing in some parts to bony.* Among the many brains which these anatomists examined two only presented this change of structure. Though found near the exterior or convoluted surface, they pene- trated pretty deep into the substance of the organ. According to the cases given by M. Hebreart this change may occur either under the shape of a conversion or degeneration of the cerebral substance into matter of a yellowish colour and lardaceous consistence, or in the formation of a distinct tumour in the sub- stance of the organ. Though from his account it appears to be by no means so rare as might be expected from the observations of the Austrian anatomists, he gives only two cases of its occurrence in the brain, and two in the cerebellum. In the first of the former, a distinct tumour, consisting of matter of a yellow-colour and lard- like consistence, the size of a nut, in the anterior part of the an- terior lobe of the right hemisphere, gave rise to idiocy. In the se- cond, a square inch of the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere was converted into a yellowish pulpy substance, which was separated from the contiguous sound brain by hardened cerebral matter. This in a man of 40 caused epileptic paroxysms once or twice a month, terminating in asphyxia, which at length proved fatal. In the first of the cerehellic cases, in a young man, who had been idiotic for six years, the cerebral substance forming the walls of the fourth ventricle had, for the depth of more than one line, been converted into yellowish lardaceous matter. In the second, that of an incurable maniac, a space six lines in diameter of the lower part of the right hemisphere of the cerebellum had become hard, lardaceous, and of a yellowish colour, not only in the gray lamel- lated matter, but penetrating for some lines into the white sub- stance. In this change the membranes also participated.! A si- milar case is related in the Bulletins dc la Faculte de Medecine, May 1816. I know not whether to these cases should be added the third, * “ Tumor exterius Icevis crat, colore luteo, (couleur jaunatre, of M. Hebreart,)” See. “ Persecantes tumorem, intrinsecus inveniebamus quandam adiposam, (“ une dege- nerescence de consistence lardacee” of M. Hebreart,) subcineream, admodum solidam, (“ substance devenue dure, lardacee, de couleur jaunatre”) substantiam qua: parvo quodam loco tactu velut ossea erat.” Josephus et Carolus Wenzel de Penitiori Struo- tura Cerebri Ilominis et Brutorum. Tubingse apud Cottam, 1812. Fol. p. 104 et 105. q Observations sur quelques maladies du cervelet, du cerveau, et de leurs mem- branes, recueillies a l’hospice de Bicetrc ; par M. Hebreart, Medecin ordinaire des Alien6s, &c. Annuaire Medico-Chirurgical, &c. Paris, 1819, p. 579.