GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 408 Maugre found the muscles of the same region* excepting the ye- melU, which were greatly diminished in size, converted into an adi- pose mass easily divisible by the knife.* Vicq-D’Azyr, in an old subject, saw the psoas and iliacus, the glut am s medias and minimus, the adductors, the deep posterior muscles of the leg, and the plan- tar muscles, completely changed into fibro-cellular fat, without traces of remaining fibre. In the sciatic portion of the semitendi- nosus and biceps, the gemelli, the extensors of the toes, that of the great toe, and the tibialis anticus only, was it possible to recognize fibres with distinct direction. The sartorius presented the gradual transition from muscle to fat, being muscular above and adipose below. The fat into which these muscles were changed is describ- ed as white, firm, contained in numerous minute cells; the uniting cellular tissue whitish, looser, and more separable than usual; and the fat is not deposited between its filaments, but forms part of their substance. Examined by a good glass, it presents a mass of soft transparent fibres of various diameters, in different parts of their length.f Dumas saw the muscles of the fore part of the chest, and those of the posterior region of the shoulder and arm, reduced to an adipose mass, contained in condensed cellular membrane; those of the abdomen and the triceps adductor much changed; and the glutaeus maximus and first adductor half changed into fatty matter.]; Emmanuel, in the person of a woman of 38, dead of child- bed fever, found the abdominal muscles entirely changed into fat.§ Lastly, this transformation was seen by Laennec and Adams in the human heart. The changed portions assumed a pale-yellow colour, which is most distinct externally, and approaches to the na- tural tint as it proceeds inwards, at which the muscular fibres are less changed. According to an analysis by Cruveilhier, it consists of solid adipocerous fat, oily fluid, (elaine), and a little gelatine. 5. Elongation and shortening of muscular fibres are mentioned among morbid changes. 6. Rupture or laceration.—Of this occurrence in muscular or- gans, the most important example is that of rupture of the muscular substance of the heart. Instances of this have been collected by * Ilapport sur une Observation, &c. Journal General de Medecine, Tome XXII. p. 6. t Journal General de Medicine, Tome XXVI. p. 11. + Ibid. Tome XXIII. p. 61. § Ibid. Vol. XXIV. p. 4. * 3