GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 632 the lower end of the ileum, and from them spreading to the adjoining mucous membrane. I had an opportunity of observing the pro- gress of the disease for more than two years, during which the case was more or less under my care; and during that period it was possible to recognise occasional attacks of inflammation. The other symptoms were occasional pain of the belly, never severe, unless at the period of the above attacks, and diarrhoea alternating with con- stipation, afterwards incessant and uncontrollable diarrhoea, wast- ing, and hectic fever;—in short, all the symptoms imputed to me- senteric decline; (tabes mesenterica.) This process, therefore, or chronic inflammation of the intestinal mucous follicles and mem- brane, with or without ulceration, I regard as one of the patholo- gical causes of mesenteric tabes. The enlargement of the glands, in which this disorder has been very generally believed since the time of Wharton, JBaglivi, and Richard Russell to consist, is mere- ly secondary, and is a consecutive effect of the irritation exercised at the organic extremities of the lymphatics and lacteals. This view of the relation between enlarged mesenteric glands and in- testinal inflammation, though already stated by Broussais, has not, however, been established by that author on authentic proofs. En- largement of these glands is indeed, I have elsewhere said, a com- mon effect of irritation at the organic extremities of their lympha- tics. § 6. Typhlitis, Perityphlitis.—The caecum or blind bowel (typlilon enteron) is often the seat of a peculiar disease, which, from slow and almost imperceptible commencements, produces so much havoc as to terminate the life of the individual. This disease consists in inflammation and suppuration of the cel- lular tissue connecting the caecum to the quadratus lumborum and other parts, or in inflammation and ulceration of the mucous mem- brane of the caecum, and often of the vermiform process, and which, advancing by very gradual and insidious steps, destroys the mu- cous membrane, affects the submucous cellular tissue and perito- neal coat, and either causes inflammation of the latter with adhe- sion to the muscular parietes of the abdomen, or perforation and fatal peritonitis. The exact mode in which this disease commences is not always perfectly known. But from the dissection of those who have perished by it, we may infer that the following descrip- tion makes a near approach to the facts. At first the glands or follicles of the caecum become enlarged