643 COLIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE—DYSENTERY. valvular folds also were destroyed, and the cellular anangenient of the bowel could no longer be recognized. It is not unimportant to know that these ulcers of the intestinal mucous membrane may, under certain circumstances, undergo a process of reparation. The steps of this process, which was origi- nally observed by Dr Donald Monro, have been well described by Petit and Serres in their account of the entero-mesenteric disease of Paris, and by Dr Latham in that of the epidemic of Millbank Penitentiary. From the observations of these authors it results, that the first step towards repair consists in the loose margin of ul- cerated mucous membrane becoming fastened down to the muscu- lar layer or the peritoneal coat respectively, by deposition of lymph all round. This lymphy deposition forms an elevated prominent ring, inclosing a depressed space corresponding to the centre of the sore, and which about the same time acquires a reticular appearance from intersecting filaments of lymph, among which may be seen minute red vessels. As the process advances, these filaments, by acquiring solidity and strength, seem to draw the mucous membrane forming the edges to the centre of the ulcer, while the elevated ring becomes flattened. At length, the lymphy deposition being covered by a thin pellicle newly formed completes the cicatrix. When the ulcerated spots are examined in this state, the ragged edges of mucous membrane are found to be mutually approximated; and the peritonaeum at the same time to be puckered or drawn to- gether, appearing as if a small portion of the intestine had been taken by the forceps and tied by a ligature. This shows that the process of repair consists not in the mucous corion being reproduced, but in the opposite margins of its breach making as it were an effort to approach by means of the lymphy exudation from the peritonaeum, which was thus necessarily contracted. § 8. Pustulo-tubercular eminences. Probable Tubercular depo- sit in the isolated Follicles.—I am not aware that the circum- stances on which the formation of hard pustules or tubercles of the colic mucous membrane depends, have been investigated or determined. Is this membrane liable to a peculiar pustular or pustulo-tubercular inflammation ? That they do not occur in all forms of colic inflammation is proved by the fact, that they were not seen in the camp dysentery of 1743, and but rarely in the tro- pical dysentery of the east, while they were observed in every case of the London dysentery. Dr John Hunter, who saw them in all