ERECTILE TISSUE. 181 these purulent collections cause almost no uneasy feelings, till by their size they induce distension or painful stretching of the organ, or pressure or tension of some of the surrounding parts. In such circumstances, it is chiefly by negative signs that the practitioner can infer the existence of disease, in the shape oi in- flammation or abscess of the spleen; and, if he meets with a case in which the patient pines away, without cough, expectoration, ca- vernous respiration in the chest, or the signs of empyema in the side, or indications of enlarged liver, or ulceration ol the intestinal mucous membrane, he may then infer the probable existence of suppurative or other disorder of the spleen. This disease is rare, and therefore not well known ; but the prac- titioner must not expect, like Pemberton, never to meet with it. Abscess of the spleen is sometimes found to be the only morbid appearance in sundry cases of long ill health, with wasting and hectic fever. 3. It is not perfectly ascertained whether the form of simple enlargement of the spleen, or the enlargement with induration ever proceeds to suppuration, or whether suppuration and abscess of the spleen is in certain circumstances the result of one peculiar form of inflammation. From the testimony of Grottanelli suppu- ration of the spleen seems a lesion not unfrequent in Tuscany and other aguish districts in Italy. * M. Raikem of Volterra records in a young book-keeper of 21, a case of splenitis ending in an exten- sive collection of fetid purulent matter, in which, from the pro- gress of the symptoms, there is reason to believe that the organ had been affected at first with simple enlargement from vascular dis- tension. The whole duration of the disease appears to have been rather more than three months; the acute symptoms for which the patient was under the care of M. Raikem, two months; and the tumour of the left hypochondre, which was at first hard and re- sisting, and extended to the linea alba and navel, became about the sixth week soft, increasing in size, and afterwards diminishing remarkably. Inspection of the body disclosed the following facts. The left pleura contained more than two pounds of citron-yellow serous fluid, with albuminous flakes floating in it. The pleura of that side was covered by a thin coating of concrete puriform matter, and was * Ad A cube et Chronic® Splenitidis in humilibus prresertim Itali® locis conside- ratffi eidemque suecedentium Morborum Historias Animadversiones. Auctore Stanis- lao Grottanelli, Philosoph, Mod, ct Chir. Doctore. Florenti®, 1821. 8vo.