ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. 855 ulcerating a passage out of the gall-bladder into the intestines, si- milar adhesions had been previously formed between the peritoneal coat of that organ and the peritoneal covering of the bowels. Si- milar inflammation and adhesion take place in India in consequence of disease of the colon and caecum. 3. Inflammation of the hepatic ■peritoneum of the inferior surface of the livei may arise either spontaneously, or from some cause of irritation in that region, as biliary calculi sticking in the gall-ducts, or inflammation of the duodenum ox jejunum, spreading to the cap- sule of Glisson. In all these cases the same effects are produced. The membrane becomes injected, vascular, and rough, and after- wards effuses albuminous exudation, which unites the contiguous organs by adhesion. In all the cases now mentioned, hepatic peritonitis arises from some morbific cause applied to or seated in the membrane. But it may be also the result of another cause seated in the hepatic sub- stance. When the substance of the liver is inflamed, whether it proceed to suppuration or not, it is a very common consequence for he peritoneal covering over the inflamed or suppurating portion to become red, injected, and at length covered on its free surface with albuminous exudation, which more or less quickly unites themem- brane with the organs to which it is applied. It may hence be said that though hepatic peritonitis may often take place without inflam- 'vitiZth fTtlC fbstaUCe> the Jatter is al™*t never inflamed flammati^n g f° ^ °r accomPanied by hepatic peritoneal in- § 2. Scar-like Marks on the surface of the Liver — In examining dead bodies, it is not uncommon to observe on the surface of the liver marks like the remains of scars or cicatrices ItunTofT r 7 marl!s.s';ems drawn or depressed into the substance of the liver at one point; and, radiating from this point ' '"eS gradua% lost in the sPace of about from half an inch to e ^ 1 ° T inCh' At peritoneum adheres gethe^of all the pa^ " 0fte" °f' of Scr'pSzrss in“°n —iatrxari § 3. Cartilage-like Patoui.'a rn i found covered with patches of'rJl l,e.?atl01’entoneum is often I uuics oi cartilage-like matter. The con-