cerebral serous membrane—meningeal haemorrhage. 731 the life of a fellow-creature. In general, therefore, it is to be un- derstood that when blood is effused between the pia mater and con- voluted surface of the brain, or within the ventricles it proceeds from the membranes, and is most likely to be the result of external violence. When, on the other hand, the effusion is found within the substance of the brain, in fissures or lacerations, it is the result 0^ (llSGcLSG. * In the hemorrhage of the brains of new-born infants, the blood is also situate between the pia mater and brain. To this subject, however, I need not recur. Hemorrhage from the free surface of the arachnoid mem- brane is more common. It may take place either from that which lines the dura mater, and covers the pia mater, when it is found between these two membranes ; or from the arachnoid of the choroid plexus, when it is found in the ventricles. Of the former, a good instance is given by Haslam, who found this the cause of sudden death in the person of a maniac. The same change was found by Bayle in about £th of the cases of persons cut off by symptoms of chronic meningitis. The cases of Drs Hunter and Barlow are already mentioned. Effusion from the interior or central arachnoid is more frequent; and cases may be found in the writings of most collectors. Of this nature are the following. The case of the chamberlain of the mo- nastery of Rheinau, near Schaffliausen, recorded by Wepfer ;* several described by Morgagni, e. g. the case of Cardinal Sanvitali; and those in the 13th, 15th, 17th, 19th, and 22d sections of his second epistle; the cases of Antonio lita, Pietro Facciolati, and the Danish ambassador in his third epistle, and one or two in the sixtieth ; the case related by Yeratti in the Bologna Memoirs ;f the case by De Haen, called rupture of the choroid plexusthe 48th of Rochoux ;§ the 4th, 8th, and 12th cases of Cheyne ;|| one or two cases by Merat ;*f and the 20th and 21st cases of Serres.** In all these cases, blood or bloody fluid was found in the ven- tricles ; and since it was not connected, as in the ordinary instances of this with rupture or injury of the cerebral substance, and conse- quently had not penetrated, as I have formerly shown, from the substance of the hemispheres, it is inferred that it must have issued * Historia Apoplecticorum. -f Comment. Bonon. Tom. ii. Chap. i. + Rat. Med. Pars iv. cap. v. p. 189. § Recherehes sur l’Apoplexie. II Cases of Apoplexy and Lethargy. Lond. 1812. H Memoires de la Societe Medicale d’Emulation, Tome vii. p. 61. ** Annuaire Medico-Chirurgicale, Ac.