MORBID STATES OF THE HEART—PARTIAL ANEURISM. 1055 cular walls at that part are rendered extremely thin. These cavities, which contain blood in the shape of adherent clots, are formed by a gradual separation of the muscular fibres and some degree of dila- tation ; but no laceration or breach of continuity is in general to be perceived. ° It is different with partial aneurism. The muscular fibres un- dergo an interruption or solution of continuity in the transverse direction quite perceptible; and by their retraction and separation, a cavity or pouch, variable in size and shape, but generally round or ovoidal, is formed in the walls of the heart. In some instances the fibres are completely destroyed, and the outer wall of the pouch is 01 me y t ie pericardium alone. This appears to have taken place m a case by M. Dance, and in the case of the actor Talma. ie interior of these pouches or cavities in the walls of the heart may be filled with coagulated blood, adherent to the walls, and in SarteriesSta?CeS’ ^ °f *”"*"*> aS in ane™sm of ZlZ w/ju® )nstances they are emP<y> or contain only a pouch °r bl°°d plasma adherinS t0 the walls of the JakGS plaCG " the anterior lateral terior and leffVI T f VentHcle’ °r Dear the apex in the an- left side. In ten cases among seventeen well-marked in- stances of the disease collected by myself, the tumour was situate near or formed in the apex. In a few cas’es it is found in tlTsZ tam cordis. In one case which was under my own care the noufh or sac was formed in the base of the septum ;* and it formed a large round prominence in the right ventricle. In an instance g.ven by Dr Pereira, the cavity was formed in the substance of the septum, and consisted of four subordinate pouches, one of which instances^ To t if* 2* Thuraa“ ™"«o»s three case g,ven by Zannini, the origia „f the aneJLal ZLTZ the HirTZd cr^DbLtbu”‘rMaFai” c— a„t lit. p. 356. MntargMBM W Vol. f Case of Partial Aneurism of the Left Ventwnio n. Tr reira. Medical Gazette, October 1845 and Fdinb 1 M By Jonathan Pc- Ixvi. P. 503. Edinburgh, 1846. Ed^burgh Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. t On Aneurisms of the Heart, with Cases l!v t„i. • nt, g‘ca! Transactions, v°l. xxi. p. 187 London. 1838 h° lhurnam- Medico-Chirur- § Trafte Clinique des Maladies du Cccur P-,,. t n n i « ■ Edition. Tome i. p. 594. Paris, 1841. ' ' * 011)1 aud* Pa™, 1835. 2ieme