MORBID STATES OF THE HEART—HETEROLOGOUS GROWTHS. 1065 completed, and the orifice is closed. This growth, however, may be interrupted at any stage of its progress, early or late; and the in- terruption is most likely to take place, when the orifice of the pul- monary artery is small and more or less obstructed. If the inter- ruption take place early, the septum is very imperfect, perhaps per- forated in the middle. If it take place late, it is still imperfect, though less so, and is deficient only at the base of the heart, so as to allow blood easily to enter the aorta. Hence it results that the septum is imperfect or perforated, and that often with that is ne- cessarily conjoined either the aorta communicating with the right ventricle, that is, its orifice corresponding with an aperture in the septum, or arising from that chamber and the left at once. The rare example of the heart consisting of only one auricle and one ventricle is merely the extreme degree of this form of arrest of development. The case of the pulmonary artery arising from the left ventricle, while the aorta issues from the right, takes place in a different manner. A degree of mal-apposition in the vessels and the ven- tricle must have taken place at an early period of foetal existence, ilns we know takes place with other organs, with bones for instance and with certain portions of the abdominal and thoracic viscera ’ All these lesions now mentioned are in different degrees incom- patible with the continuance of life. Their incompatibility is very neai y in the order in which they are arranged. But to this must be added that their incompatibility and fatality are regulated, to a certain extent, by the degree in which the orifice of the pulmonary artery is contracted and obstructed. If the contraction be not very great life may be continued for years; and the individual though feeble and ev.dently imperfectly nourished, may attain the adult age or beyond that. If the contraction be -X and s„ considerable that the blood does not readily enter the orifice of the attuy though he attain the age of puberty, life is rarely onged beyond that period. Kyanom is considerable and Li lost constant. If the aperture be still smaller, the individual diesTn in fancy, or may be cut off a few days after birth. And when the artery is entirely obstructed, death takes place shortly after bU § 1 . Heterologous Gno,VTns._The heart is observed to be in- ol ed .„ enKcphaloma when that structure appears in the lungs and n the liver; and it ,s also affected by the melanotic deposit I„ the first case the cnkephaloid matter forms a species of investing mss encroaching on the whole substance of the heart. In f lit