901 FATTY DEGENERATION OF THE LIVER. and something doughy, or compressible-inelastic to feeling; less solid and dense than the natural liver. When divided, the sec- tions are yellowish red, or with the tint of the hit of old oxen mixed with the red colour of the liver. In advanced stages, the colour is still more highly yellow, approaching to gold yellow. The substance is soft, doughy, and. sometimes lacerable. These sections leave on the knife a distinct dirty, greasy mark ; and even paper applied over the cut surface receives an oily stain, while fresh particles of dirty grease ooze from the surface. This fatty matter is deposited or infiltrated partly within the acini and granules, partly at their exterior ; while the acini in the advanced stage of the disease, though present, are compressed. Under the microscope, a bit of yellow or orange-coloured fatty liver appears, according to Albers, like a pale-white sponge, which contains individual bladders of clearer colour with viscid fluid, and there are dispersed in various points remote from each other indi- vidual dark-brown punctula. These he regards as the atrophied acini of the liver. In the portions of the liver retaining their red- dish-shaded colour, these acini are large, and more in the normal state, while the morbid intermediate tissue is neither so yellow nor so abundant. From this circumstance he infers that the inter- mediate or cellular tissue is over-nourished and enlarged, or hypertrophied; and that by this hypertrophy of the cellular tissue the acini are atrophied. The fatty state of the liver is said to be commonly confined to that gland alone; while all the other parts of the system are atro- phied. It is observed most usually in pulmonary consumption ; and has been by some supposed to denote the most advanced stao-e of this disease. This inference must nevertheless he regarded as erroneous; since, on the one hand, in many cases of advanced consumption, it is not observed; and, on the other, the adipescent liver is observed in persons who have not died of consumption. Analysis shows that the adipescent liver contains matter which is something a little different from pure animal fat. Andral found that it was almost entirely cholesterine; and, according to Vau- quelin, in 100 parts, 45 consist of oil, 19 of parenchyma, and 36 of water. The size and weight which the adipescent liver may acquire va- nes from five to eight or nine pounds. In one remarkable case, in which I recognized the disease during life in a young female la-