621 INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. cor curded by Morgagni in his own person and others “entl°netl™ his 31 st epistle, in the Reports of Ludovic Bang for 118- and / 7, may be found distinct traces of the opinion that intestinal inflam- mation gives rise to diarrhoea.* Much about the same time, (1798,) Carmichael Smyth conjectured, “ that in diarrhoeas, from catching cold, the villous or interior coat of the stomach and intestines is sometimes slightly inflamed.’! This conjecture was afterwards confirmed by the researches ol Baillie,J Pinel,§ Hildenbiand,|| Broussais,1T Petit and Serres,** Abercrombie, Andral, Latham,ft and lastly Billard. The proofs collected by these authors it is un- necessary to examine minutely. They establish indisputably the inference, that the red or rose tint ol mere injection of the mucous membrane is adequate to produce all the symptoms of diarrhoea passing into dysentery. The state of the intestinal membrane, as discovered by necroscopy, may vary according to the extent of the disease, the kind of the inflammatory process, and the parts of the intestinal membrane affected. Inflammation of the intestinal mucous membrane, to be rightly understood, should be studied both in the villous membrane proper, (Enteria; Enteritis mucosa ;) and in the intestinal follicles, iso- lated and agminated ; (Adenitis; Adeno-enteria.) a. In the villous membrane proper, the process is known by red- ness and vascularity, increased secretion of viscid jelly-like mucus, which is often very adherent, and sometimes tinged with blood, sometimes with a proportion of albumen, so as to form false mem- brane, and generally some thickening and roughening of the mem- brane. This is commonly a diffuse or spreading form of inflam- mation, and in characters acute. b. Adenitisi Adeno-enteria. Follicular inflammation. Dothinenteri- tis.—The intestinal follicles are subject to at least two forms of in- * Selecta Diarii Nosocomii Regii Hafniensis, Auctore Freclerico Ludovica Bang. Vol. i. p. 47, Vol. ii. and 233, 314, 360, 361. t Medical Communications, Vol. ii. p. 210. + “ It does not always happen,” says Baillie, “ when a person has died from fatal purging, that there are ulcers in the intestines. In two cases which I have opened of persons who died from this complaint, the small intestines were inflamed, so as to pre- sent the appearance of distinct vessels, the small branches of arteries curling most beautifully at the outer surface of the intestine filled with florid blood, and the villous coat being slightly red."—Dissections, &c. p. 218. § Medecine Clinique et Nosographie Philosophique, Tom. ii. II Ratio Medendi in Instit. Clinico. If Phlegmasies Chroniques. ** Traite de la Fievre Entero-Mesenterique. 8vo. Paris, 1813. ft An Account of the Disease lately prevalent at the General Penitentiary. By P. M. Latham, M. D. &c. Lond. 182S.