GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY* 680 between the peritonmal coat and muscular layer. In size they vary from that of a pea to masses of several pounds; and in shape, though generally spheroidal, they are sometimes irregular. They cause a copious mucous discharge and much local irritation,'but without much affecting the constitution. The cauliflower excrescence was also first accurately described by Dr John Clarke; * and his description has been since verified by his brother Sir C. Mansfield Clarke. From the observations of these authors, it results that the cauliflower excrescence arises al- ways from some part of the os uteri. When first recognised, it forms an irregular prominence, with a broad base and a granulated surface. As the tumour increases in size, the granulated structure of its surface becomes more distinct, and begins to be parted into numerous elongated granules, which give it the appearance of a cauliflower when it begins to run to seed. In most instances these granules are friable and brittle, and break off, if rudely handled, in the form of minute white fragments; and indeed such fragments are occasionally or periodically discharged with the urine and other fluids. Its surface, which is of a bright flesh colour, is covered by a thin delicate membrane, from which oozes abundantly a sero-al- buminous fluid, which mats the linen like starch, and occasionally blood flows copiously. In married women who have had children its growth is rapid; in those not exposed to sexual intercourse it is slow. The attempts made to inject this growth have been un- successful. The injection escapes from its surface rapidly; and it shrinks so much after death, that it is impossible to recognize any- thing but a small loose flocculent membranous prolongation of the part to which it is attached. These circumstances, with its hemor- rhagic character, lead Sir C. Clarke to regard it as an assemblage of minute arteries similar to the placental structure. It is probably a morbid variety of erectile tissue.f VII. Displacements.—The mucous membranes, partly in con- sequence of their loose connection in many instances with subjacent tissues, partly in consequence of inordinate action in the muscular fibres of their proper organs, sometimes in consequence of inflam- mation, are liable to various unnatural changes of situation. Thus the eyelids are liable to eversion, the rectum, the vagina, and the * Transactions of a Society, Vol. iii. p. 298. f Observations on those Diseases of Females, &c. Part ii.