GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 316 bar portion without affection of the posterior, caused palsy of the trunk and lower extremities without impairing sensation. 9. State of the Brain in Fever. A singular state of the brain is observed in fever, whether typhus or ordinary synochus, which usu- ally ends in typhus. The whole of the convoluted portion of the brain, and the laminated portion of the cerebellum, indeed the whole gray matter of the organ acquires a peculiar deep colour, as if the gray matter had been tinged of a reddish-brown, or slight pink- colour. The white matter is also redder than usual, and presents when divided numerous dark-red points effusing semifluid dark- coloured blood. The white matter of the crura of the brain, of the protuberance, and the bulb of the spinal marrow (medulla ob- longata), acquires a peculiar pink-colour, totally different from that observed in death by other diseases, and similar only to the state of the brain in persons destroyed by acute or chronic asphyxia. The membranes are generally loaded with serous fluid, which is also found in the cerebral substance and within the ventricle. Brains in this state are not easily preserved. They are soft, and lacerable, and generally undergo decomposition early and speedily. This state is manifestly the result of the brain being supplied only with dark-coloured or non-oxygenated blood. With this its arteries are filled during life and after death. The organ is indeed poisoned with unrespired blood, much as if the individual had breathed carbonic oxide gas. These appearances, which depend on the quality, not the amount of blood, in the cerebral vessels, have been ascribed to turgescence, to inflammation, to venous con- gestion, and everything but the true cause, which is the state of the lungs and blood, already noticed in Chapter VII. Section II. p. 164. Unarterialized blood is sent to the brain, and by poisoning sus- pends and annihilates its functions. Death is in such cases pre- ceded by stupor and coma, more or less deep, and on some occasions by fits of convulsions. 10. Malakencephalon. Diminished consistence of the brain. -The change above described in the consistence of the brain is always accompanied with more or less destruction of its texture. Under certain circumstances, nevertheless, its consistence may be dimi- nished without change of texture. The natural consistence of the recent adult brain, though well known, it is difficult to describe in exact terms. In general it pos- sesses a degree of toughness which prevents it from being easily