GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 1034 have previously suffered from cough, breathlessness, expectoration, and wasting, there are found in the upper lobe of the lungs, irre- gular cavities lined by a semicartilaginous membrane, similar to that formerly described, but firmer and smoother, containing particles of whitish chalky-like matter, or even putty-like matter adhering. In other instances, cavities irregular in shape, but marked by septa or partitions, are found lined by a firm smooth false membrane, empty, that is containing only air; while in the same lung may be found tubercular masses partially or wholly softened, and in some instances, crude tubercular masses. At the near extremity of such cavities the bronchial tubes, which are truncated, are in general also dilated or enlarged in diameter; while those at the further extremity are shrunk and contracted, or altogether impermeable. These cavities also themselves show a tendency to contraction by the lung, and even the thoracic parietes pressing them mutually together. When this contraction or shrinking of the cavities takes place, the extremities of the nearer bronchial tubes also are contracted, from participating in the cen- tripetal pressure; and, in some instances, they are impermeable and obliterated. This lesion has been well represented by Rey- naud in his fourth plate, fig. 1, who has detailed several cases, showing the frequency of obliteration of the tubes, in cases both of fatal phthisis, and in those in which partial recovery appeared to take place. Lastly, In some instances in the apex of the lungs are found simply masses, fibrous and cellulo-fibrous, with firm cartilaginous intersections without cavity, and without permeable bronchial tubes. From these several facts it is inferred, l.s'A that the cavities now mentioned are tubercular cavities emptied and partially or wholly cicatrized; and 2d, that the solid firm portions are cavities in which great or complete contraction had taken place. § 11. Kirrhosis.—This name Dr Corrigan applies to the following condition of the lung. The substance of the lung is firm and solid to touch, and void of crepitation ; it is of grayish-red colour and tough ; when divided, it is traversed, in all directions, by thick white bands of fibro-cellular tissue. The bronchial tubes, instead of growing smaller in diameter as they proceed to their terminations, increase in size and capacity, until they terminate in oval or round- ed cavities, in some of which are seen crowded together the open- ing of the small bronchia, giving them an appearance similar to that of the bronchia of the tortoise. The lining membrane of the