888 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. vations may not extend over the whole liver, hut occupy at first only one part, viz. generally the convex surface. When the peri- toneum is stripped, which is always difficult to be done, it is ob- served that the elevations are the prominent parts of roundish or irregular-shaped bodies about the size of tares or small peas, and some as large as peas. The colour of these bodies is orange-brown or wood-brown, sometimes a shade lighter than the colour of the sound liver. A section of such presents an aggregation of bodies varying in size, affecting a roundish irregular outline, united or separated by whitish fibrous or filamentous lines. The liver in these parts is decidedly firmer and harder than in the last describ- ed case. Other parts of the liver are firm, doughy, and generally of the orange-yellow' or orange-brown tint. The liver in this state may not be larger than usual, and if it be, it is only in a slight degree larger. Sections of this sort of liver, when macerated in water repeatedly changed, continue long to impart a green colour to the liquid. In the most complete form of the disease the appearance of the liver is the following. The liver is seldom larger than natural. It either retains its normal size, or it is smaller, and apparently shrunk and contracted. The whole surface of the liver presents the appearance of numerous irregularly round bodies, elevated so as to give the organ an irregular tuberculated or knotty look. These eminences are as large as peas or small beans, a few larger. Their colour externally is of that light brown usually designated wood- brown. They are separated by well-marked linear furrows, which seem all continuous, so that the surface of the liver presents a re- semblance to a shoe covered with hobnails. This appearance ex- tends over the whole surface of the liver ; but in general it is most distinct and conspicuous on the convex surface. The shape of the liver is at the same time in general more or less altered. The convex surface is more decidedly convex; the anterior edge is obtuse, thick, and as it were bent downwards; all the sharp edges are rounded or obtuse: and in general, by the bending downwards of the right and left margins, and the anterior margin, the lower surface is more concave than in the natural state. The last character, however, may be wanting ,• and the lower surface either remaining even, though irregularly granulated, or partaking in the general elevation, the whole gland appears thick, but rounded, and contracted apparently towards the sinus of the vessels.