SKIN. 521 let Meanwhile the site of the pit or navel (umbilicus,) which was previously sunk and hollow, not only attains the uniform convexity of the rest of the pustule, which renders it spherical instead of len- ticular, but is raised into a top or apex, which first allows the con- tained matter to escape. This hardening forms a crust which covers the pustule during the subsequent process of drying (persic- catio,) which now commences; when this is completed the crust or scab drops otf, leaving the skin uninjured. This is, according to Cottugni, the natural and most perfect pro- cess of variolous suppuration, from which all others are more or less deviations. Thus the umbilicate pocks may degenerate into the gangrenous, corruptive, crystalline, and warty; the vesicular deviate into the purple-like pox only. The most doubtful point of this account of the variolous inflam- mation, is that which relates to the disease being entirely confined to the mucous body of Malpighi. The existence of this membrane is very doubtful, and if it cannot be demonstrated, the opinion of small-pox being confined to it is obviously inconclusive. If the term outer surface or vascular layer of the corion be substituted for mucous body, the whole description maybe regarded as not far from the truth. The depressed pit or navel of which Cottugni speaks, corresponds with the central slough of John Hunter, to which I shall advert in its proper place. At present, the process of variolous inflamma- tion, if divested of hypothetical language and opinions, may be stat- ed in the following terms. The small-pox eruption consists of circumscribed points of in- flammation developed simultaneously in many spots of the corion. These inflamed spots (phlyctidia), always commence at the cuticu- lar or outer surface, and in general penetrate to a depth which is greater or less in different circumstances. After no long time, each phlyctidium is surrounded with a hard red circle somewhat raised, which may be conceived to indicate the process of cutaneous inflammation. Hunter would say, and perhaps did say, that this inflammation is of the adhesive kind, and arises from lymph effused into that part of the corion which is red, hard, and swelled. I believe it cannot be in every instance shown that this hard swelling depends on effusion of lymph; and it may be doubted whether it arises from such effusion in the case of small-pox. First, hardness and swelling take place at a period of the eruption so early, that it appears unreasonable to ascribe them to effused lymph ; Secondly,