24 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. gen^are discharged by the lungs, and carbon, oxygen, and hydro- gen by the liver, the large superfluous portion of nitrogen not re- quired is left in the form of urea, to pass through the blood, and by means of the kidneys to be expelled from the system. In the healthy state urine is always acid when discharged. It is prone, however, to undergo the putrefactive decomposition; and then its acid reaction disappears, and it becomes alkaline. This change is much favoured if not wholly occasioned by the presence of mucus, purulent matter, or other azotized substances; for if the urine be filtered so as to remove these substances, and placed in a close vessel, secluded from the air, it may be preserved for a long time without undergoing change or presenting any odour indicat- ing the presence of decomposition. Section II. A. The morbid states of the blood are mostly, if not all, connected with morbid states of the system at large, of the organs of respiration, or the organs of secretion. The most important are the following. 1. In diseases of plethora it has been supposed that the blood is more abundant than usual in quantity, and that its fibrine is in- creased in proportion. The first point it is not easy to deter- mine. The fibrine, however, is not increased. The red globules are stated by Andral to be the only element in which an increase actually takes place. In 31 blood-lettings he found for the medium the cypher 141 in 1000, 127 in 1000 being the average of health; for the minimum, 131 ; and for the maximum, 154. There is, in short, in the blood of the plethoric an increased amount of red glo- bules, and a great deal less water than the average. 2. In chlorosis, dyspeptic and other diseases in which the leading character is anaemia, the red globules are diminished in propor- tion. Andral found, as the medium of the cypher for the globules in fifteen cases of incipient anaemia, the number 109, and in twenty- four cases of confirmed anaemia, the number 65. In spontaneous anaemia, mild or violent, the globules alone are diminished; the fibrine and the albumen of the serum preserving their normal pro- portion. In hemorrhagic anaemia, at first the globules only are diminished. But if the morbid condition continue, the fibrine and the albumen of the serum are also diminished. There is a form of anaemia which may be called toxic, as it depends on the influence of the mineral poisons. In that from lead, Andral finds that the