331 BRAIN. This is one mode of accounting for this sort of atrophy; and it is probable that to many examples of the disease it correctly applies. It may be quite true, for instance, of the atrophy taking place in old age and in various enfeebling diseases, in which all the organs suffer more or less waste and loss of substance from imperfect nu- trition ; and in general steatomatous and osteosteatomatous disease of the arteries of the brain. This form of atrophy is nevertheless so frequent in persons who are much addicted to the use of spirituous liquors, to whisky-drinkers, gin-drinkers, and brandy-drinkers, and is so common in those who have either had delirium tremens, or who, after a long course of moderate but steady drinking, have died either of that or some similar affection, that the shrunk convolutions and watery state may be regarded as characteristic of the drunkard’s brain. I do not say that atrophy of the brain does not take place in the temperate. But it is so constantly observed in connection with the habit of incessant drinking, that it may, in a large pro- portion of cases, be considered as the effect of that habit. Local forms of atrophy are also observed. Thus portions of the convoluted surface may be depressed, and yellowish and covered with fluid within the membranes. These are the remains of some former congestion of the part. The surface or substance of one corpus striatum may be depressed and, as it were, abraded; or the surface of one optic thalamus may be less developed than that of the opposite side. These are mostly the effects of some previous attack of capillary congestion, sometimes with effusion of a little blood, or an attack of softening which had stopped spontaneously. This local form of atrophy has been examined by Dr Sims; and it seems quite certain, that these local losses of substance were the effects of previous attacks of disease. Among four cases fully de- tailed, and eleven cases noticed by this author, nine took place in persons above 70 years of age, and in whom they were associated with, or preceded by, attacks of cerebral disease of different kinds ; and two were observed in persons above 60, both with marks of diseased brain. In the other four also, though young persons, very considerable morbid changes of different kinds had taken place in the brain and its membranes.* Lastly, the term atrophy has been employed by Cruveilhier to designate that extensive deficiency of portions of the brain which On Hypertrophy and Atrophy of the Brain. By John Sims. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, London, Vol. XIX. p. 364. London, 1835.