194 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. tal,* and Abernethyf especially, as well as those of Bichat, esta- blish the point as to the stomach and small intestines in licemate- mesis and melcena. In dysentery the blood, however copious it may appear, oozes from a large extent of the surface of the lower end of the ileum, and from that of the colon, without ulceration or gangrene, and evidently from the vessels of the villous membrane, which during health secrete mucous and intestinal fluid. The same is to be understood of hemorrhages from the rectum, indiscrimi- nately known under the name of hcemorrliois and hemorrhoidal dis- charges, and erroneously supposed to proceed, in all cases, from the hemorrhoidal veins. The true source of many of those bloody discharges is the vessels of the villous membrane of the bowel, which is usually observed to be reddened or embrowned, thicken- ed, softened, and covered with blood-coloured mucus. In the exhalants of the genito-urinary mucous system the same condition takes place. Hemorrhage from the kidney, unless caused by calculus, is the result of exhalation. Menstruation, both in the sound state and when excessive, is equally so. (William Hunter apud Cruikshank, J Bichat.) In all these cases of hemorrhage two conditions of the capillary and exhalant system may be remarked. First, In the capillaries an unusual proportion of blood is accumulated, so that the small ones conveying red blood become large and distended, and those conveying the colourless part are injected with red blood. Second- ly, After this state has continued for some time, red blood is ob- served to ooze in minute drops from the surface of the membrane, and progressively to increase in quantity and superficial extent. * Memoires sur la Nature et la Traitement de plusieurs Maladies. Par M. Antoine Portal. Tome II. Paris, 1800, p. 108. + On the Constitutional Origin and Treatment of Local Diseases. By John Aber- nethy. London, 1811. £ “ It happened that a woman died when her menses were flowing. Dr Hunter examined the internal surface of the uterus, found it exceedingly red and loaded with blood ; that the principal redness was from the distended and convoluting arteries. He pressed forward the blood, which was fluid, and which, he asserted, never coagu- lated, and saw it appear on the surface near the extremities of these arteries. As this discharge happened instantly, and from the gentlest pressure of the finger, it could not be transudation, which always requires time ; it could not be rupture of vessel. I have had several opportunities of repeating this experiment, which always succeeded in the same manner.”—The Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels of the Human Body, by William Cruikshank. London, 1786 and 1790, Chapter xi. p. 55; The same fact has been satisfactorily established by observation in cases of prolapsed or retroverted uterus when the blood is seen oozing from the villous surface of the organ. 3