75 ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. be found in the form of brown or ebon-coloured fluid or semifluid, enclosed in a cyst formed of the contiguous tissue more or less condensed. The melanose matter is entirely destitute of organization, and is to be regarded as the result of a peculiar secretion. No vessels have been traced into it; and when bodies affected with this de- posite are minutely injected, the vessels can be traced no farther than the enveloping cyst. (Breschet.) It is also to be noticed that it is never deposited exactly in the site of organic fibres, but always between them, and very generally in the precise situation of the adipose particles. These several circumstances show that the me- lanose disease consists not in a degeneration or conversion into another substance, but in the deposition of a new form of matter in the manner of a secretion. In what form the melanose substance is first deposited we have few accurate facts to enable us to form a judgment. Laennec is of opinion that it is first deposited in a solid form, and afterwards becomes fluid. The former he considers the stage of crudity, the latter that of softening, (ramollissement.) Several facts, however, would lead to the conclusion, that when first deposited it was fluid, and afterwards acquired consistency. Thus, in several dissections performed by Dr Cullen and Mr Carsewell, the matter of the small tumours, which are supposed to be of short duration, were found to be softest, and sometimes as fluid as cream.* In like manner, in a case recorded by M. Chomel, in which the disease was found in the liver in the shape of large cysts, the melanose matter was more fluid in the centre than in the circumference of the cysts, f Upon the whole, if the melanose deposite be, as is supposed, an in- organic secretion, the idea of its being poured forth from the ves- sels at first in a fluid or semifluid state is most probable, and most consistent with the usual phenomena and laws of animal pro- cesses. 8. Acephalo-cysts. This form of hydatid is occasionally found si- tuate beneath the skin, partly in the adipose tissue, partly in the cellular membrane. When present in numbers, they form an ex- tensive superficial tumour over the person, most commonly the back, and in rare cases in the extremities. They present the usual characters of acephalo-cysts in other regions ; that is, they are glo- liansactions of the Medico-Chirurgieal Society of Edinburgh, Vol. I. p. 264. t Nouveau Journal de Medecine, Tome III. p. 41.