GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 882 there was in the liver a cavity as large as a nut, containing blood coagulated in concentric layers. No laceration in any of the blood- vessels was recognized. Instances of this lesion have been given also by Dr Heyfelder and Dr James Abercrombie. In the former case, which took place in a man of 60, the heart was affected with hypertrophy of the right ventricle, and the rent, which was in the right lobe of the liver, communicated with the laceration in the portal vein.* In the latter, which occurred in a lady of 35, who had been several years in India, the liver presented, at its anterior and upper surface, a large sac, containing two pounds of blood. This sac was the peri- toneum. The blood had escaped from a branch of the portal vein. The accident occurred in the eighth month of pregnancy. The liver was softened, lacerable, and pulpy, f The causes of this lesion and its external effects are equally un- known. In those affected with scurvy, the liver, as other organs, is liable to present effusions of blood, which, in this case, undergoes imper- fect coagulation. § 7. Traumatic Laceration and Hepatorriiagia.—In falls from a considerable height, especially on hard ground, and after death by heavy bodies which have passed over the trunk, laceration and hemorrhage of the liver is by no means uncommon. On the 1st of January 1824, three soldiers, in attempting to get out of Edinburgh Castle, mistook their way in the dark, and fell over the perpendicular side of the rock. They were found dead next morn- ing ; and in all the liver was lacerated. Cases of rent either from violence or falls are given by Morgagni and Dr Pearson ;i and instances of the same accident from the transit of a carriage or waggon over the trunk or abdomen are given by various authors. In all these cases, hemorrhage to a greater or less extent takes place ; and as the blood flows into the cavity of the perito- neum, if life be not immediately or speedily extinguished, the quan- tity may be estimated by the degree of swelling which takes place, with the dull sound always emitted on percussion, when blood is contained within the abdominal cavity. * Memoire sur plusieurs Maladies du Foie. Par Dr Heyfelder. Archives Gene- rales, t. li.p. 468. Paris, 1839. -(- London Medical Gazette, September, 1844, Vol. xxxiv. p. 307 and p. <9- n case twice given. ,-or x Transactions of College of Physicians, vol. iii. art. xxiv. p. 37/. London, /