ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 87 Another mode of termination, that, namely, into excreting ducts, admitted by Haller, scarcely requires particular mention. So fai as an artery can be said to terminate in such a manner, it would come under the head of that into exhalant vessels. Many of the proofs mentioned by Haller, however, may be shown to be exam- ples of a morbid state of the mucous membranes of these ducts, in which their capillary vessels are disorganized. In considering the several terminations of arteries, it is not un- important to advert to the distribution of these vessels. Injections show that they penetrate into every texture and organ of the ani- mal body, excepting one or two substances in which they have never yet been traced. But in different textures they ai*e found in different degrees; and they may vary in extent even in the same texture in two different conditions. The parts which receive the largest and most numerous vascular ramifications are the brain and spinal chord, the glandular organs, the muscles, voluntary and in- voluntary, the mucous membranes, and the skin. In the fibrous membranes, and their modifications, tendons, and ligaments, and in the serous membranes few arteries are seen to penetrate; and these are generally minute, sometimes only colourless capillaries. Bones hold in this respect an intermediate position, being well sup- plied with blood-vessels, especially in early life, though to less ex- tent than the muscles, and in greater proportion than the fibrous tissues. In some textures arteries cannot be traced, though their properties indicate that they must receive vessels of some kind. Such are cartilage and the arachnoid membrane. (Ruysch and Haller.) Lastly, arteries are not found in the scarf-skin, in nails, the enamel of the teeth, the hair, nor in the membranes of the um- bilical chord. In early life bones are much more vascular than in adult age; and in the hones of young subjects arteries may be traced going out through the epiphyses into the cartilages, in which they cannot at a later period of life he demonstrated.* . Section II. I ho morbid states of arteries belong either to the inner mem- brane, or to the proper arterial tissue, or to both. 1. Adhesive Inflammation. Arteritis. Acute, limited. The inner membrane is liable to inflammation, terminating generally in effusion of lymph, adhesion of the sides, and obliteration of the Hunter in Philosophical Transactions, No. 170.