532 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Hie structure of the small bodies is that of numerous cells se- creting the milky fluid, which under the microscope is entirely com- posed of nucleated cells oblong or ovoidal in shape. These are about one-thousandth part of one inch in diameter.* From the position which the tubercles of contagious molluscum occupy in the face, it seems certain that they are seated in the fol- licles. They are generally found round the lips, or on the chin, near the nose, and in those situations in which the follicles are mostly placed. h. The chronic soft tubercle (molluscum diuturnum), is a rare disease; and I have seen only one example of it in the person of a man of 40, in whom these bodies were disseminated over the cu- taneous surface of the face and scalp, the trunk, the upper extre- mities, the nates and thighs. Of two of the larger tumours which were removed from the palpebrce, the greater part was composed of firm, tough, whitish gray matter of the consistence of condensed cellular texture, penetrated through its whole extent by numerous minute blood-vessels, but exhibiting in no other respect traces of or- ganization. This substance, when macerated in water, was resolved into gelatinous, flocculent filaments, easily lacerable, and present- ing no definite structure. Imbedded in this, and removable most easily by maceration, were several small bodies not larger than a pin-head like fat in appearance, of a regularly spheroidal shape, of a lemon-yellow colour, and specifically lighter than water. The matter of these bodies was unctuous. It communicated an oily stain to paper ; it liquefied and became transparent at a temperature not exceeding 97° Fahrenheit, so that, when attached to the body, it must have been fluid; it was insoluble in alcohol, ether, and water, but formed in the volatile oil of turpentine a colourless solution. When this was exposed to the temperature of the spirit-lamp, the greatest part of the volatile oil was evaporated, leaving a transpa- rent, colourless, but viscid and semifluid substance, communicating to paper a stain becoming less deep, but not wholly removable by exposure to a high temperature. These results favour the idea that the matter of these bodies is oleaginous; but I was unable to observe any action of aqua potassce or aqua ammonia:, after repeated * Cases and Observations on the Molluscum Contagiosum of Bateman, with an Ac- count of the Minute Structure of the Tumours. By Robert Paterson, M. D. Edin- burgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. LVI. p. 279. Edinburgh, 1841. ■J- Du Molluscum Recherches Critiques sur les formes, la nature, et le traitement des Affections Cutanees de cc nom. Par Maximilian-Maurice Jacobovics, Docteur Me- decin de la Faculte de Pesth. Paris, 1840, 8vo.