GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 70 by disease, or accident, or in consequence of operation, a result al- most inevitable is death of these tunics, chiefly in consequence of the destruction, which the nutrient vessels, the vasa vasorum, ne- cessarily sustain by the inflammation of the adipose sheath, by which these vessels are supported. That this has not been more frequently observed in cases of spontaneous inflammation of the adipose cushion, is to be ascribed to the fact, that the disease in general proves fatal by the severity of the constitutional disorder, or by the induction of inflammation of the veins, passing from their exter- nal to their internal coat. It is proper to remark, that in an abstract of the case of inflame mation of the periangial adipose tissue above referred to, in the Archives Generales, (iii. New Series, Dec. 1837,) M. Godin, the author of that notice, has attempted to oppose the view that the disease consists in inflammation of the adipose membrane, by re- presenting it to be diffuse phlegmon. I have only to remark, that this is a contradiction in terms, which, instead of conveying a cor- rect view of the disease, tends to confuse still more than formerly. The view given by me rests on the accuracy of the anatomical observations; and unless these are shown to be erroneous, I see no mode of denying the fact, that in most of the cases of diffuse , inflammation the adipose membrane is the chief seat of the dis- ease. 2. Hemorrhage. Effusion of blood into the adipose tissue is not very common. It is observed in the same circumstances nearly in which it occurs in the filamentous tissue. Thus it has been seen in land and sea scurvy. Huxham observed it in fevers with petechial eruptions. And Cleghorn states that one of the ap- pearances after death in the continuous and malignant tertians of Minorca was extravasation of blood in the form of black patches in the adipose layer of the mesentery, omentum, and colon. 3. Excessive Deposition. In certain subjects, and in peculiar circumstances, the quantity deposited is enormous. The average weight of the human subject at a medium size is about 160 pounds, or between eleven and twelve stones. Yet instances are on record of its attaining by deposition of fat in the adipose membrane the .extraordinary weight of 510, and 600 pounds, or from thirty-five to forty stones. Cheyne mentions a case in which the weight was 448 pounds, equal to thirty-two stones. In the Philosophical Transactions are recorded two cases of persons so corpulent, that 4