GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 8 classify the several animal substances of which the human body consists, and to describe, in general terms, their obvious and dis- tinctive characters and properties. M. Pinel, in his Nosographie Pliilosopliique, first published in 1798, made the distinctions of the membranes and other animal tissues the foundation of his arrange- ment and pathology. Soon after Xavier Bichat, (1800), in his Treatise on the Mem- branes, gave a neat and comprehensive view of the general structure of these tissues, and of their connection with the vital and morbid processes carried on at their respective surfaces. This, however, was merely the introduction to a work still more extensive and ela- borate. In his Treatise on the Membranes he confined himself to the examination of the structure and properties of the mucous, se- rous, and fibrous membranes, and a short view of the fibro-mucous and fibro-serous tissues. In his General Anatomy, which appear- ed in 1801, he delineated the first, and perhaps the most perfect arrangement of the different organic textures of the human body that has yet appeared. This author considers the human body as an assemblage of many different organs (1801), each of which consists of a greater or smaller number of animal substances, which, though thus combined in the formation, or entering into the composition of the same part or or- gan, are very different in structure and properties from each other. Each of these distinct forms of animal matter he calls a tissue or texture, (textus, tela ;) and he refers the whole of those which ana- tomists have enumerated, or which accurate discrimination can dis- tinguish in the human body, to twenty-one general heads. . O 3-S T* w .g -•§ Subcutaneous, connecting the skin to the subjacent parts. Subserous, connecting the serous or transparent membranes to the contiguous parts. Submucous, connecting the mucous membranes to the subjacent parts. Arterial, surrounding and enclosing arteries. Venous, ... ... veins. Excretory, ... ... excretory ducts. Enveloping, surrounding and enclosing organs. Penetrating, entering into the substance of organs. „ , _ I a Animal life. 2 and 3. Nervous, j j 0rgiUlic life. 4. Arterial. 5. Venous. 6. Exhalant. I Absorbent vessels. | Absorbent glands, i Bones proper, long, flat, and short, i Teeth. Marrow of short and flat bones, or the ends of long bones. 9. Medullary. • jyjarrow 0f the shafts, or bodies of long bones. 7. Absorbent, 8. Osseous.