GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 556 ample of Bichat in trusting to analogy to prove their existence; for they are not necessary to the secretion of mucous fluid, as he seems to imagine. Those in the urethra, first well described by William Cowper, are distinct examples of follicles in the genito-urinary sur- face.* The sinuosities (lacunae), first accurately described, if not discovered by Morgagni,f though not exactly the same in confor- mation and structure, seem to be very slightly different. The importance of the muciparous follicles in influencing both the functions and the morbid states of the alimentary mucous mem- brane, renders it necessary to consider with some detail the situa- tion, structure, and anatomical peculiarities of these bodies. These do not occur at all parts of the alimentary mucous mem- brane ; but are distributed in different modes in different regions of the membrane. In the oesophagus they are not numerous, but are observed like small bodies about the size of flattened pin-heads in various parts of the membrane, and at irregular intervals from each other. With a good glass may be recognized a minute aperture or pore, which proceeds from the centre of the gland and acts as a sort of excreting duct. At the cardia these bodies become more numerous and are more closely set, so that they form a sort of ring round the cardiac orifice. In the stomach they are rather numerous along the course of the small arch. But they are observed at uncertain intervals in various other regions of the stomach. At the pylorus also they are abundant, and in that region also they may be more easily re- cognized than in any other part of the organ. The duodenum is rather peculiar as to its glandular apparatus. The whole duodenal mucous membrane is provided with numerous minute glandular bodies, which are more closely set than in any other part of the alimentary canal, and give its surface an appear- ance rough and irregular, and a firmer consistence than elsewhere. These bodies nevertheless are not so distinctly observed in man as in certain animals, for instance the horse, ox, stag, dog, and wolf. These glandular or follicular bodies are believed to be seated mostly in the submucous cellular tissue. The upper part of the jejunum does not present many glandular bodies, and indeed is most commonly without them for several feet • * Two new Glands near the Prostate Gland, with their Excretory Ducts. Bv Mr William Cowper. Phil. Transactions, No. 258, p. 864. + Adversaria Anatomica, IV. 8, 9, &c.