INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE—FOLLICULAR DISEASE. 625 not unlike jelly. This may be easily recognized, even when mix- ed with feculent matter. It is free from the peculiar offensive odour of the latter; and it appears to contain a proportion of al- buminous or gelatinous matter, or both. Ulceration of the mucous follicles is very common after the dis- ease in any of the above forms has subsisted long. This was seen in those of the duodenum by Brunner, in those of the ileum by Lecat, Prost, Petit, and Serres, Bretonneau, and Trousseau, Bil- lard, and Dr Bright. This form of ulceration is invariably more complicated and more difficult of cure than simple ulceration of the villous membrane. The latter, indeed, without affection of the follicles, is so rare that its existence may be questioned. To render the history of inflammation of the intestinal mucous membrane and its follicles complete, I feel it necessary to take a general view of the disorder, as it takes place at different periods of life and in different circumstances; and though in this view I shall not disregard the observations and descriptions of others, yet I deduce it principally from the results of personal observation con- tinued over a long period of years. 1. Chronic inflammation may attack the mucous follicles of the ileum at six weeks after birth, at three months, at six or eight months, or at twelve months, or two years after birth. After the latter period it is less frequent, but may take place under circum- stances presently to be mentioned. The earliest period at which I have observed the disease after birth was six weeks. And in the case to which I allude, it must be observed, that the disease had been present for three or four weeks; so that it may be allowed that it commences as early as two or three weeks after birth. The aggregated patches, which are generally more distinct in the infant than in the adult, are elevated, with rough prominent edges, rough surfaces, so uneven with elevations and depressions that they have been supposed to be ulcerated, and they have been in this condition by some supposed to be in a state of ulceration. When, however, the surface is carefully cleansed by water, it is seen that it is merely irregular, rugose, here prominent and elevated, there depressed; and, in short, swelled or in a state of inflammatory con- gestion. The reason of this irregularity is that the inflammatory conges- tion and injection affects mostly the follicular cellular tissue, which then rising up, where it most easily does so, causes the elevations;