550 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. stomach, the mucous corion is in the form of a soft but firm mem- branous substance, about one-sixth or one-eighth of one line thick, tough, of a dun-gray or fawn colour, (intermediate between Sienna- yellow and ochre-yellow, Syme,) slightly translucent, and sinking in water. The attached or inner surface is flocculent and tomen- tose, and a shade lighter than the outer, which presents a sort of shag or velvet, consisting of very minute piles. This, when exa- mined by a good lens at oblique light, appears to consist of an in- finite number of very minute roundish bodies closely set, but sepa- rated by equally minute linear pits, and occasionally circular de- pressions. In the ileum it presents much the same characters ; but the minute bodies of its shaggy surface are still larger and more distinct, and may be seen by the naked eye. In the windpipe, again, it is rather thinner and lighter coloured ; and while its outer surface presents numerous minute pores, it is much smoother than in the alimentary canal, and entirely destitute of those minute bodies seen in the latter. It nowhere presents any appearance of fibres. The mucous corion rests on a layer of filamentous tissue, pretty firm and dense, and of a bluish white colour,—a character by which it is easily distinguished from the soft fawn-coloured mucous mem- brane. This submucous filamentous tissue is what is erroneously termed the nervous coat by Ruys^h, Albinus, and some of the older anatomists. In certain parts the mucous corion is covered by a thin membrane, which has been named the epidermis or cuticle. It is exceedingly difficult to demonstrate this membrane dis- tinctly. It is very thin, quite transparent, and is perhaps most easily shown by boiling or scalding a portion of mucous membrane, and then peeling off with care the outer pellicle. This experiment succeeds best in the mucous membrane of the mouth and palate, in which, therefore, the existence of mucous epidermis cannot be doubted. In cases of death by swallowing boiling water, the epidci- mis is raised in the form of vesications on the base of the tongue, on the epiglottis, and even sometimes at the arytenoid membrane; and I have seen the epidermis of the epiglottis forming vesications in con- sequence of the deglutition of sulphuric acid. The observations of Wepfer, Haller, and Nicholls, and especially of Bleuland,* aie sufficient to prove its existence in the oesophagus. Bichat admits that, though it can be demonstrated at the cutaneous junctions of * Jani Bleuland, M. D. Observation's Anatomico-Medicse de Sana et inorbosa ceso- phagi structura. Lug. Bat. 1785.