GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 46 stance forcibly applied. The swelling may be local, or confined to one arm, to one leg, to a band, to part of a limb, to the scrotum, to the face, or so forth; or it may extend in different degrees to the greater part or the whole of the person. In the former case it is termed OEdema, (wS^a) or swelling; in the latter it receives the name of Anasarca, ava, ffagza, dropsy in the flesh,) and is the aqua intercus of the Romans. It was the white or pale and blanched colour of this sort of swelling which procured for it the name of Leucophlegmatia (AsuxopAey^ar/a), or white inflammation among the ancient physicians. The fluid of the filamentous tissue may coagulate spontaneously, (Blackall, 263 ;) but it always undergoes coagulation on the appli- cation of heat or the addition of re-agents. The preternatural increase of the cellular serosity now mention- ed is supposed to arise either from diminished absorption or in- creased exhalation. This point will be considered afterwards when speaking of the exhalants. < 7. Emphysema. Pneumatosis spontanea et traumatica, Cullen. The filamentous tissue may be distended with air, which causes a uniform swelling, crepitating or emitting a crackling sound when pressed. The situations in which this aerial swelling may take place vary according to the cause by which it is produced. It may take place spontaneously (Baillie,) when it is commonly general, and is supposed to depend on a process of secretion from the blood- vessels. It may arise from rupture or laceration of the mucous membrane of the larynx or windpipe, (De Villars, Cheselden, Holyoke, O’Brien,) when the swelling appears chiefly over the face, neck, and upper part of the chest. It may succeed a broken rib, or any injury of the lungs, (Littre, Berger, William Hunter, Ches- ton, Leake, Gooch, Halliday,) when it appears sometimes over the neck, face, and chest, sometimes over the chest and side only. It may arise from rupture of the bronchial membrane during violent efforts, (Blagden, Hicks, Simmons;) and in this manner emphysema happens in puerperal women. Lastly, it may appear as an effect of gangrenous inflammation and mortification, when it is confined sole- ly to the affected limb. In the latter case the air is produced by the decomposition of the serum of the blood in the morbid parts. 8. Vascular Sarcoma, Abcrnethy. The tumour known under this name is, of all the new growths incident to the animal tis- sues, the most simple in structure. I refer it to this head for two 4