394 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, Occasionally spasmodic motions take place; and in certain cases the functions of the part are destroyed. Thus a man of 36 years of age lost his sight in consequence of the formation of a neuromatic tumour in the optic nerve, (Sedillot,) a little larger than a hemp- seed.* In a man of 60, who suffered from symptoms of asthma, a tubercle the size of a pea was found in the right diaphragmatic nerve.f The causes of neuroma and neuromation are little known. In several of the cases, the formation of the tumour was preceded by violence or injury. In others it arose spontaneously. The circum- stances of the following case show the effect of chronic inflamma- tion arising from causes operating on the system at large, and pro- bably on tbe digestive functions. A student in medicine, an internal pupil at the Hotel Dieu of Angers, occupying an apartment situate several feet below the level of the court, and sleeping in a recess formed in the substance of the wall of the hospital, suffered, at the end of some months’ abode in this unhealthy place, an attack of arthritis in the great toe; and, shortly after, there was formed, beneath the skin covering the in- ternal saphena vein and nerve in the leg, a hard tumour, of the size of a grain of wheat, and, whenever it was touched by the pa- ■ tient, either in dressing or undressing, or under any other circuin- • stances, caused pain, shooting like an electric shock upon the foot, in the direction of the ramifications of the nerve. Having obtained from the administrators of the hospital another apartment, he was at the end of some months cured of the neural- gia and the neuromatic tubercle. The same individual, when some years afterwards at Paris, had under the chin a little boil, the ci- catrix of which continued for several months the seat of acute pain, caused by the friction of the razor, and which spread in a radiating direction over the neck and chest. The subject of this case was the late M. Beclard4 7. Considerable wasting and shrinking were seen in the optic nerves by Spigelius, Riolan, Rolfinck, Morgagni, Santorini, and Benninger; and complete destruction in the olfacient nerves by Falkenburg. These changes, which take place generally at the cerebral end of the nerve, are accompanied with diminution or loss of function. * Journal dc Medecine, Tome L. -y Dissertation sur les Affections Locales des Nert's. Par Pierre Jules Descot, D. A • Paris, 1825. P. 257. X Ibid. p. 212.