MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—PNEUMONIA. 981 a lobule, whether next the pleura or adjoining lobules; then the cells enclosing the capillary vessels; and thence extending from cell to cell, it arrives at the intercellular passages, and at the ter- mination of the bronchial tubes becomes identified with the bronchial membrane.* In several points these statements agree; in others they greatly differ. On two points all agree. The first is, that within each lobule there is a separate or proper system of minute bronchial ra- mifications, with terminal ends, between which there are communi- cations within the lobule only. The second is, that these bronchial divisions and terminations, whether named air-cells or not, do not communicate with those of the contiguous lobules. The air which enters the interior of one lobule never can find its way into the in- terior of the contiguous lohules. Section II. Morbid States of the Lungs. The morbid states of the lungs are, inflammation and its effects; hepatization of various kinds; suppuration; haemorrhagic peripneu- mony; gangrene; dilatation of the air-cells; emphysema; hemor- hage; tuberculation and vomicae; parasitical animals, and various heterologous growths. § 1. Pneumonia.—The anatomical characters and morbid effects of inflamed lung may be stated in the following manner, lsi!, On opening the chest and admitting the air, though there are no adhesions, the lung does not collapse at all, or does so very slightly. 2d, The pulmonic substance, when inflamed, becomes harder and denser than natural, and does not float completely in water. If the induration is considerable or extensive, it sinks en- tirely. 3d, It loses its elasticity and compressibility, or cannot be inflated, and no longer crepitates as in the healthy state, but re- sembles a piece of solid flesh. 4th, When divided by the knife a portion of inflamed lung is more or less firm; its spongy or vesicu- lar structure appears much redder than usual, the colour beino- chiefly florid but partly of a darker hue ; a white or yellowish fluicf somewhat frothy, flows from the cut bronchial tubes ; the substance of the lung is dark red or brown-red, and very much loaded with On the Minute Structure of the Lungs, and bercle. By George Rainey, Esq. M. R. C. S. xxviii. p. 581. London, 1845. on the Formation of Pulmonary Tu- Medico-Ohirurgical Transactions, vol.