756 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the 17th case of Palletta, in which a bloody tumour, containing pure blood, was found in the left ham.* The incision of these tu- mours is always followed by extensive and malignant, often fatal inflammation of the interior surface of the cyst. § 9. Tyroma.—Synovial membrane is said to be liable to tuber- cular deposition. No doubt can be entertained of the frequency of albuminous deposits; and I believe tubercles have been seen in the coxo-feraoral synovial membrane in disease of that joint. This, however, I have not had an opportunity of verifying. § 10. Cartilage.—In some instances, cartilaginous bodies are ob- served to adhere by a narrow peduncle to the free surface of the synovial membranes. This, though most frequently observed in the femoro-tibial articulation, is certainly not peculiar to it. These bodies may be either generated by morbid action of the synovial tissue, or may be portions of cartilage or fibro-cartilage broken accidentally from some part of the articular apparatus, and suffered again to contract adhesion to the synovial membrane by the inflam- mation which their presence induces. § 11. Hematoidfungus, or cerebriform degeneration, is a disease which often originates in the interior of joints. The circumstances under which this begins render it difficult to ascertain the tex- ture primarily affected. It is, nevertheless, most probable that it is chiefly the synovial membrane in which this tumour commences. In the cases of the disease which have been inspected before much destruction has taken place, the articular extremities of one or both bones have presented large fungous spongy masses of matter like brain, and well supplied with blood-vessels; and it has been im- practicable to recognize any trace of synovial membrane or carti- lage. The analogy between the serous and synovial sacs in this respect is obvious. The degeneration may take place in any joint, but affects com- monly the shoulder-joint, the hip-joint, and the knee-joint. § 12. Scirrho-carcinoma appears not to originate in this tissue, but certainly affects it from collateral tissues. Some authors have, indeed, with singular vagueness, spoken of certain forms of white swelling or fungus articuli, as being a sort of cancerous disease. This, however, is only one of many errors which originate in the practice of applying a vague general epithet to many different morbid states. * Exercitntioneb Pathologicic, p. 207.