976 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. other, but not with those of contiguous lobules; and that these cells vary in size at different ages.'* Reynaud, who examined the bronchial tubes with the view of ascertaining the accuracy of the representations of Reisseissen, arrives at the following conclusions. Any given bronchial tube when traced through the lung is found to divide before and behind, and on each side into small branches; which again traced still further are found to be subdivided into branches still smaller than these. These divisions become shorter and shorter, and of smaller calibre, end in becoming rounded, as if they had formed at their side a number of small shut ends or de- pressions, and at length they terminate in an extremity shut and scarcely enlarged. This is shown by mercury poured into them and urged forward by pressure, when the mercury demonstrates, as it were, the last divisions of the diminutive bronchial tree,—and also by insufflation and dissection. These small tubes all terminate at right angles to the pleura, which allows the observer to recog- nize only the assemblage of their terminal sacs, and not the bron- chial tubes from which they proceed. He mentions, however, the following disposition also. A greater or smaller number of bronchial tubes larger than others do not end thus at the pleura; but having come near it, instead of termi- nating more or less rectangularly at the pleura, proceed beneath this membrane parallel to it, and terminate at the distance of two, three, four, or five lines from their point of emergence. The air which filled these tubes appeared like the mercury, in the instance above mentioned, to represent these small trees with perfect regu- larity, and to demonstrate their arborescent disposition to that point, when pressure more or less forcible was inadequate to urge the air onward, and where it was evident it had reached its last limits. These ends of bronchial tubes are about two lines from the pleura, or even less; and to demonstrate them fully, it is often requisite to open them the whole length, and urge a bristle through them, so as to perforate that membrane, or to make a small counter opening. In this manner the end of the bronchial tube is displayed, showing the membrane continuous from the upper part of the tube •|. Memoire sur la structure du poumon de l’homme ; sur les modifications qu eprouve cette structure dans les divers ages ; ct sur la premiere originede la phthisic pulmonaire ; par M. Magcndie. Journal de Physiologic, Tome i. p. 78. Paris, 18- ■