297 BRAIN. minute capillary vessels. This general description I have derived partly from the description of Rochoux,* but especially from those of Lerminier and Serres,f and partly from personal observation. The change in the structure and consistence of the brain sur- rounding the clot forms one variety of softening (ramollissement,) or pulpy disorganization; and notwithstanding the opinion expressed by Pariset, Recamier, Rochoux,J and others, that it is the cause of the effusion, it is invariably the effect either of this or of the preli- minary injection. This is established not only by the facts already mentioned, but by the cases of Morgagni, of M. Dan de la Vau- terie,§ and especially by those of Lerminier and Serres.|| Vascular injection, with or without bloody effusion, may take place in any part of the brain ; but certain parts are much more commonly the seat of this discharge than others. Thus Morgagni, treading in the steps of Bonetus, justly remarked, that either bloody effusion, or the caverns formed by it, are found almost always in the striated bodies, or in the optic thalami, or in both, while the anterior part of the hemisphere was very rarely, and the posterior part almost never affected.H The general accuracy of this conclu- sion is in some degree confirmed by modern observation, which, in a majority of cases, has found the striated and optic bodies diseased. Rochoux particularly shows, that of forty-one cases of bloody effu- sion terminating fatally, twenty-four were found in the corpus stria- tum, two *in the optic thalamus, one in the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, and one beneath the corpus striatum; while only thirteen, not more than one-half, were found in other parts of the brain. The reason of this is to be found in the anatomical relations of this part of the brain. Near the beginning of the fissure of Sylvius is situate the white perforated spot of Vicq-d’Azyr (“substance blanche que j’appelle perforce”) Through these orifices the Sylvian or middle artery of the brain, which lies in the fissure, transmits a great number of arteries of various sizes into the substance of the brain, and through the cerebral nucleus (corpus striatum,) which lies immediately over this perforated spot. This arrangement ren- ders the striated body, or rather the striated nucleus, the most vascular part of the whole organ, and the most liable, when the cerebral vascular system is overloaded, to effusion of blood. * Recherches. Cases, passim. Article vi. pp. 87, 88. Section ii. art. 2. t Annuaire Medico-Chirurgicale. Lerminier, Cases 4, 5, 7, 8. Serrcs, various cases in § 12. Ap oplexie Cerebrate. + Rcchcrchcs, &c. pp. 88 and 89. § These soutenue, See. II Annuaire, loco citato. ^ Epistola iii. 18.