95 ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. produce much less inconvenience than in the young and adult. (Bichat.) It is certain that in the latter it almost invariably causes fatal disease of the heart or arteries, or of both. The most ordinary effect of calcareous incrustation, when exten- sive, is to induce chronic inflammation and ulceration of the arterial tissue. The earthy matter operates as a foreign body, and by con- stant irritation destroys the vitality of the inner membrane, which exfoliates, and inflames the proper tissue, which is then eroded. In this state the occasional application of a slight force may be followed by more or less laceration of the proper coat. In arteries covered by a filamentous sheath, the blood thus discharged is injected into the sheath, which is then distended into a spherical sac situate more or less on one side of the vessel. This forms the disease described as true aneurism by Scarpa. In arteries not supplied with fila- mentous sheath, as in the brain, the blood escapes freely, and may by its quantity induce fatal compression of that organ. (Blane, Hodgson, Bouillaud, and Serres.) The calcareous deposition renders the arterial tube so brittle, that the application of a ligature invariably cracks it, prevents the usual pi ocess of adhesion, and is generally succeeded by ulceration and hemorrhage. In persons advanced in life calcareous deposi- tion in the arteries of the lower extremities is a cause not unfre- quent of mortification of the toes, feet, and legs, generally termi- nating fatally. (Cowper, Naish, and Pott.) 5. Atheromatous Deposition. This term has been applied to a semifluid or cheesy opaque substance, which is not unfrequently found between the inner and proper tunics of arteries. Its consis- tence may vary from that of purulent matter to the tenacity of curd, or the granular firmness of cheese. Observed by the first Monro, by Ilaller, and others, it appears to be considered by Scania as a variety of the same change which I am afterwards to mention as steatomatous deposition. From this certain circumstances show that it ought to be distinguished, 1st, Atheromatous deposition appears to arise from a sort of suppuration; for, in genera] it fa possible to trace the transition from purulent fluid to the concrete matter of atheroma. 2d. This orrrmnt nf Ua • • , . 10 „ . „ i account ot its on uni derives strrmnr confirmation from the fact, that it almost always contains a patch 01 patches of calcareous matter in its centre. 3dly, It is associated much more frequently with the calcareous than with the steatoma- ous deposite. It is for these reasons not unlikely that the athero-