817 PAROTID GLAND.—DISEASES. fever, synochus, scarlet fever, and similar diseases, appeal's to be seated rather in the surrounding cellular and adipose tissue than in the parotid gland. It occasionally proceeds to suppuration ; and this I have seen it do, notwithstanding the use of means calculated to obviate this termination. This result is supposed not to be un- favourable ; and many physicians prefer promoting it by the use of stimulating applications. At the same time, it must be observed that suppuration in this region is not always a favourable result. The following case given by Monteggia is in point. In a man of 60 years a swelling took place, in the course of fever, in the right parotid region. This speedily subsided, and was followed by a similar swelling in the left parotid region, which terminated in abscess. This being evacuated by an incision made below the ear, the opening continued for one month discharging much matter, and a little coming away daily by the ear-hole. The patient, in the meantime, though the original disease was gone, did not recover properly, continued long languishing, and at length, becoming worse, died comatose. Inspection of the body disclosed the following facts. The whole cellular tissue on the left side of the head was loaded with fluid. The parotid gland, contracted, rigid, and hardish, was marked in various places with red points. From the external site of the in- cision an ulcerated passage or sinus led to the meatus auditor ius, the eroded cartilage of which was partly seen. The adjoining part of the bony canal, with the root of the zygomatic process, were struck with caries. In the meatus itself were some loose osseous fragments, along with some testaceous remains of some insect dead in this situation. The temporal muscle presented unequivocal traces of previous inflammation ; and beneath it were some drops of pu- rulent matter on the surface of skull. The intermeningeal space, when the skull was opened, effused a large quantity of fluid on the* eft side, the veins here being, besides, unusually turgid. When the dura mater was detached from the inner surface of the skull on this side, there appeared a purulent space half an inch broad on the surface of the petrous process, where the foramina of Valsalva lead to cavity of the tympanum. The purulent matte., nevertheless, did not proceed from that Tadtr , IT WaS "° dUeaSe- B,lt the suppuration which tnns VWeen th° temporal muso,e »"'> ‘he skull, had transmitted many drops into the cavity of the skull by a small 3 F