72 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. as consumption, cancer, disease of the liver, especially cirrhosis, disease of the heart, granular degeneration of the kidneys, ulcera- tion of the intestines, &c.; 3cZ, Purulent collections or secretions ; 4th, Leucophlegmatic and dropsical states; 5th, Gloomy and me- lancholy thoughts or passions ; 6th, Long and uninterrupted effort of the intellectual powers ; 7th, Preternatural increase of the na- tural evacuations, as in cholera, diarrhoea, diabetes, &c. mucous discharges, especially from the pulmonary and intestinal mem- branes, as in chronic catarrh, inflammation of the intestines and dysentery ; 8th, Long and intense heat, whether natural, as during hot summers, or artificial, as in furnaces, hot-houses, &c.; 9th, Running, riding, and every species of fatiguing exercise long con- tinued, as is exemplified in the case of grooms at Newmarket, Doncaster, &c.; 10th, States of long disease not organic; 1 Ith, Night-watching and want of sleep in general ; 12th, Immoderate use of spirituous liquors; 13th, Habit of eating bitter and spiced or acid aliments. Yet even in these states the fat of the animal body is seldom en- tirely wasted. In several organic diseases, in which great ema- ciation takes place, a considerable quantity of fat is always found in the orbits behind the eyeball, round the substance of the heart, around the kidneys, in the colon, and in the mesentery and omen- tum.* According to the observation of William Hunter, anasar- cous dropsy is the only disease in which the fat of the adipose mem- brane is entirely consumed. “ This disorder, when inveterate, has that effect in such a degree, that we find the heart or mesentery of such subjects as free from fat as in the youngest children.'’ This, however, is in some degree denied by Bichat, who contends that it is not uncommon to find much subcutaneous fat in subjects greatly infiltrated, (Vol. I. p. 57.) It is obvious that much will depend on the stage of the disease. It cannot be expected, that the moment serous infiltration appears in the filamentous tissue, all the fat should be at once removed from the adipose. The process of ab- * An instance of this, which occurred within the last few days, may be now men- tioned. I had occasion to examine the body of a young gentleman, (3d October 1827,) who had laboured under symptoms of pulmonary disease during the three months previous to his death. Though the left lung was completely occupied with small whitish amorphous masses of tubercular matter of different degrees of consist- ence, and the right lung in addition to this was in the second stage of pulmonic in- flammation, yet a considerable layer of fat was found between the skin and muscles on the chest and belly.