BRAIN. 343 given by the same author. In this a man of 50, who became ma- niacal, with lucid intervals, however, lost judgment, speech, memory, and finally became paralytic and idiotical. These symptoms were found to depend on the conversion of the lower surface of the left cerebellic hemisphere into a jelly-like matter, separated from the sound part of the organ by walls of hard polished cerebellic sub- stance. It is possible that this jelly-like matter may have been either the result of the process of softening in a part previously hard, or the incipient stage of what was afterwards to acquire the lardaceous consistence. Margaroid and Cliolesterine tumour. (Margaroides.) Cru- veilhier describes and illustrates with figures a tumour consisting of white glistening globular masses, like pearls; and indeed the tu- mour appears to consist of minute or middle-sized pearls aggre- gated together. These bodies vary in magnitude, from the size of vetches to that of peas. The colour was that of dead silver, pearl, or whitish-gray wax. The tumours thus formed varied in size, from that of a nut to a walnut, or a small pippin. In general the tumours had greater latitudinal extent than thickness. They were irregularly round; but seemed in some instances to consist of two or more tumours aggregated together. These bodies were situate mostly on the base of the brain, over the protuberance, or that and the limbs of the brain, or the lower surface of the cerebellum. This sort of tumour is formed in the subarachnoid cellular tis- sue, that is between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater. As it increases in size, however, it encroaches on the base of the brain, and it may, as in one case given by Cruveilhier, destroy the floor of the third ventricle and the contiguous parts, and presen(. itself immediately beneath thq fornix. This tumour presents no trace of organic structure. It is a se- creted product or deposit formed within the cells of the cellular tissue; a sort of adipose matter having the consistence of marrow or suet, covered by a layer of more coherent matter imitating the brilliancy of silver or pearl. hen this substance was examined chemically, it was found to consist almost solely of cholesterine. 01 the cases given by Cruveilhier, one occurred in a young wo- man of 18 years; another took place in an old soldier of 40 years.* 1 he effects produced by tumours of this kind are very similar to Anatomie Pathologirjue. Deuxiemc Livraison. PI. VI.