207 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, &C. Haller, though unwilling to deny the testimony of these ob- servers, regards it liable to various sources of fallacy, and doubts the direct communication of the lymphatic and venous systems. John F. Meckel, the grandfather, maintained in 1771 the communication, from the circumstance, that he injected the lymphatics from the veins.* Hewson, though not doubting the fact, regards it as an exception to the general rule. Cruikshank, again, states that he never saw a lymphatic vessel inserted into any other red veins than the subclavians and jugulars. The termination remarked by Steno and his successors constitutes in truth the common trunk or lympha- tic vein admitted by Cruikshank,—a thoracic duct of the right side. This mode of termination was afterwards in 1821 revived by Tiedemann and Fohman,-f- who, in the seal, state that the lactiferous vessels communicate with veins arising from the mesenteric glands, and pass thence into the venous trunks without proceeding through the thoracic duct. This, however, was shown by Dr Knox to be a mistake, resulting from the decomposed state of the animals examined by the German anatomists. J M. Lauth Junior of Stras- bourg, again, conceives that he has demonstrated, that lymphatics communicate with veins within the substance of organs, and in the interior of the lymphatic glands :§ an inference which at pre- sent requires further verification. The statements of Lippi of Florence, that every lymphatic almost communicates freely with venous tubes, is still more improbable, and has been rendered ex- ceedingly doubtful by the researches of Rossi ;|| and Panizza shows that there is no communication between the minute arteries and the lymphatics. The connections of the ends of lymphatics with the organs and tissues from which they arise, termed their origins, are completely unknown. In some favourable instances the lymphatics of the in- testinal canal are so filled with a reddish or whitish fluid after the process of digestion has continued for some time, that not only are their larger branches easily seen, but by the aid of the miscroscope * Jo. Fr. Meckel, Nova Experimenta et Observationes de finibus Venarum ae Va- sorum lymphaticorum, &c. § I. p. 4. Lugduni Bat. 1772. 8vo. T Anatomische Untersuchungen uber die Verbindung der Saugadern mit den Venen. Heidelberg, 1821. t 0n the Anatomy of the Lacteal System in the Seal. Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. XXII. p. 25, &c. § Essaisur lcs Vaisseaux Lymphatiques. Strasbourg, 1824. II Ccnni sulla comunicazione dei vasi linfatici colle vene ; di Giovanni Rossi Doe- tore, See, Annali Universali di Mcdecina, Anno 1826. Vol. XXXVII. p. 52.