TYROMA.—MELANOSIS. 853 §11. Tyroma.—Does tubercular structure affect this gland? In some instances it is possible to recognize in it small bodies with the aspect of tubercles, when the spleen and the peritonaeum are affect- ed by these growths. At the same time, that the lesion is not very frequent may be inferred from this fact, that in tubercular disease of the lungs, when the intestines are also much affected, the pan- creas is most rarely affected by the same or any similar deposit. It is necessary, however, to distinguish between strumous and scir- rhous tubercles. The latter, that is, scirrhus in the tubercular form, are seen occasionally ; the former very seldom. § 12. Melanosis seems to be more frequent than tubercle in the pancreas ; yet much less so than either scirrlius or encephaloma. A good example of the deposite is given by Langstaff in the third vo- lume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, and the original of which is preserved in his museum, (now in the College of Surgeons.) In this instance the disease affected the brain, liver, intestines, ster- num, and ribs; and it projected externally in the axilla. From a similar instance preserved in the museum at St Bartho- lomew’s Hospital, it may be inferred that melanosis is often com- bined with encephaloma.* Section IV. MORBID STATES OF THE LIVER. The morbid conditions, to which the liver is liable, may be dis- tinguished into two orders; first, those proper to the liver; and secondly, those affecting the gall-bladder and gall-ducts. The morbid changes proper to the liver may be enumerated in the following order; Inflammation of different kinds and its effects such as adhesion, suppuration, induration, and softening; hyper- trophy; atrophy; cirrhosis; fatty degeneration; concretions in the ducts; entozoa, or parasitical animals; and the heterologous de- posits. ° Among those belonging to the gall-bladder and gall-ducts must be placed inflammation of these parts, and their effects; contraction and obstiuction ot the ducts; biliary concretions and their effects- and entozoa or parasitical animals. J y™-I0*--men inflammation attacks the liver, it may affect either the peritoneum, or the hepatic substance, or both. '»'■ PnSTvtrii,0*” ? I,""’olon,c'rt B“Pi- don, 1846. 8vo. Series xx. p. 347. ' F.itl.ological Anatomy. Lon-