944 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. extended from the bladder upwards, through the ureters on both sides into the pelvis and calyces of the kidneys. The ureters were rendered thick and firm like cartilage; their size was increased to about five or six times the usual dimensions; their canal was also en- larged ; and their firmness prevented them from collapsing, as in the healthy state. The morbid state now mentioned appeared to have originated in the mucous membrane, but eventually to have affected the other tissues. It was difficult to say whether it had commenced in the membrane of the calyces or in that of the ureter, and extended to the former; for both were affected in nearly equal degrees. This change was accompanied with painful and difficult micturi- tion, the urine containing puriform mucus and sand; with quick pulse, much thirst, hot dry skin, alternating with shiverings and sweat- ings, wasting, loss of strength, a most anxious miserable expression of the countenance, and slight incurvation of the person, as if un- der the suffering of much pain. The disease had been of long duration, at least several months. § 9. Disease of the Kidneys simulating disease of the Spinal Chord; and inflammation of the Calycine Membrane from injury or disease of the Spinal Chord.—A singular effect of renal inflamma- tion and suppuration is to induce paraplegia and symptoms of dis- eased spine. It has been long known that injuries and diseases chiefly of an inflammatory character in the spine or spinal cord, are liable to be followed by various morbid states of the urinary secre- tion, which is generally rendered alkalescent or ammoniacal, some- times deposits the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, sometimes the carbonate of ammonia. Bellingeri had observed, that in animals, after experiments on the spinal chord, inflammation was liable to attack the kidneys and the peritoneum, and render the former red and vascular, and cover them with lymph. Mr Stanley has shown, by a judicious selection of cases, that when the spinal chord is sup- posed to be diseased or injured, cither directly or in consequence of disease or injury of the vertebrae, causing pain in the back and paraplegia, the symptoms so produced do not originate from dis- ease of either the vertebrae, the chord, or the membranes, all of which are sound, but from inflammation or suppuration of the kidneys, in which in general are found collections of purulent matter. From such cases it must be inferred, as Mr Stanley has done, that disease originating in the kidneys simulates, and may give rise to disease in the spinal chord, probably by a reflected in- 4