53 ADIPOSE TISSUE. of the permeability of the arteries, and their direct communication with the cells of the adipose tissue, and trusting to the testimony of Malpighi, Ruysch, Glisson, and Morgagni, that it existed in the arterial blood, saw no difficulty in the notion of secretion, or rather of a process of separation; and upon much the same grounds the opinion is adopted by Portal and others. Bichat, again, contends, that no fat can be recognized in the arterial blood, and adduces the fact, that none can be distinguished in blood drawn from the tem- poral artery. It may be doubted, nevertheless, whether adequate means to ascertain this point were adopted. Gmelin obtained from blood cholesterine, stearine, elaine, and stearic acid. Chevreul obtained from fibrin, by means of ether, a fatty matter. Lecanu found in large quantities of blood small proportions of crystal- lizable fatty and oily matter; and lastly, Dr R, D. Thomson and others have since that shown, that after meals of certain kinds of food the blood contains adipose and oily matter. From these facts it may be inferred, that adipose matter is conveyed in mi- nute quantities into the blood, and is rapidly deposited from the vessels in various parts of the adipose tissue, where it is afterwards found. From the phenomena of various diseases also, and those of the hybernating animals, which retire in the beginning of win- ter fat and heavy, and come out in spring meagre and extenu- ated, there is reason to believe that fat is absorbed by the veins and lymphatics. It must be observed, nevertheless, that fat or oily matter is found in the free state, and in appreciable quantity, only in certain condi- tions of the system ; and as arteries are not habitually opened for blood-letting, the circumstance of fat or oil not being observed in cer- tain cases of arteriotomy, forms only a degree of negative evidence. This result is not at variance with the facts observed, as already stated, by Hewson* and Dr Traill,f who found oily matter in ve- nous blood in two instances, or with those observed by Mr An- derson,f Dr Ziegler, Dr Christison,§ and myself, all of whom have * Hewson’s Experimental Inquiries, p. 191, loco citato. t On the presence of Oil in Human Blood. By Thomas Stewart Traill, M. D. Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal, XVII., 236, 637, and XIX. 319. i On White or Milk-like Serum. Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. XXXIII. p. 215. § On the Causes ot the Milky and Whey-like Appearance sometimes observed in the Blood. By R. Christison, M. D. &c. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. XXXIII. p. 274.