443 BONE. original connection with the alveolar membrane, by the minute vascular production which enters the orifice or orifices of the root. Physiological authors have thought it important to mark the period at which the teeth appear at the gums; and in general this takes place about the sixth or seventh month after birth. This mode of viewing the process of dentition, however, gives rise to numberless mistakes on the period of teething. The process, as we see, commences in the early period of foetal existence ; and the time at which they appear above the gums varies according to the progress made in the womb. In some the process is rapid; in others it is tardy; and even the fabulous stories of Richard III. and Louis XIV. may be understood physiologically, without the i aid of the marvellous. Generally speaking, the crown is com- ,| pleted at the period of birth ; and, according as the formation of the ;i root advances with rapidity or slowly, dentition is early or late. What is here described is the process of the formation of the first or temporary set of teeth, which consist, it is well known, of 20. In that of the second set the same course is observed. In the same J manner is observed a row of follicular sacs, though not exactly in the original alveoli; in the same manner deposition begins at the bottom of the free surface of the sac by the formation of the crown ; and in the same manner the crown is forcibly raised by the succes- sive accretion of new matter to its base. The moment this process [i commences, a new train of phenomena takes place with the primary teeth. The follicular sacs of the new or permanent teeth are libe- rally supplied with vessels for the purpose of nutrition ; and as these blood-vessels increase in size, those of the temporary teeth dimi- nish ; and the supply of blood being thus cut off, the latter undergo a sort of natural death. The roots which, as being last formed, are not unfrequently incomplete, now undergo a process of absorption ; and the tooth drops out in consequence of the destruction of its nutritious vessels. Some authors have ascribed this expulsion to pressure, exercised by the new tooth. They forget, however, that before the new tooth can exert any pressure, it must be in some degree formed; and to this a vascular system is indispensable. The increased number of the teeth when permanent, the enlarge- ment of the jaws, and the consequent expansion of the face, though interesting, are foreign to the present inquiry. Another part of the osseous system requiring notice are the sesa- moid bones. 4 liese derive their name, it is well known, from their J