GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 14 mical composition, and that the idea of considering one tissue as a modification of another, or one animal substance as forming or ge- nerating another, is, if not unnatural and impossible, at least much more remote from the truth, than to consider them as actually dif- fering in kind, and possessing the properties of a separate form of organized matter. This, therefore, though an evil in its way, is one of much less injurious consequence than the former, which, by its generalizing spirit, has a tendency to supersede investigation, and to consider the nature of the animal tissues as-sufficiently esta- blished. This perhaps was the error of Bichat, if his arrangement is chargeable with fault. But with still greater justice it may be said, that the recent attempts at classification, like the imperfect ones of the ancient physiologists, are to be blamed in diminishing too much the number of separate tissues, and in delivering arrange- ments, the principles of which are more general and comprehensive than nature warrants. It may indeed be assumed as a safe principle, that all the sub- stances employed in the construction of the animal body, which are not very obviously alike, may be considered as separate or distinct proximate principles, till careful examination shall show that they ought to be associated with others. This indeed defeats the pur- pose of classification, which is useful in proportion as it discovers genuine analogies and general resemblances for the purpose of communicating knowledge with facility; but it also prevents the approach or insinuation of error, by the caution with which it ex- amines, and the discrimination with which it adopts. In the short view which I propose here to take of the organic tissues, I shall not adhere scrupulously to either of those arrange- ments which I have already noticed, but attempt to modify that of Bichat, which is perhaps the least objectionable, by adopting as many of the suggestions of his commentators and followers as the nature of the subject and personal observation may seem to autho- rize. In the course of this exposition I shall have frequent occa- sion to refer to the best and most complete commentary that has yet appeared,—that by Professor Beclard, who has availed himself of the researches of J. F. Meckel, and Dr J. Gordon of Edinburgh, the Prodromo of Mascagni, the Histologie of Mayer, and the View of Bock. The human body consists of solid and fluid substances, the for- mer of which are organized, and determine the shape of the body ‘