GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 406 on the outer surface, instances were seen by Olaus Borrichius,* Riverius,f Job a Meekren,$ Peter de Marchettis,§ Malpighi,|| Peyer,l, Graetz, and Morgagni.** The ulcer occurring in the inner surface of the heart was seen by Morgagni, (Epist. xxiv. 17,) and by Laennec, who found one an inch long, half an inch broad, and more than four lines deep in the centre, in the inner surface of the left ventricle, which was hypertrophied, and at length rupured. 7. Myositis emolliens.—To this head may be referred the softened or pulpy state occasionally observed in the substance of the heart in weak extenuated subjects liable to fainting-fits, and also in those cut off by fever. The muscular fibres then assume a light fawn colour or pale yellow, like the dead leaf, become flabby and friable, and so easily lacerable as scarcely to sustain handling. By Laen- nec this is regarded as the result of error of assimilation or defec- tive nutrition ; while Bouillaud ascribes it to inflammation. One variety of softening appears to be the consequence of inflammation, and may be considered as gangrene of the heart. Most usually, however, it is the result of imperfect nutrition of the organ during disease, either chronic or subacute. 2. Hyperti'ophy.—There is reason to believe that the condition described as hypertrophy of muscles is mere enlargement with thickening and induration of the constituent fibres, depending on chronic inflammation. It is certainly quite different from the enlargement occasioned by exercise, to which it has been erro- neously compared. In the heart and bladder, in which it has been most frequently found, not only is the muscular substance thick- ened and enlarged, but it is rendered hard, firm, and in some parts almost cartilaginous. In the early stage the colour is simply brown; subsequently it acquires in certain parts a leaden-gray tint, which seems to depend on parts of the muscle assuming the cartilaginous induration. The substance of the organ then cuts firm, and resists the knife. The change seems either to depend on, or to be con- nected with, a process of chronic injection ; for the vessels are large, distended, and abundant. In the deltoid and biceps of the fencer, and the ylutaei and gastrocnemii of the dancer, though large and * Bartholini, Acta Med. Haf. Vol. I. Obs. 69. f Cent. i. Ob. 87. J Obs. Chirurg. 35. § Observ. Med.-Chir. 46. || Morgagni, Ep. xxv. L7.. H Method. Hist. Anat. c. vi. in Schol. ** Epist. xvi. 17.