GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 598 60 ; 731 die before the 40th year; and the rest are all destroyed before the 60th year. Saw-grinders, file-grinders, and scythe-grinders, who work on the wet stone, are less liable to bronchial disease and are longer lived. The numbers pursuing saw-grinding are not great. Yet among 78 persons engaged in it in 1843, 9 were between 60 and 65, and one died between 66 and 70, and one at 79. The number of scythe- grinders is also not great. In 1843 there were 30; and of these 8 were between 41 and 60 years of age. Both the saw-grinders and the scythe-grinders are exposed to accidents, sometimes fatal, from the breaking of the stone. The lesions which produce this great mortality are of a compli- cated character. The most common lesions are chronic inflamma- tion with thickening of the bronchial membrane, enlargement or dilatation of the bronchial tubes, emphysema, and expansion of the pulmonic tissue.*' The bronchial glands are enlarged, or converted into a black hard gritty substance, varying in size from half a marble to a large hazel nut. In dividing these glands, the sound emitted is the same as if the scalpel were dividing a soft stone ; and the section is black and polished, and grates over the edge of the knife. Such masses are commonly detected in grinders who have belonged to the most destructive branches.! Similar soft sectile gritty or stony matter is found in almost every part of the lungs, in portions varying from the size of a cur- rant to that of a bean. Adhesions between the pulmonic and costal pleurae are also fre- quent. In some instances the lungs present an appearance as if black currants had been distributed through their whole substance, and accompanied with similar bodies larger in size, but hard and gritty like them. These currant-like bodies are also observed on the sur- face of the lungs. As to their nature Dr Holland gives no opinion. But Dr C. Fox Favell states that frequent examination has con- vinced him that they consist of the dilated extremities of veins con- taining some of the solid constituents of the blood. * Diseases of the Lungs from Mechanical Causes. By G. Calvert Holland, M. D., p. 12. London, 11143, 8vo, -)■ Ibid. p. 41.