ERECTILE TISSUE. 173 During erection the blood accumulates in this tissue; but the cause and mechanism of this accumulation are completely unknown. Since these observations were made, M. Muller of Berlin has, by injecting the arteries of the penis, been enabled to give a more detailed and satisfactory account still of the peculiar arrangement of the erectile vessels. By injecting the principal artery of the penis before its subdivi- sion, and dividing longitudinally one of the corpora cavernosa, the ramifications of the nutrient arteries are then seen upon the inner side of the venous spaces, the arteries becoming smaller and smaller, until they pass into the capillary network, where their divisions can- not be seen by the naked eye. Besides these nutrient ramified arteries, there is seen on careful inspection another set of arterial branches of different size, form, and disposition, which are given off nearly at right angles from both the larger and smaller trunks. These arterial processes are about one-hundreth of an inch in dia- meter, and one-twelfth long, and are easily seen by the naked eye. They project into the cavities of the spongy substance, and termi- nate either bluntly or by dilated extremities, without undergoing any ramification. These short arterial processes are turned round at their extremities into a semicircle or more, and present a spiral appearance like the extremity of a screw. This disposition sug- gested to M. Muller the name of Helicine, or spiral or screw-like arteries; (Arteries Helicince.)* The helicine arteries of the penis are more easily seen in man than in any other animal which Professor Muller has examined. He has found them in all the animals in which he has sought for them; they are to be seen at the posterior part only of the penis in the stallion, but in the dog exist throughout the whole organ. In man, the helicine twigs of the penal arteries sometimes come off singly, and at other times they form tufts or bunches, consisting of from three to ten branches, and having in general a very short common stem. The swelling at the extremity, when it occurs, is gradual, and is greatest a little way from the end. The helicine branches given off from large arteries are not of a greater size than those coming from smaller ones, and even the smallest capillary arteries of the profunda penis, which can be seen with the help of a glass only, give off helicine twigs of a much greater size than themselves. Ueber die Arteriic Helicinre. Von Johann Dr Muller. Archive fur Anatomie und Physiologic, Heft II. 1835.