1048 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the auriculo-ventricular aperture is contracted, the left auricle be- comes dilated and sometimes hypertrophied, that is, its walls become thick and firm. 4 he most common changes ot this kind are dilatation of the ven- tiicles, dilatation of the right chambers, and hypertrophy of the ventricles. § 3. Atrophy of the Valves.—Perforating or Cribriform Atrophy.—The valves of the aorta and the folds of the mitral valve are liable in certain circumstances to become extremely thin, and at length to be perforated by small irregular holes. In this state they are unable to perform their functions as sustaining and resisting membranous folds, against the weight of the blood ; and not only does the lesion cause regurgitation, but the valves may give way and be ruptured. This cribriform state is most common in the aortic valves; next to these in the mitral valve. It is occasionally seen in the tricus- pid valve, and sometimes, though rarely, in the pulmonary semi- lunar valves. It appears to be a species of wearing, the effect of previous brittleness and attenuation, and these again the result of chronic inflammation. § 4. Contraction and Abridgment.—Under the operations of chronic inflammation and aberration in nutrition, the valves are liable to be not only indurated and thickened as already de- scribed, but to be shortened. Thus the semilunar valves at the origin of the aorta are liable to be in this manner drawn together, and shortened. In some instances two valves appear to be united, or to have coalesced into one; or one is unusually short and con- tracted; or the whole three may be drawn together at their margins. In the same manner he lacinice of the mitral valve are liable to become very much shortened, thickened, and drawn together. It may be doubted whether this last mentioned change is justly de- signated as atrophy. It is evidently one of the contracting effects or remote consequences of the shrivelling ensuing in certain forms of the inflammatory process in certain tissues. It appears to be the result of inflammatory action in the elastic fibrous tissue of the middle valvular tunic. These changes are most frequently observed in the mitral and aortic semilunar valves; less usually in the tricuspid and pulmo- nary semilunar valves. § 5. The latter are liable to a lesion of a very important nature from its connection with various malformations of the heart. 4