GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 558 rough or irregular ; but by the eye, or a good glass, it is possible to observe considerable irregularity in surface. All these characters become exaggerated under the influence of disease. They then become elevated, rough, irregular on the sur- face, and their opacity is increased. At the lower extremity of the ileum, where it enters the caecum, the whole membrane is often occupied with a large and extensive patch of agminated glands, most extensive in the long direction of the bowel, without definite shape, or rather the whole of the lower part of the ileum, for the space of from three to four inches, consists of a surface of agminated glands. The agminated glands, and also the solitary follicles of the ileum, are generally larger and more distinct caeteris paribus in infancy, than in adult life. In the bodies of infants, they are almost inva- riably easily seen and demonstrated. In the bodies of young sub- jects between 14 and 20 or 25, they are still visible, sometimes very distinctly. In general, however, after this period, they are greatly less distinct, and sometimes they cannot be recognized at all. In old age they cease to be observed. In the colon, the mucous follicles are still different both in shape and disposition. They appear in the form of small round oblate-spheroidal or orbicular bodies, with circular outline about one line in diameter, not unlike millet-seeds, with a central pore or aperture. These bodies are always isolated, and they are placed at the distance of from half an inch to one inch from each other. They are arranged all round the mucous surface of the bowel, and are not, as is ob- served as to the aggregated glands of the ileum, confined to one side of the bowel only. In different subjects they are presented with different degrees of distinctness. In some they are scarcely visible ; in others they are conspicuous. In dropsical subjects they are usually very distinct, probably from their tissue being infiltrated with serum. Their structure appears to consist of minute coloui - less vessels ramified in filamento-cellular tissue, and with a cential pore or excretory duct. They are placed immediately beneath or in the mucous corion, which over their surface is thin, and descends through the pore into the interior of the gland. At the lower extremity of the colon, or rather the rectum, there are placed several follicles, often of considerable size. Their struc- ture is in all respects similar to' that of those of*the colon.