788 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. bules placed along over each other, and the external cortical or vascular portion consisting of blood-vessels most minutely ramified, When in any of these simple or integral kidneys the aperture of the papilla is examined, it is found to be continued into a short fhickish tube not larger than one line or one line and a-half, which then is divided into two small cylindrical trunks. These again> after a short space, are divided into two others of the same diameter almost, very different from, and much larger than blood-vessels. Thence they advance dichotomous, cylindrical, straight, or deviat- ing little from the straight direction, and in their course constantly double and multiply themselves to the base of the papilla, being conjoined by tender cellular substance. When increased in number, without being diminished in diameter, they are collected into one or two bundles separate from each other by blood-vessels. Each of the bundles enters then its own meatus formed by the vascular plexus of the vault or arch. After this, the small ducts contained in their respective fasciculi, and connected with each other, are no longer dichotomous, but proceed singly in the same direction, through the substance of the cortex, whence they diverge laterally, and in a serpentine course, contorted in numerous convolutions, and wandering far from the branches. One single serpentine duct, continued from the straight duct, not inserted into the same, de- flected laterally, preserves almost always the same diameter and whiteness. These uriniferous ducts further are continued into the cortical part of the kidney, a fact first ascertained by Schumlansky, and afterwards by Huschke, by injecting them under the receiver of the air-pump. According to Schumlansky, as the straight ducts or Bellinian tubes advance to the periphery of the kidney they dimi- nish in number, or rather they terminate in serpentine ducts, which, with many windings and convolutions, proceed between the few and diminishing straight ducts onwards to the periphery or extreme edge of the cortical matter. Before the straight ducts reach this point or line, all of them have terminated in serpentine ducts which communicate by multiplied arches, so that at the peripheral edge of the cortical matter no straight ducts exist. Not essentially different is the account given by Huschke. Ac- cording to his account, when the tubes reach the utmost limits of the medullary matter of the organ, they proceed progressively, se- parating from each other, until in the surface of the kidney they