843 INDURATION OF THE PANCREAS. showed that the pancreatic induration had compressed the common biliary duct In general, when wasting is far advanced, the gland may be felt more or less distinctly by slight pressure on the belly, which is also attended either with pain or tenderness. In earlier stages of the dis- ease the most effectual mode of ascertaining the state of the pancreas is to make the patient lie prone on the belly, getting him supported so as to. allow the hand of the physician to examine the abdomen. If in this position the patient be examined carefully, in general it is possible to recognize not only a painful region, but some swell- ing. . Induration of the pancreas is attended, after some continuance, either with a leucophlegmatic appearance and anasarca, or with dropsy of the belly, which, though not an invariable consequence may supervene; and in every case of ascites, in which the liver does not appear to be indurated or enlarged, or affected with cirrhosis or tie kidneys are known not to be diseased, it may be apprehend- ed that the pancreas is indurated and compressing some of the veins either the vena cava or some of its branches. In some individuals induration of the pancreas appears to give use to that anomalous assemblage of symptoms called hypochon- driasis ; and probably in this manner we are to explain the fact mentioned by Baillie, that in „„e instance there were pain Tn the lips and a sense of numbness in one thigh or leg. Difficulty and pam in stooping are also not unfrequent symptoms. It must not ^ SOmetimes one of the lesions found in the bodies of the insane. These statements are, it must be admitted, not satisfactory ; and " t,llef “s® ,1S *° show tlle extreme difficulty of recognizing the presence of this disease during life, at a period sufficfently farly hffienb , 7 P° nrm “ C°rreCt a"d UsefuI ^gnosis. Thk ifficulty led Pemberton to conclude, that it is chiefly by ne»a- t..e reasoning that the physician must infer the existence of Is case of the pancreas; that is, if i„ a case in which the,"Is deen seated pain in the epigastric region, and more or less sickness and emaciation, the patient does not at the same time present the oX symptoms denoting the presence of nt-imn v sent the othei chl omc inflammation, of the pancreas. 1