GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 388 while the centre was filled with white and yellow matter, effused in the intervals of an infinite number of transparent vessels, mutually interlacing.* Examples of similar tumours are mentioned by Marandel,f Neumann,} Yon Siebold,§ Spangenberg,|| Alexan- der,H Mojon, and Covercelli.** Of the cases recorded by Von Siebold, one occurred in the per- son of an aged female with varicose veins of both legs and feet. Two small nervous tumours were situate near each other at the instep, between the ankles. They caused severe pains, which were alleviated neither by narcotics nor stimulants. His father applied caustic, and the disease disappeared, but soon returned. Von Siebold himself again employed caustic more efficaciously, and ex- tirpated the disease. The case recorded by Neumann took place in an old man of 70, on the middle and lower part of whose fore-arm a tumour as large as a pea, very painful on being touched or sustaining the slight- est pressure, had continued for thirty years. It was ascribed to a violent blow received on the arm. The skin covering it was healthy and movable, though the tumour itself was immovable, in consequence of attachments to muscles. Neumann recommend- ed excision. But the surgeon was afraid, lest, in dividing the nerve he should injure the artery, and he attempted to remove it by excit- ing suppuration produced by the application of caustic. Meanwhile the patient was destroyed by apoplexy. Of the cases described by Spangenberg and Alexander, two occurred to Dubois. One as large as a walnut, was situate on the patella. Another, as large as a middle-sized melon, was con- nected with the median nerve of the right arm. It was slightly movable without discoloration of the skin. Both were extirpated. The great evil of these tumours is, that from their relations they cause much pain. Thus Nicod states, that in 1816 he removed from the chest of a female aged 40, a lenticular tumour from six to seven lines in diameter, movable in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, apparently covered by the skin, which was attenuated so * Manuel dc Medecine Pratique, &c. Par Louis Odier, Doct. et Prof, a Paris et Geneve, 1811. Cl. IV. Ord. v. 17, p. 362. f Bulletin apud Journal de Medecine continue, Vol. XI. + In Von Siebold Sammlung Chirurg. Beobachtungen. § Von Siebold I. Band. p. 80, 02. || In Horn Archiv. V. Band, 2 Ileft, St. 2. 306. «j| s. Alexander, Dissertatio de Tumoribus Nervorum. Lugd. B. 1810. ** Chiron, Band 1. St. 3; and Memorie della Societate di Genova.