44 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Auvity, &c. Engelure. Scleroma of Chaussier, (cxXrigufiu ; gog.) Skin-bound of Underwood and Burns. Compact oedema of M. Leger and other French authors. First observed by John An- drew Uzembezius in 1718, this affection was not accurately de- scribed till 1780, when Denman and Underwood in England, and Doublet in France, published the result of their observations. In 1787 it was fully investigated by Andry, in a memoir crowned by the prize of the Royal Society of Medicine of Paris; and after- wards, in 1789, in those of Auvity and Hulme. Since this it has undergone the successive researches of Naudeau and Bard in France, Went, Henke, Golis, &c. in Germany, Liberali and Pal- letta in Italy, and again of Trocon, Leger, Denis, and Breschet in France. Notwithstanding the research of these several inquirers, however, the nature of this change in the filamentous tissue is still imperfectly understood. It has hitherto been observed only in infants, and very often im- mediately after birth. According to Leger, it/appears most fre- quently eight, twelve, or twenty-four hours after, and very seldom takes place later than the seventh day. Generally in the legs, not so often in the arms; the soft parts become unusually firm, dense, and diffusely swelled either continuously or in patches. The skin over these parts is hard, rough, and does not move easily; and it assumes a red, purple, or violet colour, which when pressed gives place to a yellow tint, with more or less depression. The same change is very generally remarked in the cheeks, the skin of which becomes quite immovable; and it appears successively in the belly and chest, the integuments of which feel as stiff as a board. At the same time the surface, especially the extremities, are unusually cold; the pulse is quick and very small; the breathing is much constrained and panting; the infant ceases to cry, becomes blue in the face, and seems to expire suffocated. The duration of the disease varies. The greatest number of in- fants die on the first, second, or third day from the date of attack. In less rapid cases death takes place about the tenth or twelfth day, and in some so late as the twenty-first day. After death the surface of the body appears in general hard, firm, and leathery, and presents a violet or brownish colour, inter- spersed with yellow patches. The cheeks, the extremities, and other parts affected during life are firm, rigid, and immovable. The subjacent filamentous tissue is very dense and granular, and