LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, &C. 213 sents the same condition in those of the lungs; and Soemmering describes those of the intestines as varicose in hernia. The same condition was observed by Bichat in the lymphatics of serous mem- branes. In dropsical subjects they are always much distended with fluid ; and hence the anatomist finds their demonstration much more easy in such circumstances. 4. Rupture of the lymphatics has been assumed as a probable cause of consumption by Morton, of scrofula in general by Acker- man, of Barbadoes leg by Hendy, of puerperal swelled leg by White, of dropsy by Van Swieten, Haase,* * * § Assalini,f Metzler,! and Soemmering,§ and of white swelling of the joints by Bram- billa. || Yet in neither of these diseases has the existence of rup- ture of the lymphatics been demonstrated; nor has the accident been shown to be one of ordinary frequency. Baillie admits that the thoracic duct may have been ruptured. But G uiffart is the only person who is said to have seen this accident in the person of a boy of fourteen.^ 5. Dilatation with Obstruction. Soemmering repeatedly found the lacteals of the small intestines near the duodenum filled and distended with a thick curdy matter like soft cheese. Of the same deposition in the lacteals of the jejunum with much induration, Walter delineates an example in a man of about thirty. Edward Sandifort represents the lacteals in an infant of a few weeks much thickened, approaching to varicose, with swelled mesenteric glands.** And Ludwig saw them in a similar state in a girl of seven, with induration of these glands. 6. Osseous Deposition. Callous hardness, with osseous matter, was seen in the coats of the lymphatics in the pelvis by Mascagni, Cruikshank, and Walter found them ossified, and of stony hard- ness. The thoracic duct was found filled with caseous or tyroma- tous matter by Poncy, all the neighbouring glands, both thoracic and mesenteric, being enlarged and tyromatous ;|f and with earthy * J. Gotti. Haasius de Vasia Cutis, &c. Absorbentibus. Leip. 1786. 1" Essai Medical sur les Vaisseaux Lymphatiques, &c. p. 56. + Dissertatio de Hydrope, &c. p. 23. § De Morbis Vasorum Absorbentium, p. 132. II Acta Acad. Medico-Chirurg. Militaris Vienneusis, Tome 1. p. 16. If Apud Bartholini Opuscula nova de vasis Lymphaticis, &c. Hafnite, 1670. ** Observation. Anatom. Pathologic. Lib. ii. cap. 8. ft Nouveau Reeueil D’Observations Chirurgieales Faites par M. Saviard. A. Maitre- Chirurgien de lTIotel Dieu ct Jeure a Paris. Paris, 1702. Obs. CXI. p. 500.