755 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE—PHLEBITIC ARTHROPYEMA. all the exquisite effects of this destroying process. In a patient under my care, in whom this accident was followed by secondary effects, the right shoulder-joint first and the knee-joint afterwards, became affect- ed with pain, heat, swelling, and finally, indications of the presence of fluid. The shoulder-joint got better, under the use of various means. But the knee continued swelled, immovable, with much pain, and giving indications of matter in its interior. Death took place soon after. The interior of the synovial membrane of the knee- joint was filled with purulent matter and coagulable lymph, the latter adhering to the membrane in masses, and connecting the opposing and corresponding parts of the membrane. The purulent matter was thick, opaque, yellow well formed matter. After re- moving most of it, the synovial membrane was brought into view, much reddened and vascular, especially at the marginal connections to the bones and enclosing capsule, where also it was thickened. Over the head of the tibia and the corresponding parts of the fe- moral condyles, it had begun to be destroyed by ulceration; and in several points the cartilage was exposed. At the attached margins also were irregular tubercular bony masses; but it was doubtful whether these were the effects of the recent disease or of some pre- vious orgasm. It has been maintained by some, that these purulent collections within the joints after venous inflammation are the results of the transport or conveyance of purulent matter by the veins into the inteiior of the joint, feuch they may be in certain cases. But in the present instance, and in others of the same kind, which I have observed, the collection was preceded and followed by all the usual symptoms and effects of inflammation ; and I regard the lesion as an instance of inflammation affecting the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, in consequence of previous inflammation of a venous trunk. § 8. Hemorrhage of the synovial membranes is not very common but has nevertheless been observed. M. Pitet, in particular, saw m the knee-joint a collection of blood, which he thinks was exhaled rotn the articular synovial membrane.* When this effusion does take place it is an effect of previous injection of the capillaries of ae sac I have often thought that some of the bloody abscesses met with occasionally m the cellular tissue and in the neighbour- hood o tendons, depended on synovial sacs in which hemorrhage had followed chrome inflammation. This probably is the origin of * Bulletin de la Societe de Med. p. 222.