GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 572 cation becomes urgent. It must nevertheless be observed, that in many instances the margins of the glottis are occupied by an oede- matous or puffy swelling, similar to that which occasionally affects the eyelids, prepuce, and female labia,—from sero-albuminous in- filtration of the submucous filamentous tissue, and the effect of which is to diminish, or in some instances to obliterate, the aperture which regulates the admission of air into the trachea. The redness and swelling of the laryngeal membrane is occasionally more conspicu- ous at its posterior part than elsewhere; and the epiglottis is some- times swelled and thickened with injection of its membrane; but whatever variations the disease presents, its effect on the membrane of the glottis is uniform; and this aperture is either much contracted or completely obliterated. With redness and swelling, the laryngeal membrane is generally occupied by thick viscid mucus, which contributes by adhering to the margins of the glottis to obstruct the aperture. It is most abundant in the recesses called sacculi, where it assumes the appear- ance of purulent fluid. In some rare instances suppuration takes place with breach of surface; and purulent abscesses have been found between the thyroid or arytenoid cartilages, and their in- vesting membrane. Reddening of the tracheal membrane is a complication. Inflammation confined chiefly to the membrane of the epiglottis is described by Sir E. Horae ;* and this with the arytenoid affection, Dr M. Hall shows, is the effect of the accidental attempt to swallow boiling water, f Of laryngeal inflammation three terminations may be enume- rated; Is A, resolution, which takes place some time between the 36th and 60th hour; 2e?, fatal suffocation, which may take place any time after the 30th hour; and, 3c?, a chronic state, with redness and thickening of the mucous membrane, sometimes with suppuration or ulceration of some part of the organ, which may be apprehended, if the disease continues without proving fatal for four revolutions of 24 hours. (8. Laryngia chronica.—The latter result is most usual aftei attacks so lenient as not to suffocate, but too severe to be completely resolved. The membrane then continues injected, thickened, and corrugated, rendering the individual hoarse and incapable of laryn- geal speech. The duplicatures called superior vocal chords in par- ticular, are irregularly thickened, partly by accumulation of blood within their vessels, partly by effusion of sero-albummous flui - Transactions of a Society, Vol. III. t Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. XI.