359 NERVOUS TISSUE. inflammation of a chronic character is very soon propagated to the membranes and the chord, and part of it is softened and disorgan- ized. The injury may not be sufficient, to extinguish life; and after some time, when the active part of the inflammatory process has subsided, part of the spinal marrow is contracted in size, and compressed by the new products; and this constitutes, according to the strict understanding of the term, the anatomical characters of atrophy. In admitting this application of the term, therefore, it ought to be distinctly understood, that the term atrophy desig- nates, not a primary lesion, but a lesion which is the effect of another previous action. Several cases of the kind are recorded by Ollivier and others. CHAPTER II. B. The Distributed Part of the Nervous System. Section I. nerve, nervous tissue.—(Nsusov,—Nervus,— Tissu Ncrveux, Systeme Nerveux.) The structure of the nerves has been examined with different degrees of accuracy and minuteness by a great number of anato- . mists. The more ancient authors, who wrote at a period when ob- I servation was much corrupted by fancy, and most of those who give descriptions in general systems, maybe without much injustice passed over in silence. It is sufficient to say, that some good facts are given in the works of Willis,* Yieussens,f Morgagni,} and Mayer ;§ that Prochaska,|| Pfeffinger,11 and the second Monro,** are the first who professedly wrote on the structure of the nerves; that the * Thomas Willis, Cerebri Anatome Nervorumque Deseriptio et Usus. Amsterdam, 1682. •f Raymundi Vieussens Neurographia Universalis. Lyon, 1684. t Adversaria Anatomica, 4to. Lugduni Bat. 1723. § J. C. Mayer Abhandlung vom Gehirn, Ruckenmark, und dem Ursprunge der Ner- ven. Berlin, 1779. 11 Georgii Prochaska de Structura Nervorum Tractatus Anatomieus. Viennre, 1779 and 1800, apud Op. Minora. H Jo. Pfeffinger, de Structura Nervorum. In Ludwig, Scriptorum Neurolog. * Select. Tom. I. ** Monro on the Structure and the Functions ot' the Nervous System. Edinburgh, j 1783. Folio.