1066 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. latter case, the melanotic deposit may either appear in this manner or it may be infiltrated into the substance of the organ. § 12. Ektopia. Displacement.—The heart is pushed to the right side in cases of empyema of the left pleura, with copious effu- sion. This, however, is the mere effect of the effusion ; and dis- appears when that is absorbed. This is not ektopia. This term is applied to those displacements of the heart, in which, from some deficiency in the formation of the enclosing parts, as the sternum, the ribs, the diaphragm, the heart is found in a situation different from its natural. The common point or character is, that the heart is out of the cardiac region ; and it may be either in that of the head, that of the chest, or that of the abdomen. The first is rare. The second and third, which are more common, have been distinguished by Fleischmann and Weese under the names of Ektopia Pectoralis and Ektopia Ventralis. Under the head of Ectopia Pectoralis are comprehended all those instances of displacement, in which the heart protrudes on the sur- face of the chest, either with deficiency of the sternum and ribs, or these remaining entire, at either extremity of the sternum. Under the head of Ektopia Ventralis are comprehended those instances in which, from deficiency of the diaphragm, the heart is protruded among the abdominal viscera. In the first case it is rare to find the heart protruded without deficiency of the sternum and ribs. It has been observed, however, by Weese in the sheep. More commonly the sternum is wanting, or it is divided by a fissure. With this other malformations are usually associated; for instance the foramen ovale open, the septum perforated, and the aorta connected with both ventricles. The pericardium is sometimes wanting; and in some instances the me- diastinum is deficient. Ektopia Ventralis may be attended either with integrity or more or less deficiency of the sternum and ribs. The prolapsed heart is sometimes surrounded by a membrane like that of a hernial sac. To these forms of Ektopia Breschet has added that in the region of the head, Ektopia Cephalica. For details I refer to the Commentary of Weese,* and the Me- moir of Breschet. f * De Cordis Ectopia Commcntatio Anatomico-Fathalogica. Auetore Carolo \\ oese, M. et Cli. D. Accedunt Tabulae Aenea; vi. Berolini, 1819. 4to. -|- Memoire sur FEctapie de l’Appareil de la Circulation, et particulierement sur celle du Coeur. Par G. Breschet, D. M. &e. Repertoire Generale, T, ii. p. 1. Paris, 1826. 6