ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 89 sewed by the former, the inflammatory attack which appeared suc- cessively in the femoral and humeral arteries appears to have been the consequence of previous chronic inflammation of these vessels; and consequently the case is not a pure example of idiopathic acute arteritis. In the case given by Meli, there is no reason to believe that the acute attack was preceded by chronic disease of the arteries ; and that probably is the least objectionable example of the disease. The symptoms during life were pain along the course of the large vessels; violent throbbing and beating in all the arteries of the ex- tremities which were felt like tense chords; much heat; great and intense fever, thirst, restlessness; and finally delirium and death. The arteries were found covered with lymph outside, thickened, and containing internally clots of blood and lymph ; and the tunics were roughened.* Inflammation less extensive but not less intense takes place in arteries about to be, or already affected with aneurism. In almost all cases of aneurism the arterial tunics are previously in a state of inflammation. The tunics are reddened and softened, though la- cerable ; sometimes ulceration takes place in various points; clots of blood and lymph are deposited ; and pain is felt in the site and along the course of the artery. When aneurismal enlargement has actually taken place, it is attended with manifest tokens of the presence of inflammation. Pain, generally severe and lasting, is felt along the course of the vessel and on the seat of the aneurismal dilatation. In cases of aneurism of the aorta or innominata, pain is felt proceeding upwards to the neck and head on the left side ; and though much of this is caused by pressure of the tumour on nerves, yet much also is caused by inflammation in the aneurismal tumour, and in the vessel or vessels proceeding from. They are found red, softened, thickened, lined with lymph and clots of blood, and presenting points of ulceration and steatomatous and osseous deposit, the effects of the chronic inflammation. 3. Chronic Inflammation. In persons who have long laboured under the constitutional effects of the syphilitic poison, or who have been repeatedly and permanently under the influence of mercury, especially in cold and variable climates, the’ arterial tissue is not unfrequently affected by a slow insidious process of inflammation. It is not easy to determine to what extent this may affect the inner membrane exclusively; for probably both suffer at the same time, and from the same causes; but the effects of the process differ in * On Acute Aortitis. By Norman Chevers, M. D. Guy’s Hospital Reports, Vol VI. p. 304. *