GENERAL ANI) PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY". 390 ing than that of the nerve, and of a consistence about tendinous, but not cartilaginous. By a small opening there escaped a limpid fluid similar to serum, and coagulating ; and when this was forced out by the elasticity of the external tunic, the volume of the tumour di- minished one-third. The external wall or neurilematic tunic of the tumour was hard and thicker than in the sound state of the nerve. At the middle of the tumour this capsule was expanded into a thin though consis- tent membrane. The inner surface of the capsule, when examin- ed by a lens, presented fine parallel fibres. The cavity formed within the neurilema was lined all over by a dense pulpy plate; leaving in the centre of the tumour an oblong cavity like that of an egg, in which was contained the sero-alburni- nous fluid. In the interior of the tumour, the pulp, differing from that in the sound state, presented a morbid aspect, well marked, was half an inch thick, presented no straight parallel fibres, but a mass of numerous small round bodies, firm and covered by an envelope, similar to fibres twisted in the spiral direction, aggregated, resembling those which Fontana recognized, by the aid of the microscope, in the medullary matter of the nerves, and in the cortical matter of the brain. In another cage recorded by Alexander, in which a very painful neuromatic tumour w&s extirpated by Reich from the right elbow of a gentleman of 44, in whom it had been growing since the eleventh year of his age ; though it was not so easy to ascertain the anato- mical characters, it was observed, that the nervous fibrils were en- larged, and filled with serous fluid at the place of the tumour ; that their neurilema was indurated and contained a fluid ; and that in this investment were seen firm tendinous fibres.* Cruveilhier represents a spheroidal tumour the size of a small nut, which was formed in the substance of the radial nerve, where it passes between the supinator longus and the brachiaeus anticus. The long supinator was thinned, and thrown outward by the tumour on which it was moulded. The substance of the nerve seemed in- terrupted at the site of the tumour ; yet most of its filaments were continuous though separated, and could be traced, some before and others behind the tumour. Several were lost in the fibrous cover ing; none traversed the tumour. Cruveilhier considers this a carci- nomatous tumour, and the effect of secondary cancerous infection.t If that view be correct, it should net be regarded as neuroma. T Livraison xxxv. * Qbservatio secunda.