GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. G02 shrivelling more or less considerable of the surface of the organ at’the corresponding point. These shrivelled spots are easily recognized. The pleura is drawn to one or two points in a series of wrinkles, imperfectly ra- diated ; the surface is perceptibly depressed ; and, when the part is touched, it is found to be solid, adherent, firm, and inelastic. The fourth and last sort of obliteration is that which is observed in bronchial tubes larger than those affected in the previous cases, and furnishing tubes to portions of the lung more or less consider- able. This sort of obliteration differs from the third in no respect unless in the greater number of bronchial tubes the obliteration of which it involves. It also produces peculiar forms of morbid struc- ture. This obliteration is observed in the bronchi at all points of the bronchial tree, from the branches issuing from the first bronchus, to those which may be divided by ordinary scissors. The obliteration is known as in the third case, by the abrupt termination of a large tube in a blind sac, and with ligamentous cords proceeding from it through the lung. The most common seat of these obliterations is the upper lobe of the lung and especially its apex, a fact of which it is necessary to be aware, in distinguishing these obliterated spots from alleged healed tubercular cavities. They have been found nevertheless in the lower lobe. Reynaud found the lesion twice in this situation. As to the state of the bronchi and their membrane in this lesion, it is variable. Sometimes, I believe very rarely, it is found in what is called perfect integrity, in that portion accessible to air. This is certainly sometimes the case. On the other hand, the membrane may be and often is red, rough, thickened, and covered with viscid opaque mucus. Occasionally the tube is much dilated immediately above the point of obliteration ; and though this dilatation may take place in bronchi of all sizes and in all points, yet it is most common in those in which obliteration affects large trunks, at a short dis- tance from their origin. In some instances the adjoining bronchi to one which has been obliterated, are all more or less dilated, and instead of forming cones gradually contracting, as in the healthy state, are either cylinders, or present actual dilated and enlarged portions. In these tubes the membrane is generally reddish, rough, and covered with opa*que puriform mucus.