205 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, &C. Glisson informs us that Jolyffe had, in 1652, imparted to him the knowledge of a set of vessels different from arteries and veins; and it appears from the testimony of Wharton, that Jolyffe had de- monstrated these vessels in 1650.* * * § In short, the discovery of lym- phatics, and the correction of some errors of Asellius, is ascribed to the English anatomist, not only by Wharton and Glisson, hut by Charleton, Plott, Wotton, and Boyle. The existence of these vessels, thus partially demonstrated, was afterwards more fully established by the researches of Bartholin, Pecquet, Bilsius, Nuck, the second Monro and Plaller. It is chiefly to the exertions of William Hunter and his pupils, Hew- son,f Sheldon,^ and Cruikshank§ in this country, and to those of Mascagni|| in Italy, that the anatomical world are indebted for the complete examination and history of this system of vessels. The lymphatic vessels consist, in the members, of two layers, a superficial and a deep-seated one. The first is situate in the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue, between the skin and the aponeurotic sheaths, and accompanies the subcutaneous veins, or ci’eeps in the intervals between them. A successful injection of these superficial lymphatics will show an extensive network of mercurial tubes sur- rounding the whole limb. The deep-seated layer of lymphatics is found chiefly in the in- terspaces between the muscles, and along the course of the arterial and venous trunks. In tracing both layers of lymphatics to the upper, fixed, or attached end of the members, we find they increase in volume, and diminish in number. At the connection of the members with the trunk, they are observed to pass through certain spheroidal or spherical bodies, termed lymphatic glands or gangli- ons. The lymphatics of the upper extremity, after passing through the glands of the arm-pit, terminate in trunks, which open into the subclavio-jugular veins, one on each side of the neck. Those of * Francisci Glissonii Anatomia Hepatis, Cap. xxxi. Thom® Wharton, Aclenographia, Cap. ii. p. 98. f Experimental Inquiries, Part the Second. By William Hewson, F. R. S. Lon- don, 1774, 8vo. Also the Works of William Ilewson^ F. R. S. Edited by George Gulliver, F. R. S. By Sydenham Society. London, 1846. + The History of the Absorbent System, &c. by John Sheldon, Surgeon, F.R.S., &c. London, 1784. Folio. § The Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels of the Human Body. By William Cruik- shank, London, 1786, 4to. The Second Edition, London, 1790. 11 Pauli Mascagni Vasorum Lymphaticorum Corporis Hurnani Historia et Ichno- graphia, folio, Paris, 1787. See also Prodromo, &c. Capitolo, i.