272 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. are not simple cylindrical fibres; but resemble hollow strings of pearls, the component parts of which are not in contact, but are connected by a canal for a small space; or they resemble tubes or cylindrical canals dilated at intervals into minute bladders. These bladders or ampitllulce of the tubes were known to Leeuwenhoek, who regarded them as globules of fat, which constituted the greatest part of the brain. The connecting canals also he has obscurely indicated. These tubes, uniformly straight, are generally parallel in direction, sometimes, however, crossing each other. Four times Ehrenberg recognised ramification in such individual canals; but anastomoses he never observed. These tubes vary in diameter from pL. to.^Jgpth part of one line. In the neighbourhood of the base of the brain and in the matter surrounding the ventricles, there are always seen between these bundles of nodulated or jointed tubes, individual tubes much thicker than the rest. In these thick tubes it is often possible to recognise in their walls an external and internal boundary; or they present, besides their two external boundary lines, other two inner lines, which enable the observer to distinguish the width of the area of the internal cavity of the tubes. These nodulated linear parts of the brain are varicose articulated tubes or canals. The large cerebral tubules of the cerebral matter converge to- wards and pass into those parts of the base of the brain, where the peripheral nerves arise. Some of the large jointed-tube-matter appears to terminate in or be connected with the cerebral cavities, in the walls of which it is well developed. Many jointed or vari- cose tubes pass into the spinal marrow, and thence immediately proceed to the spinal nerves. In the spinal marrow the arrangement now described is in some respects reversed. In the brain the most vascular and delicate structure is placed at the exterior ; while the least vascular, but perhaps more organised, viz. the varicose tubular structure, is placed at the interior. In the spinal chord the most vascular and delicate part lies in the centre; while it is covered externally by the coarse medullary matter. Both substances are quite like those in the brain. From the ex- ternal medullary matter, consisting of large varicose or moniliforin tubes, the spinal nerves immediately proceed; and these varicose or jointed tubes, as they emerge from the investing dura mater, assume suddenly the form of nerve-tubes, becoming thicker and