GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 874 were followed by gangrene of two or three fingers’ breadth, with little fever; and nevertheless few died. Several others I have seen, in which no manifest accidents followed; and nevertheless there died, namely, of the smallest wounds, principally those in whom fever began the third day after the infliction of the wound; hut in almost all those who so died, we found a purulent abscess in the substance of the liver.”* This insidiousness led Bertrandi to observe, that the writers by whom these instances of hepatic suppuration after injuries of the head are recorded, were unaware of the existence of such collec- tions in the liver before the body was inspected. Without dwelling longer on this subject, I only add, that it is not impossible that in several cases the operation of trepanning itself, by inducing inflammation of the bone, may have been a cause of hepatic suppuration. 5. Instances of purulent collection or collections within the liver, in consequence either of inflammation of the veins of the intestines, or of these veins opening at purulent surfaces, are often observed. Cruveilhier mentions a case in which a man of 60 had a protruded rectum replaced, after repeated and violent attempts, which caused much pain. He speedily became ill, with the usual symptoms indicating disease of the veins, and on the fifth day expired. Several small abscesses, superficial and deep-seated, were found within the liver. In other instances, the puriform collec- tions were formed after operations on the rectum, where the actual cautery was employed ; after the operation for the cure of Jistula ani; and after that for strangulated hernia, in which a portion of irreducible omentum underwent suppuration. It is not easy to say whether in these instances suppuration within the veins is always necessary ; or whether the veins merely transport the purulent matter to the liver. Inflammation is sel- dom found to extend far from the spot; and almost never into the interior of the large veins. It is probable that when hepatic abscess takes place after ulceration of the intestinal canal, it is rather to the transporting power of the veins than to their actual inflammation, that this sym-phenomenon is to be ascribed. Of twenty-nine instances of this conjunction given by Annesley, in twenty-one, or nearly three-fourths, were these ulcers more or * Epitome des Preceptes de Mcdccine et Chirurgie. Par Pierre Pigmy. A Itouen, 16.58. 12mo. Liv. iv. chap. ix. p. 368.