BRAIN. 323 that it gives rise to loss of memory, confusion of thought, and de- rangement of the mental faculties. It appears, indeed, to be a fre- quent cause of insanity, especially when permanent, without lucid interval; and if long continued, it may cause that complete obli- teration of the intellect which constitutes fatuity ; {dementia.) The cerebral arteries are generally found opaque, and affected with steatomatous deposition. (Marshall.) * From slight induration of a great part or the whole of the cere- bral mass, to considerable induration of particular regions, the transition is easy. According to the researches of M. Pinel the younger, who has examined the subject with particular attention, in the change from sound brain of natural consistence to that of final, compact, and apparently inorganic induration, two distinct stages may be recognized. a. From the observations of MM. Foville and Pinel-Grand- Charap, it results that in certain persons the exterior or peripheral part of the brain is liable to a state of capillary injection or chronic inflammation ; in other words, that the meningeal and encephalo- meningeal capillaries may become the seat of a process of injection partly chronic, partly intermittent, or variable, according to the state of the vascular system in general, and the operation of va- rious exciting causes. One of the effects of this encephalo-menin- geal injection is to tinge of a red colour more or less deep, the gray colour of the convoluted surface ; and while the injection produces more or less mental derangement, this red tint is connected almost invariably with furious and maniacal paroxysms. When it pro- ceeds to fatuity, albuminous deposits take place on the surface, or on the membranes of the brain ; and the gray substance becomes very pale, and softer or firmer than natural.* I have above said that the subacute or chronic cerebral inflam- mation which terminates in pulpy destruction is a frequent patho- logical cause of mental derangement. In general the disease is then of shorter duration, and terminates sooner either in convales- cence or in death. A more chronic form, however, is connected with this encephalo-meningeal congestion, the duration of which may vary from twelve or fifteen months to as many years. At the termination of these periods the cerebral substance is compact, re- markably white, appears void of blood-vessels and capillaries, is • Reeherclies sur lea Causes Physiques de l’Alienation mentulc. Par M. Pinel 1'ils, D. M. P. Journal de Physiologie, Toni. vi. p. 44. A Paris, 182C.