1052 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the heart are thickened, while the chambers are neither enlarged nor diminished in capacity. This is simple hypertrophy, in which the increase of matter may be regarded as applied from the inner surface outwards. In the second form, the walls of the chambers are thickened, while the capacity of these cavities is enlarged. This is excentric hypertrophy, in which, with the increase of matter from within out- wards, there is exerted in the same direction a dilating or dis- tending force. This corresponds with the active aneurism of Cor- visart. In the third form of the disorder, the thickening of the walls of the heart is combined with diminution in the capacity of the ven- tricles, as if the new matter had been added chiefly to the interior of the ventricle, or had been deposited, at least, from the exterior to the interior surface. This is, therefore, named concentric hyper- trophy. No doubt has ever been entertained as to the existence of the two first forms ; for instances of simple hypertrophy have been ob- served by Morgagni, Corvisart, and others, though they have not been carefully distinguished; and excentric hypertrophy is by far the most common lesion to which the heart is liable. It is diffe- rent with concentric hypertrophy, the existence of which has been called in question by Cruveilhier in France, and Dr Budd in this country, both of whom ascribe to the mode and circumstances in which death takes place, the appearance deemed characteristic of that lesion. Cruveilhier has observed in the bodies of those who had suffered death by decapitation and those cut off by violent death, the two phenomena of great contraction or even obliteration of the ven- tricle, and proportional thickness of the walls of the heart, and he infers, therefore, that these phenomena are the effect of this species of death, and regards the concentrically hypertrophied hearts of M. Bertin and Bouillaud as hearts more or less hypertrophied in per- sons overtaken by death in the full energy of contraction. He further argues, that, as it is always possible to open and dilate these hearts apparently without cavity, by introducing several fingers, these circumstances indicate more forcibly that the state of the heart is the effect of the last vital contractions.* Dr Budd, finding that in such hearts the ventricle becomes re- * Dictionnairc de Medecine, Art. Hypertrophic.