136 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The experiments ofWedemeyer and Dutrochet show that the capillary vessels are the seat of an action of intro-pulsion and ex- tro-pulsion of fluids, (endosmosis and exosmosis,') or a force by which fluids may be impelled inwardly into them, or in the opposite di- rection without them. The effects which the application of mechanical irritants, or chemical substances, as alcohol, acids, and alkalis, produced in the experiments of Hunter, Wilson Philip, Thomson, and Has- tings, have been supposed to demonstrate the irritable nature of the capillary vessels. The conclusion is illegitimate, in so far as the results of these experiments are open to several sources of fallacy. In some instances these effects are to be ascribed to in- cipient inflammation, in others to shrivelling of the capillary struc- ture, or crispation by chemical action, in others to actual coagula- tion of the blood of the capillaries; but none of them prove satis- factorily or precisely any peculiar properties in the vessels of which the capillary system is composed. Section II. The morbid deviations incident to the system of capillary vessels are of the utmost importance. As they are the main agents of most of the healthy processes of the animal body, so there are few morbid states, in which their operation is not primary, or in which they do not more or less partake. To enumerate these would form a long nosological list, since the diseases of every tissue depend chiefly, if not entirely, on its capillary system. It will be sufficient to consider the influence of the capillary vessels as an individual or isolated organic system in the production of morbid action. 1. Inflammation. The capillary vessels are believed to be the exclusive seat of the morbid process termed inflammation. No tis- sue, or no substance, rather, destitute of capillaries, is believed sus- ceptible of this process ; and its frequency and violence are justly estimated in proportion to the number of capillaries with which the tissue is supplied. Hair, nail, enamel of the tooth, and cuticle, do not undergo inflammation ; and their morbid states are to be as- cribed to disorder of the textures on which their existence and nu- trition depend. Filamentous tissue, on the other hand, mucous and serous membrane, and the substance of such organs as the lung, liver, &c. are very liable to various forms of inflammatory ac- tion, which is generally proportional to the predominance of red