192 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. seated collections of matter give rise to considerable oedema of the superior cellular membrane and skin. The operation of the several circumstances now mentioned, though well understood by many pathologists, has been happily illustrated by M. Bouillaud, who has shown that in many instances tumours in the neighbourhood of venous trunks compress them so much, as to produce obliteration of their canal. The interior of the vessel is then occupied with a clot of blood, solid, fibrinous, and more or less friable, manifestly produced by the blood being stop- ped in its course along the vein.* To obstruction of this descrip- tion M. Bouillaud traced several instances of partial dropsy. Of the influence of the second cause in producing dropsical ef- fusion, we have examples in that which results from enlargement of the right side of the heart, ossification and contraction of the mitral or semilunar valves, ossification of the coronary arteries, aneurism of the aorta or innominata, or even of the coeliac artery, all of which give rise to more or less serous effusion in the pleura, or a symp- tomatic dropsy of the chest. The third condition is perhaps the most common origin of the symptomatic or secondary dropsies. Whatever retards the free circulation of blood through the minute arteries and veins of any organ or texture will produce one or other of the following effects ; viz. inflammation, injection with effusion of red blood, or effusion of serous fluid from the exhalants, according to circumstances. In subjects where the structure of the parts is somewhat lax and yield- ing, the last will be the most likely result; and it may be regard- ed as the mere consequence of the mechanical obstruction which the blood encounters in its transit from the capillary vessels to the larger trunks. “ The compression of a vein,” it is judiciously re- marked by Hewson, “ may, by stopping the return of the blood, not only distend the small veins, but the small arteries; and the exhalants may be so dilated, or so stimulated as to secrete more fluid than they did naturally.”! It is in general, however, a re- mote consequence, and is observed to take place only after the cause of deranged circulation has subsisted for some time. Thus tumours, tubercles, and other foreign growths of the brain give rise to watery effusion within its ventricles. Hepatization and tu- * De l’obliteration <les veines et de son influence sur la formation des hydropisies partielles, Ac. Par M. Bouillaud. Interne des hopitaux civils do Paris.—Archives Ge- nerates de Medecine, Tome II. p. 180. •f- Experimental Inquiries, Part ii. Ac. p. 142.