20 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. shows that the latter is a particular substance, insoluble in water, hut susceptible of suspension in it to an extreme extent, and con- sisting of animal matter combined with peroxide of iron. It is distinguished by the name of zoohematine. Deprived of this, the globules are estimated by Bauer at 2g10 o °f an inch in diameter. The serum, with the taste and odour of the blood, rather alka- line, coagulates at 162° F. or on the addition of acids, nitrate of silver, or corrosive sublimate, and then resembles boiled white of egg. The coagulated matter is albumen ; and a little water con- taining soda and salts of soda may be separated. It is a remark- able difference between this albumen, which is suspended in the serum, and that which constitutes the clot, that while the former requires heat as a re-agent, the latter assumes the solid form spon- taneously. The proportion of serum to clot varies in different animals, in different individuals, and in different states of the system, healthy and morbid. ( In the human body a quantity of five ounces of blood usually fur- nishes about one ounce and two drachms, or one ounce and four drachms of serum. In inflammatory diseases the amount of the se- rum is usually increased. Thus in acute rheumatism and in pneu- monia, if the buffy coat be thick and strong, the serum afforded by five ounces amounts to one ounce and six drachms, or two ounces. In fever, again, the proportion of serum is diminished. Thus five ounces of blood will afford not more than one ounce, or only six drachms of serum. At advanced periods of the disease, for in- stance after the first eight days or towards the close of the first sep- tenary period, the serum afforded by five ounces is not more than six or four drachms; and in some instances it is about three drachms or two drachms, or not more than one and a half. In these circumstances the clot is less firm than usual, and is loose and flabby. In purpura most commonly no serum is separated; and the clot appears alone as a mass of gelatinised blood imperfectly coagulated. These phenomena depend on the degree of the coagulating power; and they may be taken to measure its force. Thus in the healthy state, and in certain inflammatory diseases, the coagulating power is greatest. In fever the coagulating power is weakened in proportion as the disease advances. And in purpura and at the close of fever the coagulating power is very nearly null. This, however, is merely the relation of the scrum to the clot,