688 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. maintained by Bordeu,* Bichat,f Meckel,} and Beclard,§ the last of whom, however, thinks they partake of ligamentous characters. Macerated they become soft, thick, and pulpy; and are finally re- solved into floceulent filamentous matter. In the course of decom- position in the dead subject they first lose their glistening aspect, then become covered by a foul dirty coating of viscid matter, which appears to exude from their surface; and eventually they are dis- solved into shreds. Immersion in boiling water renders them thick, firm, and somewhat crisp. When dried they become thin, clear, and transparent, and, if preserved from humidity or the attacks of animals, may remain long unchanged. The experiments of Hat- chett, Fourcroy, and Vauquelin, show that they contain gelatin and a little albumen ; but no precise information on their chemical com- position has yet been given. The principal character of the serous membranes is that of iso- lating the organs which they cover, and to the structure of which they are foreign or adventitious, and forming shut cavities, in which there is an incessant process of exhalation and absorption. In some instances they evidently contribute to facilitate the mutual motions of contiguous and corresponding parts and surfaces. From their free surfaces is secreted a fluid containing a very small portion of albumen, (Hewson,|| Bostock,^) which is greatly augmented during the state of disease. The mode of development of the pellucid membranes is not very well ascertained. The investigations regarding organogenesy by Oken, Meckel, and Tiedemann, to which I have occasion so fre- quently to allude, disclose facts which induce Meckel to hazard the opinion that some of them are not at all times shut sacs. I have some reason to doubt, however, whether the fact which he adduces for this purpose necessarily implies the open condition of the peri- cardium and the peritonaeum. In the case of the former the de- velopment of the heart proceeds from the basis generally, without affecting the integrity of the investing membrane. In the case of the latter there is more reason to believe, that at the navel at least the peritonaeum is either open, or is continuous with the vitellar membrane. * Recherches sur le Tissu Muqueux, sect. i. § i. Anat. Generate, Tome iv. p. 573. + Handbuch, B. i. § Elemens d’Anat. Gen. p. 228. || Experimental Inquiries, ii. chap. vii. Nicholson’s Journal, VoL xiv. p. 147, and Medico-Chirurg. Tr. Vol. iv.