533 SKIN. trials, both at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere, and when liquefied by a gentle heat. By the sulphuric acid it is har- dened and blackened; by the nitric acid its yellow colour is rendered more intense.* Whether the presence of these yellow adipocirous bodies is uniform in the molluscum I have had no subsequent means of ascer- taining. If they are, it may be reasonably conjectured, that their formation depends on some morbid or vitiated state of the sebaceous follicles. I have indeed no doubt that in the case referred to the small tumours consisted in lesion of the cutaneous follicles. i. Under the head of canker, lupus, {noli me tangere, wolf of Wiseman and others, dartre rongeante, Pinel and Alibert,) may be noticed a disease consisting in hard elevated tubercles set in the corion, from which they appear to grow. The name of noli me tangere is applied by Wiseman to a “ small round acuminated tubercle” without much pain, unless when “ touched, rubbed, or otherwise exasperated by topics.” Though most frequent on the face, it may occur on other parts. One of these, of a bluish colour, and looking like a vein, appears from the description to have been of the nature of erectile tissue. One example of bluish spherical tubercle I have seen in the person of a woman of about 65 years of age, otherwise healthy. It was situate on the side of the nose near the middle of the nasal bone. It appeared first in the form of a small red prominence less ithan a pea, but gradually shot up from the skin, so as in the course of twenty months or two years from its commencement, to project at least one-third of an inch from the surrounding skin.* It was then round or spherical, smooth, and even shining, and of a blue or light purple colour, which, on close examination, was derived from numerous minute vessels. It was connected to the skin by a neck, the base being narrower than the summit, but did not adhere to the bone. What was the ultimate fate of this person I did not learn; but no doubt can be entertained that if life were continued a sufficient time, the tubercle would terminate in destructive fun- gating ulceration. I have seen also many cases of ragged ulceration of the coun- tenance, and one or two in the incipient state before it spread to A good painting of the subject of this case was made by my late friend, Staff- Surgeon Schetky, and by him deposited in the pathological collection of Chatham Hospital.