GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 514 the surrounding portion of the skin is much indurated and inflamed, and seems to form a hard ring in the skin; and the whole process is attended with extreme pain, searing heat, and constitutional dis- tress. These phenomena are most distinctly seen in the rupia pro- mi nens and r. escharotica, and in a variety of the eruption, which I have witnessed in the persons of those who have been affected with the constitutional symptoms of syphilis, and who have for this been subjected to repeated courses of mercury; (rupia cachectica.) This is an example of inflammation with destruction of parts, either by ulcerative absorption, or by phagedenic ulceration. d. Cow-pox {vaccinia,') whether in the teat of the cow, or the skin of the human subject, consists in local inflammation of the outer surface of the corion, which, by causing the secretion of a thin semitransparent fluid, elevates the cuticle into a vesicle. At the same time, the surrounding skin is red, sore and hard {areola;) and the inflammatory process denoted by these signs causes suppu- ration of the corion, with some destruction of its substance, or what is termed ulceration. If the thin fluid secreted by the vaccine vesicle either in the teat of the cow, or in the skin of the human subject, be taken before it has become opaque or puriform, and applied to the surface of the human corion exposed by scratching, slight incision, or suitable abrasion of the cuticle, it is followed by local inflammation of the same characters as those of the original sore or vesicle, from which the morbid fluid is taken. The vaccine inflammation is naturally divided into two stages. 1. About the second or third day, or from fifty to seventy hours, after insertion of the fluid, the point of skin becomes red and slightly raised. This redness and elevation continue to increase, till the cuticle is gradually elevated about the fifth or sixth day into a flat pearl-coloured spot or vesicle, which is found to de- rive its appearance from the secretion of thin semitransparent fluid, formed during the inflammatory process of the corion. The figure of this spot or vesicle varies according to the manner in which the vaccine fluid has been applied to the part. If it is by a longitu- dinal incision or scratch, as is commonly done, the shape of the vesicle is oval; if it has been by longitudinal and transverse ones of nearly equal size, or by simple puncture, then it is more or less regularly circular; and if the scratches have been numerous and irregular in direction, or if the fluid has been applied irregularly, the shape of the vesicle is also irregular. From its first appearance