MORBID STATES OF TIIE HEART—PARTIAL ANEURISM. 1057 among writers on pathology. M. Breschet, regarding it as false consecutive aneurism of the heart, and, therefore, analogous to the false consecutive aneurism of the arteries, studies to illustrate its nature and origin by appealing to the history of the cases of rupture or laceration of the heart. Many instances of this lesion have been recorded, and the successive observations of Harvey, Lancisi, Ver- bruggen, Morgagni, Senac, Lieutaud, Morand, Portal, Corvisart, and recently of Ferrus, Laennec, Rostan, Blaud, Bayle, and the two MM. Rochoux, have furnished so much information on the circumstances, in which rupture is most likely to_take place, that we cannot expect to know much more on that" subject. It is known that these accidents, though they may occur in any part of the organ, are, nevertheless, by far the most common in the left ventricle, and especially at the apex. This circumstance is proba- bly to be ascribed at once to the greater thinness and weakness of the parietes at the apex, and to the strength and energy with which the left ventricle contracts. It is almost clear to demonstration, that, oi. any muscular organ, of which the greater part is thick and s rong m structure, and forcible in action, while one part is a little inner, the latter is most likely to give way during any action of the organ unusually forcible or violent. This will, of course, be much more likely to happen where either unusual resistance is presented, as m disease of the aortic valves, or where the action is morbidly increased from morbid though partial increase in the thickness of the parietes of the heart. M Breschet seems to think that the position of these lacerations may be employed to explain the origin of the false consecutive ™ in !! t ’ aml £ *"•* to *> important fact, that, in the ten cases winch he records, and most of which are abridged in the memoir referred to, in most the lesion was situate n ■ia.'s.tsi’rf1' the sort of lesion now described Tl ™1>M in tissue of the heart ,h , ’ 1,le» are 1 1 st, softening of the the inner membrane - ^3*“* "bresi nlceration of 5 ' ->d, rupture of the muscular fibres; and 3 x