MORBID STATES OF THE LUNGS.—TUBERCLES. 1025 portion thus affected is divided, it is observed to consist of various minute, gray-coloured, firm bodies or grains aggregated together, and which give the section a gray or light-yellow colour, and a granular aspect. There is no doubt that this change in the con- sistence and appearance of the lung is the effect of inflammation, acute, subacute, or chronic; but it is not quite certain that the pre- sence of this state is a necessary step in the formation of tubercles. This change may probably take place in any part of the lung; but the situations in which I have most usually seen it are the upper lobe near its apex, and sometimes the middle lobe of the right side. This has been observed by Baillie, and is described by Laennec, under the name of tubercular infiltration, and by Dr Home under the name of diffuse tubercle. In this form of the disorder, the morbid deposition does not be- gin in the air-cells exclusively, as in the first described, but affects all the elementary tissues of the lung by lobules, at once in one uni- form disorder; and it gives rise to extravasation of albuminous or tyromatous matter, over the whole space which it affects, but effused into the cells and filamentous tissue, and compressing and thereby obliteiating the air vesicles, the tubes, and the blood-vessels all at once. Often also the surrounding tissue of the lobule is converted into a soi t of membrane or capsule, so that the tyromatous deposit appears as it were encysted. The size which these masses acquire, varies fiom that of a small gooseberry to a large one or more When divided, besides the yellow or gray colour already mentioned, they present a much more uniform or homogeneous aspect than the other forms of tubercular deposit. The state of the surrounding lung, though often congested or reddened, varies much both in these different forms of deposition and also in different stages of its progress. In the early stao-e, or that of crudity, the substance of the lung around may be crepitat- ing, elastic, and compressible; and even in the advanced stage some observers have found the lung interposed and surrounding’ free from induration or much redness. Thus Baillie and Soemmer- ing found the substance of the lung surrounding considerable tu- bercular masses healthy ; and Laennec and Louis appear to have observed the same fact. Much more frequently, however, there are more or ess reddening, vascular congestion, and infiltration of serum into the substance of the lung; and in a considerable num- ber of cases 1 have observed pneumonic inflammation either in its hrst or in its second stage. 3 T