783 STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—KIDNEYS, are gradually elongated into very small intestinula cazcci or tubules, also transversely placed. These tubules, at first straight, are gra- dually curved, until their course becomes serpentine. They are, however, at all times separated from each other, and without trace of ramification. Rathke observed the first rudiment of kidneys on the sixth day, and the ureter in the form of a slender filament on the seventh day; while the Wolffian bodies are still of considerable size, and have extended the whole length of the keel on the fourth day.* It is further ascertained, that the WAlffian bodies already present the characteristic structure, namely, transverse tortuous intestinula, when the first traces of kidneys, like a mass of very tender grey substance, appears close to and behind the Wolffian bodies. It is the opinion of Rathke, that the substance of the kidneys is formed from the Wolffian bodies, because, on the sixth and seventh day of incubation, when these bodies are detached from the keel, the kidneys adhere, not to the keel, but to the Wolffian bodies’ The view of Muller is different. The Wolffian bodies, according to him, however, similar to the kidneys in Batrachoid reptiles, yet differ entirely in texture from the kidneys in other Amphibia and in Birds ; the first trace of uriniferous ducts being widely different from the intestinules of the Wolffian bodies. Muller further never could recognise, after very frequent observation, any internal and organic communication between these organs; the closed intesti- nules of the Wolffian bodies being at one part, and at another the uriniferous ducts, arranged in brilliant convolutions, also closed and whitish. Another circumstance which places this question out of all doubt is, that in Batrachoid Amphibia, the Wolffian bodies though at first sought in vain, Muller found in the upper part of the abdomen, where, at a great distance from the kidneys they are provided with their excretory duct, and consist also of minute caoa . rpm these facts Muller infers, that the Wolffian bodies have an intimate connection with the development of the organs of venera- tion, as Rathke first suspected. The substance of the kidneys, on the other hand, is formed from Zl rr T °r pnmordial matter> by an innate effort. When the mass of gray substance, situate at the margin and be- hind the upper part of the Wolffian body, is examined at its first ap pearance by the microscope, the surface is distinguished by a ver- * By the Carina or keel is meant the vertebral column, or what represents it.