428 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. its earth by acid, and long macerated in pure water, that it consists, both externally and internally, of reticular or cellular structure.* So far as I understand what idea this eminent anatomist attaches to the terms reticular and cellular, I doubt whether this opinion is better founded than any of the previous ones. After repeating his experiment of immersing in oil of turpentine, bone macerated in acid, I cannot perceive the reticular or cellular arrangement which Scarpa describes as demonstrable in bone. It must, I conceive, be the result of the mode of preparation. Recently bone has been submitted to microscopic examination by Mr Howship, who has been led to revive the opinion of the existence of minute longitu- dinal canals, as maintained by Lewenhoeck, Havers, and Reichel, but with Scarpa maintains the ultimate texture not to be laminated but reticulated.f Lastly, the existence of fibres and plates, which is admitted by Blumenbach, Soemmering, Bichat, and Meckel, ap- parently on insufficient grounds, is to be viewed as an appearance produced by the physical, and perhaps the chemical qualities of the proper animal organic matter of which bone consists. Though it does not demonstrate, it depends on, the intimate structure of this body. The minute structure or atomic constitution of bone is probably the same in all the pieces of the skeleton, and is varied only in mechanical arrangement. When a cylindrical bone is broken, and its surfaces are examined with a good magnifying glass; or when minute splinters are inspected in a powerful microscope, it appears to be a uniform substance without fibres, plates, or cells, penetrated everywhere by minute blood-vessels. Its fracture is uneven, pass- ing to splintery. In the recent state its colour is bluish-white ; but in advanced age the blue tinge disappears. Delicate injection, or feeding an animal with madder, shows the vascularity ot this sub- stance. To have a clearer and more accurate idea of the minute struc- ture of bone, it is requisite to break transversely a long bone, and examine its fractured surface by a good glass, or to examine in the same manner the transverse fracture of a long bone which has been burnt white in a charcoal fire. The broken surface presents a multitude of minute holes, generally round or oval, which are larger towards the medullary cavity, but become exceedingly mi- nute towards the outer surface of the bone. Of these minute holes * De Penitiori Ossium Structura, 4to. Lips. 1799. f Experiments and Observations, &c. Mcdico-Cbir. Trans. Vol. vi. p. 2t!7, and Micro- scopic Observations, &c. Vol, vii. p. 392, &c.