202 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. osseous matter is deposited either in the cyst, or with the sebaceous matter; a circumstance which has procured it from Plenck a se- parate place with the title of osteosteatoma* (Scheuzer, Hund- termarc, and Haller.) It is merely a variety of the steatom. The appearance of steatomatous cysts in bones and bony tumours, as seen by Kulm and Weidmann,f belongs to another place. v\. Lipoma. This name was first applied by Littre to a wen or cyst filled with soft matter possessing the usual properties of ani- mal fat.§ The matter of steatom, according to this surgeon, is either not, or imperfectly inflammable, by reason of its degenera- tion or commixture with some other animal secretion. The pro- priety of this distinction has been denied by Louis and others, who maintain that these tumours differ in nothing, unless perhaps in degree. It has been favoured, nevertheless, by Morgagni, and adopted by Plenck, Desault, Bichat, and various foreign surgeons, and is defended by Boyer, who represents the steatom as differing from lipoma, in the matter being white, firm, arid changed from its original character, and in possessing the tendency to degenerate into cancer.^ Plenck had previously distinguished the lipoma, by being destitute of cyst, a circumstance not required by Littre. Though thus admitted to differ, the anatomical character, as given by Morgagni, || and confirmed by Boyer, is in both nearly the same. A cyst containing unchanged fat, or granular adipose matter, in cells formed by the original fibres of the adipose mem- brane, according to Morgagni, or those of the filamentous tissue, according to Boyer. At the base or stalk in the case of pendulous steatoms, the cells are compressed, but loose in the body of the tumour. —one said to weigh sixty pounds. Papers in Haller’s Disputationes Chirurgic®, V ol. V. by Elsholz, Kell, and Friesse. Fred. Ruysch, Epist. ad Boerhaave. J. Palfyn. Anatomie du Corps Humain, B. ii. chap. ii. Two of great weight, one by Schroeck, from Morgagni in the Ephem. Nat. Curios. Cent. 5. Ob. 27, and others in the same work. In the Phil. Transactions, Memoires de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie, &c. Edinburgh Medical Essays, Vol. III. Medical Com. I. 190. Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. IX. J. P. Weidmann de Steatomatibus, 4to, Mpguntire, 1817. * Breslau Sammlungen, 1722, p. 319. Tittmani Dissert. Osteo-steatomatis, cas. rar. Halleri Opuscula Pathologica, Obs. 6. •j- Joan. Adami Kulm, Disputatio Medico-Chirurgica de Exostosi Steatomatode, &c. Haller, Vol. V. p. 653. Weidmann, p. 6, and Fig. 5. + Histoire de PAcademie Royale des Sciences, Anno 1709. Observat. Anatom. 3. § Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, Tome II. Chap. i. Art. 12. j| j)e Sedibus et Causis Morborum, Lib. ix. Epist. I. Art. 24 and 25, and Lib. v. Epist. lxviii. Art. 6 and 8.