914 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. and in this manner to have rendered the figure of the whole still more irregular. In size, the masses now described are generally large; that is from the size of an apple or orange, to three or four times that magnitude. The masses now described form the tubera circumscripta, and the tubera diffusa of Dr Farre, who first after Baillie gave, in 1812, a particular account of these growths. Those first described, or the small-sized tumours, are the tubera circumscripta; those last de- scribed are the tubera diffusa. For this distinction the reasons ap- pear not satisfactory. The tubera circumscripta, Dr Farre believed to be confined chiefly to the liver, while the tubera diffusa might affect not only the liver, but all other organs. We now know that though the former growth appears most commonly in the liver, yet it is not confined to that organ; and we know also that both are mere varieties of the same moi’bid deposition. The disease has been regarded and described as the same as the medullary sarkoma or fungus, and the hematoid fungus; and probably it is. But though it bears a close resemblance to this in the great rapidity of its growth, and its mode of invading the sub- stance of organs, it is in some respects different from this. The most probable view is, that the medullary fungus is the advanced stage of the enkephaloid tumour. The microscopical structure of enkeplialoma has been examined by Muller and Vogel, under the name of the medullary fungus. According to both, the tumour consists of nucleated cells, round, oval, caudate, varying in magnitude from part of a line to^. Some contained a nucleolus within a nucleus. By addition of vine- gar these cells become pale, and the nuclei and nucleoli are more distinctly brought into view.* Gluge states that enkeplialoma con- sists of clear serum, and very numerous white spherical globules, which show no nucleus, but a ragged undulating surface, or they are colourless and even. These globules are larger than pus-globules.f The fluid contains crystals. From the circumstance of enkephaloid tumours presenting these nucleated cells as other tissues, Muller infers that they are not heterologous growths. But this does not touch the question. The * Ucbcr den feinern Bau und der Formen der Krankhaften Geschwiilste von Dr Jo- hannes Muller in Zwei Lieferungen. Erste Lieferung. Berlin, 1838. Julii Vogel leones Ilistologia; Pathologic®. Tabula, vi. Ilistologiam Pathologicam Illustrantes. Lipsise, 1843. t Atlas des Pathologisehen Anatomie. Erste Lieferung. Jena, 1843.