CEREBRAL SEROUS MEMBRANE—INSANITY. itl thickened, steatomatous, or ossified,—a condition highly favourable for deranging the capillary circulation of the membranes or the in- closed organ. _ These results are important in enumerating the most uniform morbid appearances found in the cerebral membranes of the mani- acal. Their chief value, however, consists in the verification which they have since received from the researches of Neumann of Ber- lin, and Bayle and Calmeil of Paris. From the inquiries of the second of these authors especially, it appears almost established that a state of chronic inflammation of the cerebral membranes is inva- riably the cause of insanity. My limits do not permit me to detail the whole of the proofs on which this inference is founded; nor is it necessary, after collating the dissections of Greding, Chiarugi, Haslam, and Marshall. A short statement of the principal mor- bid changes recognized by M. Bayle will be sufficient to show how far the inference is justified by facts. ls£, The most constant anatomical character of this state of the cerebral membranes is injection, more or less intense and extensive, of the cellular vascular web of the pia mater. The vessels are loaded; the membrane is red or scarlet; and blood trickles from all parts on removing it from the brain. In other instances, its in- terstices are distended with serous fluid, which gives it a pale gray colour, and increases its volume and thickness. The arachnoid is reddish scarcely once in 16 or 20 cases. 2d, The arachnoid becomes opaque and thickened, especially in the convex centre of the hemispheres, at their mesial margin, and on their mutual surface. This thickness, which may be so great as to approach that of the pleura, the pericardium, the dura mater, or macerated parchment, M. Bayle ascribes not to albuminous deposi- tion on its surface, but to development of vessels, and extravasation of matter in its substance. 3d, The meningeal injection very generally terminates in serous effusion, either from the free surface of the arachnoid membrane in- to the subarachnoid tissue, or from the arachnoid of the choroid plexus, constituting effusion into the ventricles. 4:th, Albuminous exudation occurred in ^th of the subjects at the free surface of the arachnoid of the dura mater, covering its whole extent, confined to the convexity of one or both hemispheres, to the falx, or to the occipital region,—applied, but not adhering to the cerebral arachnoid.