349 brain- that, they have seen stony particles so early as the 7th year, and a substance very similar a few months after birth.* I am satisfied that I have seen in the pineal glands of young children, whose ages I could not ascertain, but who certainly did not exceed 9 or 10, small sabulous particles; hut my personal observation does not en- able me to say how far the statement of the Austrian anatomists as to earlier periods is correct. The conarium itself consists chiefly of firm reddish gray cerebral matter, at the basis or posterior end of which are two whitish threads, which proceed on each side to the optic thalamus, and form what are termed the •peduncles of the gland, from which they are separated.by a small linear depression. Behind the union of these peduncles, covered here by part of the choroid web, is placed inva- riably an irregular-shaped mass, varying in size from that of a small pin-head to a grain of hemp-seed. When seized by the for- ceps this is found to grate like sand or grains of stone; and when examined it actually consists of minute granules aggregated to- gether by membranous filaments of animal matter. This irregu- lar-shaped sandy mass is what is termed by Soemmering acervulus conarii. The granules in the centre are generally larger than those at the surface; and its irregular shape depends on the num- ber and size of the small superficial granules. They are generally yellow or citron-coloured, hard, rough, semitransparent, and dis- tinctly grating on a steel instrument. Besides the situation now mentioned,—the union of the pedun- cles,—sandy particles are occasionally found anterior to the pe- duncles close on the basis of the gland, or disseminated in its sub- stance. In infants before the 7th year, it is never found in the substance of the conarium, but generally in the plate which con- nects it to the thalami. The most ordinary place for it in adults is the pit between the conarium and its peduncles; and in aged subjects it may be found in all the three situations. It has been found in natives of every European nation almost, and in Africans. According to the analysis of Muller these stones contain calca- reous earth ; and from some experiments of Munch it appears that the lime is united with oxalic acid. Whatever be the quantity of this deposition, it is well ascertained that it exercises no influence on the cerebral functions. It is ne- vertheless difficult to imagine it to be a natural or healthy product. * De Penitiori Structura Cerebri, pp. 155—157.