BONE. 465 spina ventosa to be sharp humours penetrating to the bone and cor* roding it; and the approach of the disease to he indicated by pain in the joints, yet the matter of the disease to be seated in the hone. These ideas, which are derived entirely from external symptoms, were adopted by the surgeons of the 16th and 17th centuries, with- out question whether they were accordant with fact or not. Such were the doctrines of Joannes de Vigo in 1513, and of Pandolphi- nus a century later. Peter de Argellata, indeed, near the close ol the fifteenth cen- tury, gave a more definite notion of the distemper by saying, that it consisted in matter collected within the substance of a bone, either from weakness of assimilative power or weakness of the member, and there causing abscess, on opening which by incision the whole substance of the bone is found corrupted.*' About the beginning of the 17th century, it .appears to have been not unusual among anatomists and surgeons to apply the term spina ventosa to caries of the smaller spongy bones. Scultetus tells us, that while he was at Padua, studying medicine and practising surgery, he saw a young nobleman, who had been for several months labouring under oedematous swelling of the left hand, which ter- minated in ulcerated openings. The patient was then submitted to Spigelius, at that time professor of anatomy ; and be, finding, on introducing a probe, the bones bare, rough, and corrupted, imme- diately said that the disease wras spina ventosa. As Spigelius died in 1625, in his 47th year, this must have been about 1620. Pandolphinus, who was a surgeon at Fermi, published in 1614 a treatise on the disease, which was by Mercklin, about 60 years after, thought worthy of a learned and elaborate commentary.-}- The commentary is now more valuable than the text. Marcus Aurelius Severinus adopted (1629) partly the notions of de Argellata, partly those of Pandolphinus, and modified the doc- trine by views of his own. While he teaches that spina ventosa consists in abscess within the substance of the bone, he adds that it takes place chiefly if not solely in children, and is mostly found in the joints and ends of bones, and in bones of spongy cancellated * Petri de Argellata Chirurgia. Venetiis, 1400. Lib. V. Tract, xxii. Cap. 2. "t" Ventositas spin® est ossis corruptio cum partis tumore ac intemperie, ab liumore corrumpente procedens.” Josephi Pandolphini a Monte Martiano Medici ac Philo- sophi Tractatus de Ventositatis Spin® saevissimo Morbo. Rcvisus, corroctus et anno- tationibus novisque turn proprii turn alienis observation^, illustratus a D. Gcorgio Abrahamo Mercklino jun. Med. Noriberg®. Noribergre, 1674, 12mo. Cap. 111. G nr o