PATHOLOGY OF METASTATIC ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. 867 Moic commonly this produces either laceration, with hemorrhage, 01 it gives rise to inflammation of the hepatic peritoneum, which is then found to have formed adhesive connection with the diaphragm, with the internal surface of the hypochondriac region, or with the stomach, colon, duodenum, or kidney. Lentin re- cords one case from external violence.* Bretin mentions another which he ascribes to this cause.f And two cases are recorded by M. Petit the younger, (Case 3d, the kick of a horse; Case 4th, a contusion on the epigastric region)4 Yet it is evidently not frequent. mong sixty cases, collected in tabular form from different soui ces by Di Budd, in one only, a case recorded by Andral, could the disease be traced to a blow. In this case'were two abscesses on the convex surface; and in all probability they were collections of purulent matter between the hepatic and hypochon- driac peritoneum. 2. From the irritation of internal objects the disease is more common. Thus cases are recorded from the presence of biliary conm etions.§ In general, the presence of these bodies causes, first, flammation and ulceration of the gall-bladder and gall-ducts, and then of the hepatic substance. One of the most pointed cases 18 glVe,n ?? GeorSe Pallet, of Bolton-le-Moors A clergy- man who had been ill with general bad health, accompanied with of ei!htXCe T Pam m the epiSastric region>died after the course e ght years. Inspection disclosed an ulcerated opening through the coats of the gall-bladder, communicating with an abscess benealh £— ‘"'Jr TK l"eT’ ““*«*•* * ou^s o“ , "L , , n ulceratl™ “ised by the irritation of a mo- erateiy-sBed gall-stone wind] was found near the opening, but still ' 'ln Sall-l)ladder. The pancreas contained in a cyst a oall stone about three-quarters of one inch in diameter, and which musi have ulcerated its way into that gland at some period anterior as no recent traces of inflammation or suppuration were observed |i 3 and 4. Hepatic abscess after venous inflammation s mlh more frequent. In !6 cases which fell under the observation „f * Beobachtungen Einegcr Kranken, p. 04. "f Journal de Medecine, Tom. lxv. p. 546 * frireS de rAcademie de Chirurgie. ' Tome ii. p 69 § Ephemendes Natune Curios. Dec. I. Ann. I. Obs. 66-' rounder in Journal de Medecine, Tome xlv II Medecine a Paris, No. 32. art. ix. London, 1841. d Sur£lcaI Association. Vol. Obs. 105. IX.