STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—SALIVARY GLANDS. 7 7 0 pale-red, like blood-globules. These epithelial cells are believed to be detached from time to time in the form of scales. Section IT. THE STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS. The previous observations are general. It is requisite now to advert shortly to the structure of individual glands. This struc- ture is best understood by tracing it in the embryo. § I. THE SALIVARY GLANDS. As an example we may take the parotid. When the parotid gland is examined in the embryo of the sheep or the ox, it appears that it is developed or formed by a species of progressive ramification from the mucous membrane of the mouth. The excretory duct, in short, which is first formed, is a prolonga- tion of the mucous membrane of the mouth. It appears at an early period in the form of a whitish semitranslucent canal, extending in an arched curvature towards the ear, dividing into several very short branches scarcely smaller than the trunk. These branches ter-, minate in a blind or vesicular close cavity, slightly swelling ; and this disposition is retained throughout the whole period of the formation of the gland. This branchy arrangement is well distinguished in the midst of a pellucid jelly-like matter, which was regarded by Rathke as primordial, or the blastema. Afterwards this jelly-like matter becomes opaque, and is divided into roundish flattened lo- bules. These dilated vesiculce or ampullulce form the ultimate gra- nules or elementary parts of the gland. The arrangement of the twigs and branches is the following. The excretory duct is divided into long whitish canals. From these proceed long lateral branches scarcely smaller than the trunks. Each of these goes to a lobule and sends branches into it; in such manner, however, that the twigs then arising are scarcely smaller than the trunks. These twigs again send out new stalks, which all terminate in large rounded bladders or vesiculce. All the canals are white, even to the extreme tips of the twigs, and they wind about in the same plane of flattened lobules, pre- senting under the microscope an interesting object. It is further to be remembered that this ramification is only lateral, that is from each side or margin of the duct and branches,