NERVOUS TISSUE. 391 The gangliophorous or organic nerves, as well as those of animal life, are liable to the formation of tumours. Cruveilhier represents in the cervical ganglions of the great sympathetic oblong spheioida tumours of fibrous character, which had been formed in these gung lions. These tumours he considers as instances of the fibrous de- velopment with hypertrophy ; a statement from which little is to be learned.* It is certain that the ganglions are much enlarged, and that their substance is indurated; that these swellings are contained within a tumour or capsule of some thickness and firmness; and that the substance enclosed presents a fibrous arrangement, yet with some remains of the original matter of the ganglion. They seem, indeed, to be examples of neuroma. On the whole, it seems probable that the neuromatic tumour is not in all cases the same; that sometimes it is the result of sero-albumi- nous fluid effused interstitially in the texture of the nerve at one point in consequence of chronic inflammation, and afterwards coa- gulating ; that sometimes, from the operation of the same cause, a cavity or cavities are formed, containing sero-albuminous fluid un- coagulated ; that the nervous fibrils are seldom destroyed, but are often separated and stretched, irritated, and compressed; and that never in the proper neuroma is new or heterologous matter deposited. B. Neuromation, (Nsugo/xar/ov.) (Subcutaneous tubercle of Mr Wood.) By this name may be distinguished those pisiform tumours or hard tubercles which form beneath the skin, and of which I had already occasion to speak when enumerating the morbid states of the filamentous tissue. I then had occasion to remark, that there is strong reason for thinking that this painful disease consists in the hard body being seated in some of the nervous twigs beneath the skin. I am now to advance such evidence as may show, that little doubt can be entertained that this is the true pathology of the sub- cutaneous tubercle. Valsalva had early observed an instance of a small hard tumour at the ankle of a lady, in whom it continued from the 16th year, and gave rise to pain so intense, that she would herself have at- tempted extirpation, had she not been prevented by her domestics. It was removed and the pain returned no n\ore. Hard, painful, pisiform tumours beneath the skin are next men- tioned by Gheselden, who met with three cases in which he employ- ed excision, without being aware that they might be seated in the nerves or their coverings.f The next recorded case is that given by * Livraison I. Planche iiiicmc. t Anatomy of the Human Body. By William Cheselden, p. 13C.