GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 786 be 0-00025, or of one Paris inch, then they are seven times smaller, or the ducts are seven times larger. In Mammalia, the following are the most important facts to be known in the development and structure of the kidneys. In the embryo of Mammalia as well as of Birds, Wolffian bo- dies are observed; and as they are largest in the earliest period of embryal life, they have by Dzondi and others been mistaken for kidneys. They consist, as in birds, of very slender closed intesti- nula. In the younger embryos they are larger than the kidneys, and then chiefly simulate these organs; afterwards they are con- founded with the testicles, being lower in situation and of the same size as the kidneys, so that it is difficult to distinguish between the three organs. They differ from the kidneys in Mammalia in being covered by an external envelope, on removing which the intestinula protrude, arranged transversely. The kidneys are rounded. In the sheep they present vessels shooting from the notch or umbilicus (hilus) towards the circumfe- rence in bundles, which are divaricated in arch-like folds and retort- ed, yet all terminate in large vesiculce pedunculated and hollowed. In almost all embryos of Mammalia, the kidneys consist of mul- tiplied lobules in which the same arrangement of pedunculated and closed tubes is presented and repeated in various forms. In some animals this multiplied division or lobulated form of the kidney is retained through life. In others, certainly the greater number, the kidney appears in the shape of one general organ ; but this is caused merely by its external appearance, or, to speak more accu- rately, by the arrangement of the cortical matter outside. In the human foetus the lobulated arrangement is manifest, and is in cer- tain instances continued after birth ; but in most instances the kid- ney appears like one undivided organ. This difference further is of use in illustrating the anatomy ol glandular organs in general. The lobulated or divided state is continued through life in certain animals, as the ox, the bear, the badger, and several of the cetacea, especially the porpoise. In these animals the kidneys consist not of one united mass, but of a number, more or less considerable, of separate bodies, each pre- senting and repeating the same internal structure. Thus in the ox the kidney consists of a series of sixteen or se- venteen lobules or separate parts, each of which presents the fol- lowing arrangement from the pelvis or common excretory cavity.