646 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. minished to the size of a turkey’s quill.* In the colon this inflam- matory induration is more frequent. It takes place chiefly in the sigmoid flexure, and in the connection with the rectum. Of the former instances are recorded by Haase, Christian Wincker, Lau- bius, Portal, and Baillie, and delineated by Mr Annesley; and in- deed it is no uncommon consequence of tropical dysentery. Of its occurrence in the latter situation, Willan records an excellent ex- ample ; and I may add, that I have seen several cases of it in per- sons who have returned to this country after severe or long-conti- nued dysentery. § 10. Membranous Exfoliation.—In some rare instances more or less of the intestinal mucous membrane has become completely dead, and been discharged like a foreign body. Of this mode of exfoliation of the mucous membrane of the ileum, occasionally with the muscular and peritoneal tunics, good examples are recorded by Monro second from Cullen,! Mr William Dougall,! Dr T. Sanden,§ and Mr John Bower.|| Dr Baillie records a case in which a large portion of the colic membrane was voided and Mr J. M. Bowman mentions one in which a portion of the colon and caecum with attached mesocolon are said to have been discharged.** This subject has been most fully examined by Dr William Thomson ; and to his Memoir I refer the reader, ff An effect of inflammation of the gastro-enteric membrane, as well as the tracheo-bronchial, is albuminous or sero-albuminous exudation. This was observed by M. Bretonneau in the oesopha- gus; by Baillie, Andral, Howship, Godman, and Villerme in the stomach; and by a considerable number of authors, in the colon. In all cases the formation of these membranous substances has been preceded and accompanied by marks of inflammatory action. In the cases of M. Bretonneau they were connected with tracheal and oesophageal inflammation.!! In that of Howship it was the con- sequence of swallowing boiling water ;§§ in the cases of Andral * Transact. Coll. Phys. Vol. iv. p. 16. f Essays, Physical and Literary, Vol. ii. p. 395. J Medical Comment. Vol. ix. p. 278. § Annals of Med. Vol. vi. p. 296. II lb. Vol. vii. p. 346. f Transactions of a Society, &c. Vol. ii. p. 144. ** Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. ix. p. 492. •ff Abstract of Cases in which a Portion of the Cylinder of the Intestinal Canal, comprising all its coats, has been discharged by stool. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xliv. p. 296. Edin. 1835. $$ lies Phlegmasies des Membranes Muqueuses. §§ Practical Remarks on Indigestion, &c. London, 1825.