BRAIN. 307 currence, and the hemorrhage is in general on the free surface ot the arachnoid membrane; in other words, within the arachnoid membrane. Collateral circumstances will here be available. 7. Apoplexia Neonatorufn. Among the cases of infants expelled from the womb lifeless, or in such a state that they soon cease to live, in a considerable number the appearances are the following. A layer of blood, mostly coagulated, but with some bloody serum oozing from it, is spread uniformly over the whole of the superior, anterior, posterior, and lateral surfaces of the hemispheres. A si- milar layer of blood is found extending over the laminated surface of the cerebellum, and less frequently, perhaps, over the base of the brain. Within each lateral ventricle, and sometimes within the third and fourth, are found clots of blood with bloody serum. At first sight, it might be thought that these infants had been born alive, and had died in consequence of violence inflicted on the head. This inference is not quite correct. Violence has been in some de- gree inflicted ; but it is the violence resulting from the efforts of the uterus in forcing a large head, or a wrong presentation through the pelvie outlet; and the infants were either not born alive, or vital ac- tion speedily ceased. Life was extinct before the head was expelled, in consequence of blood effused from the meningeal vessels into the subarachnoid tissue, all over the brain, and from the choroid plexus within the ventricles. The cause is most commonly protracted and tedious labour, during which the head is forcibly compressed against the pelvic bones; and the hemorrhage from the membranes takes place. This is the apoplexia neonatorum, or apoplexy of new-born in- fants, a lesion almost necessarily and invariably mortal. To me it appears to be the most frequent cause of still-births, as they are termed; for at least 17 instances in 20 that I have inspected, in the course of a long series of years, presented the appearances now spe- cified. To understand the true nature of this lesion is important in a medico-legal point of view ; for rash and ignorant persons have often inferred, that it was the effect of violence intentionally inflict- ed on the head of an infant born alive. Cruveilhier gives good il- lustrations of the lesion, and the history of several cases in proof of its true nature and origin.* He shows that all infants with this lesion are not still-born, but may die soon after birth; that it is impossible, in all cases, to determine the cause of death; that is, the cause of the hemorrhage; but that cases take place after pre- sent ation of the vertex, of the hips, of the chord; and after long Anatomic Patliologiquc, Livraison xv.