SEROUS MEMBRANE SERO-ALBUMINOUS EFFUSIONS. 711 vation of Pemberton. * Its reality, however, was first investigated and formally maintained by Grapengiesser of Gottingen,! y vUS of Philadelphia,:}: and was subsequently made the subject of muc ie- search and inquiry by Wells, § Blackall,|| G ramp ton, ^ an yre. The results of the inquiries thus instituted may be stated in tie o lowing manner. Though accumulation of fluid in the cavities of serous mem- branes depends on increased exhalation from the vessels of t lose membranes, that exhalation is not to be regarded merely as an in- creased form of the natural action, but is a process of morbid se- cretion, depending on a state of the blood-vessels, either identical with, or analogous to inflammation. The vessels of the membranes are numerous, enlarged, and in general injected. When they are not so, the stage of injection has passed, and been succeeded by that of exhalation. The presence of albuminous flakes in the el- fused fluid furnishes proofs of the same description. The mem- branes are more or less opaque and dull, and covered by shreds and patches of lymph in various spots; and fluid is effused into the subserous tissue. Thus, in several instances ol dropsical infil- tration, with effusion into the cavity of the pleura, 1 have found that membrane not only vascular, but coloured of a red-brown tint, opaque, void of its glistening aspect, and covered by patches of al- buminous exudation. The same is observed in ascites. One of the most decided examples is afforded by the inspection of Sir James Craig, well described by Dr Somerville.** The perito- naeum was found covered by lymph in various points, and lymphy flakes were found abundantly in the fluid. On the same point the dissections of Dr Crampton in the Transactions of the Dublin As- sociation afford unequivocal and satisfactory evidence. In most cases of this class, however, it will afterwards be shown, the kidneys are affected with granular degeneration. In the case of the cerebral membranes it is not quite so easy to obtain evidence. The arachnoid is averse, if I may use the term, * Abdominal Viscera, p. 12. “ Sometimes a resolution of the inflammation takes place from the throwing out of a fluid, when ascites is produced.” t De Hydropc. X Medical Inquiries and Observations. By B. Rush, M. D. Philad. 1805. Vol. ii. p. 159. § Transactions of a Society, Vol. iii. p. 107, 183, and 191. II Observations on the Nature and Cure of Dropsies. U Clinical Report on Dropsies. Transactions of Association, Vol. ii. ** Medico-Chir. 'l'r. Vol. v. p. 340, &e.