NERVOUS TISSUE. 377 mouth, and tongue largely ; and it is distributed extensively along with the minute arteries of the face. Of this arrangement the 1 e- sult is, that it is a nerve neither of vision, nor of hearing, of smell nor of taste, or deglutition nor of touch, or physiognomical expres- sion, exclusively, hut over the whole of these faculties and their proper organs exercises a general modulating power. It maintains between them a mutual consent or harmony of action, absolutely necessary to the due separate exercise of each and the conjoined ex- ercise of all. Lastly, by accompanying the arteries of the face, it regulates the circulation of that region, and may he the means of maintaining between the brain and the facial circulation those con- ditions and expressions which arise from various mental emotions; as paleness, blushing, indignation, the sense of joy, triumph, the sublime, and similar emotions. Not less peculiar is the seventh, the small sympathetic of Wins- low. Though mostly a motiferous nerve, yet it ministers to mo tions of a particular order. It is, however, as a nerve distributed to the skin of the face, a nerve contributing to, if not regulating animal sensation and involuntary motion. It is, in fact, as shown by Wrisberg, a double nerve, the large portion of which is devoted to the purposes of animal life, and the small one to those of organic life. It is a musculo-cutaneous nerve of the head and face. In proceeding further in explaining the respective functions of the nerves, it is requisite to keep in view not only their ganglio- phorous character and the reverse, but their position as anterior and as posterior nerves, and nerves consisting of anterior and pos- terior roots. The ninth pail’, (nervus glosso-phargngceus,) consists of two parts, one large, completing sensation to the root of the tongue and pha- rynx, the other smaller, moving the pharynx, and connected, not- withstanding, with the tenth pair, pneumogastric, and the great % sympathetic. The tenth pair, (nervus vagus,) or pneumogastric nerve, is chiefly a sensiferous nerve, regulating the sensations of the larynx, the oesophagus and stomach, and the lungs, and placing these organs in harmony as to function. One particularly, the recurrent branches, appear to be motiferous. All the other branches appear to regulate circulation and secretion. To the accessory nerve, or eleventh pair, seems to belong the function of placing the pulmonary and laryngeal divisions of the