GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 802 Lastly, A. Kolliker of Zurich maintains with Mr Bowman not only the connection of the renal ducts with the capsule of the Mal- pighian bodies, but also at the entrance of the.capsule and the con- tiguous portions of the renal ducts, or in the neck and orifice of the uriniferous tube, the existence of a ciliated epithelium with vigorous acting cil'a. According to this observer, whose observations were made on the kidneys of the embryo lizard, uriniferous ducts, measuring from Tfiff f° T5<5 diameter, consist of two layers. The outer is formed of a slender structureless membrane, which is easily distinguished by the addition of water, and is altogether a repetition of the outer coat of the renal ducts. The inner is a stratified epithelium, from xcoo t° toAs parts of one inch thick. The cells of which it con- sists are roundish, flat, , 0055 of one inch thick, l broad, with nuclei in two, three, or more layers arranged over each other. The inner layer is remarkable for distinctly developed ciliary pro- cesses, from lsGoo to X08oo °ne inch long, which, by their vigo- rous action, attract the attention of the most superficial observer, and furnish an interesting sight in transverse sections of the canal. The ciliated epithelium, so far as Kolliker saw, covers the whole length of the canal ; but it is wanting in the common excretory duct of the gland, and in the ends of the canals. These are the Malpighian bodies, the existence of which, in the primordial renal matter, has been established by Rathke’s observations on the de- velopment of the viper. Every Malpighian body which has a dia- meter of from to x§o of one inch, is a bladder or vesicula, which is placed immediately at the end of the renal duct, and is in free communication with the same. The structureless membrane of the ducts is peculiar to it; so also is the epithelium, only more slender, and is formed of one single layer, and is void of cilia. Within the Malpighian body is a cluster of capillary vessels, which enter and emerge at the origin of opposite sides of the canal, and, as it appears, are separated from the cavity of the renal duct or tubule by a layer of cells.* M. Kolliker further thinks that it may be owing to the mode of preparing the parts, that Reichert and Bidder did not observe the ciliary motions. If these parts are copiously sprinkled with water, * It does not very clearly appear, from this mode of expression, whether M. Kol- liker describes this partition from his own observation or from that of Bidder, by whom I have shown this partition was discovered.