FILAMENTOUS OR CELLULAR TISSUE. 47 reasons. Is/, It appears to occur chiefly where filamentous or cel- lular tissue is found; and when it occurs among muscles, or in the substance of organs, it appears still to he referable to the filamentous tissue, which enters into the composition of the texture, in which it appears. 2rf, The structure of this tumour is principally fila- mentous tissue condensed or modified by the local morbid action. Every instance of vascular sarcoma may be viewed as a new deve- lopement and hypertrophic augmentation of its proper substance in a particular point of the filamentous tissue. The tumour is always liberally supplied with blood from vessels which, if not more nu- merous, are greatly larger and more capacious than in the natural state ; and if this be not the cause of the unusual deposition of sub- stance, it must be regarded as the channel by which the additional matter is conveyed. It is also possible that the irritation resulting from the first effusion of blood, or other coagulable matter, which, according to Mr Abernethy, is the usual cause of tumours, may excite the vessels of the neighbouring parts so much as to cause their capacity to he enlarged, and to convey a more copious supply of blood. This cause of the great vascularity, and its influence in increasing the size of the tumour, are particularly insisted on by Mr John Bell, and afterwards by Air Abernethy. The vascular sarcoma is enclosed in a thin capsule, which is formed of filamentous tissue much condensed by the pressure of the enclosed tumour. It may occur in any part or organ of the hu- man body where filamentous tissue penetrates; but it is also found in the female breast, in the testicle of the male, and in the absor- bent glands of both sexes. When it occurs in the testicle the ves- sels are said to be numerous and small. When it affects the fe- male breast the vessels seem to be rather large than numerous, and the organization appears less complete. (Abernethy.) 9. Melanosis. The black deposite named Melanosis is often found in this tissue; and perhaps when it is said to occur in the interior of muscles, glands, and other tissues, it is in their filamen- tous substance that it is deposited. As it is, however, still more frequent in the adipose membrane, the points of its history deserv- ing notice shall be introduced under that head. 10. Tubercle. 1 am uncertain whether to this tissue should be referred every variety of the small painful bodies situate beneath the skin, so well described by Mr Wood.* Though situate, as de- * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. VIII. p. 83 and 429.