112 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. one of 57, one that of 60, and one the extraordinary length of 90 years. It appears, nevertheless, that all of the subjects of this lesion had been either exposed to cold, or were labouring under the effects of ca- tarrh, attended with symptoms of dyspnoea, constriction in the chest, sometimes pain and anxiety, with palpitation of unusual violence and severity; and amidst attacks of this nature almost all of them ex- pired. This shows what might a -priori be expected, that in persons with such a defect or lesion, life is held by a precarious and uncer- tain tenure. Among the ten cases recorded by me, in four the immediate cause of death was laceration of the heart or aorta; an event attributable to the impediment encountered by the blood in passing out of the left ventricle into the aortic arch. It is further singular that with so great an impediment to the transit of the circulating fluid, the lower extremities were well nourished: and in several of the cases the persons were strong and robust. Arteries may be involved in the diseases of mpscles, bones, and other parts, and in the progressive invasion of foreign or new pro- ductions. CHAPTER VI. vein, venous tissue, ( Vena—Tissu veneux.) Section I. Tiie structure of the tubular canals, termed veins, has been much less examined by anatomists than that of the arteries. Some incidental observations in the writings of Willis, Glass, and Clifton Wintringham, comprise all that was published regarding them pre- vious to the short account of Haller. Since that time they have been described with various degrees of minuteness and accuracy by John Hunter, Bichat, Magendie, Gordon, Marx,* and Meckel. In the following account the facts collected by these observers have been compared with the appearance and visible organization pre- sented by veins in different parts of the human body. The veins are membranous tubes extending between the right * Diatribe Anatomico-physiologico de structura atque vita venarum. Caroliruhre 1819.