744 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. brain; and it terminates gradually in the membrane, presenting its wonted character at the base of the organ. The dura mater of the opposite hemisphere is in general natural. In one spontaneous case, in which I found this thickening, the person during life was so addicted to the use of spirits, that he was rarely sober, or at least quite correct. He was in the practice of speaking aloud to himself in the streets, and had a habit of jerking his head to the side from time to time as he walked. He died'at last of symptoms of injury of the back and posteriors from a fall, and witli them were mingled symptoms of delirium tremens. Most commonly, nevertheless, this lesion is the result of external violence. In one well-marked case which fell under my own no- tice, and in which I carefully inspected the parts after death, the first exciting cause was a fall down stairs in a state of intoxication, in which the individual struck the head on the steps. He was car- ried home in a state of insensibility, and in that he continued for nine days. He then began to show signs of returning conscious- ness ; and began to take food and drink, and live a sort of vege- table existence. This state improved a little. But memory, judg- ment, and all the mental faculties were entirely gone. The patient recovered consciousness and a degree of sensibility, only to remain a paralytic idiot for life. This state continued between two and three years, when death ensued. The dura mater of the left hemisphere was then found very much thickened. The sub-arachnoid tissue was infiltrated with serous fluid to a very great amount. The convolutions were very much atrophied. About four ounces of serous fluid were contained with- in the ventricles, the cavities of which were dilated, and the walls extruded. The fornix was softened ; the septum lucidum entirely destroyed; and in its place was a large elliptical aperture, by which the ven- tricles communicated freely and directly with each other. Such are the effects of chronic inflammation continued through a long period before they prove fatal. ยง 3. Tyromatous deposition in round nodules also occurs in this membrane, and has been well represented by Ur Hooper in his 6th and 7th engravings. They possess all the characters of the usual tyromatous matter, and consist of whitish or gray opaque substance of the consistence of cheese, of different degrees of firmness, inclosed in a vascular capsule. Generally they grow from the arachnoid 3