553 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. number of minute prolongations, which are made to wave or move gently amidst the fluid ; but even a very powerful magnifying glass does not render them so distinct, as to determine whether they are round or flattened, whether they are solid or hollow, or whether they are ohtuse or acuminated. The shape and structure of these villosities are indeed imperfectly known. These piles, (villi, die zotten,) though seen by many anatomists, were first examined in 1721 by Helvetius, who represents them as cylindrical prominences in quadrupeds, but conical in the human subject.* * * § Their intimate structure, however, Lieberkuhn under- took first by microscopical observation to demonstrate. According to this observer, each villus receives a minute branch of a lacteal, arterial branches, a vein, and a nerve; and in each the lacteal branch is expanded into a minute sac or bladder (ampullula,vesicula,) like an egg, the capacity of which he estimates at ith of a cubic line, and in the apex of which may be seen by the microscope a minute opening.f Upon this sac the arterial branches are ramified to great delicacy, and terminate in minute veins, which then unite into one trunk; while its inner surface he represents as spongy and cellular. The space between the villi, which do not touch each other, he further represents to be occupied by the open ori- fices of follicles, so numerous that he counted eighty of them, where were eighteen villi; and both, he asserts, are covered by a thin but tenacious membrane similar to epidermis. Hewson, while he admits in each villus the ramification of mi- nute arteries and veins, denies the saccular expansion, and infers that the lacteals are ramified in the same manner as the blood-ves- sels, and that the whole constitute a broad flat body,} the spongy appearance of which he ascribes to the mutual ramification of the latter. With this in general Cruikshank agrees ;§ while Sheldon, who found the villi not only round and cylindrical as Hewson, but bulbous as Lieberkuhn, and even sabre-shaped, rather confirms the statements ot that anatomist.|| Mascagni and Soemmering agree- ing in the general fact of vascular and lacteal structure, seem to * Mem. de 1’Acad. des Sciences. 1721. t" U N. Lieberkuhn, M. D. &c. Dissertatio Anatomio-Physiologica de Fabrica ct Ac- ♦-ione villorum Intestinorum Tenuium Hominis. Lugduni Batavorum, 1745. 4to ; et cura J. Sheldon. Londini, 1782, § ii. iii. &c. + Experimental Inquiries, part ii. p. 175, chapter xii. ‘ § The Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels, &c. p. 58. 11 The History of the Absorbent System, p. 36 and 37.