brain. 251 The confusion and uncertainty which prevails on this pai t of ce- rebral anatomy, induced me to adopt a method which I find to be more certain in unfolding the objects in question, and which may be safely recommended to the practical anatomist. Let the brain be examined from below, and let the examination commence with the optic tracts. That the acceptation of this term may be definite, I observe that the optic nerves should be in accuracy counted from the commissure only. The cerebral extremity or origin, as it is named, of a nerve, should be reckoned from that point only at which it is quite free in its whole circumference from the organ. This happens to the optic nerves at the anterior part of the com- missure only ; for behind this body the longitudinal bands called tracts adhere by one side (the outer) to the cerebral substance. A narrow angular sinuosity, admitting the point of a small probe, is found at the inner or mesial edge of the tracts; but beyond this they adhere indissolubly. As they pursue their course backward and outward, they reach the limbs of the brain, the inferior sur- face of which they cross, still adhering by their outer edge, but more extensively. Here likewise they are sensibly broader than at their anterior end. When they have passed completely the limbs of the brain, at which they are about the breadth of three lines, they begin to pre- sent a linear furrow or depression, which extends in their long di- rection about one-half or three-fourths of an inch, and thus divides the tract into an outer and an inner limb. This depression, how- ever, does not divide the tract equally, but leaves the outer broader than the inner limb. It is insensibly terminated at the upper sur- face of the optic eminence or chamber; and its last part, (about three or four lines,) contemplated with care, will be found to sepa- rate two spheroidal eminences which are respective terminations of the outer and inner limbs of the tract. The outer of these emi- nences is the largest and most prominent, and is the body mention- ed by authors as the posterior tubercle of the optic chamber. It is the body which Santorini named the geniculate, (corpus quiddam gcniculaturn;)—an epithet for which it is not easy to account, un- less we suppose that his fancy had likened it to the appearance of a bent joint, especially that of the knee, to which, if viewed lateral- ly in connection with the tract, it bears some remote resemblance. It is broader, larger, and more convex than the inner eminence, and is evidently the chief origin of the optic tract. The eminence