460 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. is then deposited, with more or less regularity from its interior sur- face ; and after this has acquired a due degree of thickness, the vascularity and swelling of the periosteum gradually diminish, till the membrane is restored to its natural state. Whey, on the con- trary, the periosteum is injured or destroyed, regeneration is im- perfect or altogether deficient. (Weidmann.) In some instances also, in which necrosis affects one portion only of the internal sur- face of a cylindrical bone, reproduction appears not to be effected. The outer part of the bone then becomes soft, and at length carious, and forms apertures (foramina grandia, Troja), (cloacae, ' Weidmann,) similar to those in new osseous cases, through which a sequestrum is discharged. (Weidmann, p. 31.) In short, the doctrine of those who have maintained that the periosteum is the chief agent of reproduction, is that the old bone, or that which was first diseased and then mortified, has no concern in the formation of the new bone. It may be the periosteal vessels, or various vessels of the soft parts in general, they argue; but it cannot be the vessels of the bone, properly so called. This doctrine, though supported by the observations and experi- ments of a number of able observers, has nevertheless been strongly controverted, first by Ludwig and Palletta, and afterwards by Scarpa and Riclierand. Ludwig appears to have early maintained that the new soft mass, by which the loss of bone was to be supplied, grew or sprouted from the sound bone ;* and Palletta, from the facts of a case which he observed with great care in the year 1790, arrived at the con- clusion, that the growth of the new bone proceeds not from the pe- riosteum, which was in this case destroyed, but from the substance of the bone itself. In the case now adverted to, nekrosis of the left tibia was induced in the following manner. A man of 50 was ad- mitted into the hospital, on the 24th December 1789, for an ulcer of the leg, which progressively denuded the whole tibia, so that the posterior surface of the bone only was left covered by soft parts. A trihedral portion of the front of the tibia, five Paris inches long, became dead, and was ejected. After this, new flesh sprung from the surface thus exposed, and formed, according to the ac- count, a firm bony support, such, that after the lapse of eight months and a few days, the man could support his person on the limb. He was gradually recovering strength until September 1796, when he was destroyed by an attack of rose. * Adversaria Medico-Practica, Vol. III. Pars I. p. 62. Lip,site 1772.