NERVOUS TISSUE. 387 spinal connections of the nerves; that there it is followed by another irritation and by inflammation of the spinal marrow; and that the last is the cause of the tetanic symptoms. This further seems most pi o- bable when we consider that some time always elapses between the date of the infliction of the injury, and that of the development of the tetanic symptoms; that is to say, the establishment of the in- flammatory irritation of the spinal marrow. At the same time, to render this theory of the cause of tetanus complete, it would be requisite to inspect in the same manner cases in which fractures or other injuries of the lower extremities had been followed by tetanus. This I have not had opportunities of doing. Traumatic tetanus is almost invariably a fatal disease ; and the reason of this is, that it follows or is caused by a severe lesion of the spinal chord at parts essential to the continuance of life. 6. Tumours. A. (NeuromaoiOdier.) Tumours of varioussizeand structure have been found in nervous trunks. These may be either common to nerve with other tissues, or proper.* * * § Of the former an example is given in the encysted tumour (hygroma) which Chesel- denf found in the centre of the cubital (ulnar) nerve. Of that met with by Gooch in the axillary nerve, the account is not so distinct, j Sir Everard Home mentions a tumour removed from the middle of the right arm by John Hunter, and in which the musculo-cutaneous nerve was found imbedded, divided into two portions, each much flattened. § This tumour appears to have originated in the neurilem. In another instance Sir E. Home removed a tumour, in which one of the large nerves of the axillary plexus was encased. Lastly, Odier describes, under the name of neuroma, in the per- son of a member of his own family, an instance of tumour in the radial nerve, in which its component threads were separated from each other in the manner of a fan, or like the ribs of a melon, * It is singular to remark with how little precision pathological writers speak of these tumours. Odier compares the one mentioned by Cheselden to a firm one noticed by Gooch, and to the yellow-whitish tumour which he met in the radial nerve of a rela- tive. Meckel also refers to Cheselden’s case in speaking of tumours, considerably hard, roundish, yellow-whitish, of fibrous structure, and approaching to fibro-cartilage. The case of Cheselden should have been carefully distinguished from the tumours intended to exemplify this description. For that surgeon states specifically, that “ it was of the cystic kind, but contained a transparent jelly.” It was in truth an instance of hygroma, and, as I have stated in the text, it was common to the nervous and other tissues. t The Anatomy of the Human Body, p. 256. London, 1776 and 1764. 12th Edit. J Cases and Practical Remarks in Surgery, Vol. II. § Trans, of a Society, Ac. Vol. II. p. 152. An Account, Ac.