917 MELANOMA.—MELANOSIS OF THE LIVER. doubtful that in these parts it is deposited before it is formed in tbe liver. The melanotic deposit may, when forming in the liver, have been also previously deposited in organs still more remote, for in- stance, in the adipose tissue of the eyeball. Melanoma is in short a deposit which is first formed in some of the divisions of the adi- pose tissue, and then may be formed, to all appearance, in a secon- dary way, in one or more of the internal organs, most commonly the liver or the lungs. When melanosis takes place in the liver, it affects one of two forms ; first, either the form of black points which are deposited in the acini, or black semifluid or consistent masses, which may be tu- beriform, and may be or not contained witbin cysts. Melanosis, viewed as a morbid deposit, consists of a sort of frame-work, and a colouring matter or pigment. The frame-work or tissue is a fibrous structure arranged in the areolar manner, that is, forming areolae or interstices, of a pearly aspect, and which is probably allied to the fundamental structure of areolar cancer, only much softer. The pigment or colouring matter is of two sorts. It may be either as black as the ink of the cuttle-fish, or it may be of an um- ber or bistre-brown tint. The former is the most frequent. This Thenard regards as charcoal, and Barruel and Breschet as the colouring matter of the blood. According to the best analyses, those of Barruel, and Clarion, and Lassaigne, this colouring matter consists of albumen 15 per cent., fibrin 6 per cent., carbonaceous matter 31 per cent., oxide of iron If per cent., and the usual salts of the blood. These facts give a high degree of probability to the opinion promulgated by Breschet, that melanotic matter is blood extravasated and changed, with a large proportion of colouring matter. If this be correct, it seems that it is a mistake to regard melanosis as always a malignant or heterologous growth. The deposit, nevertheless, takes place under circumstances which scarcely permit us to call this in question. It may be that there is a simple or innocuous form of melanosis, and one associated with the carci- nomatous structure. When melanotic matter is deposited in the liver so as to present the solid form, it is usually in the acini; and then it gives the gland the aspect of a piece of syenite, or rather black micaceous rock, from tbe peculiar glistening aspect of the fundamental tissue. § 15. d. Dr John Gairdner and Mr Thomas M. Lee described in 1844 a species of hydatid, which, though perhaps noticed by