INFLUENCE OF DISEASE OF SPINAL CHORD. 945 fluence from the diseased gland through its nerves to those con- nected with the spinal chord. It may conversely be inferred, that in any morbid state of the spinal chord, the impaired influence of the nerves over the renal action allowing the urine to be secreted in the kidney in an alkaline state, gives rise to a new train of evils, by the irritation necessarily induced in the tubular part of the kid- ney and in the calycine membrane. The ammoniacal urine then irritates perhaps both the cortical and the tubular part of the glands, and must certainly irritate the calycine membrane, and is the cause of the inflammatory states which it often presents. On this head I refer the reader to the paper of Mr Stanley,* and to what I have in another place said under the section on Myelitis.f The prognosis in Nephritis is in general not favourable. But it is more favourable when the disorder is the result of external violence, than when it is the effect of any internal cause. In gouty and calculous patients, the prognosis is unfavourable, because it generally after one attack recurs several times, until it undermines the strength by renal or vesical calculus, or by the formation of renal abscess, or by total suppression (Ischuria renalis), causes speedy death. Renal abscess or fistula, though almost uniformly leading to death, is not necessarily a fatal disorder; but in whatever of the forms specified it appears, life is always maintained in a most un- comfortable and precarious condition. The least unfavourable is, where none of the unnatural communications or fistulas have taken place, and where the purulent matter has procured an outlet for itself through the ureter into the bladder, and thence been dis- charged externally. In some instances, recovery has been effected after this event had taken place. Forest mentions (lib. xxiv. obs. 37), the case of a priest, who, after discharging purulent urine for three months, and being reduced to the greatest emaciation, reco- vered under the use of proper regimen, consisting chiefly of milk. M. Chomel records a case from M. Meniere of the Hotel Dieu in which a similar recovery must have taken place. The right kidney was shrunk into an irregular mass, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, forming a species of membranous sac, consisting of the calyces’ pelvis, and ureter, containing about half an ounce of clear fluid, * 0n Irntatl0n of the Spinal Chord and its Nerves in Connection with Disease in the Kldncys. By Edward Stanley, F. R. S., &c. Medico-Chimrgical Transactions, xviii. P- 260. London, 1833. t Elements of Practice of Medicine, Vol. ii. p. 398. 3 o