SEROUS MEMBRANE. 6 91 ninx dura, dura mater), presents two surfaces, an outer or cranial, and an inner or cerebral. The outer surface is irregular, filamen- tous, and vascular ; and the substance of which it consists is dis- tinctly fibrous. The fibres, however, do not follow any uniform direction, but are interwoven irregularly. Maceration causes this membrane to swell and become separated into fibrous threads. It is well known that it is liberally supplied with blood-vessels, and that it is connected by these to the inner surface of the skull. No nerves or absorbents have been discovered in it. This outer or i cranial surface of the dura mater is manifestly of the nature of pe- riosteum. Its vessels may be traced into the inner table; it con- ' tributes to the formation of the cranial bones in the foetus; and i various facts show that it contributes to their nutrition during life. The inner or cerebral surface of this membrane is very smooth, uniformly polished, and shining ; and when examined in water, it ■■i appears to be formed of a very thin, transparent membrane, through , j which the cranial or outer surface and the fibrous structure of the i hard membrane may easily be recognized. This pellucid inner membrane, which is termed by Baillie the inner lamina, I shall af- ■j terwards show, is the exterior division of the arachnoid membrane. The dura mater is an extensive membrane, and lines not only the interior surface of the skull, but that of the whole vertebral column. Here indeed it undergoes some modification. The inner i surface of each vertebra has a proper periosteum continuous with ' the periosteum of the outer surface ; and from this issues a quan- tity of filamentous tissue, which penetrates directly a membranous ;.:anal, evidently of fibrous structure, (theca vertebralis,) tough and irm, but more delicate than the cranial dura mater. The dura nater in its course forms sundry prolongations ; for instance, the • arge crescentic one named the falx, the horizontal one termed jentorium, and the small crescentic one named falx minor or cere- elli. The thin, soft, or immediate and proper cerebral membrane, \oia mater, meninx tenuis,) presents in like manner two surfaces a nooth or cranial, which is exterior, a filamentous or cerebral, hich is interior and central. i The outer or smooth surface of the thin membrane, {pia mater,) is a glistening appearance; and if examined attentively it is und to be formed by a very thin transparent membrane, exactly mdar to that which forms the cerebral surface of the dura mater.