689 SEROUS MEMBRANE. In the foetus the serous membranes are so thin, that they are much more transparent than in the adult. In small animals also, they are more transparent than in large, and in cold-blooded ani- mals than in the mammiferous. Of some also the disposition va- ries at different periods. Thus the descent of the testicle, a pi o- cess which has been so well explained by Albinus, Haller, Wris- berg, and Langenbeck,—is necessarily attended with a remarkable change in the arrangement of that portion of peritonaeum which the gland impels before it. The above description applies chiefly to the general characters and properties of serous membranes. I have yet, however, to ad- vert to certain forms of this tissue, which, though similar in gene- ral characters, present too many peculiarities to be justly identified with them. The first which I notice as least different is the peri- cardium, or capsule of the heart; the second is the arachnoid mem- brane, which shall be examined with the cerebral envelopes. § 2. The capsule of the heart (pericardium) consists of two portions or layers, an outer or proper capsular, and an inner or lining di- vision. The outer or proper capsular part of the pericardium pos- sesses the characters of a fibrous membrane, of some density and considerable strength. When properly washed its colour is gray or grayish-white, and it appears to consist of very minute fibrous threads, which are arranged without any definite order. These fibres are most distinct at its lower margin, where it is connected to the circumference of the tendinous part of the diaphragm. In the young subject it is generally thin and translucent; in adult age or advanced life it is thicker and more opaque. This part of the pericardium is a mere investing membrane, which bounds the region containing the heart, but which extends no further. It embraces the origins of the large vessels above, adheres to the margins of the tendinous centre below, and is on each side con- nected with the pleura. When the pericardium is slit open, its inner surface has the ap- pearance of a transparent or serous membrane, through which the fibres of the outer or capsular part may be seen, and which has the usual glistening aspect of such membranes. It is difficult, however, to insulate it from the outer layer, unless by boiling, when it may be peeled off’ in minute shreds. Like the transparent membranes, this inner layer has neither beginning nor end, neither origin nor termination. After lining x x