935 SUPPURATION OF THE KIDNEY. That the great distension which in some cases takes place may be sufficient to separate and detach forcibly from each the indivi- dual component cones of the kidney, is a circumstance which 1 will not deny. But I must say that everything known regarding the effect of suppuration in this part of the kidney shows, that this is not a common result; and that the most frequent consequence by far is that which I have here represented it to be. It is quite im- possible to imagine the great changes produced by mere pressure and distension in the human body, without absolute destruction of the organization of parts, were it not the subject of daily observa- tion, aided by accurate inspection of the state of the parts. In some instances this purulent distension is confined to one or two infundibula, which do not readily communicate with the others; and in consequence the purulent matter contained within them does not escape into the other, hut, being incessantly increased, causes expansion and enlargement at one part of the gland. In other cases it is confined to the pelvis, and produces on that the same effect which it would elsewhere, but leaving the kidney for some time comparatively uninjured. The fluid contained may be purulent, sero-purulent, or sero- purulent mixed with urine, that is urino-purulent. In some of the cases described by Walter, the fluid is represented to have been clear and diaphanous. It is proper, however, to say, that Walter, who had seen several examples of this disorder from obstruction of the ureter by con- cretions, represents the whole kidney as so changed, that nothing- seemed to he left except the exterior membrane or capsule, which was so much extenuated by the pressure of the contained fluid, that the part which was previously a kidney, presented the appear- ance of an expanded bladder. This distension he ascribes solely to the accumulation of urine, which, not being allowed to pass by the ureter, stagnates in the pelvis and infundibula, and by compression upon their excreting and secreting parts and vessels, first impedes and then suspends the secretion and excretion of the gland. In instances of great distension he mentions, that not only is all the perinephral fat absorbed, but the exterior membrane itself m.*iy be transformed into an osseous capsule, as was exemplified in various preparations preserved in the collection of his father. The de- scription now mentioned is most applicable to that obstruction which aiises lrom the presence of a concretion in the pelvis or ureter.