422 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. fingers are completely bent. This cord is rounded in form; and its most prominent point is at the top of the articulation of the finger with the metacarpal hone supporting it. There this cord forms a sort of bridge. Little pain is felt in the course of this disease, which is confined entirely to the fascia, and in which the prominent feature is stiffness and inextensible incurvation of the fingers.* 3. Tyroma.—The tyromatous deposition in the tubercular form may take place in the periosteum. The tubercles, which in colour and physical qualities resemble tyromatous matter in other situa- tions, are minute, irregularly spheroidal, and occupy the substance of the membrane. Their presence gives rise to chronic inflamma- tion of the membrane, which becomes thick, spongy, and vascular, and is at length detached from the bone by effusion of purulent fluid; and their liquefaction eventually forms a bad suppuration. This is one of the forms of what is usually termed strumous disease of the bones. 4. Chondroma.—Cartilaginous induration of the white fibrous tissue is so common that it scarcely requires separate notice. The ligaments are often affected with this, especially in stiff' and anky- losed joints, and appear then to acquire the properties of genuine cartilage. This, which may be regarded as one of the effects of chronic inflammation, with long disease of the articular tissues, I conceive, is what is meant by inordinate rigidity of the ligaments, much dwelt on by practical authors. It never occurs, I am satis- fied, unless under the circumstances now mentioned. In the peri- osteum 1 have seen the same change resulting from the same causes. It takes place after compound fractures, occasionally after amputation, and, in short, in all circumstances in which the mem- brane is inflamed. 5. Ossification.—Partial or general conversion into bone, though not uncommon in the white fibrous system, is nevertheless restrict- ed in a peculiar manner. It is, for instance, much less frequent in ligament than in periosteum ; and in fascia it is scarcely known. Ossification in ligament commences at the point connected with the periosteum; and it is uncommon to observe it extend over the • Leyons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale Faites a l’Hotel Dieu de Paris. Pm M. le Baron Dupuytren, Chirurgien en Chef. Recueillies et Publiees par MM. le Doc teurs Brierre de Boismont et Marx, 2xiemc edit. Tome IV. Paris, 183.'). Artie e xi~ p. 473.