36 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. it may be seated at so great a depth that it is impossible to recog- nize its presence. In a short time, however, it may he felt by the practised finger. In most cases, even where there is much hard- ness, it is generally possible to predicate the presence of purulent matter. The tendency to advance to the surface is connected with a tendency in other parts of the purulent tumour to contract; and as the former process advances, the latter keeps pace with it, so that in general, when the tumour hursts or is opened, the extent of the bottom of the abscess has sensibly and considerably been dimi- nished. If inflammation of cellular tissue do not terminate in suppura- tion, nor is resolved, it terminates in effusion of lymph, with con- cretion or agglutination of its filaments through a space more or less extensive. This is known by slight swelling, hardness, and immobility of the part. The phenomena of inflammation in this tissue are best observed in deep wounds, which divide a conside- rable extent of it. If the wound be what is called simply incised, the constitution good, and the inflammation moderate, lymph is effused, and the cut edges are united by what was anciently named the first intention. This mode of union was termed by John Hun- ter adhesive inflammation, (p. 226,) and union by adhesion. It is not always, however, that the process is so simple. When the wound is extensive or complicated, and involves the cellular web of several different tissues, the lymph effused is inadequate to effect reunion at once; and another process termed granulation takes place. The basis of this indeed consists in exudation of lymph, which is effused in minute masses of no definite form, and which are soon penetrated by blood-vessels, and thereby become organized, (Hunter, p. 477.) Their surface becomes covered with more or less lymph, which, as they increase in size, causes them mutually to cohere ; and by the successive production, growth and union of these granular bodies, the divided surfaces are made even- tually to unite. The process of granulation in the filamentous tissue is accompanied with more or less suppuration ; but as the granulations coalesce, this is gradually diminished. 2. The second form of inflammation occurring in filamentous tissue is when it spreads, or is diffused along the membrane, or through its substance. John Hunter was aware of the tendency which the inflammatory process in certain circumstances manifests to spread; and referring it to a sympathetic disposition in the sur- rounding parts, suggests an illustration in the opposite qualities of