96 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. matous deposition is to be viewed as one of the effects of chronic inflammation, either in the inner or the proper tunic, or in both. 6. Steatomatous Deposition, either alone, or with calcareous patch- es, is often found between the inner surface of the proper membrane, and the outer surface of the internal one. Whether these depo- sits invariably derive their origin from the former or from the lat- ter of these tissues, is not easy to say. In many instances they ap- pear to be produced rather by the proper arterial tunic. They occur in various forms; but two may be particularly mentioned. In the first, small irregular patches of yellowish or fawn-coloured matter like wax appear on the inner surface of the proper coat. As the process of deposition advances, these become thicker and broad- er. They coalesce, and sensibly raise the outer filamentous coat; while, by their prominence interiorly, they diminish the capacity of the arterial tube. At the same time the inner membrane becomes irregular, opaque, and shrivelled; and the connection with the pro- per tunic being destroyed, it is detached with great facility.* This deposition constitutes the steatomatous degeneration of Pro- fessor Scarpa and other authors. The name is not well chosen, for the substance deposited is not adipose, but rather like crude bees-wax. It. was applied, however, by Stentzel,f the original wri- ter on this subject, and it is unnecessary to change it, when its ex- act import is understood. Though it may occur probably in any part of the arterial tubes, it takes place most frequently at the bi- furcations of the arteries. It invariably commences in this parti- cular spot of the vessel; and when it occupies any extent of the tube, it will be found to have begun at the bifurcation, and spread thence along the vessel. Thus I have seen this deposition confined to the point common to the common carotid, and its external and internal branches, and this in both sides in the same subject I have seen it in another person at the same part of the carotids, and at the point common to the internal carotid and the sylvian artery. Lastly, in another instance I have found it affecting at once in the same subject the arch of the aorta, where it gives off the innominata and left subclavian artery; the descending aorta, where it gives off the coeliac and superior mesenteric, including the beginning of these vessels; and the coeliac, when it divides into its gastric, hepatic, and splenic branches. * Morgagni Epist. XXIII. Art. iv. vi. XLV. Art. xxiii. &c. + Christiani God. Stcntzel de Steatomatibus Aortic. Haller Disput. ad Morborum Historian!, &c. Tonio II. p. 527. Art. lxv.