ARTERY, ARTERIAL TISSUE. 101 diuni calibre,- or those of the fourth and fifth orders, as the iliac, the carotids, the brachial, the femoral, the tibial; and in vessels still smaller, or those of the sixth order, as the occipital, auricular, radial, ulnar; in the palmar and plantar arches; and in the ophthalmic artery. Sometimes in arterial varix, amidst a very dilated flexuosity of the artery, we observe a sudden contraction, and for some inches of its length, the vessel preserves its natural volume. Arterial varix is distinguished from aneurism by anastomosis, by the irregularity of the dilatations which it presents. It is distinguished from venous varix in the living body by the pulsations of the dilated vessels. A state quite similar to that of cirsoid aneurism is observed in old varicose aneurism, or aneurism resulting from the simultane- ous lesion of an artery and of a vein in the same point by the same instrument, from the interchange of the blood of the two vessels, but especially from the passage of the venous blood into the artery. Next to the retardation in the artery of the blood below the wound, the dilatation of the whole of that part of the external sys- tem, the weakening of the pulsations, the diminution of tempera- ture in the parts below the opening of communication between the two orders of vessels, the violet hue of the same parts ; lastly, the less brilliant colour of the blood in the lower end of the artery when it is examined before the application of ligatures, and the entrance of the venous blood into the artery during the diastole of this vessel, are the circumstances which, according to Breschet, leave no doubt on the nature of the disease and its causes, viz. in- terchange of the two kinds of blood. This analogical circumstance under the relation of the organic change in the arterial varix and old varicose aneurism, leads na- turally to the idea, that in arterial varix there may be a communi- cation between the two orders of vessels and the passage of a cer- tain quantity ot the venous blood into the dilated and varicose ar- tery. A case by Pearson would lead to the same inference. 9. Wounds and their consequences. An artery may be punctured, perforated, cut longitudinally, divided partially or entirely across, or torn completely asunder. In the fiist tluee cases the blood which escapes is injected into the filamentous sheath, and coagulating, prevents further effusion from the vessel. In a few hours the edges of the wound inflame, and, pouring out lymph, are united by adhesion. In the case of