180 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the cohesion of tissues, and thereby causing softening. It seems to be in fever a mortal lesion. 2. Splenia ; Splenitis; Lienia. The spleen appears to be liable to four forms of inflammatory action; Is#, proper inflammation, ter- minating in resolution or suppuration; 2d, suppurative inflamma- tion ; 3d, simple enlargement from vascular distension; and, 4th, enlargement, with induration of its tissue. Simple inflammation, though not common, does take place. In two cases of inflamed spleen examined by Dr William Hunter, where the inflammation had advanced to suppuration, the patients could not define accurately the seat of the pain, which seemed to travel over the general cavity of the abdomen. In another case, in which Anthony de Haen found the spleen distended with a large quantity of thick white purulent matter, the symptoms had, during the inflammatory stage, been ascribed to pleurisy. Both Schmidt, Heusinger, and Grottanelli record, in like man- ner, instances in which suppuration had taken place in the spleen without the production of any manifest symptom or local uneasi- ness, sufficient to lead the circumstance to be suspected, except ge- neral bad health and wasting. A remarkable case of this kind is recorded by Dr Abercrombie, in which the patient, after slight ca- tarrhal symptoms, pined away without distinct local uneasiness for six months, and died wasted and weakened, latterly with diarrhoea of two days’ standing; and upon inspection the spleen contained se- veral ounces of purulent matter. Similar instances of purulent collections in the spleen, where no indication of previous disorder was afforded, have come under my notice in the course of inspect- ing bodies at tbe Royal Infirmary. These facts show clearly that suppuration of the spleen may take place without being attended with evident or urgent external symp- toms. In this case it may become a question whether the suppu- ration is tbe effect of acute inflammation, or rather of a peculiar chronic suppurative action,—connected probably with that conve- nient and ill-defined abstraction, the strumous diathesis. It must not be imagined, nevertheless, that no symptoms are produced by this disorder. There are always wasting or pining, considerable weakness, sometimes a thin unhealthy look, sometimes slight dys- peptic symptoms, and sometimes, though more rarely, a sense of uneasy fulness deep iu the left hypochondriac region. The most perplexing part of the semiography and symptomatology is this, that