310 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the side of the body opposite to that of the brain which has’sus- tained the lesion. One of the most frequent effects of cerebral he- morrhage and its consequences, indeed, is palsy of the hemiplegic form ; and in the brains of such persons as have laboured under this disease, either a broken down and softened spot, or one or more hemorrhagic cavities or cysts are found after death, (Wepfer, Willis, Morgagni, John Hunter, Baillie, Wilson, Abernethy, Ro- choux, Serres, Lerminier, Tacheron, Abercrombie.) The general accuracy of these conclusions is confirmed not only by the necrosco- pic appearances of the brains of those who die of coma succeeding to palsy, but of those who die of the effects of injuries of the head, of abscess of the brain and cerebellum, and of tumours and other or- ganic changes taking place either in the brain or in its membranes. I have said that palsy occurs generally in the side opposite to that in which the lesion of the brain is found, because in some cases it has been observed in the same side. Though this singular phenomenon early attracted the attention of pathologists, it cannot be said that the circumstances, under which it takes place or does not take place, are determined. The fact was early demonstrated by Molinelli; and, in order to obtain a satisfactory explanation of it, much inquiry and experiment was un- dertaken by Pourfour de Petit, Saucerotte, and others, members of the Academy of Surgery; and the phenomenon has since been the subject of occasional inquiry to several from Morgagni, Haller, and Prochaska, to Dr Anderson and Dr Yellowly. The mutual inter- lacement of the cerebral chords between the restiform bodies has been supposed at various times, from Mistichelli and. Pourfour de Petit, adequate to explain it. To this the principal objection is the fact, that palsy of the opposite side, though frequent, is not an in- variable result of injury of the brain. The situation of these destroyed spots and hemorrhagic cavities, when inducing palsy, corresponds much with that of the cerebral in- jection or hemorrhage from which they arise. The region most ge- nerally affected is that already described asthestriated nucleus of Reil. Willis, for example, states, that in several dissections of persons dead after long-continued and obstinate palsy, he invariably found the corpora striata unusually soft, discoloured like wine-lees, and with the usual alternation of white and gray streaks much oblite- rated.* The accuracy of this inference regarding the part of the * Thom a: Willis, Cerebri Anatomc, cap. xiii. p. -13, et De Auinia Brutorum, cup. ix- p. 141 et 145.