544 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. These facts, which were known to the industrious Thomas Mouf fet, are confirmed in 1634 by the testimony of his own observation ;* and about the same time, Hauptmann and Hafenreuffer noticed the existence of the insect. The fact, nevertheless, appears by many to have been received with scepticism or positively denied; and even in 1683, when Bonomo addressed to Redi a letter on the existence of the insect of the itch, it was supposed, to be one of those examples of credulity which foreign naturalists occasionally ex - hibit.f Bonomo, nevertheless, had described the animal from nature; and in 1703 his description was communicated to the Royal Society, by Mead,J and afterwards by Baker and Schiebe, in such a manner that showed that the latter two had ascertained the existence of the animal, and examined it by the microscope. The authority of Bonomo prevailed with various foreign natu- ralists ; and Linnaeus, who admitted the existence of the insect as a species of Acarus or mite, adopted the description of the Italian naturalist. || Bonomo, however, had committed an error in consider- ing the itch insect as similar to the common mite ; and this was rec- tified by De Geer, who in 1778 both established the existence of the * “ Syrones have no certain form ; only they are round. Our eye can scarcely dis- cern them ; they are so small that Epicurus said it was not made of atoms, but was an atom itself. It dwells so under the skin, that when it makes its mines, it will cause a great itching, especially in the hands and other parts affected with them, and held to the fire. If you pull it out with a needle, and lay it on your nail, you shall see it move in the sun, that helps its motion: crack it with the other nail, it will crack with a noise ; and a watery venom comes forth ; it is of a white colour, except the head; if you look nearer, it is blackish, or from black it is something reddish. It is a wonder how so small a creature that creeps with no feet, as it were, can make such long fur- rows under the skin. This we must observe, by the way, that these syrones do not dwell in tbe pimples themselves, but hard by. For it is their property not to remove far from the watery humour, collected in the little bladder or pimple, and where that is wasted, or dried up, they all die shortly after.” Insectorum sive Minimorum Ani- malium Theatrum, olim ab Wottono Gesnero, et Pennioinchoatum. Folio. London, 1634. The Theatre of Insects or Lesser Living Creatures. By Thomas Mouffet, Doctor in Physick. London, 1658. Folio, Chapter xxiv. p. 1094 of Topsel. f G. C. Bonomo Osservazioni intorno a pellicelli del corpo umano. Florenza, 1683. G. C. Bonomo Obs. circa humani corporis teredinem. Ephem Nat. Cur. Dec. II. Ann. X. App. p. 33. + An Abstract of part of a Letter from Dr Bonomo to Signor Redi, containing some Observations concerning the Worms of Human Bodies. By Richard Mead, M. D. Phil. Trans, for 1703, No. 283, p. 1296. Vol. XXIII. London, 1704. || Linnzeus Exanthemata Viva. Amoenitatis Academics, V. n. 82, et VIII. p. 73 and 283.