411 MUSCULAR TISSUE. derable projection encroaching on the cavity of the right ventricle was globular and about three inches in diameter; and when laid open it was found to be a cyst containing a number of small cysts or hydatids, varying in size from that of a pea to the bulk of a pi- geon’s egg, the interstitial spaces between them being filled by a soft curd-like substance of a yellow colour. These hydatids were of the irregular spheroidal shape, and resembled in all respects the ace- phalocyst.* The muscular substance of the heart was attenuated. Trichina Spiralis.—There is also found in certain circumstances in the muscles of the human subject, a small capillary or hair-like worm coiled up in the spiral form. It has from these circumstances received the name of trichina spiralis. At the same time it must he observed, that all cylindrical worms are in general coiled up in the spiral or spherical form, so as to constitute little halls contained within membranes. This is probably the foetal or oviform stage of these animals. In the case of the trichina, its presence is indicated at first sight by the appearance of little vesicles or bags; and when these are brought under the field of the microscope, it is found that they contain hair-like worms of extreme minuteness and delicacy, coiled up in the spiral shape. It is not well known under what peculiar circumstances these parasitical animals are found in the animal body. In one body in which I saw them, the person had died of pulmonary consumption, that is, tuberculation and vomicce in the lungs. In others it appears in the bodies of persons in a had state of general health, emaciated and enfeebled with disease of the liver, or the intestinal tube. The zoological and physical characters of the animal have been very accurately described by Mr Owen, to whose work I refer for more ample details. * Case in which a Cyst containing Hydatids was found in the Substance of the-- Heart. By Herbert R. Evans, Esq. Surgeon. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, VoL XVII. p. 507. London, 1832.