692 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. It is possible to recognize through it the subjacent cerebral part of the membrane, its vessels and the appearance of the brain itself. This surface has been named in the ordinary works the web-like membrane, (tunica arachnoidea). It is believed to be a separate membrane from the pia mater ; but that which forms the inner or cerebral surface of the dura mater has a claim equally strong to this distinction. The inner or cerebral surface of the proper or soft membrane, I have already said, is filamentous, flocculent, and somewhat rough. It indeed presents a surface which sends out many angular pro- cesses of animal substance, which is filamentous and loose in ap- pearance, and which evidently, by numerous minute vessels, arte- ries, and veins, communicates with the convoluted surface of the brain. These processes, which are the Tomenta of the ancient anatomists, correspond to the furrows of the convoluted surface in which they are lodged. In detaching the membrane from this part of the brain, numerous vessels are observed to be drawn out of its substance ; and when the membrane is injected these vessels may be seen distinctly filled, and communicating with the gray matter of the convoluted surface. The veins of this membrane may be traced to the sinuses in those large longitudinal vessels which are lodged in folds of the hard membrane. After suitable injection, it is difficult to perceive any thing but arteries and veins in the proper cerebral membrane. Neither nerves nor absorbents have yet been recognized in it. Bichat con- siders that it contains a notable quantity of cellular tissue. This, however, is denied by Gordon, who could not recognize such tis- sue. The difference, however, consists merely in name. The pia mater, indeed, possesses no cellular tissue like the subcutaneous, the submucous, or the subserous. If, however, a portion of the arachnoid be peeled from it by careful management of the forceps and blowpipe, there is found a quantity of loose filamentous or flocculent matter, which evidently unites this tissue to the finer web of the former. It is further remarkable that Dr Gordon himself admits that the inner surface (he should have said the outer or attached) of the arachnoid membrane is more or less thready or flocculent, according to its connection with the pia mater, without seeming to be aware that this thready appearance is occasioned by filamentous tissue. Lastly, the existence of this tissue between the 4