115 VEIN, VENOUS TISSUE. experiments of Clifton Wlntringham show that it sustains a con- siderable weight without breaking, and that this toughness is gi eatei in early life, or in the veins of the young subject, than at a latei period.* In short, it may be stated as a general fact, that venous tissue, though thinner, possesses greater elasticity and tenacity than arterial tissue. According to the experiments of the same incpiii ei this property depends on that of the superior density of the venous tissue, the specific gravity of the matter of the vena cava being in- variably greater than that of the aorta in the same subject, both in man and in brute animals. From some experiments Magendie is disposed to consider it of a fibrinous character. But it exhibits in the living body no proof of muscular structure or irritable power. When punctured by a sharp instrument, or exposed to the electric or galvanic action, it undergoes no change or sensible motion. This tunic is wanting in those divisions of the venous system termed sinuses, in which its place is supplied by portions of the hard membrane ; (dura meninx.) 2d, The inner surface of any vein which has been laid open and well washed is found to be smooth, highly polished, and of a bluish or blue-white colour. This is the inner or free surface of the in- ner venous membrane, (membrana intima.) It is exceedingly thin, much more so than the corresponding arterial membrane, much more distensible and less fragile. It bears a very tight ligature without giving way as the arterial does; but it also sustains con- siderable weight, which shows that it is tough and resisting. This is the membrane termed by Bichat common membrane of dark or modena blood. According to the views of this anatomist it forms the inner or free surface not only of all the venous twigs, branches, and trunks composing this system of vessels, but it is extended from the superior and inferior great veins over the inner surface of the right auricle and ventricle, and thence over that of the pulmonary artery and its divisions; and through this whole tract it is the same in structure and properties. This doctrine has not yet been controverted. But perhaps it may be doubted, both with regard to the inner arterial membrane, that the inner tunic of the aorta and of the pulmonary veins is quite the same ; and in regard to this inner venous membrane, whether that of the veins in general is quite the same with that of the pul- * Experimental Inquiry on some parts of the Animal Structure. London, 1740.