92 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. mation of these bodies unless they were from chronic inflammation affecting the valves. The person in whom they were observed died within three hours after his admission to the hospital. He was a stout agricultural labourer, about 47 or 50 years of age. But of his previous state his friends gave no information, except that he had been attacked with difficult breathing and uneasiness in the chest about ten days before he applied for assistance. His pulse was feeble and the surface cold when he was admitted. 5. The surface or margins of the valves may present globular or spheroidal softisli dark-red coloured bodies like the granules of cauliflower adhering to them. These are aggregated in masses, so as to form something like fungous or cauliflower growths. They are friable and easily broken off, and most commonly in handling them, many are removed. These bodies seem to be originally masses either of lymph or fibrin, which thus are either effused by, or adhere to the valves in a state of inflammation. 4. Ossification, Earthy Degeneration of Scarpa ; Calcareous De- position. It has been long known that arteries are liable to depo- sition of calcareous matter. By De La Sone it was first remarked that this process takes place in the inner membrane only;* and Bichat afterwards referred it to the outer or attached surface of the membrane, an opinion in which he is supported by the testi- mony of Meckel, Scarpa, Hodgson, and others. Scarpa only ad- mits as a possible alternative its deposition in the interval between the inner and proper coat in the delicate tissue termed second cellu- lar by Haller.f By Jourdan and Breschet, however, the transla- tors of the work of Meckel, who contend that the internal mem- brane is never ossified, it is positively stated that the calcareous matter is accumulated in the cellular tissue connecting the inner to the proper coat. It is perhaps of no great moment to dispute this point; but I shall mention three facts, which show that the statement of MM. Jourdan and Breschet must be admitted with caution. ls£, There is no cellular tissue between the two mem- branes,]: and the inner adheres simply to the proper coat. This is established, notwithstanding the authority of Haller, by dissec- tion, and by observing the effects of maceration and boiling. 2dig, Calcareous deposition is observed to take place at the semilunar * Memoires de l’Academic Royale, 1756, p. 199, 12mo. f Sull’ Aneurisma, Capitolo v. § 29. ;p “ La surface externe, foiblemcnt unie a l’autre membrane, comme nous l’avons vu, n’a point un intermediare cellulaire.”— Bichat, Tome I. p. 291.