921 GALL-STONES AND THEIR EFFECTS. toms are caused either by the presence of a large distending body in the ducts, or by the efforts made by the ducts and other textures to expel that body. When gall-stones are unusually large, they may be discharged either by vomiting from the stomach; or by the intestinal canal; the whole of which, as well as the Gystic and common ducts, they must traverse; or they procure for themselves a route to the sur- face of the body by means of ulceration, most commonly through the parietes of the intestinal canal and abdominal muscles. Indeed it is not unlikely that, in various instances, they cause ulceration thr ough the hepatic ducts or gall-bladder, in both the previous cases; and instances ai’e recorded in which ulceration must have been previously effected in the gall-bladder or hepatic and cystic ducts, before the gall-stone could get either into the intestinal canal, or come to the surface. 1. It is not very usual for gall-stones to be expelled from the stomach by vomiting. Schurig, nevertheless, mentions not fewer than eight instances in which gall-stones had been ejected in this manner.* Orteschi records one case in his Diary, f One is given in the Gazette Salutaire ; and one is given by Biondi.+ 2. Thi ough the intestinal canal it is greatly more common to ob- serve gall-stones expelled ; and while numerous cases are record- ed, many must have taken place without being noticed. The fol- lowing are the best authenticated. F. Ruysch, Thesaurus Anatomicus Quintus, n. 32. Dr Musgrave records an instance of an oval gall-stone nearly one inch long, and weighing 59 grains, being voided by a gentleman after an attack of jaundice, with much pain in the epigastric region S Bezold records the case of a woman of 52, who, after much suf- fering, passed a wedge-shaped hard biliary concretion, weighing immediately after discharge, one ounce two drachms and half &a scruple, which measured in its long circumference from two inches and a half to three inches and a half, and in the middle was about four inches and a half.|| bout Mr J. Yonge, in a letter to Hooke, informs him that he had lately seen a gentlewoman almost dead in jaundiee relieved by the § A Letter from Dr Wbl tom^r!“c'to Dr 1 P- »