734 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. E. A. Jennings records in a stout healthy man of 54, an instance of aneurism of the basilar artery suddenly giving way, and causing speedy dissolution by hemorrhage. This aneurism, which was about the size of a pea, was situate on the basilar artery, immediately after the union of the two vertebral arteries. From this blood had escaped and spread itself over the medulla oblongata * This per- son was wont to suffer from pain in the head. Death took place about eight hours after the appearance of the first symptoms. In the course of inspections at the Royal Infirmary of this place, I have observed three instances of aneurism of the cerebral arteries within the space of about five years. Two of these were situate in the anterior arteries of the brain in the fissure of Sylvius. The arteries in both cases were diseased along their whole course. The aneurismal swelling in one case was about the size of a pea; in the other it was a little larger. In both cases, rupture had taken place, followed by apoplectic death. A third case I observed in the basilar artery. The tumour here was regularly spherical, and appeared like a small globular body formed in the course of the artery. The preparation is preserved in the museum of the university. A good example of aneurism in the right vertebral artery is given by Cruveilhier. In this case the swelling was almost exactly globular, and extended equally on each side of the artery, being altogether from five to six lines in diameter. The interior shows clots and steatomatous deposition.-}- By some, as Mr Porter, it is maintained that aneurism in this si- tuation must be true aneurism, that is, formed by dilatation of the inner and middle tunics alone, as there is no cellular duct to form an external covering, were the inner tunics lacerated. It is cer- tainly remarkable that these aneurisms of the cerebral arteries pre- sent examples of uniform and regular dilatation much more com- plete, than are observed in the aneurisms of other regions. They are in truth the only aneurisms which afford examples of what Cruveilhier denominates peripheral, that is, spherical aneurisms, embracing the entire periphery of the vessel in which they are formed. Cruveilhier, nevertheless, maintains that the whole three tunics are dilated ; and in supporting this proposition, he necessarily maintains that the cerebral arteries possess a cellular tunic as wel as those of other regions. • Case of Aneurism of the Basilar Artery suddenly giving way, &c. By E. A. Jon nings. Transactions of Provincial Association, Vol. i. p. 270. London, 1033. -(- Anatomie Pathologique, Livraison xxviii. PI. iii. figs. 2, 3, 4.