BRAIN. 275 between these two, and the size of which exceeds that of the brain. This third portion corresponds to the protuberance, or rather • to that part of the organ, the upper surface of which is formed by the four eminences, (corpora quadrigeminal) and the lower suiface by the annular protuberance.* According to M. Serres, it is foimed in man and animals before the brain and cerebellum, and imme- diately after the spinal chord. In the fifth month the brain covei s a part of the protuberance; it advances to the cerebellum, and in the seventh exceeds it. At the same time, the other parts, and especially that, which we have mentioned, as the third or central portion, do not grow at the same rate. At the beginning, that is about the seventh week, the brain is found to be divided in two portions by a longitudinal fissure. Each half mutually approaches as growth continues, and are at length united, so that at the third month the only parts found separate are the middle ventricle, the aqueduct or canal, which is at this time a large cavity continuous with it, and the fourth ventricle. The de- velopment of the cavities called lateral ventricles is closely connect- ed with that of the contiguous parts of the organ. These appear nearly in the following order. The lateral lobes appear first about three months after concep- tion ; and about the same time the mesolobe, (corpus callosum,) is formed by union of the hemispheres; and the cylindroid processes, (cornua ammonis,) vault, (fornix,) mammillary eminences, posterior commissure, and cerebral limbs or peduncles, may be recognized. Shortly after may be seen the ergot, or small hippocampus, and the anfractuosity from which it issues, and the conarium and its pe- duncles ; then the anterior commissure, the thin partition (septum lucidum) and its cavity, which at this time communicates with the middle ventricle; lastly, the semicircular fillet, (tcenia semicircula- ris,) and the infundibulum, which correspond to the seventh month; and about the same time the outer surface of the brain begins to present the eminences denominated convolutions, and the cerebel- lum its laminated or foliated appearance. In the early weeks of existence the brain is fluid, soft, and homo- geneous. The white matter and its fibrous structure is first seen ; and the cross structure of the fibres of the pyramids are observable about the eighth week, according to M. Serres. About the sixth month the cerebral substance appears, when microscopically exa- * Anatomic unci Bildungs-Geschichte dcs Gchirns im Foetus des Menschen u. s. f. Von Dr Fredrick Tiedemann, Professor der Anatomie, u. s. f. Nurnberg, 1816, 4to.