241 BRAIN. white parallel lines, exceedingly minute, from the substance of the hemispheres, either stop suddenly, or change their direction at this point. Their sudden termination gives rise to an appearance, to which the expressive hut erring epithet of suture (raphe) has been given. On each side of this other lines are remarked following the same direction. In general, they are situate about three or four lines from the median plane; but are in a few instances ob- served to be very regular in their disposition at the anterior end of the middle band. About its middle, however, a very distinct ap- pearance of lines collected into a considerable bundle, may be observed proceeding backwards to its posterior end. As they ad- vance they become more distinct, are about 14 line broad, and of a grayish colour; at the posterior end of the middle band, they diverge somewhat, and, passing over this, proceed in a lateral di- rection downwards, till they are lost about the spot where the limbs of the brain (crura cerebri, Die Hirnschenkel) issue from the optic eminences. This forms the inner, central, or gray portion of the cylindroid eminence. The posterior extremity of this body is rounded ; and when the membranes have been removed, the surface which forms this round- ed end is found to communicate directly with the chamber named third or middle ventricle. This surface is in truth continued for- ward, and forms the vault or ceiling, (fornix, Die Zwillingsbinde, the twain band, Reil,) a point which, though sufficiently obvious, is never noticed in description, or perspicuously demonstrated. The names of callous body and vault are applied in the ordinary works, as if they were denominations of different objects, or rather of dif- ferent bodies. If they are still to be retained, it ought to be stated that they are names applied to opposite surfaces only of the same object. The relations of the round or posterior end of the middle band are worthy of examination. The handle of a scalpel inserted be- neath it will be found to be in the middle ventricle, with the vault above, the conarium or pineal body, and four eminences of the up- per surface of the protuberance (corpora quadriyemina) below, and a part of each optic chamber on each side. I find it convenient to remove the posterior part of the hemispheres by a transverse sec- tion following the plane or level of the hinder end of the central band. A distinct view is thus given of this communication of the convoluted with the figurate surface ; and it may be observed, not Q