710 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. from a few ounces to several pints; and it varies according to the site of the membrane from which it is effused. Thus the fluid se- creted by the arachnoid membrane may not amount to above half an ounce, or at most to two or three ounces, which is to be re- garded as a great quantity. In some recorded instances it is said rather vaguely to amount to six. The fluid secreted by the peri- cardium may not be above one ounce, rarely exceeds two or three, and in a few instances only amounts to six, eight, or ten. In the pleura, on the contrary, it may amount to three, four, or five pints or quarts; and in the peritonaeum has been known to amount to several gallons. The quality of this fluid varies. That of the arachnoid is limpid and colourless, like clear water, with a slight saline taste, and con- tains traces of albumen. In the pericardium it is light coloured and semitransparent. In the pleura it may be straw-yellow and semitransparent, but is more frequently reddish, or brown and something opaque. In the peritonaeum it is semitransparent, yel- low, or greenish, sometimes with various shades of red or even brownish, like chocolate or coffee. In each of the three last cases it is invariably combined with albuminous matter. The hypothesis of Cullen, who ascribes this inordinate accumu- lation to any cause which increases exhalation or diminishes ab- sorption, though plausible, is too general, and does not comprehend all the facts of the case. One of the most uniform and powerful agents in augmenting exhalation from serous surfaces is that state of the capillaries in which they are injected, distended in such a manner as to constitute congestion or even inflammation. The influence of this cause appears to have been first well understood by Cruikshank,* Baillie,f and Parry,} nor had escaped the obser- * “ The second species of dropsy is very common, and is that which arises in conse- quence of previous inflammation of a cavity, and may take place in any habit of body. If an inflammation arise in a cavity, it may terminate in a number of different ways ; one of these is by increased secretion of fluid of surfaces. A man receives a blow on the testicle, inflammation takes place, and the consequence is frequently a hydioce e or dropsy of the tunica vaginalis. A child’s brain inflames, and this inflammation ends at last in hydrocephalus, or collection of water in the brain. Pleurisy frequency terminates in hydrothorax, or collection of water in the chest. I have o en a away forty or sixty pints of water, which had accumulated in the cavity of men in the few days the peritomeal inflammation had lasted, during the usua sp of childbed fever. This is to be considered as the substituting a less i angeroi Peritoneal inflammation kill, often in three day., hut acute may he* twenty years.”—Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels. f Morbid Anatomy, p. 57. 4th edit. Lond. 1812. giifi 207 °0R 7 collections from the unpublished Medical V ntings, &c. p. 2<lo, -