356 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. hemispheres, and proceeding in both directions towards the convo- luted and the central surfaces. When the process of nutritious deposition is arrested at an early period, the brain is entirely want- ing, and one or two imperfectly shaped tubercles only denote the site of the corpora quadrigemina, the thalami, or the protuberance. If at a later period, the cerebellum and the lower part of the brain, with several of its objects, may be completed. But separating the two hemispheres above, there is found a large chasm, filled by wa- ter, and in which neither mesolobe, vault, septum, nor thalami can be recognized. This interruption M. Serres ascribes to imperfect development of the arterial system going to the brain. But this is only a collateral effect. In some instances a hemisphere is wanting; in others the anterior lobe is deficient; in others both anterior lobes are wanting; and in others there is a general diminution in the size of one whole hemisphere, and the magnitude of its component convolutions, while the other presents* its normal dimensions and proportions. All these phenomena are produced in the same way and proceed from the same cause. An attack of meningeal inflammation or hy- drocephalus in the womb, before birth, or immediately after that event,—not sufficient to extinguish life,—arrests the nutritive action of a certain order of the cerebral capillaries. The nutritive action is employed in secreting serous fluid. The growth of part of the brain affected is suddenly stopped; and while the growth of the rest advances, that remains stationary. This interruption of normal action of vessels depends on a sud- den change somehow effected in them, in consequence of which they no longer continue the nutritious process. The proof that the im- perfect development of the arterial system is only a collateral effect, is found in the fact, that the development of these vessels is always equal and sometimes superior to the progress of the abnormal action and its effects. It is manifest that, in cases of this nature, the atrophy of the brain is not a primary or idiopathic lesion, but is indeed the effect partly of the excessive distension of the walls of the brain by an extraordinary quantity of fluid, and partly of mechanical compres- ion by the fluid inducing sometimes condensation of the parts, some- times softening, but always more or less destruction of the proper structure. Atrophy, indeed, is one of the effects of great effusions of fluid. It cannot be denied that in cases of this class the brain is not nourished, or is even deprived of nourishment. But it must 4