BONE. 467 ing of the bone, and always with a thin sanious discharge.* * * § lour in the bone, sometimes with hardness, sometimes with soften- Next in this series may be placed the doctrines of Mercklin, as given in his commentary on the treatise of Pandolphinus. This author collects the opinions and observations of all his predecessors and contemporaries; and, though it be not easy to discover his own views, yet, upon the whole, it may be said that he leans most to those of Ammann. He regards the disease as arising from inflam- mation in the substance of bones, which he thinks may cause either abscess with caries or sphacelus; and that this inflammation may affect any portion of bones or any order of bones; and may arise either from scurvy, the venereal poison, or the presence of morbid fluids.f The nearest approach to the true pathology of this malady was probably made by Freind, who placed t.he primary action in the marrow, which becoming diseased and enlarged, separates the outer lamella, and distends the periosteum with pain and swelling.:}: We still require, nevertheless, the collateral illustration of actual cases and dissections. Cheselden observed, in 1713, that matter was liable to be formed within the large medullary cavities of the cylindrical bones; and that this increasing and wanting vent, partly by corroding and * rendering the bone carious and partly by pressure, tears asunder the strongest bone in the human body ; and of this he mentions an example, in which all the internal hard part of the bone containing the medulla was separated from the rest, and being drawn out through the place where the external caries made a vent, the pa- tient received a perfect cure.§ This was manifestly a case of ne- krosis. In his Osteographia, published in 1733, containing seve- ral views of diseased bones, especially from the effects of mercury, he gives, in his 49th plate, the view of a sequestrum of the os humeri which had been removed from the arm of a girl of 13; and in his 55th plate, another figure of an os humeri, both reproduced, and with the sequestrum or fragment of the old bone.§ These he men- tions without seeming to consider them as making examples of spina ventosa. * Pauli Ammann Diss. de Spina Ventosa. Lipsiie, 1674. 4to. Cap. ii. + Josephi Pandolphini Tractatus, &c. Cap. v. 3, p. 198, et passim. Noriberme 1674. „ t Joannis Freind, M. D., Opera Omnia Medica. Histori'a Medicime. Pars Secunda, p. 487. Folio. London, 1733. § Osteographia. By William Cheselden. London, 1733. Folio. And Anatomy of the Human Body, 1-2th edition. London, 1784. P.40.