758 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Others again have proposed to refer to the order of glands the ovaries of the female, because they arc analogous to the testes of the male; and they have regarded the ova as secreted or excreted products ; and the Fallopian tubes as excretory ducts. This view rests, it must be admitted, upon some analogy both anatomical and physiological. But it is enough to mention it here ; nor do 1 think it proper, in a work of this kind, to introduce views which may re- quire further confirmation. Under the glandular system I include the following organs ; the lacrymal gland; the salivary glands, viz. the parotid, the sublin- gual, and the sabmaxillary glands; the liver and the pancreas; the kidneys; the testes, the prostate gland, and Cowper’s glands in the male; and the mammae in the female; the sebaceous follicles of the skin, and the muciparous follicles of the mucous membranes. On no subject in general anatomy has information been so void of precision and accuracy as on the structure of the glands. By several anatomists the structure has been believed to be the same in all; and consequently, what was supposed to be ascertained as to one has been applied indiscriminately to all. Little, indeed, was ascertained; and few accurate facts were recorded. Sylvius and Steno,Glisson* and Wharton,! were the principal inquirers previous to the time of Malpighi; and both the two latter did communicate some information. These anatomical results, however, were much influenced by various physiological notions on the nature of secre- tion ; and as the latter were often erroneous, the former were rarely in all points correct. Malpighi, in 1661, taught that all glands consisted of an aggre- gation or collection of minute saccular organs, (utriculi), in which the blood-vessels were distributed, and which saccular organs he denominated sometimes small glands, (glandules), sometimes acini. Acini in the liver he represents to consist of simple glandules col- lected in clusters, which glandules are hollow membranous cavities. These acini are in shape hexagonal or polyhedral. The glandular bodies in the kidneys, on the other hand, are round or spherical like the ova of fishes; but these glandulce are in like manner hollow-! * Francisci Glissonii Anatomia ITepatis. I2mo. Londini, 1654. -j- Thom® Wharton Adenographia, seu Glandularum totius Corporis Descriptio. H\o. Londini, 1656. + Marcelli Malpigliii Exercitationes Anatomic® de Structura Viscerum ; nomina tim, Hepatis, Cerebri Corticis, Renum, Lienis. cum Dissertatione de Polypo Cordis e Epistolis Duabus de Pulmonibus. apud Opera Omnia. Tomum Secundum. I'olio, Londini, 1687.