926 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. the case of large concretions; yet it is not confined to them, but serves as the channel for evacuation of moderate-sized gall-stones also. Of this mode of expulsion, many instances are recorded; but I mention only the following in illustration of the circumstance. In the Ephemerides Naturae Curiosorum cases by many authors. Tolet states that he saw a gall-stone as large as a pigeon’s egg discharged by an ulcer at the navel.* * * § The editor of the Bologna Commentaries gives, from the prac- tice of Tacconi, in 1739, the following case. A married woman of 27 suffered for some time under pain at the epigastric region, squeamishness, occasional vomiting, and at length a suppurating swelling near the site of the right lobe of the liver. Into this an incision was made ; when four ounces of matter and seven biliary concretions came away. In the course of fourteen days, other con- cretions came away, varying in shape, size, and weight, one as large as a nutmeg. After this, recovery took place. No jaundice was observed.! Cheselden mentions a case in which two gall-stones, six lines in diameter, were discharged through the abdominal integuments-! Hoffmann mentions a case in which eighty gall-stones were dis- charged by an ulcer in the abdomen. § Wislicen records the case of a man who, after suffering for one year much pain in the abdomen, had a tumour in the right groin, which was opened by caustic, and discharged at length upwards of fifty concretions of the size of beans and peas.|| Petit mentions three instances. The first was that of a lady who had a pointing tumour in the right hypochondre, which, on being opened, discharged at first pure bile; and from which, seven or eight months afterwards, there escaped a gall-stone.If The second one, from Lapeyronie, in a woman of 37, in whom a tumour ap- peared in the epigastric region, which, on being opened, discharged purulent matter with bile, and five or six concretions of the size of * Traite de la Lithotomie. 8vo, 4trieme edition, Utrecht. Chap. iv. p. 24. 1693. ■)■ De Bononiensi Scientiarum et Artium Instituto atque Academia Commentarii, r. 2di, Pars prima. Bononiae, 1745. 4to, p. 212. + Anatomy, Boole iii. chap. v. p. 166. 12th edit. London, 1784. § Crell Chemische Annalen 1789. viii. St. Seite 128. || J. Andreae Wislicen Lapides per Abdomen ulceratione exclusi. Lipsiae, 1742. Apud Haller Dissertationes Medico-Practicas, T. iii. p. 629. If TraitC* dcs Maladies Chirurgicales, Ocuvrage Posthume de J. L. Petit. Tome i. !>• 313. Mis au jour, par M. Lesne. Paris, 1790.