259 BRAIN. gagni,) are described in most works as tlie pyramidal eminences. (Haller, Malacarne, Red.) As there is no doubt that this part of the spinal chord presents six eminences, three on each side, as above stated, with the view of avoiding the confusion with which anato- mists speak on these bodies, I adhere to the plan originally adopted by Willis, Ridley, Ruysch, and Morgagni, of distinguishing the anterior eminences as pyramidal, and the posterior as the restiform processes* Stretching in the form of thick strong bands between the pe- duncles of the cerebellum above, and the spinal chord below, the restiform processes are mutually parted by a deep furrow, (calamus scriptorius,) in the bottom of which, when slightly separated, white chords proceeding from the process of one side are observed to be plaited or crossed with those of the other. This arrangement was first observed by Dominico Mistichelli,f a physician at Rome, in 1709, and shortly after by Pourfour de Petit]: at Namur. Though subsequently verified by the observation of Santorini,§ Win- * “ The third descends from this part (the cerebellum) backwards upon the upper side of the medulla oblongata, like two longish thick chords on each side, making the medulla look somewhat thicker and broader in that place, and not unfitly styled the chordal process." The Anatomy of the Brain, &c. By H. Ridley, Coll. Med. Bond. Soc. London, 1695, chap. xiv. p. 136. Of this the term processus restiformis is a literal translation, given by his Latin translator, and in the collection of Mangetus. It is remarkable, that, though thus early noticed by Ridley, and afterwards distin- guished as posterior pyramidal eminences by Ruysch, the restiform processes have been completely neglected, and are scarcely known even by name. It is not uncom- mon both in books and in demonstration to see them pointed out as the corpora py- ramidalia. By those who wish to avoid the confusion resulting from this oversight, they are termed posterior pyramidal bodies ; and in support of this, the authority of Ruysch, Prochaska, and Soemmering* may be adduced. ■f Trattato dell’ Apoplessia. Roma, 1709. Lib. i. Cap. vi. ix. X Lettre d’un Medecin des Hospices du Roi. Namur, 1710. § “ Nos autem sic earn lueulenter conspeximus, sic evidenter, ubi apta incidere ea- davera demonstravimus, ut nulla amplius nobis de hac re supersit dubitandi ratio. Id autem triplici potissimum in loco animadvertere potuimus ; in utraque scilicet priore posterioreque annularis protuberantise crepidine, atque maxime in imo medullaris cau- dicis, qua in spinalem abit. In priore itaque annularis protuberaritiae parte, qua supe- rius reflexa pro comprehendendis oblongata; medulla cruribus in anguli formam in- terius producta tenuatur, sic ex concurrentibus fibris, strictiorique agmine coeuntibus, altera alteram scandit, ut prater mirum implexum, decussatio luculentissime apparent. Id ipsum ferine in postica ipsius crepidine occurrit. Eo iterum in loco, qui quarto ven- triculo subjicitur, (the space between the restiform processes,) prater varios fibrarum * Frederici Ruyscliii Responsio a<l M. It. Ettmuller de Corticali Cerebri Substantia, itc. p. 25. Am- •tel. 1721. Ceorgii Prochaska De Structure Nervorum Tractatus, &c. Sectio 3. tabula i. fig- 1. S. T. Soemmering De Ba»i Euccphali, &c. Tab. II. sect. 3. § IB. Apud Ludwig, Tom. 11.