29 FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. dense firm jelly adhering to the tube.* The presence of albumen always denotes more or less disease of the kidney, particularly the granular degeneration described by Dr Bright; and, with cei tain ex- ceptions, the greater the amount of the coagulum, the more intense and decided is the degree of degeneration. In scailet fevei it oc- casionally indicates merely a state of the kidney allied to acute inflammation. 8. Purulent matter is contained in the urine in various purulent or puriform affections of the kidneys and bladder. Its presence is known by being observed at the bottom of the vessel after the urine has been allowed to rest for some time. When the urine is first voided it is turbid and opaque with numerous jlocculi, and the colour is generally pale straw with an opalescent tint. After stand- ing some time the upper portion becomes clear, and a layer more or less thick of yellow or whitish grey purulent matter is ob- served at the bottom of the tube or glass jar. The supernatant urine is often coagulable by the application of heat or the addition of acids. The lower deposit may be recognised by the eye to be purulent matter with shreds of lymph; but it is more easily seen by a good glass ; and the microscope exhibits distinctly the purulent globules. In this state of the urine, as in the last, the patient feels frequent and urgent calls to empty the bladder, in which accordingly the urine seldom accumulates beyond two or three ounces. 9. Melituria.—Sugar is the most important foreign or new substance which may be found in the urine. The secretion has in that state, when voided, a smell of whey, or milk, or new hay, less agreeable, however, and somewhat nauseous. Its colour is generally a pale honey yellow, but in some instances it is as deep as that of porter. Its density is always increased, being generally above 1020, and rising from that to 1030, or 1035, or 1050. This is caused by the considerable increase of the solid matters; for not only is there a new substance in the sugar contained, but the urea is increased in quantity and is rarely diminished. It is supposed, however, that in saccharine urine the urea is diminished as the disease ad- vances. The presence of saccharine matter in urine constitutes the patho- logical character of the disease named diabetes. With the increase in the amount of urea and the presence of this new element, the quantity of the whole secretion is greatly increased, so that within * Elements of Practice of Medicine, Vol. IT. p. 1122.