560 GNEERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. In the stomach, duodenum, and ileum, this membrane is collect- ed into folds or plaits, which have received in the former situation the name of rug® or wrinkles, and in the latter the name of plica or folds, and valvules conniventes or winking valves. In the vagina also are transverse rug®, which in like manner are folds or dupli- cates of its mucous membrane. Those of the oesophagus are lon- gitudinal, and have been described by Bleuland. In the tracheo- bronchial membrane, and in the membranous and spongy portions of the urethra, we find them in the shape of minute plates or wrinkles in the long direction of their respective tubes, but rarely of much length. These folds or plaits are quite peculiar to the mucous membranes; and the object of them appears to be to increase the extent of surface, and to allow the membrane to undergo consider- able occasional distension. In certain points, where a communication is observed between the general mucous surface and the cavities or recesses of particu- lar regions, anatomists have not demonstrated a mucous membrane, but have inferred its existence as a continuation of the general surface. In the tympanal cavity to which the Eustachian tube leads, the existence of a mucous or fibro-mucous membrane is rather pre- sumed from analogy than proved by actual observation. We know that, where the biliary and pancreatic ducts enter the duodenum, and for a considerable space towards the liver, the interior appear- ance is that of a fine mucous surface provided with lacun® and vil- losities; but it is impossible to say at what point of the hepatic duct, or of the smaller canals of which it is formed, the mucous membrane terminates. The tracheal membrane, when traced to the bronchial divisions, presents no arrangement, either of papill®, piles, or villosities; and nothing is perceived except a smooth uniform surface, of a colour between gray, dun, and red or purple, which is moistened with a viscid semitransparent fluid, and which is as like the peritonaeum as the intestinal mucous membrane. In the ultimate divisions of the bronchial tubes, the mucous mem- brane follows the anatomical arrangement of these tubes to their extremities. It was at one time imagined, that these tubes terminat- ed in enlarged or dilated chambers, which were termed by Malpighi ampullid®, and by others air-cells and vesicles; and it was further believed, especially by Willis and Senac, that various vesicles or ultimate chambers placed at the terminal ends of bronchial tubes communicated with each other in the substance of the lungs. These *;