21 FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. when under spontaneous coagulation. Alter this is completed, the clot still retains so much serum, that it must be subjected to re- peated pressure, or to evaporation, or both, before the clot can be obtained in a solid and dry state, quite free from serum. When this has been done, it is found that the spontaneously coagulable part of the blood is always much less than the fluid part; in other words, that it is in the ratio of minority to the serum, or numerically in the ratio of 13 to 87 in 100 parts of blood. Liquid fibrin, or the spontaneously coagulable part of the blood, is most abundant in warm-blooded animals ; and among these it is more abundant in the blood of birds than in that of the mammalia. In fishes it is very scanty ; and it is sparing also in the blood of the reptile family. In fishes and reptiles it is more in the form of a liquid gore, viscid and semifluid, but scarcely coagulating, than in that of blood. It is a well-known fact that in frogs the blood does not coagu- late on exposure of the vessels to air, as it does in the mammalia. This must be owing either to the blood of these animals containing a much smaller proportion of fibrin than that of the mammalia, or the fibrin having much less coagulating power. In either case it comes to the same result. This has been supposed by De Saissy and others to bear some relation to the state of respiration in these several classes; and the idea seems accordant with the facts. In birds the function of re- spiration is most fully developed. In reptiles and fishes it is very imperfectly developed. When blood drawn from the veins of a person labouring under acute rheumatism and other inflammatory diseases is undergoing coagulation in a glass vessel, a colourless fluid may be perceived round the edge of the surface ; and after an interval of four or five minutes, a bluish appearance is observed, forming an upper layer of the blood, in consequence of the subsidence of the red particles to a certain distance below the surface, and the clear liquor being left between the place of the red particles and the edge of the ves- sel. rIhis liquid may be collected by a spoon and placed in another vessel, where it is first clear, though opalescent, viscid, and homo- geneous. After some time, however, it undergoes separation into two parts; one coagulated, the other fluid. The coagulated part is the fibrin of the blood or that which is spontaneously coagulable; the fluid part the serum. The opalescent liquor has been named liquor sanguinis, (Babington.)