genitourinary MUCOUS MEMBRANE. boo and progressively. When this destroying action arrived at the peritonaeum, it caused first adhesion of that, or rather adhesive in- flammation, connecting it to the peritoneum of the corresponding portion of ileum, and then proceeded by the same ulcerative action to destroy the tunics of that portion of bowel, though in the oppo- site direction; that is, first, peritoneum, then cellular and muscu ar tissue, then cellular and mucous membrane. This view of the course of the disorder is, nevertheless, not without difficulty. It supposes the process of tubercular deposition and ul- ceration to advance first from the mucous to the peritonseal sui ace of a portion of ileum, and then from the peritonseal to the mucous surface; or that the process was advancing simultaneously from the mucous membranes of two applied portions of ileum to the peii- tonseal until they met in the latter point. Notwithstanding these difficulties, this view appears more pro- bable, than that the disease had commenced in the peritoneum, and thence proceeded to affect the other intestinal tissues to the mucous membrane. The ulcerated openings also corresponded in figure and size writh the patches of agminated glands. Dr George Gregory takes the opposite view; and his case I therefore refer to the head of lesions of the peritoneum. D. THE GENITOURINARY MUCOUS MEMBRANE. § 1. The genito-urinary mucous membrane in both sexes is the seat of sundry forms of the inflammatory process. The urethral membrane, though forming a part of this surface, possesses, nevertheless, certain anatomical and sensible peculiari- ties. Smooth, and even polished, moistened by a thin transparent fluid, it is formed into the sinuosities named lacune, which, like the follicles of other membranes, secrete a fluid of a peculiar odour, which, united with that of the general membrane, serves to lubri- cate the surface. Examined from its opening to its cystic extre- mity, it presents divisions which may be enumerated in the follow- ing order, the spongy, the bulbous, the membranous, and the pro- static or vesical portions, according to the parts of the canal to which the membrane is attached. This membrane may be the seat of inflammation of two sorts ;—one circumscribed and unsuppura- tive, the other spreading, and accompanied with secretion of puri- form or purulent matter, more or less abundant. a. Urethria simplex.—Common inflammation of the urethra con-