GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. sac are more elongated; and the circular motion of the blood most fully evolved in the intestinal sac, is distinguished by innu- merable arches of reticulated vessels. A trunk of veins bends to the right, and seems to proceed under the liver, where it sends se- veral small vessels into the liver. The liver itself, situate in the anterior prolongation of the intestinal sac, is known by its whiten- ing, elongated, almost pedunculated acini. These might be called vesiculcs, if it could be proved that they are already hollow. In grown animals, the principal difference is in the greater dis- tinctness with which the vessels and the contained blood are seen. The substance of the liver is very tender, is turned from tawny into white, not unlike the substance of the yelk : it consists of elongated acini, variously disposed, similar almost to the elongated bundles of acini in the embryo of birds; only these are in Birds more distinct and freely prominent. As to the liver of Birds, the observations of Baer deserve notice. He states, that from the swelled vascular layer of the alimentary canal are developed, in the course of the third day after impregna- tion, the lungs, the liver, the pancreas, the caecum, and the urinary bladder. All these parts are developed from the closed, not the open end of the alimentary canal, while the mucous membrane of i that canal is covered with the proportional tubes in the vascular layer. The liver appears, about the middle of the fourth day, as two pyramid-like hollow limbs of the intestinal canal, which enclose the common venous trunk, and pass with their broad basis into the ali- mentary canal. Scarcely have these pyramids clasped the veins, when they are prolonged into the next containing part of the vas- cular layer, and are ramified in it, a covering from the vascular membrane at the same time urging them forward. The protruded portions appear, with increasing prolongation and contraction of the alimentary canal, leaf-like, and closely embracing the veins. In these leaves appear the tips of the advancing quills, while then- basis is progressively narrowed, and assumes the form of a cylinder The ramification appears under the microscope as a branching dark figure in the inside of each leaf. As soon as the quill-like prolongations, which form the future hepatic ducts, begin to take the cylindrical form, there appears among them a retraction which increases gradually, so that at the end 0 the third day they scarcely reach the middle of the substance o the vascular layer, and externally they form nowhere any prq;ec-