MORBID STATES OF THE HEART.—VALVULAR DISEASE. 1047 the arterial system and that of the venous. The lesion, however, is not unknown. Instances of its occurrence are given by V ieussens, Hunald, Morgagni, Bertin, the elder Horn, Cruwel, Corvisart, Burns, and Mr Bransby Cooper. In a slight degree, that is, in the state of cartilaginous induration, it is occasionally observed in the tricuspid valve, and less frequently in the semilunar pulmonary valves. It is a remarkable circumstance, that the cartilaginous or ossified state of the valves of the right chambers of the heart is found chiefly in the persons of those who present a preternatural communication between the right and left chambers of the organ; and from this, Laennec infers that the action of the arterial blood has considerable influence in the production of these calcareous deposits. Small granular bodies loosely adhering to each other are liable to grow on the valves, especially in the left chambers of the heart, and sometimes from the walls of the heart itself. These loose gra- nular bodies, which have been usually denominated warty growths, (verruca), and vegetations, have been ascribed by Kreysig, Ber- tin, and Bouillaud to the influence and effects of inflammation. The justice of this opinion Laennec questions, though he admits that a false membrane, produced by inflammation, might form in some rare cases the nucleus or rudiment, as it were, of the concre- tion. Laennec further ascribes these productions to partial coagu- lation of the blood. It seems to me doubtful, nevertheless, whether Laennec has not in this view adopted too limited notions on the natui e of inflammation. Though these substances are so loose and soft that it is difficult, if not impossible, to preserve them, yet it appears to me that they may be the result of chronic inflammation of the lining membrane of the heart; and it is some argument in favour of this idea, that these productions are often associated with other changes, which are known to be the result of inflammatory action ; for instance, cartilaginous and steatomatous transformation and calcareous deposition. By Scarpa and Corvisart they are as- cribed to the influence of the syphilitic poison. It is a well ascer- tained fact that they are frequent in the bodies of those who have been subjected to the full and repeated influence of mercury. The lesions now described may exist for some time alone.’ But the most usual course is, that they either give rise to, or are com- plicated with, certain changes in the dimensions and capacity of the chambers of the heart, and various changes in the muscular walls of the organ. Thus vvhon the mitral valve is rendered firm or calcareous, and