GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. (538 that the ileum seemed detached from the caecum, and adhered by a few shreds only. Feculent matter had escaped into the abdominal cavity near the lacerated portion of ileum ; and in this was found about half an ounce of the stones of the medlars eaten, and about as much in the faeces within the ileum * Similar instances of the stoppage of stones of the drupaceous fruits, bones, pieces of money, and similar foreign bodies, are recorded by Younge, Amyand, Fielding, Stoll, and other authors. In certain instances intestinal concretions are formed either spontaneously or around bodies of the kind now mentioned. In either case the stop- page of such bodies in the caecum is at once probable, and likely to produce irritation and inflammation of that portion of the intes- tinal tube. These must be regarded as disposing causes. As to age, it seems to take place most frequently in persons be- tween 20 and 30. As to sex, MM. Husson and Dance say that it is more frequently seen in males than in females.f My own experience, nevertheless, leads to the opposite conclusion. I have seen the disease in a greater number of females than males; I have found it more unmanage- able in females than in males; I have never seen a fatal case in a man, but several in females. I infer that the class of females in whom it is most frequent is that of domestic servants and seam- stresses. As to the influence of articles of food, it has been said that the use of oatmeal, which favours the formation of intestinal concretions, is also liable to be followed by this disease. Yet it does not appear that the disease is less frequent in France and England, where wheaten bread is used, than in Scotland, where oatmeal is used as part of food. It appears to me also very questionable, whether among those who in Scotland use oatmeal much as food, it is more frequent than among those who use it little or not at all. Constipation is probably favourable to its formation ; and what- ever tends to impede or interrupt the periodical evacuation of the bowels must tend to produce this as it does other disorders.^ * Caroli Fred Kaltselimidt de ileo a scrupulis Pyrorum Mespilaceorum eroso per- forate. Jen®, lmo Oct. 1747. Haller, Disput. Medico-Pract. iii. p. 510. -f- Memoire sur quelques engorgemens inflammatoires qui se development dans la fosse iliaque Droite. Repertoire d’Anatomie, &c. T. iv. p. 74. Paris, 1827. + Ferrall in Edin- Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. xxxvi. p. 1. Edin. 1881. And Dr Burne in Medico-Cliirurgical Transact, xx. p. 200, and xxii.