Ixii HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. To return now to the lectures, which were the raison d'etre of the collection, and which determined its general shape. Regarding William Hunter's teaching we know a good deal: (1) from tradition—he was the most celebrated teacher of anatomy of his day in Britain ; (2) from the two Introductory Lectures alreadj' referred to, which he left corrected for the press, and which were published the year after his death ; and (3) from students' notes of his lectures, of which there are several good sets in existence in various libraries. The first introductory lecture is taken up with a concise history of anatomy, and some remarks on recent advances in science. In the second he discusses the subject-matter of anatomy, the practical importance of the science to medicine and surgery, and details the plan of his lectures. We have here, in fact, an account in his own words of what he intended his anatomical teaching to be, and how he proposed to carry out his intentions. Incidentally the lectures throw a great deal of light on the condition of anatomy and anatomical teaching in Britain in his day and earlier ; their accuracy is testified by the use made of them in the report of the Select Committee on Anatomy. They are truly philosophic and at the same time practical introductory lectures. The students' notes supply details of the scope and character of his teaching, the way he used the anatomical museum, and (perhaps in a not very reliable way) his opinions on subjects not treated in his published works. In writing the catalogue everything that might throw light on the source or purpose of preparations was of interest, and naturally the reports of his lectures, as well as his printed works, were investigated in search of information. The best notes of them in the library of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, with the kind permission of the Council of the College, were copied for the University; they proved most useful to the author of the catalogue.^ The notes read like verbatim reports ; probably they were taken in shorthand and re-written ; comparison ^ Several sets of notes were examined, and, to a certain extent collated. There are no less than seven sets in the College of Surgeons, but some of them ^ire very brief notes, and several are incomplete. The excellent set copied for Glasgow University was made up from three different ones. The anatomy lectures from No. 42, c. 2S-29; the midwifery from No. 42, c. 31 ; the operative surgery and one or two other short parts from No. 42, c. 25, which is not so perfect as the other two, but was the only one that contained these lectures. There is a good set in the Royal College of Physicians of England, and an excellent set in the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh.