61 INJURIES OF BONE. driven forwards through the skin, provided an entrance for pyogenic organisms. The knee-joint has not been involved primarilj', but the osteomyelitis has extended down the lower fragment into it. The joint has ankylosed by bone. As in the preceding a couple of bars pass between the condyles of the femur and the head of the tibia, with a gap between which represents the cavity of the joint. The fracture has been comparatively recent, and the bone uniting the fragments is rough and porous; the cancellated tissue of the ends of the femur and tibia is very open, and the outer firm layer, where it has not been destroyed in maceration, is very thin and full of large pores (rarefying osteitis). The inner condyle is united to the tibia by a broad bar of this same spongy bone ; the outer seems to have been still incompletely fused with the tibia. Between the fragments of the femur is a considerable cavity, which probably contained a sequestrum. 3.71. Transverse Fracture of the Patella. Firm Fibrous Union. Huiiterian. LL. 18. Patella with quadriceps tendon, ligamentum patellae, and head of tibia, sawn longitudinally showing the above. Before section the patella could be felt to be in two fragments, separated on the front by a depression about 2 cm. wide. Behind they are close together, and the line of fracture is marked by a row of fibrous tags. They are set at an angle of about 165° to one another. Very slight flexion at the seat of fracture was all the movement possible, the union being almost as firm as if it were osseous. On section the fragments are seen to be united by a wedge of very dense fibrous tissue, its base (in front as indicated above) measuring 2 cm., its apex behind about 5 mm., and its thickness from back to front fully 1-5 cm. The fractured surfaces are covered with a thin irregular shell of dense bone, to which the fibrous wedge is attached. A very strong union. 3.72. Ununited Transverse Fracture of the Patella. Fibrous Connection with the Fragments widely separated. Hunterian. LL. 20. Patella with portions of the tibia and tendon of quadriceps, showing the above. The upper fragment is 6-5 cm. above the lower, and connected with it by a fibrous band rather thinner