XIV HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. impression of the opinions of William Hunter, and of the extent and M'onderful accuracy of his knowledge, than the old one. The connection of the collection with these works is discussed in the Introduction. In the arrangement of the collection great changes have been made. The old catalogue of the jar preparations was divided into 42 series, each named with a letter of the alphabet (series A, series B, etc., and after series Z, series AA, series BB, etc.), and the numbers of the specimens began afresh with each series. Each series contained specimens illustrating both normal and pathological anatomy—usually the anatomical ones first and then the patho- logical, but frequently they were mixed up together. A few of the series were arranged somewhat after the order in which the subjects they illustrate were treated in William Hunter's lectures or published papers : but even these required rearrangement. The division into series also, though on an anatomical basis, was not satisfactory. It was therefore decided to make a completely new arrangement, the only part of the old plan which was retained being the recom- mencement of the numbers with each series. In the first place the anatomical preparations were separated from the pathological. Then a division of them into classes was made on the usual physiological basis, e.g. Class I., The Skeleton and Organs of Motion; Class II., The Circulatory System, and so on, as will be seen in the table of contents. Each class was then divided on the same principles into a number of series, and corresponding to each anatomical series there was formed a pathological series, which was placed immediately after it. There are a few exceptions to this rule of alternate series, e.g. where from the large number of morbid specimens of bones two series were made—(1) Injuries and (2) Diseases of Bones; and where there was no pathological series to correspond, e.g., to the series Glands and series Incubated Egg". From the small number of specimens available in some of the classes the subdivision into series has not been carried very far—not nearly so far as in the great collection of the Royal College of Surgeons of England—and no general pathological series has been made. It is impossible in any arrangement to avoid the over- lapping of series, or to avoid separating preparations which on various grounds it would be advisable to keep together. To obviate the inconvenience arising from these causes, numei'ous cross references have been given under the descriptions of specimens which it is desirable to compare with others in other parts of the collection.