PREFACE. XV For the internal order of the anatomical series a standard text book of anatomy, viz. Gray's, was taken, and the preparations arranged to illustrate it, so far as they are capable of doing so. This arrange- ment agrees very well with the way in which the subject is treated in William Hunter's Lectures, which, indeed, as the prototype of modern courses of anatomy in Britain, are probably the germ out of which the modern text-book of anatomy has developed. The plan of arrangement of the pathological series is substantially that which Mr. Charles W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E., has described and applied in the first volume of the Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. The specimens in each series are arranged in five groups, with headings, as follows : I. Congenital Abnormalities. II. Injuries. III. Preparations illustrating alterations due to conditions, local or general, affecting Nutrition. IV. Changes due to Inflammatory Diseases. V. Tumours. Speaking generally, this plan was found to produce a satisfactory basis for arranging every series except Internal Parasites, Monstrosi- ties, Calculi and Concretions, and part of the series dealing with Pathological Conditions complicating Pregnancy. The scheme of arrangement is given in full in the table of contents which appears at the beginning of each series, and is indicated right through the series, the beginning of each group being indicated by its Roman numeral and heading in capital letters. To this there are a few exceptions—series in which there were so few specimens that it was not detailed. Perhaps, with a view to the growth of the collection, this may be a defect in the catalogue, but as the scheme is implied in the order of these series it will probably be as easy to find the proper place for new specimens in them as it will certainly be in those in which the scheme is given at length. It was considered advisable to divide one or two of the series into sections, e.g. Series 11, Diseases of the Heart and Blood-Vessels, which was divided into Section I., Heart and Pericardium, and Section II., Arteries and Veins; and each section was arranged according to the usual plan. The specimens were too few to make two separate series. Group I. comprises all those minor defects and malformations of congenital origin which are so limited in extent as not to warrant placing the subject of them in the category of a monstrosity.