INTRODUCTION. Ixi William Hunter was peculiarly unfortunate in having theories wrongly fathered upon him. The now discredited hypothesis that the cyanosis was due to the mixing of the blood of the right and left ventricles from the imperfection of the septum has been attributed to him ever since 1855 at least. His writings show no trace of any such opinion. He attributed the cyanosis to "the want of the full effect of respiration on the blood," of which, from the malformation, only a part passed through the lungs.^ Purchase did not bulk largely in the formation of this part of the museum. Besides the preparations bought at Falconar's sale. Hunter (apparently about 1778) purchased for £200 the collection of Dr. Francis Sandys, formerly a practitioner and a teacher of anatomy in London, which was rich in injected preparations and dissections of the eye, but none of the preparations from it can be identified.' Hunter mentions him as the inventor of the method of rendering preparations translucent by means of turpentine; a kind of preparation of which there are manj' examples in the collection. He also mentions him as having discovered the mem- brana pupillaris, and as having possessed preparations of it; there are several examples of this in the museum, but they may be Hunter's own, as he records that he succeeded in injecting it himself.^ In the list of his unpublished works Simmons* mentions that William Hunter " had long been employed in collecting and arranging materials for a history of the various concretions that are formed in the human body." He had "nearly completed that part of it which relates to urinary and biliary concretions, and prepared a number of illustrations for it before his death." No MS. connected with this Avork can be found beyond a number of short notes regarding various specimens, but there are 21 plates (with proofs) containing a large number of figures, nearly all taken from the calculi and concretions, of which there are several hundred, in his collection. The notes are utilized in the present catalogue, and references are given to the figures, which are very well executed and accurate engravings. The original sketches, for the most part in red chalk, by Van Rymsdyk, are also in the museum. ^ This historical error has at last been corrected by Dr. Laurence Humphry in Clifford Allbutt's System of Medicine, 1898, vol. v., p. 722. ^ Simmons, p. 14, is the authority for this purchase. He does not give the date. ^ Medical Commentaries, p. 62. '^Op. cit., p. 50.