HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 114 5.118. Syphilitic Disease of the Skull. Hunterian. The vertical plate of the frontal bone, which is divided into two halves by a frontal suture, macerated and dried, illustrating the above. There are numerous irregular erosions of the outer table into the diploe, and on the right through the inner table also. Most of these have cleanly cut edges, showing that the process of ulcera- tion was advancing. Others have rounded edges, as if healing had commenced. The whole bone is thickened, and very heavy from filling up of the spaces of the diploe with new dense bony matter. This specimen is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. X., Flate II., fig. 1, as a representation of "the effects which venereal disease commonly produces upon the bones of the cranium." This is a comparatively rare occurrence nowadays. 5.119. Sequestra separated by Syphilitic Disease of the Skull. Hunterian. Two sequestra from different cases cleaned and dried. The larger is an irregularly ovoid portion of the vault of a cranium, measuring 14 by 9 cm. It resembles the sequestrum in No. 5. 117, but is denser and less eroded on the surface. A considerable area of it includes the whole thickness of the skull; the rest is irregularly scooped out internally and externally, and here and there perforated, by the granulations which effected its separation from the living bone. The other sequestrum is similar, but much smaller. It is much more rarefied and eroded, and consists almost entirely of external table and diploe. 5.120. Syphilitic Disease of the Skull. Sequestra in Pro- cess of Separation. Hunterian. A cranium macerated and dried, showing the above. The vault is perforated clean through by five holes, of circular shape, from 1'5 to 3 cm. in diameter, almost certainly the result of syphilis. The holes are slightly wider in the outer than in the inner table, and widest of all in the diploe. The bones as a whole are thickened, and the diploe sclerosed. Two of the holes in the frontal bone have coalesced. Beside these is an area showing the manner in which these are formed—inflammation, then necrosis of a circular patch of bone, which is separated by rarefying osteitis round about. In the pos- terior region of the right parietal is a circular patch of rarefied bone