67 INJURIES OF BONE. 3.90. Fracture of the Tibia in the Lower Third, united in good position. Hmterian. Left tibia macerated and dried, showing the above. The line of the bone is well preserved; there is only a little bending backwards of the lower^ fragment; no projection of either, and very little thickening. 3.91. United Fracture of the Lower End of the Tibia into the Ankle-joint. Osteo-arthritis Hunterian. Left tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. The fracture has been a splitting of the lower end of the tibia from the joint, such as might be caused by landing heavily on the feet. A considerable fragment has been split off from the outer and posterior edge of the articular head of the tibia, and driven up between the tAvo bones. Inflammation of the bone and joint has followed, the articular head has been more or less destroyed, and the astragalus has formed a new bed for itself about 1-5 cm. above its former position. Part of the old surface can be seen beside the internal malleolus, which seems to have been fractured also. The joint is widened by an abundant forma- tion of new bone, which has soldered the fragments of the tibia and the fibula into one solid mass. The new formation of bone, consequent upon the osteitis, extends about half-way up both tibia and fibula. On the front of the former there is a round flat elevation of bone, which was probably formed below an ulcer. 3.92. United Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula involving the Ankle-joint. Hunterian. Left tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. A fairly old fracture, but the lines of it are still recognizable by the porosity of the new bone covering them. The fracture of the tibia suggests impaction of the shaft into the lower end by a blow on the heel. It has been driven like a wedge into the cancellous head, splitting it into three fragments, which can be traced projecting slightly, one outwards, another inwards, and the third in front. The last is detached by a crack extending across the articular surface near its anterior edge. The outer border of the articular surface has been thrust up considerably above the inner. The fibula has been broken through its lower