HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 84 5.36. Osteomalacia of the Humerus. Hunterian. LL. 4. Left humerus from an adult, "case unknown," showing the above. The bone is bent in several different ways, and is soft, though not altered to such an extreme degree as the tibia and femur of the previous case. 5.37. Distortion of the Thorax due to an Abnormal Soft- ness of the Bones. Hunterian. The three lower cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae with the ribs, except the three lowest on the right and the lowest on the left, partljr macerated, cleaned, and dried, showing the above. The deformity consists in (1) kyphosis, affecting chiefly the upper dorsal region, and consequent narrowing of the intercostal spaces reducing the vertical depth of the chest; (2) falling in of the ribs anterior to the angles, so as to decrease the width but to increase the antero- posterior depth of the chest and project the sternum forwards; (3) curving of the sternum with the concavity forwards, slight; (4) the chest as a whole is twisted so that the left side is larger than the right. The lateral flattening looks as if the patient had lain chiefly on his side during the course of the disease. The bones are abnormally light and flexible, the cancellous tissue being increased at the expense of the solid. Between the angles and the insertions of the serratus magnus on the ribs there are healed fractures—of sixth, seventh, and eighth on the right, and of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth on the left. Several of the ribs on the left side show also ununited fractures, but whether vital or post mortem cannot be determined; there is no trace of repair about them. Several of the ribs of the right side show, mostly in their anterior parts, partial fractures like what is produced on bending a quill. There is no thickening of the ends of the ribs like in rickets, nor is the deformity that which occurs in that disease. The condition of the bones is more like osteomalacia. There is neither history nor former description of the specimen. (C) COMPARATIVE PATHOLOGY. 5.38. Bending of the Bones of a Monkey dying of Pul- monary Tuberculosis. Recent Fracture. Presented by Professcrr Young. Articulated skeleton of a sm.all monkey, which had been long in captivity and was the subject of advanced phthisis. About 24 hours.