1G3 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. laginous and bony bodies are hung to it by the same thread. These lay loose in the cavity of the joint, but had originally lain against this middle portion of cartilage." The joint is not in the collection It may have been a case of arthritis deformans, in which such bodies are common, or it may have been a simple chronic arthritis. 6.55. Arthritis Deformans of the Knee-joint. Slight. Hunterian. Right femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The specimen shows scoring and eburnation of the internal condyle, and considerable osseous outgrowths around the edges, more particularly of this condyle. There is practically no deformity of the articular surfaces, and the movements must have been fairly free. 6.56. Arthritis Deformans of the Knee-joint. Very Ad- vanced. Hunterian. Lower half of left femur and upper half of corresponding tibia macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The specimen shows a very advanced condition of the disease. The articular surfaces are much altered in shape by destruction of the articular cartilages, and destruction or conversion into bone of the semilunar cartilages, and osseous outgrowths around and upon them. The femoral surface, which now articulates with the tibia, is a rough somewhat flattened one, occupying the parts of the condyles, which look downwards and slightly backwards. These are cut off from the hindermost parts of the condyles and from the patellar surface by lines of bony outgrowths. The head of the tibia presents a correspondingly rough flat surface. There is a certain degree of interlocking between the bones, which must have interfered with movement almost as much as actual ankylosis would Tiave. The tibia is displaced outwards and rotated, so that a line along its anterior edge would pass clear to the outside of the head of the femur. This displacement is compensated for by broadening of the ends of the bones—the extension in the case of the femur being mostly outwards, in the case of the tibia mostly inwards. There is a sort of facet on the outer side of the femur, just at the level of and encroaching on the articular surface for the patella, showing that the latter had been dislocated outwards, and had lain upon this instead of in its proper position. There must have been a