COMPARATIVE PATHOLOGY. 85 before its death, which was artificially hastened, it was attacked by another monke}', which chewed its left arm off about the upper third of the humerus. The upper fragment remains, and shows the irregular jagged edges characteristic of a recent fracture; there are no teeth marks. Most of the long bones show an abnormal bending, usually most marked towards one end,—which is the upper in the humeri and tibiae, lower in the radii, ulnae, femora, and fibulae. At and around the seats of curvature the bones are thickened and porous—a periosteal formation of new bone. The affected areas are all in the diaphyses. The epiphysis of the right radius seems also to be enlarged. Apparently a sort of rickets. 5. 39. Rickets in a Monkey. Andersonian Collection. Skeleton, articulated, of a monkey, history unknown. A young animal; the epiphyses not being united to the diaphyses. All the bones, including those of the cranium and vertebral column, appear unduly porous. All the long bones are thickened and more or less ourved in an abnormal manner, the direction of the curves, as in rickets of human beings, corresponding to the direction of the strains ■on the limbs. The epiphysial lines are very markedly irregular. III. Inflammatory Changes in Bone. (1) Specimens illustrcttive of Osteitis in General. 5.40. Rarefying Osteitis. Hunterian. Part of an ulna divided in longitudinal section, to show the above. Macerated and dried. The outer shell of the bone, which should be ■dense and firm, is extremely porous like cancellous bone. Internally the bone is of very similar structure. Here and there, amid the rarefied tissue, are larger trabeculae—remains of the old dense shell. The marrow cavity has been encroached upon by new cancellous bone. Probably from a case of acute suppurative osteomyelitis. The cavities in the interior of the bone were probably abscesses. 5.41. Condensing Osteitis about an Old Fracture. Hunterian. The lower part of a fibula, divided longitudinally, macerated and dried, showing the above. The fracture had long been healed. The