EUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 128 of the tumours being a good deal broken in places. The lower end of the femur, as a whole, seems to be enlarged. Rising from the inner and posterior side, about 7 cm. above the surface of the condyle, is a rounded irregular mass of cancellous bone, 8 cm. in diameter, and projecting fully 9 cm. Around the base, where it is somewhat constricted, it has a smooth shell of dense bone like that of the normal cancellous head. The rest, the greater part, of the surface is tuberculated, and, where still unbroken, covered with a thin shell of fairly dense porous bone like that bordering upon an epiphysial cartilage ; from what is known of such tumours it may fairly be assumed that those parts were sheathed with cartilage, like the osseous tissue in the preceding specimen. Above the outer con- dyle projects a similar much smaller tumour. To the outside of this is a broken surface of open cancellous bone, probably the base of a third tumour. Above is a spine like an ossified tendon. In front, just above the edge of the articular surface, is another large broken surface with raised borders of smooth dense bone, clearly the site of a fourth tumour; the base is fully as large as that of the first men- tioned tumour. From the inside of the tibia, about 2-5 cm. below the articular surface, rises yet another tumour similar to the first. It measures 7 cm. vertically by 5 cm. across, and projects 5 cm. The head of the fibula is expanded and ankylosed to the tibia by a mass of similar cancellous bone. The lower ends of the two bones are also expanded and fused together for a distance of about 6 cm. in a considerable mass of similar bone. 5.168. Exostosis of the Humerus. Hunterian. A humerus macerated and dried, showing the above. The tumour consists of a globular mass, about the size of a marble, of open can- cellous bone set on a somewhat narrowed base. Its apex is porous, and was probably covered with cartilage. It rises from the back of the humerus, rather to its outer side, about the middle. There is a rising of the dense bone from above downwards, from which the tumour is continued for about 2 cm. backwards and downwards, overhanging its base below for a distance of about 1 cm. A groove, like the musculo-spiral, runs above and to the outside of it; but below and to the inside is a deep groove beneath the overhanging portion, which probably transmitted the nerve or superior profunda artery, and over the lower shoulder of the tumour, close to this, is a second somewhat similar groove. It appears to be related to the origin of the outer rather than of the inner head of the triceps.