60 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. wards and forwards, running into the articular surface of tlie knee- joint. The lower fragment is tilted backwards, so that its upper end is about 3 cm. from the back of the upper fragment. This gap is filled up by an irregular mass of bone, closing the medul- lary cavity of the lower fragment. Below this mass a large gap leads into the medullary cavity of the upper fragment. The position is very good and the union strong. It does not appear as if the movement of the joint would have been impaired by the injury to the edge of the articular surface. 3.69. United Fracture of Lower End of Femur involving the Knee joint. Probably Compound. Suppuration in Fracture and Knee-joint. Ankylosis. Huniman. Portions of femur and tibia and patella macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The fracture, which from the smoothness of the callus was a very old one, had passed somewhat obliquely from behind forwards and downwards through the lower third of the femur, involving the upper border of the articular surface of the knee-joint. The lower fragment was tilted backwards, and the upper, which was displaced very much forwards, had probably pierced the skin just above the patella. The fragments are united by a thick curved pillar of bone rising from the top of the lower to the back of the upper. From the point of the upper a spur of bone passes down to the patella, which in turn is firmly ankylosed to the articular surface of the front of the lower frag- ment. From either condyle of the femur there passes to the tibia a thick strong bar of bone, oval in section, being com- pressed laterally. Between these there is a large hole, about 4 cm. by 2'5 cm., which extends upwards and downwards into the cancellous heads of the bones. The thigh and leg have formed an angle of about 135° with one another—the limb bent forward. 3.70. United Fracture of the Femur in the Lower Third. Probably Compound. Suppuration. Destruction of Knee-joint. Ankylosis. Huntenan. Part of femur and tibia macerated and dried, illustrating the above. This specimen resembles the last, being a fracture in the lower third passing obliquely from behind and above downwards and forwards ; probably the sharp end of the upper fragment, being