166 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 6.63. Arthritis Deformans of the Hip-joint. Hunterian. Eight femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. There is a collar of new bone round the neck, as in the preceding; but there is much more alteration in the shape of the head, which is eburnated and rubbed down on the top, where it has been most pressed upon. The eburnated portion is full of fine holes leading down into the cancelli. Where there has been no friction, the bone is eroded in an irregular manner, as if by the action of granulations. The neck and upper third of the shaft of the bone show considerable periostitic thickening. The knee shows the typical outgrowths of arthritis deformans around the edges of the articular surface. 6.64. Arthritis Deformans of the Hip-joint. Hunterian. Left femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The shape of the head is altered, as in No. 6. 62, by osseous outgrowths round the neck and fossa for the ligamentum teres. The articular surface is very dense and smooth, and shows a friction area over the upper and anterior part of the head round about one-third of its cir- cumference from back to front, looking as if a thin slice had been pared off with a sharp knife and the raw surface polished. The knee, linea aspera, and great trochanter also show characteristic osseous outgrowths. 6.65. Arthritis Deformans of the Knee and Hip. Htmterian. Right femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The head is very little altered, showing only slight osseous outgrowths about the edge of the articular surface and insertion of the liga- mentum teres. The trochanters and shaft of the bone, especially along the linea aspera, and the knee-joint, all present evidence of the disease in the shape of osseous outgrowths. 6.66. Arthritis Deformans of the Hip-joint. Hunterian. Upper half of the left femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. There is a wide and thick osseous collar about the neck, and the pit for the ligamentum teres is quite filled up. The head of the bone is rubbed down on its upper and posterior surface, and full of irregular holes leading into the cancellous tissue.