xvii PREFACE. tion' has been avoided. Such headings as ' Necrosis,' ' Periostitis,' and 'Syphilis,' are commonly used as co-ordinate yet distinct sub- divisions of bone disease; but as the first indicates result, the second locality, and the third causation, the groups are not mutually exclusive, and uncertainty and confusion are the necessary conse- quence." Result and locality have been used in a few instances as secondary means of subdivision within the larger groups formed upon the basis of causation where specimens happened to be nume- rous, as under diseases of bones and diseases of joints. The group, then, includes all changes the result of reaction against irritants, except the direct results of violence, gross foreign bodies, or poisons; it includes therefore specimens from the specific fevers, suppurative diseases, and the specific new formations such as tuber- culosis and syphilis. Group V. has been split up into the clinical divisions, Innocent Tumours and Malignant Tumours; and then further subdivided prin- cipally according to the microscopic structure. The clinical histories, where any at all was available, were of the briefest description, and rarely of much assistance in forming a diagnosis. The microscopic examination, as might well be expected from the age of the speci- mens, was often unsatisfactory. In some cases it was necessary to fall back on the naked eye appearances and the statement of the old catalogue as to the nature of the tumour. On the whole, it is surprising how much light the microscopic examination of speci- mens which have been from 150 to 120 years in spirit was able to give as to their nature. The results of these examinations were entered in a note-book, which is referred to in the catalogue as "MS. Notes, J. H. T." The specimens within the groups are arranged in the natural order of the sequence of events; first the early stages of the affection, then the more advanced, and lastly the processes of repair. As in the old arrangement, wet and dry specimens are not separated from one another. Each specimen is designated by its series number and its number within the series, the former appearing first in large black type, and the latter immediately after it in a smaller type; and following that each specimen is provided with a title in bold type indicating briefly the nature of the specimen and the principal points, anatomical or pathological, which it illustrates, after the plan of the late Sir George Murray Humphry's Catalogue of the Cambridge University Museum, which is now being adopted in so many other museums. Then follows in small type an indication of its source; b