INTRODUCTION. XXIK Biographic Medicate, "he is to be regarded as one of the greatest anatomists of last century.". The notes begin with Lecture IV. —"Nov. 19th, N.S."—which was "Of Bones." The last which is dated was on 26th March, 1744, and there are several after that which are not dated. The course therefore lasted at least five months, and consisted of about one hundred lectures. William Hunter's attitude towards the lectures is decidedly critical. He had done work that entitled him to criticise. He has taken very full notes of many of the lectures, but a considerable number of them he dismisses with the remark that " they contained nothing new." He had reason to differ from his master in regard to the articular cartilages, and to judge by the papers he published within the next few years, he found many other points open to criticism and correction. Possibly, just as Smellie was disappointed with the French teaching of midwifery, so Hunter may have been dis- appointed with the French teaching of anatomy, considering the reputation of the anatomists, and the facilities which they enjoyed. At the same time this course must have proved invaluable to him. It was infinitely superior to anything he could get at home. The advertisement of his lectures^ mentions specially that "gentle- men may have the opportunity of learning the art of dissecting, during the whole winter season, in the same manner as at Paris." Even before this trip to Paris it is certain that he aimed at becoming a teacher of anatomy. In a letter of September 17th, 1743, he writes of accepting a partnership in a practice of a certain Dr. Owen, son-in-law of Dr. John Douglas, who had " died about two months ago," "as the only way to settle in my darling London, to give lectures," and though he does not here specify what the subject of the lectures was to be, there is no doubt it was anatomy.2 There is also a letter to Cullen in May, 1746, saying, "among many other things that take up my time at present, I labour most at a compendious system of anatomy and physiology, which will be necessary to be before me in the winter, should I at last enter upon my old scheme."^ The same year saw his ambition realized. In the same volume 1 Quoted in Two Great Scotsmen, Glasgow, 1893, p. 33, by George K. Mather, M.D. ; and in Paget's Joh7i Hunter, p. 24. ^ Paget's John Hunter, p. 42. The letter is dated simply Sept. 17th. John Douglas was a brother of Hunter's friend, James Douglas. He died on June 25th, 1743. Diet, of Nat. Biography. ^Thomson's Cullen, vol. i., p. 22.