164 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. degree of genu valgum, with considerable eversion of the foot. There is considerable thickening and roughening of the surfaces of the shafts of both bones by chronic periostitis; the lines of attachment of various muscles and fasciae in particular shovi^ osseous outgrowths. 6.57. Arthritis Deformans producing Ankylosis. Kunterian. Upper end of right tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. The knee-joint has not been much affected, but there are a few of the osseous outgrowths round the articular surface. There is a cavity in the inner side of the head of the tibia just under the joint, but not communicating with it. The tibio-fibular articulation is very strongly ankylosed. There are some little outgrowths around the ankylosis, which point to its having been produced actually by arthritis deformans. 6.58. Arthritis Deformans of Knee, Ankle, and Upper Tibio-Fibular Joints. Ankylosis of Last. Hunimim. Right tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. Around all the joints the usual extensions of the articular surfaces are well developed, and, in addition, there are very striking pro- jections, corresponding to the attachment of various muscles, ligaments, fasciae, and interosseous membrane. There is no evi- dence of loss of the cartilages and friction of the bones. The upper tibio-fibular articulation is ankylosed much as in the preceding. The ossifications are more irregular and more related to the ligamentous structures than in any of the preceding specimens. 6. 59. Arthritis Deformans (?) of the Ankle-joint. Hunterian. Left tibia and fibula macerated and dried, illustrating the above. There is very little new-formation of bone, and that is not typical, but there is marked alteration in the shape of the articulation. The lower end of the fibula shows a shallow concave surface looking downwards and slightly inwards, as if it had rested on the top instead of the side of the astragalus, and the inner part of the