INTRODUCTION. xlv finished it; it is the work on which his reputation mainly rests.i In the introduction he says :—" In consequence of Dr. Hunter's death this business has now fallen on me. I should have had no small share in it if he had lived ; for I had made almost all the pre- parations from which the drawings were made, and from which the description would then have been and now is taken." " In the present publication we have many reasons to regret the loss of Dr. Hunter. It has so happened that we shall be able to derive no advantage to it from his fortune, which has been otherwise disposed of. The work, from this circumstance, cannot appear at present with the number of plates it would have done had he lived to publish it himself. We have also sustained considerable loss in being deprived of his extreme accuracy, good taste, and unwearied per- severance." Nevertheless the work was at the time the most com- plete account of the lymphatics that had ever been published. It was the summing-up of all the work that William Hunter and Cruikshank did upon that system. " Almost all the injections from which the drawings were made are still preserved in Windmill Street;" and, of course, are now in Glasgow University. The wet ones are still in perfect preservation ; the dried dissections injected with mercury, as such always do, have long since decayed and become useless. In addition to the preparations of the lymphatics, Cruikshank made many contributions to the museum that are worth mentioning. His paper on the structure of the skin and on insensible perspiration ~ was illustrated by preparations which are almost all there. Further, those which form Series 47 have been identified with a series of experimental dissections on the subject of generation which " were made upon rabbits, at the expense of Dr. William Hunter, in 1778." ^ Moreover, there are also three preparations which have a curious and interesting history. Dr. Robert Kennedy, in the course of his researches upon the regeneration of nerves,** identified one of them 1 The Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels of the Human Body. By William Cruikshank. London, 1786, 4to ; 2nd edition, 1790. It was translated into French, German, and Italian. - Experiments on the Insemible Perspiration of the Himian Body, slioiving its Affinity to Respiration. 8vo. London, 1795. It had already appeared in imperfect form along with some other matters in 1778. ^ The Experiments on Generation appeared in Pldl. Trans, in 1797, vol. Ixxxvii., p. 197. ^" On the Regeneration of Nerves," by Robert Kennedy, M.A., B.Sc, M.D., Glasgow, Phil. Trans., vol. 188 (1897), p. 257.