151 TUBERCULAR ARTHRITIS. 6.19. Tubercular Arthritis. Knee-joint. Ankylosis in Bad Position. Hunterian. Left femur and tibia, probably from a grave, illustrating the above. The limb has been flexed almost to a right angle. As in the pre- ceding, the dislocation backwards and eversion of the tibia are very marked. 6.20. Tubercular Arthritis. Knee-joint. Ankylosis in Bad Position. Marked Flexion. Hunterian. Eight femur and tibia, probably from a grave, illustrating the above. The leg has been flexed more than a right angle. The bones are smoothed off", and the space between the condyles filled up with bone, showing that it is an ankylosis of very old standing. There is a pick mark on the inner side of the femur. 6.21. Tubercular Arthritis. Knee-joint. Deformity of Ends of Bones. Interlocking. Fixation in Flexed Position. Hunterian. Lower end of the femur and tibia of left side macerated and dried, showing the above. From a young subject. The articular surfaces of the knee have been destroyed, and the heads of the bones fantas- tically excavated. The hollows and projections in the back of the condyles of the femur and top of the head of the tibia have then fallen into one another, and now interlock. The bones are rather con- densed, as if there had been a certain amount of repair in the way of osteosclerosis, with perhaps a little new-formation, increasing the interlocking. There has been flexion, dislocation behind the femur, and marked eversion of the tibia. 6.22. Distortion of Lower End of Femur. Tubercular (?) Osteoarthritis. Hunterian. A left femur macerated and dried. The lower end is decidedly increased in width, and its articular surface strangely distorted. The surface for the patella and between the condyles is destroyed, and deeply excavated back to the intercondyloid notch. Into the top of the excavation open a couple of holes, like cloacae passing into the shaft. The articular surfaces of the condyles are roughened, flattened, and slightly lipped round the edges in a manner suggestive