112 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. possible to be certain as to the nature of the disease; probably it was a tubercular abscess in the end of the bone with subsequent septic osteomyelitis. The specimen is placed here as an example of caries. 5.114. Rarefying Osteomyelitis. Caries. Tubercular and Septic. Hunterian. Lower portion of a tibia macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The cancellous end of the bone presents an eroded rarefied appearance as if it had been riddled with tubercular granulations. On the outside there is a considerable crust of periosteal new bone, indicating that septic infection had also been present. Introduced as an example of caries. • 5.115. Abscess in Bone. Osteosclerosis, Hunterian. Lower portion of a femur, divided longitudinally, macerated and dried. In the lower third of the diaphysis there is an irregular elongated cavity extending from about 3 cm. above the epiphysial line upwards for about 5 cm. The bone around it is widely can- cellous. There are several small incompletely detached sequestra here and there. The cavity opens by a narrow round orifice on the front of the bone near its upper end. The cancellous head of the bone as a whole is very considerable sclerosed, and the marrow cavity above is filled with a decidedly dense porous bone. The outer walls are thickened and condensed behind, but rather rarefied in front. Externally, there has been some periosteal new bone-formation. An old standing disease evidently, and whether septic or tubercular it is now impossible to say. Probably a chronic tubercular affection originally, to which septic organisms have obtained access on the formation and opening of an abscess in the soft tissues over the orifice of the cloaca. The bone is that of an adult. 5.116. Abscess of Bone. Probably Tubercular followed by Septic Osteomyelitis. Involvement and De- struction of Knee-joint. Hunterian. Lower portion of femur—a longitudinal section, including the external condyle, removed from about half of one side to show the