HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. no solid white sequestrum like in the preceding. It looks more like a caries of the whole inside of the bone leading to new-formation all over the exterior. The shaft is thickened, but its form is fairly well preserved. 5.60. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Limited Necrosis. Formation of New Bone. Hunterian. Right femur macerated and dried, showing the above. A transverse section has been cut out of the middle of the diseased area. From the surgical neck to below the middle of the bone there has been necrosis of about one-third of the circumference of the shaft and separation of a thin sequestrum of the outer layer of the dense wall. The section shows the cavity in which the sequestrum lay, separated from the medullary cavity b}'^ a thin shell of fairly dense bone, and overlaid externally by a very thick mass of porous new bone. The outline of the old shaft is distinct behind and a little way round the sequestrum cavity at one side, showing that in parts at least the necrosis did not reach the surface of the shaft. Behind, where there has been no necrosis, the surface is covered with a thin crust of new bone. The thickening of the femur is very considerable. About the middle of the diseased area there is a cloaca through which the sequestrum is visible. (c) Restoration of Bones after Separation of Necrosed Portions. 5.61. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Multiple Seques- tra. Formation of Thick Strong New Shaft. Hunterian. One half of a tibia, divided longitudinally, macerated and dried, showing the above. The middle region of the shaft, from about 3 cm. from either epiphysial line, is a thick pillar of dense externally tuberculated bone pierced here and there by about a dozen cloacae. These lead into cavities which can be seen in the cut surface. Most of the sequestra have fallen out. Those that remain are thin and small. In front the line of the old shaft is traceable, though the new bone is of hardly different texture. The place of the old medullary cavity is occupied by sclerosed cancellous new bone. The posterior wall is composed of dense bone fully 1 '5 cm. thick, not quite as solid as the normal dense shaft and of irregular structure, the pores