INJURIES OF BONE. 53 downwards and forwards to the anterior inferior spine, and has united with considerable thickening in its lower and anterior part, but with a hole in the thin part of the ilium and a notch in the crest. Looking from the front the lower fragment seems impacted in the upper, the firm outer layers of which have been thereby driven apart. The upper fragment is thrown considerably down- wards and forwards. 3.45. Intra-capsular Fracture of the Neck of the Femur. Chronic Osteo-Arthritis. False Joint at Seat of Fracture, Hunterian. Head of a right femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The articular head of the bone is wanting, having possibly been left attached to the pelvis. The neck is very short, and its end is hollowed out into a sort of articular cavity. Round the edges of this the bone is polished and eburnated, and in the middle the cancellated bone is condensed. The lip of this cup is extended by new bone-formation. The top of the great trochanter and the anterior intertrochanteric line are covered by bony tubercles, the result of chronic osteo-arthritis. 3.46. Intra capsular Fracture of Femur. Non-union. Dis- appearance of Neck of Femur. Hunterian. Left femur macerated and dried, showing the above. The neck of the bone has disappeared, its place being marked by a slight hollow with a few osteophytic outgrowths around it on the inner aspect of the upper end of the shaft. The cancellous bone in the floor of this has become exceedingly dense, but is not polished like in the preceding. Probably this was a very old-standing fracture. The head of the bone is, of course, absent. 3.47. United Extra-capsular Fracture of the Neck of the Femur, with great Deformity and Extensive New Formation of Bone. Hunterian. Right femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The fracture has been very complex, and attended by great displacement of the fragments; it has healed, with very extensive new formation of bone, in a mass about the upper end of the femur measuring