INTRODUCTION. xxiii of that statute, though slightly amphfied by Acts of Elizabeth and James I., had become wholly insufficient owing to the progress of the science. These statutes granted to certain medical corporations for dissection a few bodies of criminals who had been executed, and gave protection to the demonstrations which were given upon these bodies to the members of the corporations and their apprentices. But these " public anatomies " were not sufficient for those members of the profession who properly appreciated the value of anatomical knowledge and desired to improve it, and consequently " private anatomies " were held, the material for which had to be obtained by the anatomist as best he could. The " private anatomies " at first were objected to by the corporations, who were jealous of any infringement of their legal rights, but gradually they came to be tolerated, and early in the eighteenth century had developed into somewhat imperfect courses of public lectures by private teachers. How imperfect they were may be learnt from William Hunter's Introductory Lectures,^ and from various other sources. The only course which Hunter attended in London, " which was by far the most reputable that was given here," was that of Dr. Frank Nicholls, who " professed to teach anatomy, physiology, and the general prin- ciples of pathology and midwifery in thirty-nine lectures"; and " Mr. Nourse of St. Bartholomew's embraced totam rem anatomicam in twenty-three lectures." - Nicholls used only two bodies in his course. Of dissection by the students there was hardly any, since the lecturers could with difficulty procure only as many bodies as were absolutely necessary for the public demonstrations of the prin- cipal and well-known parts of the body. "Hence it is that the students never learn the practical part, and therefore never become anatomists ; and the teachers themselves can hardly make improve- ments, because they cannot have subjects for private experiments and enquiries." On the continent the position of anatomy was far better, as bodies for dissection were legally provided; and the facilities which English students found abroad, and the great advances which they saw had been made in consequence thereof, had also stimulated the ^"Introductory Lectures, delivered by Dr. William Hunter, to his last Course of Anatomical Lectures, at his Theatre in Windmill Street: as they were left corrected for the press by himself." Published by his Trustees. London, 4to, 1784. -Ottley's Life of John Hunter, p. 4, Palmer's Edition of Hunter's Works, vol. i., London, 8vo, 1835.