INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 93 to be of very little service, as the cauterization only produced exfoli- ation of as much tissue as it killed, and that was only the superficial layers, whereas the disease generally extended through and through the bone, and therefore some of it was certain to be left behind. (Lectures, p. 165, MS. E.C.S.Eng., 42, c. 28.) The whole sequestrum is loose; it is enclosed in a thick tuberculated case of new bone, which has preserved the length and, to a less degree, the form of the bone. As in the preceding, it is thickest and strongest where the outer layers of the wall of the bone have not shared in the necrosis. The principal gaps in the new shell are opposite to and extending for some little distance around the areas where the cautery was applied. The epiphyses have not been detached, as in the preceding young bone, but both have been invaded by the disease. The lower with its articular surfaces has been almost completely destroyed. The upper is rarefied, excavated, and contains sequestra, and there is some erosion around the edges of the outer articular surface ; the knee- joint was therefore probably in a state of suppuration also. It is obvious that an operation on the new case of bone would have been necessary for the liberation of the sequestrum. 5.58. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Necrosis. Form- ation of New Shaft. Hunterian.- Lower portion of a tibia macerated and dried, showing the above. The disease has affected chiefly the lower half of the shaft, but has extended into the epiphysis also. There are a number of small thin dense sequestra enclosed in the new case of very open porous bone. Several cavities higher up on the front of the shin are widely opened,, and the sequestra have fallen out. Shows the characters of recently formed new periosteal bone, detached sequestra, and the cloacae through which the pus escaped. 5.59. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Regeneration of Shaft by Periosteal New-formation of Bone. Hunierian. An ulna macerated and dried, which from end to end appears to consist of new-formed spongy bone. In the lower third is a hole through it which probably contained a sequestrum. At this point it is bent slightly. At several other points there are cloacae within which can be seen rarefied and apparently necrosed bone. There is-