HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 138 at least it felt as hard as bone, and was smooth, rising from its extreme boundary, as in swellings of bone. It gave her no un- easiness, and I advised doing nothing. Her friends desired me to examine it after death. She had continued well till within a short time of her death, when she became gradually sleepy, and more and more insensible till she died, after two or three days of total insensibility. It was a case similar to that of Hoquet's (Series 43, No. 62, Carcinoma of Testicle), and of the old man in Monmouth Street, and the case by Mr. Wathen" {vide No. 5. 180a). The tumour is somewhat similar in appearance to the i^re- ceding, but there is no expansion or new-formation of the bone, which has simply disappeared and been replaced by tumour tissue. The line of it is traceable in the tumour, which seems to have grown inwai'ds and outwards from it. The growth is covered with peri- cranium external!}', and by dura mater internally, except in parts where it has passed through it, and projects inwards as a number of soft naked fungations. Microscopically, it consists of a well-formed fibrous stroma, containing an abundance of nests of epithelial cells. A carcinoma, almost certainly secondary, but to what it is im- possible to say. There is no bone in it; the hardness was probably due to tension. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 35.) 5.184. Carcinomatous (?) Tumours of the Skull. Probably- Secondary. Hunterian. A skull macerated and dried, showing a number of excrescences and erosions, jjrobably the result of secondary cancerous infection of the diploe. It is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. X., PI. L, fig. 1, and is described as follows: "In this plate are represented two diseases of the cranium. The one consists of bony excrescences which assume a sort of oval form. They are composed of bony spicula resembling crystallizations, which grow from the outer, and also from the inner, surface of the cranium. The original bone of the cranium at these places is absorbed and in this disease a double process would appear to be going on at the same time, viz. the absorption of the original bone, and the formation of the new bone in the shape of spicula or crystals. Of the nature of this disease nothing is accurately known, but it has been sometimes regarded as cancerous." In the light of our present knowledge, it may be said, with much probability, that the disease is the result of carcinoma, which had become dis-