341 HEALING OF NERVES AFTER SECTION. 22.29. Amputation Neuromata from a Stump of the Arm. Hunterian. E. i\a. An artery and vein and three nerves, showing the ends of the last swollen out into rounded knobs three or four times the diameter of the nerves. 22.30. Healing of Nerves in their Course. Hunterian. E. 38. The larynx, trachea, carotid arteries, and "par vagum " (pneu- mogastric) and " intercostal" (sympathetic) nerves of a dog. The nerves were divided, and are seen to have united again, " the dog recovering in proportion as the union proceeded." There is a considerable swelling of the right nerve at the point of union ; the left presents two small oval swellings at a distance of about ■1 cm., the gap being filled by a cord much thinner than the original nerve. This specimen was identified by Dr. Robert Kennedy. It is figured, and the experiments with which it was related are described, in Philosophical Transactions, 1796, Part I., p. 177, under the title, " Experiments on the Nerves, particularly in their reproduction," by Wm. Cruikshanks. He states that the par vagum and intercostal or sympathetic in the dog adhere so closely to one another in the neck that they were divided as if only one nerve. The nerves on the right side were first divided; the chief symptoms produced were inflammation of the right eye and respiratory difficulties. In a few days the dog had improved greatly, and at the end of three weeks " had perfectly recovered." The nerves on the left side were then divided, and the same symptoms appeared as after the first operation. In a fortnight "he was nearly as well as before the operations." He was then killed for examination. "The viscera were to all appearance sound"; " the divided nerves of the right side were firmly united, having their extremities covered with a kind of callous substance." " The nerves of the left side were also perfectly united," but the regenerated nerves were smaller than the original, and "did not seem fibrous like original nerves." The experiments seemed, he thought, to prove completely the " circumstance of regeneration of nerves." The experiments were performed, and the account of them was read to the Royal Society as early as