226 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. illustrates the tendency of atheroma to obstruct the branches of arteries at their origin; also the contraction of an artery into a fibrous cord, which occurs after obliteration by any cause. Compare Nos. 11.22 and 11.23, Obliteration of Arteries by Ligature. 11.52. Large Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta. Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. The specimen consists of the heart, trachea and thyroid gland, oesophagus, aorta with a large aneurism rising from its arch, and parts of the left first rib and left lung. The ascending aorta, the origin of which can hardly be seen from the outside for the sac pressing on the heart, enters into the bottom of it by a somewhat oblique aperture, and about 5 cm. to the left of this the descending aorta passes out. The large vessels all arise from the sac—the innominate and left carotid at such acute angles that they must have been considerably obstructed. The vena cava superior is seen stretched over the top of the lower division of the sac. The sac is constricted in its upper third, and the portion of rib which remains shows that the larger, lower sac, measuring 15 cm. broad by 11 cm. deep by 12 cm. high, lay in the thorax, and the smaller, measuring 7 by 7 by 6 cm., lay in the neck, reaching up to the lower border of the thyroid gland. The trachea and oesophagus are pushed to the side, but are not adherent to the sac. The walls of the aneurism are thick, and lined with laminated coagulum. The heart is hypertrophied, and, to judge by the way the aneurism presses down on it, must have been considerably displaced downwards and to the left. There was a large gap in the front of the upper division of the sac through which it had been stuffed; whether rupture had occurred or not it was impossible to determine. The anterior wall of the sac has been cut away to show the interior. It is an expansion of fully three inches of the aorta in an upward and forward direction. 11.53. Aneurism of the Aorta projecting into the Lung. Rupture into Bronchus. Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. The heart, aorta, bifurcation of the trachea, and part of the upper lobe of the left lung, the aorta opened from behind. From