INTRODUCTION. xlvii pupils who left Hunter when they split. He returned to him "as assistant in anatomy after the death of Hewson." In 1777 he started a school of anatomy on his own account. He succeeded WilHam Hunter as professor of anatomy in the Eoyal Academy in 1782. But the best part of the anatomical museum is the obstetric collection. This comprises over four hundred preparations, ana- tomical and pathological, which represent all that is permanent of the material foundations of the works on which chiefly rests the fame of William Hunter, viz. "his immortal work, The Anatomy of the Human Gravid Uterus exhibited in Figures," which, in the words of the late Dr. Matthews Duncan, " is one of the stable foundations of the science and art of midwifery, and cannot fail, in all future ages, to be as valuable and useful as it is now," and the little incomplete volume. Anatomical Description of the Human Gravid Uterus, left unfinished, and published after his death by Matthew Baillie, which was intended for a systematic description of the parts figured in the greater work, and an exposition of the physiology of these structures. The merits of these works are universally acknowledged. Thej^ contain the foundations of our present knowledge of the anatomical relations of the gravid uterus, and of the anatomy of the decidua, placenta, and foetal membranes. In particular, the nature, origin, and anatomical relations of the decidua are here described and figured as well as they are now or can be. His discoveries in this part of the subject Matthews Duncan, about forty years ago, characterized as " all true and containing all the truth," a statement which, even now, requires hardly any qualification. He carried the knowledge of these structures up to a point beyond which no advance could be made until the advent of the new science of histology. That has added an infinity of details which were beyond the reach of the means of research at Hunter's command, but has found little to correct in the descriptions which he wrote 120 years ago. " The more this great work on the anatomy of the gravid uterus is studied, the more extraordinary and unparalleled will its accuracy be found in every particular." ^ Most of the illustrations and descriptions in these works can still be verified by reference to the original preparations from which they ^Researches in Obstetrics. Edinburgh, 8vo, 1868, p. 223. The essays col- lected "after more or less of change" into this volume were published separately, for the most part in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, between 1855 and 1867.