CARGINOMATA IN BONE. 137 of semi-globular shape, largely composed of coarse fibres running perpendicular to the surface of the dura mater, and sheathed with a fine soft membrane, pia mater, to judge from the number of vessels hanging from it. Here and there are fragments, apparently of brain tissue, which have doubtless adhered through being involved by processes of the growth. Microscopically, it consists of masses of cells (very badly preserved), lying in the spaces of a well-developed fibrous stroma; clearly carcinoma, probably a secondary infection of the marrow in the diploe. No details of structure, sufficient to ally it to any of the organs commonly the seat of such tumours, can be made out. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 34.) It is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. X., Plate v., fig. 1, but the description gives no additional infor- mation. 5.182. Bony Framework of a Carcinoma of the Skull. Hniiterian. A portion of the vault of the ci^anium macerated and dried. It has been recognized as the other portion of the preceding. Rising, symmetrically to the middle line, from the parietal and temporal bones is a semi-globular mass of osseous trabeculae, mostly running vertical to the surface of the cranium, with wide cancelli between. In the cut surface, this is seen to consist of an outer layer, in which the plates are much thicker, and which appears to be an expansion of, and new formation from, the outer table. Inside this layer the spicules of bone are finer, and the centre, which in the other specimen does not contain any bone, is now an empty space open to the interior of the skull. Round the edges inside, there has been a slight amount of a similar expansion of the inner table. Rarefaction of both tables and diploe extends some little way outside the circle of actual tumour. It measures 8-5 cm. in diameter by about 3 cm. in height. 5.183. Secondary (?) Carcinomatous Tumour of the Skull. Pressing on Brain. Hunterian. EE. 27b. "A portion of the skull, dura mater, and posterior lobe of the cerebrum from an old gentlewoman, aged about seventy. A tumour rose gradually on the occiput. She consulted me about two years before. It appeared to me to be a swelling of the bone itself;