1 HUNTSMAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. found to be of the same date, which make twelve certainly in this period of 4 years. Plates Nos. XVI.-XX., XXIII.-XXIV., XXVIL- XXVIIL, and part of XXIX. date from 1764 ; Nos. XI.-XIL, XXV., and the rest of XXIX. from 1765; No. XIV. from 1766. Three drawings are dated 1770, and one 1772, all of which are in Plate XXXIV. Of the undated plates Nos. XIII., XXL, XXII., and XXXIL, from their style seem to belong to the early period of the work, viz. 1750 to 1754. Writing in 1764^ he mentions that "six- teen plates were finished . . . several years ago," a statement which lends probability to the above opinion as to the date of these four. Nos. XXX. and XXXI. probably belong to the middle period, 1764-66; and No. XXXIII. to the last, the style and subjects of the figures in that plate being exactly like those of Plate XXXIV., the date of which, in part at least, was 1770-1772. There was thus a long break after 1754 in which little was added to the work; then under date of March 15th, 1764, he writes : "At last, on the 11th of February, I was so fortunate as to meet with a gravid uterus, to which, from that time, all the hours have been dedicated which have been at my disposal. I have been busy in injecting, dissecting, preserving, and showing it, and in planning and superintending drawings and plaister casts of it, neither of which can possibly be finished for some time."- The year 1766 saw the work nearly complete. The first ten plates are represented in the museum by a number of plaster of Paris casts. These were taken actually from the same subject, and show the same stages of the dissection as certain of the drawings; they were subsequently coloured after nature. "The whole of them are exactly nature herself, and almost as good as the fresh subject. We have a good many of them to help us on; they are most useful, especially where it is so difficult to get a subject of this kind to explain upon in a course of lectures." ^ No preparations can with certainty be identified with these, except that from which the last figure of Plate X. (a supplementary one from another case) was taken; some of Nos. 22 to 23 of Series 48 may have been from the same uterus, as the injection corresponds to that described in the plates. Then there are seventeen prepara- tions which represent the foundations of twenty out of the remain- ing twenty-four plates. Naturally the preparations are now seen 1 Medical Commentaries, Supplement, p. 33. "^Ihid., p. 32. 3 Midwifery Lectures, MS., R.C.S.,Eng., 42, c. 31, p. 1.