Ixvi HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. which are now hidden from us ; by the same sagacity we should discover the true causes and nature of diseases, and thereby be enabled to restore the health of many who are now, from our more confined knowledge, said to labour under incurable diseases. By such an intimate acquaintance with the economy of our bodies, we should discover even the seeds of diseases, and destroy them before they had taken root in the constitution." Finally, his aims in teaching anatomy are summed up in the two following paragraphs.! u Anatomical lectures being intended to serve as a solid foundation for two such important arts as medicine and surgery, a teacher cannot take too much pains to render them useful; and if he is limited in time it will require more particular care that the most essential things be well ex- plained. And with that view he must be satisfied with touching more lightly such things as are of less importance and even to pass over many things of little use, though perhaps curious, for in the study of nature there is no end if we give way to curiosity." " With this view of my situation in life, I have always studied, and shall continue my endeavours, to employ the time that is given up to anatomical studies as usefully to the student as I can possibly make it. And therefore shall never aim at showing what I know, but labour to show, and describe, as clearly as possible what they ought to know. This plan rejects all declam- ation, all parade, all wrangling, all subtlety. To make a show, to appear learned and ingenious in natural knowledge, may flatter vanity; to know facts, to separate them from suppositions, to range and connect them, to make them plain to ordinary capacities, and, above all, to point out the useful application is, in my opinion, much more laudable, and shall be the object of my ambitions." From tradition we have ample testimony that he carried out the purpose expressed in these words. Perhaps the best expression of it is to be found in Sir Benjamin Brodie's Hunterian Oration in 1837.2 "I am not aware that there is anyone present of such an age as to remember what William Hunter was as an anatomical teacher. But tradition supplies the place of memory; and I have, in the early part of my life, so frequently heard him spoken of in that capacity by older persons, that it seems to me almost as if I had been myself his pupil. He is reported to have been at 1 Introductory Lectures, p. 98. 2 Works, collected edition, by Charles Hawkins, 1865, vol. i., p. 443.