97 INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 5.68. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Necrosis. Ex- tensive and Irregular Formation of New Bone round Sequestra. Hunterian. LL. 40. A large verj^ irregular mass of porous new bone formed around the necrosed shaft of a femur, macerated and mounted in spirit. The rarefied condition of the new bone suggests that the shaft had been restored, but that the disease was still active and attacking the new bone. The epiphyses had been detached. The irritation which gave rise to such an amount of new bone-formation must have been of very long duration. (e) Results of Operation in Acute Supptirative Osteomyelitis. 5.69. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Trephining the Medullary Cavity. Hunterian. Left tibia macerated and dried, greatly thickened in its lower two- thirds by periosteal new-formation. The disease seems to have been chiefly in the interior of the bone, and there are several small cloacae leading into it, in which, however, no sequestra are visible. On the shin are two trephine marks, about 2 cm. in diameter, with sharp edges, showing that they had been made no long time before the removal of the bone from the living body. The one disc of bone remains firmly fixed. The other had been removed, and a portion of the adjacent bone had broken away with it—this one had opened an abscess in the medulla. 5.70. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Necrosis. Tre- phining the Medullary Cavity. Hunterian. Shaft of a long bone, probably tibia, macerated and dried, showing great thickening by periosteal new-formation, necrosis and separation of a number of sequestra, and six trephine holes of about 2 cm. diameter in a row down one side of the bone, opening the sequestrum and medullary cavities. There are also several cloacae. The thick- ness of the new bone drilled through shows that trephining was performed at a very late stage of the disease. The cut edges are slightly rounded off, showing that the bone remained in the living body some time after the operation. G