xlii HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. and it is natural to suppose that they are absorbed through the same passages as matters not poisonous." i How such substances as mercury could be absorbed into the blood-vessels against the supposed force which " strained " the lymph out of them was incon- ceivable to him. The phenomena of osmosis, if they do not explain it all, at least make it comprehensible, but they and the influence of the activity of the living cells were discoveries undreamt of till many years after Hunter. When, about 70 years later, his great theory was overturned, the old theory of exhalent arteries and inhalent veins, which no one could demonstrate, and the existence of which William Hunter declined to admit, was revived, only to be dropped again in due course. One of the greatest objections urged (by Monro) against the theory that the lymphatics were the only absorbents was that they did not exist in birds, reptiles, or fishes ; and it then became necessary to demonstrate their existence in those orders of animals. This was accomplished in William Hunter's school of anatomy. John's health broke down soon after he made his experiments on absorption, and he appears never to have made any more of importance, but he discovered the lymphatic vessels in birds and in a crocodile. In 1759 he had pneumonia, and after that he was threatened with consumption. Finally, in 1761, he went abroad with the army, and his connection with his brothers school and museum came to an end. His place was taken by another of William's pupils, viz. William Hewson, a physiologist of great ability. Hewson at first was assist- ant, but after a time he was taken into partnership, receiving a share of the profits of the school, and giving a considerable number of the lectures.' Hewson continued the study of the lymphatics with great success. His papers, describing them in birds, reptiles, and fishes, were presented to the Eoyal Society by William Hunter in 1768 and 1769, and he received the Copley gold medal awarded to the person who, in the opinion of the president and council, had, within the year 1769, "contributed most to the advancement of science and useful knowledge." He also published ^ MS. Lectures of William Himter in the library of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, 42, c. 28, p. 104. -In 1846 the Sydenham Society published a complete edition of Hewson's works, with a biographical introduction, under the editorship of George Gul- liver, F.R.S. Information as to him is obtained principally from that volume and from Hunter's writings, and from the various biographies of the Hunters.