108 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. consisting of about 17 cm. of the shaft of a long bone (femur ?), wliich has evidently necrosed from the sawn surface up to the epiphysial line above. Around it is a fairly complete shell of new bone formed by the periosteum, thickest about the extremity. It is pierced by several cloacae, and partly broken down to show the sequestrum. There is neither history nor description. Probably it was obtained on the death of the patient from pyaemia or exhaustion by long continued suppuration. 5.100. Septic Osteomyelitis after Amputation. Enlarge- ment of End of Stump of Bone. Hunterian. Short portion of a tibia macerated and dried, showing the above. In the upper (sawn) surface is seen a circle of the old dense shell of bone enclosed in a sheath of new periosteal bone from 3 mm. to nearly 1 cm. in thickness. There is about 3 cm. of shaft of this new bone, then a rounded knob of similar new bone forming the end of the stump. The lower surface of this is eroded, and more open than that of the shaft. The medullary cavity is open and partly filled with adipocere. The old dense shell is partly rarefied, partly dense, and does not appear to be necrosed. The enlargement is the result of long continued inflammation. 5.101. Septic Osteomyelitis after Amputation. Necrosis. Enlargement of End of Stump in consequence of Irritation by Sequestra. Hunterian. A large rounded mass of spongy bone similar to the preceding. In the sawn surface can be seen the outline of the old shaft, the dense shell very much rarefied. There are also cavities containing sequestra, and opening by cloacae on the end and one side of the mass. 5.102. Septic Osteomyelitis after Compound Fracture. Sepa- ration of Sequestrum. Hunterian. Lower portion of the tibia, showing a large sequestrum, the upper end of which shows the sharp edges characteristic of a fracture. The lower end is enclosed in a sheath of new-formed bone; it is loose, and on removal shows the irregularly eroded ends charac- teristic of a sequestrum.