156 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 6.35. Tubercular Arthritis. Elbow-joint. Changes in the Bones. Hunterian. Lower portion of a right humerus macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The dense plate forming the face of the articulation is extensively eaten away and perforated with little circular holes. There are also several rounded cavities, about the size of peas, underneath it, which were probably tubercular centres. There is a considerable periosteal incrustation on the epicondyles and shaft, doubtless due to secondary septic osteitis. (b) specimens showing the natural cure of the disease. 6.36. Tubercular Arthritis. Elbow-joint. Natural Cure by Ankylosis. Good Position. Hunterian. Humerus and ulna, probably from a grave, solidly ankylosed to one another at an open angle, about 135 degrees, and in good line, i.e. with a slight bend inwards at the elbow. The line of union is not traceable, except behind along the edge of the olecranon. The radius is absent; it had not been ankylosed to the other two. The articular surface for it on the ulna has not been materially altered; that on the humerus is reduced to a flattened circular table, corre- sponding with the shape of the top of the head of the radius. This shape of articular surface probably allowed of movements of rotation, which would be all that would be allowed by the circumstances of the other two bones. From the smoothness and absence of thick- ening of the bones at the seat of ankylosis, it has evidentlj' been a very old affection, and probably free from septic complications. 6.37. Tubercular Arthritis. Elbow-joint. Natural Cure by Ankylosis. Good Position. Hunterian. Humerus and ulna, probably from a grave, illustrating the above. The position is similar to that in the preceding, and the radius is absent, not having participated in the ankylosis. The ends of the bones and the shafts in the vicinity of the joint are considerably enlarged. The surface of the bone is of dense texture and fairly smooth, showing that the disease had long been extinct. The articular surface for the radius is rougher than in the preceding, but otherwise similar. The thickening was doubtless due to the