STRUCTURE AND VARIETIES OF BONES. 3 cylindrical shaft of compact bone, and the "great medullary cavity," which is occupied in parts by a network of fine bony fibres. For the bone marrow which fills the space and the inter- stices of the cancellous bone, see No. 42 of this series. Dry. 1.4. Structure of the Ends of Long Bones. /. H. T. 1897. Anterior portion of the lower third of a human femur, macerated by boiling. Shows the shaft as in the preceding, the compact walls thinning and the medullary cavity becoming more filled with the network of bony fibres down to the end, which is composed entirely of cancellous tissue encased in a thin shell of firm bone on the sides and over the articular surface. The plates of the cancellous tissue run in regular parallel lines perpendicular to the articular surface, with numerous cross plates at irregular intervals. The compact bone being porous, the difference between it and the cancellous is only of degree, the spaces being larger in the latter. Dry. 1.5. Cancellous End of Long Bone. Hunterian. I. 3a. Transverse section of the head of the tibia and fibula, showing the same as the preceding. Macerated and dried. 1.6. Cancellous End of Long Bone. Hunterian. I. 3&. Section of the same tibia immediately below the preceding. Dry. 1.7. Cancellous End of Long Bone. Hunterian. I. 36. Transverse section of the same tibia immediately below the pre- ceding. These three sections are in series from above downwards, and they show the gradual increase in the shell of compact bone, and the decrease of the cancellous tissue till it disappears, leaving the marrow cavity as in Nos. 3 and 4. Dry. 1.8. Structure of Head and Neck of Femur. /. H. T. 1897. Head and neck of a femur sawn longitudinally, and macerated by boiling, showing the arrangement of the compact and cancellous bone to meet the strains to which it is subjected. In the upper part of the shaft the fibres of the cancellous tissue rising from the firm outer wall pass obliquely upward, forming a