ANEURISM. 223 extends into them. The left carotid and vertebral arteries are stretched over the sac and are patent, though the thrombus can be seen almost covering their origins. The left subclavian rises from the aorta, just clear of the sac. (Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. I., PI. Ill, No. 2.) 11.47. Penetration of the Chest by Aneurism. Erosion of the Ribs. Hunterian. KK. 5, " The anterior half of an aneurism, with a portion of the ribs and sternum. It appears larger than No. 3 (No. 11.45), and to have continued longer, for the ribs are in some places totally obliterated." The perforation is through the first and second right intercostal spaces, the second rib being almost totally destroyed, and the first and third ribs and the sternum considerablj^ eroded. The internal sac is 11 cm. in diameter, and the outer fully as large; the aperture between them 9 cm. by 3 cm. below, and rather less above, the second rib. At the edges the sac is firmly united with the periosteum. 11.48. Laminated Thrombus ejected from an Aneurism after Penetration of Chest and Sloughing of Skin. Hunterian. S. 3a. The corresponding aneurism is lost. The case is fully described by William Hunter: " The History of an Aneurysm of the Aorta, with Some Remarks on Aneurysms in General" {Med. Obs. and Inq., Vol. I., p. 323). The patient, a staymaker, act. 39, attributed the disease to a strain at his work while weak after an illness, nine months before the appearance of the external swelling—about three years before his death. The symptoms were at first uneasiness in the chest; later, pain in the region where the swelling afterwards appeared, darting into the right shoulder; teasing cough, "great anxiety and labour in his chest, and difficulty in breathing." When first seen, he had an oblong swelling between the costal cartilages of the second and third ribs of the right side, 2 inches by 1^ inches by J an inch high. The skin was not discoloured. The tumour was hard; could be made nearly to disappear on pressure, but with a good deal of pain and oppression. There was a strong pulsation synchronous with the heart. The pulse was regular; for some months it was wanting in the left arm and temple,