92 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. (h) JFhere Regenerative Processes after Separation of Necrosed Portions have advanced some Distance. 5.56. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Destruction and Separation of Epiphysis. Necrosis of whole Dia- physis. Partial Formation of New Shaft around Sequestrum. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. A tibia from an adolescent subject, macerated and dried, showing the above. The sequestrum inckides almost the whole length and circumference of the shaft. The disease has extended into the lower epiphysis (mount lower end up), almost destroying it and involving the tibio-fibular and ankle joints. The sequestrum is enclosed in a case of new irregular porous bone which has formed around it, and would have prevented its discharge. This case is imperfect opposite where the whole thickness of the shaft has necrosed, and best formed where part has survived. In the latter region the new shaft is fairly well developed, and the rarefied remains of the old shaft can be recognized lining its interior and forming a foundation to it; here the new bone has clearly been developed between the periosteum and the living old bone. Where no old bone has survived, the new case has formed chiefly, but not entirely, by sprouting laterallj' from the living old bone; but there is a fairly strong band of new bone right up along one face of the sequestrum where, from its ap[)earance to the naked eye, the periosteum has been stripped clean from its surface without any bone adhering; at this place the new bone must have been formed from the deep layer of the periosteum. The upper epiphysis has not been affected. The periosteal new bone is present in a thin layer right up to the epiphysial line. Compare history of specimen. No. 5. 73. 5.57. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Destruction of Epiphysis. Necrosis of whole Diaphysis. Partial Formation of New Shaft. Hunterian. LL. 55. An adult tibia macerated, cleaned, and mounted in spirit, showing the above. There is an enormous sequestrum including the whole* length and nearly the whole circumference of the diaphysis. Only on the inner side is the old surface of the bone present, and there it is black and charred, probably, to judge from the accounts in the medical literature of the eighteenth century, by application of the actual cautery, a proceeding which William Hunter very rightly held