176 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 6.88. Tubercular Disease of the Vertebrae. Collapse. Angular Curvature. Hunterian. A vertebral column with portions of all the ribs, cleaned and dried, united by the remains of the ligaments, illustrating the above. There has been destruction, more or less complete, of the bodies of the vertebrae from the seventh dorsal to the first lumbar, most complete in front. A very extensive collapse has ensued, as was common in the days when efficient means of support- ing the diseased column were not so universally employed as they are now. The laminae and articular processes have been ankylosed by bone. There is a sharp but evenly rounded curve behind. In front, the upper dorsal and lower lumbar vertebrae meet at a very sharp angle, the anterior surface of the body of the eighth dorsal resting on and having partly ankylosed with the anterior surface of the first lumbar. 6.89. Tubercular Disease of the Vertebrae. Angular Curvature. Ankylosis. Hunterian. Left half of vertebral column from the fourth dorsal to the tip of the coccyx, with the fifth to the tenth left ribs and scapula, partly macerated, cleaned, and dried, illustrating the above. There has been almost complete destruction of the vertebral bodies from the fifth dorsal to the first lumbar, followed by collapse and a certain amount of ankylosis. The bones are from a young subject. They are all very light, and widely cancellated. The ankylosis is altogether in the articular processes and laminae. Disease was probably still active. 6.90. Tubercular Disease of the Vertebrae. Angular Curvature. Ankylosis. Hunterian. Left half of the vertebral column from the axis to the twelfth dorsal, with the scapula, clavicle, ribs (first to tenth), and half of the sternum, of a young subject, partly macerated, cleaned, and dried, showing the above. The disease has aff'ected the bodies from the sixth to the twelfth, chiefly in front. Collapse has followed. The ribs are huddled close together. There is firm ankylosis between the laminae and articular processes, and to a less degree between the remains of the bodies of the affected vertebrae.