INFLAMMATION OF BONE DUE TO SYPHILIS. 115 without any sequestrum, and near the lambdoid suture one of the perforations shows the process of extension—about 5 mm. outside the edge of the hole all round there is a circular trench cutting off a ring of bone the whole thickness of the vault; internally the groove of separation is still incomplete—just a ring of rarefaction. 5.121. Extensive Destruction of the Vault of the Skull by Syphilis. Hunterian. A skull cap macerated and dried, illustrating the above. There is an enormous nearly square gap, measuring 9 cm. by 7 cm., mostly in the left parietal bone but extending slightly into the right, clean through the skull; due doubtless to the separation of a large seques- trum. The gap in the inner table is as large as that in the outer. The whole thickness of the bones for some little distance around the edges is rarefied and eroded by granulations in a peculiar manner, produqing a worm-eaten appearance. In the right parietal, just outside the edge of the large gap, there is a small irregularly rounded hole about 1 cm. in diameter, with its edges rarefied and eroded in the same peculiar manner for about 1 "5 cm. all round. There is another similar small perforation and part of a larger eroded patch in the frontal bone. The latter has been cut across in the preparation of the specimen, but it looks as if it must have extended doM'n to about the supra-orbital ridge. There has been slight periosteal new-formation of bone around the diseased areas outside the line of advancing rarefaction. There is no history, but it is almost certainly syphilitic. 5.122. Syphilitic Disease of the Skull. Healing after Separation of Sequestrum. Hunterian. A cranium macerated and dried, illustrating the above. In the frontal bone, extending from the coronal suture almost to the supra- orbital ridges and nearly the whole breadth of the forehead, is an excavation of irregular shape, measuring about 9 by 7 cm., its edges shelving down all round towards the centre, where there is a perfora- tion into the cranial cavity of irregular rhomboid shape, measuring 7 by 3*5 cm. The borders of this excavation are dense bone, the spaces of the diploe being obliterated by condensing osteitis. The excavation appears to be just what would result from the separation of a sequestrum like No. 5. 119, in which a large area of the outer