HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 132 shaft of the radius. The articular head appears to be intact. The tumour is cut open in front. It consists of a very soft friable tissue permeated with spicules of bone. Microscopically, it is a round or short spindle-celled sarcoma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 10.) The arteries are coarsely injected red. A number of points of injection mass are visible in the cut surface of the tumour. 5.175. Central Sarcoma of the Head of the Fibula. Hiinterian. Tibia and fibula macerated and dried. The head and upper third of the shaft of the latter is expanded into a globular shell about 12 cm. in diameter. The back of the tumour has been removed, showing the cavity, from which all tlie soft contents have disappeared in pre- paration. The wall of the shell is of porous bone, externally fairly smooth, but internally very irregular ; it is fenestrated in some parts, in others fully 1 cm. in thickness. In front there is a deep groove, as if the expansion of the bone had been limited by a tendon, fascia, or large nerve. The tumour is united to the surface of the tibia by bone ; the latter bone has, however, no part in it. The specimen is undoubtedly the skeleton of a tumour similar to No. 5. 173. There is no history, but it is mentioned in the old catalogue as a "spina ventosa." 5.176. Large Sarcoma of the Femur. Central (?). Hunterian. Lower portion of the femur, the head absent, broken off apparently just below the trochanters, macerated and dried. In front of the upper third of the shaft is a large verj' imperfect shell of porous bone, similar to that shown in the preceding, evidently the outer parts of a sarcoma of the bone. It appears to have been of globular shape, and about 17 cm. in diameter. The upper portion of the shell of the tumour, with nearly all of the part of the shaft from which it sprung, is absent; but the upper end of the fragment, to which it is still attached, has evidently been part of its seat, as it is slightly expanded and its medullary cavity enlarged. The growth appears to have been of central origin. A length of about 8 cm. of the shaft is overlapped by the tumour, but not involved in it; it is slightly larefied. Mentioned in the old catalogue as a " sjiina ventosa."