HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. either copy. The correctness of additions made by Hunter contrasts strongly with the incorrectness of the parts written by the amanu- ensis. In the newer-looking copy there are twenty-seven descrip- tions which are not given in the other. These are in the writing of the amanuensis. Hunter's interlineations contain one date—in the description of preparation CC. 106a (now No. 45.75)—"from a woman in the dissecting-room, 1782." The description of preparation P.23 (now No. 35.18) bears the words "beautiful 1777: yellow fades apace 1778." A group of specimens, 0.42ft (No. 33.46) and the following, is headed " added 1779." Also DD. 14 was " Cut off, 1780 "j these descriptions, in the handwriting of the amanuensis, are in their proper places, and continuous with the rest of the text. The bulk of the MS. was, therefore, prepared between 1778 and 1782, and the corrections and additions presumably were con- tinued up to Hunter's death on March 30th, 1783 ; there are none of later date. The MS. catalogue was clearly the work of William Hunter, and has been made use of as his in the preparation of the present catalogue. Others seem to have contributed to it, no doubt under his supervision. There are descriptions in the first person singular which may be referred to Hunter; others which speak of " Dr. Hunter " were the work of those whose aid he obtained. The University authorities did not at first print the MS. The general guide to the museum prepared in 1813 by Captain Laskey probably delayed action. But in this only a few descriptions are quoted in full from the MS., and other preparations are referred to briefly ; for medical students it was of small utility. In 1841 a catalogue in 290 closely-printed 8vo pages was printed by George Richardson, then University printer. The certificate by Dr. Hunter's trustees, copied from the title-page of one of the MSS., prefixed is as follows :— " The following catalogue is, to the best of our knowledge and belief, a true catalogue of the Anatomical Preparations left by the late Dr. William Hunter. g. fordyce. David Pitcairn. W. Combe." ^ There is no indication who supervised the printing of this volume, but its relation to the original MSS. is set forth in the " Advertise- 1 Should be Charles Combe, but the signature " Ch" might easily be read "W."