AiYATOMY OF THE EAR. 365 and forwards, so as to give a view of the mastoid antrum, tympanic cavity, vestibule, cochlea, and internal meatus with the auditory nerve. The anterior wall of the external auditory meatus, tympanic cavity, and Eustachian tube are also cut away, leaving the tympanic ring and membrane and the ossicles. Bristles are jjlaced between the incus and malleus, in the Eustachian tube, and in the vestibule. The carotid canal is also marked by a tied bristle. The preparation is also well seen through the top of the jar. 25.10. Vertical Transverse Section of the Ear, from behind. Hunterian. HH. 7. The left temporal bone and external ear of an adult divided in a plane passing through the external auditory meatus rather behind its centre and not quite transverse to the head, the inner end being a little further forward than the outer. This specimen, the anterior half, shows the external auditory meatus curved upwards about its middle and closed internally by the membrana tympani, which is placed obliquely with its upper edge considerably over- hanging the lower. Just outside the membrane the meatus bends forwards, and dips down into the little hollow in which foreign bodies so often lodge. The tympanic cavity is divided just behind the stapes, which appears with its head articulating with the long process of the incus and its base in the fenestra ovalis. Above the tympanum and inner part of the meatus, separated from them by a narrow bridge of bone, is the passage from the tympanic cavitj' into the mastoid antrum. Through it is seen the upper end of the malleus. The foramen with the bristle in it, in the inner and lower part of the above-mentioned bridge of bone, is the aqueduct of Fallopius containing the facial nerve, and the orifice above it is a section of the external semicircular canal. The roof of the tympanum (tegmen tympani) is thin and translucent, and there is also no great thickness of bone between the cavity of the antro-tympanic passage and the external audi- tory meatus. Of the internal eai is seen the anterior half of the vestibule with the fenestra ovalis, which is closed by the base of the stapes, the anterior orifice of the external (horizontal) semi- circular canal, and the passage into the cochlea. The internal meatus, with the nerves torn away, is seen just anterior to the plane of section.