103 INFLAMMATION OF BONE. bony plateaux correspond with the common position and shape of chronic ulcers extending round the lower part of the leg. They have rarefied and irregularly eroded surfaces, as if the ulcerative process had extended into and were destroying them. There has been some periosteal new-formation of bone on the surfaces of the shafts above and below, from the irritation due to the presence of the ulcer. There is no history of the specimen, but it has been compared with specimens in other museums, which are known to have been associated with ulcers. 5.84. Invasion of the Tibia and Fibula by an Ulcer of the Leg. Hunterian. Tibia and fibula macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The middle of the tibia is about half eaten through by caries, probably of septic origin, and due to an ulcer which has invaded the bone. The floor of the carious area is mostly composed of new formed spongy, irregular bone, but also shows portions of dense bone which had been formed in the medullary cavity, and were being destroyed again by rarefying osteitis. The ulcerative process has extended to the fibula, which shows a rarefied carious area in front. The two bones are ankylosed together by irregular processes of dense bone, which have shot out across the interosseous space in the vicinity of the ulcer. They are also thickened, irregular, and condensed above and below. From the patchiness of the new bone on the fibula there was probably a syphilitic element in the case. 5.85. Osteomyelitis the result of Invasion of the Tibia by an Ulcer. Rarefaction. Hunterian. Lower part of a very large tibia, sawn across near the upper end, macerated and dried. The whole bone is greatly thickened and very heavy. On the inner surface, about the junction of the lower and middle third, is a node-like swelling which was probably the base of an ulcer. This is rarefied and deeply eroded in various places. Just above the internal malleolus are two cloacae leading into a cavity which extends some way up the bone. From these two places all around, up the bone, the whole thickness of the shaft, and down into the ankle-joint, the tibia is eroded and opened out by a rarefying osteomyelitis. Whether this is the result of the ulcer invading the bone or of an acute suppurative osteomyelitis connected with juxta-