ANKYLOSIS OF THE SPINE. 181 6.103. Ankyloses of the Vertebral Column. Ossification of Ligaments. Ankylosis of the Costo-vertebral Ar- ticulations. Hunterian. Eight dorsal vertebrae with portions of three ribs attached, pro- bably from a grave. The specimen shows a condition very similar to that described in No. 6.101. The vertebrae are ankylosed into one piece by dense osseous outgrowths from the edges of the bodies and by ossification of the anterior ligament, which on the upper three is completely replaced by bone, and of the inter-spinous ligament. The latter is replaced by a bar of bone about 6 mm. in diameter. Portions of three ribs are fused with the bodies of the vertebrae by thick sheaths of dense bone around the joints; the joint cavities can be seen in two of them not to be obliterated. The inter- vertebral spaces are decidedly narrowed—especially the upper four. There is a slight increase of the normal curvature forwards, as in the preceding. 6.104. Ankylosis of Costo-vertebral Articulation. Hunterian. Part of a dorsal vertebra and rib, probably a graveyard fragment, showing a condition of the costo-vertebral joint very like that in Nos. 6.101 and 6.103. The lower of the two vertebrae with which the head of the rib articulated is absent. It had been ankylosed to the one which remains. There had been no ankylosis at the costo- transverse joint. Nearly the whole joint cavity between the head and the remaining vertebra is open, though in part the surfaces are roughened by new bone. The ankylosis is by a mass of can- cellous bone over the front of the joint, the cancelli of which are continuous with those of the rib, but separated by a line of dense bone from those of the vertebral body. 6.105. Ankylosis of Vertebrae. Hunterian. Four dorsal vertebrae, probably from a graveyard, showing the above. The bodies are united by thin plates of cancellous bone bridging the intervertebral spaces in front, and several of the articular processes are ankylosed to one another by plates of bone over the front of the joints. There is no fusion of the articular surfaces.