32 HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. "When an articulating cartilage is well prepared it feels soft, yields to the touch, but restores itself to the former equality of surface when the pressure is taken off. This surface when viewed through a glass appears like a piece of velvet. If we endeavour to peel the cartilage off in lamellae, we find it impracticable j but if we use a certain degree of force, it separates fiom the bone in small parcels; and we never find the edge of the remaining part oblique, but always perpendicular to the subjacent surface of the bone. If we view this edge through a glass, it appears like the edge of velvet, a mass of short and nearly parallel fibres rising from the bone, and terminating at the external surface of the cartilage; and the bone itself is planned out into small circular dimples, where the little bundles of the cartilaginous fibres were fixed. Thus we may com- pare the texture of a cartilage to the pile of velvet, its fibres rising up from the bone as the silky threads of that rise from the woven cloth or basis. In both substances the short threads sink and bend in waves upon being compressed ; but, by the power of elasticity, recover their perpendicular bearing as soon as they are no longer subjected to a compressing force. If another comparison was necessary, we might instance the flower of any corymbiferous plant, where the flosculi and stamina represent the little bundles of cartilaginous fibres, and the calyx, upon which they are planted, bears analogy to the bone." " Now these perpendicular fibres make the greatest part of the cartilaginous substance; but without doubt there are likewise transverse fibrils which connect them, and make the whole a solid body, though these last are not so easily seen, because, being very tender, they are destroyed in preparing the cartilage." 2.2. Structure of Articular Cartilage. Perichondrium. Hnnteriim. L. 2, "A portion of the lower end of the humerus, sawn through its cartilaginous covering, to show the same as No. 1." Rather, the bone has been sawn and then the cartilage broken, when it is seen that it splits perpendicularly to the head of the bone, and in the edge is seen the fibrous structure described in the preceding. The ends of the vertical fibres are seen to be covered by a thin sheet of cartilage in which no fibrillation is visible. This has been torn up from them in places, and projects from the broken edge as a distinct membrane. To quote from William Hunter's paper mentioned above, " We are told by anatomists that cartilages are covered with a membrane