370 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. can be traced to its attachment on the inner surface of the malleus at the root of the handle (manubrium). External to this is seen the first part of the long process (gracilis) running forward under cover of the tympanic ring. The auditory nerve with its artery, the cochlea, and the vestibule are seen as in the preceding; also the stapes, disconnected from the incus and with a bristle behind it indicating the pyramid and stapedius tendon. The petrous portion, in which the auditory apparatus is imbedded, appears very dense compared with the rest of the temporal bone. 25.25. The Middle and Internal Ear and Facial Nerve. J.H.T. 1896. Dissection of a left temporal bone, showing the auditory and facial nerves in the internal meatus. The latter, above the former, runs out into the geniculate ganglion, from which the great superficial petrosal branch (marked with a bristle) and a small twig to the tensor tj^mpani muscle are seen arising. It then bends sharply back, and is traced in its canal as far as a point above the fenestra ovalis. The former nerve is seen running into the base of the cochlea. The apex of the petrous bone has been broken off showing the cochlea in section, and the knee of the carotid canal and its relation to the cochlea and Eustachian tube. The facial nerve is seen emerging below from the stylo mastoid foramen, marked with a coarse bristle. 25.26. The Cochlea. Hunterian. HH. 49. Four different views of the cochlea mounted dry on blue paper. The right-hand upper one shows the cochlea from above; the upper left-hand one the cochlea, vestibulum, and semicircular canals from below and inside (?). The middle, a larger dissection, shows the cochlea, vestibule, and mastoid cells from below. ("From a young subject.") III. Specimens of the Organ of Hearing in the Human Foetus. 25.27. " The Whole Organ of Hearing from a Foetus." Hunterian. HH. 13. The left temporal bone and external ear, the external meatus dissected, showing its length and the membrana tympani; also the apex of the petrous bone removed, showing the cochlea in section.