141 TUMOURS OF THE JAWS. down on the side of the tumour near the angle between it and the left cheek. The fungation measures 14 cm. across, 13 cm. vertically, and projects 9 cm. from the line of the face. The growth has shoved down the palate, but has not invaded the cavity of the mouth nor of the cranium. Microscopically, it is a spindle-celled sarcoma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 20.) 5.190. Carcinoma of the Superior Maxilla. Htmterim. GO. 55. The left side of a head cut off by sagittal section passing through the forehead, anterior fossa of the skull, cavity of nose, and roof of mouth, just to the right of the falx cerebri and sejjtum nasi, and by a transverse section falling behind the angle of the jaw and great wing of the sphenoid, but in front of the ear and posterior wall of the pharynx; lower jaw and septum of nose afterwards removed. Described in the old catalogue as "showing polypous excrescences everywhere in the cavity of the nose, destroying the bones even of the orbit and the eye itself, and forming a tumour externally on the cheek." The left nostril is filled with tumour masses, upon which in the middle of the nose and hanging into the naso-pharynx, are several apparently innocent mucous polypi. It has not ajjpeared in the cranial cavity nor in the mouth. Microscopically, a portion taken from the large fungating mass on the cheek, though badly pre- served, shows the structure of a carcinoma. It probably originated in the antrum. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 57.) V. Alterations in the Bones froim Various Local Causes. 5.191. Skull of a Gymnast with Depressed Base. From Dr Allen Thomsun's Collection. The first three vertebrae and skull, the vault and lower jaw removed, macerated and dried. On the left side is written, "Car- downy, Gymnast (depressed base)." An extensive region of the base around the condyles is considerably pressed upwards. The alteration in position has affected the condyloid and basilar portions of the occipital bone, and the petrous portions of the temporal bones. All of these have been more or less raised. The elevation has been greater and more extensive on the right than on the left; the right condyle is at least 1 cm. higher than the left, its three