41 INJURIES OF BONE. frontal sinuses; the fragment of frontal bone has been driven down- wards and backwards between the eyes, carrying with it the bridge of the nose, after fracturing the left nasal bone and the nasal processes of the left superior maxilla. Union has occurred in this position, so that the cavity of the frontal sinuses lies bare in front, and the bridge of the nose is very greatly flattened. There is no Assuring of the orbital plates. The edges of the fragments are rounded off, showing that the fracture was old. 3.2. Depressed Fracture of the Skull. Presented by R. J. Marshall, M.D., 1896. Portion of the vault of the cranium macerated and dried, showing on the outside an oval depression about 2-5 cm. in diameter. The outer table is cracked round the edge of the depression and splintered; the fragments slope down to the centre, which is a small punched-out piece about 6 mm. in diameter, lying 7 mm. below the level of the surrounding bone. The inner table is driven in and splintered over a slightly larger area than the depression of the outer. From a patient in the mines of Rio Tinto, Southern Spain, who was struck by a falling piece of mineral, and died in the Rio Tinto Company's Hospital shortly afterwards. 3.3. Fracture of the Twelfth Dorsal and First Lumbar Vertebrae with Dislocation. Hunterian. The six lower dorsal, the lumbar vertebrae, and the sacrum showing the above. Cleaned and dried. In the absence of a history the nature of the violence which produced the fracture is unknown, but it appears that the upper part of the column has been driven forward, breaking off and carrying with it the right pedicle, lamina, superior articular process, and an edge of bone all round the front of the body of the first lumbar vertebra; while at the same time the arch of the twelfth dorsal has snapped through its pedicles, and is displaced upwards and backwards. The spinous process of the first lumbar is also broken. The displacement is so great that the anterior edge of the first lumbar corresponds with the posterior edge of the body of the last dorsal vertebra. The posterior edge of the body of the first lumbar is about 1 cm. from the lower edge of the arch of the last dorsal, which has been thrown up by the inter- locking articular processes. The spinal cord by this means may