HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 54 17 X 10 X 4-5 cm. The original lesions seem to have been a driving downwards and outwards of the head and neck of the femur between the trochanters, splitting off a fragment which includes the posterior half of the great trochanter, the lesser trochanter, and a splinter of shaft about 12 cm. long, and probably producing some splitting of the anterior part of the great trochanter also. The head of the bone has gone outwards with this posterior (upper) fragment, and the lower fragment being drawn up, it lies with its corona almost in line with the inner border of the shaft, and distinctly below the level of the great trochanter. The neck is united to the mass of new bone enveloping the upper end of the lower fragment. It is decidedly shorter than normal. There must have been considerable shortening of the limb. The head of the bone is turned slightly forwards. It is overhung in front by a large nodular mass of new-formed spong}' bone. 3.48. United Impacted Extra-capsular Fracture of the Neck of the Femur. Hunteriun. Left femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. As in the preceding case the neck of the femur has been driven into the cancellated bone of the trochanters, splitting the greater and dis- placing the posterior half of it. The fissure meets the inter- trochanteric line above the lesser trochanter, which is not at all affected. The head of the bone is below the level of the trochanter, and turned backwards, so that the limb must have been slightly shortened and everted, though, as a whole, the deformity is but slight. There is little new bone, but the great trochanter is widened antero-posteriorly. 3.49. United Fracture of the Femur in the Upper Third. Absence of the Head and Neck, and Formation of a new Articular Surface on the Inner Side of the Trochanters. Hunterian. Right femur, probably from a grave, illustrating the above. The lower end is wanting. The fracture has passed from above and before obliquely downwards and backwards, and union has occurred with the shaft drawn up outside and overlapping the upper fragment considerably. A mass of cancellous bone corresponding to the outer and upper part of the great trochanter has been rotted away, leaving id