98 EUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 5.71. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Drilling the Se- questrum. Hunterian. Lower portion of a tibia macerated and dried. About the middle is a large ulcerated depression in the internal surface of the bone with a sequestrum in process of separation in its centre. The sequestrum is blackened as if by the cautery, and perforated in numerous places by a fine drill—operations formerly used to encourage and hasten exfoliation. The bone all round it and through to the other side is rarefied—septic caries. On the less diseased surfaces of the diaphysis there is a thin crust of periosteal bone. Probably the leg was amputated below the knee after various methods of persuading the sequestrum to come away had been tried unsuccess- fully and probably with the result of extending the osteomyelitis. Compare, under Nos. 5. 57 and 5. 76, William Hunter's opinion of these proceedings. 5.72. Osteomyelitis. Gouging the Bone. Hunterian. Left tibia macerated and dried. A large heavy bone greatly sclerosed and thickened by periosteal new-formation. About the middle is a circular hollow about 3-5 cm. in diameter and 1 cm. deep the edges of which have decidedly the appearance of having been cut with a gouge. On one side they are dense, and have been rounded off by the vital action of the tissues; on the other they are rarefied by a process of septic caries. The floor of the hollow communicates with the medullary cavity. Continuous with the lower border is another shallower depression with rarefied carious floor. The history is unknown. Probably the bone was thickened and enlarged by chronic osteomyelitis and subject to deep-seated pains, for the relief of which it was gouged, and septic caries in the vicinity of the wound resulted. The enlargement has a very old chronic appearance; the lower part of it resembles a syphilitic node. 5.73. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Gouging of Bone. Septic Osteitis round Wound. Hunterian. Lower two-thirds of a right tibia macerated and dried. The bone is enlarged and dense, evidently the result of suppurative osteomyelitis of very old standing. There is a large cavity (no longer containing sequestra) with one large cloaca behind and two large ones in front. The walls of the first are of dense bone, and its edges have a natural definite appearance. Of the other two, the lower has rounded spongy