216 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. in the preceding specimen, extends up to just below a branch, and the artery has contracted closely upon it. (b) Traumatic Aneurism. 11.24. Fracture of the Femur. Traumatic Aneurism of the Femoral Artery in "Hunter's Canal." Jeffray Collection (?). The specimen consists of the lower two-thirds of the left femur, with some of the soft parts, injected red. The fracture has occurred in the middle third, with a slight obliquity outwards and forwards, and the lower fragment has been carried strongly outwards and drawn up, so that there is about 6 cm. of riding; its end is covered with fibrous tissue. To the inside of this and crossing it obliquely lie the femoral artery and vein, marked—the former with a piece of whale-bone, the latter with a piece of wood. The artery is seen to communicate, by an irregular opening nearly 1 cm. in diameter, with a sac (opened and kept open by two pieces of whale-bone), having fairly thick fibrous walls lined with fibrin, into which, opposite the tear in the artery, projects the sharp end of the upper fragment, now partly covered with soft tissue of a fibrous character, probably granulations. The cavity of the aneurism extends in between the fragments so as to appear at the other side, forming two some- what globular sacs united by an oval aperture measuring 2*5 by 1*5 cm. The inner sac has been about 8 cm. in diameter trans- versely, and rather larger vertically; the outer about the same size. The tendon and arch of the adductor magnus muscle have been preserved, and the tear in the artery is seen to have occurred just above and in front of it, just before the vessels pass from Hunter's canal into the popliteal space, and at a rather lower level than the fracture. There is no history of this case, nor even a number on the jar. 11.25. Lambert's Operation for Traumatic Aneurism. Hunterian. A. 15. " The carotid of an ass, on which Lambert's operation for aneurism had been performed, obliterated at the place of puncture by means of the coagulated lymph plugging it up." Lambert's operation was applied to the treatment of traumatic aneurism, especially that at the