HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 52 3.41. United Fracture of the Lower End of the Radius. Hmiterian. Left radius macerated and dried, illustrating the above. From a very small adult. The fracture has been about 4 cm. (about quarter of the length of the bone) above the lower end; there has been considerable backward displacement, and the fragments have been allowed to unite in this position : a bad union. 3.42. Recent United Fracture of the Ulna. Lower Third. Hunteriav. Eight ulna macerated, illustrating the above. The fracture is united by a considerable mass of spongy bony callus, in which the ends of the fragments can be seen still quite sharp. 3.43. Recent Fracture of both Bones of the Forearm at the Middle. Hunterian. LL. 50. Longitudinal section of radius and ulna from a young subject, injected red, and cleared of soft parts down to the periosteum, illustrating the process of repair and the evil results of bandaging the forearm in such an injury. The bones have been drawn together so as to obliterate the interosseous space, which would very quickly interfere with all movements of rotation. The fractures are transverse, that of the radius a little above that of the ulna. The fragments are spliced together by considerable spindle-shaped masses of callus, which in section can be seen to be partly bone and partly cartilage. The new bone fills the marrow cavities, and constitutes the greater part of the spindle-shaped thickenings on the outside of the shafts. Between the splinters the callus is chiefly cartilaginous. (Compare No. 3. 39.) About the lower epiphysial lines there is some expansion of the bone, as if the patient had suffered from rickets; the lines are too regular for rickets to have been active at the time the specimen was obtained. Fractures of the Bones of the Hand. Specimens wanted. { 3.44. United Fracture of the Crest of the Ilium. Hunterian. Eight innominate bone macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The fracture has extended from the middle of the crest