HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 304 The suppurative process inside the chest has ulcerated through the first, second, third, and fourth intercostal spaces, about 2 to 5 cm. from the sternal border, and spread on the outside of the chest, forming a large abscess or abscesses. Parts of the sternum and of five upper costal cartilages and ribs are denuded of periosteum and deeply eroded. There is no necrosis of bone or cartilage, the erosion having novi'here extended right round the rib. 18.37. Phthisical Cavity ulcerating into the Oesophagus. Hunterian. 'I. 84. " A portion of the trachea and oesophagus, from a consumptive child, injected for blood-vessels in spring, 1778; the lungs were exceedingly ulcerated, and a cavity thus formed in the lungs has made its way also into the oesophagus behind them, destroying its anterior part for more than two inches (5 cm.)." 18.38. Calcareous Plates on the Pleura. Hunterian. This specimen was not numbered, but was identified by its resemblance to a figure in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. II., PI. III., fig. 2, where it is described as an "ossification of the pleura." V. Tumours of the Lungs. 18.39. Sarcoma in the Lungs. Secondary, Hunterian. r. 83. The specimen is described in the old catalogue, and figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. II., PL V., figs. 1 and 2, as " tubercles in the lungs of the size of walnuts, truly scrophulous, but it is the pulpy scrophulous tumour, not the cheesy one." Very uncommon, and " of its tendency to run to suppuration nothing is known." '• This patient lost both limbs from similar tumours on them, and, at the time he died, had his left arm in the same situation, though the absorbent glands were not affected (Mr. Watson's patient, Westminster Hospital)." Microscopic examination proves them to be spindle-celled sarcomata. The history is very characteristic of sarcoma, and illustrates its tendency to become disseminated by way of the blood-vessels to the lungs and other parts of the body. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 3.)