Ixx HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGVE. ability from experience, that is, when they are just become fit for teaching, they will generally leave it off. They will always find their labour better rewarded (in the vulgar sense of reward), by following the practice of physic or surgery, than by reading lectures. So it has been, in fact; and thence, though we have had many professors, or teachers, in this great town, we have not had one Winslow, Morgagni, or Albinus: nor can it be expected that a Briton should be able to do, in a few years, what is done by the labour of a long life in other countries : especially too, when we consider that there is no provision made by our government for supplying him with subjects, and that in other countries this article is amply provided for." ^ More than two years before this Dr. Hunter had felt himself under the necessity of lessening his work, and had proposed giving up his lectures, but he was so strongly urged to continue them, that, after reflection, he decided to continue them for life, "even if he should be obliged to drop a part of his more lucrative employments. He conceived that a man may do infinitely more good to the public by teaching his art than by practising it. The good effects of the latter must centre in the advantage of the few individuals under his care as patients; but the influence of a teacher extends itself to the whole nation, and descends to posterity. With these intentions towards mankind, and with a desire of gaining what the best men have ever esteemed the highest reward, he begs that the Earl of Bute, who knows well the force of such motives, would recommend him to the King's favour, that he may better execute his plan of giving lectures during his life, and perpetuate a succession of public teachers of anatomy, under the royal protection. What he at present wishes is this : to be allowed a proper piece of ground, that he may forthwith lay out six, or even seven, thousand pounds in erecting a building fit for the purpose, under any condition that may be agreeable to the king." He promised whenever the building was complete to hand it over to the public; and he also offered to endow it with his library, which had already cost him between three and four thousand pounds, and his preparations, which were "of more worth to the public because they are things that cannot be bought." ^ But the government would not " venture openly to patronize" dissection, and eventually his proposal received "a silent refusal." ^Introductory Lectures, Petition to the King, p. 119. "^Ihid., p, 121.