168 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. have served to transmit the blood-vessels to the interior of the joint. When the head of the femur is placed in the acetabulum, they fit accurately to one another, and allow of fairlj' easy movement through a limited angle, at the ends of which the joint locks. 6.69, Advanced Arthritis Deformans of the Hip. Altera- tions in Shape of the Head of Femur and Aceta- bulum. Hunterian. Right femur and innominate bone macerated and dried. The head of the femur closely resembles that of the last specimen in shape. It is fairly rough, but eburnated over a considerable area, which looks upwards and inwards. The acetabulum has extended slightly up on the ilium, but its upper edge has at the same time atrophied, so that it is very shallow. The cotyloid notch and fossa for the ligamentum teres make a hollow nearly as large as the acetabulum, and freely communicating with it. Into this notch, which is not bridged over, passes the downward and backward prolongation of the head of the femur when they are placed in ajjposition. Compare with the preceding. Above the acetabulum there are numerous small periostitic outgrowths. 6.70. Advanced Arthritis Deformans of the Hip-joint. Hunterian. Left innominate bone and part of the femur, probably from a grave, illustrating the above. The head of the femur is greatly expanded and of a flattened ovoid shape, its longest diameter running from before backwards and downwards. The greater part of it appears to be composed of new bone, formed chiefly round the posterior and lower, less round the upper, and hardly at all round the anterior border. The original head seems to have been worn down to the neck ; consequently the neck seems to be greatly shortened. Nearly the whole surface looking inwards and upwards is of dense polished bone perforated by numerous round holes leading inward to the can- celli of the head. This enlarged articular head was received into a wide shallow depression—partly worn in the outside of the ilium below the inferior curved line and outside of the anterior inferior spine, partly formed of irregular new bone thrown out in front of the spine. No trace of the edges of the old acetabulum remains.