Ivi HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. the decidua from the uterus, the mode of termination of the arteries and veins of the uterus in the placenta, the fact that the injection from them had passed into natural cavities among the foetal vessels yet had not passed into those foetal vessels, are all demonstrated clearljr in the illustrations which were made by William Hunter in 1750, and it is unreasonable to suppose that they were figured then, yet only understood in 1754. John's absurdly meagre quotations from his brother's lectures of 1755, intended to show that even then the latter did not understand the placenta, prove nothing. As to the absence of communication between the circulation of the mother and that of the foetus, the main fact that nothing can pass from the one to the other " except by rupture or transudation," became known to William Hunter many j'ears earlier. His account of the discovery is as follows; it is added to the MS. of the " Anato- mical Description of the Gravid Uterus " as a note which, in point of time, was clearly written later than the body of the text, perhaps after the quarrel with John, and intended as an answer to him, but of that there is no definite proof: "The first time (in the year 1743) that I injected the vein of the navel-string, while the placenta adhered to the uterus, in separating these two parts, it was evident that the injection had nowhere passed further than the placenta, except at one place where a small convoluted vessel (no doubt an artery) was traced, distinctly filled with wax, some little way into the substance of the uterus; but upon examination it was evident that there was extravasation in that part of the placenta, and by many trials I know that water, or any fluid fit for transudation, thrown into the umbilical arteries or veins, readilj' gets into the cellular cavities of the placenta, and thence into the vessels, especially the veins of the uterus." ^ The placenta he described as composed of two parts intimately blended, the one uterine, being the decidua, the other foetal, being formed by the pro- longations of the branchings of the vessels of the umbilical cord. These two elements he was able to separate in the placentae of many of the lower animals; also, however finely he might inject the vessels of the uterus, those of the umbilical cord alway.s "re- mained uninjected." "It was this appearance," he says (in his lectures of 1775), "in the cat and bitch that first led me into the apprehension that the human placenta was the same. I thought this a long time, but I never cared to assert it openly till within these few years." ^ This was, he admitted, not altogether a new iDr. Edward Rigby's edition,p.39,1S4.3. ^^S. R.C.S., Eng., 42, c. 31, p. 37.