DISEASES OF THE SPINAL CORD. 335 section shows the dura mater with a great deal of blood in masses intersected by strands of fibrous tissue, and masses of very cellular tissue, apparently spindle-celled sarcoma, on both sides of it; badly preserved. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 50.) "(Mrs. Bell's case); died suddenly : there were other tumours externally on the (skull ?); suspected venereal disease. (Case wrote out.)" (MS. not found.) SECTION II. THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MENINGES. I. Congenital Defects and Malformations. 22.14. Spina Bifida. Hunterian. EE. 48. Three lumbar vertebrae, sacrum, and coccyx of a foetus cleaned, showing the condition of the vertebral column in spina bifida. The arches are deficient, leaving an oval gap extending from the third lumbar spine down to the lowest arch of the sacrum. The opening in the vertebral canal is, however, often much less extensive. 22.15. Spina Bifida. Meningocele. Hunterian. EE. 47. The lower part of the trunk of a female child, the viscera removed, showing a fairly large spina bifida, which was opened from behind by Professor Cleland (1884), and the spinal cord and lumbar nerves displayed by removal of the bodies of the vertebrae. In the account of it, which he has given in " The Treatment of Spina Bifida," by James Morton, M.D., it is stated that the sac was entirely covered with skin. This is somewhat thinner over the top than on the sides of the tumour. In the interior the sac shows, between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, a depression, in which is seen, covered by the lining membrane, the lower end of the cord and some nerve roots, while to the right of these is a communication with the arachnoid (subdural) space. In front is seen a well-formed cord, with the nerve roots of the lumbar and sacral plexuses coming off from it. The coi'd terminates on a level with the top of the gap. The lumbar nerves pass out horizontally, or nearly so, from the cord. The sacral nerves are small. They slope downwards in the usual way, forming a very short and imperfect sort of cauda equina. The tumour is clearly a meningocele. It is entirely behind the spinal cord and nerves.