Ixxii HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. Matthew Baillie ^ was the only surviving son of James Baillie, minister of Shotts, Bothwell, and Hamilton successively, and after- wards Professor of Divinity in Glasgow University, and of William Hunter's sister Dorothea. He was born at the manse of Shotts on the 27th of October, 1761. He entered Glasgow University in 1774 as an arts student. Three years later, although his inclinations were rather towards divinity or the bar, he chose medicine as his pro- fession on account of the prospects offered by his connection with the Hunters. His father had died in 1778. As he desired to take an English degree in medicine, he applied for and obtained in 1779 a Snell Exhibition to Oxford. In the spring of the same year he proceeded thither by way of London, where he was to meet his uncle William, and discuss his future line of action. To William Hunter he became as a son.'- " He spent the whole of his time after the first year with William Hunter, except during the 'terms,' which amounted to only a few weeks annually." In two years from the commencement of his medical studies he began to assist in the teaching in the Great Windmill Street School. He held the Snell Exhibition, which was worth £120 per annum, for the full period (as it was then) of ten years. At Oxford he graduated B.A. in 1783, M.A. in 1786, M.B. in 1786, and M.D. in 1789. Besides the interest in the museum, William Hunter left him about £100 a year, and the family estate at Long Calderwood. The latter he immediately gave up to John Hunter. It returned to him in after years, and is still owned by his descendants. Glasgow University showed its appreciation of the value of its legacy by trying to persuade Matthew Baillie to give it up at once in return for a consideration. The professor of anatomy at that time was William Hamilton (father of the great metaphysician), who had been a student under Hunter, and who had charge of his dissecting-room a few years earlier, before his appointment to the University. But Baillie had his own views about the museum, and stated them with decision, as follows :" Letter to E. Barclay, Esq. Dear Sir,—I scarce think it is proper for me to be at this 1 These particulars are taken principally from the biography in Wardrop's edition of his works, 8vo, London, 1824, vol. i., and from the records of Glasgow University. ^William Hunter never married. 3 The Hunter-Baillie MS., vol. i., Dr. M. Baillie, p. 10 et seq. Published by kind permission of Miss H. Hunter-Baillie.