369 THE MIDDLE AND INTERNAL EAR. 25. 22. The Membrana Tympani and Ossicles of the Ear. Hunterian. HH. 9. Three views of the incus, malleus, and membrana tympani from within, dried and mounted on blue paper They show the handle of the malleus attached to the membrana which is convex internally, and the incus behind it with its short process attached to the posterior wall of the tympanum. 25.23. Dissection of the Middle and Internal Ear. Hunterian. HH. 21. "The whole organ of hearing from an adult," left side, suspended by the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, showing the tympanic cavity and internal ear laid open from above. The three ossicles are seen in situ ; a bristle which obscures the malleus indicates the chorda tympani nerve emerging from between the incus and the malleus. The mastoid antrum is also unroofed, and a bristle placed in the descending portion^-of the Fallopian canal shows the position of the facial nerve relative to the antrum and antro- tympanic passage. The rest of the aqueduct (canal) of Fallopius has been removed to show the stapes, its head articulated with the processus orbicularis which caps the long pi'ocess of the incus, and its base, supported on its diverging crura, fitted into the fenestra ovalis (the upper wall of which has been removed). Attached to the posterior side of the neck of the stapes is the minute tendon of the stapedius muscle rising out of a conical projection of the posterior wall of the tympanum called the pyramid. The cochlea is here seen exceedingly well; it " was uncovered by a lucky stroke of a hammer and chisel." The meatus auditorius internus is split, and shows the auditory nerve dividing into three branches, one (the largest) going to the cochlea, the other two to the vestibule and semicircular canals. 25.24. The Middle and Internal Ear. Hunterian. HH. 22. A nearly similar preparation, also left side, but injected red, and all of the osseous portion of the external auditory meatus except the tympanic ring bearing the membrane removed. A bristle passed between the ossicles from the outer side marks the chorda tympani. The Eustachian tube is laid open from the anterior end of the tympanum to the naso-pharynx, and above it, marked by a thick yellow bristle, is the tensor tympani muscle with its tendon, which 2a