59 INJURIES OF BONE. 3.65. United Transverse Fracture of the Femur below the Middle. Riding of the Upper Fragment in Front of the Lower. Hunterian. Left femur macerated and dried, showing the above. The upper fragment overrides the lower fully 5 cm., and there must have been considerable shortening and lameness. The medullary cavities are closed by cancellous bone with a thin dense outer shell. 3.66. Ununited Fracture of the Femur about the Middle. False Joint. Hunterian. LL. 13. Part of a femur, the muscles dissected off to show the above, "From a Sailor (Greenwich Hospital)." The fracture appears to have passed from above obliquely backwards and downwards, and the lower fragment has been drawn up in front of and rather external to the upper, the two crossing one another at an open angle with the points directed backwards. Union not having taken place, the two bones have formed a false joint, so that " he walked as if he had three joints in the thigh bone." The false joint has been laid open, showing that it consisted of a firm capsular ligament keeping the bones in apposition, a synovial membrane, and fibro-cartilaginous surfaces on the opposed sides of the fragments, which glided over one another. New formation of bone had closed the medullary cavities and also thrown out a buttress on the lower fragment, which increased its articular surface. 3. 67. United Complex Fracture of the Femur below the Middle. Hunterian. Right femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. A longitudinal splinter has been detached on the inner side, and lies obliquely from the upper, which overrides slightly, to the lower. The space between the upper and lower, about 2 cm. wide, is filled up by a large mass of callus binding them firmly together. The shaft is irregular and greatly increased in thickness, but the position of the lower end is very good. 3.68. United Fracture of the Femur in the Lower Third. Very Oblique. Hunterian. Left femur macerated ai d dried, showing the above. The fracture has passed from behind and above very obliquelj' down-