ANEURISM. 221 the intima. The innominate and left carotid rise by a common trunk, which is highly atheromatous, and dilated for about 3 cm. from its origin. 11.41. Globular Aneurism of the Root of the Aorta, pressing on the Pulmonary Artery. Himterian. KK. 1. " The adult human heart. An aneurism about the size of a large cherry is seen opened in the trunk of the aorta, just as it arises out of the left ventricle." The aneurism communicates with the aorta by an orifice, 6 mm. in diameter, about 3 cm. above the valves. It lies between the auricular appendage of the right auricle and the pulmonary artery, and presses on the latter so as to bulge it inwards, but there is no perforation. The aorta is atheromatous and consider- ably thickened. There is a small stratified thrombus in the sac. " Case, Mr. Adair's patient" (unknown). 11.42. Aneurisms of the Ascending Aorta and Arch. Rup- ture into the Pericardium and Chest. Hunterian. S. 57. " The aorta ascendens slit open to show its inner surface formed into aneurismal sacs of the size of a small walnut. One of these had burst, and the patient died of internal haemorrhage into the cavity of the chest as well as the pericardium." The first of the sacs, probably the one which burst (though both had been opened in preparation), opens just above the valves by an oval aperture about 2 cm. in its longest diameter. The second, not so large or so globular, is situated in the concavity of the arch just about the beginning of the aorta descendens. The aorta is slightly atheroma- tous ; the valves are healthy. 11.43. Double Aneurism of the Aorta. Hunterian. KK. 4. " An aneurism of the aorta ascendens, about the size of a child's head at birth, cut open : a small aneurismal sac unopened is seen below the great one, size of a gooseberry." Both aneurisms are on the convexity of the aorta before the origin of the great vessels, and communicate with it by small openings. The greater part of the sac of the large one has been cut away. The aorta is atheromatous and dilated generally.