240 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. the middle, where for an inch or two it is double, forming an island; it begins by three trunks—one from each leg and one from the mesentery ; the largest trunk lies under the aorta, a little above its bifurcation into the iliacs—and is as thick as one's little finger; this trunk belongs to the left leg; the trunk from the right is smaller, but appears previously to have united with the last lower down; that from the mesentery is nearly as large as a goose quill; the duct also enlarges above the middle, and splits into several branches before it terminates in the angle between the left jugular and subclavian veins: these veins are filled with green wax, which appears evidently to have been prevented from entering the duct by a pair of valves at the mouth of the duct, so that the quicksilver of the duct terminates in a wedge like edge passing between the distended valves." The mercury has escaped from parts of the specimen. 12.18. The Centre of the Lymphatic System: Thoracic Duct, Right Lymphatic Ducts, and Lymphatics of the Thorax from behind. Hunterian. D. 59. The lymphatics have all been injected with mercury, but it has fallen out of a number of them. The specimen is rather complicated: in the centre lies a portion of the arch of the aorta with the innominate artery running up to the right, and the left carotid to the left; the left subclavian has been cut away. Below, in the middle line, is the oesophagus with a quill passed through it: to the right and left are the two bronchi laid open just as they divide into their branches. The thoracic duct, of very large size and now empty of mercury, is seen coming up from the abdomen; and, after receiving the lymphatics of the left lung and two large branches (which cross behind the oesophagus) from the right lung, runs up to join the left subclavian along with lymphatics from the heart and left upper limb and side of head and neck. The lymphatics from the right lung and most of those from the heart pass up—partly in what looks like a broad plexus of small vessels, but is probably injected glands, partly by a couple of fairly large vessels—to join the lymphatics of the right upper limb and side of head and neck, and terminate in the right subclavian vein as the right lymphatic duct (or ducts, as there are several here). There is only a small piece of each subclavian and jugular vein, and it is laid open. Mounted in turpentine on white paper.