367 ajvatomf of tee ear. of the external meatus and membrana tynipani, and the posterior parts of the tympanic cavity. The incus is gone, but the stapes, with its base in the fenestra ovaHs, is seen from the opposite side compared with No. 25.11. The vestibule is not opened, but the passage from it into the cochlea is marked by a bristle, and another is passed from above into it by one of the semicircular canals. The facial nerve, cut across, is seen in the Fallopian canal, running in the inner wall of the tympanum just above the fenestra ovalis. The auditory nerve in section is also seen at the base of the cochlea. The antro-tympanic orifice is at a considerably higher level than the tympanic cavity. Injected red. The parotid gland is well shown up by the injection. 25.14. Horizontal Sections of the Ear. Hunterkm. HH. 11. The right temporal bone, most of the squamous portion cut away, and external ear divided transversely just above the floor of the external auditory meatus, the lower portion hanging down. It shows the external meatus, the membrana tympani, and the lower portion of the tympanic cavity. The side of the preparation also shows the sigmoid groove in relation to the mastoid process. 25.15. Horizontal Sections of the Ear. Hunterian. HH. 11«. The left temporal bone and external ear divided horizontally a shade higher than the preceding, showing the same points. Injected red. 25.16. Horizontal Sections of the Ear. Hunterian. HH. 16. The left temporal bone and external ear divided horizontally about the middle of the external auditory meatus, the upper half hanging down. In the lower section bristles have been placed in the fenestra ovalis showing the vestibule, from which another bristle is passed into the canal leading to the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. The ossicles have been removed. The upper section shows the attics of the tympanum and mastoid antrum, a bristle indicating the passage between them. Bristles are also placed in two of the semicircular canals. The internal meatus is also seen in both sections with the nerves removed ; a small portion of two turns of the cochlea lies in