2G0 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 12.104. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Villi. Intestine of Turtle. Hunkrian. QQ. 50. A small portion of the intestine of the turtle, showing a number of fine lymphatics in the longitudinal ridges, which in this animal represent the villi, injected with mercury. This effect is obtained by pressing the mercury in the submucous spaces (which are so well shown in the specimens mounted in turpentine), when some of the metal as a rule manages to escape into the vessels of the villi, as described by Hewson. See under No. 12.106. 12.105. The Lymphatics of the Intestine. Lacteals. Turtle. Hunterian. D. 30. "A portion of the small intestine from the turtle, the arteries injected red, the veins black, and the absorbents with quick- silver. The quicksilver is seen on the internal surface of the intestine in vessels just discernible to the naked eye; in the microscope they make a very large beautiful serpentine appear- ance, but nothing like orifice was evident." Hewson believed that he had detected orifices closed by valves on the surface of the mucous membrane, which were the commencement of the lacteals of the villi. William Hunter appears always to have had some doubt as to the existence of such orifices. See Historical Introduction. 12.106. The Lymphatics of the Intestine. Superficial and Deep. Turtle. Hunterian. D. 14. " A portion of the small intestine and mesentery of the turtle. The arteries were injected red, the veins black, and the absorbents with mercury, and the intestine dried without distending its natural cavity ; so that what in the overdistended intestine seemed extra- vasations are here seen regularly cylindrical vessels, and give a grand idea of the extent of the absorbent system in this animal." Contrast No. 12.108. The specimens in this and the succeeding section of the series were mostly prepared by Hewson. The following account of them is taken from Hewson's WwJcs, p. 149. " In this animal I have been so fortunate as to force the valves, and to inject the lacteals from their trunks to their branches, so as to fill them all around with quicksilver, in several parts