INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 109 5.103. Septic Osteomyelitis after Compound Fracture. Ne- crosis. Union around the Sequestra. Huntericm. Fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. It has been fractured about the middle with considerable comminution, and was probably compound. A large splinter has necrosed, but callus has been thrown out all around from the other fragments, reuniting the bone and shutting in the sequestrum, which is movable but not removable. 5.104. Septic Osteomyelitis after ] Compound Fracture. Comminution. Multiple Necrosis. Union with great Thickening around the Sequestra. Hunterian. Portion of a femur, probably from a grave. There has been a fracture about the middle, comminuted and compound, followed by the entrance of septic organisms and osteomyelitis, and periostitis. Numerous sequestra have separated, and a very thick new case of porous bone has been formed around them by the periosteum, shutting them in and at the same time healing the fracture with a great deal of deformity. Towards the upper end, part of the new case has been scraped away, showing the rarefied old wall within it.. 5.105. Septic Osteomyelitis after Compound Comminuted Fracture. Necrosis. Union around the Sequestra. Hunterian. Tibia macerated and dried, showing the above. There is a very bad deformity, the lower fragment riding in front of and to the outside of the upper, while lying loose between the two is a third fragment which had died. The two principal fragments are thickened by periostitic new-formation of bone, and are united by a thick bridge behind the sequestrum. In front they are not united, A part of the surface adjacent to the break is eroded, as if it had formed the base of a chronic ulcer. 5. 106. Sequestrum from Septic Osteomyelitis after Com- pound Fracture. Hunterian. A large sequestrum, probably of the femur, dried. The lower end has the sharp edges characteristic of fracture, and for about 3 cm. its exterior has the smooth surface of the old shaft. Above, it is eroded, and even perforated by the action of the granulations-