HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 86 medullary cavity is filled by bone which has been cancellated, but is now almost solid. The seat of fracture forms a node-like enlarge- ment, the surface of which presents a worm-eaten appearance as if it had formed the base of an ulcer, the presence of which would keep up irritation and consequent inflammatory action in the neighbouring bone. The old shaft can be distinguished from the new-formed bone by being in most places a little denser. 5.42. Chronic Osteomyelitis of the Fibula. Enlargement and Condensation. Hunterinn. Left fibula macerated and dried, showing the results of the above. Divided longitudinally. The whole bone from end to end is greatly thickened and roughened by periosteal new-formation of bone. Its surface is in some parts porous as if this had been still in progress ; in others it is dense. The section shows almost complete abolition of the medullar}' cavity by new-formed cancellous tissue of somewhat dense texture. The walls of the bone- are very thick and dense. Here and thei-e a portion of the old shaft is recognizable, but for the most part it is indistinguishable from the new bone. An example of condensing osteitis or osteosclerosis. The cause is unknown. Probably it was long standing ulceration of the neighbouring soft parts,' possibly complicated by syphilis. 5. 43. Chronic Osteomyelitis of the Femur. Great Enlarge- ment and Condensation. Hunterian. Right femur macerated, dried, and divided longitudinally in its lower half, showing the above. From the middle down to the lower epiphysis the shaft of the femur is greatly enlarged by periosteal new-formation of bone. Its external surface is very rough and irregular; porous, yet fairly dense. In section the new bone is seen to be formed on the outside of the old shaft, whose walls can be traced by their greater density and by their having a longitudinal grain, whereas the new bone is irregular. The latter presents the appearance of a very dense cancellous tissue, having been originally of fine spongy texture, but the trabeculae having been greatly increased in thickness at the expense of the spaces—osteosclerosis. The inedullary cavity is filled with cancellated bone of very open texture, with a great deal of adipocere in its meshes. It has also expanded by a process of rarefaction and absorption of the inner