HUNTEIUAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 310 20.3. Carcinoma of the Thyroid Gland growing into the Trachea. Himterian. T. 67. The anterior part of the tumour (posterior lost), with the anterior half of the larynx and trachea, the arch of the aorta, and the origins of the great vessels. The whole thyroid gland is affected, but the enlargement is chiefly in the right lobe, which extends from about the middle of the thyroid cartilage to near the bifurcation of the trachea, a distance of 11 cm. In the middle line, resting on the aorta and pressing aside the great vessels, is a mass of enlarged lymphatic glands. In section the tumour appears glandular, but solid, and, except at one or two points, without the dilated loculi full of col- loid matter characteristic of the normal thyroid. For a distance of about 5 cm., beginning just below the cricoid cartilage, the tumour has grown through the walls of the trachea, and projects into it in irregular granulation-like projections, considerably narrowing its calibre. On microscopic examination it is found to be a highly cellular carcinoma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 4.) The thyroid and cricoid cartilages are ossified. " The disease was of one year's standing, and killed the patient." It " occasioned a sense of almost constant suffocation." (" Holbum, Mr. Neilson's patient.") (b) Diseases of the Suprarenal Capsules. 20.4. Congenital Smallness of the Suprarenal Capsules. Anencephalic Foetus. Huaterian. X. 70a. " Capsulae from a monster without brain, exceedingly small com- pared with their kidneys; on one side there appears to be fat only, in place of renal capsula." Compare next specimen. 20.5. Congenital Smallness of the Suprarenal Capsule. Anencephalic Foetus. Hunterian. X. 70b. The other kidney and capsule from the same case ; apparently this is the capsule " which appears to be only fat." 20.6. Congenital Smallness of the Suprarenal Capsule. Anencephalic Foetus. Hunterian. X. 70c. Similar preparation from another anencephalic monster. Supra- renal capsule " small, but not wanting."