167 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. 6.67. Advanced Arthritis Deformans of the Hip-joint. Hunterian. Right femur, probably from a grave, illustrating the above. There is a porous and polished bearing surface on the upper and anterior portion of the head, which seems to be considerably rubbed down. The rest of it is covered by a layer, about 5 mm. thick, of cancellated bone, which, from its porosity and friability, is evidently of recent origin. This also extends from its edges below and behind in a pretty deep collar. The shape of the head is materially altered, and its size increased. There is a flat elevation of bone, 6-5 cm. long by 1 "8 cm. broad by about 5 mm. thick, on the front of the femur about the middle—an exostosis in the origin of the crureus. 6.68. Advanced Arthritis Deformans of the Hip-joint. Hunterian. Left femur and os innominatum macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The specimen shows a very striking deformity. The head of the femur is widened on the one hand by new growth round its edges, and flattened on the other hand by wearing down of its inner and upper surfaces. Consequently, the head and neck together are considerably shortened. The greatest amount of new-formation, and that which has suff'ered least from friction, has been in a back- ward direction, and also downwards and outwards. It reaches to within 1 cm. of the top of the great trochanter. The head is now an ovoid mass with its apex directed downwards, inwards, and backwards, and showing a roughly-turned bearing surface set almost at right angles to the axis of the bone. This is rough, and eburnated in places. The scores corresponding to the lines of movement are partly obliterated by a newer formation of bone. To receive this peculiarly-shaped head, the acetabulum has grown considerably upwards on the ilium by osseous additions to its upper border. Compare next specimen and No. 6. 79. The apex of the head passes down into a deep fossa, which occupies the position of that in which the ligamentum teres was formerly inserted ; the bottom of this fossa is a plate of new bone. The cotyloid notch is also filled up by a plate of bone which is continuous with the preceding, the two forming a complete floor to the acetabulum. From below and behind, a deep hole runs in under this floor, which represents the cotyloid notch and fossa for the ligamentum teres, but is quite cut off from the acetabulum by bone; one minute foramen persists which may