THE LYMPHATICS OF THE LIMBS. 241 12.19. Thoracic Duct terminating in the Right Subclavian Vein. Hmiterian. QQ. lb. " The spine of a child at birth, arteries injected red ; along the spine is seen the thoracic duct injected with quicksilver and terminating in the right subclavian instead of the left. The tallowy injection thrown into the arteries and veins had got into the thoracic duct, having dropped the colour. This was melted out in hot water, and quicksilver thrown into the duct in its stead." In turpentine. 12.20. The Thoracic Duct in the Cat. Hunterian. QQ. 76. "The thoracic duct in the cat, filled with quicksilver, lying on the spine and terminating both in right and left subclavians, but chiefly in the left. It appears triple all the way instead of single as in men : the valves in that branch which goes towards the right are exceedingly distinct and numerous." In turpentine. (6) The Lymphatics of ike Limbs. 12.21. Lymphatics of the Foot. Hunterian. QQ. 1. " The great toe of the right foot, with the metatarsal and tarsal bones in the same line ; the external integuments are removed ; the tendons of the tibialis anticus and extensor poUicis longus are exposed; on the outside of the first bone of the great toe appear some absorbents filled with mercury; these run up with the afore- said tendons over the ankle-joint to get upon the foreside of the tibia and inside of the thigh, as will be seen in No. 1. of the dry preparations." The dry preparations are unfortunately not in the collection now. 12.22. The Superficial Lymphatics of the Leg: Inguinal Glands and Vessels. Hunterian. D. 53. " A number of absorbent glands from the groin, with the absor- bents passing in and out." The specimen shows seven or eight lymphatic glands, of various sizes, connected by a plexus of vessels, injected with mercury and mounted on black paper; in turpentine. The vessels present the characteristic beaded appearance. The afferent vessel breaks up into a number of small branches which enter the gland at several diff"erent points, and the efferent simi- Q