Iv INTRODUCTION. Baillie did not at first realize the value of the MS. that had come into his hands, and it was not until 1794 that he published it. Then he states in his preface, "' What appeared to be wanting, I have attempted with much diffidence to add,' a resolution as unfortu- nate for obstetric anatomy as it was ill-advised in him.''^ John Hunter in his paper had described the decidua as originating as an exudation of lymph (fibrinous exudation) from the vessels of the uterus due to the stimulus of impregnation; the ovum pushed itself into the middle of this lymph, and became attached to it; the lymph continued to be a living part for the time, and the vessels of the uterus ramified upon it, or, where the vessels of the foetus form the placenta, passed through it and opened into the cellular sub- stance of the placenta. In a note he compared this process to the encapsulation of a foreign body in the tissues. To William Hunter's MS. these erroneous views are added in Baillie's handwriting. In the published work, the opinion as to the nature of the decidua appears as if it had actually been that of William Hunter, and accordingly it has commonly been attributed to him as a later view. The theory as to the enclosure of the ovum in the decidua has also been attributed to him, though it is clear that it was only the view of Baillie or of John Hunter. Adherence to the erroneous views of John Hunter vitiate all that was written on these subjects for about half a century, and many were the ingenious theories raised to meet the numerous difficulties to which these views gave rise. To Coste ^ belongs the credit of finally re-establishing the correct teaching of William Hunter; even he, however, attributes John Hunter's description of the decidua to William as his later, but less correct views. How much foundation there was for the claims of John it is impossible now to say, but the probability is that William's acknow- ledgment that he assisted him in most of the dissections was quite sufficient, and that nearly all the credit of the discoveries belonged to William. Where the brothers are in agreement, the descriptions of William are far superior in clearness and detail. Moreover, the vascularity of 'Matthews Duncan, op. cil., p. 227. ^ Histoire du Divelopment des Corps Organises, Paris, 1847, 8vo, p. 212 (Atlas, large folio). Coste's note is highly appreciative of William Hunter's work, and very fair to him. The above erroneous theory he does not attribute to him, but to later physiologists. He does not mention John Hunter or Baillie.