194< HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. III. Injuries of Limbs, etc., e.g. Crushed Hands, etc. Specimens wanted. IV. Diseases affecting Whole Limbs, e.g. Cellulitis, Gangrene, etc. Specimens wanted. 9.10. Swelling of Hand from Obstruction of the Lym- phatics. A very much swollen hand which had been amputated at the wrist, from a small person, showing the above. There is a deep incision in the palm from the base of the first finger almost to the wrist. The swelling does not affect the whole hand; it is very great in the ball of the thumb and adjacent half, or thereabouts, of the palm, the corresponding area of the back of the hand, and the index and middle fingers. These last are enormously swollen, especially in the upper two phalanges, and pressed widely apart. The thumb and other two fingers and the outer edge of the hand are hardly at all swollen, contrasting strongly with the rest. The swelling is not sharply defined. So far as can be seen in the cut surface of the wrist, it did not extend above the hand. On refreshing the edge of the cut, the tissue from the periosteum right up to the skin was found to consist of a network of fibrous-looking tissue, its meshes filled with glancing brown material. It cut easily. To the naked eye it looks like a tumour. Microscopic examination of a large section showed only the normal constituents of the palm of the hand—skin, glands, blood-vessels, fat, areolar tissue, dense fibrous tissue, nerve, and here and there muscle fibres. No evidence of inflammation ; no leucocytes in the tissues. The vessels contain fairly well-preserved blood, with rather an excess of leucocytes. The contents of the spaces were masses of hyaline matter of a yellowish colour and lumpy, along with some finer granular debris; no cellular elements. The walls of the spaces resembled those of veins, but without muscular coat—most probably distended lymphatics filled with coagulated lymph much altered by time and spirit. The meshes of the areolar tissue are full of fibrin. Apparently a case of oedema due to obstruction of the lymphatics. The history of the specimen is unknown, and the cause of the condition cannot be made out by examination.