88 HUNTERIAiY ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. extended downwards through about the upper third of the diaphysis. The dense walls of the shaft are opened out and rendered porous, parts of the cancellous head, including a considerable portion of the epiphysial surface, are quite destroyed. There has been some peri- osteal new-formation of bone on the shaft and round the sides of the head. The new bone is porous, of close texture, and of a greyish colour. It is readily distinguishable from the old bone, which is white and has a worm-eaten appearance, the Haversian canals having been opened out into wide spaces by the inflammatory process. A septic form of caries. 5.46. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis: Juxta-Epiphysial. Rarefaction. Hunterian. Lower half of a femur macerated and dried, the epiphysis absent. Very similar to the preceding. The fine Haversian canals of the dense bone have been opened out into wide irregular spaces, and the cancellous head partly destroyed. On the shaft a layer of new bone has been formed under the periosteum. 5.47. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis: Juxta-Epiphysial. Rarefaction. Hunterian. Lower half of tibia and Hbula macerated and dried. The seat of the disease in both is the cancellous tissue near the epiphysial line. All round both bones in this region the outer shell has been opened up and destroyed. This rarefaction has extended some little way up the shaft, but below it stops abruptly, leaving the outer shell of the articular head as a sharp uneven edge under which it has burrowed along the epiphysial line. There is some periosteal new bone on the outside of the shaft. Compare next specimen. 5.48. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis: Juxta-Epiphysial. Rarefaction. Hunterian. Lower end of tibia macerated and dried. A specimen very similar to the preceding, divided longitudinally to show the manner in which the carious process has eaten in beneath the shell of the epiphysis and along the epiphysial line. The disease is almost entirely in the shaft, which is rarefied more or less for about 3 cm. above the epi- physial line, but on the posterior side it has crossed this line and destroyed part of the cancellous tissue of the epiphysis also. At the