Ixv INTRODUCTION. So far as they go the anatomy lectures are excellent, and it is surprising how far they do go, and how accurate they are when judged by the standard of to-day. With the anatomy was incorporated a " sketch " of the physiology of the parts just demonstrated. First "the structure of the parts, and the known phenomena as data," then "briefly, the most prevailing opinions or hypotheses, with the principal arguments that have been brought either to support or to overturn them." Thirdly, "in some instances to give our own opinion with caution and reserve; but more generally to leave your judgments free, that enquiry and improvement may go on.''^ "Lest I should be thought too short in the physiological part, I would beg leave to observe that, as far as it is yet known, or has been explained by Haller and the best of the moderns, it may be easily acquired by a student without a master, provided the student is acquainted with philosophy and chemistry, and is an expert and ready ana- tomist ; for with these qualifications he can read any physiological book, and can understand it as fast as he reads." Too much time, he thought, was spent on physiological specula- tions. " In our branch, those teachers who take but little pains to demonstrate the parts of the body with precision and clearness, but study to captivate young minds with ingenious speculation, will not leave a reputation that will outlive them half a century. When they cease from their labours, their labours are buried with them. There never was a man, perhaps, more followed and ad- mired in physiology than Boerhaave. I remember the veneration he was held in; and now, in the space of forty years, his physiologj'' is—it shocks me to think in what a light it appears." ^ He had no hesitation in "avowing great ignorance in many of the most considerable questions relating to animal operations; such as sensation, motion, respiration, digestion, generation, etc.," or in telling his students of his own mistakes. After the physiology come observations on pathology, chiefly morbid anatomy and narrations of cases—a part of the lectures on the value of which Hunter laid particular stress. Some of the references to cases it is possible to connect with specimens in the museum. "The more we know of our fabrick, the more reason we have to believe that if our senses were more acute, and our judgment more enlarged, we should be able to trace many springs of life, ^ Introd. Lects., p. 97. ^ Introductory Lectures, p. 98. e