371 THE EAR IN THE HUMAN FOETUS. 25.28. The Ear of a Foetus. Hunterian. HH. 27. Not described. The left temporal bone of a foetus, the external ear and membrana tympani removed, injected red. From the outside the ossicles are seen with the chorda tympani nerve passing between the incus and the malleus. Three structures of a bright red colour are attached to the malleus, viz. the external ligament behind, the anterior ligament in front enveloping the processus gracilis, and the tensor tympani muscle below and internal to it. A bristle indicates the tendon of stapedius, also red, emerging from the pyramid. The masto-squamosal suture is well marked. On the inside the petro-squamosal suture is seen open, and the gap of the hiatus Fallopii and the fossa subarcuata, which lies just behind the internal meatus, are very large. Above the petro-squamosal suture is a foramen for the transmission of a branch of the posterior auricular vein. 25.29. The Left Temporal Bone of a Child at Birth. Hunterian. HH. 14. Macerated, cleaned, and mounted dry on blue paper. There are three bristles passed from without into the tympanum, the uppermost pointing to the canal of the tensor tympani muscle, the second to the fenestra ovalis, and the lowermost to the fenestra rotunda, the promontory lying between the last two. The bristle which crosses the tympanum rests with its posterior end on the ridge of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and passes out in front by the Eustachian tube, to the inside of which is seen the carotid canal. The fifth bristle is jjlaced in the lower orifice of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The masto-squamosal suture is crossed by a few bridges of bone, but is mostly open. 25.30. The Left Temporal Bone of a " Child at Birth." Hunterian. HH. 8. Macerated, cleaned, separated into squamous and petro-mastoid portions, and mounted dry on blue paper. The tympanic ring is attached to the squamous portion, the line of union marked by a bristle. The other portion shows the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, the prominent objects being the fenestra ovalis with the ridge of the aqueduct of Fallopius above it, the promontory with the fenestra rotunda almost hidden below it, and the mastoid