THE LYMPHATICS OF THE INTESTINES. 261 of the intestine. In these experiments I observed that the quicksilver was often stopped by the valves where the lacteals run upon the mesentery, or where they are just leaving the intestine; but when those valves were forced, and the quick- silver had once got upon the surface of the gut, it generally ran forward without seeming to meet with any obstacle. The lacteals anastomose upon the intestines, so that the quicksilver, which has got in upon them by one vessel, in general, returns by another at some distance. The larger lacteals, which run upon the intestines, accompany the blood-vessels ; but the smaller lacteals neither accompany those vessels nor pass in the same direction, but run longitudinally upon the gut, and dip down through the muscular coat into the cellular or nervous, as it has been called, which in this animal is very thin in comparison to what it is in the human subject. So far I have traced those vessels to my satisfaction; but what becomes of them after they have got to the cellular coat is not so easy to determine: in five or six different experiments which I have made, the mercury passed from the lacteals into the cells between the muscular coat and the internal, and spread from cell to cell very uniformly over a great part of the intestine, although but little force had been used, and although there was nothing like extravasation in any other part of the intestine. Upon inverting the intestine, after thus filling the lacteals, the mercury, on being pressed, was in many parts driven into small vessels upon the internal coat, or villous, as it is called. From whence it would seem that this cellular network was a part of the lymphatic system in this animal. It might indeed be supposed to be mere extravasation, but that it is rather a part of the lymphatic system appears from the following considerations : first, from the regularity in the size of the cells; secondly, from the little force used in the experiment, and from there being nothing like this appearance in the cellular membrane between the peritoneal and the muscular coat, where extravasations were as likely to happen ; thirdly, from my having been able, after inverting the intestine, to press the quicksilver from the cells into the very small vessels upon the internal coat. But I must confess these facts would not be sufficient to determine whether these cells were or were not a part of the system, did not the analogy of the same part in fish clearly prove it. For in the cod, instead of the cellular network, as in the turtle, there is a network of vessels (of which a