INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 91 sequestrum shows the smooth surface of the old shaft; the rest is eaten out into bays and hollows by granulations proceeding from the periosteum or from surviving superficial layers of bone. A new case of bone has been in process of formation around it, but it is still very soft and porous, and has mostly been broken away in preparation. The whole bone was in two pieces, broken through the sequestrum, which shows that its ends were still firmly attached to the surviving parts of the diaphysis. There has been more of osteomyelitis than of periostitis about the case. 5.54. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Necrosis. Hunterian. Portion of a tibia macerated and dried, showing a large seques- trum in process of separation. The sequestrum in this case is irregular all over, showing that the disease was mostly in the deeper parts of the bone. It extends all round the medullary cavity and nearly the whole length of the diaphysis, stopping short of either epiphysial line. It is partly surrounded by a case of new bone, in which the surviving superficial layers of the old shaft (considerably rarefied) are readily distinguishable from the more finely porous new bone outside. The grain of the old bone is longitudinal; that of the new bone is mainly perpendicular to the surface of the shaft. 5.55. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Sequestrum sepa- rated. Hunterian. A tibia, upper end incomplete, macerated and dried, showing a large sequestrum completely loose and partially invested in a new case of bone, which is recognizable as composed partly of the old shaft, partly of new periosteal bone developed on its surface. A considerable part of the sequestrum shows the old surface of the bone, and over the region of this there has been very little new bone- formation from the periosteum, contrasting strongly with the amount '■which has occurred where there was surviving old bone. The sequestrum in parts extends all round the medullary cavity. The inflammation has not extended the length of the lower epiphysial line. The new bone is formed in irregular lumps, the grain of which is more or less perpendicular to the shaft. The old bone shows a longitudinal grain, and is more regular.