HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 242 larly rises by several branches which ahnost at once unite into one vessel. The glands look as if made up of globules of mercury enclosed in minute vesicles, an appearance due to the overdis- tension of the lymphatic spaces and the shrinkage of the fleshy adenoid tissue in drying. 12.23. The Lymphatic Vessels and Glands "of the Groin." Hunterian. D. 54. Six or seven lymphatic glands and their vessels injected with mercury, similar to the preceding. In turpentine. The lympli spaces of the glands less completely injected. 12.24. The Lymphatic Vessels and Glands of the Groin. Hunterian. D. 52. "Eight or nine of the glands of the absorbents in the groin from the adult female subject; they are injected with quick- silver to great minuteness. The absorbents of the surrounding cellular membrane are even injected and passing into the glands. In some of these last, the mercury appears like a number of pin heads, showing the existence and size of the cells of the gland; in others, the vast numbers of smaller absorbents of the size of the finest human hair, covering the external surface of the gland, prevent us from seeing the cells which lie under them, and give the idea of the glands being a congeries of vessels—only some of these glands communicate not only with the glands lying before them, but with those of each side by collateral absor- bents. The inguinal artery, though not injected, is seen running through the middle of this cluster of glands." Some of the lymphatic vessels pass before and some behind the artery, show- ing that the glands belong, partly at least, to the deep inguinal set. The specimen had at some time been placed in spirit. An attempt to make it fit for turpentine again was only partially successful, as the mercury sweated out so much that drying was stopped before it was complete. (J.H.T., 1896.) 12.25. The Deep Lymphatics of the Lower Limb, accom- panying the Femoral Artery. Hunterian. QQ. 2. " The femoral artery, or that part of it which reaches from the groin to the ham; on its outside clings an absorbent, the