INFLAMMATION OF BONE DUE TO SYPHILIS. 127 bone, slightly rarefied on the surface, and with a small cavity scooped out in its centre. Possibly the result of irritation of the peri- osteum by some chronic ulcerative process in the overlying soft parts. It is almost needless to say that it is not syphilitic. IV. Tumours of the Bones. (1) Osseous and Cartilaginous Tuviours of Bone: Osteomata and Exostoses. 5.166. Osteoma (Ossifying Chondroma) of Fibula. Hiinterian. Section of a large tumour enveloping the upper two-thirds of a fibula. History unknown. The tumour is egg shaped, the broad end upwards, and slightly flattened on the top. It measures 24 by 15 cm. Externally it is enclosed in a fibrous sheath like periosteum. Numerous large blood-vessels, coarsely injected red, run over it. In the cut surface the shaft, head, and upper epiphysial line of the fibula, where they have been traversed by the cut, are distinctly recognizable. The lower epiphysis is also sliced to show the line there also cartilaginous. The top of the growth rises I'd cm. above the top of the fibula, 3 cm. above the epiphysial line. The bulk of the tumour is composed of bone, rising in irregular masses from the surface of the shaft. Throughout the tumour, as in normal bone, there are strands of soft fibrous tissue, in which, here and there, blood-vessels appear. Towards the outside the bone becomes more irregular, and the gaps between the osseous processes are filled up with cartilage. This is found all round the exterior of the mass in a layer which varies greatly in thickness—in some places thin, in others extending in irregular masses between the trabeculae of bone for 2 or 3 cm. Microscopically, a section shows irregular masses of car- tilage with strands of fibrous tissue between them, and occasional portions of bone embedded in and presumably developing from the cartilage. It is too much degenerated to show details of structure. (MS. Notes, J. H. T., p. 7.) 5.167. Cancellous Osteomata of Femur, Tibia, and Fibula. Hunterian. Lower half of a femur with the whole of the tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the abov«. The specimens are very imperfect, the friable cancellous tissue of the ends of the bones and