42 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. have been partly saved, but it is more probable that it was severely crushed and stretched if not completely severed. 3.4. Ankylosis of the First and Second Ribs, probably after Fracture. Hunterian. The first and second ribs of the left side macerated and dried. The fusion commences at a point corresponding with the double origin of the first head of serratus magnus. About an inch in front of this the bony bridge and the second rib have been very thin, and have been broken away in the line of the intercostal space and also for about 2 cm. of the line of the second rib. In front of this gap a band of bone, about the thickness of the ribs, comes down from the first and supports the anterior end of the second rib, acting apparently as the real shaft of the bone. The articular head of the sternal end of the first rib is expanded and irregular as if from chronic osteo arthritis. 3.5. United Fracture of the Ribs. Hunterian. The second, third, and fourth ribs macerated and dried, illustrat- ing the above. All the three ribs have been fractured at the 230sterior, and the two lower at the anterior angles as well. There has been considerable displacement, the posterior fragments project ing and overlapping the anterior : consequently the new formation of bone is considerable. The danger of injury to the lungs from such displacement is obvious. 3.6. United Fractures of the Ribs. Hunterian. Two lower ribs macerated and dried, illustrating fracture at the posterior angle. The displacement is similar to that in the preceding. The posterior fragment in the one projects downwards; in the other, rather upwards as well as outwards. 3.7. United Fractures of the Ribs at the Posterior Angle. Hunterian. Two of the floating ribs, tenth and eleventh apparently, macerated and dried, illustrating the above. In both there is considerable thickening. In one there seems to have been no displacement; in the other, the posterior fragment has been driven upwards and inwards.