IIUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 222 11.44. Aneurism of the Aorta. Hunterian. KK. 2. " The trunk of the aorta, from an adult; aorta ascendens seen aneurismal about the middle of its arch ; the sack equal to a child's head at birth ; the upper side full of lamellated, firmly coagulated blood; the upper contained fluid blood, and is now empty." Besides the large saccular aneurism, the aorta presents a fusiform dilatation, about 6 cm. in diameter, extending from the valves to the origin of the innominate artery. From the front of this dilatation, about 3 cm. from the origin of the innominate, the globular aneurism rises by a round orifice about 2 cm. in diameter. The aorta is highly atheromatous, with numerous calcareous plates. There is no coagulation in the fusiform dilatation, and the orifices of the large vessels are clear. 11.45. Aneurism perforating the Chest Wall. Hunterian. KK. 3. "The anterior half of the same sac (the preceding specimen) adher- ing to the sternum and cartilages of four true ribs." The sternum -and second and third right ribs are eroded, and the aneurism passes out in the second interspace and forms an oval sac on the •outside, 7 cm. by 4 cm. by fully 1 cm., with thick walls, and filled with laminated coagulum. Where the aneurism has encountered Isone, the sac, as usual, has atrophied, till at last the bone lay bare to the blood, and the edges of the sac are firmly united with the periosteum. 11.46. Aneurism of the Aorta. Hunterian. KK. 2a. " An aneurism of the arch of the aorta about the size of an orange : the two carotids are separated two inches from each other by the distension of the bag behind; an opening has been made, showing coagulated blood." The thrombus can be seen from the orifice of the aorta, almost completely obstructing it, and completely filling the aneurism. The sac rises from the arch of the aorta in such a way that the whole of the great vessels are more or less affected at their origins. The right carotid and subclavian rise close together from the apex of the sac, rather to the right side, as if it were partly an aneurism of the innominate. They have been cut open, and are both very nearly if not quite obstructed by a mass ■of laminated clot which lies across their mouths, but hardly at all