224 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. returning later; but in this side it remained always Aveaker than in the right. Some months before his death the skin began to be discoloured and oedematous, and about six weeks before his death a blister formed and burst. Finally, an area about the size of a shilling died about a fortnight before his death and began to separate; and blood began to ooze from the fissure araund the edges of the slough. The day before he died it was seen that the slough adhered to a large plug of blood-clot, which served as a plug to the orifice. Next morning there was pretty severe hae- morrhage, which was arrested by pressure. A few hours later he was seized with coughing; and, on trying to turn himself in bed, the plug started out with such force as to strike against the foot of the bed, and he died instantly. From the illustration the aneurism is seen to have been a large fusiform one of the whole arch, with a projecting sac in front which pierced the chest, and behind, it pressed on and eroded the bodies of the vertebrae. The edges of the sac adhered strongly to the periosteum. There were "many small ossifications" in the wall of the vessel (i.e. atheroma with calcareous infiltration). It had also almost pene- trated the trachea. A dark mark on the thrombus indicates the point at which the slough adhered to it. 11.49. Perforation of the Sternum by Aneurism. Hunteriun. Dried preparation of part of the ribs, sternum, and intercostal muscles, showing a large hole—irregularly circular in shape, and measuring about 6 cm. in diameter—through the sternum, which is almost divided just below the junction of the manubrium and gladiolus. The second and third costal cartilages are very slightly eroded, and have been pressed aside so that the end of the third rests on the fourth, and that again on the fifth. This may have belonged to the same case as the preceding, but there is no plate of the sternum and ribs, and the description is not full enough to identify it absolutely. As to such lesions of the bones as appear in this specimen, William Hunter wrote {loc. cii., pp. 344 and 348): " The injury that happened to the sternum and verte- brae in the above case was different from a common caries; for in such cases, where there is loss of substance in a bone, there is something analogous either to ulceration or mortification. But in this case the appearance was rather as if the blood had insensibly