180 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. the ossification which has produced the ankylosis is in the liga- mentous structures around them; these joints are consequently- thickened. The two first ribs are very firmly ankylosed to the sternum by similar thick masses of bone surrounding the joints. Part of the cartilages of the eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs are preserved; they are sheathed with bone, and also show some ossifications in their interior. The sterno-clavicular joints are very much deformed by osseous growths around them ; the right also shows eburnation of part of its articular surface, such as is seen in arthritis deformans. The intersternal joint is cased with bone growing around its edges; its articular surface has remains of cartilage on it, and there has been no attempt at ossification across it. The sacrum is not ankylosed to the lumbar vertebrae, but there are considerable osseous outgrowths from the edges of its upper surface. The coccyx is ankylosed to it. Both sacro-iliac synchondroses have been firmly ankylosed. The ossa innominata have been sawn off, and the right one forms the next specimen; it was particularly firmly ankylosed to the sacrum. The left was less firmly ankylosed; it is not now in the collec- tion. The greater part of the changes in this and the succeeding specimen are clearly not those of arthritis deformans, but rather of the rare disease described as arthritis ossificans or universal bony ankylosis. Unfortunately, the history of the specimen is unknown. 6.102. Ankylosis of Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis, Ossifications around Acetabulum and in the Attachments of Muscles. Hunterian. The right innominate bone and part of the lateral mass of the sacrum belonging to the preceding specimen. The ilium and sacrum are firmly ankylosed by a thick plate of very dense bone over the top and front of the joint, and by some ossification between the surfaces. There are also osseous outgrowths in the position of the attachments of muscles round the crest of the ilium, on the anterior inferior spine, and above the acetabulum where the rectus femoris arises, along the tuberosity of the ischium, ilio-pectineal line, and on the front of the body of the pubis. The whole circle of the cotyloid and transverse ligaments round the edges of the acetabulum is also ossified. The hip appears not to have been ankylosed. There is no eburnation or scoring of the articular surfaces, as in arthritis deformans.