366 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 25.11. Vortical Transverse Section of the Ear, from before. Hunterian. HH. 8. The posterior half of the preceding. It shows the posterior wall of the external auditory meatus pitted with the ducts of the ceruminous glands. A shred of the memhrana tympani demarcates the meatus from the tympanic cavity. Above is seen the mastoid antrum, separated from the middle fossa of the skull by a thin plate of bone continuous with the tegmen tympani. In the mass of bone between the tympanic cavity below and the orifice of the antrum above are seen, as in the preceding, the Fallopian canal, marked with a bristle, and the external semi- circular canal, in section, about 2 mm. above it. Rather above and internal to the tympanum lies the posterior half of the vestibule, with the orifices of the semicircular canals indicated by bristles. Internal to the tympanic cavity is seen the bulb of the jugular vein in the jugular fossa, with the orifice of the sig- moid sinus leading out of it posteriori)'. The bulb extends out- wards and upwards behind the tympanic cavity, separated from it by a plate of bone about 1 mm. in thickness. The sigmoid groove, ending in the jugular fossa, is seen on the posterior side of the specimen. Below, and internal to the lobule of the pinna, a,ppears a mass of parotid gland bounded internally by the styloid process. 25.12. Vertical Transverse Section of the Left Ear, from behind. Hunterian. HH. 10. The left temporal bone and external ear divided in a vertical plane about 3 mm. further forward than the preceding, and, like it, slanting a little forwards. The membrana tympani is seen in section with the handle of the malleus attached to its internal surface. The body of the malleus shows the articular surface for the incus; and the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle, attached to its long process, is seen rising from a conical pro- jection of the inner wall of the tympanum. Above this is seen a gap in the tegmen, the hiatus Fallopii, which transmits the great superficial petrosal nerve, a branch of the facial. Inwards lies the cochlea cut obliquely. .25.13. Transverse Vertical Section of the Ear, from before. Hunterian. HH. 9. The posterior half of the preceding, showing the remainder