xxxvii INTRODUCTION. The quarrel with the Monros became public in 1757, but the Commentaries did not appear till 1762. In the meantime he published a number of papers upon matters concerning which he had no quarrel with any one. In 1754 he became a member of the Society of Physicians, the precursor of the London Medical Society. The members of the society were accustomed to meet for the discussion of cases, and the reading of papers which it was designed to publish afterwards. The papers were to be as far as possible narrations of facts and observations ; " hypothetical disquisitions, points of controversy, numerous and needless quotations, in short, whatever has rather a tendency to show the parts and erudition of the writer than to advance medical knowledge, will be suppressed." The communications were made by the members, and were received also from friends of members all over the world. In 1756 the society published the first volume of its transactions under the title. Medical Observations and Inquiries. In all six volumes were issued, and most of William Hunter's short papers appeared in them. He seems to have been a leading member of the society, as a very large proportion of the communications were made through him, and the publications ceased after his death.^ Frequently the papers were accompanied bj' preparations, anatomical or pathological, many of which were presented " to Dr. Hunter's most valuable and magnificent museum." - They came from all parts of the United Kingdom, and a few even from America. Several of the papers are classics in medical literature, and the preparations connected with them are proportionately interesting—vide Index of Names. William Hunter's contribution to the first volume of Medical Observations and Inquiries^ is a very good account of the various kinds of aneurisms, their symptoms, pathology, and treatment. It also contains the first notice of one of his discoveries—the aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism, or arterio-venous aneurism,—the con- of science were in favour of the former" (Hunter). Bostock's Phyftiology, third edition, London, 8vo, 1836, p. 610. 1 Several of these papers of William Hunter were reprinted after his death in A arious works, but the only collected edition of them which I know of is one mentioned in the Bihliographiaches Lexikon der Aerizte. A number of his papers from Aledical Observafious and Inquiries and Philo-iophical Trans- actions were translated into German and published in 1784-85 in two volumes, 8vo, by C. G. Kuhn, at Leipzig. I have not seen these volumes.—J.H.T. "^Medical Observatiom and Inquiries, vol. vi., p. 100. ^ "The history of an aneurism of the aorta, with some remarks on aneurisms in general," Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. i., p. 323.