HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. xliv The work of Hewson was for a time strangely neglected, but its great merits are now fully appreciated. In addition to his work on the lymphatic system he was one of the first to shed light upon the nature of the coagulation of the blood and that everlasting puzzle, the function of the spleen. He was also celebrated as a microscopist. He recognized the true shape of the human red corpuscle, and described the "central particle" of those of birds, reptiles, and fishes, which is now known as the nucleus. He discovered the white corpuscles of the blood and lymph, and noted their similarity. Most of the experiments still performed to demonstrate to students the characters of the red corpuscles, and many of those which show the composition of blood plasma were devised by Hewson. William Hunter's microscope is j^reserved in the museum. Its highest combination of lens and eyepiece is about equal in magnify- ing power to the ordinary low power combination supplied to students of histology nowadays {e.g., ocular of 6 magnifying power with objective 18 mm.), but vastly inferior in eflTiciency. Probably Hewson's was very similar. That he should have discovered so much with it must fill us with wonder and admiration for his vism eruditus. His microscopic preparations are in the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Hewson's discoveries greatly helped to esta- blish Hunter's theory that the lymphatics were the only absorbents. After the retiral of Hewson, Hunter applied to the College of Glasgow for some one to succeed him, and William Cumberland Cruikshank, a student and a graduate of Glasgow University, was recommended. He arrived in London in 1771, and was appointed to the care of the museum, library, and dissecting-room. After a few years he was taken into a partnership which lasted till Hunter's death. Under their agreement all the preparations he made became the property of Hunter, just as in the case of Hewson. He continued the investigation of the lymphatic system. Hunter referred to him as follows 1:—"And last of all, Mr. Cruikshank, whom I also bred to anatomy, and took into my house upon the same plan, with the opportunities which he has had in this place, and by being par- ticularly attentive to the lymphatic system, at my desire, has traced the ramifications of that system in almost every part of the body; and from his dissections figures have been made, which, with what I had before, will enable us to publish (we hope in a little time) a full account of the whole system, illustrated by accurate engravings." When Hunter died the work was still unfinished, but Cruikshank ' Introductory Lectures, p. Gl.