INFLAMMATION OF BONE DUE TO SYPHILIS. 125 (C) CHANGES IN THE BONES DUE TO INFLAMMATION, PROBABLY SYPHILITIC IN ORIGIN, COMPLICATED BY SEPSIS. 5.160. Syphilitic (?) Disease of the Tibia, and Invasion by Septic Rarefying Osteitis. Hunterian. Lower portion of a tibia macerated and dried, illustrating the above. About the junction of the lower and middle thirds on the inner (subcutaneous) surface there is a deep erosion, apparently the result of an advancing osteitis—a septic caries. Round this erosion two layers of bone are recognizable : (1) a recent periosteal crust, all but the borders of which is eaten away ; revealing (2) a deeper layer of porous periosteal bone rising up like the sloping edge of a node above and below the erosion, which had destroyed the central parts of it, and had laid bare and was eroding the original shaft. Probably this was a node of syphilitic origin which had been cut down on, a proceeding which William Hunter advised, saying that you " would thus bring on a suppuration which seldom fails of resolving them." {Lectures, p. 202, MS. R.C.S.Eng., 42, c. 28.) 5.161. Syphilitic Enlargement of the Tibia, followed by Septic Osteitis. Hunterian. Tibia, probably from a grave, the articular ends to a great extent destroyed. The middle third of the shaft presents a spindle-shaped swelling composed of a crust of new bone formed upon its crest and inner and outer surfaces. Towards the borders of the node the new- formed bone is fairly dense, evidently not recent. Over this are patches of a very thin recent formation. Towards the middle the greater part of the old new-formed bone is rarefied, undermined, and in places broken down by a new inflammatory process, which was probably septic, and possibl}^ the result of cutting down on the node. Compare the preceding. Where the new crust is broken, the old shell of the bone is visible, also greatly rarefied and eroded—caries, probably septic, of the node and underlying old shell. 5.162. Syphilitic (?) Enlargement of the Tibia. Invasion by Ulcer. Hunterian. Portion of a tibia macerated and dried. The lower fourth of the bone, from the tip of the malleolus, is covered on its inner