HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 172 extend in irregular lips around the joints—in many cases very large and interlocking firmly, but nowhere going the length of ankylosis and fusion. Some of the articular surfaces for the ribs show a dense eburnated surface pitted with round holes leading into the cancelli. There are also osseous outgrowths from the edges of several of the vertebral bodies. 6.79. Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Ankylosis. Ar- thritis Deformans of the Hip-joint. Hunterian. Lower dorsal and lumbar portions of a vertebral column, with the sacrum and pelvis, from a woman, the ligaments preserved, dried, illustrating the above. There is a very pronounced curve, with the convexity to the left, from the eighth dorsal to the last lumbar vertebra. The bodies are very markedly rotated towards the con- vexity, the first four lumbar distorted in the usual way on the concave side, and the last lumbar on the convex side, by its sharing in the curvature and being crushed down upon the sacrum. There has also been slight curvature with rotation of the bodies towards the right in the mid-dorsal region. There are large outgrowths of dense bone from the edges of the vertebrae—in many cases bridging over the intervertebral discs, and interlocking. There is also very marked arthritis deformans of the joints of the articular processes. In neither situation is there actual bony ankylosis. The right acetabulum also shows the effects of the same disease in a marked degree. It is enlarged and deepened by osseous additions round its edges. A thick plate has also extended a considerable way across the cotyloid notch, and also over the fossa for the ligamentum teres, almost shutting it off" from the acetabulum. A considerable area of the upper and posterior floor of the acetabulum is eburnated and polished. Compare Nos. 6. 68, 69, 70, and 71. 6.80. Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Ankylosis. Hunterian. A vertebral column, the sacrum absent, macerated, dried, and articulated, showing the above. The column is straight, or very nearly so, down to the seventh dorsal vertebra, when it takes a sudden bend to the left. This is confined almost entirely to the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth dorsal vertebrae, which are notably reduced in depth on their left sides. They are also firmly ankylosed