202 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 10.22. Heart of Turtle. Hunterian. S. 24. Dissection in the style of No. 10.18, illustrating the anatomy of the above. It consists of two distinct auricles, of both of which the greater part has been cut away (compare next specimen), and a " kind of single ventricle " imperfectly divided into two chambers by an interventricular septum, which is incomplete towards the auricular end. The veins enter the auricles towards their dorsal aspect: the venae cavae, entering the right, are marked by blunt quills; the pulmonary veins, entering the left, by sharp quills. The part of the ventricular portion which corresponds to the left ventricle of the human heart is recognized by the great thickness of its muscular walls; it lies dorsal to the part which corresponds to the right ventricle. The ends of all the quills in the veins lie to the dorsal side of the incomplete septum. Three large vessels rise from the ventricles, of which the anterior, distinguished by bifurcating about 3 cm. from its origin, is the pulmonary artery; it rises from the right ventricle by an orifice guarded by two semi-lunar valves. Close behind, and rather to the right of it, rise the two other vessels which are the right and left arches of the aorta. The left lies next to the pulmonary artery; its orifice has only two semi-lunar valves; it lies almost directly above the septum, and seems to rise as much from the right as from the left ventricle; the right arch has three valves, rises above the left ventricle, and gives origin to the carotid and subclavian arteries. The muscle of the ventricles presents a very open fasciculated ap- pearance. 10.23. Heart of Chelonian. Hunterian. S. 24c. A heart very similar to the preceding (not described), less dis- sected, showing the two large globular auricles and the shape of the ventricle. Injected red. THE VALVES OF THE HEART. 10.24. The Aortic and Mitral Valves. Hunterian. S. 35. Dissection of the above, showing their relations and the musculi papillares and chordae tendineae of the mitral.