HVNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. XXVI to become acquainted with Dr. Cullen, the present [1783] celebrated professor at Edinburgh, who was then [1736] just established in practice at Hamilton, under the patronage of the Duke of Hamilton. Dr. Cullen's conversation soon determined him to lay aside all thoughts of the Church and devote himself to the profession of physic." ^ In 1737 he went to reside with Cullen at Hamilton, to assist him in his practice, more probably as apprentice than as partner, since Cullen was considerably his senior, and had already been qualified, as qualification went then, for several years before he started prac- tice there.- With him Hunter spent three years, which he after- wards described as the happiest in his life, commencing his medical education in what was then the usual way. In November, 1740, with a view to completing his education, he proceeded to Edinburgh, where, besides other studies, he attended the anatomy course of the first Alexander Monro; and in the summer of 1741 went on by sea to London, provided with letters of introduction to a number of Scotsmen settled there, among whom were Smellie and James Douglas. At that time there was certainly an understanding that he should return to Hamilton and enter into partnership with Cullen, ^ From An Account of the Life and Wrilinijs of the Late William Hunter, M.D., etc., by Samuel Foart Simmons, M.D., F.R.S., p. 2. London, Svo, 1783. ^The above statement requires explanation. Cullen, in point of fact, had no medical qualification till 1740. He attended Arts classes in the University of Glasgow, and served an apprenticeship to Mr. John Paisley, an active member of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, in that city before the year 1729. Towards the end of that year he went to London, where, after an examination (held by what body is not known to the writer), he obtained an appointment as surgeon on a merchant ship during a voyage to the West ladies. About the beginning of 1732 he returned to Scotland, and practised near Shotts for two years. During the winter sessions of 1734-3.5 and 1735-36 he attended medical classes at the University of Edinburgh. In 1736 he settled in practice in Hamilton, putting himself thereby within the territorial jurisdiction of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow. In the same year he underwent a part of his examination for admission as a member of that Corporation, but it would appear that he did not submit him- self for the remaining part. In September, 1740, he received the degree of Doctor of Medicine from the University of Glasgow, and in 1744 he presented his diploma as Doctor to the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, whereupon he was admitted as a "freeman member of the Faculty." He was elected Praeses of that Corporation in 1747, and was continued in that office during the following year. It is evident that the reason why he did not complete his examination in the Faculty was his intention to enter it as a physician by presentation of his University diploma, to obtain which he was doubtless then making preparations. Compare note 2 on p. xxvii.