HUNT BRIAN ANATOillCAL CATALOGUE. 34 face in their progress towards the centre of the cartilage. We are ver}' seldom able to trace them into its substance, because they terminate abruptly at the edge of the cartilage, like the vessels on the Albuginea Oculi, when they come to the cornea. The larger vessels which compose the vascular circle plunge in by a great num- ber of small holes, and disperse themselves into branches between the cartilage and bone. From these again there arises a crop of small short twigs that shoot towards the outer surface; and whether they serve for nourishing only, or if they pour out a dewy fluid, I shall not pretend to determine. However that be, I cannot help observing, that the distribution of the blood-vessels to the articu- lating cartilages is very peculiar, and seems calculated for obviating great inconveniences. Had they run on the outer surface, the pres- sure and motion of the two cartilages must infallibly have occasioned obstructions, inflammations, etc., which would soon have rendered our motions painful, and at last have deprived us of them. But by creeping round the cartilaginous brim, where there is little friction, or under the cartilage, where there is none, they are perfectly well defended from such accidents." In his Medical Commentaries, p. 53, William Hunter remarks about the above passage: " In that little essay I advanced that the vessels of the articulating cartilages pass, secure from friction and pressure, between the gristle and the bone. This appearance I saw distinctly in several injected joints; but afterwards I found out that the vessels which I had seen did not belong to the superficial cartilaginous crust which remains in the adult, but to what lies immediately under it, in growing animals, before the ossification is complete." These vessels, nevertheless, are to all intents and purposes the nutrient vessels of the cartilage, as it is they that bring the blood into its neighbourhood. 2.4. Blood-vessels of an Articulation. Hunterian. L. 13. A knee-joint injected red, rather coarsely and laid open, showing the vascularity of the synovial membrane and fatty pads which fill the crevices of the articulation. Also the avascularity of the articu- lar cartilages. 2. 5. Vascularity of Synovial Membrane. Hunterian. L. 5. The first rank of bones of the carpus from an injected arm, show- ing the synovial fringes bright red, while the cartilages are pure white.