116 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. table and diploe with a much smaller area of inner table had necrosed and been cast off, and then the adjacent living bone healed with con- densation and thickening and a permanent hole into the cranium. There is a smaller similar excavation in the left supra-orbital ridge. 5.123. Syphilitic Disease of the Skull. Healing after Separation of Sequestrum. Hunterian. A cranium macerated and dried, illustrating the above. There is an excavation and perforation similar to that in the preceding speci- men, produced by the separation as a sequestrum of nearly the whole left half and part of the right half of the frontal bone. The inner table is the one of which least had been destroyed. There is some excavation of the remainder of the frontal bone, as if superficial exfoliation had taken place ; and corresponding to this there is a considerable thickening by periosteal formation of new bone on the inner table, in consequence of inflammation spreading through from the outside. 5.124. Syphilitic Disease of the Skull. Healing after Separation of Sequestrum. Hunterian. A skull cap macerated and dried, illustrating the above. There has been separation of a very large sequestrum (mostly of the outer table) over the vertex, including about half of both parietal bones and small areas of the frontal and occipital. The area of superficial necrosis measures 13 cm. in the sagittal by 13 cm. in the transverse direction, and is of roughly circular outline. In the centre the sequestrum has included the whole thickness of the vault, and there is a gap of rhomboid shape, 6 "5 cm. in the line of the sagittal suture and 5 cm. transversely. The excavated areas, both superficial and deep, are almost symmetrical on the two sides of the sagittal suture. The osseous floor and edges of it are rather porous, healing being not so far advanced as in the preceding. There is no [thickening of the skull. (b) syphilitic disease of the rest of the skeleton. The history of the following bones is unknown, but they have been found to present appearances similar to those of undoubtedly syphilitic bones in other museums, and they are catalogued accordingly.