268 HUNTERIAN AiVATOMICAL CATALOGUE. scrophulous glands.") The condition is advanced, almost the whole of the glands having necrosed, and passed into the con- •dition of caseation. Calcareous infiltration has also occurred in several of the caseous masses. 13.3. Tuberculosis of the Bronchial Lymphatic Glands. Himteriun. D. 65. " The same disease in the glands, surrounding the root of the lungs." A large mass of lymphatic glands about the roots of the lungs and bifurcation of the trachea, showing tubercular disease secondary to phthisis pulmonalis. The glands show the three stages: viz. active growing tubercles, caseation, and calcareous infil- tration of the caseous masses. " In the centre of the glands are seen ossifications, or a something between that and petrifaction, to the size frequently of a small hazel nut. These sometimes are coughed up in pulmonary consumption, and demonstrate it scrophula falling on the lungs (compare this with 63 in Lungs)," Nos. 18.25-18.38. 13.4. Tubercular Lymphatic Glands. Hunterian. D. 61«. Not described in the old catalogue. Section of a mass of greatly enlarged lymphatic glands, presenting a fleshy surface with small patches of yellow, apparently caseous patches, scattered over it. On microscopic examination the section is found to be composed chiefly of hyaline material, which is probably amyloid, though it does not stain satisfactorily. The tissue is fairly tough and firm. A few tubercles and patches of caseous necrosis are recognizable. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 39.) V. Tumours affecting the Lymphatic Glands. 13.5. Carcinomatous Infiltration of Lymphatic Gland. Hunterian. D. 31. A section of a mass of enlarged lumbar glands, illustrating the above condition. The glands are very much enlarged, the mass measuring 10 by 7 cm., some of them being as large as chest- nuts ; they are fairl}^ soft, tough, and homogeneous in section. A large vein, probably one of the iliacs, is embedded in one side of the specimen. "From Mr. H. (Hoquet), who had a scrophulous