TUBERCULAR DISEASE OF THE VERTEBRAE. 175 died paralytic, arms, etc.; spinal marrow pressed on by the angle of incurvation ; in other places the vertebrae carious, and spinal marrow bare." The bodies of the vertebrae, from about the fourth cervical to the second dorsal, have been totally destroyed, and their place taken by a tubercular abscess, which has extended forwards, making a considerable cavity, which lay in front of the upper cervical vertebrae, doubtless bulging into the pharynx. Collapse of the column has occurred, and the cord has Jbeen nipped in the upper dorsal region between the upstanding column of vertebral bodies below and the arches of the destroyed vertebrae above. The disease has extended up and down between the dura mater and the vertebral bodies as high as the specimen extends (about the axis), and down to the eighth dorsal vertebra. 6.86. Extensive Tubercular Disease of the Vertebrae. Angular Curvature. Hunterian. LL. 34. " The Vertebrae of the Back," fifth dorsal to second lumbar, " with the head of the ribs from a scrophulous child ; the bodies of almost all the vertebrae are bare and eroded before; the intervertebral substances and cartilages themselves in many parts destroyed; almost the whole of the bodies of the two middlemost vertebrae gone, the spinal marrow appearing bare behind ; the cartilages of the heads of almost all the ribs eroded. From a child in Saint George's Hospital." The bodies of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae seem to have been the primary seat of the disease, as they are most destroyed. At this point there has also been a certain amount of collapse with a corresponding slight angular curvature. Behind, two of the spinous processes project to an extent which must have been quite appreciable during life. 6.87. Tubercular Disease of the Vertebrae. Hunterian. The last dorsal and the lumbar vertebrae and sacrum macerated, dried, and articulated. The adjacent surfaces of the bodies of the first and second lumbar vertebrae have been irregularly eroded and excavated, probably by tubercular disease. The destruction of the bodies is most advanced in front. The disease has also eaten its way through the bone into the vertebral canal. The front of the twelfth dorsal and third lumbar vertebrae also show some erosion. Probably there was a degree of collapse, which has been remedied by the articulator.