Ixxv INTRODUCTION. been identified, and references to the engravings are given in the catalogue. The majority of the other figures vi^ere from his own collection, now the property of the Eoyal College of Physicians of London, and from that of John Hunter. Even before his first work was published Matthew Baillie had begun to succeed in practice, a success that grew so rapidly that he began to have little time for anatomy. In 1787 he was appointed physician to St. George's Hospital. In 1799 he retired from teach- ing altogether. His practice, almost entirely consulting, became so large that he did but little scientific work after the age of forty; but his practice was founded on the science to which he had devoted his earlier years. He is a most brilliant example of the truth of William Hunter's saying: " Were I to guess at the most probable future improvements in physic I should say that they would arise from a more general and more accurate examination of diseases after death. And were I to place a man of proper talents in the most direct road for becoming truly great in his profession, I would choose a good practical anatomist, and put him into a large hospital to attend the sick and dissect the dead." ^ After Baillie retired, Cruikshank ^ arranged to continue the teaching with the assistance of his son-in-law, Leigh Thomas, after- wards president of the College of Surgeons, and of James Wilson, one of Hunter's last pupils. But he died suddenly in 1800. Wilson, who is referred to by the late Sir Benjamin Brodie ^ as ^'facile princeps among the London anatomists of that day," became virtually head of the school. Baillie, in 1802, had intimated to Glasgow University that he was now ready to give up the museum to that institution whenever it had a building fit to receive it. In the meantime Wilson had the use of the collection, and knowing that he was soon to lose it, he made most strenuous efforts to make a substitute for it, in which he was most successful. In 1807 the building was pronounced ready, and the transfer* of the collection began. It was two years after before it was fairly settled in Glasgow. ' Introd. Lectures, p. 73. ^ After Hunter's death Cruikshank made a collection for himself, largely with the assistance of Wilson, which, on his death, was bought by the Russian Government and taken to St. Petersburg. A few of the preparations are figured in Baillie's Engravings. Thomson's Life of Gullen, p. 741, note x. ^ It was sent from London by sea.