PERIOSTEUM, BLOOD-VESSELS, AND MARRO W OF BONES. 9 1.34. Vascularity of Perichondrium. Hunterian. L. 12. " A patella with its inserted tendon from the vasti, etc.; it shows the perichondrium on the inner surface of the patella, near the edges exceedingly vascular; arteries injected red." 1.35. The Vascularity of Bone. Hunterian. I. 17. A transverse section of a bone, highly injected red, showing the above. " When everything but the bony substance has been con- sumed by being some time underground, or properly burnt, even the compact part examined with a glas? appears full of pores, and bony substance is vascular; hard as it is; full of vessels." Compare No. 1. 1. " In the living animal when the bone is laid bare and scraped, haemorrhage from it is inconsiderable; but by injections we prove bony substance to have a great number of arteries, and consequently we presume corresponding veins, and hence bony substance is not only nourished in every part, but may decay in every part, and there is no part of bony substance that may not be thoroughly changed by disease. We must not therefore consider bony substance as a dead extraneous body, like a piece of wood, put in to support the soft parts, but it is a living part and liable to diseases as well as the other parts." (Lectures, p. 118, MS. RC.S.Eng., 42. c. 28.) The cancellous tissue containing the marrow appears very highly vascular. Dried and mounted in turpentine. 1.36. Vascularity of Bone. Jeffray Collection, No. 20. Longitudinal section of the upper third of a humerus rather imperfectly injected red, showing the above. The visible blood- vessels in the solid bone are but few in number. Compare No. 1. 40. Mounted in turpentine. 1.37. Vascularity of Young- Bone. Hunterian. I. 18. Frontal bone of a foetus highly injected red. It is composed of radially disposed spicules of bone with spaces between, which are occupied by the osteogenic tissues. Though stripped of both pericranium and dura mater it appears throughout of a bright vermilion colour, being evidently extremely vascular. 1.38. Vascularity of Young Bone. Hunterian. I. 19. Parietal bone of a foetus injected red, similar to the preceding.