xxviii HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. •George's Hospital under Dr. James Wilkie, and anatomy under Dr. Frank NichoUs. He also attended "a course of lectures on experimental philosophy by Dr. Desaguliers." " Of these means of improvement he did not fail to make a proper use. He soon became expert in dissection, and Dr. Douglas was at the expense of having several of his preparations engraved. But before many months had elapsed he had the misfortune to lose this excellent friend." "Dr. Douglas died on the first of April, 1742, in his 67th year, leaving a widow and t-wo children." " This event, the probability of which his father had pointed out to him, does not seem to have retarded his progress. Such a loss, and at so critical a period, would probably have destroyed the hopes of a man of less abilities and industry than he possessed. But he seems by this time to have had a consciousness of the superiority of his talents, and he who feels himself equal to great things will not easily be dismayed." ^ He continued working as hard as ever, and in 1743 his first paper, "Of the Structure and Diseases of Articulating Cartilages, by William Hunter, Surgeon," appeared in the Transactions of the Royal Society.'^ The paper is a very interest- ing one, and was a solid contribution to the knowledge not only of the anatomy but also of the pathology of the joints; it and the fine series of preparations on which it was founded, show that already he was a competent anatomist and a skilful dissector and injector. In accordance with the last wishes of James Douglas, Hunter con- tinued to live with the family and to act as tutor to the son, who was supposed to be studying medicine, and in 1743 accompanied him to Paris for further study. Young Douglas was very dissipated, and would do nothing, but Hunter himself made good use of his opportunities. An interesting memento of this tour—a manuscript in Hunter's writing—is preserved in the museum, it is entitled, "An Abstract of the most remarkable things in Mr. Ferrein's course of Anatomical Lectures, read in 1743-1744." Ferrein was anatomist in the Royal Academy of Sciences in Paris, and Professor of Medicine and Surgery in the Royal College of France.^ According to the 1 Simmons, op. cit., p. 8. ^ Phil. Trails., vol. xliii., p. 514. The identical preparation showing the structure of the cartilages, which was figured, still survives. Some of the injected joints are very fine. They form part of series 2, Anatomy of the Joints. ^ He was the author of many monographs on medical subjects, some of which are referred to in Hunter's notes of his lectures. His name remains in the " pyramids of Ferrein " in the kidney.