HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 130 the above. On either side of the carina, in the angle between it and the body of the sternum, near the posterior end, is an oval mass of smooth dense bone. The larger measures 21 by 12 by 10 mm.; and the smaller, 16 by 10 by 7 mm. They rise from both body and carina exactly opposite one another. On the deep surface of the bone in the middle line, corresponding to their bases, is a single circular tumour of similar character, 14 mm. in diameter, and projecting .5 mm. inwards. Near the anterior end of the sternum there is another small nodule on the inner surface, also exactly in the middle line. There are four shot holes in the body of the sternum. 5.172. Large Osteoma of the Vertebral Column of Codfish. FresenUd by Professm- Young, 1897. Three of the dorsal vertebrae from a codfish (which had been boiled), cleaned and dried. On the left side of the spinous processes is a large mass of bone, of globular shape, filling up the angle between them and the lateral processes, and with a smaller pro- jection which envelops one of the latter, and passes between the othei' two about half way across the front of the bodies. The tumour seems to spring chiefly from the side of the body and lamina of the middle one of the three vertebrae. A small out- growth projects some way into the vertebral canal, and must have compressed the cord. The main mass is slightly flattened radially to the vertebral column. It measures 7 cm. longitudinally, 7 cm. transversely, and stands out 5-5 cm. from its base. It is composed of very closely set spicules of bone radiating from its base; this bone is similar in character to that composing the skeleton of the fish, if anything rather harder and more dense, and very heavy. The surface of the growth looks somewhat like the capitulum of a daisy, a resemblance heightened by its having a yellow colour due to dried particles of the soft tissue entangled between the ends of the spicules. 5.172a. Osteoma of Vertebral Column of Codfish. Presented by Mrs. J. E. Eoberison, Glasgow, 1898. Tail portion of the vertebral column of a large codfish, show- ing a tumour similar to the preceding, about the size of a