Ixiv HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. business enough for two hours a day," and the diHgent student selilom tired, for they were not merely lectures, but largely demonstrations, being illustrated by dissections of the fresh subject, supplemented by permanent preparations from the museum. The notes in many places have a scrappj' character and other indica- tions that the lecturer was demonstrating upon the body and com- menting upon what he showed, and in some of the sets of notes there are lists of the preparations exhibited. " In explaining the structure of parts, if a teacher would be of real service, he must take care not merely to describe, but to show or demonstrate every part. What the student acquires in this way is solid knowledge arising from the information of his own senses; thence his ideas are clear and make a lasting impression on his memory. It is therefore necessary for giving a complete course of anatomy to provide a number of fresh subjects, and to have a competent stock of anatomical preparations." He was very careful that preparations should not supplant the fresh subject. They "should not be used as substitutes for a body] but supplementally, to demonstrate such circumstances clearly as are intricate, confused, or invisible in the fresh subject. And a demonstrator who makes fine preparations should be very much upon his guard; otherwise he will be apt to make an abuse of preparations; he will insensibly contract a partiality to that in which he excels; the elegance of preparations is delusive with students; and the more they are used there will be less expense and trouble with fresh subjects." Properly used, he had no doubt as to their usefulness, and "they serve two purposes chiefly, to wit, the preservation of uncommon things, and the preservation of such things as required considerable labour to anatomize them so as to show their structure distinctly. Of the first sort are the pregnant uterus, diseases, parts of singular conformation, etc. Of the second class are preparations of the ear, the eye, and in general, such as show the very fine and delicate parts of the body, which we call the minutiae of anatomy." Wet pre- parations he preferred to dry, " because they are more like nature." The preparations were handed round the class, and students were requested to handle them carefully, and on no account by pressing or bending to try their strength or texture. " With all possible care they are constantly wearing out or growing the worse for use. Many of them are the result of patient labour and not easily restored; many of them are such rarities as are not to be recoverable when lost by any pains that can be taken."