312 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 21.2. The Spinal Cord and its Membranes. Upper Half. Hunterian. E. 15. The upper half of the spinal cord " from an adult human subject," the dura mater opened behind and turned aside, showing the fine transparent arachnoid loosely enveloping the cord. It is separated from the dura mater by a space, the subdural space, except where the nerves, passing out, take with them a sheath from it, which unites with the inner surface of the dura mater. The roots of the nerves are seen rising by an anterior and posterior plane of fibres from the antero- and postero-lateral sulci of the cord. In front the dura mater is seen passing out upon the nerves as their outer sheaths; shows also the spinal ganglia formed by the nerves after perforating the dura mater. 21.3. The Spinal Cord and its Membranes. Lower Half. Hunterian. E. 16. The lower half of the same cord with the dura mater opened in front and turned aside, showing the arachnoid membrane and the conical termination of the cord, and the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves running for some distance within the membranes, forming a bunch of cords of graduated lengths called, from their resemblance to a horse's tail, cauda equina. The arachnoid forms a loose sac enveloping the bunch of nerves, just as in the upper part it envelops the cord, and extending nearly to the bottom of the sac of dura mater, uniting with it only where a nerve passes out. 21.4. The Spinal Cord and its Membranes. The Pia Mater. Hunterian. EE. 42. The upper half of the spinal cord, the dura mater laid open behind, and the arachnoid dissected away through the fine areolar tissue of the sub-arachnoid space to show the pia mater, an opaque white membrane closely enveloping the cord. The bristles are introduced to exhibit the connections between the pia and the dura mater along the sides of the cord called ligamenta denticulata. 21.5. The Cauda Equina and Filum Terminale. Hunterian. EE. 43. The lower half of the preceding spinal cord, the dura mater slit open and turned back; the arachnoid is dissected away