HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 824 behind the bregma above down to and through the base of the skull, so as to divide the right external auditory meatus, but to pass in front of the left. After passing through the base of the skull the plane of the section changes so as to slope backwards in the line of the pharynx, which is laid open, showing the naso-pharynx, palate, base of tongue, and orifice of the larynx. The specimen also shows the relations of the external to the middle ear, and of the middle ear to the middle fossa of the cranium, and the cranial contents. The details are indicated on the accompanying diagram. Figure II.—Coronal Section of the Head. The upper part shows the scalp, the bony vault of the cranium, and the brain. The outline of the brain and the sulci, with fringes of vascular pia mater dipping into them, are drawn in heavy lines ; the fine lines, curving round the points of the sulci, indicate roughly the passage from cortex (grey matter) to medulla (white matter) of the cerebrum. C. in the neighbourhood of the left ear indicates the Carotid Canal in section. C.Ar. in the neck indicates the Carotid Artery. C.Cal. The Corpus Callosum, below which is a narrow triangular space—the Transverse Fissure of the Brain, occupied by the Velum Interpositum. On the left the outer half of the wing of this space, separated from the rest by a thin white septum—the Fornix—is part of the left Lateral Ventricle. C.Stri. The Corpora Striata. Ep. The Epiglottis over- hanging the Orifice of the Larynx. Fau. The Fauces. 1.0. The Internal Capsules. M.Aud. On the right, the External Auditory Meatus, closed internally by the Membrana Tympani. Nar. The Posterior Nares. Op.Th. The Optic Thalami, with the narrow vertical slit-like Third Ventricle between them. P.Var. The Pons Varolii in section near its anterior surface. Pal. The Soft Palate and Uvula. Phar. The anterior wall of the Pharynx. Si. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus cut transversely; the three lines passing from its angles represent Dura Mater and Falx Cerebri. Syl.F. On either side is placed between two of the branches of the posterior limb of the Sylvian Fissure. T. On the right, the Tympanum, in which parts of the ossicles are seen. X. On the left, is placed between the Cochlea and part of the Tym- panum.