49 INJURIES OF BONE. 3.32. United Fracture of the Humerus above the Middle. Very oblique. Shortening and Inversion. Hunterum. Left humerus macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The fracture in this case has passed higher and more obliquely than in the last, from above and behind downvpards and forw^ards. There is very considerable overlapping of the fragments, and abduction of the upper. They are firmly welded together side by side. The marrow cavity of the lower is pressed against the side of the upper: in the upper it is sealed with bone. The line of fracture has passed a little outside the musculo-spiral groove, and probably did not interfere with the nerve. On placing the humerus beside a normal bone, there is seen to be considerable inversion of the lower end. 3.33. United Fracture of the Humerus below the Insertion of the Deltoid. Complex. Hunterian. Right humerus macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The fracture is rather complex. The upper fragment appears to be split obliquely from about the centre of the shaft downwards and out- wards to a point about the middle of the outer side. The outer fragment being abducted, its point projects there considerably. There has also been a fracture passing from the outside obliquely downwards and inwards completely across the shaft. The triangular portion to the inside between the two fissures appears not to have been separated from the upper fragment, as it is not out of line with the inside of the shaft above, but to have been partly broken and bent slightly inwards, and the lower fragment has been drawn up like a wedge between the two points of the upper. The bone is now fairly straight and well mended without a very great deal of thickening. The upper fracture runs dangerously near the musculo- spiral groove. 3.34. United Transverse Fracture at the Insertion of the Deltoid. Hunterian. Right humerus macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The lower end of the upper fragment projects slightly outwards and forwards, otherwise the outside of the bone is smooth, but on the inside there is a mass of spongy callus, making a thickening of the bone considerably larger than a walnut; it hardly extends far enough outwards to have interfered with the musculo-spiral nerve.