GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. 11 1.44. Cartilaginous Epiphysis. Hunterian. L. 8a. Head and neck of a femur from a young subject, injected red and sliced longitudinally, showing the highly vascular growing bone and the avascular temporary cartilage composing the epiphyses, from which develop the head, neck, and trochanters. There are a few channels in the cartilage which would carry visible vessels when ossification commenced ; compare succeeding specimens. 1.45. Ossification in Cartilage. Hunterian. N. 38. " A longitudinal section of the tibia and ends of the fibula, with the patella, from a child at nine months, injected red." In the centre of the cartilaginous head of the tibia is a centre of ossi- fication, about the size of a hemp seed, composed of highly vascular cancellous bone. The cartilage of the epiphyses and patella, except for a few blood-vessels running in channels here and there through it, is avascular, contrasting strongly with the highly vascular centre of ossification and growing ends of the shafts. 1.46. Ossification in Cartilage. Hunterian. N. 10. A patella, dried and mounted in turpentine, showing in the centre an irregular nodule of bone about the size of a pea. 1.47. Ossification in Cartilage. Hunterian. N. 78a. " The scapula of a slink calf, pretty much advanced, or not far from birth : the basis of the scapula for about an inch is still cartilage ; the basis of the bony part is most vascular, as if the principal forma- tion of bone was in that part, and the arteries, which are injected red, are seen elongating from it into the cartilaginous base for one-eighth of an inch at least: they are of large size, and perpendicular to the base or in the same line ; some of them seem to communicate with others at their extremities, which are suddenly interrupted, and look as if they had been cut off there as they went out to the peri- chondrium." A slink calf is commonly understood to be a calf which has never sucked ; here it simply means a foetal calf 1.48. Ossification in Cartilage. Hunterian. N. 78b. The fellow of the preceding, dried and mounted in turpentine. Being transparent it shows the ramifications of the arteries in the bone. There are two large ones running from the neck towards the base, one under the spine, the other near the posterior edge.