113 TUBERCULOSIS OF BONE. interior of the bone—macerated and dried. From the epiphysial line an elongated irregular cavity extends for a distance of about 12 cm. up the centre of the bone, to open by a rounded orifice on the inside. Its walls are of fairly firm cancellous bone. There are also several smaller cavities which open independently in other directions. The outside of the shaft is covered with rough periosteal Qew bone, which is fairly dense, and the medullary cavity is blocked above by bone—in some parts cancellous, but mostly dense—evidently new-formations of considerable age. The smaller section of the bone has an extremely irregular eroded appearance externally, and in the hollows lie numerous partly detached sequestra. The articular sur- faces have mostly been destroyed. Several small abscess cavities have opened upon them. Probably a chronic tubercular disease with abscesses which had burst and let in pyogenic organisms. (5) Inflammation of Bone due to Syphilis. (a) of the cranial bones. 5.117. Syphilitic Disease of the Skull. Extensive Ne- crosis. Hunterian. A cranium macerated and dried, showing the above. The chief seat of the disease has been the frontal region. Practically the whole frontal bone, with the exception of the orbital plates and the portions of the inner table at the back of the frontal sinuses, after being deeply eroded almost all over its outer surface, has necrosed and become an enormous sequestrum. The groove of separation is cut completely through to the inside, except a bridge of bone about 2 cm. wide, which still connects it with the right parietal; but for this and some interlocking angles here and there, it is free. The groove follows the coronal sutures. Below, on the right, the disease has passed over into the great wing of the sphenoid, part of which is included in the sequestrum; also into the malar bone, which has been detached as a sequestrum and lost. In front it runs along the supra-orbital ridge and down round the nasal processes. The right orbital plate and external angular process of the superior maxilla are considerably rarefied. The rarefying osteitis, with patches of erosion of the outer table (syphilitic caries), extends all over both parietals and the upper part of the occipital bone. H