Ixxiii INTRODUCTION. meeting, but you have here written down everything I have to say about this business. 1st. I will cheerfully give up to the College of Glasgow, providing the executors and Mr. Cruikshank give their consent, every article in the museum except the anatomical preparations, the few pictures in the house, and a few professional books in the bedroom, for what impartial judges shall reckon a proper consideration. 2nd. The anatomical preparations cannot be given up, because I cannot live without lectures, because my success in life will probably depend upon lectures, and because part of Mr. Cruik- shank's support is derived from lectures, with whom I have entered into a written agreement. 3rd. If Glasgow insist upon it, I shall give up the pictures and the few books, rather than that measures in contemplation having so proper an object should not take place.^ Under those circumstances I shall with the greatest pleasure give up the collection to Glasgow, and I wish most heartily the scheme may meet with no interruption from any party concerned. You know I believe my reasons for not wishing to be present at this meeting. My situation with the executors makes it proper that the scheme should be proposed to me as well as to them, and that I should not of myself make any bargain with Glasgow, which cannot be valid without their consent. Whenever it is proposed by mutual friends I shall agree to it most willingly.—I am, dear sir. Yours sincerely, M. Baillie. (Copy. No date.) But the University evidently wanted the anatomical preparations. On the other hand, Combe, the author of the catalogue of Hunter's collection of coins, and one of the trustees, desired to keep the medals in London, and tried to raise a subscription to buy them from Glasgow, for which an Act of Parliament would also have been necessary. The correspondence seems to indicate that there was some disposition to disregard Matthew Baillie in the matter. So far as is known, it closes with a letter from which the following is an extract. It is supposed to have been addressed to Dr. Fordyce, another of the trustees. " I own I was much surprised, and have not yet ceased to wonder ^ It is not known what this object was.