HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. with M. Ferrein's lectures there is a set of "notes on a course of Chyrurgical operations performed before the Society of Navel (sic) Surgeons, by Sam Sharpe of Guy's Hospital, March, 1746," taken by Hunter. It seems not improbable that the attendance on this course, and the writing of the " compendious system of anatomy and physiology," were both undertaken with the probability of succeeding Sharpe in the post of lecturer. For in the following autumn, when Mr. Sharpe found himself so busy in practice that he could not continue the lectures, the Society asked William Hunter to take his place. According to Simmons, " he is said to have experienced much solicitude when he began to speak in public," but anyhow he proved so satisfactory to the members of the Society that they asked him to give in addition a course of anatomy lectures. These were equally successful. Thus started his career as a teacher of anatomy. Simmons ^ has well said that, "as he had it in contemplation to teach anatomy, his atten- tion was directed principally to this object; and it deserves to be mentioned, as an additional mark of his prudence, that he did not precipitately engage in this attempt, but spent several years in acquiring such a degree of knowledge and such a collection of preparations as might ensure him success." These anatomical preparations were the nucleus of his museum. Years after, when he was the most successful practitioner of mid- wifery in London, he extended the plan of his museum, and collected anything and everything that might add to its usefulness in the diffusion of knowledge and culture. The prudence with which he commenced it is equalled only by the boldness and at the fiame time the shrewdness with which he went ahead with his plans. The great value that the museum, the expenses of which were paid as he went along out of his professional income,- ultimately attained, proves that he possessed an uncommon degree of business capacity and enterprise. The school at first was located in Covent Garden, then in Jermyn Street, and finally, in 1771, was removed to a building which he had ■erected specially for the purpose—the Great Windmill Street School •of Anatomy. Up to the time of his starting to teach anatomy his 1 O-p. ext., p. 10. ^This fact and the amount of these expenses on ont department of the museum .are well shown by Mr. George Macdonald, M.A., in the introduction to the Stevenson Catalogue of Greek Coins in the Hunterian Collection, p. xxii., •Glasgow, 1899.