INFLAMMATION OF BONE DUE TO SYPHILIS. 121 5.143. Syphilitic Enlarg-ement of the Tibia. Hunterian. Lower half of a tibia macerated and dried, showing the above. An old standing enlargement. The inner surface shows two node- like swellings, and appears to be also thickened as a whole and made unduly convex. The surface of the upper node is porous as if it were being re-absorbed—perhaps being invaded by an ulcer. Pro- bably syphilitic. 5.144. Syphilitic Enlargement of the Tibia. Hunterian. Upper two-thirds of a tibia macerated and dried, showing a node-like thickening of about one-third of the inner (subcutaneous) surface. It is of old standing, dense, and fairly smooth. The grain of the new bone is unusually regular, and runs longitudinally. Pro- bably syphilitic. 5.145. Syphilitic Enlargement of the Tibia. Marked Con- densation. Hunterian. Upper part of a tibia, probably from a grave, showing a node-like swelling which must have been of old standing, as its surface is as smooth and dense as that of the original shell. A section of it placed alongside shows the almost complete filling up of the medul- lary cavity with very dense bone. It is just possible to trace the outline of the old shell by its being of slightly lighter colour than the new bone. Probably an old syphilitic node, though it might be the result of a chronic periostitis from a blow. 5.146. Structure of a Syphilitic Enlargement of the Tibia. Hunterian. LL. 36. " A longitudinal section of the tibia, on which a large node, probably venereal, was formed. The leg had been injected, and the j bone afterwards steeped in an acid." It is beautifully transparent, being mounted in turpentine. The new-formed bone is seen on both sides of the section, readily recognizable between the old shell i and the vascular periosteum. The old shell has a decidedly longi- tudinal grain; the new bone has rather the appearance of having been formed in lumps perpendicular to the surface of the shaft. Com- pare No. 5. 57 in particular and other specimens. The medullary