SPINA BIFIDA. 337 22.19. Spina Bifida. Meningo-myelocele. Hunterian, EE. 50. Lumbar and sacral portions of the vertebral column of a child with adjacent soft parts, showing a spina bifida laid open. The sac is fully larger than a walnut. A considerable area of its apex is composed of soft membrane, continuous with the skin. The whole length of the arches of the sacrum, as in the preceding, is widely open. The end of the spinal cord passes out across the cavity of the tumour to the membranous area, from which the nerve roots spring and recross it to their foramina. As described by Professor Cleland, " the right and left roots occupy a complete mesial septum, which broadens at the deep part, where the roots deviate to their respective sides." In the mesial line, towards the upper part of the mem- branous area, is a little foramen, into which a fine bristle was passed for a considerable distance up the spinal cord—the central canal of the cord. The cavity of the sac is clearly the subdural space ; the effusion "has been poured only into the right and left halves of the space behind the nerve roots, while the anterior space, the situation for which is within the septum, has remained undeveloped." 22.20. Spina Bifida. Meningo-myelocele. Hunterian. EE. 51. The left half of the lower part of a foetus, showing the above in section. Injected red. The external tumour is very small. It is situated over the sacrum ; most of its wall is membranous, and the membrane is decidedly vascular. The cord becomes very small some distance above the tumour, but it runs out into the sac in the usual way; and from the membranous area the nerves rise and run forwards and upwards across its cavity to their foramina. 22.21. Spina Bifida. Meningo-myelocele. Hunterian. EE. 55. Part of the trunk of a foetus, showing a spina bifida of considerable size situated over the lower lumbar and upper sacral vertebrae. The greater part of the sac is a thin, soft, translucent membrane, con- tinuous with the skin. The spinal cord, decidedly reduced in size, passes out to the apex of the sac, which is dimpled, the dimple being the mouth of a sinus which can be traced for about an inch into the cord—marked with a bristle. The nerves are seen very distinctly passing from the membranous wall across the cavity to tiheir foramina Y