HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 158 together into a mass of spongy bone, the cancellous tissue, where the surfaces of the specimen are broken, appearing to be continuous from one to the other—a line of slightly closer bone indicating the former lines of separation. Externally, the boundaries of the several bones are roughly indicated by the fact that the ankyloses are not con- tinuous, but there are gaps where it has not taken place. These gaps correspond to ligaments between the bones, while the points of fusion correspond with the synovial cavities. For example, there is a tunnel running obliquely through the foot, betvi^een the astragalus and os calcis, which clearly represents the interosseous ligament: before and behind, where the bones are normally separated by articular cavities, they are now completely fused together. In like manner, there is a hole from dorsum to sole between the scaphoid and the cuboid, another between the bases of the first and second metatarsals, and several smaller ones in various places—practically all of which correspond to interosseous ligaments, while the points of fusion correspond sufficiently accurately with the distribution of the various synovial membranes. On the dorsum, where the ligaments are com- paratively thin, the lines of the articulations are marked on the surface only by shallow grooves or not at all; whereas in the sole, where they are very thick and strong, and dip in between the bones to a considerable extent, the lines of separation are both deep and wide. Apparently, therefore, there has been no ossification of the ligaments. On the inner side, opposite the articulation of the astragalus and scaphoid, the new cancellous bone has been rotted away to some depth, revealing a narrow cavity in the centre—the obliteration of the joint having been incomplete except towards the edges. Between the astragalus and cuboid is a similar cavity also in the centre of the joint. The surface of the old bones and of the new bridges between them, where still preserved, is curiously uniform in texture and appearance. It is a thin, fairly dense shell with smooth surface, pierced with numerous fine pores. The appearance resembles that of the surface of an old piece of masonry, through which water has long trickled, and covered stone and mortar alike with a stalactitic crust which more or less conceals the joins. Parts of the articular plate of the upper surface of the astragalus are pre- served. They are decidedly irregular, and perforated by numerous small holes, as if eaten away by granulations. It is interesting to compare this specimen with those of Ankylosis of the Knee-joint, probably tubercular, Nos. 6.16-20, in which the same condition of ankylosis across the synovial cavity, while the ligaments have not