90 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 5.51. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis and Periostitis. Necrosis and Rarefaction. Sequestrum in process of Separation. Hunteriun. Upper portion of tibia, epiphysis absent, macerated and dried. An irregular fragment of an extremely diseased bone. The epi- physial surface of the diaph3^sis is gone, and the cancellous bone further opened out and eroded in various places. The denser portion of the shaft has been eaten out in all directions by granula- tions both externally and in the marrow cavity. On the one side is a large white sequestrum recognizable as the inner surface of the shin. This sequestrum extends the whole thickness of the shaft in to the medulla. Around it at one or two points there is some new bone formed between the periosteum and portions of the old shaft which had not necrosed. The other side shows a large area of this new bone, and above it a fairlj' solid piece of the old shaft which had not died. On the latter are several thin flat sequestra, which show that the outer layer of bone connected with the periosteum has died and exfoliated, while the deeper connected with the bone marrow has survived. 5.52. Acute Suppurative Periostitis and Osteomyelitis. Necrosis. Hunteriun. A portion probably of the same bone as the preceding, showing on one side a large irregularly eroded sequestrum connected with other smaller sequestra extending all round the medullary cavity. It is only partially separated from the rarefied non-necrosed bone. On the other side the sequestra are thinner and internal, abutting on the medullary cavity. Outside the latter sequestra a layer of periosteal new bone has been formed for about half way round the shaft. 5.53. Acute Suppurative Periostitis and Osteomyelitis. Necrosis. Hunterian. A tibia macerated and dried, showing a large irregular sequestrum of dense bone in process of separation. The sequestrum includes the whole diameter of the shaft. To the inside the groove of separation is completed. Above and below it is only partially formed, and even the line where separation would have eventually occurred is for the most part indefinite. One portion of the-