xxii HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. obstetrical fame is chiefly anatomical, and that his greatest claim on our admiration and gratitude arises from his anatomical work and influence."^ Of William Hunter's printed works undoubtedly the most important is the one already alluded to. It embodies his greatest discoveries; it has been characterized by Waldeyer,^ so lately as 1886, as containing "the foundations of our present knowledge of the anatomical relations of the membranes and the gravid uterus " ; it is still the foremost work of its kind in this department of anatomy; compared with it his other works are of minor con- sequence, yet they make contributions to anatomy, physiology, and pathology, as well as to the practice of medicine and surgery that would of themselves have given him a very considerable reputation. Further, he was the founder, the organizer, in every way the leading figure of the school of anatomy of which Sir Charles Bell wrote in 1812,^ the school "founded by the Hunters has made all the anatomists of the present day at home and abroad." It was through this school of anatomy even more than through his writings that his great influence made itself felt. In 1828, the condition of anatomy in Britain at that time and previously, especially as to the difficulty—" whether arising out of the state of the law or an adverse feeling on the part of the people " —of obtaining subjects for dissection, the manner in which they were obtained, and "the evil consequences thence ensuing as well to the sciences of medicine and surgery as to all who study, teach, and practise them, and eventually to the members of the whole com- munity," was the subject of an enquiry by a select committee of the House of Commons; * and the evidence taken by that committee and the report which they issued are the most reliable sources of information regarding these matters. The importance of anatomy and the principle that the government of this country ought to protect anatomists and supply materials for the teaching of it, were recognized by a statute of Henry VIII.; but long before the beginning of the eighteenth century the provisions 1 Harveian Oration, by Dr. Matthews Duncan, Edinburgh Medical Journal, No. cclii., June, 1876, p. 1070. 2 Biographisches Lexikon der Aertzte, Gurlt and Hiisch, Vienna and Leipzig, 1886, s.v. William Hunter. « Letters of Sir Charles Bell, p. 197, 8vo, London, 1870. ''Report from the Select Committee on Anatomy, 1828, printed for the House of Commons.