100 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. t " I, being told this singular case by Archibald Dunbar, Esq., of Thunderton, on whose estate this miller lives, sent for him and examined this thigh narrowly and found it as firm as the other; the only difference I could discover was that it is somewhat thicker and a little more curved, but no remarkable tightness or compactness of the muscles, nor any unnatural cohesion of them to the bone, come in place of the former; only at the opening from which the bone was drawn there is a large and very firm cicatrix : he walks with so little a halt that it is barely perceptible. " I am not sure but this may be a singular case—to me I own it is—■ nor do I remember of meeting with any history like it in any author I have read. Portions of the tibia being brought away are frequent; but here there was no second bone to resist the contractile powers of the muscles, while the old bone was loose at both ends. This is not a splinter of a bone, but a large portion of its whole circumferencej undisfigured except at its two extremities, where it is eat away and destroyed by the disease. Considering how many of the muscles of the thigh are inserted into, and some of the leg have their rise from, the linea aspera, is it not wonderful how the patient could perform any of the motions of the thigh and leg during the disease 1 for it is very certain that he walked most of the time a great distance to school, and even now that he should have as compleat an use of that thigh and leg as of the other. "On the whole it is obvious that the cure was all the work of nature and time; and may not it serve as a caution to surgeons not to be too precipitate in amputating limbs 1" The sequestrum is figured at the end of the volume (Plate I.,, fig. 1). It is followed by " An account of a Diseased Tibia, as a supple- ment to the last article" (by William Hunter, M.D. Read April 20, 1761), the specimen connected with which is unfortunately not in the collection. In the latter case (it was not under Hunter's care) a new shaft had been formed round the sequestrum, enclosing it so completely " that though it was quite loose, it could not be thrown out"; therefore he points out that, while the one case shows that " in Surgery we should trust a great deal to nature," yet, on the other hand, "art may sometimes cure a disease, which would get the better of nature." " So that in surgery, as in physick, there will always be a field for the exercise of judgment." In the latter case part of the new bone would have had to be cut away to let the sequestrum out; the limb was amputated ! The patient recovered.