HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. xlviii were taken. Like all great works on scientific subjects, they were the fruit of many years of patient observation and experiment. In 1741 Hunter, as we have seen, became associated, first with Smellie, and then with James Douglas. These two share the credit of directing Hunter into this line of work. Smellie's obstetric works are on other lines than Hunter's, and are not less famous.^ Douglas' researches on the anatomy of the gravid uterus never reached publi- cation ; among his plates in the Hunterian Museum there are several on this subject, which are of considerable merit, though not to be compared with Hunter's. The work begun under Douglas only reached publication in 1774—over thirty years later. " Anatomy," he says, in the preface to the engravings, " has, at least, kept pace in improvement with other branches of natural knowledge. Many of the moderns, through much labour and patience, as well as ingenuity and judgment, have thrown consider- able lights upon the structure and operations of the human body ; and they have, particularly by engravings, made the study of that art, in which humanity is so much interested, both more easy and pleasant. Most of the principal parts of anatomy have, in this manner, been successfully illustrated. " One part, however, and that the most curious, and certainly not the least important of all, the pregnant womb, had not been treated by anatomists with proportionable success. Let it not, however, be objected to them that they neglected what in fact it was rarely in their power to cultivate. Few or none of the anatomists had met with a sufficient number of subjects, either for investigating or demonstrating the principal circumstances of utero-gestation in the human species. But let what cannot be praised in others be passed over in silence. With respect to the i3resent undertaking, in the year 1751 2 the author met with the first favourable opportunity of examining, in the human species, what before he had been studying in brutes. A woman died suddenly when very near the 1 Vide Life of Dr. William Smellie, by Professor John Glaister, M.D. Glas- gow, 1894, 8vo. Also Dr. Smellie and Dr. William Hunter, by Professor John Young, M.D., Keeper of the Hunterian Museum, Brit. Med. Jour., Aug. 29, 1896. The original drawings for Smellie's Anatomical Tables are preserved in the Hunterian Museum. They are in red chalk, and many of them signed J. Van Rymsdyk. How they came there is not known. They are beautifully executed. -This is the date given in the preface ; in the description of the first plate 1750 is the date given. The original sketches are also dated 1750, which, without doubt, is the correct date.