lix INTRODUCTION. little that he wrote about them and the style of his references show that he studied them principally for the sake of the light they threw on the structure of the human placenta; most of his studies of comparative anatomy being directed to the improvement of human anatomy. "The structure of some parts may be so delicate, or involved in the human species, as to be undiscoverable; yet in another species the structure of those very parts may be apparent. Accordingly, many things have been first discovered in comparative anatomy, and were afterwards found out in the human body. Even monsters, and all uncommon and all diseased animal productions are useful in anatomical enquiries; as the mechanism or texture which is concealed in the ordinary fashion of parts, may be obvious in a preternatural composition. And it may be said that Nature, in thus varying and multiplying her productions, has hung out a train of lights that guide us through her labyrinth." Among the comparative anatomy preparations there are several of the allantois. It is not recognizable in any of the human preparations, and for this reason William Hunter denied its exist- ence altogether in the human subject. There were plenty of descriptions of the human allantois current in his time, but these were either erroneous observations or were wholly imaginary. Indeed it was unlikely that, with the means at his command, he should have recognised the little tubular diverticulum which repre- sents it. He made no attempt to describe the development of the embryo, perhaps wiselj^ The earliest conception figured in the atlas is at the fifth week, and the embryo is little more than outlined; but in the collection there is a beautiful little preparation of a conception which cannot have been much more than three weeks old, and which is probably the one referred to in the preface to that work. "Even since the last plate was finished he had an opportunity of making a drawing of a younger embryo than he had before seen," and he promised to off"er to the public a description of it and also of " a very curious case "—" a conception in the Fallopian tube," " probably in the way of a supplemental plate or with the anatomical description of the gravid uterus which he proposes to publish at full length." He never carried out this scheme, and there is no detailed description of either of these cases, nor sketches of the embryo in the museum. The embryo and placenta from the extra-uterine case are the original of the illustration in Quain's Anatomy "after Allen Thomson," tenth