INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 95 running in all directions, mostly across, so that it has not the longitudinal grain of the original bone. 5.62. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Necrosis. Re- storation of Shaft of Tibia by New-formation of Bone. Hunterian. "Right tibia macerated and dried, showing the above. There has apparently been necrosis of the greater part of the middle two-thirds of the diaphysis. The bone has been restored by formation of a thick column of new bone, in which are still visible the cavities in which the sequestra lay and the cloacae by which they escaped. The old medullary cavity has been filled up with cancellous bone. The length of the bone has probably been completely preserved and also its form, though with considerable thickening and increased weight. 5.63. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Restoration of Shaft of Humerus after Separation of Necrosed Portions. Hunterian. Left humerus of a young adult, macerated and dried (perhaps a graveyard specimen), showing a stage in the process of repair more advanced than in the preceding. The necrosis has extended nearly the whole length of the shaft. It has been restored with a great deal of thickening. There are numerus cloacae leading to cavities in many of which sequestra are still enclosed, having been prevented from escaping by the new-formed bone around them. The new bone is denser and less rough than in the preceding specimen. 5.64. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Repair after Necrosis and Separation of the Sequestrum. Ab- scess in the Head of the Bone. Hunterian. Right humerus, from a grave, showing the above. The disease has resulted in necrosis of the upper third of the shaft. The sequestrum has disappeared, but the cavity and the cloaca remain, and the shaft around them is considerably thickened. It has evidently been an old affection, as the new bone is very dense and fairly smooth. The head is imperfect, and there is a hole in it which looks like an abscess cavity; the bone round it is rarefied, and the disease was probably in a more active stage than in the sequestrum cavity below, with which it ha.« a communication.