.145 SEPTIC ARTHRITIS. tissue. The whole shaft, especially the lower half, of the femur is thickened in consequence of old standing osteomyelitis. In the popli- teal space is a cloaca, 7 cm. long by 2 cm. wide, leading into a large sequestrum cavity which extends down to the head of the tibia. This appears to have been produced by acute suppurative osteo- myelitis, which has extended into the knee-joint and destroyed it. When the advancing stage was over, healing has resulted in com- plete bony ankylosis of femur, tibia, and patella, which last has been broken away. The tibia is displaced somewhat to the outside of and behind the femur. There is a considerable bend outwards, and a slight one forwards. A very strong ankylosis, and in fairly serviceable position. See also No. 5.65. (b) where the organisms have gained access directly through wounds. 6.2. Acute Septic Arthritis of the Ankle-joint and Osteomyelitis of the Tibia, consequent on Com- pound Fracture. Himterian. LL. 12. Section of the lower end of the tibia, soft parts dissected off to the periosteum, showing the above. Injected red. There has been a fracture of the tibia about the epiphysial line, which has evidently gone septic. The lower end of the upper fragment is seen to be necrosed and undergoing separation ; the limits of the sequestrum in the cut surface are marked with bristles. The point of the frag- ment is sawn off, showing what seems to have been a fissure leading into the ankle-joint, by which, doubtless, the septic organisms gained access to it. The fissure is filled with a mass of soft vascular tissue, which microscopic examination shows to be granulations. The articu- lation seems to have been completely disorganized; its cavity is lined by ragged fibrous-looking granulation tissue. Compare also No. 6.4. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 19.) 6. 3. Acute Septic Arthritis of the Ankle-joint secondary to Compound Fracture of the Tibia. Hunterian. LL. 47. The other half of the lower fragment of the tibia, from which the preceding specimen was taken, showing the same circumstances. K