HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. to him by the Praeses and Visitor." This was the second occasion on which the power of conferring honorary degrees was exercised by the Faculty; it remained in abeyance for many years afterwards. In 1756 he left the Corporation of Surgeons and joined the College of Physicians, for which he was fined by the former body. Soon he was recognized as the leading teacher of anatomy, patho- logist, and practitioner of midwifery in London. In 1762 he was called to attend Queen Charlotte in her iirst confinement, and in 1764 he was made physician extraordinary to Her Majesty, an appointment which finally established his position as a physician and an accoucheur.^ In 1768 he was appointed by King George III. professor of anatomy to the Eoyal Academy, then newly founded, with his friend Sir Joshua Reynolds as president, "an office on which he conferred celebrity by the zeal and ability with which he discharged its difficult and onerous duties." ^ There are a few fragments of his lectures to the Academy in the museum. Simmons remarks that " although by these incidents he was established in the practice of midwifery, it is well known that, in proportion as his reputation increased, his opinion was eagerly sought after in all cases where any light concerning the seat or nature of the disease could be expected from an intimate knowledge of anatomy." His practice became one of the largest ever known in London. It is a wonder that he had the time and energy for anything else. The form of the anatomical collection was determined by Hunter's courses of anatomy, and the researches to which it was related. The researches account for the strength of particular series or departments of the collection; the extent of such a series as the Anatomy of the Lymphatic System or of the Gravid Uterus, for example, is only to be understood when its relations to his works are considered. On the other hand, every series bears the impress of having been designed for the purpose of teaching anatomy as the term was understood in Hunter's time, and every preparation illustrates some point to which he was wont to refer in his lectures. Details as to the dates at which preparations were made, and by 1 William Hunter's holograph accovint of his attendance upon Queen Charlotte is preserved in the Hunterian Museum. We have given a brief description of this in an article in the Glasgow Aledical Joimial, July, 1899, under the title of " William Hunter, Anatomist." ^Munk's Roll of the Royal College of Physicians of England, vol. i.