PERIOSTEUM, BLOOD-VESSELS, AND MARROW OF BONES. 7 1.23. Blood-vessels of the Periosteum. Hunterian. K. la. Portion of a thigh bone, injected red similar to the preceding. 1.24. Blood-vessels of the Periosteum and Bone, Hunterian. K. 8. " The tibia of a child; the injected periosteum is turned down all the way, except where one stratum has remained about the middle. It shows the inside of periosteum exceedingly vascular, with a number of red points, opposite to which, in the bone, are seen the torn ends of small vessels entering the bone." 1.25. Blood-vessels of the Periosteum. Hunterian. K. 9. "The tibia, fibula, and interosseous ligament, in a child, highly injected red, and showing periosteum very vascular; the arteries appear to run a considerable way on the surface of periosteum before they enter the bone." "So we have brought out the periosteum to little more than an expansion of the tendons and ligaments." "I believe one of the uses of the periosteum may be to give the tendons and ligaments a better hold than if merely their internal fibres ran into the bones. But this membrane is continued over these parts of bones where there are no tendons or ligaments inserted, for vessels are entering the surface of bones everywhere. Now, if these vessels had gone directly from the superjacent moving parts into the surface of the hard bone, they would have been cut through every time these parts moved, but the periosteum is an immovable fleshy medium, through which the vessels run in a gradual course to enter the substance of the bones." (Lectures, p. 200, MS. R.C.S.Eng., 4"2. c. 28.) Dried and mounted in turpentine. 1.26. Vascularity of the Pericranium. Hunterian. K. 10. "The parietal bone of a child injected red, showing pericranium to be periosteum in every respect." The red has degenerated to a dark slate colour, probably from impurity of the vermilion. 1.27. Pericranium. Hunterian. iT. 11. "One of the frontal bones injected red, showing pericranium made up of strata."