xiii PREFACE. what appears in his pubHshed works. Wherever it was possible to retain the old description it has been retained, and explanations and amplifications added to it if thought necessary. All such extracts appear as quotations, with the following exception—names of the animals from which the specimens were obtained were always taken from the old catalogue; so invariable was this rule that it was deemed unnecessary to indicate that fact by quotation marks. It is to be understood that all quotations in the descriptions of Hunterian specimens, unless the contrary be specified, are taken from the old catalogue. In addition, many of the new descriptions are really paraphrases of old ones, which were neither sufficiently clear to be satisfactory for quotation, nor of such importance that they absolutely required it; this, of course, is not in any way indicated, but can easily be ascertained by reference to the old catalogue, either MS. or printed. In the very few instances in which, from examination of the specimen, a doubt was felt as to the correctness of the state- ment in the old catalogue, a note to that effect was made in the new description. It is hoped that in this way all that was valuable in the old catalogue has been transferred to the new one. There are also many quotations which are not from the old catalogue. The references to the sources of these are given along with them, and a table of the principal works referred to is given at the end of the book. All the published writings of William Hunter, unpublished papers in the museum, students' notes of his lectures, the works of John Hunter, Hewson, Cruikshank, Matthew Baillie, numerous contemporary papers in the Transactions of the Royal Society and elsewhere, especially in six volumes entitled Medical Observations and Inquiries, by a Society of Physicians in London, of which William Hunter was a leading member, were searched for references to specimens in the museum. In this way a number of valuable descriptions and clinical histories were obtained. The specimens were identified sometimes from descriptions, some- times from plates. The greatest care was taken to ensure accuracy, no record being accepted except on the very strongest evidence that it applied to the specimen under consideration. Further, apart from identification of actual preparations, passages which seemed to apply well to certain preparations or groups of prepara- tions were freely quoted from the works of William Hunter These add greatly not only to the interest of the catalogue, but also to its clearness and instructiveness. It is believed that the new catalogue will therefore be found to give really a much better and fairer