xlvi HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. with the iUustration in Cruikshank's paper, " Experiments on the Nerves, particularly their Reproduction, and on the Spinal Marrow of Living Animals," published in Philosophical Transactions in 1794. The experiments, however, were communicated to the Royal Society in 1776, and this is Cruikshank's account of what happened :i " These experiments were made for another purpose, by which I discovered the independence of the heart's motion on its nerves, as well as the reunion after division, and the regeneration after loss of substance in the nerves themselves. I wrote a paper on this subject a long time since, which the late Mr. John Hunter, to whose memory and talents I am always proud to pay my tribute, presented to the Royal Society, but it was not then printed ; I think Mr. Hunter gave me for a reason, that it controverted some of Haller's opinions, who was a particular friend of Sir John Pringle, then President of the Royal Society. Another gentleman has lately made experiments on the same subject, and has also presented them to the Royal Society. Upon hearing these read at the Society, Mr. Home,- with that intelligence of anatomical subjects that distinguishes his character, and the school he was bred in, remembered my experiments, though made nearly twenty years ago. The present President of the Royal Society, who, fortunately for mankind, prefers the promulgation of science to Haller or any other man, on being made acquainted with this circumstance, has caused the paper on these experiments to be printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1794." On Hunter's death it was found that Cruikshank was co-heir with Hunter's nephew, Matthew Baillie, to the use of the museum for thirty years. Thereafter, till his death in 1800, he was the senior member of the Great Windmill Street School of Anatomy.^ Besides those already mentioned, another member of the Hunterian school devoted particular attention to the lymphatic system—this was John Sheldon, F.R.S. He improved the methods of injecting the vessels, and began a description of them, of which only one part was published.'' He was a pupil of William Hunter and Hewson. He was a devoted admirer of the latter, and was probably one of the 1 Given in a footnote to the paper on Insensible Perspiration, p. 88. ^Sir Everard Home, John Hunter's brother-in-law. '■^ Life of GruikshanTc, Pettigrew's Medical Portrait Gallery, vol. iii., and Diet, of Nat. Biography. ^History of the Absorbent System. London, 1784, 4to. Vide Diet, of Nat. Biography (article, John Sheldon).