82 HUNTSMAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. (b) osteomalacia. 5.31. Deformity of the Humerus due to Osteomalacia. Hwnterian. LL. 1. Posterior half of the left humerus, dissected, of " a man who died at Wapping, with remarkable softness of the bones." This and the three succeeding specimens are from a case described under the title, " A Remarkable Case of the Softness of the Bones, by Mr. Henry Thomson, Surgeon to the London Hospital," in Vol. V. of Med. Obs. and Inq., p. 259, from which the following account is taken: "James Stevenson, a shoemaker in Wapping, aet. 33, five feet seven inches high, enjoyed a good state of health till about the year 1766, when he was seized with violent pains in his knees and feet, and was tormented with a headache, which came on at irregular periods." These pains were supposed to be rheumatic. Shortly afterwards he injured his shoulder by a fall, and was unable to move it for several months. In November 1768 he hurt his right thigh, and was con- fined to bed for a week, and was afterwards unable to walk without assistance. In December of the same year, while being helped up stairs, he struck the toe of his right foot on the edge of the step, and instantly cried out that his thigh was broken. He was confined to bed with great pain, and the leg was shortened and crooked. A fracture of the femur was diagnosed, and splints were applied. The pain continued, but slightly less violent than before. On removing the splints, five weeks later, and moving the leg, the surgeon " was surprised to find the thigh-bone yield, and fall in about a hand's- breadth above the knee," as if there were a fracture, but without any crepitus. The leg bent and broke the same way; and, on examining the tibia, he found a remarkable softness and yielding of the bone, as if it contained fluid. The fractures were attended with very little additional pain. An incision was made over the tibia, and the bone was found to be pliant and yielding, being "only about the solidity and thickness of the rind of cheese." The medullary cavity was filled with a "dusky red or liver-coloured flesh, devoid of sensibility, and from which the osseous covering had been removed without the least haemorrhage; in short, it appeared to me an unorganized mass, similar to the flesh-like substance or coagulum which may be formed on a stick or feather by stirring fresh-drawn blood in a basin." The left leg and thigh lost their straightness in the same way ; and as the deformity in- creased, he lost all power of motion. Throughout he continued to