xxxviii HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. ditions which result when a communication is established between an artery and an adjacent vein in consequence usually of a wound. Wounding the artery in blood-letting at the bend of the elbow was a not very uncommon accident, and cases of arterio-venous aneurism must have occurred from time to time, but the condition had quite escaped notice till William Hunter recognised its nature and described it. He gave a full account of its pathology and treatment in a second paper in 1761, and further notes in 1770.1 Plaster of Paris casts were taken from several cases, but neither they nor any specimen of the aneurism are now in the museum. His account of the condition is clear, full, and accurate; it contains practically all that is known about it now. The series of ordinary aneurisms is a considerable one. In 1757 he also wrote - an account of a case of extreme emphysema, due to injury of the lungs by broken ribs, successfully treated by minute punctures of the skin to let the air out, and to this was appended a long paper on the structure and diseases of the cellular membrane, as the connective tissues were then termed. It is a remarkable paper in several ways. It bears evidence of a great amount of experiment and wide observation. The most important points as to the connective tissues were the demonstration—(1) that they were not to be regarded as the inorganic basis of our organized and vascular solids (as Haller supposed), but they were in themselves active vascular tissues capable of increase and decay in every part; and (2) that the fat is lodged in cells or bags peculiar to itself, and not merely in the interstices of the tissues like the water of an anasarca, as was commonly supposed. The functions of the epidermis were described, and the sweat ducts were demonstrated in a set of pre- parations, which are still in the collection ; two of these are identified with the figures which accompany the paper. It also dealt with the growth of new blood-vessels into fibrinous exudations ; the treatment of abscesses and empyema, pointing out the necessity of early opera- tive interference in many cases; further remarks on emphysema; cattle plague; and tumours of the ovary and broad ligament. He had a very fair knowledge of the natural history of ovarian and allied tumours, and of the signs, symptoms, and complications to which they give rise. He did not, as has been stated, advocate ovariotomy. That, he says, had been done by others, but he decidedly goes 1 Medical Ohservations and Inquiries, vol. ii., p. 390, and vol. iv., p. 385. ^ "The history of an emphysema," Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. ii., p. 17.