134 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. radiating spicules of bone. Tiie growth is much more developed on the diaphysis than on the epiphysis. Both the epiphyses had been detached in preparation. The greatest thickness of the upper mass is 8 cm; of the lower, about 4 cm. Probably the skeleton of a periosteal sarcoma. For sarcoma in the lungs secondary to sarcoma in the limbs, see Series 18, Diseases of the Respiratory System, No. 38. 5.180a. Sarcoma (?) of the Skull. Hunterian. Cranium with the right side of the vault removed to show the interior. Nearly the whole of the left side of the vault, from the root of the nose to the borders of the occipital bone, and from the vertex almost to the meatus auditorius externus, has been replaced by an irregular growth of plates and spicules of bone, which formed the osseous framework of a large tumour. Probably it was sar- comatous growth, originating from the bone. The following account of the case and specimen is taken from Med. Ob.s. and Inq., Vol. V., p. 187, ct .srv/., "An Account of a Singular Caries of the Skull, by Mr. Jonathan Wathen." The specimen was readily identified with the illustration, though it is now imperfect, several parts of the tumour having been broken off and lost. "Aug. 25, 1772, William Halsey, of Barnet, Hertfordshire, aged twenty- eight, asked my advice concerning a disorder in his head. I found the teguments of the cranium on the left side exceedingly distended from the top of the head to his ear, and from thence forwards and downwards parallel to the ala nasi, in form of a pouch, entirely covering and closing up the left eye. The upper and most prominent part of the swelling appeared pale, white, and shining from the great distension of the skin ; the surrounding, variegated, pale, red, yellow, and the cutaneous veins enlarged and discoloured, as in the carcinoma. Notwithstanding the magnitude and frightful aspect of this tumor, he never had felt any pain or uneasiness from the first, except some little prickings and dartings when his head was bent forward, or inclined to either side. The substance of the tumor, as perceptible to the touch, was unequally solid, like that of an occult cancer, and its greatest thickness about three inches on the upper part of the os frontis, where it was most prominent. As he had always a good state of health, and never had received an injury of any kind on his head,