HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. Ix edition, vol. i., pt. i., p. 104, fig. 124. Professor Thomson sketched it for the seventh edition, 18G7, in which it appeared as fig. 603. There are a few other papers which must be mentioned on account of their connection with the museum and for their general interest. The wet preparation which figures in the well-known portrait of William Hunter by Sir Joshua Reynolds is of special beauty and interest. It is a dissection of a finely injected gravid uterus in the fifth month from a case of retroversion of that organ. This condition seems to have been observed, but certainly was not properly described or properly understood till Hunter's inves- tigation in 1754 of the very case from which this preparation was obtained. He described the condition and the symptoms and mode of treating it in his lectures thereafter, and prepared a plate of it for his atlas. Circumstances, however, bringing it to his knowledge that the condition was not yet so widely known as it deserved to be, and that lives had been lost which might have been saved had his observations been better known, he published a full account of them as a separate paper in vol. iv. of Medical Observations and Inquiries in 1770. The plate is No. XXVI. in the Atlas of Anatomy of the Gravid Uterus. After his death there also appeared three papers in vol. vi. of the same prints, two of which were frequently referred to by his contemporaries and reprinted in various works, and are still well worth reading. 1 The third was on I'hree cases of Mal-conformaiion in the Heart, but no preparations relating to those cases now remain in the museum. The malformation was stenosis of the pulmonary artery with defect of the interventricular septum, and the condition to which it gave rise was congenital cyanosis or morbus coeruleus, His description of the appearance of the victims of this condition has become classical, and his explanation of the cause of the cyanosis, which gives the disease its name, though not the whole truth, is part of it, and is correct so far as it goes. But, surely ^ Dr. Kingston Fox in his Oration before the Hunterian Society (printed in their Tranmctions) in 1897 has given a very interesting account of all three papers. The first is The mccesn/ul cure of a severe disorder of the stomach by milk taken in small quantities at once. The second is On the uncertainty of the signs of Murder in the case of Bastard Cliildren ; it lias been very highly praised by Sir Benjamin Brodie, vide p. Ixvii. Tlie reference to the third is given in the text.