INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 99 edges; the upper is much wider, and has its edges sloping gently inwards from the borders of the bone, as if it had been made artificially. Around both the surface of the new bone is rarefied, and partly covered by a thin layer of more porous bone of still later formation, probably the result of a new osteitis consequent on operative interference, which in those days almost inevitably meant fresh inoculation with septic organisms. Compare Osteitis the result of septic organisms introduced through Wounds, Nos. 5. 86, et seq. (/) Sequestra from Cases of Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. 5.74. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Sequestrum com- prising whole Circumference of Diaphysis of Femur. Restoration of Limb without Deformity or Loss of Power. Hunterian. A large sequestrum dried, of which the following account is taken from ifcd. Obs. and Inq., Vol. II., p. 299, et seq. ("A Remarkable Separation of part of the Thigh Bone," by Dr. Alex. Mackenzie of Mountmill. Read July 14, 1760, by William Hunter): "The bone herewith sent is seven inches and a half of the thigh bone of William Baxter, at this time miller in the mill of Unthank, in the parish of Duffus, in the shire of Elgin, who, when a boy of thirteen years old, got a blow on his thigh at school, of which he at first hardly complained; but in a few months he began to have pain in that thigh : it inflamed, swelled, and appeared to have matter in it. " The parents being poor, no surgeon was called, and the boy was allowed to linger for a great while. At length the matter made its way through the skin by a small opening on the interior part of the thigh, about three inches above the joint of the knee, and continued spueing out large quantities of thin sanies matter for eighteen or twenty months. " At length the hole in the skin enlarged, and the point of a bone began to appear very sharp and rough, which hurt him much when anything catched hold of it, as his breeches often did ; for it is to be observed that the boy, for the most part, continued walking to school with no other assistance than a stick in his hand. After two and a half years' distress, as he lay abed one morning, he felt the bone looser and farther without the skin than ordinary; upon which he gave it a strong pull, and brought away this very bone : a pretty large haemorrhage ensued, but the wound in the thigh healed in a very short time; and he has never since found the least inconvenience.