149 TUBERCULAR ARTHRITIS. 6.14. Tubercular Arthritis. Knee-joint. Changes in the Bones. Hunterian. Head of left tibia macerated, illustrating the above. The head of the bone is scooped out into a ragged cavity, partly surrounded by an irregular shell representing the original wall. This, where it has not been destroyed, is somewhat condensed. The excavation has passed the epiphysial line and communicated with the medullary cavity, which is now full of adipocere. There are also a couple of small, partly eburnated, sequestra in the outer condyle, nearly detached. (b) specimens illustrating the processes of natural cure. 6.15. Tubercular Arthritis. Ankylosis. Early Stage. Knee-joint. Hunterian. LL. 25. " A longitudinal section through the joint of the knee, to show incipient ankylosis, from white swelling probably." The internal condyles of the femur and tuberosity of the tibia are firmly ankylosed, the inner half of the cavity of the joint apparently com- pletely obliterated. Whether the union is osseous or only fibrous cannot be determined in the present state of the specimen. Between the outer condyle and tuberosity the central part of the joint is seen to be still unobliterated; but the cartilages are thinned, ulcerated in some parts, and in others covered with fine threads of fibrous tissue, as if they had been united, but were torn apart in the preparation of the specimen. The bones preserve their normal positions relative to one another. The surfaces of the semi-lunar fibro-cartilages are roughened, and in places covered with fibrous tissue. 6.16. Tubercular Arthritis. Knee-joint. Ankylosis in Semi flexed Position. Atrophy of the Bones. Hu7derian. Portions of the left femur, tibia and fibula, and the patella partly macerated and dried; some of the ligaments preserved. From a young subject. No history, but almost certainly tuber- cular—quite typical lesions. There is osseous ankylosis between comparatively small areas of the centres of both inner and outer condyles of femur and tuberosities of the tibia, and of the patella