78 HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 5.9. Distortion of the Femur due to Rickets. Hunterian. Left femur of a young subject macerated and dried, showing the above. There is a marked curve forwards; from side to side it is straight. Like the preceding the shaft presents an appearance of flattening due to filling up of the concavity of the curve. It is also rather porous, and there is some swelling and irregularity about the lower epiphysial line. 5.10. Distortion of the Femur due to Rickets; slight. Hunterian. Left femur of an adult macerated and dried, showing the above. There is curvature and lateral flattening in the upper and middle thirds, and slight elongation of the internal condyle. The bone is solid and heavy, and the concavity of the curve is filled up by increase of the ridge of the linea aspera as in the preceding. 5.11. Distortion of the Femur due to Rickets. Hunterian. Right femur of an adult macerated and dried, showing the above. There is slight curvature forwards and outwards in the upper and middle thirds. The bone is slightly flattened in front, producing a somewhat triangular shape of the shaft. Specimens 10 to 17 show the deformity long after the disease has been cured, and the curvatures of the shafts and thickenings of the ends of the bones have been more or less remedied by nature. Compare Tibiae, Nos. 5. 22 to 5. 27, and Fibulae, Nos. 5. 28 and 5. 29. 5.12. Distortion of the Femur due to Rickets. Hunterian. Right femur of an adult macerated and dried, showing the above. There is slight anterior convexity with lateral flattening of the shaft, and increase of the linea aspera, especially about the middle. 5.13. Distortion of the Femur due to Rickets. Hunterian. Right femur of an adult macerated and dried, showing the above. There is convexity outwards and forwards with flattening in a direction not quite antero-posterior, but a little oblique from before outwards, i.e. at right angles to the plane of the curve, which is slightly forwards as well as outwards.