153 TUBERCULAR ARTHRITIS. bone under the acetabulum, and there is now a series of inter- communicating cavities, of roughly globular shape, opening very freely into the acetabulum in and behind the fossa for the liga- mentum teres, and into the pelvis. The ascending ramus of the ischium and pubis is destroyed, and there is a small round cavity in the body of the pubis, probably another focus of the disease, which seems to have been invading the symphysis pubis. The disease was here probably primarily in the bone. 6.26. Tubercular Arthritis. Hip-joint. Excavation round Acetabulum. Intra-pelvic Bulging. Hunterian. Left innominate bone macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The acetabulum is extensively and irregularly enlarged, and deepened by caries of its sides and floor, and by a decided bulging of the internal dense shell of the innominate bone into the pelvis. The symphysis pubis seems also to have been the seat of disease, which has destroyed the articular surface and a considerable part of the body of the pubic bone. There is also a deep, smooth- floored hollow on the inside of the blade of the ilium, perhaps the seat of a similar disease long healed. 6.27. Tubercular (?) Arthritis with Septic Complication. Hip-joint. Hunterian. Right innominate bone macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The floor and edges, especially the posterior, of the aceta- bulum are markedly rarefied and eroded. The cavity as a whole is wider and shallower than normal. There has been some formation of periosteal new bone around the acetabulum and on the pelvic surface of the ilium, probably the result of septic osteitis consequent on the formation of sinuses and their infection with pyogenic organisms. (b) showing the natural cure of the disease. 6.28. Tubercular Arthritis. Hip-joint. Cure by Anky- losis. Hunterian. Parts of the innominate bone and the femur, from a grave, illustrating the above. The ilium and femur form one piece. A wedge has been cut out, from above and behind, well down into