INJURIES OF BONE. 47 The anterior border, instead of trending backwards from the glenoid facet, runs down to the lower angle almost in line with the articular surface. A split has also passed longitudinally from the transverse fracture down to the inferior angle. A straight edge applied to the lips of the glenoid facet cuts off about 1 -5 cm. (about half an inch) of the angle of the scapula, which must be displaced forwards 8 or 9 cm. 3.26. Normal Humerus. Hunierian. Right humerus m^acerated and dried, for comparison with the fractures. 3.27. Recently United Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus. Impacted. Intra-capsular. Hunierian. Right humerus macerated and dried, showing the above. The fracture has been just below the level of the tuberosities. The upper end of the shaft has been driven upwards, forwards, and inwards into the cancellated head, its firm edges crushing the spongy bone, and destroying. part of the articulating surface in front. The head is displaced considerably backwards and outwards relatively to the axis of the shaft, and rotated backwards. There has been no fracture of the tuberosities, which have gone with the head. The callus has a spongy texture, and the edges of the lower fragment are quite sharp, showing that the fracture is recent. 3.28. United Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus: False Joint. Hunierian. LL. 15«. Anterior section, longitudinal, of the head of the left humerus and scapula, most of the soft parts having been removed. Of the scapula there is only a small portion of the glenoid facet and the coracoid process. There has been a transverse fracture about the surgical neck, passing upwards and inwards to about the lower edge of the articular surface. The cavitj- of the shoulder-joint is partly filled up with fibrous tissue extending from the edges over the articular surfaces. The ends of the fragments have consolidated, the marrow cavity in the lower being closed with bone, and a false joint formed between them. From the position of the fracture it