ix PREFACE. ment" as follows : " The catalogue of the Anatomical Preparations in the Hunterian Museum, now published for the use of the medical students of the University and of scientific visitors, comprises all the Wet Preparations at present in the collection, and many of the Dry Preparations ; but the great majority of the latter not being exhibited, chiefly from want of room and of suitable cabinets, it has been deemed superfluous in the meantime to publish a description of them. " The catalogue has been printed from one of the two manuscript catalogues transmitted to the University by the trustees of Dr. Hunter. " These catalogues abound with errors of every kind, rendering the descriptions obscure and sometimes quite unintelligible. In rectifying these errors the collation of the manuscript catalogues was, for the most part, of little use, as the one seems to be a literal transcript of the other, preserving faithfully the most palpable mistakes. A careful comparison of the preparations themselves, with the descriptions given of them, was found to be the only means by which the true meaning could be ascertained. Wherever it was possible the exact words of the original have been retained. Most frequently an alteration in the structure of the sentences was sufficient to restore the sense, but in many instances a change in the words themselves was quite indispensable. In such cases, if any doubt remained as to the true meaning, a reference has been given to the MSS., or a note of interrogation added; or if any interpola- tion had been required, the interpolated words are included within brackets. "There are many preparations in the collection of which no descrip- tion is given in either of the manuscript catalogues. Of some of these a short description has been supplied. They are all marked as "not described," although there can be no doubt that a more careful examination will serve to identify many of them with preparations now supposed to be amissing. "As many of the casts included in the section RR. correspond exactly to plates in Dr. Hunter's Anatomy of the Gravid Uterus, and very imperfectly or not at all to any of the descriptions in the manuscript catalogues, it has been deemed advisable to substitute for the latter the descriptions given in the published work, indicat- ing at the same time the plates to which the casts appear to correspond. A similar reference has also been given to the only wet preparation delineated in the same work. It has been