li INTRODUCTION. in the last stage of the dissections. The figures show, in some cases, the whole preparation, in others only particular parts of them. Some preparations appear in several different views. In all, the seventeen represent twenty-eight figures. For the teaching of the anatomy, apart from microscopic anatomy, of the gravid uterus and membranes, and the general principles of placental structure and physiology, a better series of preparations could not be desired; and to the microscopic study of these organs they form the best possible introduction. The wonderful fulness and accuracy of William Hunter's descrip- tions of the anatomy of the gravid uterus and of the physiology of pregnancy is now admitted; but it was not always so. The story of how they were discredited, overwhelmed by the errors of other investigators, and how they were revived sixty years or so later, is a most interesting and curious chapter in the history of science. It is to be found in full detail in the powerful essays of the late Dr. Matthews Duncan, who constituted himself the guardian of William Hunter's scientific reputation. " Numerous authors," he wrote in 1858,i "in our own day, especially E. H. Weber, Sharpey, and Coste, have acquired a harvest of fame for re-discovering and proclaiming what we have shown that William Hunter demonstrated and described in 1775, and that not casually and carelessly, as if he had stumbled unexpectedly on truth, but carefully and with reiteration." "No sooner do we leave the guidance of William Hunter, than we fall into a long-continued tissue of errors, of blunders, and of misrepresentations. I am not aware of any instance of such retrogression from truth to untruth, from clearness and simplicity to doubts and confusion, in the history of any science continuously pursued by men of zeal and ability; and, in the present instance, the heart is touched with a feeling akin to pain, when we reflect that the leaders in this un- fortunate direction were the nearest relatives of William Hunter —viz., John, his brother and his pupil, and Matthew Baillie, his nephew; for both of whom, it is fortunate that, in other quarters, there is an ample reserve of well-won fame." In 1780 John Hunter communicated to the Royal Society a paper " on the Structure of the Placenta," in which he laid claim to certain discoveries which had for years been ascribed to his brother. The account which he gave of their discovery was, ^Edinburgh Med. Jour., Feb., 1858, reprinted in Researches in Obstetrics, p. 226.