89 INFLAMMATION OF BONE. outer side there has been some condensing osteitis of the cancellous tissue of the epiphysis. On the inside, part of the articular surface is destroyed; possibly, however, this is the result of the maceration. The seat of the disease in this specimen is a very common one for tubercle, but the manner of spreading up the shaft is more like the result of inflammation due to pyogenic microbes. 5.49. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Rarefaction. Periosteal New-formation of Bone. Hunkrian. Lower portion of a femur macerated and dried. A very irregular fragment of bone, but showing very well the formation of a complete new case of bone on the outside of the old shaft. The centre of the specimen is a large cavity with fairly smooth walls having very little cancellous tissue projecting from them ; probably an abscess cavity. This is open below where the epiphysial surface has been destroyed, and 6n the side where there has been some destruction of the shaft. In a cut surface at the edge of this latter opening, and on the trans- verse section of the bone above, there is shown very beautifully the old shaft with its outline quite distinct, but its dense walls rarefied to a shell of coarsely cancellated bone. On the outer surface of this is a layer of very similar new-formed porous bone. The new bone is of closer texture—the cancelli smaller, and the trabeculae thinner and less regular than in the old. It is roughly tuberculated on the outside. Compare No. 5. 43. The disease may have been tuber- cular ; but if so, septic organisms have probably also been present. 5.50. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis: Juxta-Epiphysial. Rarefaction and Necrosis. Hunterian. Lower half of femur, epiphysis absent, macerated and dried. The epiphysis has probably been detached by the disease. In the epiphysial surface of the end of the shaft there are several cavities containing small sequestra not quite detached. These are sclerosed. The cancellous tissue of the head as a whole seems also to have been in a condition of condensing osteitis. The sides of the head and the front of the shaft are covered by a layer of periosteal new bone. The back shows a large area, occupying the popliteal space and part of the outer side, most of which is smooth white old bone; the rest round about this is rarefied and eroded to a considerable degree. The smooth bone is a large superficial sequestrum which was in process of separation by absorption of the living bone around it.