HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 64 3.78. United Fracture of Tibia low down and Fibula higher up, i.e. by Indirect Violence. Hunterian. Right tibia, fibula and astragalus macerated and dried, showing the above. The tibia is fractured at the junction of the lower and middle thirds, the fibula just below the head. Very well united, though the upper fragment of the tibia projects somewhat on the inner side. 3.79. Very Old and Well-united Fracture of the Tibia low down and of the Fibula higher up, i.e. by Indirect Violence. Hunterian. Tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. Similar to the last, but the fracture of the tibia is rather lower down. Both bones are roughened by osteitis. 3.80. Old United Fracture of Tibia and Fibula, by Indirect Violence. Himtrrian. Tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. The position of the fractures is the same as in the two foregoing speci- mens. Both bones are covered with irregular projections due to osteitis of long standing. Both bones show considerable overlap- ping of the fragments; the lower ones are carried backwards and outwards, and the foot must have gone with them. On the tibia is an osseous elevation, which probably underlay an ulcer. The irritation and congestion connected with the ulcer may have been the cause of the general irregular development of new bone. 3.81. Ununited Fracture of Tibia with United Fracture of Fibula. Septic Osteitis. Hunterimi. The specimen consists of the greater part of the fibula and the lower fragment of the tibia, macerated and dried, and both in- complete. The fracture has probably been compound, with suppura- tion, resulting in amputation some weeks later, as the fibula has been sawn above. The fibula has mended well at both fractures, and the lower end of the tibia is ankylosed to it. The fragment of the tibia is sheathed with spongy new bone, and its upper edges are rounded and show no sign of having been united to its upper fragment; the medullary cavity is closed by bone.