HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 140 a portion of the wall and tissue inside it, the growth was recognized, though much degenerated, as being a carcinoma. The tumour was probably secondary to a carcinoma elsewhere, and the fracture was evidently due to the weakening of the bone by it. (MS. Notes. J.H.T., p. 5.) Not described in the old catalogue. 5.188. Secondary Epithelioma in the Femur. Hantenan. LL. 57. Left femur, all the soft parts down to the periosteum removed, showing a globular tumour about the size of a foetal head at term., enveloping the shaft just below the trochanters. It is enclosed within the periosteum, and is of fairly soft fleshy consistence. On the inside an incision has been made down to the bone, showing that a considerable portion of the shaft has been replaced by tumour, and that fracture has resulted from the weakening of the shaft. The end of the fragment is filled with tumour tissue and its shell thinned. Microscopically, though the tissue is much degenerated, there is recognizable a fibrous stroma with its meshes filled with cells, which in places are compressed into masses resembling the laminated capsides of an epithelioma of the skin. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 8.) Not described in the old catalogue. (d) Tumours of the Jaws. 5.189. Enormous Fungating- Sarcoma of the Superior Maxilla. The head and neck, apjjareiitly of a young subject, the back of the cranium and brain removed, injected red, showing the above. History unknown. In the front view almost the whole face is hidden behind a great fleshy tumour, most of the surface of which is ulcerated and of a patchy red and white colour, due to the injection. It seems to have arisen in the right maxillary region, doubtless within the antrum. The right cheek is bulged out laterally, and the right eye pushed forwards and upwards almost on to the supra-orbital ridge. The left eye is overhung and closed by the tumour, and pushed somewhat to the left. The nose and whole upper lip are infiltrated by the growth, and enormously expanded. The root of the former is involved in tumour up to the forehead. The point is flattened out and unrecog- nizable, but the nostrils and edges of the alae are recognizable low