HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. X judiciously suggested that references should likewise be given to the plates published by Dr. BaiUie, of which upwards of a hundred are taken from the preparations in the Hunterian collection, but this suggestion came too late to be acted upon on the present occasion. " It is only necessary to remark further that several sections of the catalogue were printed at an earlier period than the rest of it, and, with the exception of the mere correction of the press, under different superintendence. The important labour of determining the correspondence between the several preparations included in these sections, and the descriptions put into the hands of the printer not having been performed with a sufficient degree of care, some preparations have been wrong described and others not described at all, while some descriptions have been printed to which no preparation corresponds. These errors, which must prove embar- rassing to the student, were, unfortunately, not discovered till the press was too far advanced to admit of their being corrected. Of these, therefore, and of any similar errors which, notwithstanding the care with which they have been guarded against, may be found in the succeeding sections, the correction must be reserved for the next edition of the catalogue.—Glasgow College, 1st November, 1841." The volume is a faithful reproduction of the MSS., the descrip- tions of missing preparations being omitted. The corrections and alterations are not extensive, and the editing seems to have been chiefly concerned with spelling and punctuation : whoever did it, there was not much trouble taken ; there are very few additions; of the few references to Hunter's published works the only one to a wet preparation is wrong. The volume was sold at a shilling, and constituted a sort of perpetual admission ticket to the museum. Examination of the MSS. shows that they had been checked with the preparations twice—(1) probably when the trustees handed them over to Baillie and Cruikshank, who, under Hunter's will, had the use of the museum for thirty years before it came to Glasgow, and (2) when the printed catalogue was made: at the former date nearly all the preparations were present. Naturally the first step in the recataloguing and overhauling of the collection was to investigate thoroughly its condition, and find out what required to be done. This implied the determination of the presence or absence of all preparations described in the catalogue,