TUBERCULAR DISEASE OF THE VERTEBRAE. 177 6.91. Tubercular (?) Disease of the Vertebrae. Cure with Angular Curvature and Ankylosis. Eunterian. Last two dorsal and first two lumbar vertebrae macerated and dried, showing the above. There has been considerable destruction of the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar, evidently chiefly of the adjacent surfaces, as in No. 6.87, followed by collapse, cure of the disease, and complete fusion of the remains of the two bodies. There is also ankylosis betvreen the articular processes and arches of these two vertebrae. The other two are quite free. There is a decided curvature. 6.92. Deformity of the Aorta associated with Angular Curvature of the Spine. Hunterian. B. 18. " The aorta about the middle of the spine in a girl who had a very great incurvation of the spine from behind forwards. The aorta had adapted itself to that incurvation, and still shows the angle at which the spine was bent, which is very nearly a right angle." 6.93. Ankylosis of the Cervical Vertebrae and Occiput, probably after Tubercular Disease. Hunterian. Lower part of a skull, with the first three cervical vertebrae, macerated and dried, showing the above. The three vertebral bodies and the basi-occipital are completely fused into one piece, the former lines of articulation being quite untraceable in front. The laminae and articular processes are also ankylosed. The nature of the original disease is, of course, uncertain, but there is present a certain degree of distortion of the vertebrae in the way of collapse upon one another, which suggests that it was tubercular. (6) Changes in the Vertebrae due to Arthritis Deformans and Allied Conditions. 6. 94. Arthritis Deformans of Spine. Hunterian. The dorsal and lumbar vertebrae macerated, dried, and articulated, illustrating the above. The bodies of several of the dorsal vertebrae show osseous outgrowths from their edges bridging over the spaces formerly occupied by the intervertebral discs. On the right side of M