162 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. ments of the joint, showing that the disease has been sufficiently chronic to allow of movements. The condition of the exposed bone is one of osteoporosis, and contrasts well with the succeeding speci- men. Microscopic examination gave negative result, the tissue being too much degenerated. 6.52. Arthritis Deformans of the Knee-joint. Advanced. Hunterian. LL. 23. This specimen shows a much more advanced stage of the disease. The cartilage is destroyed over a large part of the articular surfaces of the femur and patella. The bare bone is scored in the direction of movement of the joint; and where the pressure is severest, it is condensed and polished like porcelain, a condition called eburnation. Parts of this eburnated surface are perforated by small round holes, some containing soft tissue, but most empty. From behind, the semi-lunar cartilages can be seen to exist; but from the front, they are concealed by a layer of soft yellow matter, apparently inspissated synovia, so that their shape cannot be made out. The osseous outgrowths round the edges of the articular surfaces are much larger than in No. 6. 50. The thin cartilaginous covering has been ulcer- ated off most of them. The articular surfaces retain their normal shape. This is wrongly described in the old catalogue as bones from a "white swelling." 6.53. Arthritis Deformans of the Knee-joint. Hunterian. LL. 19. Left patella dissected out, illustrating the above. There is a transverse line of fracture across it near one end, in consequence of which it has been described in the old catalogue as a fracture of the patella. It is really a fairly advanced stage of arthritis deformans, the eburnation, scoring in the line of movement, and osseous out- growths being quite typical. The fracture is a detachment of an extra-large plate of these and of the edge of the old bone, from which they were growing. 6.54. Foreign Bodies from the Knee-joint. Arthritis Deformans (?). Hunterian. LL. 25a. " The cartilage which covered one condyle of the femur, with the appearance of cicatrix in the middle; two loose smooth thick carti-