HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 38 2.22. The Symphysis Pubis. The lower part of the preceding. Hunterian. M. 7. 2.23. The Hip-joint. Hunterian. M. \\. Eight hip-joint of an adult opened in front and the capsule turned down, showing the relation of the head of the bone to the acetabulum and the extent and thickness of the capsular ligament. The capsular ligament is attached near the root of the neck, and the synovial membrane is seen reflected at this point. The whole head and almost the whole neck is therefore within the joint cavity. The neck is clothed with a very strong fibrous sheath. 2.24. The Hip-joint. Hunterian. M. 11a. Right hip-joint laid open behind and the head of the bone dis- located to show the interior of the acetabulum and the ligamentum teres. The capsule is much thinner than in front. 2.25. The Knee-joint. Hunterian. M. 116. Left knee injected, dissected, flexed, and opened in front to show the interior of the joint. The injection is very fine, and gives a good idea of the vascularity of the synovial membranes and the avascularity of the articular cartilages. The ligamentum mucosum is seen passing from the fatty pads below the ligamentum patellae to be attached between the condyles of the femur. 2.26. The Knee-joint. Hunterian. M. 11c. Dissection of the left knee-joint, opened and semiflexed, showing the semilunar fibro-cartilages and the crucial ligaments. The an- terior or external crucial ligament, which is tightened during extension, is seen rising from in front of the sjjine of the tibia joined with the anterior end of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage; it passes backwards, outwards, and upwards to be attached well back upon the inside of the external condyle of the femur. The posterior or internal, which is tightened during flexion, is also seen rising behind the spine of the tibia joined with the posterior end of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and running upwards, forwards, and inwards to be attached to the outer and forepart of the internal condyle of the femur. This is seen best behind. The superior tibia-fibular articulation is also laid open. Injected red.