xii HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. glazed case, and were not available for examination by visitors, and the calculi and concretions w^ere classified and displayed in two large show-cases, where they still remain. There were also in the same room, but kept apart from the Hunterian preparations, some hundreds of jar specimens, a number of which, chiefly monstrosities, belong to the present Keeper, about 100 came from the collection of the late Professor Allen Thomson, and the remainder from the collection of his predecessor, Professor Jeff"ray. There was no catalogue of these specimens, but there were notes on some of the jars. They were carefully examined, and the best of them incorporated with the Hunterian collection ; but they are carefully distinguished from it both on the jars and in the catalogue. He who undertakes the overhauling and recataloguing of an old anatomical collection, especially one of such historical interest as that of William Hunter, has a difficult and delicate task. As to the handling of specimens the diflSculty is less, for there is no reason why, with proper care, and taking advantage of the experience of other museums, any harm should come to the preparations by taking them out for examination and remounting them. But in the recataloguing, which in this case meant so great additions and so much rearrangement that this is rather a new catalogue than a second edition of the old one, there is more room for hesitation, more opportunity for error. On the one hand the words of the maker of the specimens are entitled to respect as such; and, on the other hand, it cannot be denied that descriptions written more than a hundred years ago may have become somewhat unintel- ligible, especially if they contain references to physiological or pathological theories which have been modified or abandoned. The specimens are not out of date ; the old descriptions may be. But such descriptions may possess a historical interest. Also the description written by the man who made the preparation is apt to be truer than that written by a stranger. As might be anticipated from the accuracy and scientific caution which characterize the published works of William Hunter, very few of the descriptions in the MSS.^ judged by the standard of our present knowledge, can be said to contain actual errors; but many are obscure, and many more are insufficient. In many parts the old catalogue is a mere list, and not descriptive. In a few cases the statements in the catalogue appear contradictory to the published opinions of William Hunter; this, as a rule, turns out to be the fault of the obscurity of the descriptions in the catalogue, which are then naturally passed over in favour of