126 HUNTSMAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. side by a node-like swelling of very porous bone. The edges of the swelling, especiall}^ the posterior, are somewhat raised, suggest ing that it was the base of an ulcer. The sponginess of its surface suggests that the ulcer was invading it. The surface of the whole shaft of the bone appears abnormally porous. Possibly syphilitic, but might be the result of an ulcer from other causes, such as a blow, 5.163. Syphilitic Node on a Bone deformed by Rickets. Invasion by an Ulcer. Hunteritm. Portion of a tibia macerated and dried. The bone is thick and heavy, and has a considerable bend forwards, doubtless the result of old rickets. The middle thii'd of the front and sides of the bone is occupied by a large prominent node; probably syphilitic. An oval patch with raised edges in the middle of this presents a rough rare- fied surface : it has evidently been the base of an ulcer which was besfinnino; to invade the bone. The rest of the node round about this is of densisli bone, evidently of considerable age. 5.164. Syphilitic Enlargement of the Tibia. Invasion by an Ulcer. Huntenan. A tibia, probably from a grave. The whole shaft is covered more or less with irregular periostitic outgrowths; dense and old. In addition there is a spindle-shaped enlargement of the middle of the bone; old and probably of syphilitic origin. On the front and inner side of this is an area bounded by slightly raised edges, measuring 11-5 cm, by 5 cm., the surface of which is rarefied and eroded in the manner characteristic of invasion by a chronic ulcer. The irregular periostitic outgrowths are probably the result of irrita- %ioTa. of the periosteum by the neighbouring ulcer. Comparative Anatomy Specimen. 5.165. Node on the Metatarsus of a Quadruped. Hunterian. Metatarsal bone of a quadruped macerated and dried, described in the former printed catalogue as " an excellent specimen of a node on the tibia of a quadruped." It is a circumscribed oval new-formation, about 5 by 4 cm. in diameter, and about 1 cm. high, placed on one side of the bone. It is composed of somewhat porous new-formed