PREFACE. xi their condition, their correspondence with the old descriptions and consideration of how far these were adequate, and whether or no the arrangement of the collection was satisfactory. To effect this two copies of the printed catalogue were taken, cut up, and the separated descriptions pasted on sheets. Each preparation was then examined individually, so far as could be done without opening the jars, and compared with its old description, and notes made on the sheets as found necessary ; these sheets were again checked at later stages of the work. These papers, with various general statements and tables which were prepared, are preserved in the museum, and form a full and accurate record of the condition of the collection in 1894. The author of the new catalogue also visited London to study what had been done by the Royal College of Surgeons with the very similar collection of John Hunter. He has here much pleasure in acknowledging the extreme courtesy and kindness of the conservator and other officials of the College, and recording his appreciation of the trouble they took to give him all information, not to speak of practical instruction, which seemed likely to be of use to him in his work. The museums of Guy's, St. Bartholomew's, and St. George's Hospitals, and of Cambridge University, were also visited. The collection consisted in 1894 of (1) 2607 jar preparations, of which 2250 are mounted in spirit, 254 in turpentine, and 103 dry; (2) 19 large plaster of Paris casts; (3) 410 dry bones illustrating injuries and diseases of bone; and (4) 348 calculi and concre- tions, all of which were supposed to be Hunterian. Only the jar preparations and the casts were catalogued individually. In regard to the diseased dry bones the MSS. contain the following:—"The collection of diseased bones is so extensive that it would require nearly as much time and labour to describe each bone particularly as has been bestowed on all the other parts of the catalogue taken together. We shall not therefore attempt it, but mention only the number of specimens and general circumstances, so as to be able to ascertain sufficiently to Glasgow this part of the Collection." Then follows an enumeration of the specimens interspersed with a number of general observations, few of which could be brought into relation with any particular specimen. All of this was reproduced without comment, additions, or omissions in the old printed catalogue. The calculi and concretions were dealt with in like manner. The jar preparations and casts were arranged on shelves in the order of the old catalogue; the dry bones were stored in a large