225 ANEURISM. dissolved and washed away the substance of the bone, making the greatest havock in the softest parts of the bone, as we see in stones of unequal texture that have long been washed by a dropping or a stream of water." As to the remarkable resisting powers of cartilage in such circumstances (compare No. 11.58), he says : " Of all animal substances gristle, perhaps, is the least affected by pressure in the living body. This seems probable from the known structure and uses of the joints, but was particu- larly evinced by the above case. The constant pressure of the sternum had destroyed the coats of the artery, the periosteum, the bone, the muscles, the tendons, the cellular membrane, the skin, in short, everything that was in its way, except the cartil- aginous parts of the ribs." 11.50. Large Aneurism of the Innominate Artery, Hunterian. KK. 7. "A portion of the arch of the aorta, with a very large aneur- ism in the right subclavian ; one half of the sac full of concentric lamellae of firm blood—the other empty as having contained either fluid or half-coagulated blood." The specimen consists of half of the aneurism ("the smaller most anterior half") and lam- inated coagulum. The aorta is above, the specimen being hung upside down. Between the old firm thrombus and the wall is a layer of soft recent blood-clot; the centre of the coagulum is also soft, though stratified: the wall of the sac seems to be lined by a thin firm lamina of white thrombus, on which the recent clot is deposited. 11.51. Aneurism of the Aorta. Atheroma with Calcareous Infiltration. Obliteration of the Left Carotid. Hunterian. B. 28a. "A portion of the trunk of the aorta internally much ossified and aneurismal. The trunk of the right carotid and subclavian is nearly an inch distant, at its origin, from that of the left carotid, whose origin is covered with the ossification internally, and the artery shrunk and obliterated. The ossification goes right round the artery, and is an inch broad, and apparently thick and strong." A very extreme degree of atheroma with calcareous infiltration. The aneurismal dilatation is not great. The specimen p