HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 96 {(1) Involvement of Joints and other Complications. 5.65. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis of Tibia and Fibula, of very old standing-. Process of Restora- tion in the Diaphysis. Destruction of the Knee and Ankle Joints. Hunterion. Right tibia and fibula of a young adult, partly macerated, cleaned and dried, showing the above. The shaft contains a number of cavities from most of which the sequestra have disappeared. In one there is a small sequestrum and the dried-up remains of the granula- tion tissue which lined it. The bone round them is thickened and dense, and sprouting into the cloacae, showing an advanced stage of repair. On the other hand, the disease in the upper epiphysis of the tibia seems to have been actively advancing ; it has excavated it in all directions, and almost totally destroyed it and its articular surfaces. There is some sclerosis of the cancellous tissue around the abscess cavities, showing that it is of fairly old standing too. At the lower end of the tibia and fibula there has also been disease of the epiphysis ; the articular surfaces are not destroyed, but that of the tibia has been driven up on the outer side in consequence of collapse of the supporting cancellous bone. 5.66. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Restoration after Necrosis and Separation of Sequestra. Yielding and Bending- of the New Shaft. Hunterian. A left tibia, probably from a grave, showing the above. It is greatly thickened, and contains numerous sequestrum cavities from which the sequestra have disappeared. The disease has been very extensive in the upper third, and here the new case has yielded and bent considerably outwards and forwards. The outer articular surface of the head is higher than the inner, having been supported by the fibula. 5. 67. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis. Restoration of Bone after Necrosis and Separation of Sequestra. Hunterian. LL. 41. Shaft of a long bone (tibia?) cleaned and in spirit, showing the above. The specimen consists of a thick rough shaft of new-formed bone perforated by cloacae and enclosing sequestra. The new-formed bone is old and fairly dense.