ANEURISM. 229 11.59. Erosion of the Vertebrae by Aneurism. Hunterian. Dry specimen of the upper dorsal vertebrae (2nd to 9th), illustrating the above; the erosion not so deep as in the preced- ing specimen. The bone presents a fairly dense surface. The cartilages have shrunk so much in drying that it is impossible to say what has been their condition ; the cancellous bone of the bodies of the vertebrae has suffered more than the solid articular plates. The erosion affects the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th dorsal vertebrae. 11.60. Aneurism of the Descending Aorta. Rupture. Extravasation into the Retro-peritoneal Tissue of the Abdomen. Hunterian. KK. 10. The anterior half of the sac of an aneurism of the aorta descendens, about the size of an orange, situated just above the diaphragm, which was depressed by the tumour, extending to within 1 cm. of the origin of the coeliac axis. The sac was round in shape, and partly filled with firm laminated coagulum. The posterior section is amissing; it pressed on and eroded the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th lumbar vertebrae, which lay bare in the cavity of the aneur- ism. Rupture occurred close to the bone at the lower border of the erosion, and the blood passed down under the arch of the diaphragm, and lay in a mass, four or five pounds in weight, on the right side of the vertebral column. It also passed between the layers of the mesentery and omentum, so that the viscera presented the appearance of an almost "universal mortification." Patient's symptoms consisted of praecordial oppression, slight cough, laborious respiration, and severe pain in the back. There was visible pulsation in the epigastrium, even the sternum rising and j falling synchronously with the heart; the legs and scrotum were oedematous. He died suddenly on raising himself in bed. The abdomen was found full of ascitic fluid. It is mentioned that the last rib on the right side was eroded, but at this point extravasation was prevented by firm adhesion between the sac and the periosteum. "Case, Mr. Bayford's, published." {Med. Ohs. and Inq., Vol. III., p. 14, with plate.) 11.61. Aneurism of the Innominate Artery. Hunterian. KK. 10a. From the same subject as the preceding specimen. It forms a globular sac about the size of a walnut, with a round mouth,