228 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. has split away from the tunica media, and the space between them is occupied by coagulum. The intima forms a delicate lining to the clot, and is torn in several places. There are numerous calcareous plates on the surface of the tunica media. There has been a rupture, with formation of a false aneurism outside, at the point indicated by the bristle. 11.57. Aneurism of the Descending Aorta. Hnnterian. KK. 33. "The greater part of the aorta, where there had been an aneurism near the coeliac artery; there is an opening behind with a small quantity of coagulum. The bag seems to have been cut away. (Case, I believe. Dr. Cooper's)." This reference could not be traced. The orifice of the aneurism measures about 2 cm. by 8 mm., is right at the back of the artery, and is decidedly above the level mentioned; it is in the thoracic aorta. Compare next specimen. 11.58. Erosion of the Vertebrae by Aneurism. Hunterian. KK. 34. "Four dorsal vertebrae, where the bodies have been absorbed from the pressure of an aneurism, and even the canal of the spinal marrow laid bare; the intervertebral substance is entire, being less liable to be affected by pressure. This, I believe, belongs to the aneurism of the last number." The vertebrae are between the fifth and tenth—probably sixth to ninth dorsal. As the sac of the last specimen is wanting, it is impossible to decide absolutely whether they correspond; but an aneurism, rising as the previous specimen does, from the back of the aorta would press on the vertebral column in just such a manner as to produce the condition shown here. The specimen illustrates very strikingly the power of re- sistance to pressure which cartilage and inter-articular fibro-car- tilages possess. The surface of the eroded bone is unusually porous. It would have been interesting to know the extent to which the spinal cord had been affected by the pressure of the aneurism upon it through the gap in the spinal canal. William Hunter in his paper on aneurisms in Med. Ohs. and Inq., Vol. I., p. 323, speaks of aneurism invading the vertebral canal, and causing even fatal compression of the spinal cord. Compare No. 11.49.