xvi HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. Group II., Injuries, requires little explanation. Operation wounds, the phenomena of repair of injuries, and the results of operation would as a rule be included in this group. Some of the complica- tions of injuries and operations, however, such as the results of septic infection {e.g. osteomyelitis following amputation), are preferably placed in Group IV. as results of inflammatorj^ disease; also, in Series 9, Injuries and Diseases of Limbs as a whole, a special group has been made apart from injuries to illustrate the anatomy of stumps and the results of excision of joints. Group III. is more difficult to define. Such conditions as atrophy from old age, disuse, or cutting off of nerve supply ; or as hyper- trophy from increased muscular exertion, such as the hypertrophy of the heart in renal disease, fall naturally into the group of " alterations due to local or general affections of nutrition." So also do the degenerations, such as amyloid disease, calcareous infiltration of arteries, osteomalakia, etc. But besides such conditions the group has had to be extended and made to serve as a convenient receptacle for specimens relating to diseases regarding which it must be said that the cause of them is obscure, and that they cannot in the present state of our knowledge be placed in either Group IV. or Grroup v.; e.g. hypertrophy of the prostate, rickets and atheroma. In defining Group IV., Changes due to Inflammatonj Disease, the difficulty is the difficulty of defining inflammatory disease. The solution of it is thus expressed by Mr. Cathcart:—^''The view of inflammation which underlies the classification here adopted, is that enunciated by Lister ^ in 1858, and emphasized afterwards by Cohn- heim, Burdon Sanderson, and others, namely, that inflammation is not so much a disease in itself as a consequence of interference with the vitality of the tissues. Causation of inflammation has therefore been chosen as the basis of primary subdivision, and the modes of interference with vitality, or causes of inflammation are thus the distinguishing features of the larger groups. Although it is difficult to conceive how much we may still have to learn on this subject, the knowledge acquired in recent years seems sufficient to justify the plan adopted, even should it require to be afterwards modified. As it stands this plan carries with it at least two distinct advantages. Museum specimens are by its means arranged in accordance with present clinical and pathological knowledge. This is obvious, but in addition the confusion which has so frequently arisen from a ' cross classifica- 1 Catalogue of the Museum of the R. C. S. (Ed.)., vol. i., preface, p. x. ^ Philosophical Transactions, 1858.