51 LYJURIES OF BONE. about two inches higher up. The middle fragment is not very badly displaced, but the lower is rotated so that its upper end has overlapped on the outside the lower end of the middle fragment, the broken surface of which has united with its inner side; the trochlear surface is consequently turned slightly inwards. 3.39. Recent Fracture of the Humerus of a " Child about the First Year." Hunterian. LL. 8. Longitudinal section of a humerus fractured about the middle, injected red, the soft parts removed down to the periosteum, dried and mounted in turpentine. The ends of the fragments are cj[uite sharp, and there is no trace of bony union. The medullary cavity is occupied by vascular tissue, which passes between the fragments on •one side. On the outside, splicing the fragments together, there is a thick mass of soft vase alar callus—provisional callus. The outer layer of this is more vascular than the inner layers, and looks rather like the old periosteum. Compare Xo. 3. 43. 3.40. Fracture at the Middle of the Radius united with Ankylosis to the Ulna. Hunterian. Left radius and ulna macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The radius has been fractured rather below the middle of the shaft obliquely and probably with some splintering, though the injury is so old that the actual lines of fracture are no longer traceable. The upper fragment lies in a plane in front of and to the outside of the lower, so that they are imited with a good deal of deformity. In addition, from rather above the seat of fracture for about 5 cm. downwards, the two bones are firmly united by a bridge of bone about 1 cm. thick. The interosseous space above and below is about 6 mm. wide. Below the seat of fracture is another small bridge of bone. The ulna appears not to have been fractured; its lower end is absent, but this is a post-mortem accident. The ankylosis is absolute. It has occurred with the forearm in a position midway between pronation and supination. The bone is covered with fine shallow cracks; it had probably been buried for some time. It is figured in Cheselden's " Osteographia," Plate XLV., fig 4, as "Ankylosis of the Cabit from a Fracture," with the ulna whole.