338 EUNTERIAN. ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. of exit. The lining of the sac is evidently continuous with the dura mater, and the cavity is an expansion of the subdural space. 22.22. Spina Bifida. Meningo-myelocele. Hunterian. EE. 56. " A spina bifida, very large, as one's fist nearly ; the outvi^ard part of the sac beginning to ulcerate : the bag would have burst and killed the patient soon." The tumour has a trilobate appear- ance, due to two grooves passing over it in a longitudinal direction. The two lateral lobes to right and left are covered by skin; the median lobe, about 3 cm. wide, is covered by soft membrane of the usual kind. The lateral regions have been opened, showing that the cord passes out of a small gap about the level of the first and second lumbar vertebrae, and runs out in the membranous area of the sac; the grooves correspond to the two lines of nerves, passing back across the sac to the invertebral foramina. They form a pair of series, with a considerable space between. At the upper part of the membranous area is the ulceration referred to above, which opens into a locule large enough to admit the tip of the little finger, which, as Professor Cleland has pointed out, " is continued down from the interior of the cord, forming an elongated syringocele" (see No. 22.15 for reference). This throws much light upon the nature of the little foramina seen in Nos. 22.17 to 22.21. 22.23. Spina Bifida. Meningo-myelocele. — History unknown. The trunk of a child injected red, the anterior parietes and viscera removed. A large thin-walled spina bifida in the lower lumbar region has been laid open by a crucial incision, and the bodies of the vertebrae removed in front, showing the relations of the nerves to the sac and lumbar and sacral plexuses. The spinal cord, marked by a bristle placed behind it, passes out into the sac, and runs up a short way on its wall, spreading out and giving off" the nerves, which can be traced across the cavity into the lumbar and sacral plexuses. These are well-formed, and arranged in the normal manner. The filum terminale (redder than the nerve cords) is seen passing across the sac, to disappear again in the lower edge of the mouth of the sac, beyond which it cannot be traced.