INTRODUCTION. XXXV London of John Hunter, a fortnight before the commencement of the autumn course. John Hunter was then twenty years old; he was quite untrained to any craft or profession, and therefore perhaps was all the better suited for an assistant. He attended the lectures and worked in the dissecting room under the eyes of his brother and of Mr. Symons, the assistant. " Mr. Symons, of Exeter, surgeon, attended my first course of lectures in 1746, and the following three courses, and likewise assisted me in the dissections." 1 In 1749 Mr. Symons left to start practice in Exeter, and John Hunter was promoted to his place. Already his brother had recognized his ability and value as an assistant. John took charge of obtaining and preparing the bodies, and doing the bulk of the dissections for the lectures, and the making of preparations. He also looked after the students in the dissecting room, and occasionally lectured when William happened to be engaged. William was thus able to reserve his energies for the lecturing, for his own particular researches, and for his practice, which was the financial backing of the school of anatomy and the museum. The expenses of these were borne solely by himself In 1758 he proposed to take John into partnership, giving him a share of the profits, and John was to deliver part of the course, but the proposal was never carried out, whether from John's aversion to lecturing, or from his health failing about that time, is uncertain. Together they worked at various researches. William's published works and lectures abound in references to the assistance he received from his brother, of whose industry and abilities he was evidently very proud. He records that John helped him in most of the dissections connected with his great work on the Gravid Uterus, and most of the many researches in which John at this time engaged were either undertaken under William's direction, or independently but at his suggestion. Two of these researches were published at length for him by William in his Medical Commentaries, and several others are referred to in the same work. This was John's first appearance as an author. A great deal of the first part of John Hunter's Natural History of the Human Teeth also dates from this period, as most of the preparations figured in the plates attached to that work, and which still exist, are in William's museum.^ Of ^Medical Commentaries, p. 8. ^ The Natural History of the Human Teeth, part 1, appeared first in 1771. It forms part of vol. ii. of Palmer's edition of John Hunter's Works, London, 8vo, 1835.