174 HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. about one-third worn away ; the ribs which have caused this absorp- tion are themselves considerably worn on their inner surfaces. The ribs on this side are not unduly curved at the angles, but droop down, and are rather straightened in the shafts. The ribs on the other side are crushed together, articulations having formed between them as in the preceding. Their curves are reduced, and even reversed in parts. The pelvis is well formed. 6.83. Severe Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Ankylosis of Vertebrae and Ribs. Hunterian. Six dorsal vertebrae with a couple of ribs, probably a graveyard fragment, from a case of lateral curvature similar to the preceding. The convexity of the curve is to the left. The six vertebrae are ankylosed into one piece chiefly by fusion of the articular processes and laminae. The spinous processes remain free, and the bodies are only united here and there by small outgrowths from the edges. The two ribs lie close together, and are stronglj' ankylosed to the sides of the bodies, to the transverse processes, and to one another opposite the transverse processes, and through an articulation which had formed between them a little outside that point. III. Inflammatory Diseases of the Spine. (a) Txihercular Disease of the Vertebrae. 6.84. Tubercular Disease of the Vertebrae. Angular Curvature. Hunterian. EE. 57. " Portion of the Spine from Lowe's Child, where caustics had been applied ineffectually for incurvation ; the ulceration of the body of the vertebra had gone in as far as the spinal marrow itself." The bodies of three vertebrae have been partially, and of two others between them totally, destroyed by the tubercular disease. A moderate amount of collapse and angular curvature, " Pott's Curva- ture," has resulted. 6.85. Tubercular Disease of the Cervical Vertebrae. Re- tropharyngeal Abscess. Collapse. Paraplegia. Hunterian. EE. 45. " A section through an incurvated portion of spine, about the uppermost vertebrae of the neck, from a child twelve years old;