HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 50 3.35. United Fracture at the Level of the Insertion of the Deltoid. Hunterian. LL. 38. Posterior section of the left humerus, injected red, decalcified, dried, and mounted in turpentine, showing the process of repair at a late period. There has been slight abduction of the upper fragment, displacing its lower end about 1 cm. to the outside of the lower fragment. The dense bony walls of the shaft have been restored and the projections rounded off' with rather solid cancellous bone. There are denser strata on the outside and where the remains of the old solid walls of the bone lay. The medullary cavity is occupied for about 4 cm. in the neighbourhood of the fracture by vascular open cancellous bone; it is nearly restored in the centre. The process of union has advanced so far that the exact line of fracture is not visible, but the solid ends of the fragments can be traced for a certain distance into the cancellous callus. It appears to be the half of No. 769 in the Pathological Series of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, England. 3.36. United Fracture of the Lower Part of the Shaft. Hunterian. Right humerus macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The fracture has passed from above and outside obliquely downwards and inwards, and the lower fragment is behind and outside of the upper, overlapping it considerably; the bone is slightly bent back- wards, and considerably thickened and shortened. 3.37. United Fracture of the Humerus in the Lower Third. Hunterian. Right humerus macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The fracture has passed nearly transversely. The lower fragment has been drawn up considerably on the outside of the upper, and has united with it at an open angle, so as to raise the internal condyle considerably above the external. 3.38. United Fracture in the Lower Third of the Humerus. Hunterian. Right humerus macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The bone has been fractured about two inches above the elbow, and also