THE NASAL PASSAGES. 281 binate bones untouched, showing the shape and relations of the lower, middle, and superior meatus, and the Eustachian tube, sphenoidal and froiatal sinuses. A bristle is placed in the nasal duct, but on the inside it is hidden by the inferior turbinate bone. 17.6. The Nasal Fossae, Orbit, and Antrum. Hunterian. GG. 5. A similar section in a young subject, including rather more of the orbit and superior maxilla. The cavity of the lachrymal sac is seen with a bristle passed down into the nasal duct, and appearing in the inferior meatus. There are also bristles in the Eustachian tube, and passed from the superior meatus into the orifice of the ethmoid cells below the superior turbinate bone. Finely injected red. 17.7. The Nasal Septum and Naso-pharyngeal Space. Hunterian. GG. 6. The rest of the same face, showing the nasal septum beautifully injected red, and the posterior orifice of the left nostril. On the outside is seen the follicle of the wisdom tooth, with the crown of the tooth in it, close to the antrum. Only the first molar is through the gum. Bristles are passed through the nasal duct and Eustachian tube. The antrum is opened externally. 17.8. The Nasal Fossae and Adjacent Structures. Hunterian. GG. 42. A horizontal section just above the floor of the nose, showing the nasal fossae and naso-pharynx from below. The lateral masses of the face also have been cut away along the line of the molar teeth, laying open the antra and orbits. The Eustachian tubes, nasal ducts, and orifices of the antra are marked with bristles. The specimen was intended to show " a follicular surface at the attachment of the pharynx to the basis of the skull, in the middle space between the mouths of the Eustachian tubes and directly behind the upper end of the vomer. Dr. Hunter calls this the third tonsil." Compare No. 17.2. In addition it shows relations of the nose and pharynx to the base of the skull, the length of the roots of the canine teeth, the nasal septum, and the thickness