INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 105 new-formation of porous bone, and the effects of osteomyelitis in the stage of rarefaction extending a long way up the shaft. It is partly divided in longitudinal section to show the rarefaction of the old dense wall and the separation of a sequestrum of very much rarefied cancellous tissue. 5.90. Osteomyelitis after Compound Fracture. Sclerosis of Bone. Hunterian. A fragment of a long bone macerated and dried, showing the above. The line of fracture has been very oblique. The medullary cavity of the fragment is obliterated by dense bone. On the oblique surface lies a smaller piece of bone, firmly attached though consider- ably undermined all round, as if it were a sequestrum undergoing separation. It is dense bone, as if a condensing osteitis had preceded necrosis. There are two holes drilled in it. Compare 5. 69 and 5.70. 5.91. Septic Osteomyelitis after Compound Fracture. Ex- tensive Necrosis. Hunterian. Tibia and lower part of fibula macerated and dried. They have been fractured a little below the middle, probably by direct violence, with some comminution. The wound has gone septic, and large portions of bone above and below have necrosed, and were in process of separation by rarefying osteitis. The grooves of separation of the sequestra are well marked. There is but little trace of inflammation except in their immediate vicinity. There is a little periosteal new-formation on the living side of the grooves of separation. Upper part of the fibula amissing. 5.92. Septic Osteomyelitis after Compound Fracture. Ne- crosis. Amputation, Hunterian. Lower two-thirds of a femur macerated and dried. From a young subject; the epiphysis absent. About the middle of the specimen there is a transverse fracture with slight comminution. The ends above and below have undergone necrosis, and the grooves of separation are well marked about 2 cm. on either side of the break. There is some periosteal new-formation of bone both above and below, but very little extension of the destructive processes