INJURIES OF BONE. 55 a ragged gap overhung on the inner side by a ridge of firm bone. This ridge is the upper edge of a nearly flat surface, which looks upwards, backwards, and inwards. This surface, which measures 6-5 cm. vertically by 5'5 cm. horizontally, comprises the inner side of the great and the little trochanters, and from its density and polished appearance has formed one surface of an articulation. Com- pare the next specimen, in which the fracture has passed through much the same part of the femur. 3.50. United Complex Fracture of the Upper Third of the Femur. Splitting of the Great Trochanter. Hunterian. Right femur macerated and dried, illustrating the above. An oblique fracture with splitting of the upper fragment. There have thus been three fragments: one including the head, neck, and anterior half of the great trochanter with about 8 cm. of the front of the shaft; a second including the rest of the great and the lesser trochanter and a splinter of shaft, in all about 15 cm. long; the third, the lowest, meets the first, which is considerably tilted forwards, at a very open angle, which is subtended bj^ the second fragment, the space between the three being filled up by new bone. The split extends to the top of the great trochanter, but the fragments have been prevented from separating above, presumably by the strong fibrous tissue over them. There has been considerable eversion of the lower end of the bone. 3.51, United Fracture of the Femur at the Junction of the Upper and Middle Thirds. Inversion of the Limb. Hunterian. Right femur macerated and dried, showing the above. A frac- ture oblique from above downwards, outwards, and backwards, with the upper fragment everted and lying in front and outside of the lower, united to it at a very open angle. The inversion of the lower fragment is very marked, and must have involved a very serious deformity of the limb. Such a deformity might be produced by the lower part of the limb being kept with the foot vertical, while the upper fragment has been rotated outwards and abducted by the action of the obturator externus, quadratus femoris, gluteus maximus, and psoas and iliacus muscles.