INTRODUCTION. XXXI success in practice can hardly have heeii very great, for he told one of his pupils that the fees he received at the commencement of the course (some seventy guineas) " was a larger sura than he had ever been master of before"; but success was beginning, the tide had turned in his favour, and he took it at the ilood. So far his inclinations and opportunities seem to have led him in the direction of becoming a surgeon, but soon after this a change appears. He was admitted a member of the Corporation of Surgeons in 1747. In 1748 he was appointed one of the " Surgeons-accoucheur" to the Middlesex Hospital,! and in 1749 to the British Lying-in Hospital, with the latter of which he was connected for many years. These appointments greatly assisted in bringing him forward in his profession, and also directed him rather towards midwifery and what is noAV called gynaecology, " in which he was recommended by several of the most eminent surgeons of that time, who respected his anatomical talents and wished to encourage him." Probably, too, he had picked up some of Douglas's midwifery practice. Besides the retirement of several of the leading obstetricians within the next few years opened up to him great opportunities in this line, and gave him enough to do without trying to cultivate surgery, in which there were many able men, such as Percival Pott, Caesar Hawkins, Sharpe, and Bromfield. According to Simmons, " he had always an aversion to surgery," and Matthew Baillie says "he very much disliked all operations which might give pain."^ Yet his earlier papers show a strong surgical bent, and his lectures and the preparations in the collection show that he did a certain amount of gynaecological operating. In 1750 he received the degree of Doctor of Medicine from Glasgow University. In 1751 he was admitted to the membership of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow. The entry in the minute book is as follows: "4th March, 1751, the Faculty in full form ordain a diploma to be made out in favours of Doctor Hunter of London as an honorary member, and the same to be transmitted ^The authority for this statement is Simmons, op. cit., p, 14. There is no mention of it in Wilson's History of the Middlesex Hospital, but that institu- tion is pleased to regard him as a former member of its staflf. "If this were so—and at the most he could not have held office for more than a few months —it would be gratifying to think that in his case, as in that of many others in after years, the Middlesex Hospital supplied the first step on the ladder of fame." The Middlesex Hospital Journal, vol. ii., No. 8, p. 90, 1898. 2 Op. cit., p. 75.