GARCINOMATA IN BONE. 139 seminated throughout the body, giving rise to secondary tumoars in the bone marrow. Part of the occipital bone has been removed to show the spicules of bone growing inwards. Many of the external spicules have been rubbed off since the publication of Matthew Baillie's work in 1799. . . 5.185. Secondary Carcinoma (?) in the Ilium. Hmterian. Left ilium macerated and dried, illustrating the above. A growth, probably carcinomatous, has eaten out a circular hole in the blade of the ilium. It has destroyed the cancellous tissue and the dense shell towards the iliac fossa. The external shell is also thinned, rarefied, and eaten away in places. There has been some periosteal new-formation on the bone around and over the surfaces of the growth. 5.186. Secondary Carcinoma of Rib. Hunterian. EB. 430. A portion of two ribs dissected, and one of them which contains the tumour, divided longitudinally. For a length of about 9 cm. the osseous shaft of the rib has been entirely destroyed, and its place taken by a fusiform tumour. This is smooth externally, being enclosed in periosteum. In the cut surface it consists of a network of fibrous tissue with fairly wide spaces. There is no bone in the tumour, though the line of the rib is faintly indicated in the arrangement of the fibrous stroma. Microscopically, it is a carci- noma, consisting of wide fibrous meshes lined with epithelium set in large circles like ducts. Probably secondary to a carcinoma of stomach or bowel. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 6.) Not described in the old catalogue. 5.187. Secondary Carcinoma of Tibia. Fracture. Hunterian. LL. 56. Tibia and fibula injected red, and the soft parts removed down to the periosteum. There has been fracture of both bones (tibia in lower, fibula in the upper third, as if by indirect violence), which had long been healed. In the upper third of the tibia there is a con- siderable sweUing within the periosteum, which is a cyst with rather thick fleshy and highly vascular walls ; the cavity seems to run round the shaft of the bone, which is fractured. The ends of the fragments are rarefied and eroded. On microscopic examination of