INTRODUCTION. Ixxi ^ Thomson's Cullen, vol. i., p. 150. His disappointment at this treatment of his disinterested offer was very great. He thought of leaving London, and even wrote to Cullen proposing that they should start a new and independent school of medicine in Glasgow. " You have been ill-used at Edinburgh as I have been at London. Could you make a sacrifice of the few more guineas you would receive by practice at Edin- burgh, and join with me to raise a school of physic upon a noble plan at Glasgow ? I would propose to give all my museum and library, and build a theatre at my own expense; and I should ask nothing for teaching but the credit of doing it with repu- tation. You and Black and I, with those we could choose, I think could not fail of making our neighbours stare." ^ What reception Cullen gave the proposal is not known; the plan went no further: perhaps the great burst of research in 1764-65 helped Hunter to forget his disappointment. Besides that, London, he knew, was "the only place for such a school, because a sufficient number of dead bodies cannot be procured in any other part of Great Britain " ; and in London his scheme was eventually carried out by his own energy and perseverance, and with his own capital. In 1770 he moved into the house in Great Windmill Street which he built for the purpose, with dissecting-room, lecture theatre, and a fine museum hall. There he lived, conducting his enormous practice, lecturing, working in his dissecting-room, and building up his museum on an extended plan—embracing objects of art, archaeology, natural history, geology, mineralogy—till his death. His museum became more than a museum for a medical school; he made it a University museum. On the 20th of March, 1783, after having been confined to bed for some days through illness, in spite of the protestations of his friends, he rose and attempted to give the introductory lecture to the operative surgery part of his course. Before the end of the lecture he fainted and was carried to bed, from which he never rose again. He died on the 30th of March, in his 65th year. After his death it was found that, by a will dated July 27th, 1781, he had left his museum and £8000 to Glasgow University, but with the condition attached that it was to remain in London for the use of his partner Cruikshank and his nephew Matthew Baillie for thirty years.