319 THE BRAIN. from the third ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius into the fourth ventricle, terminating at the point of the calamus scriptorius. A transverse bristle marks the position of the valve of Vieussens, and a third passes under the posterior commissure into the third ventricle. Below, the pons has been cut away, and the surface shows strands of fibres passing up into the crura to go on to the brain. Between the crura lie the roots of the third pair of nerves, and further forward {i.e. above, as the specimen hangs) the corpora albicantia, with the orifice of the infundibulum between them and the chiasma or commissure of the optic nerve in front (above). The pituitary body has been cut off" from the lower end of the infundibulum. 21.36. The Medulla Oblongata and Mesencephalon. Hunterian. EE. '2'2a. A dissection of the basal and middle region of the brain to show their general relations; the lower surface showing the medulla, pons, and crura cerebri et cerebelli; the upper, the central parts of the cerebellum covering the fourth ventricle, and the corpora quadrigemina and crura cerebri. 21.37. The Whole Brain and Meninges. Hunterian. E. 3. " The whole of the adult human brain. The arteries are injected red, and the blood in the veins is fixed by coagulation in a strong- solution of alum and water." It is hung by the dura mater of the right hemisphere and the falx cerebri, the rest of the dura being removed to show the pia mater and the convolutions of the cortex of the cerebrum. On the under surface are seen the medulla oblongata, pons Varolii, cerebellum, the vertebral arteries uniting into the basilar, the carotid arteries and the roots of the nerves, and the Sylvian fissure separating the temporo-sphenoidal lobe from the frontal and parietal lobes. Compare Model of Brain, No. 51.21. 21.38. The Cerebral Convolutions and Sulci. Hunterian. E. 10. A portion of the upper surface of the brain, the pia mater removed, and the convolutions a little separated to show the depth of the sulci.