INTRODUCTION. xxvii Hunter to take up the surgical part of the work, while Cullen devoted himself to the medical part. But he very early abandoned that idea. For a few weeks he resided with Smellie, who had reached London about two years earlier, and then Dr. James Douglas took him into his family as tutor to his son, and " as an assistant in his dissection room and in the surgery." ^ Douglas became much attached to his clever young assistant, and his kind offers of help appear to have been the principal influence that turned Hunter from his earlier plans, and led him to seek a career in London. The change did not interfere with his friendship with Cullen, who, it seems probable, already had it in his own mind to seek a wider sphere for his energies in Glasgow, into which he moved in 1744. The correspondence published in Thomson's Life of Cullen shows how intimate this life-long friendship was, and the high regard they had for one another.^ James Douglas was one of the leading practitioners of mid- wifery in London, and one of the most accomplished anatomists of the day. He is alluded to in Freind's History of Physich as " the first who has given us any true idea of the peritoneum." His name is always associated with it as the first describer of "Douglas's pouch." When Hunter came to him he was engaged upon the preparation of an atlas of the anatomy of the bones, the copper plates for which, to the number of 68, were finished before his death. The work was never published; the plates and a volume of proofs are preserved in the Hunterian Museum. It would have been a valuable addition to the literature of osteology. While with Douglas, Hunter was also studying surgery in St. ' The intimacy of Hunter's relations witli Douglas and his family is shown in the letters published in Mr. Stephen Paget's recent Life of John Hunter (Masters of Medicine Series : London, 1897). Latterly he seems to have acted as a sort of guardian to the family. The last survivor of them died in 1755 ; vide Simmons, op. cit., p. 8. Douglas's papers, drawings, and plates passed into Hunter's possession, and are preserved in the Hunterian Museum. ^ Life of Cullen, by John Thomson, M.D., Edinburgh and London, 18.S2 and 1859, 2 vols., Svo. Cullen may be regarded as the real founder of the Glasgow School of Medicine. The University of Glasgow had the power of conferring medical degrees long before Cullen's time, but the existence of the medical school as a teaching institution was little more than nominal till his appointment to the chair of medicine in 1747. Vide Memorials of the Facidty of Physicians and Surcjeons of Glasgoiv, by Alex. Duncan, B.A., LL.D., Librarian to the Faculty, 1896 ; and the University of Glasgow, Old and New, by Professor Stewart, D.D., 1891.