SARCOMATA OF BONE. 135 no cause could be assigned for it. Having requested the favour of Dr. Hunter's inspection, his opinion was that the disorder was within the skull, as well as without, and that the bone was exceedingly diseased; but he thought the most singular circumstance was, that he had no pain in his head. The first intimation he had of it was about two years ago, when he perceived a swelling on the posterior part of the left parietal bone, about the size of a pigeon's egg ; for as it gave him no uneasiness, he had hardly taken notice of it before, whereupon asking advice, and some topical applications having been prescribed without eifect, and having no great inconvenience, he neglected it for a year and a half, when another swelling began upon the superior jiart of the left side of the os frontis ; he was then admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he remained a fortnight ; but as the real state of the case was obscure, and no indication presented itself, he returned into the country, visiting the hospital occasionally for three months, during which time the swell- ings increased very fast, and approached very near to each other, but as yet were separated by a depression of the skin. Some were for making an incision to the bone, but the majority being against it, he was discharged." The surgeons at St. George's Hospital also refused to operate. In three weeks the swellings had become blended, and shortly afterwards, when Mr. Wathen was examining him, "he fell into a fit with convulsions, which soon went off." "As there was no doubt but that the skull was exceedingly diseased, nor any hopes of relief, much less of a cure, to be obtained without a separation of the morbid part, I resolved to lay the supposed caries bare, without which an exfoliation could not be expected." This was attempted by means of " common caustic " and arsenical bougies for fear of haemor- rliage. The result was suppuration and the separation of large sloughs of soft tissues filled with bony spicules. After some weeks of this treatment, " he now frequently complained of violent pain in the skull, and had several little attacks of fever, the pulse was re- markably small and quick, and a kind of stupor and delirium hung upon him for some days. . . . Once he had a fit whilst he was dressing, and was somewhat convulsed, but it soon went off, and he mended so much in a few days that he said he was as well as ever." He lived several months longer, and died, apparently of exhaustion, on March 9, 1773. In the left hemisphere of the brain were found two abscesses corresponding to the two largest slough holes, " through both of which the dura mater had protruded itself." The dura mater was attached to the bones " by means of a fungus resembling that