LATERAL CUIIVATURE OF THE SPINE. 173 by masses of dense bone bridging over the intervertebral spaces for a width of 2-5 to 3 cm. on the same side. Below the twelfth dorsal vertebra the column sweeps round into another and more open curve in the opposite direction, i.e. with its convexity directed towards the left. The rotation of the vertebrae towards the convexity is well marked, especially in the lower curve. Tlie arthritic outgrowths round some of the articulations of the articular processes are very large; in one or two there is actual ankylosis. 6.81. Severe Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Hunterian. A vertebral column from the third cervical to the fourth lumbar vertebrae, with the upper nine ribs of the right and the sixth to the twelfth ribs of the left side, partially macerated and cleaned and dried. It is partly held together by the remains of the ligaments, partly articulated. There is a very severe degree of curvature of the column from the second dorsal to the second lumbar with the convexity towards the right, and, in addition, a considerable stoop forwards. The vertical depth of the chest has been very greatly decreased. The ribs on the right are not markedly approximated to one another, but they droop down more than in the normal con- dition, and are sharply curved at the angles ; the front of the bodies at the convexity of the spine comes within about 3 cm. of them about opposite the middle of the shafts. On the left, in the hollow of the curve, the ribs are so crushed down on one another that articulations have been developed between them a very little outside the transverse processes : the angles are smoothed out, the whole ribs have abnormally little curve, and the ends of them droop downwards to a very marked degree, just as on the right side. The rotation of the vertebrae is very striking. 6.82. Severe Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Hunterian. Vertebral column, pelvis, and a number of the ribs of a young woman, pretty completely macerated, cleaned, and dried. The ligaments having been too much destroyed, it has rather gone to to pieces. The epiphyses of the iliac crests are, to a considerable extent, cartilaginous. There is a curvature extending from the first dorsal to the third lumbar with the convexity to the right, and some stooping forwards ; it is very similar to the preceding, but worse. The vertebral bodies at the convexity of the curve—eighth, ninth, and tenth dorsal—have been in contact with the ribs, and have been