Ill TUBERCULOSIS OF BONE. (6) Repair in Bones after Septic Wounds. 5.112. Healing with Ankylosis after a Fracture into the Ankle-joint complicated by Septic Arthritis and Osteomyelitis. Hunterian. Tibia and fibula with part of the skeleton of the foot, in which there are recognizable portions of the astragalus, os calcis, and the smaller bones down to the bases of the metatarsals, all fused together into an irregular mass of spongy bone. There is no history; but there has evidently been a fracture, probably a compound "Pott's," opening the ankle-joint. The only break now recognizable is that of the fibula, situated 3 or 4 cm. above its lower end. The foot has been carried outwards to a marked degree as in that fracture. While still in this position inflammation has set in, resulting in the destruction of the ankle and adjacent tarsal joints and ankylosis of the various bones. There are traces of periosteal new-formation for a short distance up the shafts of the tibia and fibula. The specimen has the appearance of being from a grave; the cancellous bone composing the greater part of the os calcis and malleoli of the tibia and fibula has rotted away. (4) Tuberculosis of Bone. Most of the specimens in the collection illustrating the results of disease of bone due to the tubercle bacillus by itself or in association with pus-forming organisms will be found in Series 6, Diseases of the Joints, under the headings Tubercular Disease of the Bones and Joints, and Tubercular Disease of the Spine. 5.113. Rarefying Osteitis. Caries. Tubercular (?) and Septic. Hunterian. Lower portion of a tibia macerated and dried, illustrating the above. The epiphysis absent. The cancellous lower end of the bone has been hollowed out as if by an abscess, which has destroyed the epiphysial surface almost completely. It opens above by a rounded orifice on the front of the bone. The walls all around and for some distance up the shaft are greatly rarefied. Externally, they are covered with a crust of spongy periosteal new bone, which is especially abundant around the cloaca. In the dry bone it is im-