HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 236 demonstration of the whole lymphatic system, or even of William' Hunter's knowledge of it, the series is, of course, very far from being complete; still it should be of very great value to students by calling their attention to a most important system, of which, from special methods (and these, too, little practised now) being required for its demonstration, they as a rule see very little, and which in con- sequence they are apt to neglect and regard as unimportant. The historical interest of the specimens is also very great, on account of the part they played in the investigations of the lymphatic system bj' William Hunter and his famous assistants, John Hunter, Hewson, and Cruikshanks, whose work on this system is discussed in the historical introduction to the catalogue. I. Specimens illustrating the Structure of Lymphatic Vessels and Glands in general. 12.1. A Large Lymphatic Vessel. Hunterian. D. 43. A portion of the thoracic duct, " from the adult human subject," injected with mercury and mounted in turpentine. The upper third of the specimen is black from having lain only partly immersed in the mounting fluid. Below this point there is a dilatation of the vessel, indicating the presence of a valve. The sinuses into which these vessels, like the veins, are dilated above the valves, and the lines of attachment of the valves, can be clearly made out. A number of little tubercles project from the vessel, which, " examined with a glass, are evidently formed by valves where a vessel had been entering in." These valves prevent the escape of the mercury, as, in life, they prevented the regurgitation of lymph. 12.2. Lymphatic Vessels showing Valves. Hunterian. D. 37. Portions of two lymphatic vessels injected with mercury and mounted in turpentine on a black card. "Their most depending extremities show two pairs of valves preventing the quicksilver from escaping." Looking into the ends of the vessels, the two pouches of the valve are clearly seen, distended with mercury, in shape somewhat like a cloven hoof. They are of the type of semi-lunar valves, as in the veins; compare Nos. 12.9 and 12.10. 12.3. Lymphatic Vessel Hunterian. D. 30. Not described in the old catalogue. It has been injected with mercury, but has broken and the mercury has fallen out. The