280 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. Shows the shape and relations of the nasal septum. The bony portion, as usual, is deflected—in this case to the left; the mucous membrane appears highly vascular. Behind the septum, just below the division (cartilaginous still) of the basi-sphenoid from the basilar process of the occipital bone, is seen a section of the post-nasal adenoid tissue, called, by Dr. Hunter, the "third tonsil." It is highly vascular. See also Nos. 17.8 and 9 and 21.50. 17.3. The Nasal Septum. Hunterian. GG. 3a. A similar specimen, but not extending so far back; finely injected red, and in turpentine. The septum is remarkably straight. 17.4. The Nasal Fossae and their Connections. Hunterian. GG. 2. An antero-posterior vertical section of the head, comprising parts of the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, occipital, and superior maxillary bones; exhibiting, on the one side, the right nasal fossa, and, on the other, the antrum of Highmore; also showing their relations to the orbit, cavity of the cranium, and mouth. Part of the inferior turbinate bone has been dissected away to show the nasal duct marked by a cannula passed down from the orbit. The middle turbinate has also been partly removed to show a bristle passed from the middle meatus into the antrum ; from the outside it will be noticed how high this opening is placed. The frontal sinus and ethmoid cells are also opened. The red injection gives an idea of the vascularity of the mucous membrane (Schneiderian membrane) of the nose. About 7 mm. behind the inferior turbinate bone is seen the orifice of the Eustachian tube, overhung by a fold of mucous membrane, above which is seen a part of the pharyngeal or third tonsil. It is evident how readily enlargement of this tissue might interfere with the orifice of the tube ; compare the following specimens. 17.5. The Nasal Passages and their Connections. Hunterian. GG. 4. The section of the left side corresponding to the previous specimen ; the antrum opened as in the preceding, but the tur-