HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 136 which occupied the external surface, and appeared to arise from every part of the bone that had been diseased. The dura mater separated from the fungus without tearing any of it away." (c) Carcinomata in Bone secondary to Tumours in other parts of the Body. (1) IN THE CRANIAL BONES. 5.181. Large Secondary (?) Carcinomatous Tumour of the Skull, involving Dura Mater and pressing on the Brain. Hunterian. EE. 27. "A soft pulpy tumour, which had formed a bed for itself on the upper surface of the brain, large enough to admit a child's fist, made its way through the top of the skull, and rose above the surface of the frontal and parietal bones for more than 2 inches in height and 4 or 5 in breadth." This and the following specimen have been identified as portions of the same tumour. Comparison of the two shows that the present specimen consists of about half of the tumour, with portions of the adjacent bone and dura mater. The bone, and tumour connected with it, has been again divided vertically, and one portion of it removed to show the underlying dura mater and its tumour mass. The cranial bone is expanded from a thickness of 5 mm. to a thickness of 40 mm. by tumour tissue, which at its edge seems to be separating the inner and the outer tables, at the same time infiltrating them and also causing formation of new bone in connection with both. For this, see also next specimen. Outside the line of irregular new bone derived from the outer table is a layer of pulpy tumour tissue, fairly dense, which appears to be thickened and infiltrated pericranium ; it is 15 mm. thick in the middle, and at the edge of the affected bone thin and continuous with the unaltered peri- cranium. Where the portion of tumour of bone has been removed, the dura mater is seen to be infiltrated with tumour tissue. In the cut surface of the edge, the dura mater is seen to be expanded and split into two layers, its thickness increasing from the normal at the edge of the infiltration up to about 10 mm. Inside the inner of these layers, and continuous with it, is the mass of tumour, very soft and loose textured, which is described above as having "formed a bed for itself on the upper surface of the brain." It is