XXV INTRODUCTION. as the result in a great measure of Hunter's devotion to the science and singular success in teaching it, and infusing his pupils with his own ardour for it. In a work of Dr. Matthew Baillie,i which is quoted with approval in the evidence taken by the Committee, it is written that " if anatomy be more generally or more perfectly known; if surgery has received any improvements from it, it is to be attri- buted in a great measure to the spirit of this single man": and Baillie did no more than voice the general feeling of men of science in his day. 2 It was in connection with his school of anatomy that the museum which William Hunter bequeathed to Glasgow University originated. William Hunter's connection with Glasgow was a close one. His father was the proj^rietor and tenant of the fai-m of Long Calder- wood, near East Kilbride (about eight miles by road from Glasgow Cross), and his mother was the daughter of Mr. John Paul, the treasurer of the city of Glasgow. William, their seventh child, was born at Long Calderwood on the 23rd of May, 1718. At the age of thirteen and a half he became a student in the Faculty of Arts in Glasgow University, obtained a bursary, and studied for five years. " His father had designed him for the Church, but the idea of sub- scribing to articles of faith was so repugnant to the liberal mode of thinking that he had already adopted, that he felt an insuperable aversion to theological pursuits. In this state of mind he happened 1 Lectures and Observations on Medicine, 8vo, London, 1825, p. 71. 2 America is also particularly indebted to William Hunter, as is shown by the following extract from a letter which is preserved in the Museum. It is addressed to Dr. Hunter, physician-extraordinary to Her Majesty, London, by W. Shippen, Jun., from Philadelphia, under date Nov. 5th, 1765:—"I am much pleased to hear you still continue to bless mankind by your very enter- taining and improving lectures ; to them I am indebted for the small attain- ments I have made in anatomy, and the credit I gain in that way in the American world ; am now preparing for my fourth course of anatomy, Dr. Morgan for his first course of materia medica. We have introduced the study of [word torn away] into our college, and hope every day to see our plan extended, and who knows but it may be even a college of physic ? Such a hope would raise the jealousy of some teachers of medicine in Brittain (sic), but I know your benevolent heart too well to doubt of your being pleased to hear that divine science was cultivated in this and every part of the world. I am sure, too, you will be particularly pleased to know that your own sons are engaged in the glorious attempt in America ; may the genius of Hunter be ever with us to ensure success." William Shippen was one of the founders of the University of Pennsylvania ; his course of anatomy was the first ever given in Philadelphia.