HVNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. xxiv taste for anatomy and the desire for better opportunities of prosecut- ing it at home. To quote the report of the Select Committee,^ " The reformation of this antiquated and imperfect system took place, in this country, in the year 1746, when Dr. William Hunter, having a singular enthusiasm for the science, established complete courses of anatomi- cal lectures, and opened a regular school for dissection. The reform thus introduced was complete, and its author exulted before his death in having raised and diifused such a spirit for dissection that he should leave behind him many better anatomists than himself." Hunter's course extended over four months, and consisted of about a hundred meetings. "Some people," he said in 1783, "thought even my former courses too long ; why ? they had been used to see a course of anatomy finished in thirty or forty lectures; and there- fore imagined that, when it took up nearly four months, it must be unnecessarily minute and prolix. But let them reflect how imper- fect such courses were; let them recollect that they never saw the human brain or nerves, nor the human lymphatic system, nor the gravid uterus and its contents; let them recollect that there were few parts of the body which they understood thoroughly after attend- ing even repeated courses of this kind, and then they will see that there was great room for improvement, and own that an opportunity of attending a more complete course of anatomical lectures must be a national advantage." ^ However it may have been before, it is certain that Hunter now managed to provide ample material for the practice of dissection by his students.^ The immediate consequences of this reformation of the teaching of anatomy were vast improvements in all branches of medical science and practice and the creation of such an enthusiasm for practical anatomy, and of such an appreciation of its value, that it came to be recognized by the authorities entrusted with the conferring of diplomas as an indispensable part of medical education, and to be practised on such a scale by " his immediate pupils and their suc- cessors" that Government was forced to legislate further for its regulation and protection. The Anatomy Act of 1832, which fol- lowed the report of the Select Committee, and under which, with but little modification, anatomists now work, may be fairly regarded 1 Report from the Select Committee on Anatomy : vide ante. ^ Introd. Lectures, p. 100. 5 In 1756 William Hunter had about 100 students (Supplement to Medical Commentaries, p. 20). How many he had later is not known.