33 STRUCTURE OF JOINTS IN GENERAL. named perichondrium. If they mean the cartilages of the ribs, larynx, ear, etc. there, indeed, such a membrane is very conspicuous; but the perichondrium of the smooth articulating cartilages is so fine and firmly braced upon the surface, that there is room to doubt whether it has been often demonstrated or rightly understood. This membrane I have raised in pretty large pieces after macerating; and find it to be a continuation of that fine smooth membrane that lines the capsular ligament, folded over the end of the bone where the ligament is inserted. On the neck of the bone, or between the insertion of the ligament and the border of the cartilage, it is very conspicuous, and may be pulled up with a pair of pincers; but where it covers the cartilage, it coheres to it so closely that it is not to be traced in the recent subject without great care and delicacy. In this particular it resembles that membrane which is common to the eyelids and forepart of the eyeball, and which is loosely connected with the albuginea, but strongly attached to the cornea." "From this description it is plain that every joint is invested with a membrane which forms a complete bag, and gives a covering to everything within the articulation in the same manner as the peritoneum invests not only the parieties, but the contents of the abdomen." The specimen is injected red. 2.3. The Blood-vessels of an Articulation. Hunterian. L. 3. Lower end of the femur, with the patella, semilunar cartilages, and adjacent portions of the synovial membrane, injected red. The bone, tendons, and synovial membrane all appear vascular, but the articular cartilages completely avascular. " The blood-vessels are so small that they do not admit the red globules of the blood, so that they remained in a great measure unknown, till the art of filling the vascular system with a liquid wax brought them to light. Nor even by this method are we able in adult subjects to demonstrate the vessels of the true cartilaginous substance; the fat, glands, and liga- ments shall be red with injected vessels, while not one coloured speck appears upon the cartilage itself. In verj^ young subjects, after a very subtle injection, they are very obvious; and I have found their course to be as follows: All round the neck of the bone there are a great number of arteries and veins, which ramify into smaller branches, and communicate with one another by frequent anasto- moses, like those of the mesentery. This might be called the Cir- culus Articuli Vasculosus, the vascular border of the joint. The small branches divide into itill smaller ones upon the adjoining sur- C