HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 68 end, and the fragments carried forwards and upwards, along with the fragments of the tibia. All the fragments of both bones are ankylosed together. The joint is distinctly widened by the mass of new bone between the fragments of the tibia and fibula. 3.93. Fracture of the Lower End of the Tibia united, with marked Eversion of the Foot. Hunterian. Eight tibia, lower end imperfect, from a grave, illustrating the above. The fracture, in which the fibula was doubtless included, has passed about 5 cm. above the joint, obliquely from without inwards, probably, so far as can be judged in the imperfect condition of the specimen, without involving the ankle-joint, and the lower fragments are displaced outwards about 3 cm. In this position it has united. The foot must have been very badly everted. 3.94. Pott's Fracture. Comparatively recent. Not united. Hunterian. Right tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. The internal malleolus of the tibia is split off, and the fibula broken obliquely from behind downwards and forwards about 4 cm. above the tip of the external malleolus. There is some osseous callus about the fractures, but the fragments have separated in maceration. 3.95. United Pott's Fracture. Osteo-arthritis. Hunterian. Right tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. The tip of the internal malleolus, and the fibula about 2-|- cm. above the tip of the external malleolus, have been broken and displaced outwards along with the foot. In this position union has taken place. There has been an osteo-arthritis with new bone-formation about the tibio-fibular and ankle-joints. There is no ankylosis, but there is a certain amount of interlocking of the osseous processes in the former joint. 3.96. United Fracture of the Fibula in the Lower Third, with Ankylosis to the Tibia. Hunterian. Left tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. Probably a "Pott's," with tearing of the internal lateral ligament instead of fracture of the internal malleolus. Well united.