HUNTEIUAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. xl absorbing vessels all over the body ; that they are the same as the lacteals; that these altogether, with the thoracic duct, constitute one great and general system, dispersed through the whole body for absorption; that this system onlij does absorb, and not the veins; that it serves to take up and convej^ whatever is to make or to be mixed with the blood, from the skin, from the intestinal canal, and from all the internal cavities and surfaces whatever." This great work, he says, he effected with the help of his pupils, John Hunter, Hewson, and Cruikshank.^ The lymphatic vessels were discovered long before Hunter's time, and the lacteals— the lymphatics of the intestines—were regarded as absorbent vessels rising from the internal surfaces of the intestines, and carrying the products of digestion into the blood by way of the thoracic duct. Absorption was also allowed to occur from all surfaces and cavities of the body, but it was supposed to be done by open orifices of certain veins, which were termed inhalent vessels. The similarity in structure of the lymphatics to the lacteals had been noted, and it had been suggested that they too were absorbents; but the generally accepted opinions as to the functions of these vessels and their relations to the blood- vessels were decidedly vague and unsatisfactorJ^ Though it was allowed that some of them might have an independent origin like the lacteals, many of them were only continuations of certain fine branches of the arteries—exhalent vessels; and whereas some of them ran into the thoracic duct like the lacteals, others were the inhalent vessels and ended directly in the veins. William Hunter's account- of their anatomical relations was a very great improve- ment and was quite what is now believed. From his observations of the phenomena of injections he was convinced that the arteries and veins formed a closed system of tubes. Whereas it was commonly supposed that the lymphatics could be injected by injecting the arteries, he believed that the arteries terminated in the veins alone "by continuity of canal," and proved that it was only when some of these vessels burst (as commonly happened in injecting), and extravasation occurred into the interstices of the tissues, that the injection mass entered the lymphatics. Also, when a fluid such as mercury was injected into the connective tissues, it readily passed into the lymphatics, but not into the veins. On these anatomical grounds, and from the similarity of ' Introductory Lectures, pp. 58-61. ^ Medical Commentaries, pp. 5-6 and 40.