ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS OF THE SPINE. 179 6.99. Arthritis Deformans of the Spine. Ankylosis. Hunterian. Two lower dorsal vertebrae, probably from a grave, united by osseous outgrowths from their edges on each side. On the right they have ankylosed; on the left they interlock by sinuous edges. 6.100. Arthritis Deformans of the Spine. Ankylosis. Hunterian. Portion of two lower vertebrae, graveyard fragment, showing the above; similar to the preceding, but more advanced. 6.101. Ankylosis of Entire Vertebral Column, Costo- vertebral and First Costo-sternal Articulations, and Sacro-iliac Synchondroses. Arthritis Ossi- ficans (?). Hunterian. The entire vertebral column from the atlas to the coccyx, with the first ribs and manubrium sterni, and seventh to tenth ribs of the right, and fifth to twelfth ribs of the left side, probably from a grave. The vertebrae from the atlas to the last lumbar are ankylosed into a single piece—partly by extensive bony outgrowths from the edges of the bodies similar to those in the preceding specimen, partly by ossification of various ligaments, and anky- losis of a few of the articular processes. There is a decided increase of the normal curve of the lower cervical and upper •dorsal regions of the spine; the other curves are about normal. The anterior common ligaments are extensively ossified. These along with the outgrowths from the edges of the bodies enclose the intervertebral discs in a ring of bone, preventing their con- dition being made out except in a few cases where the ring is incomplete. At these points the space is seen to be empty, narrowed a little perhaps, but .showing no trace of ossification across it. From behind, the posterior common ligament for a great part of its extent and the transverse ligament of the atlas can be seen to be ossified. The odontoid process of the axis is ankylosed to the anterior arch of the atlas. In the dorsal region the ligamenta subflava and interspinous ligaments, and the capsu- lar and other ligaments of the ribs, are all ossified. The cavities ■of one or two of the costo-vertebral joints, which, having been broken or cut, show in section, are not at all obliterated by bone ;