INTRODUCTION. xlix end of her pregnancy: the body was procured before any sensible putrefaction had begun; the season of the year was favourable to dissection; the injection of the blood-vessels proved successful; a very able painter in this way was found ; every part was examined in the most public manner, and the truth thereby well authenti- cated." In the course of some months ten plates were finished, which he proposed to publish forthwith, but other material coming to hand he resolved to wait. " He foresaw that, in the course of some years, by diligence he might procure in this great city so many opportunities of studying the gravid uterus, as to be enabled to make up a tolerable system; and to exhibit, by figures, all the principal changes that happen in the nine months of utero- gestation. Such is the work which at length is offered to the public. The execution of it has indeed taken up more time than what was at first expected, but it gives the author no small satisfaction to reflect that the delay of publication has contributed not a little to the value of the work." ^ All the original drawings used in the atlas of the G-ravid Uterus are preserved in the Hunterian Museum. They are nearly all done in red chalk; for the most part they are by Van Rymsdyk; a few by other artists. The copper-plates are the work of various celebrated engravers—two are by Sir Robert Strange. From the drawings the dates of 27 out of the 34 plates can be certainly determined, and from the nature of the plates these dates tell when the work was done. The drawing of the large dissections had to be made within a few days of obtaining the subjects, for Hunter did " not allow the artist to paint from memory or imagination, but only from immediate observation." Even the smaller figures, which are still represented by preparations in the museum, must have been done principally when they were fresh, for minute details are shown, which were necessarily obscured in converting the dissections into permanent preparations. Ten of the plates are taken from the 1750 case (Nos. I.-X.); one is dated 1754 (No. XV.). No. XXVI. from another source is 1 Hunter's Oravid Uterus appeared in 1774. The plates were accompanied by descriptive text in English and Latin, which obviated the necessity for translation. It was an elephant folio, printed by Baskerville of Birmingham. In 1815 a second edition was printed by Messrs. Cox, of the Borough, London, who had bought the copyright from Matthew Baillie. In 1851 a third edition was issued by the Sydenham Society, folio, the plates being doubled. The whole work was also copied full size in Caldani's Icones Anatomicae, vol. iii., Venice, 1810. d