219 ATHEROMA. intima is turned down from the muscle, and in it is seen the whole of one patch of atheroma and part of a second. The rest of the second patch adheres to the muscular layer, which, at this point, is evidently being involved in the disease. Below this is a large athero- matous patch infiltrated with lime salts, and from it the inner lamina of the tunica intima has been turned down. The rupture of the inner lamina over a calcareous plate and consequent exposure of its rough surface to the blood stream is a frequent cause of thrombosis. Compare No. 11.35, where thrombosis appears to be the result of a severe degree of atheroma. 11.34. Large Atheromatous Patch in the Aorta. Throm- bosis. Hunterian. B. 28. Not described in the old catalogue. The first part of the aorta, with its valves, laid open, showing two atheromatous patches in the stage of thickening of the intima. The largest measures 3 by 2-2 cm., and stands out fully 3 mm.; the centre of it presents a cicatricial appearance, and there is a thin deposit of fibrin round its edges. The valves, though they have been injured in preparation, are of normal texture, with the exception of one or two small opaque spots about their attachments. 11.35. Thrombosis of the Popliteal Artery. Atheroma. Gangrene. Hunterian. A. 11. "The posterior tibial artery from a mortified leg, impervious from the column of coagulated blood which blocks it up." The artery is very highly atheromatous; its walls are thickened and irregular from the presence of calcareous nodules, several of which are of consider- able size and project into the lumen of the vessel. The middle coat at these places is practically destroyed. About 1'5 cm. above the bifurcation into anterior and posterior tibial the artery is considerably dilated, and is filled with a very firm and dark thrombus adherent to the wall. Below this, the vessel is small, and filled with a small and soft coagulum which extends into the branches. Above the dilata- tion the vessel is filled for a considerable distance with clot, which is soft except where adhering to the walls. Thrombosis due to the atheromatous condition of the vessel has, by obstructing the circula- tion, been the cause of the gangrene. The dilated portion of the vessel was probably the starting-point of the thrombosis.