xxxiii INTRODUCTION. whose hands, are obtained from his own catalogue of the collection, and, in greater measure, from the works of himself and of others who contributed so largely to its upbuilding. William Hunter possessed in a remarkable degree the power of inspiring others with his own enthusiasm, and of engaging able men to work under his direction. The work of these assistants he scrupulously and generously acknowledged in his writings.^ It is indeed easier to tell what is the work of his assistants' hands than what is the work of his own. Of the " competent stock of preparations " which William Hunter had before he commenced teaching, very few are traceable. Doubt- less Douglas had some, and doubtless these passed into Hunter's hands along with the plates and papers. One or two of the dry bones, in fact, can be identified with the plates. A few preparations that belonged to Cheselden have also been recognized. {Vide Index of Names.) The preparations of the joints connected with Hunter's paper on the Articular Cartilages have already been referred to ; they are the earliest preparations that can be definitely identified as the work of his own hands. Although his collection of preparations would seem to have been a considerable one, even before he began to teach anatomy, its greatest growth took place after that event. Most of the prepara- tions, of which the history can be traced, date from after 1746. This is quite what might be expected. Only after the establishment of the course of anatomy would he realize what was required for its illustration, and only then would he obtain a sufficient supply of bodies for the making of numerous preparations. Moreover, till success in practice came the means to meet the expense of forming a large museum were not forthcoming, and success in practice came along with the growth of his reputation as an anatomist and pathologist. In 174.3 he first realized the leading fact as to the nature of the connection between the mother and the foetus in the placenta; and before 1746 he had also arrived at his ideas of the anatomical relations of the lymphatics to the arteries and veins, principally from the result of injections. Altogether, there is abundant evidence ^ The Dictionary of National Biography (Article, John Hunter) states, in reference to the dispute between him and John Hunter, that "there is no doubt that ... he regarded discoveries made in his dissecting room as his own." It is a pity that so unkind and at the same time so inaccurate a state- ment should have got into a work which is apt to be accepted as authoritative. C