HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 152 of arthritis deformans. The bone as a whole is condensed, and roughened by inflammatory new-formation on its surface. The deep erosion of the cancellous head is somewhat similar to that seen in the preceding. It is probably from either an old tubercular or septic arthritis. Movement was probably possible, but impaired. The shaft also shows a rickety inward curve, and the neck is set at an unusually open angle. HIP-JOINT—(a) where the DISEASE HAS BEEN ADVANCING. 6.23. Tubercular Arthritis. Hip-joint. Primary Disease apparently Caries in the Head of the Femur. Hv/nterian. Head and upper portion of the shaft of a left femur macerated and dried. The bone is rarefied to a very striking degree, and also shows a number of irregular cavities in the back of the neck and great trochanter. The walls of these are scooped out in rounded bays, and several of them are situated just at the edge of the articular head, and burrowing in under the cartilage. Altogether the appear- ances are very suggestive of tubercular disease in a fairly early and rapidly advancing condition. 6.24. Tubercular Arthritis. Hip-joint. Articular Head separated at Epiphysial Line and discharged through Abscess. Ankylosis at Hip and Knee. Presented hij Dr. Eankine of Carluke, 1877. The head of a femur separated through the epiphysial line, and thrown off as a sequestrum. There is some erosion of its articular surface, and also underneath it along the epiphysial line. The following is the history given along with it: " Discharged from abscess at the upper part of thigh. The person lived many years. The bones were turned out at a subsequent period, and the shaft of the thigh bone was found fused to the outside of the ilium. The knee was ankylosed so that the pelvis, thigh bone, and bone of the leg formed one piece." 6.25. Tubercular Arthritis. Hip-joint. Extension through Floor of Acetabulum into Pelvis. Hunterian. Right innominate bone macerated and dried, illustrating the above. Probably tubercular. The disease has been located in the