Ixxvi HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. The subsequent history of William Hunter's school of anatomy may be told briefly, although it deserves a longer notice than can be given here.^ Leigh Thomas soon retired, and was succeeded by Benjamin Brodie. Under Wilson and Brodie the traditions of the scliool were worthily maintained. Many rival schools had sprung up, but it still retained its place as the leading one. One of these had more pupils, according to Brodie, because the lectures there Avere more suited to the capacity of the average student; Wilson's were on too high a scientific plane for them. In 1808 Wilson bought out Baillie for £4000, believing that the College of Physicians intended to take over the school. They did not, however, and in 1812 Wilson, to get rid of some of the responsi- bilities he had undertaken, resolved to sell the school. Brodie could not afford to buy it, nor did he care for so large a venture, and it was sold to Sir Charles Bell. The purchase included Wilson's collection, which was incorporated with that of the purchaser. Brodie continued to lecture in surgery for some years, then the lectures in that subject were given by John Shaw, Bell's brother-in- law. Wilson having reserved the right of lecturing, the anatomy lectures were divided between him and Bell (the latter giving the greater number) till his death in 1821. Four years later, Bell sold his whole collection to the Eoyal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, of whose museum it forms the foundation ; and in 1826, he accepted the chair of anatomy in the New London University (now Universitj^ College). The Great Windmill Street School was carried on for a few years longer by Herbert Mayo, Caesar Hawkins, and others. In 1830 King's College was opened, and Mayo accepted the chair of anatomy there. The building being not quite fit for the teaching of anatomy, he continued to conduct his class in the old school. During 1831, most of his collection and apparatus was transferred to King's College. The era of the private schools of anatomy was drawing to a close, and that of the greater schools in the colleges and large hospitals had commenced. The Great Windmill Street School was finally closed about 1833. It had done its work. It is to be feared that the museum in Glasgow University was not ^ Vide Letter of the late Sir Benjamin Brodie in vol. ii. of Thomson's Gullen, note X., p. 739, re the Windmill Street School of Anatomy; also Mr. D'Arcy Power's article in the Brit. Med. Jour., 1895, ii.,p. 1388.