HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 150 to the outer condyle of the femur. The position of the bones is that of semi-flexion, with a certain amount also of inversion and pathological dislocation backwards of the tibia and fibula. There has been considerable erosion of the epiphyses, and also tubercular foci in the cancellous heads of the diaphyses, close to the epiphysial lines. Some of these foci, in both femur and tibia, have apparently been in communication with the joint. The bones, as a whole, are light and unduly porous—a condition of atrophy. 6.17. Tubercular Arthritis. Knee-joint. Ankylosis in Bad Position. Hunterian. Portions of femur, tibia, and patella, probably from a grave, illustrating the above. Probably tubercular complicated by septic disease. The three bones are firmly ankylosed by bone, the can- cellous tissue, for the most part, continuous from the one to the other; in parts, a trace of the dense articular plates remains. As in the preceding, the ankylosis is most advanced opposite the centres of the condyles, and there is a space where ankylosis has not occurred between them, corresponding to the attachments of the fibro-cartilages. The patella is fused with the outer condyle of the femur. The tibia is dislocated outwards and backwards, and everted to a very considerable degree. There is slight flexion. From the point of view of utility of the limb, an unsatisfactory position. S. 18. Tubercular Arthritis. Knee-joint. Ankylosis with Marked Flexion and Eversion of the Leg: Bad Position. Hunterian. Left femur and tibia, probably from a grave, illustrating the above. From an adult. The specimen shows the usual position assumed by a tubercular knee-joint which has been allowed to go on to the natural cure by ankylosis, without proper support or operation. The leg is considerably flexed; the tibia dislocated backwards and outwards, and very markedly everted. The ankylosis is more advanced than in the preceding. The position of the crucial liga- ments, as usual, is marked by an open space. The irregularities of the bones are rounded off, showing the disease to have been of very old standing. The head and neck of the femur are set at a very open angle to the shaft; probably to compensate for the deformity.