336 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 22.16. Spina Bifida. Meningocele. Hunierian. EE. 49a. The lower region of the spinal column with the soft parts, showing a spina bifida in the sacral region, laid open from behind. The spinal cord is attached to the base of the tumour, not having been retracted in the normal manner, as the growth of the bones outstripped that of the cord. The cavity of the tumour shows, " on the deep side, a slight linear depression," by which it communicates with the sub- dural space by a small aperture. The base to the right of this is dissected away, showing a large gap in the vertebral arches, like in No. 22.14, and the "sacral nerves lying normally, and rising from a level above the linear depression." They run straight from the cord nearly horizontally to their foramina, without entering the tumour sac. The quotations are from the above-mentioned paper by Professor Cleland, in Morton, " On Spina Bifida." 22.17. Spina Bifida. Meningo-myelocele. Hunterian. EE. 49. Lower part of the trunk of a foetus, part of the vertebrae and sac removed to show its interior. The cord passes out, bj^ a gap opposite the meeting of the 4th and 5th lumbar vertebrae, into the sac, and is attached to it.s apex, which is drawn down and puckered into a shape like the umbilicus. The central part of the surface of the tumour is a soft tissue, which is not skin. In the centre of this is a narrow foramen leading into the cord ; marked with a bristle. 22.18. Spina Bifida. Meningo-myelocele. Hunterian. EE. 495. The lower part of the vertebral column and adjacent soft parts of a foetus, showing a spina bifida dissected. The gap in the vertebral arches extends from the top to the bottom of the sacrum. The spinal cord passes out to the apex of the tumour, which is umbilicated at that point. A considerable area round the umbilica- tion is not skin. A bristle is passed from it into the central canal of the cord. The spinal nerves rise from the apex of the sac, and traverse its cavity to their foramina. Compare succeeding speci- mens.