129 HIMPLE TUMOURS OF BONE. 5.169. Exostosis of the Femur. Hunterian. Right femur, probably from a grave. Iii the region of the origin of the crureus muscle there projects forwards and downwards a large mass of bone. Its sides have a firm shell pierced by numerous foramina for blood-vessels; it is porous on the anterior surface, which, in the fresh state, was probably covered with cartilage. The base of the tumour measures 9 cm. longitudinally by 5 cm. across. It is considerably wider than the shaft, and projects about 3 cm. forwards. Below, it is continued in a thick spur, overhang- ing its base about 4 cm. See also Series 8, Diseases of Muscles, Tendons, etc. Comparative Pathology of Osteoma. 5.170. Osteoma of the Canon Bones of a Horse. Hunterian. Lower portion of the canon bone and first phalanx of the fore- leg of a horse enveloped in a large and very irregular mass of dense bone. Macerated, dried, and divided longitudinally. Tlie growth appears to have arisen in two portions from the two sides and back of the long bones, and from the two sesamoid bones connected with the joint. The sawing of the bones has allowed the two masses to separate. The smaller is connected with the one half of the phalanx and the corresponding sesamoid bone; it is distinct from that of the other side, and has no trace of saw cut on it. It has also been free from the canon bone altogether. The mass of the other side is much larger, and almost completely envelops the other sesamoid and halves of the canon bone and phalanx, ankylosing them all together. The saw has cut off portions of it, which, along with one half of the canon bone, have been lost; the cut surfaces show very dense irregular bone. The outer surface looks like that of a very coarse sponge—irregularly nodulated, full of large foramina, and the surface of the individual nodules full of finer pores. It was probably growing at the periphery. When the two portions are placed in apposition, the mass is of oval shape, and measures 20 cm. long by 11 cm. broad and 35 cm. in circum- ference. 5.171. Osteomata of Sternum of Natatorial Bird. Presented by Professor Young, 1897. Sternum, probably of a wild duck, macerated and dried, showing I