62 HUNTERIAN ANA TO MIC A L CA TA LOU UE. than the ligamentuni patellae. This band just below the upper fragment was connected with the articular surface of the femur by an adhesion about 2 cm. long, which prevented full extension of the leg, but did not interfere with flexion. The usefulness of the limb must have been much impaired. The inner surface of the upper fragment is ulcerated in consequence of pressure on the femur. ■Compare next specimen. 3.73. Erosion of Femur by Fragment of Fractured Patella. Hunterian. LL. 24. Lower end of femur corresponding to the previous specimen, showing a ragged surface 4-5 cm. by 2'5 cm., where by pressure and rubbing of the upper fragment of the patella the soft parts and periosteum have been destroyed and even the surface of the bone slightly eroded. In the position of semiflexion these two specimens fit into one another exactly. In this position the adhesion between the patella and the femur, which is marked with a piece of black bristle, was not quite tense ; but it was evident that it must have prevented extension of the leg beyond a position about 30° short of the straight line. 3.74. Old United Fracture of the Tibia. Upper Third. Comminuted. Necrosis of Splinters. Hunterian. Right tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. Apparently of very old standing, the lines of fracture being quite obliterated. It was probably compound, due to direct violence, and comminuted. It was situated in the upper half, principally in the upper third, of the tibia. It is strongly mended by a thick mass of new bone, very dense, but with very large holes for the blood-vessels, and perforated by six cloacae, in none of which does there now remain any sequestrum. The head of the tibia is twisted inwards, the internal tuberosity being much lower than the external. The edges of the articular surface are lipped with osseous outgrowths, the result of chronic osteo-arthritis. The upper tibio-fibular articula- tion is completely ankylosed. Opposite the seat of fracture the two shafts are united by a thick buttress of bone, and the shaft of the fibula lower down is thickened and roughened by sub-periosteal new bone-formation.