INJURIES OF BONE. 65 3.82. Badly United Fracture of Both Bones at the Junction of the Lower and Middle Thirds. Eimterian. Left tibia and part of fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. The bones are broken at the same point, a form of fracture usually the result of direct violence. The lower fragment, with which the foot must have gone, is displaced outwards. The two bones have become ankylosed; the lower part of fibula is wanting. 3.83. Badly United Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula at the Junction of the Lower and Middle Thirds, with a second Fracture into the Ankle-joint. Hunterian. Lower half of the right tibia and fibula macerated, dried, and divided by longitudinal section, showing the above. The upper fractures have passed from above and behind downwards, inwards, and forwards. The lower fractures are splittings of the ends of both bones into the ankle-joint. All the fractures are united very strongly, but in bad position. The section shows the obliteration of the medullary cavity by strong solid bone. There is considerable irregularity of the articular surface of the ankle, due partly to the fracture, partly to consecutive inflammation of the joint. The bones are ankylosed at both seats of fracture. The foot must have been considerably everted, and the joint of little or no use. 3.84. Badly United Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula at the Junction of the Lower and Middle Thirds. Hunterian. Left tibia and fibula macerated and dried, showing the above. The foot has been set very badly displaced forwards. The upper end of the lower fragment of the tibia is lodged in the interosseous space, overlapping the upper considerably and meeting it at a considerable angle. The three fragments are firmly united. The lower end of the upper fragment of the fibula is rounded and its medullary cavity closed; it had not united with the lower frag- ment, which has unfortunately been lost. The usefulness of the leg must have been much impaired. Figured in Cheselden's Osteographia, Plate LIV., fig. 1, as " Tibia and Fibula joyned by a Callus." E