146 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 6.4. Acute Septic Arthritis of the Ankle-joint secondary to Compound Fracture. Himtcrian. LL. 15. Astragalus belonging to the preceding specimens, injected red, showing that almost all the articular cartilage has been destroyed, as if melted away, leaving the bone bare. In the posterior part of the articular surface the disease has advanced further ; the bone is eroded and carious, and covered with a layer of granulation tissue corre- sponding to that on the lower end of the tibia. This presents a rather fibrous appearance, indicating that it had been growing for some time ; its further organization would have produced oblitera- tion of the joint cavity, and eventually ankylosis. The astragalo- calcaneoid joint has also been infected ] it shows similar appearances. Compare No. 5.112, Ankylosis after Septic Arthritis secondary to Compound Fracture. 6.5. Acute Septic Arthritis of the Ankle-joint. Destruc- tion of the Cartilages. Hunterian. LL. 46 (?). Anterior portion of the lower third of right leg divided longi- tudinally, showing the above. Coarsely injected red. The specimen appears to be the end of a stump, probably of an amputation below the astragalus, from which the flaps have sloughed. The lower surface of the soft parts looks as if it had been a raw surface—partly sloughing, partly granulating. The ends of several tendons are visible in it. The articular surfaces are completely denuded of cartilage, but not otherwise diseased ; probably the result of septic arthritis following the operation. 6. 6. Acute Septic Arthritis of the Ankle-joint. Destruc- tion of the Cartilages. Hunterian. LL. 45. Posterior section of the preceding, with the astragalus removed, showing the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula denuded of cartilage. (6) Diseases of the Joints and Bones due to the Tubercle Bacillus. To render this series anything like representative, a large number of specimens, illustrating various stages of the diseases, are required. Those in the collection are few, and mostly dry bones without any