xvlii HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. in the case of the Hunterian specimens the word " Hunterian," with the old series letter and the number in the series (or simply Hunterian" for the uncatalogued specimens), and in the case of others the name of the donor and the date, or " JefFray Collection," or " From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection," as the case might be. The old Hunterian numbers, fortunately, were cut on the jars with a diamond; this excellent means of ensuring their survival has been continued wherever a broken or unsuitable jar has had to be replaced, by cutting it on the new jar ; but the new numbers are not so attached. After the title comes the description of the specimen, commencing with a brief statement of what it is and how it has been prepared and mounted. The majority of the specimens are mounted in 10 O.P. spirit (methylated but non-mineralized); there- fore where the nature of the mountant is not specified, this is to be understood as the medium. The description or clinical history follows, without the distinction of a new paragraph. The history, where there happens to be any, is placed before the description; last of all follow any remarks which may have appeared to the author to be necessary or desirable. Where no clinical history is given it is to be understood that none was available to the author of the present catalogue. In some parts of the collection there were a considerable number of specimens which, either from deterioration through time or from original defects, were unsatisfactory, and it was considered that the series would be clearer and easier to study without these. They were therefore weeded out, and carefully laid aside lest at any time they should be wanted again. In addition to the cataloguing there was the overhauling of the collection. Considering how long a time has elapsed since the collection was formed it is surprising in what good preservation most of the preparations are. It shows that wet preparations well mounted and sealed are practically everlasting. Many of them, however, obviously required remounting, and many others, which appeared to be in good order, turned out on close investigation to be in an unsatisfactory condition; many, of course, required to be taken out of the jars for examination. It was therefore judged necessary, though it was a very large and very serious piece of work, to over- haul and remount the whole. This has been done, except in the case of a few, which having perfect covers and clear spirit, or being peculiarly delicate objects to interfere with, it was deemed well to let alone in the meantime. These remain to-day as Hunter left them; they are interesting mementoes of the old style of mounting.