xliii INTRODUCTION. in 1774 a description of the distribution of the lymphatics in the human body more complete than had ever been given before. Nearly all the work connected with these papers was done in William Hunter's dissecting rooms. The papers were illustrated by a series of most beautiful injected preparations, which under the terms of the partnership became the property of William Hunter. Most of the beautiful preparations of the lymphatics in the turtle and fishes, which now form a large part of Series 12, Anatomy of the Lymphatic System, are undoubtedly the work of Hewson's hands. There is also in the museum a set of dissections of the organ of hearing in fish, which appears to have been made by Hewson. Hewson's partnership with William Hunter ended in 1771 in a quarrel, which seems to have been originated principally about the possession of preparations; at least no reason besides that is given in the biography included in Gulliver's edition of his works. All preparations made in the school were made at Hunter's expense, and, according to Hunter's view of their agreement, they were his property, whereas Hewson claimed that, as a partner in the school, he had the right to make preparations for himself, provided the interests of Dr. Hunter and the lectures did not suffer thereby. The quarrel was submitted to the arbitration of Benjamin Franklin, who was an intimate friend of both, and he decided in favour of Hunter. The partnership was dissolved soon afterwards, and Hewson started a school of his own, which succeeded so well that before the end of the first course he had "more than half the number of pupils that he and Dr. Hunter had when in partnership." He unfortunately fell a victim to a dissection wound in 1774, aged only 34. "From the manner in Avhich Dr. Hunter^ and Mr. Hewson- wrote of each other, it is pleasing to suppose that they did not finally retain any acrimonious feeling from the disagreement which had led to their separation." After the settlement of the dispute Hunter handed over a number of preparations to Hewson, and possibly some of them came back among those that he bought when Hewson's collection, along with that of Magnus Falconar,^ was sold in 1778 ; but most of Hewson's preparations now in the museum never left it. ^ Introductory Lectures, p. 60. - On the Lymphatic System, p. 166, in Gulliver's edition. ^ Magnus Falconar was a very promising young anatomist, a pupil of Hewson, and his successor in his school. He was married to Hewson's sister. He most faithfully edited his friend's unpublished writings. He died of consumption at the age of 24. Several preparations in the Hunterian Museum were " bought at Falconar's sale."