Iviii HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. they cannot return back again; but then these do not run on and terminate as others in the large vessels or veins adjoining." In fact, he could not explain how the interchanges took place; his diffi- culties are referred to in an earlier part of this introduction. On the structure of the human placenta he is not absolutely in accordance with the views generally accepted at present. He regarded it as made up of the foetal vessels, and a spongy substance between them full of cells in which the maternal blood circulated. This substance he saw as white uninjected processes of connective tissue between the foetal vessels, and he regarded it as formed by the decidua which sent minute processes into every part of the placenta right to the outer surface of the chorionic membrane which forms its inner limit. These placental cells, which are now called the intervillous spaces, it is clear, he regarded as special blood-cells, which he compared to those of the corpus spongiosum penis, and not merely as the interstices of the connective tissue, though Rigby, in the notes to his edition of the Description of the Gravid Uterus, attributes that view to him. Nor can it be supposed that he regarded the maternal blood in them as extravasated. Micro- scopic sections show that, from the second month at least, there are not processes of decidua such as he described throughout the placenta; there is connective tissue between the foetal vessels, but it is that of the chorionic villi. He was right in describing the placenta as a compound organ inasmuch as the decidua is maternal; how far he was right in describing a maternal element all through it depends on a refinement which it is impossible he could ever have contemplated, viz. the nature of the epithelium of the chorionic villi—whether it is all foetal or partly maternal, partly foetal, is a question that remains for the future to settle. The extent of William Hunter's investigation of the comparative anatomy of the placenta is not shown in any of his works; he never published it in detail. His references to it show that his knowledge was accurate and of considerable extent. The descrip- tions in the MS. catalogue are very meagre, and do no more than confirm the above impression. As to the beauty and instructiveness of the preparations there can be only one opinion : they give a clearer idea of the principles of placental anatomy than can be obtained in any other way. There are preparations from the sow, mare, sheep, cow, cat, bitch, and rabbit, for the most part injected and dissected, and of a foetus and placenta from the sloth, which, however, is neither injected nor dissected. The