HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 118 ulna are eroded. The eroded bone in some parts has a rounded- off slightly condensed ajjpearance, as if healing were in progress. The whole condition, arthritis included, was probably syphilitic. Compare the shape of the ulna with that of the succeeding enlarged and dense bones. 5.130. Syphilitic Enlargement of Radius and Ulna. Hunterian, A large radius and ulna macerated and dried, showing the above. Both bones are considerably enlarged by periosteal formation around them of new bone, which is fairly dense and evidently of considerable age. The enlargement extends on the ulna from near the lower end up to the tip of the olecranon. It is most marked in the middle and upper portions. In the radius, on the other hand, the upper third is almost unaffected; while the lower two-thirds are as much thickened as the upper parts of the ulna. The new bone is not of uniform texture, parts being white and dense; other parts full of pores, like that on the preceding specimen. Compare the preceding and succeeding specimens. Probably syphilitic. 5.131. Syphilitic Enlargement and Condensation of the Radius and Ulna. Hunterian. A radius and ulna macerated and dried. They are greatly thickened and very heavy; their surface white and for the most part smooth. The distribution of the thickening is similar to that described in the preceding, affecting all but the lower end in the ulna, and all but the upper end in the radius. It is greatest on the posterior side of the ulna, increasing its curvature in that direction, and in the radius all round the middle. Comparing it with the two preceding specimens, it seems to be a later stage of a similar condition—a thickening by chronic periostitis followed by sclerosis of the new bone. Probably of syphilitic origin. 5.132. Syphilitic Enlargement of the Radius. Hunterian. A radius macerated and dried, very similar to the preceding— being greatly enlarged with the exception of the upper end and two or three centimetres of the shaft, but having a surface not quite so smooth and condensed. The lower half has been sawn in two.