171 LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. For changes due to Arthritis Deformans and allied conditions, see Nos. 6. 94 to 6. 113. (b) Lateral Curvature of the Spine. 6.76. Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Hunterian. An entire vertebral column macerated, dried, and articulated, showing the above. There is a very considerable curve, with the convexity to the right, extending from the third dorsal to the second lumbar vertebra. There is slight rotation of the vertebrae about the middle of the curve, carrying their bodies towards the convexity. 6.77. Severe Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Hunterian. The vertebral column, except the cervical portion, with the skele- ton of the thorax and pelvis; the soft parts, with the exception of the ligaments, cleaned off, probably after partial maceration, and dried. The specimen shows a very strong curve, with the convexity to the right, extending from .the second to the tenth dorsal, where it passes into a still stronger curve of the last two dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae, with the convexity to the left. In both curves the rotation of the vertebrae towards the convexity is well marked. In the lumbar, one or two of the bodies are distorted, as if crushed down on the concave side of the curve. The ribs are approximated to one another, and share in the curve—the outer surface of the left series anterior to the angles showing a concavity, while the right series is abnormally convex; the angles are narrowed on the right, and flattened out on the left. The pelvis (female) is well shaped. 6.78. Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Hunterian. A vertebral column partially macerated, cleaned to the ligaments, and dried, showing a double curvature; convexity to the left, in the upper dorsal; to the right and decidedly backwards, in the lower dorsal and lumbar region. The latter is much more pronounced. The bodies in both are rotated, as usual, towards the convexity, and distorted as if crushed on the concave side. This is very marked at the sharpest curve, the first and second lumbar vertebrae. Around the edges of the articular surfaces of the articular processes, and articulations of the ribs on the bodies and transverse processes, there are osseous outgrowths as in arthritis deformans. These