CHAP. XXV.] CHANGES OF FOOD IN THE SMALL INTESTINE. 241 and in the wliite-cliyle, chyle globules, fiit globules and molecular base.’' It would seem to follow, from observing the changes winch the food undergoes in the small intestine, that the immediate office of that portion of the intestinal canal is to form this chyle; and it appears probable that the secretions poured into the small intestine from the glands, especially the liver, pancreas, and the glands of Brunner, which communicate with it, exercise a chemical influence upon the alimentary matters whereby this material is formed. We shall see further on that this view, receives strong support from the results of experiments and observations respecting the functions of the pancreas and liver. Changes of the food in the small Intestine.—It remains now to inquire whether all the digestible food which passes from the stomach undergoes the change into chyle, or whether certain parts of it only are simply dissolved and pass by absorption directly into the portal blood, as in the stomach, whilst other parts are converted into chyle, and enter a difterent part of the circulation through the lacteal vessels. In other words, is it necessary that all food, prior to its appropriation by the blood as nutriment, should pass through the condition of chyle ? As it has been shown that the stomach can absorb certain fluids and dissolved solids, through the absorbing power of its blood- vessels, there can be no good reason for denying the same power to the intestines, which have a vascular system precisely of the same kind as that of the stomach. Now the substances which the stomach completely dissolves and absorbs, are the azotized ali- ments : it seems not unreasonable to conclude that such portions of these aliments as have escaped absorption by the stomach, may undergo a similar solution in the intestines, and be absorbed by their blood-vessels without passing through the state of chyle. But to answer this question accurately we must determine pre- cisely the changes which each kind of food undergoes in the intestine. Bouchardat and Sandras have obtained from their experiments results which indicate that fibrine does not undergo the change into white chyle. They fed animals with fibrine, coloured with saffron or cochineal, and were unable to detect any trace of the colouring matter in the chyle. They found, likewise, that the con- tents of the lacteal vessels of animals kept fasting differed in no respect from that of animals fed on fibrine. These experiments, therefore, render it highly improbable that fibrine contributes to the * See the Chapter on Adsoiiption.