[chap. XXV. DIGESTION. 226 about three-fourths or five-sixths of its circumference, gi-adually diminishing in depth towards each extremity, hut sometimes bifur- cating and coalescing by one or both subdivisions with the fold above and below. In the lowest part of the duodenum, and in the jejunum, the valvules conniventes acquire their highest deve- lopement. Here they lie very close together, and many of them pass nearly round the intestine; they are deeper, also, here than elsewhere, being sometimes half or three-fourths of an inch in depth. In the ileum they gradually diminish in length and in depth, frequently not passing round more than one-half the circum- ference of the intestine, and measuring not more than one-fourth or one-eighth of an inch in depth; and in the lowest part of the ileum they almost entirely disappear. It is remarkable that these folds are peculiar to the human sub- ject. No other animal, so far as we know, exhibits any arrange- ment of transverse folds of the intestinal mucous membrane resem- bling them. The folds of mucous membrane in the large Intestine are the par- titions between the cells of the colon ; they exhibit much uniformity of shape although they vary very much in size; they are least developed in the sigmoid flexure. At the junction of the ileum with the coecum there are two folds which bound the slit-like aperture of communication between the small and the large intestine. These are the segments of the ileo-coecal valve. The aperture is a simple slit which passes nearly horizontally from before backwards, and is bounded on all sides by mucous membrane. Its lower border is formed by the free edge of a deep semilunar fold of mucous membrane, enclosing submucous tissue, and a few circular muscular fibres; and another fold, of much less depth, but of similar shape and constitution, forms its upper lip. This latter fold has a more horizontal direction than the former, which is nearly vertical. The folds coalesce in front of and behind the aperture, and form small bands, called fresna, and which follow for a short distance the course and direction of the segments of the valve. The free margins of these two segments come in apposition in the distended state of the C03cum and close the aperture, or at least diminish and constrict it so much as, in general, to prevent the reflux of any but liquid or much-subdivided matters into the small intestine. In the rectum there are folds of various sizes and directions, which are most numerous in the empty state of the gut, and are effaced by its distension. The late Mr. Houston, of Dublin, has