CHAP. XX.] THE FIFTH NERVE, 113 Fmction of the fifth nerve.—The determination of the functions ' of the roots of spinal nerves has alForded the clue to that of the func- tions of the roots of the fifth nerve. The analogy of the smaller I root of the fifth with the anterior spinal root, and of the larger one with the posterior spinal root has long been admitted by anatomists. I Plence an analogy of function must be admitted, and the former i must be viewed as consisting’ of motor fibres, the latter of sensitive ' ones; and by tracing each of the three great divisions of the nerve, we may determine its function by its constitution, according as it derives its fibres from either root or from both. The ophthalmic and superior maxillary are composed of fibres derived exclusively from the larger root; they are, therefore, sensitive nerves. The inferior maxillary consists of fibres derived from both roots, and consequently is both motor and sensitive. Sir 0. Bell, in his original exposition of the functions of this nerve, fell into error from having- neglected to avail himself of this method of analysing the constitu- tion of each of its three divisions, from which he would have seen that it is the inferior maxillary alone which derives its fibres from both roots, and which perfectly resembles a spinal nerve in constitution. The distribution of the three divisions of the fifth nerve confirms most amply the view of its physiology suggested by the anatomy of its origin. The ophthalmic and superior maxillary are distributed entii’ely to sentient surfaces, or anastomose with motor nerves (the facial). They supply the skin of the forehead, of the eyelids, the conjunctiva, the eyeball, the mucous membrane of the nostrils, the integuments of the face, the upper lip, the nose, the beard on the upper lip, the integument of the ear, the temple, and the whiskers; they are the sensitive nerves to these regions. The inferior max- illary has two distinct sets of branches, the one by which the mus- cles of mastication are supplied—the other, which go to the integu- ments of the lower lip and chin, and the beard, and the mucous membrane of the mouth and tongue. This nerve is, therefore, the nerve of mastication, and of sensation to the surfaces above- named. Repeated experiments in the hands of various physiologists, none of which, however, were more conclusive than those of Mayo, indi- cate the same views of function. Division of the ophthalmic or of the superior maxillary induced loss of sensibility without muscular paralysis, leaving only such an impairment of the motor power as destruction of the sensitive nerves invariably produces, by impairing the power of exact adjustment, for which a high degree of sensibility is necessary. But when the inferior maxillary nerve was cut, then von. II. 1