CHAP. XVII.] 15 THE EYE. the force of blows directed towards that region. It is furnished with muscles capable of moving it towards any side, and of pro- truding or sinking it. It is likewise provided with moveable lids to guard its exposed surface from mechanical injury, and its nerve from the effects of excessive light; and with a lachrymal apparatus, by which the front of it is continually irrigated with a bland fluid. In the globe of the eye itself we recognize, as the most essential constituents, the expansion of the optic nerve, called the retina; and, in front of this, the transparent refracting media which, as a whole, transmit the light so as to bring its rays to a focus upon the nervous sheet. The curved form of the retina, and the rounded figure of the eye thence dexlved, are perfectly adapted to the curvatures of the refracting media : so that, if the nervous lamina had assumed any other shape, it would have been more or less out of focus, and vision consequently have been indistinct. To maintain the figure of the retina, and to protect a part of so much delicacy, in which the slightest change of form would be attended with injury to the function, the whole is encased in a dense tunic of great strength, termed the sclerotica ((T/ckT^^og, durus), which is opaque, except in front, where it is modified in structure, becomes perfectly transparent to allow the light to enter, and is known as the cornea. Between the sclerotica and the retina is interposed a layer of dark pigment, contained in a delicate mem- brane termed the choroid. In front of the retina are the transparent media. One of these (the vitreous hody or humor) is contained immediately within the cup which the retina forms, and appears specially constructed to give it that necessary support inside, which the sclerotica furnishes on the outside. The vitreous body occupies four-fifths of the whole glohe. Imbedded in its anterior part is a double convex lens (the crystalline lens or hody), which comes nearly up to the cornea; leaving, however, a small cavity containing a watery fluid, the aqueous humor, between itself and that transparent part of the external case. Across this cavity, and dividing it into an anterior and posterior chamber, hangs a vertical curtain-like process of the choroid, called the iris, perforated in the centre by an aperture, the pupil, for the admission of light to the interior, and contractile under the influence of light on the retina, in order that it may regulate the amount of light entering the organ. The perfect fluidity of the aqueous humor is a provision to allow of the ex- pansion and contraction of the pupil, and of the movements of the lens itself towards or from the cornea. The human eye would be nearly globular were it not that the