CHAP. XXIX.] QUANTITY OF CARBON EXHALFD. 413 can be proved in the arterial and venous blood. Moreover^ blood may be caused to absorb, or to give up, these gases after it has been removed from the body. All the tissues of the body contain a small quantity of dissolved gases; and carbonic acid can be detected in all the animal fluids, even in the urine. Frogs^ muscles, carefully deprived of nerves and vessels, will give out carbonic acid if placed in an atmosphere of oxygen gas, and it has been shown by Gr. Liebig, that the muscles continue to ab- sorb oxygen, and to exhale carbonic acid, as long as their power of contractility lasts, and that they retain their contractile power for a much longer period in an atmosphere of oxygen gas than in one of hydrogen, nitrogen, etc. The careful observations of Lehmann upon the respiration of insects (in which class the air is directly carried to the elements of the tissues by the tracheae), tend still further to prove the truth of this view. We may therefore conclude, that the oxygen of the air is carried by the blood to the ultimate elements of the tissues, and that here chemical combination takes place and carbonic acid is produced; the carbonic acid being then transmitted to the lungs in solution in the venous blood, and there exhaled. ' Quantitiy of Carbon removed from the Bodiy.—The estimation of the amount of carbon eliminated from the organism in a given time is a matter of great difficulty, and the results of the experi- ments of observers present wide differences. Allen and Pepys calculated the daily quantity at rather more than 11 oz. troy, while Mr. Coathupe estimated it at only 4’97 ounces, and Scharling at 7‘382 ounces. The method employed by Liebig consisted in subtracting the total quantity of carbon in the faeces and urine from that present in the food; the remainder represented the quantity excreted in the breath in the form of carbonic acid. From these data, Liebig calculates that an adult male, taking moderate exercise, loses 13’9 ounces of carbon daily from the lungs and skin. In order to convert this large quantity of carbon into carbonic acid, 37 ounces of oxygen must be absorbed during the same period by the lungs and skin ; but this estimate is doubtless too high. Andral and Gavarret estimated the carbon at nine ounces. According to the recent accurate investigations of Scharling, a powerful adult man exhales in the course of twenty-four hours about 30T) oz. of carbonic acid, which corresponds to 8-31 oz. of carbon, and this we may look upon as a correct estimate.