450 SECRETION. [chap. XXXII. serviceable for a time in the ever-moving circle of the functions of vegetative life. There is no waste here; and we may suppose that they do not become finally expelled until they have been reduced to forms of combination in which they can no longer minister to the life of the tissues. Such secretions are conveniently classed together as recrementitious. But it would be an error to suppose that all matters separated from the natural surfaces of the body fall exclusively under one of the foregoing heads; on the contrary, it happens in some cases that a secreted product is of a mixed kind, partly excrementitious and partly recrementitious—partly rejected as needless or injurious— partly thrown off that it may subsequently fulfil a useful purpose in the oeconomy of the individual and species. Thus the bile con- tains certain matters which are expelled with the excrements, while a large proportion of its elements is reabsorbed into the blood, after their commixture with the chyme in the intestines, and thus furnishes material for the production of animal heat in respiration. The chief secretions serving an ulterior purpose^ and which are thrown out with that object, are the following:—The generative elements—the milk, the sahvary, gastric, pancreatic, and allied fluids; parts of the biliary fluid; the mucus from some surfaces; the epidermis and its appendages from the skin; the sebaceous and odoriferous matters from certain glands; the tears. Water, as it forms a necessary part of the living frame, and is probably in constant course of formation within it, and as it is, besides, continually received in large quantities as food and drink, is a constant ingredient of the secretions, being thrown off espe- cially by the lungs, skin, and kidneys. By the two former its loss is determined, in a great degree, by simple evaporation into the sm’rounding air; and this is necessarily influenced much by the hygrometric state and other conditions of that medium. By the latter, whose office is complemental of that of the preceding, a special apparatus is furnished for draining off the water, wlule this fluid is made useful in extracting the ingredients of the most im- portant of the excretions from the surface over which it is subse- quently made to flow. Vicarious Secretion.—It has been remarked, that there is a sort of compensating action between the skin and kidneys in the normal condition of the system, dependent upon variations in tem- perature and other conditions. A similar power exists, in a more limited extent, in other secreting structures, by virtue of which