494 * Phil. Trails., 1842. KIDNEY. [chap. XXXIV. the capillaries of the Malpighian tuft, enters the efferent vessel, which conducts it into the branch of a portal vein ramifying upon the surface of thelohule. From the portal vein, it passes into a system of venous capillaries surrounding the tubes, from which it is at last carried into the emul- gent veins, which, with the artery, lie in the cen- tral part of the lobule. The comparison between the hepatic and the renal portal Part of flg. 239 shaded, showing the arrangement of tlie vessels circulation mav be and uriniferoxis tubes in the kidney of the boa, and in animals fur- . nished with a portal vein from an extraneous source, a. Artery. thuS dpaWU in mOl’C a/. Terminal twig going to Malpighian body. «/. Efferent vessel of the Malpighian body emptying itself into a branch of the portal generaltcrmS. ThcuOr- vein, p u, on the surface of the lobe, b l>. Ultimate branches of the ® . portal vein entering the capillary plexus, p, surrounding the tal SVStem of the livCr uriniferous tube, t. u. Branch of the ureter on the surface of the ^ lobe. ev. Emulgent vein within the lobe, receiving the blood from haS adoubleSOUTCe, OUC the plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. Supposed to be ’’ mag ni fled about 40 diameters. CXtl’aneOUS, the Other in the organ itself; so the portal system of the kidney, in the lower tribes, has a two-fold origin, one extraneous, the other in the organ itself. In both cases, the extraneous source is the principal one, and the artery furnishing the internal source is very small. But in the kid- ney of the higher tribes, the portal system has only one internal source, and the artery supplying it is propor- tionably large.’^* Of the Secretion of Urine.—Having passed in review the anatomical arrange- ment of the different structui’es com- posing the kidney, we shall now pro- ceed to consider briefly the functions which the several parts perform. First, with regard to the IMalpighian tufts; we have already seen that in animals, in Avhich the urinary excrement is passed in an almost solid form, the tufts are Fig. 241. Plan of the renal circulation in man and mammalia, a. Terminal branch of tile artery, giving the terminal twig, a/, to the Malpigliian tuft, m, from which emerges tlie efferent or portal vessel, e f (not shaded). Other efferent vessels, e, e, e, are seen entering the plexus of capillaries sun’ounding the uriniferous tube, t. l^rom ttiis plexus the emulgeut vein (e v) springs.