284 ABSORPTION. CHAP. XXVI. shown by Chevreul, tliat an animal tissue imbibed very dift’erent amounts of different fluids with which it was brought into contact after it had been dried. Thus the cornea took up water, brine and oil, in the proportions of 461, 370 and 9 ; and Liebig, in experi- ments with the dried bladder of the ox and pig, has found that “ of all liquids, pure water is taken up in the largest quantity; that the absorptive power for solution of salt diminishes in a certain ratio as the proportion of salt increases; and that a mixture of alcohol and water is taken up more abundantly the less alcohol it contains.” * The mixture of two dissimilar fluids through a membrane is much influenced by their respective attractions for the membrane. Thus, as water has a stronger affinity for the membrane, than brine or alcohol, it permeates it more readily and arrives in greater quantity in a given time on the opposite surface than either of those fluids. Hence more water comes through to mix with the alcohol, than alcohol to mix with the water, and an accumulation of the mixed fluids consequently takes place on the side of the alcohol : for the alcohol, or the water, having once traversed the thickness of the membrane, comes into contact with the opposite fluid, and becomes diffused through it in obedience to known laws. The same is true in regard to various substances miscible with water or dissolved in it. Within the blood-vessels and the lymphatics is a fluid consider- ably denser than water, and having less affinity for the walls than water. Hence, if water be applied to the surface of the body or taken into the stomach, it readily enters the circulation, particu- larly in the latter case, where it is brought into much closer contact with the blood-vessels. If a quart of warm water be injected into a torpid colon, half an hour will almost suflfice to convey it into the blood-vessels, and thence through the kidneys into the bladder. If, however, the injected water hold a consider- able quantity of common salt in solution, it will be absorbed more slowly; while, if the solution be a concentrated one, the fluid portion of the blood will pass out of the vessels to mix with the saline solution. The action of many medicines taken by the mouth, particularly of saline purgatives, is in some measure ex- plained by these laws. It is interesting to notice that albumen passes less readily through an animal membrane than gelatine, gum, or sugar. Thus alcohol, * Researches on the Motion of the Juices in the Animal Body. Translated by Wm. Gregory, M.D. London : 1848. P. 9.