THE HUMAN LUNGS. CHAP. XXIX.] 393 part by a route distinct from that of the arteries and bronchia. Thus the general mass of the lung may he regarded as containing two series of ramified canals, one transmitting the bronchia (with their vessels and nerves) and the pulmonary arteries, the other the pulmonary veins. This interesting fact was well described by Dr. Addison, of Guy’s Hospital, in a paper in the Medico-Chirurgical ' Transactions in 1840. At the root of the lungs four pulmonary veins result, which forthwith discharge their torrent of arterialized I blood into the left auricle of the heart. I The cause of the separate course of the pulmonary arteries and veins is to be found in the opposite position of their radicles, in ! regard to the capillary network of the lobules, it being a con- venient arrangement for the terminal arterial and venous twigs to hold alternate positions among the capillary network, so that each arterial twig disperses its blood in all directions, and each venous radicle collects it from all sides. An obvious analogy exists in I respect of the course of the vessels and ducts between the liver and ! lungs, the bile ducts answering to the air passages, the hepatic artery to the bronchial arteries, the vena porta to the pulmonary artery, the hepatic vein to the pulmonary vein. The nerves and lymphatics pass in both cases with the ducts. The capillary network of the lungs lies on and in the walls of the air cells and lohular passages. These walls are for the most part much too thin to enclose the capillaries between two layers of their substance, and therefore the capillaries project fairly into the air cells, by a great part of their circumference, being adherent to the wall by a narrow line only. The capillary wall is thus exposed and bare, in contact with the air of the cell, and nothing besides the delicate membrane of the capillary intervenes between the air and the blood. A capillary frequently passes through an aperture in the cell wall, so as to project first into one cell, and further on into a contiguous one, but never becomes altogether free from the wall. In passing, its wall is blended with that of the cell. The nuclei seen in the capillary walls elsewhere are very conspicuous in those of the lungs. The best way of proving the arrangement of the capillaries is by injecting a lung with size by the pulmonary artery till the blood- vessels and the air cells are both filled, the latter by transudation, and then slicing it when cold. The capillary wall is then seen to be uncovered by any tissue, just as is usual in the Malpighian tufts of the kidney. The diameter of the capillaries is about of an inch, which is large, and the blood therefore passes freely. The VOL. II. D I)