THE TEETH. CHAP. XXIII,] 167 and a root^ buried in the alveolus or socket; and the division be- tween these is marked on the surface by a somewhat constricted line, termed the mck. Each tooth has also an internal cavity^ contain- ing a vascular and nervous pulp, and which is open only towards the root. Lastly, each tooth consists mainly of a peculiar modification of osseous structure, termed dentine, or ivory, which is coated over with calcareous enamel on the crown, and with a thin layer of true hone on the root. The position and shape of the several varieties of the human teeth are as follow :— 1. The incisors, or cutting teeth, are situated in front, (those of the ujjper jaw being the larger,) and present a single conical root of large size, and a vertical crown, bevelled behind so as to terminate in a sharp horizontal edge. These teeth are fitted for cutting the food. In herbivorous animals they crop the herbage, in rodents they are capable of gnawing even very hard substances. 2. The canine teeth come next to, and are larger than, the incisors, especially the root, which sinks deeply into the jaw, and renders the alveolar arch prominent by its size. This root is conical, and the crown more conical and less wedge-shaped than that of the incisors, being usually surmounted with a small pointed tubercle or cusp, whence they are termed cuspidate. In consequence of the small size of the lower incisors, the lower canines are nearer together than the upper, and fall within them when the mouth is closed. These teeth in the canine, feline, and other carnivorous tribes, are largely developed, and more decidedly formed for lacerating and tearing the flesh of prey. 3. The bicuspids, or false molars, are not so large as the canines, which they succeed, but their crown presents two pyramidal emi- nences, as their name implies, and there is a tendency in their root to be double; this part being marked by a vertical groove, and its apex, sometimes bifid, being perforated by two apertures leading to the interior. 4. The true molars, or multicuspidate teeth, are placed most pos- teriorly, and are distinguished by their great size, the square form of their crown, surmounted by three, four, or five cusps, a distinct neck, and by their shorter, but more divided root, which presents from two to five branches, the inner the more divergent, and each perforated at its apex. The hindermost of these are the wisdom teeth. The false, and especially the true, molars are admirably adapted for grinding and pounding the food, under the influence of those powerful muscles by which the lower jaw is moved in a lateral direction while being forced against the upper. T'hough the least