313 CHAP. XXVII.] MORBID BLOOD. In diseases of an inflammatory type, in which there is active fever of a sthenic character, with proneness to the effusion of plastic lymph, or to the formation of thick laudable pus, fibrine is said to be increased in quantity to as much as five or six parts in one thou- sand of blood ; it is also said that there is an increase in the colour- less corpuscles, and at first a slight increase in the coloured corpuscles, though these latter afterwards undergo a diminution, which is the more marked in proportion to the extent of depletory measures em- ployed. In no diseases are these changes in the blood more con- spicuous than in rheumatic fever, pneumonia, and pleurisy. The cupping and buffing of the blood is very marked, and the most exquisite examples of that interesting phenomenon may be obtained from patients labouring under these maladies. Sufficient allowance, however, does not seem to have been made by observers generally for the extent to which the apparent increase of fibrine may be explained by the increase of the colourless corpuscles.* Diminution of the quantity of fibrine, accompanied with a de- crease in the red particles, occurs chiefly in fevers arising from the presence of a poison in the system. None show these changes more than those fevers which are caused by the paludal poison —namely, intermittent fevers. In rheumatic fever and in acute general gout there is a remarkable tendency to the diminution of the colouring matter of the blood, even when these diseases have been treated in the mildest manner. It would seem as if the materies morbi acted as a blight upon the red corpuscles, and prevented their developement in the normal proportions. In some cases—especially those connected with enlarged liver * Zimmerman, and more recently Mr. John Simon, in his valuable lectures on Pathology (Lancet, 1850, and since republished in 8vo) have advocated the doctrine, novel indeed, but most worthy of attention, that the fibrine of the blood must be regarded not as an ingredient prepared for the nourishment of certain tissues and ready to be appropriated by them, but as “ among those elements which have arisen in the blood from its own decay, or have reverted to it from the waste of the tissues.” Mr. Simon has been led to adopt this opinion chiefly from observing the unaltered or even increased quantity of the fibrine under bleeding, starvation, anaemia and other states of exhaustion and increased waste, and also from the fact that in these respects the fibrine is in direct contrast with the red particles which arc rapidly reduced by these means. This view is also favoured by the fact noticed by Andral and Gavarret, that an improvement in the breed of an animal tended always (cseteris paribus) to increase the proportion of the red particles, but to diminish that of the fibrine. The small quantity of fibrine in foetal blood, the absence of fibrine from the egg, the chyme, and the smaller quantity of it in the blood of carnivora (which feed on it) than in that of the lierbivora, arc additional facts adduced by Mr. Simon in support of this view. VOI,. II, Y