CHAP. XXIII.^ THE ENAMEL. 171 The following facts illustrate the foregoing account of the structure of dentine. The granularity of the ultimate tissue may be best seen in specimens in course of developement. On the surface of the pulp- cavity the orifices of the tubuli can be seen; and in transverse sec- tions of the tubuli,* (fig. 151,) their proper walls, the width of their walls and calibre, and their distance apart, are all discernible. In broken fragments, especially if torn after the tooth has been softened in acid, the tubuli may be observed to stand out from the surface, being broken off at different lengths, as if their structure was distinct from the iiitertubular tissue. Their hollow- ness is proved by the chasing of bubbles along them, visible under the microscope, when turpentine is added to a dry section, and also by the gas which may be seen to be disengaged in bubbles, chiefly from their interior, when a section is similarly treated with acid. The latter experiment seems also to shew that the parietes of the tubuli contain a denser deposit of earthy matter, and are consequently harder and more resisting than the intertubular tissue. We do not regard the tubuli as filled up by solid contents, but as possessing a truly hollow bore, designed to give passage to fluids. The enamel, investing the crown of the tooth, and forming that jiart which is exposed in the mouth to the contact of external sub- stances, is harder and compacter than the dentine, and of peculiar structure, although formed, as will be afterwafds shewn, on the same general plan as the other portions of organized bodies. As its earthy constituents are in much larger proportion than in the dentine, (for they make up 98 instead of 72 out of 100 parts, according to Berzelius,) the enamel requires much less nutrient change, and its interstitial passages are very minute. The enamel (fig. 160, a, and fig. 162) consists of a congeries of hexagonal rods, placed endwise side by side, so as to form a layer, of which the surfaces are formed by the ends of the rods, and the thickness is determined by their length. The deep surface * Mr. Topping, of York Place, New Road, mounts tliesc and other objects very skilfully. Fig. 151. Transverse sections of tubules of dentine, shewing their cavities, their waUs, and the Intertubular tissue. a. Ordinary distance apart. b. More crowded. c. Another view. Hiunan molar.—Magn. 400 diam.