51 CHAP. XVII.] EXCITABILITY OF THE RETINA. image upon it. The image, lioAvever, which becomes visible in tlie experiment on a dead eye, though j^artly due to the opacity the retina acquires soon after death, is yet an evidence that this mem- brane does not give passage to the light, like transparent glass, or the humors, but rather like ground glass, dispersing and reflecting some portion, as indeed its peculiar texture must dispose it to do. The pink colour of the pupil in albinos shows the reflexion that oc- curs in those cases from the vascular choroid and retina; and Mr. Gumming has recently pointed out that in the eyes of all persons, ' where the pupil is tolerably large, a very decided reflexion from the I bottom of the eye may be observed under favourable circumstances. I To make it apparent he places the individual at a distance of ten i feet fi-om a single gas-light or lamp, and directing him to look a little on one side, a strong glare becomes visible to any one standing almost directly between him and the light. In some persons this glare is exceedingly brilliant, like that from burnished brass: in others it is fainter. This reflexion can hardly be regarded as im- portant in a physiological point of view. It probably proceeds from the hyaloid membrane, the retina, and from the choroid also, but from the latter more or less according to the amount of pigment present in the particular instance. It is remarkable that these re- flexions do not interfere with the perfection of the sense, do not de- range the integrity of the impression resulting from the first passage of the rays. Corresponding but more vivid reflexions from the tapetum Incidum in certain animals serve an useful pui’pose, by giving an additional stimulus to the retina, where but a feeble light is admitted to the organ. Excitahiliiy of the retina^ and of the allied nervous parts.—When the retina is stimulated, we have the sensation of light, whatever may be the nature of the stimulus applied. Pressure, for instance, made on the side of the eye in the dark, gives rise to the sensation of a spot of light, the situation and size of which will be determined by those of the point of the retina touched. The same is true of the optic nerve, and of certain parts of the encephalon with which the nerve is connected. The sensation of light, then, consists in a recognition by the mind of a certain condition or affection of these nervous parts, and this condition may be induced by the applica- tion of any of the ordinary stimuli of nerves. The retina, however, is capable of being affected in this way by the luminous rays ; and perhaps this capacity is dependent on the peculiar manner in which the nervous matter is spread out in this part. However that may be, the light incident on the retina is the only stimulus which