444 VOICE. [chap. XXXI. voice-sounds, and as occurs in the case of other muscles, the movements of those muscles whose office it is to regulate the tension of the vocal chords, and govern the aperture of the glottis, are much more rapid and perfect, much more under the control of the will, and capable of executing more delicate movements in some persons than in others; and hence the wide difference between individuals as to their capacity for singing and vocalization. Some- thing in the difference of vocalizing power is due to minute and inappreciable differences in the length of the vocal chords—size of glottis—quantity of the elastic vocal chord tissue—of the mucous membrane (slight affections of which create hoarseness). The movements of the laryngeal muscles, as are the movements of respiration, are much influenced by mental emotions. In laughter, crying, sobbing, we have a combined excitement of re- spiratory and vocal actions. In health, the emotions of grief, joy, and surprise, affect both voice and speech—the latter more frequently and intensely than the former. Diseases which involve more or less disturbance of the centre of emotions, affect both voice and speech. Hysteria, and chorea, may be referred to, the former generally affecting the production of voice, the latter of speech. In certain affections of the brain, speech is impaired or alto- gether destroyed, or at most limited to a monosyllable Yes or No. This occurs under various conditions; sometimes in consequence of a chronic disease, sometimes of a shock: a diseased state of the convolutions or hemispheres is the most frequent concomitant of this symptom, but no precise part of the brain can be assigned as a special organ of speech. In many diseases of a spasmodie or convulsive character, the action of the muscles of the larynx is affected. In the spas- modic croup or crowing inspiration of children, the chink of the glottis is frequently so firmly closed, and for so long a time as to endanger life. The peculiar “hoop” of hooping-cough, and the curious voice-sounds so common and so varied in hysteria, show that either these nerves themselves or the precise part of the centre with which they are connected, are influenced by the mor- bid action. In chorea the same want of power of co-ordinating the movements is observed in the little muscles of the larynx as in those which preside over the movements of the limbs and other organs. In some of the conditions to which we have referred, it is diffi- cult to say whether the motor nerve or its central origin is affected.