CHAP, xxni.] DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TEETH. 177 I which remains in the interior of the tooth after its clcvelopcment has been completed. The chief vascularity of the pulp is uniformly found near the ossifying surface, whence it is evident that the earthy materials are supplied from that source. In the teeth of S07iie animals, in which the dentine is penetrated by many subordinate offsets from the central cavity, containing blood-vessels, these pas- sages are left in the progress of developement, just as has been above described. It has been already said that the reflexion of the original mucous membrane of the follicle on to the papilla takes place at a line corresponding nearly to the neck of the future tooth, and that the original papilla answers to the crown or body of the tooth, and not to the root. This latter is a subsequent formation, and is laid down gradually after a certain amount of ossification has already taken place in the crown, and after the enamel has been calcified. It is formed and ossified by a process precisely similar to that of the dentine of the croAvn, only a more protracted one, and during which the tooth is raised out of its sac, and bursts the contain- i ing gum The lengthening of the fang preceding its ossifica- I tion resembles closely that occurring at the junction of the shaft with the epiphyses of the long bones during their developement i (vol. i. p. 121.) The calcification of the enamel commences on the surface of the dentine, in contact with that primary osseous sheet formed from the basement membrane of the dentinal pulp. On this primary layer ^ are minute shallow cups, closely aggregated, answering to the ends of the enamel columns, and receiving them in a firmly cemented union, as the consolidation of the elementary cells proceeds. The > enamel columns at a very early stage seem to consist only of a ’ single series of nucleated particles, intervening between the dentine and the enamel-pulp; but subsequently others are added on the surface towards the enamel-pulp. Those of the new row arrange themselves endwise on the others, which they resemble in all re- spects, so that the enamel attains its proper thickness rather by the superposition of particle on particle, successively deposited, and by the subsequent calcification of each in its turn, than by the develope- ment of its parts by an interstitial increase ; and thus it appears to differ from the dentinal pulp, and to resemble the epithelium, to which it is allied. It is from that surface of the enamel-pulp which looks towards i the tooth, that this successive developement of new enamel columns I proceeds ; as they form, this tissue wastes; but it is not probable VOT>. II. N