GENERATION. [chap. XL. 578 Fiff. 273. brane is due. In the mucous membrane of the uterus of the bitch. Dr. Sharpey has described two distinct kinds of glands, one simple and the other compound. The openings of both these forms of glands may be readily seen upon the surface of the mucous mem- brane ; and they soon increase in dimensions, in order to receive the foetal processes of the chorion, which are covered with epithelium, similar to that lining the follicle. Immediately before the large compound glands open upon the surface. Dr. Sharpey describes their tube as forming a dilatation or cell, into which a foetal process of the chorion is received. At the bottom of this cell the duct may be seen; and as it passes to- wards the deep surface, it is observed to form the branched compound gland. At parturition, the vessels of course come away with the decidual membrane, as well as the cells just referred to, but the ducts and branching terminations of the glands remain behind. From this ar- rangement it follows that, in the bitch, the secretion elaborated from the system diametol s1mpie''gian^^ 21^^00111- of the mother by the agency of these pound glands. After Dr. Sharpey. l^rought into cloSC COntact with the vessels of the foetus, and afterwards absorbed by them. In the human decidua, the openings of the glands may be distinctly seen, and their epithelial lining readily traced. The tubes can be folloAved through the membrane; in fact, from numerous observa- tions, there can be no doubt that, like the decidual membrane in the bitch, the human decidua consists really of the altered mucous membrane of the uterus. Leydig has seen ciliary motion in the uterine glands of the sow. Next we have to consider how it is, that the ovum becomes covered with the decidual mem- brane. Dr. W. Hunter looked upon the decidua as a closed sac, separating the uterine cavity from epithelial uning. 2. f^e Openings of the Fallopian tubes. .When the Tube from which the descended, he supposed that it pushed the After Dr. Sharpey. decidua, as it Avei'e, before it, and tlius became covered, in the same manner that the viscera are invested with pe- ritoneum ; and hence. Dr. Hunter termed that portion of decidua covering the ovum, decidua rejlexa, while that lining the uterus was Fig. 274. Thin section of human decidua soon after im- pregnation had taken place, showing glands divided transversely. Magnified twelve dia- meters. 1. Tube with