CHAP. XXIV. I 213 VOMITING. pulsion of air from the lungs and keeps them in a certain state of distension until the eftbrt of vomiting is over, when the diaphragm relaxes and complete expiration takes place. That there cannot be complete closure of the glottis in the effort of vomiting is shown by the fact that that act is very frequently accompanied by a loud ex- plosive noise which must be formed in an open, although a resisting glottis. Dr. Anderson has shown by direct experiment that when dogs vomit nnder the influence of tartar emetic, the diaphragm is forcibly contracted. He introduced his finger into the abdomen, and found that during each effort of vomiting the diaphragm became tense and rigid, and descended towards the abdomen. And this he found took place even when the trachea had been previously opened, whence we may infer that the force of the expiratory muscles is spent chiefly upon the stomach. A warm controversy took place in the last century, and was revived in the present, with reference to the share which the stomach itself takes in the act of vomiting. Many high names in physiology took part in this discussion, some maintaining, among whom was John Hunter, and, subsequently, Majendie, that the stomach was perfectly passive, and that the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm were the sole agents of expulsion, while others, as Hallei', Rudolphi, &c., allowed that the contractions of these muscles only assist the expulsive efforts of the stomach, which, in some in- stances, may act independently of the surrounding muscles. Main- gault affirmed that he had seen vomiting occur after the division of the diaphragm and the abdominal muscles, and Rudolphi made the same assertion. And the Committee of the French Academy ap- pointed to investigate the question, admitted that it needed only a very slight external pressure to produce vomiting, and that distinct contractions of the muscular coat of the stomach were seen during the act in the neighbourhood of the pylorus. The question is one which cannot be decided by cruel experiments, unless it can be shown in several instances that vomiting can take place under conditions which render the abdominal muscles and diaphragm incapable of acting; such evidence would unequivocally demonstrate the activity of the stomach.-f- But the opposite experiments, such as the nou- * See Anderson, bond, and Edin. Montldy Journal, 1844. In this paper Dr. Anderson has given a complete refutation of Dr. Marshall Hall’s supposition that the diaphragm is inactive in vomiting. t M. L’Epione records, in the Bulletin de I’Academic de Medecinc, a case in point. A man’s abdomen was torn open by a horn, and tlie stomach wholly pro-