495 * Phil. Ti-ans., 1842. CHAP. XXXIV.] OF THE SECRETION OF URINE. small and simple compared with those in the kidneys of animals which pass the ui-inary constituents in solution in a large quantity of water. There can be little doubt that the special function of the vessels of the tuft is, to furnish the fluid portion of the urine while the solid matter, composed of various organic constituents and inorganic salts, is separated by the aid of the glandular epithelium which lines the convoluted portion of the tubes. “It would, indeed, he difficult to conceive a disposition of parts more calcu- lated to favour the escape of water from the blood than that of the Malpighian body, A large artery breaks irp in a very direct manner into a number of minute branches, each of which suddenly opens into an assemblage of vessels of far greater aggregate capacity than itself, and from which there is but one narrow exit. Hence must arise a very abrupt retardation in the velocity of the current of blood. The vessels in which this delay occurs are uncovered by any structure. They lie hare in a cell from which there is but one outlet.”* The arrangement of the eonvoluted por- tion of the tubes is very similar to that of other secreting tubular gland-structures. We have a delicate basement membrane in con- tact with vessels upon one surface and having secreting epithelium upon the other. The capillary net-work surrounding the urinife- rous tubes is the eounterpart of that investing the tubes of the testes; and the epithelium is alhed in structm’e to the best marked examples of glandular epithelium, and there ean be no doubt that the function of these cells is such as we have described. There is no reason for supposing that the cells of epithehum undergo rapid decay and renovation ; it appears more probable that they are not being constantly shed, either in an entire or disintegrated state, but that they have the power of selecting certain materials from the blood, and afterwards giving them up without their destruction. In the straight portion of the tubes the epithelium becomes thinner, and approaches more nearly to the pavement variety. It probably serves j>rincipaUy as a protective covering, and takes no part what- ever in the secretion of the urine. *