ACTION OF MUSCLES. 437 CHAP. XXXI.] Fig. 213. Tlie extrinsic muscles are those which connect the larynx to the sternum below and the hyoid bone above : the sterno-thyroid, the thyro-hyoid, and, indirectly, the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid and stylo-hyoid, and stylo-pharyngeal muscles. The intrinsic muscles are the crico-thyroidei, the arytenoidei, the crico-arytenoidei-postici and laterales, and the thyro-arytenoidei. AVe must refer to works on descriptive anatomy for the details of the connexions of these muscles; it must sutS.ee here to state, that their names denote very accurately their attachments to the segments of the larynx upon which they can exert their force. Action of Laryngeal Muscles.—The arytenoid cartilages are at- tached by ligaments to the posterior surface of the ericoid, which permit a considerable extent of rotation upon an articulating surface formed on the summit of the latter; by this arrange- ment the chordae vocales may be stretched or relaxed, and the aperture of the glottis increased or diminished according to the direction of the force which acts upon the arytenoid cartilages. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscles render the vocal cords more tense, hut at the same time cause them to diverge from each other, and so the width of the aperture of the glottis is enlarged. On the other hand, the thyro-arytenoid muscles, by drawing the arytenoid car- tilages towards the thyroid, relax the vo- cal ligaments, while the crico-arytenoi- dei laterales by causing the arytenoid cartilages to rotate inwards upon their axes approximate the vocal chords and diminish the aperture of the glottis. The arytenoid muscle draws the two cartilages towards each other and so tends to diminish the aperture of the glottis, especially at its posterior part. These different movements are further accelerated or increased in ex- tent by the action of certain other La^ySo®rightTide,'’al^^^^^^ intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the “If larvTiY Cartilage. 3. Direction of force of Thy- ro-Arytenoid Muscle. 4. Direction of Thus the arytenoid cartilages being crieffr^tfowef“PosLfs^’o^ fixed by the contraction of the ary- m. cn- tcuoid and posterior crico-arytenoid ^Sc^rpScuf^'fvoc"aiS^^^^^^^