CHAP. XXV.] FUNCTION OF THE FANCREAS. 245 of molecular matter, as well as red and white blood corpuscles. The contents of the intestine were more or less acid throughout, and abundantly coloured by bile. There were very numerous white flocculi, most conspicuous in the duodenum, and becoming gradually less numei'ous to within an inch or two of the ccecum, where they ceased. These flocculi consisted of an abundance, of granular matter, with columnar epithelium, having the free ends of the particles filled with minute oil-globules, while the neighbour- ing epithelium contained no oily matter. The villi were mostly stripped of their epithelial sheaths, or held them very loosely; the intra-villous structure was opaque, and the vesicular structure beneath the basement membrane at their free extremities was very distinct. It was evident in these experiments that the marked contrast between the state of the contents of the lacteals, and the condition of the villi, was connected with the presence or absence of fat in the food, and that so long as the food was purely albuminous or fibrin- ous, or mainly amylaceous, the chyle was transparent, and the villi apparently inactive ; but that the addition of fat to the food called the villi into activity, and filled the lacteals with an abun- dant milky chyle. Are we to infer then that the lacteals absorb fatty matters only, and that the villi are altogether Inactive, save when fatty or oily substances are to be absorbed ? We apprehend that such an inference is not justifiable ; it may, however, be concluded that the villi and the lacteals are capable of absorbing all substances which the blood-vessels absorb, and by a simple process; but that the absorption of fatty matters devolves upon them only, and is a more complex process, involving considerable changes in their tissue. And upon similar grounds we may conclude that while albuminous and fibrinous aliments contribute to the formation of chyle, they do not necessarily undergo the change into chyle in order to be absorbed. But fatty matters appear to admit of absorption in no other way, except by a reduction to the state of molecular base of the white chyle. These observations and experiments denote sufficiently clearly that two channels exist for the transmission of the nutritious mat- ters from the intestines to the blood ; one through the lacteals by the villi; the other directly through the walls of the blood-vessels themselves. Matters taking the latter route must pass through the liver and would be subjected to the influence of that gland before they reach the inferior vena cava and the right auricle, while those