SPLEEN. 516 [chap. XXXV, and, as it enters into the organ, receives an investment of fibrous tissue, which is prolonged upon the branches, forming their sheaths, which are connected with the trabeculcC. Lymphatics.—But little is known of the ultimate arrangement of the lymphatics of the spleen, or of the manner in which they commence. They are certainly not connected with the Malpighian corpuscles, nor can we look upon them as the channels which cany off the secretion of the organ, a view Avhich has been advo- cated by many observers. Nerves.—The nerves of the spleen are derived from the splenic plexus formed by branches from the left semilunar ganglion, and from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. The branches are distributed to the coats of the arteries; they may be traced upon them for a considerable distance, but gradually they become lost. Changes in the Blood in the Spleen.—The most important peculi- arities in splenic blood appear to be the following:—The total quantity of solid matter is considerably less in the blood of the splenic vein than in arterial or venous blood, and the blood cor- puscles are reduced to half the quantity. The greatest reduction seems to occur at the period of the greatest turgescence of the spleen. Mr. Gray has made the very interesting observation, that in starved animals no change is observable. The albumen is in- creased, particularly when the amount of blood corpuscles is much diminished. The quantity of fibrine in splenic blood, is also foimd to be increased. The serum is often observed of a pale reddish brown colour. Uses of the Spleen.—We have now to consider the uses of the spleen in the animal economy. From the large quantity of elastic tissue in its capsule and trabeculae, it seems eminently adapted to undergo great changes in volume; and the direct experiments of Dobson, and many other observers, have proved that it becomes much enlarged during digestion, as well as when blood was injected into the jugular vein. Connected with the large veins of the portal system, it forms a dilatable diverticulum, or reservoir, in which blood may, for a certain time, be contained, thus preventing dan- gerous congestion of the veins of the liver, and some other abdo- minal viscera, and, indeed, of the venous system generally. The spleen does not appear to be contractile. In several careful ex- periments, Mr. Gray was never able to cause more than a slight corrugation of the surface of the organ by the galvanic current, although active contractions could be produced in the oesophagus, or stomach, under similar circumstances. In no instance out of