512 [chap. XXXV. COLOUKLESS CONSTITUENTS. mauy instances corpuscles are seen evidently breaking up into small irregular masses of red eolouring matter. These appear- ances indieate that the red blood eorpuscles are undergoing a pro- eess of disintegration^ but this change also appears to be effeeted in another and very peeuliar manner, whieh Avas first deseribed by Kolliker. Several blood corpuseles (from one to nine or ten) colleeted together, appear to beeome covered Avith an investing- membrane, adhering to the interior Avail of which, a distinct nucleus may be obseiwed. Such appears to be the manner in which these blood corpusele-holding cells are formed, but Avhether the nucleus precedes the formation of the cell or sueeeeds it, is not knoAvn. The blood globules Avithiu now undergo disintegration in the manner just referred to, and at length the cell contains only coloured granules, varying in size and form. These granules gradually be- eome of a golden yelloAv eolour, and then paler, until at last the eontents of the eell become almost deeolourized. Oeeasionally, red crystals are seen in the blood corpuseles of the splenie parenchyma, as Avas first observed by Funke; and not uu- frequeutly numerous free coloured acicular erystals are met Avith. These appear to be the most important ehanges Avhich take place in the disintegration of the red blood eorpuscles in the spleen pulp. In some animals, the disintegration seems to oecur entirely Avithin the large cells ; while in others, the blood corpuscle-holding cells are very rarely met with, and the blood globules beeome broken doAvn into eoloured granules without being at any time en- elosed in a eell. In other cases, again, both processes occur. In the course of very numerous observations upon the human subject, Mr. Gray only observed blood corpuscles enclosed in cells in tAvo instances, and then in very small number. We may observe here, that Gei’lach interprets these facts in a totally different manner, and considers that the changes taldng place in the blood corpuscle-holding cells occur in the reverse order to that which Ave haA^e described. In fact, he considers that the blood corpuscles are formed in these cells, commencing as irregular yellow granules, and gradually becoming developed into the perfect red blood globule. In this Auew VirchoAv appears to coincide. Dr. Hughes Bennett, of Edinburgh, also considers the spleen as a blood-forming organ. The changes above i-eferrcd to take place in the spleen pulp Avhich lies between the trabeculae, and, of course, extcrual to the capillary vessels. Noav, avc liaA'^e to encpiire how^ the blood corpuscles leave the vessels and enter the pulp.