545 SEMINAL TUBULES. CHAP. XXXAHI.] liair follicles, as is usual in other situations in which they are found. The peculiar secretion known as the smegma preputii, is not due to these glands alone; but is rather to he regarded as an accumulation of the moist epithelium of the glans, which is, of course, mixed with the odoriferous sebaceous material. In the beaver, the epi- thelial secretion is so abundant, as to accumulate in large pre- putial pouches, the true nature of which was demonstrated by E. H. Weber. The secretion constitutes the substance known as castor. Vesicula Prostatica.—Between the openings of the ejaculatonj ducts in the middle line of the urethra, and in the substance of the cajmt gallinaginis, is a small cavity, lined with columnar epithelium, the prostatic vesicle, or uterus masculinus, as it has been termed by Weber, from its supposed homology with the female organ. It has since been described under the name of Weberian organ, from its discoverer. Seminal Tubules.—The highly tortuous seminal tubes, of which the true secreting portion of the testicle is composed, consist of a fibrous coat, internal to which we find a basement mem- brane surmounted by epithelium. Now the characters of this epithelium, and the nature of the contents of the tube, Avill be found to exhibit dif- 260. ferent appearances, ac- cording to the age of the individual; and in the lower animals, ac- cording to the period of the year. Sperma- tozoa, which arc the fertilizing agents, not found before bcrty in man, among animals are only developed at cer- tain periods. These bodies appear to be formed by certain al- terations taking place • .1 -I , n ,, Po'-tion Of seminal tubules Of man, with enclosed cells. Magnified in the character ot the 220 diameters, a. Wall of the tube. fc. Nuclei of fibrous coat c . , ... , Pusement membrane.—The latter figure represents the action of epithelium lining the acetic acid. (f. Cclls removed from the tubule. are pu- and tiibc.s, lor this latter is most distinct when spermatozoa are not being formed; but when the lunetioii ol the gland is very actively