375 CHAP. XXVIII.] CIRCULATION IN THE VEINS. in points of it, here and there, determining an increased flow of blood to this point and that, and leaving the intervening parts un- aftected. The well-ascertained fact, uU stimulus, iU fluoous, cannot be so well explained on the hypothesis that the stimulus creates a relaxation of the tunics of the capillaries of the part, because that is opposed to analogy, as on the supposition that under the operation of the stimulus the demand for blood in the tissues is augmented, and the capillary force becomes exalted in the part, in virtue of which a greater flow of blood is determined to it. The phenomena of asphyxia show that a stoppage of the circula- tion may take place at the capillaries, notwithstanding the con- tinuance of the heart’s action. When the access of air to the lungs is excluded, the circulation ceases at the pulmonary capillaries, and on examination after death the left auricle and ventricle are found quite empty, and the right cavities of the heart gorged with blood. The repletion of the latter cavities, and the emptiness of the former, indicate the position at which the obstruction to the circulation took place. Instantly the air is re-admitted to the lungs, the blood assumes a bright red colour and the circulation goes on, indicating that the changes which take place between the air and the blood, must generate a force which exercises an important influence on the capillary circulation, and without which the heart’s force is in- sufficient to propel the blood through the pulmonary vessels. Dr. John Reid* argues, as we think with justice, from the instanta- neousness of the restoration of the circulation on the re-admission of air, that its stoppage must be due to the cessation of the respiratory changes, and not to a contracted state of the capillary arteries as suggested by Mr. Erichsen, because the relaxation of those arteries, like their contraction, is a slow process, requiring two or three minutes to accomplish it.f • John Reid, on the Cessation of the Vital Changes in Asphyxia. Phys. Re- searches, Edinb. 1848. t Our friend and colleague. Dr. Geo. Johnson, has discovered a very interesting point, connected with the minute vessels of the kidney in cases of chronic nephritis with shrinking of the organ, wliich furnishes an additional instance of retardation or stoppage of tlie circulation at the capillaries, despite the continuance of the heart’s action. Dr. Jolinson sliews that under the influence of defective secretion, the renal eirculation is greatly retarded in the capillaries, and that the Malpighian capillaries arc consequently subjected to a greatly increased pressure and disten- sion, giving rise to an escape of scrum, or of blood when a rupture of one or more of the minute vessels has occurred. When such a state of vessels has been of long duration, as in ehronic inflammation of the kidneys. Dr. Johnson finds the capillary arteries much thickened, by reason of hypertrophy of their circular and longitudinal