CHAP. XVII.J STRUCTURE OF THE LENS. 35 behind. And the rest of the superficial plane are intermediate to these, and as nearly parallel as their curved course will allow. If we Fig. 123. Fig’ 124. Triple line on the surface of the Lens of the Sheep, with the radiation of the fibres indicated. The interspace between the radi- ating lines at the circumferences of this figure would each include about a hundred fibres.—Magni- fied 3 diameters. now consider that these lines on the surface are but the edges of planes which dip to the centre, and afford points of divergence and concourse for all the fibres deep as well as superficial, we shall readily comprehend what may at first sight seem an intricate structure. This arrangement was known to Leeuwenhoeck, and has been shown by Sir D. Brewster to present varieties in different classes of animals. In the human lens we find the tripartite division is seen imperfectly, and only in the centre; for the three primary diverging lines bifurcate again and again, and with considerable irregularity, so that the ultimate subdivision is into from twelve to sixteen parts in the adult, but only from four to six in the foetus. To the account now given may be added, that as the fibres are shorter in proportion as they are more internal, so do they ajipear narrower, more cylindrical, solid, and Intimately united to each other, as we trace the structure inwards. The superficial fibres are flat- tened according to the surface they answer to ; and of all it may be said, that they are narrower towards their extremities, as their arrangement renders necessary. The edges of the fibres in fishes are most beautifully toothed, and dovetailed together, as Sir D. Brewster pointed out (fig. 122, d) ; and something similar may be detected in the more superficial fibres of the lens of the larger mam- malia, and in man. But the deepest fibres present scarcely any trace of this elegant structure. Near the tripartite division of the lens the fibres are more united than elsewhere, and appear more or less consolidated together. The average thickness of the fibres in man IS about ski of an inch. Lens, hardened in spirit and partially divided along the three interior planes, as well as into lamellae, — Magnified 3j diame- ters. After Arnold.