THE VENOUS CIRCULATION. CHAP. XXVIII.] 377 but lias been most frequently noticed in observations on tlie circu- lation of cold-blooded animals. Pulsations synchronous with the heart’s beats may be not un- commonly noticed in the human subject, which it is important that the observer should not confound with those resulting from the extension of the heart’s impulse, as above referred to. These may be called the regurgitant^ and the communicated venous jnilse. The former is caused by the regurgitation which takes place from the right auricle into the large venous trunks connected with it at every systole of that cavity. In a state of health, the regurgitation is so small that its influence extends only to the larger veins—but when the right cavities of the heart are dilated, a much larger quantity of blood is regurgitated and a distinct venous pulse is visible in the superficial jugular veins, and sometimes in all the superficial veins which are distributed over the neck and upper part of the chest. The communicated venous pulse results simply from the proximity of some large artery which in its pulsations communicates to the vein a movement of a similar nature. Hales and Poiseuille estimated the force of the current of blood in the veins; the former by the introduction of tubes into the large veins, as in his experiments upon arteries, the latter by the hsemadynamometer, and their observations have lately been re- peated by Valentin and Mogk. Hales found that the blood rose to four feet two inches above the level of the heart, in a tube inserted towards the head into the jugular vein of a mare, the blood rising several inches when the animal strained, but subsiding again when he became quiet; hence it is plain that the force of the heart, competent as it is to maintain a column of such a height, must be amply sufficient to return the blood to the heart. Valentin and Mogk’s observations show that the force of the blood in the veins of dogs is equal to one-eleventh or one-twelfth of that in the corresponding arteries. The venous circulation is influenced a good deal by the respira- tory movements, which tend partly to promote, partly to retard it. These effects are produced most plainly by the forced movements of respiration. Thus a deep inspiration, by enlarging the capacity of the chest, generates a tendency to a vacuum which, under the pressure of the surrounding atmosphere, is filled chiefly by the rush of air into the trachea, and through it to the lungs, but partly by the afflux of the blood, which must be principally venous, since the semi- lunar valves would oppose any reflux in both the great arteries. Sir VOL. II. c c