277 ORIGIN OF THE LYMPHATICS. CHAP. XXVI.] animals and in man, than those comparatively large ones which compose the plexuses just mentioned. Kolliker observed these vessels during life, and satisfied himself of their continuity with the neighbouring lymphatic trunks. He found them about the same size, but less numerous than the blood-capillaries, and composed of a simple, very delicate membranous wall, projecting into small pointed processes, here and there, and containing a few flattened nuclei. The pointed processes may belong only to their rudimentary, and not to their completely developed condition. He states that they ramify in an arborescent manner, without anastomosing, and end by free closed extremities. They have no valves, and remain of the same width during life, but after death, exhibit the same contrac- tility, though not of so active a kind, as the capillaries, by lessening uniformly in diameter during a certain time. He was able to detect the movement of their transparent contents by that of the granules and lymph-corpuscles which, in rare instances, they were observed to contain, and found it to be continuous, and very slow, almost twelve times as slow as that of the blood in the capillaries. He found the mode of developement of these primary lymphatics to resemble closely that of the capillaries, i. e., it takes place by the outgrowth and subsequent coalescence and tabulation of processes from contiguous nucleated cells. Kolliker’s observations on the relations of these minute lym- phatics with the capillaries are interesting. He found that when the current of blood was regular, there was no appearance of com- munication between the two orders of vessels, but that when the circulation was excited and tumultuous, owing to the confinement of the tadpole under glass, during the observation under a high magnifying power, red blood-corpuscles escaped more or less readily from the blood-vessels into the contiguous lymphatics; and in several instances he was able to detect actual communications between lymphatics of the finest kind and the network of capillary blood-vessels. After careful inquiry, how'ever, he concludes that these junctions are due to rupture, or, perhaps, in some cases to a primitive abnormal formation. He further noticed a reflux of blood into the lymphatics through the orifices by which their trunks open into the larger veins. This retrograde current was almost always observed when the respiration was impeded by want of water, and the veins were consequently gorged, or Avhen a ligature was placed round the head. In the latter’case, the whole lymphatic tree was often fully and beautifully injected’with blood.