CHAP. XXVIII.] THE FORCE OF THE HEART. 359 and the blood rose, after the successive bleedings, to seven, six, five, four, and at length to two feet four inches. In a second experiment, exactly the same, excepting that it M^as made on a horse of more vigour than the subject of the previous one, the blood rose to nine feet eight inches, and fell subsequently, after successive bleedings, in the same manner as in the first experi- ment. A third experiment made upon a mare, consisted in fixing the brass pipe into the carotid artery towards the heart, and to f that the windpipe of a goose, on account of its pliancy, and to the [, other end of that a glass tube, twelve feet nine inches long. The blood rose in the tube to nine feet six inches, and behaved, in all respects, much in the same way as in the former experiments. And afterwards. Hales experimented in the same way on the sheep, the deer, the dog, with results essentially similar, but varying with ; the size and general power of the animal. 5 Hales estimated the force of the left ventricle of the heart at the moment of its systole, by multiplying the area of its inner surface ^ into the height of the column of blood in the tube, which it was capable of sustaining, calculating also the absolute weight of the quantity of blood which formed that column. From these data he concluded that the contraction of the left ventricle of the horse’s heart was capable of sustaining a weight of 113 lbs., that of the sheep 36’56 lbs., that of the dog 33’61 lbs., when the animal weighed 52 lbs., and 19‘8 and 11T lbs. in dogs weighing respec- tively 24 lbs. and ] 8 lbs. Poiseuille improved upon the method of Hales’s experiments, and , obviated some objections to them. He employed an instrument the hezmadynamometer. (Fig. 201.) This consisted I of a glass tube bent so as to form a horizontal (B") and two perpen- ! dicular (BB) portions. The horizontal portion is capable of being adapted by means of brass tubes of various size to arteries or veins, however different in calibre. The tube is attached to a board (AA'), on which a scale is marked. To use it mercury is poured into the perpendicular branches of the tube, and will, of course, stand at the same height in each when the instrument is kept in the perpendicular. In order to prevent the coagulation of the blood, which by causing it to adhere to the sides of the tube would complicate the experi- ment (a point not provided against in Hales’s experiments) a quantity of a strong solution of carbonate of soda is poured into the horizontal branch, and will therefore rest upon the column of mercury in the nearest vertical branch.