257 USE OF THE BILE. CHAP. XXV.] admission of the bile into the intestinal canal is always followed bv a greater or less derangement of digestion, and by more or less emaciation. But, as these consequences might arise not so much from the want of a due admixture of bile with the food which is undergoing digestion, as from the accumulation of the elements of the bile in the blood, which must derange all the functions more or less. Professor Schwann of Louvain tried some experi- ments which had for their object to stop the flow of bile into the bowel, and at the same time to provide for its excretion. He tied the common bile-duct in dogs, having first established an orifice of communication between the gall-bladder and the skin, through which the bile flowed out of the body as soon as it was secreted, instead of passing into the bowel. It is plain that if the bile were merely excretory, such an operation should produce no injurious effect upon the animal, as still excretion was amply pro- vided for.* Schwann found that of eighteen dogs operated upon in this way two only survived, and in these the divided bile-duct was found re- established, and the bile had resumed its usual channel. Of the remaining sixteen, ten died of the immediate effects of the operation, and the remaining six lingered on for some time, and ultimately died, without exhibiting any other cause for the fatal termination excepting the absence of bile in the intestinal canal. These six died at periods varying from seven days (in a young dog) to two months and a half, the average being two or three weeks after the opera- tion. During this time they exhibited indications of a very enfeebled nutrition, emaciation, muscular weakness, unsteadiness of gait, fall- ing off of the hairs; symptoms which became more developed the longer the dog survived the operation. The emaciation, indicated by a deficiency of weight, began generally on the third day from the operation. When the dogs licked the bile as it flowed out of the fistulous opening, and thus introduced it into the stomach, the digestion in that viscus was not impeded, nor were the results of the operation otherwise embarrassed, showing that it was capable of being digested by the stomach. Blondlot makes an objection to Schwann’s experiments, that, from his mode of operating, the external opening is apt to close, and thus the excretion of the bile is impeded and the nature of the secretion altered. He adopted a different operation, and pro- vided for the free discharge of bile by inserting a canula in the * Expuriences pour constator si la Bile joiic dans I’Economie Aniinalc uii Role esscnticl pour la Vie.—Mem <le I’Acad. Roy. de Bruxelles, an. 1844.