CHAP. XXV.] 243 INTESTINAL DIGESTION. stai'chy substances untlergo in tlie stomach and intestines in dogs. I^Ian and carnivora are unable to digest raw starch in the stomach or intestines. Raw potato-starch introduced in a muslin bag into the stomach through a fistulous opening in the walls of the stomach, and withdrawn after a sojourn of twenty-four hours in that viscus, showed no sign of any change, nor did the gastric juice out of the body, the mixture having been kept at a high temperature for the same time, exert airy influence upon the starch grains. When dogs were made to swallow raw starch, the grains were afterwards found intact in every part of the intestinal canal. Rabbits and granivorous birds, however, were found to possess the power of digesting raw starch, although more slowly than that which had been cooked. But this power was found to reside mainly in the upper part of the small intestine, and as the grains of starch be- came gradually fewer as the food descended in the intestinal canal, it seems reasonable to believe that each succeeding portion exercises a certain digestive power over them. In birds the digestive power of the small intestine was greater than in rabbits, the lower part of the intestine in the former exhibiting no traces of the starch grains. In the upper part of the small intestine, sugar and dex- trine were found, and the lower the contents had passed down, the more did all traces of starch disappear. Boiled starch is more readily digested by all animals than raw ; to the carnivora and to man, cooking is essential to its perfect di- gestion. The same changes take place in it as in the raw starch, i. e., it seems to undergo conversion into sugar, dextrine, and lactic acid. This change, however, is very slow and gradual, and although it occurs chiefly in the upper portion of the intestine, it is found taking place throughout the whole canal. The rapid forma- tion of sugar in the intestinal canal leads to a proportionally rapid absorption of it, and to the elimination of it by the kidneys. It is apparently to guard against this, to protect the kidneys against the irritating influence of this substance, that the change of the starch into sugar and dextrine goes on with great slowness throughout the whole intestinal canal. Our own experiments have yielded results similar to those of Bouchardat and Sandras, and confirm their conclusion, that neither azotised matters nor amylaceous substances contribute to form the true white chyle. At least it may be affirmed, that when animals are fed on such food, carefully freed from all oily or fatty matters, the fluid which is found in the lacteal vessels is perfectly trans- parent, and in all respects identical with that which is found in