CHAP. XVII.] ACTION OF THE llETINA IN VISION. 55 impressions, yet there is good reason to suppose that the hinder part of it is much more capable of appreciating them than the anterior. When using one eye only, we naturally direct it towards the object we wish to inspect, and in that way throw the image to the bottom of the globe. When the eye is thus fixed, objects near the boundary of the field of vision are less distinctly seen than those at its centre. The posterior part of the retina, too, is the best adapted to receive correct images through the dioptric media, and we find its gray nervous layer becoming thinner and ; thinner towards its anterior border. It is probable that the most anterior part of the retina is never j used in vision, since it can scarcely receive rays directly from the I lens. Dr. Young, by fixing the eye in the most natural direction, i viz. forwards and a little downwards, and by then moving before j it a luminous object, in various directions until it passed beyond the j range of vision, ascertained the range upwards to be 50°; downwards, ! 70°; inwards, 60°; and outwards, 90°: the extent in each direction I being limited by the contiguous parts of the face. An object, there- 1 fore, occupying only an angle of 120°, both in the vertical and hori- ; zontal direction, and suitably placed, would about fill the field of vision of a single eye, when the organ was fixed as above described. Now, it may be proved that no part of the image of such an object would fall on the anterior part of the retina. Perhaps it is only in, or very near, the axis of vision, that sight can be said to be 'perfect. The existence of the yellow spot of Scemmerring at that point continues a riddle which the most atten- tive examination of its anatomy has not yet solved. And from the absence of this spot in almost all the lower animals, we are led to doubt its importance to perfect vision. To the perfect exercise of vision, as of all the other senses, an effort of attentio'ifi is necessary; and this effort is naturally accom- panied with a motion of the eyeball towards the object, so that the image may be thrown upon the central part of the retina. The range of motion of the eyeball Dr. Young calculated at 55° in every direction; so that, the head being fixed, a single eye may have perfect vision of any point within a range of 110°. This field is further widened by the use of the opposite organ, but beyond this an increased range is only to be acquired by movements of the entire head. The internal, or gray nervous layer of the retina seems to be the essential part on which the power of the retina in the process of vision depends. That layer is an wibrohen sheet, continuous by its