CHAP. XXIV. DIGESTION. 204 of 98° or 100°; afterwards add dilute muriatic acid to the fluid until it redlssolves the precipitate which is at first thrown down ; the fluid thus formed will he found to possess full digestive powers, and all the properties of the gastric fluid. It is, in fact, an acidu- lated solution of pepslne in water. The pepsine may be precipi- tated from this solution hy some of the reagents which coagulate albumen. Bichloride of mercury will do this, and render the fluid inert. Alcohol and water at the boiling temperature produce the same effect: the precipitate, however, thrown down by 'alcohol, is capable of being redissolved in water, and then, with acid, will produce a dige.stive fluid. Tannin also precipitates it. It is evi- dent, therefore, that the digestive fluid contains a principle capable of affording distinct reactions. The solvents of this principle are water and dilute muriatic or acetic acids. The power which the digestive fluid has of coagulating caseine, independently of its acid, denotes that it holds in solution some special agent derived from the mucous membrane of the stomach. Alcohol added to a fresh infusion of mucous membrane throws down a white flocculent precipitate, which may he collected on a filter, and when dried will produce a grey compact mass. This, when redissolved in water, will exhibit digestive powers, and these powers are greatest when it is united with acetic and muriatic acids. We obtain in this way the nearest approach to the isolation of pepsine. The acid of the Gastric Juice.—Of the existence of an organic principle, a secondary organic compound, the product of the secre- tory action of the mucous membrane of the stomach, no doubt can be entertained ; but we can speak with less certainty of the nature of the acid which exists along with it in the gastric fluid of the stomach, inasmuch as recent observers have thrown a doubt upon the correctness of Front’s opinion. The following are the most recent opinions put forward on this subject. Blondlot affirms that the acidity of the gastric juice is due not to the presence of a free acid, but to the existence of hiphosphate of lime as one of its ingredients. To this, however, Melsens and Dumas raise the objection that carbonate of lime, or Iceland spar, placed in gastric juice for some hours becomes corroded and suffers a very notable diminution of weight, which can arise solely from the presence of a free acid. MM. Bernard and Barreswil likewise state some strong objections to the views of M. Blondlot in a paper published in 1844. They show that M. Blondlot failed to obtain effervescence by adding carbonate of lime to gastric juice,