CHAP. XXXV.] 509 CAPSULE OF TPIE SPLEEN. its internal surface is concave, and its external surface is in contact witli tlie diaphragm. The spleen lies in the left hypochondrium, and extends upwards as high as the tenth rib, but when enlarged reaches much higher, and increases upon the lower part of the thoracic cavity. The spleen is of a dark red colour, highly vas- cular, and of a soft pulpy consistence; it varies much in size, according to the state of general nutrition, and also at different periods of the digestive process. The weight of the spleen com- pared to that of the body at birth, is as 1:350, in adult life 1: 320, and in old age as 1; 700. The following points have to be noticed in considering the structm’e of the spleen: the capsule, the trabe- cidar tissue, the spleen pulp, or proper splenic parenchyma, and the arrangement of the arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics. Capsule of the Spleen.—The spleen is covered by a reflexion of peritoneum, which extends to it from the fundus of the stomach, and is called the gastrosplenic omentum. The proper capsule of the spleen is composed of white and yellow fibrous tissue, and per- mits of considerable distension. It envelopes the organ entirely, and is prolonged into the interior upon the vessels, which are enclosed in sheaths composed of a structure closely resembling the capsule of the organ. In man there is an absence of muscular fibre-cells in the capsule; but in the dog and pig, and some other mammalian animals, they are very numerous. Trabecular Tissue of the Spleen.—If a section of a spleen be care- fully washed under a stream of water, the dark-colom’ed soft pulpy matter is removed, and a perfectly white and complicated fibrous meshwork remains. The interspaces bounded by these trabeculae vary much in size and form; but they are all intersected by still smaller trabeculae, and these smaller spaces by fibres visible only by the aid of the microscope. The network thus formed, much resembles that of the corpora cavernosa penis, and the fibres com- posing it, are intimately connected with the fibrous capsule of the organ, and also with the sheaths of the vessels supplying it. The spaces or inter- stices communicate freely with each other, and in them is situated the pulpy tissue of the spleen. The larger trabeculae, like the fibrous cap- sule of the organ, arc composed chiefly of white fibrous tissue, with some fibres of the yellow element. The smaller trabeculae are Fig. 245. Cells from thctrnl)oc»lnrtis.suo composed of elongated spindle-shaped cells, "f immai. feetus ut mn MaRnlfleci 21.') dlaniotors.