THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD, [chap, xxviii. 326 the various tissues and organs. As the arteries divide and sub- divide, the veins follow a contrary course. They commence from the capillary plexuses of the tissues and organs by minute radicle vessels, which by their junction form larger ones, and these again unite to form still larger ones ; and so by the fusion of the smaller veins larger trunks are produced, until, at length, the venous blood from all parts of the body, is returned to the heart by two great venous trunks, the superior and the inferior 'oenee cavce. Veins are much more numerous, and for the most part more capacious than arteries. In the extremities and the trunk they are arranged upon two planes, a superficial plane and a deep-seated one : the latter accompanying the deep seated arteries; the former being immediately subjacent to the skin. The superficial veins are more numerous, and present greater variety both as to number and arrangement, than the deep veins. Their smaller radicles anastomose in the same manner as has been just described in the arteries. A distended vein has a cylindrical form, which, however, in some is interrupted here and there by a knotted appearance, caused by its enlargement at the situation of its various sets of valves. The coats of veins are essentially the same as those of arteries, but are less developed. Proceeding from without inwards, we find, first, an external tunic, composed of a thin layer of areolar tissue, answer- ing in structure, position, and function to the external coat of arteries. Secondly, we find a fibrous tunic of which the outer portion consists of circular fibres ; the inner portion of longitudinal fibres both coarse and fine. The circular fibres are but slightly developed ; they are of the same nature as those in arteries and in the larger veins, and exhibit somewhat of the penniform disposition, which we have described in the fibres of the arterial circular tunic. With them are mingled unstriped muscular fibres in less quantity but of precisely the same form and character as those in arteries. In the veins, near the heart, these circular fibres are replaced by similarly disposed muscular fibres of the striped kind continuous with and resembling those of the auricles.* The longitudinal fibres are well developed, consisting of the outer coarse layer which, in the large veins, as the cava ascendens, are arranged in the fonn of large bundles, parallel to the long axis of * Rauschel states that these fibres can be traced in the superior cava, as far as tlic clavicle, and in the inferior as far as the diaphragm, and in the pulmonary veins as far as the first subdivision of each.