542 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. [cHAP. XXXVII. fibre-cells. The secretion of these glands appears to be analogous to ordinary mucus. Penis.—The penis of man is a highly vascular organ, traversed on its inferior surface by the urethra; it is composed principally of erectile tissue, which is capable of being distended with blood. 1 his erectile tissue is arranged in three distinct divisions termed the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum. The corpora cavernosa penis are two in number, and are separated from each other, poste- riorly, by a septum, composed of fibrous tissue; while anteriorly, they are connected together, and might be considered as one organ. In the middle line above, is situated the dorsal vein, and other vessels and nerves; while the corpus spongiosum urethrae is re- ceived into a groove beneath. In the posterior part of the organ, the corpora cavernosa are separated from each other by a consider- able interval, and each is inserted into the rami of the ischium and pubis; these two diverging extremities of the corpora spongiosa are termed the crura of the penis. The corpora cavernosa are invested with a layer of firm fibrous tis- sue, which contains numerous fibres of the yellow elastic element. The empus spongiosum urethra surrounds the urethra, and com- mences behind, in a dilated portion situated between the erm’a penis; and it terminates anteriorly in the expanded glans penis, the rounded margin of which is termed corona glandis, and the con- stricted part beneath, the cervios or neck. These bodies consist of a vast number of small venous sinuses, which communicate with each other upon all sides, and contain venous blood. The walls of the sinuses or traheculce are lined with a layer of tesselated epithelium, external to which is found the proper fibrous tissue, or trabecular tissue. This is composed of white and yellow fibrous tissue, and fibres of organic muscle. The arteries and nerves for the supply of the organ are supported and surrounded by this texture. The arteries of the penis are branches of the pudic; and in their arrangement, present certain peculiarities, which are well worthy of notice. The smaller divisions, after pursuing a tortuous course in the trabecular tissue, at length open into the venous sinuses, with- out entering into the formation of any capillary plexus. In the posterior part of the penis, J. Muller discovered several minute arteries, which were much convoluted, and assumed the twisted appearance of tendrils; whence they were termed the helicine arteries. Kblliker has shovm that these arteries terminate in minute vessels, and not in blind extremities, as was originally