36 INNERVATION. [chap. xvii. The increasing density of the lens towards its centre is at- ' tended with an increase of the refracting power, designed to aug- < ment the convergence of the central rays of the transmitted pencils ' in their course through the lens, and thus to bring them to the same ' focus with the circumferential rays. Sir D. Brewster states the ■ refracting power of the lens at its surface to be 1-3767, and at the ; centre 1-3990. The lens, during its developement, has a very copious distribution • of blood to the outer surface of its capsule, from two sources. The central artery of the retina sends a vessel through the vitreous humor to the centre of its posterior surface, which branches into a radiating series of capillaries investing it as far as the border, where they anastomose with vessels derived from the ciliary processes, which proceed some way over the front of the capsule, and return in loops. None of these vessels continue after the lens has attained • to maturity. The lens consists chiefly of albumen, and becomes hard and • opaque by boiling. The central parts evidently contain a smaller proportion of water than the outer layers, which merely become flocculent by the action of heat. The fibrous and lamellar structure is more easily seen when thus rendered opaque, and it then separates more easily along the triple or multiple planes already indicated. ^ Berzelius states the precise chemical constitution of the lens to be as follows: . 58- 35-9 • 2-4 * 1-3 " . 2-4 100-0 The aqueous humor^ as its name imports, is very nearly pure > water, containing, according to Berzelius, less than a fiftieth of its ' weight of other matters, of which more than half is chloride of sodium, and the rest extractive, soluble either in water or alcohol. ■ It fills up the space between the cornea and lens—a space divided into two cavities by the membrana pupillaris in the foetus, and still partially divided by the iris into an anterior and posterior chamber, continuous through the pupil. The anterior, though small, is much larger than the posterior, and is bounded by the cornea in front, the iris behind, and a portion of the ciliary ligament at its circum- ference. The posterior is bounded by the iris in front, the lens and Water . Albumen Alcoholic extract, with salts Watery extract Membrane