INNERVATION. 112 [chap. XX, to the subjoined tabular arrangement of the distribution of each of its three divisions. TABULAR VIEW OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE FIFTH NERVE. a. Lachrymar b. Frontal Nasal I. Ophthalmic—(anastomoses with sympathetic). 1. 6. To lachrymal gland. 2. b. To unite with temporo-malar branch of supra-maxillary nerve. 3. b. To external canthus, eyelids, &c. 1. Sujira-trochlcator b, to integuments of internal canthus, conjunctiva, lids, &c. 2. Continued frontal nerve, or supra-orbital. 1. Lenticular b, to the oiihthalmic ganglion. 2. Ciliary nerves,—two in number. 3. Nasal b, to the mucous membrane and skin of the anterior part of the nostril. '4. Infra-trochleator, to the inner canthus and side of the nose. Superior Maxillary—(three stages, cranial, spheno-maxillary, orbital). a. Temporo-malar b.—Anastomoses with the lachrymal and is distributed to the integument of the temporal and malar region. b. Spheno-palatine b,—Two or three in number, which pass to the spheno- palatine gaiigUon. c. Post, superior dental b.—Two or three in number, going to the posterior teeth of the upper jaw; one branch passing along the interior of the antrum, and anastomosing with the anterior superior dental. d. Ant. superior dental b.—Supplies the anterior teeth of the upper jaw. 1. Palpebral. e. Facial . II Supplying the integuments of regions. those III. 2. Labial. 3. Nasal. Inferior Maxillary. a. Masseteric b.—To the masseter muscle. b. Deep temporal b.—Two in number, to the temporal muscle. c. Buccal b.—Anastomoses with branches of the facial, and goes to the exter- nal pterygoid and buccinator muscles, and to the mucous membrane of the mouth. d. Pterygoid b.—To the circumflexus palati and internal pterygoid muscle. e. Supeidicial temporal b.—Anastomoses with the facial, and is distributed to the skin of the temporal region and external ear. By its mylohyoid branch to the mylohyoid and digastric muscles. To the teeth, alveoli and gums of the lower jaw ; and by the mental branch to the integuments and mucous membrane of the lower lip. 'Is joined by the chorda tympani. Connecting filaments to the submaxillary ganglion or plexus. Anastomotic branches to the ninth nerve. VBranches to mucous membrane of the tongue. f. Inferior dental b.- Lingual b.