14 CHAPTER XVII. OF VISION. OF THE ANATOMY OF THE EYEBALL, OPTIC NERVES, AND APPENDAGES. OP THE PHENOMENA OP VISION. It would appear that an animal may be sensible to light without possessing an organ of vision. Thus, that beautiful little polyp, the hydra, shows a decided predilection for the light side of the vessel in which it is kept. Most animals, too, require the presence of light for the full performance of their functions ; and this is not the case with animals alone, but with plants likewise: both, in the great majority of instances, pine away in the dark, or fait to arrive at complete developement. But the presence of an organ of vision implies something more than the mere power of distinguishing between light and darkness. It must enable the animal to discern something of the colour, or at least of the form, of surrounding objects; and this in a degree pro- portioned to the perfection and complexity of its organization. The principle on which the organ is constructed seems to be in all cases the same, viz. that of the camera ohscura—a dark cham- ber with a small aperture for the admission of light, a quantity of black matter for the absorption of superabundant rays, and a nervous expansion on that wall which receives the rays of light. Among the lower invertehrata, the eyes, or ocelli, consist only of a nervous point, shielded with a minute quantity of colouring matter. The chief additions which increase the complexity of these organs in the higher animals consist of transparent media and lenses for the refraction of the light, and the production of a more precise image ; of an apparatus for the regulation of the quantity of light admitted to the retina ; and of other appendages for protection and move- ment. The position of the human eye at the upper part of the face and directed forwards, while it gives to the countenance its most impor- tant element of beauty, adds greatly to the utility of the organ, by increasing the visual range. For protection in this exposed situation, it is sunk deeply in a cushion of fat, within a bony cavity, the orbit, the prominent borders of which are well-adapted to receive