381 CIIA1>. xxYin.] RATE OF THE CIRCULATION. in them. It is important that this fact should be kept in view by the practitioner in the treatment of varicose veins, and of anasarcous states of the limbs. We have seen that the blood moves in the arteries with con- siderable velocity, and likewise with great, although much di- minished, rapidity in the capillaries; its rate of motion increasing again in the veins, especially in those nearest the heart. It may be inferred from these facts, that any given particle may complete the round of the circulation in an exceedingly brief period. It is an important problem—especially with reference to the time in which poisonous substances introduced into the blood may produce their effect—to determine in what space of time a substance introduced into one part of the circulation may reach the most distant part; or how soon, for instance, a substance inserted into the right jugular vein may, after traversing the right heart, the pulmonary circula- tion, the left heart, the systemic arteries, return to the systemic veins, and be found in the left'^ngwluv vein. In the present state of our knowledge no exact solution of this problem can be given. But a very close approximation to the truth may be obtained,—first by calculation, secondly by experi- ment. By calculation we can determine in what space of time the whole blood of the body may circulate through the heart. The data for this problem are, the weight of the whole quantity of blood in the body, the quantity of blood expelled at each systole from the left ventricle, and the number of systolic actions in a minute, or, more exactly, the duration of a pulse. It is plain that if the left ventricle contract seventy times in a minute, and at each contraction expel five ounces of blood, according to Valentin, or six ounces (j^th part of the weight of the body), according to Volkmann, a quantity of blood equal to that of the whole body will in that space of time pass through the heart. It may, then, be assumed from calculation, that the circulation may be completed in a period of time, which, in round numbers, may be expressed as one minute.* * Volkmami’s formula is t = z - wheic t is the required mean time of tlie y comidetion of tlie circulation, x is the whole quantity of the blood, y the quantity expelled at each systole, and z the mean duration of a pulse. Whence, takint; the mean quantity of x at 30 lbs., and of y at G‘2 ounces, the duration of a pnlsc , . .. , 15000 being 0-85 of a second, we get / = 0'85 —=G7-5 seconds. And as, ac- 188 cording to Valentin, the whole (inantity of blood is equal to about l-5tli the