DEVELOPMENT. 620 [chap. XLIII. from this time it becomes smaller, and gradually disappears. Mayer has, however, detected both the vesicle and its thread-like pedicle at the full period of gestation. Development of the Allantois.—At a very early period of develop- ment of the mammalian embryo, a collection of cells makes its ap- pearance upon the anterior sm-face of its caudal extremity. This gradually increases in size, becomes flask-shaped, and a cavity in the interior of the mass becomes visible. The vesicle thus formed rapidly enlarges. It contains fluid; and upon its surface, ves- sels, which ultimately become the umbilical vessels, are seen rami- fying. As it grows, these vessels are carried with it towards the inner sui’face of the chorion. The vessels of the umbilical vesicle waste with this structure; while those conducted to the placenta by the allantois, ultimately become the two umbilical arteries and the umbilical vein. In the human embryo, the chief office of the allantois seems to be that of conducting the vessels towards that portion of the chorion which is to become the future placenta; and as soon as the connection between the foetus and the placenta is established, which in the human embryo takes place between the third and fourth weeks, the allantois is no longer distinguishable. Besides this office, however, the allantois receives the secretion from the temporary kidneys, or corpora Wolffiana, previous to the formation of the permanent structures. In many of the lower animals, however, the allantois is developed to a much greater extent than it is in man. In birds and in several mammalian orders, it forms a very large sac, which completely surrounds the embryo; and in the ruminants it contains many quarts of fluid, towards the terminal tiori of intra-uterine life. The allantois in the chick is readily distinguished before the close of the third day, and appears to be connected with the terminal portion of the intes- tine. Reichert has carefully investigated its development; and has shown, that it is not developed from the intestine or from the membrana intermedia, but arises from two masses of cells, situated at the posterior extremity of the Wolffian bodies, which afterwards coalesce, forming a pear-shaped mass, in which a cavity soon manifests itself. Passing from the Wolffian bodies to the two small masses above referred to, are two lines or threads, which ulti- mately become the excretory ducts of the former organs. At an eai’ly period, the allantois communicates with a common cavity, or cloaca, into which the ureters, the excretory ducts of the Wolffian bodies, and those of the organs of generation open. This is called the sinus urino-genitalis. The allantois grows very rapidly, and ultimately entirely envelopes the embryo with its amnion and yolk, and becomes applied to the inner smface of the membrane of the egg-shell. It is highly vascular, and is, in fact, the respira- tory oi'gan of the chick as long as it remains witliin the shell. Tlie arrangement of the caj^illaries has been investigated by our friend.