445 SPEECH. CHAP. XXXI.] or whether the disturhanee is not excited in the centre through the influence of an afferent nerve. Anything irritating the delicate mucous membrane of the larynx creates violent spasmodic action of the muscles of the glottis, in which those of respiration fre- quently take part, through the medium of the affej'ent superior laryngeal nerve. Pressure upon the inferior laryngeal excites spasmodic cough, which often forms an important symptom of aneurism, or of medias- tinal tumor. Section or disease of the inferior laryngeal nerve completely destroys the power of vocalization. Stammering, at least in the greater number of instances, is an affection of the nervous system, not of the articulating organs. It consists in a defective control over the will, and an imperfect power of co-ordinating the muscles of speech. Stammering is much increased by any mental excitement, sudden surprise, etc., and one of the most important points to be kept in view in the treatment of this condition, is to avoid all cause of excitement to the patient, and to prevent him from thinking about his condition as much as possible, so that he may gradually obtain that com- mand over the movements of the muscles, which is required for conversation. Speech.—In the vocal apparatus, notes of very various pitch can be produced at will. The different sounds of the voice have been shown to be due to variations in the size of the aperture of the glottis and in the tension of the chordae vocales. The vocal organ, however, is not capable of producing those articulate sounds by which we are enabled to communicate to each other our ideas; but this end is obtained by an alteration taking place in the cavity situated above the glottis, and in the position of the organs which it contains. The most important conditions affecting speech are, first, the size of the oral aperture, secondly, the size of the buccal cavity, and, thirdly, the position of the tongue. The production of vowel sounds, which are continuous and can be prolonged at will, depends entirely upon the size of the buccal cavity and outlet. In the sound of the a in ah, these are opened to their widest extent, while in sounding a in fate the buccal cavity requires to be much reduced in size, by the lateral expan- sion and elevation of the tongue. When we sound the e in me, cavity and outlet are made still less. The o in no results from a still further diminution of the oral aperture while the buccal cavity is much increased; and in the oo in boot the former is