396 RESPIRATION. [chap. xxix. Mr. Rainey’s paper, and is drau'n from the lung of the fowl, highly magnified. Tlie gradations of perfection in the respiratory surface, considered as to its minute organization in Reptiles, Mammalia, and Birds, may be thus recapitulated. In Reptiles the cells are large and few. The air has access to the respiratory capillaries only on one surface, viz., that towards the cavity of the cell which they line; and where two cells are contiguous, but separated by a septum, the septum has a capillary web on each of its surfaces. In Mammalia, for the most part, the cells are much multiplied, and where two lie side to side, the septum between them has hut one layer of capillaries, which is, in a great measure, common to them both, and aerated on both its surfaces. And here we may remark the reason of the non-isolation of the lobules by areolar tissue in the mammalian lung, except at the borders and thinner parts, where such isolation is necessary for the movements of the lung in respiration. When the lobules are thus isolated, the capillaries on the cell-walls which bound the lobule, can have air only on that surface which is towards the cavity of the cells; whereas, when the contiguous lobules are blended by the fusion of the cell-walls which form their exterior, these cell-walls, like the rest, contain but a single respiratory plexus, which is aerated on both its surfaces. In Birds the respiratory capillary plexus is rendered the most perfect possible, both by the omission of the elastic supporting tissue, and also by the vascular plexus being no longer lamellar but solid, or extended alike in all directions. It is manifest that by this arrangement, a given pulmonary space is made to contain the greatest possible quantity of capillary wall, and that this wall is exposed most completely to the action of the air admitted around it. Movements of Respiration.—The thorax is a moveable frame- work composed of a nearly fixed column, the dorsal spine, on which are moveably articulated twenty-four ribs, curved and in- clined, so as to embrace a large conical space, and ending in carti- lages, wbich with three exceptions on each side (the floating ribs) are joined in front through the medium of a flat piece, the sternum, the inclination of which is downwards and forwards. The upper orifice, embraced by the vertebral column, first ribs, and sternum, is closed by a fascia of dense areolar tissue, rendered extremely irregular by the apices of the lungs, rising slightly into the neck, and by the various structures, the oesophagus, trachea, great blood- vessels, muscular and other parts, that pass through it. The lower orifice, which is very much larger, is closed by the diaphragm, an arched and sloping musculo-tendinous septum between the thorax and abdomen, through which pass the inferior vena cava, the aorta, and great absorbent trunk, as well as the oesophagus and the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves. Between the ribs are placed the two layers of intercostal muscles with oblique fibres op- positely crossing, and chiefly on the exterior of the bony framework