CHAP. XVIII.] OFFICE OF THE TYMPANUM. 91 brane tense, it was much more difficult to produce manifest move- ments in the grains of sand ; thus affording much reason to suppose that the tensor tympani muscle is analogous in its use to the ins, and destined to protect the organ from too strong impressions. These experiments can be best tried on the membrana tympani of the calf. i In imitation of the mechanism by which the tension of the mem- i brana tympani is effected, and with a view to determine more de- cisively the effects produced by variation of the tension of that mem- brane, Savart constructed a conical tube (fig. 145), with its apex truncated and covered by a layer of very thin paper, w^, which was glued to the edge of the opening. A little wooden lever, ?, ?, intro- duced through an opening in the side of the tube, and resting on the lower margin of this opening, <7, as a fulcrum, was used to vary the tension of the membrane, one of its extremities being applied to the under surface of the membrane. By depressing the extremity of the lever external to the tube, the inner one is raised, and thus the membrane stretched to a greater or less degree, according to the force used ; on the other hand, by elevating the outer extremity, the inner one is separated from the membrane, which is accordingly restored to its original tension. This little lever is an imitation of the handle of the malleus, which, under the influence of its muscles, causes the variation in the tension of the membrana tympani. The artificial tympanic membrane having been then covered with a layer of sand, it was found that, under the influence of a vibrating glass, ' used as in the former experiments, a manifest difference was pro- ‘ duced in the movements of the grains of sand, by increasing the tension of the paper ; the greater the tension, the less the height to which the grains of sand were raised ; and these movements were most extensive when the lever was withdrawn from contact, and the membrane left to itself. From these experiments Savart concludes that the membrana tympani may be considered as a body thrown into vibration by the air, and always executing vibrations equal in number to those of the sonorous body which excites the oscillations of the air. But what is the condition of the ossicles of the tympanum whilst the mem- brane is thus in vibration ? The result of the following experiment affords a clue to the answer to this question. To a membrane stretched over a vessel, as in fig. 146, a piece of wood, a, i, uniform