389 CHAP. XXIX.] THE HUMAN LUNGS. Fig. 204. ' 11 ' r>/ 0\ veniently designating that series of air-cells, associated by depen- dence on a single terminal air-tube. We shall afterwards sliow how much difference exists in the isolation of the lobules of the liver even in allied animals, and how unimportant this variety appears to be. The superficial lobules derive a covering on one aspect from the pleura, but are separated from it by rather dense areolar tissue, wln’ch may be dissected off without rupturing the air- cells. If the Interstices between contiguous superficial lobules be explored by the knife, the terminal bronchia are found at the bottom of the fissures, each going to a single lobule, and besides these are seen branches of the pulmonary artery and vein, not running in company, nor limiting themselves to a single lobule, but com- mon to contiguous lobules; so that the air-spaces of one lobule do not communicate with those of another across the interstices, but the blood- vessels do. On the exterior of a lobule we observe bubbles of air of various sizes in its tissue, and if the bronchial tubes be injected, the lobule is distended, and its exterior presents a number of bulgings known as the air-cells, about which much controversy has existed. m, . , . , , 1 1 1 1 ,-i Small bronchial tube laid Ineir shape seems irregularly polyhedral, like open, showing the am-mge- the lobules themselves. The angles, where three ginous flakes. The tube has p , ,, , . been cut across above, at the or more ot these cells meet, are the points at pointwhere it penetrates the Which the terminal twigs ot the pulmonary below where it has a dia- artery and vein penetrate among the cells, after inch. The elastic ami mus. meandermg more or less over the surface of sentcd, but both were so ,1111 Tji- • „ delicate as to allow the ad- the lobule. In their course in the interior of jacent air-ceiu to be seen xiiiiii ,• n through the bronchial wall. the lobule, these twigs generally run separately cuiaryepithelium was traced •, il 1* o • n 11 in the finest tube that could 111 the lines ot junction of three or more cell- be opened by scissors, viz., walls, branching as they run and breaking up Froi/a^ healthy ma^'^mt.’ into their capillaries on either hand. twenty-five. Natural size. As the superficial lobules are truncated where they form the surface of the lung, so the cells are truncated where they form the surface of the lobule. This is most decidedly the case where the lobules aie well defined, and admit of separation ^ but where contiguous lobules are not isolated by areolar tissue (as in most jiarts of the interior of the lungs, and in the lungs of the smaller