CUAP. XVIII.J THE COCHLEA. 75 the jugular fossa, and supposed to transmit a small vein. The spiral canal describes about two turns and a half, of which the first, passing’ round the large base of the modiolus, takes much the widest sweep, so as to encircle most of the second turn. The inner wall of this coiled canal, as has been shown by Ilg, forms the outer wall of the modiolus. The spiral canal of the cochlea is subdivided into two passages by an osseo-membranous lamina, extended between its modiolar and peripheral wall, and of course taking the same spiral direction as the canal itself. This is the lamina spiralis, the fundamental element of the cochlea, on which the nervous tubules are spread out. More than half its breadth on the side of the modiolus is formed by a vei’y brittle osseous process from the modiolus, called the osseous zone, enclosing minute channels continuous with those of that part, and transmitting the nerves; its opposite or outer portion is membranous and muscular, and connects the outer thin edge of the osseous zone to the outer wall. The osseous zone commences gradually within the vestibule, and enters the spiral canal between the vestibular and tympanic openings of the cochlea, forming, with the help of the membranous extension, a complete septum between them. The passages, or scales, into which the spiral lamina divides the canal, correspond, therefore, respectively to those chambers; the upper, towards the apex of the cochlea, scaloj vestibuli, the lower, towards its base, scala tympani. These scalae are, on the whole, pretty equal in size; the vestibular scala is, however, the smaller at the base, the tympanic, near the apex, of the coil; and the latter ceases ere it reaches the summit. At the apex of the cochlea the parts have an ai-rangement difficult to describe, though easily understood when seen. The axis, no longer hollow, and containing nerves, is reduced to a delicate lamella at about half a turn fi-om the dome-like summit, or cupola, formed by the last part of the spiral canal. This lamella, which is the real apex of the modiolus, immediately expands, stretches upwards, and becomes more twisted on itself, so as to include part, or all of the last half turn of the cochlear canal, being termed from its appearance as viewed from below, the infundibulum, or funnel. The wide part of this imperfect funnel is directed towards the cupola, with which it blends. It is not open above, but on the side, and it is, in fact, the outside of the last half turn of the canal, projecting into the turn below. The osseous zone of the spiral lamina ceases with the hollow modiolus at the slender lamella already mentioned, terminating by a small projecting hook {hamulus), the concave border of which is