19a CHAPTER XXIV. DIGESTION CONTINUED. THE STOMACH. ITS COATS, PARTICULARLY THE MUCOUS COAT. STOMACH CELLS AND TUBES. PYLORIC TUBES. MOVE- MENTS OP THE STOMACH. THE GASTRIC JUICE, ITS NATURE AND PRO- PERTIES. PEPSINE. STOMACH DIGESTION. The alimentary canal below the diaphragm is naturally divided into the stomach, the small intestine, and the large intestine, all of which are lined hy mucous membrane, have, like the oesophagus, a double muscular coat, and are, besides, invested with a serous mem- brane, the peritoneum, which facilitates the motions by which the contained matters are propelled from end to end. The stomach, of which we have first to speak, is an elongated curved pouch, very dilatable and contractile, fitted to receive the food from the oesophagus, to retain it while acted on by the gastric fluid secreted from the lining membrane, and then to transmit it to the duodenum or first part of the small intestine. It is expanded into an ample cul-de-sac at its left extremity, and becomes gradually narrower towards the pylorus, where it joins the duodenum. A cir- cular constriction is often apparent three or four inches from the pylorus, partially dividing the pyloric region from the rest of the cavity. It has an anterior and posterior surface, which become re- spectively rather upper and lower during repletion of the organ (owing to its change of bulk, and its being fixed at its two ori- fices), and an upper and lower curvature, called also lesser and greater, which undergo a corresponding alteration, becoming rather posterior and anterior. The peritonemn invests both surfaces, and passes from them to the liver (forming the gastro-hepatic omentum), to the spleen (forming the gastro-splenic omentum), and to the transverse colon (forming first the anterior and then the posterior layers of the great omentum). This peculiar arrangement of the serous membrane is probably intended to allow of the extreme changes of bulk to which this organ is liable. The muscular fibres of the stomach are continuous with those of the oesophagus ; but, in consequence of its irregular shape and its bulging from the cardia towards the left hypochondrium and the umbilical region, these