330 CHAP. XXVIII.] MUSCLE OF THE HEART. firmly by means of the chorclse tendinese upon the valves, and not only keeps them closed, but causes them to exercise a considerable pressure on the blood, which promotes its onward flow into the artery. Thus, by the attachment of the chordae tendineae to the several curtains of the valves, not only is regurgitation of the blood opposed, but every part of the surface of each curtain is made to press upon the blood with a force equal to that of the contraction of the ven- tricle, and to aid in propelling it through the artery. Should, how- ever, any imperfection of the valve exist, as by the imperfect apposition of its several portions, a chink remains between their margins, and regurgitation takes place to a degree proportionate to the size of the chink. The semilunar or arterial valves are closed in their turn by the pressure of the blood from the artery backward towards the heart. The blood forcibly driven back by the elastic reaction of the arte- rial walls, slips between the wall of the artery and the valves, at the sinuses of Valsalva, and throws the latter inwards, causing them to meet and close the arterial aperture, thereby preventing regurgitation into the ventricle. Thus the force by which the arterial valves are closed, being the elastic reaction of the arterial walls, excited by the expulsive force of the ventricle, bears a constant ratio to the con- tractile power of the wall of the heart, and, therefore, the degree of tension of the semilunar valves, and the sound which it developes (the second sound of the heart) enables us to form an estimate of the expulsive force of the ventricle, which is often of great value in practice. Of the Muscular Tissue of the Heart.—The heart is composed of muscular fibres of very various sizes. In all essential points of struc- ture these fibres resemble very closely the striped fibres of the external muscles, differing from them, however, in the extreme tenuity of the sarcolemma. They interlace with each other in an intricate manner, and assume opposite directions on different planes, thus forming a complicated interlacement of fibres, which adds greatly to the power of resistance possessed by the organ. By this interlacement the fibres of the heart adhere to each other, for between them there is little or none of that areolar tissue which exists in considerable quantity in the external muscles, and unites their fibres and fliscicles together. This interlacement takes place irrespective of any subdivision of the fibres. Nevertheless, it has iccently been noticed by Kblliker and other good observers, that a true anastomosis does take place between adjacent fibres by the