[chap. XL. 570 GENERATION. These researehes establish the fact of the existence of one or more pores or tubes passing through the coriaceous envelope^ and opening upon its interior. Leuckart has shewn that these pores are characteristic of all insect ova.* In July, 1854, Dr. Ransom made some very important observa- tions upon the ova of the stickleback, and demonstrated the exist- ence of a funnel-shaped depression, pierced by a canal, which passes through the chorion in the unimpregnated ovum. This is the micropyle, through which the spermatozoa pass to the interior of the ovum. “ In the act of impregnation, one or more (as many as four have been seen) spermatozoids pass into the micropyle. Actively moving spermatozoids may remain in contact with the chorion for eighteen minutes at least without producing any sensi- ble change in the ovum, provided none of them enter the micro- pyle but when one is seen to enter, in about a quarter of a minute a change is observable.’^t Dr. Ransom has found the micropyle in all the fresh-water fishes which he could obtain. The existence of the micropyle in the mammalian ovum has not yet been satisfactorily proved. Remak, however, regards certain streaks existing in the zona pellucida as pores or micropyles through Avhich the spermatozoa may pass. Changes in the Ovum immediately succeeding Impregnation. — The period of time, at which the ovum leaves the ovary, and passes into the Fallopian tube, varies considerably in diflerent animals; some- times it occurs within a few hours after impregnation, while in other instances, days, or even weeks, may elapse betAveen the time of coitus and the escape of the ovum from the Graafian follicle. In the dog, the OAuim may sometimes be found in the FaUopiau tube within thirty-six hours after coitus, and, at others, not until ten or twelve days afterwards. In the roe-deer, fom months are said to elapse between the act of impregnation and the escape of the ovum, according to the observations of M. Pockels. About the time that the ovum leaves the ovary, the cells of the membrana granulosa immediately surrounding it undergo a curious change of form, becoming club-shaped; their pointed extremity being at- tached to the zona pellucida, by which a stellate appearance is produced (fig. 271, b). Each cell contains a nucleus; and the ovum, Avith these radiating cells, presents a stellate appearance. The cells aftei’Avards become round, and disappear about the time * Muller’s Arcliiv., 1855. t Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. vii. No. 7, Nov. 23rd, 1854.