[chap. XXV. 236 DIGESTION. The mucous membrane of the caecum and of the whole large intestine is distinguished by the complete absence of villi; by the presence of Lieberkiihn’s follicles and of solitary glands of large size, which are numerous in the vermiform appendix, as well as in the coecum itself; and by the folds which form the partitions between the cells of the colon, as well as by the valvular folds of the rectum. Movements of the Intestines.—The substances which enter the intestinal canal from the stomach are moved onwards by means of what is called the peristaltic, or the vermicular action of its muscu- lar coat. This action of the intestines is very conspicuous in animals opened immediately after death; under these circumstances it is pro- bably in an exaggerated state owing to the stimulus created by the entrance of cold air into the abdomen. It may be displayed in a highly active state by subjecting the intestinal canal of an animal just dead to the influence of the magneto-electric machine, by the successive shocks of which this action becomes greatly increased in intensity and rapidity, though not altered in character. In dogs and cats, in which we have most frequently observed the peristaltic action, it seems to commence at the pyloric third of the stomach, whence successive waves of contraction and relaxation (the former being instantly succeeded by the latter) are propa- gated throughout the entire length of the small and large intes- tines. The advance of the waves is always downwards. In ex- amining a portion of intestine at the moment of its contraction, we perceive a dilatation above it as well as below it; the latter being produced by the protrusion into it of the contents of the now contracted portion of intestine; the former by the relaxation of a previously contracted portion. The rapid succession of these contractions and relaxations gives to the movements of the intestines the appearance of the writhings of a worm, whence they are dis- tinguished by the appellation vermicular. Sometimes we have opportunities of observing these movements during life in man, in cases of extreme attenuation of the abdominal parietes; or in cases where, from some great obstruction in the course of the alimentary canal, the peristaltic action is very much increased in intensity above the seat of the obstruction ; or in wounds of the abdomen ; or during surgical operations. There are certain facts which justify the supposition that this vermicular action has a proper rate of speed in each individual, and