379 CHAP, xxviir ] SUCTION POWEIl OF THE AURICLE. escape of blood tlirongli the arteries, and the lieart’s action is thereby much weakened and often depressed. Muscular movements likewise favour the venous circulation, as is well shown in the operation of venesection, when the patient is made to move his fingers freely, the flow of blood from the vein being thereby immediately increased. It is the action of the valves which determines the centripetal flow of the blood in the veins under muscular pressure, for as the contracting muscles simply compress the veins, the blood would be driven either or both ways ; but the valves affording a direct impediment to the cen- trifugal flow, it is forced to take the opposite course. This is obviously one of the ways in which exercise favours the circulation and promotes the general health. It has been supposed that the contraction of the auricles by par- tially emptying those cavities, calls into play an elastic force in their walls, which favours the rush of blood into them, and that thus a certain suction power of the auricle may be enumerated among the forces which aid the venous circulation. The idea is illustrated by exhausting an India-rubber bag, to which a glass tube is attached, and then immersing the open extremity of the latter, in a vessel of water, when the water will pass freely into it under the influence of the atmospheric pressure on the water. The principal fact in favour of this view is the experiment of Wedemeyer, which is thus detailed by Muller. “ Wedemeyer and Gruenther having tied the jugular vein of a horse, made an opening into it between the ligature and the heart, and introduced a catheter, to which a bent glass tube had been cemented. The longer descending branch of the tube (two feet in length) was placed in a glass filled with water. At first the inspirations and the contractions of the heart were nearly simultaneous, and of the same frequency,—namely, thirty in a minute,—and the coloured water rose suddenly two or more inches in the tube at the moment of each inspiration and pul- sation of the heart, and sank again each time to its former level. The inspirations gradually became twice as frequent as the pulsa- tions of the heart, and Wedemeyer and Guenther now observed, for a long period, that the rise of fluid did not take place at each inspiration, but at every beat of the heart, and, consequently, simultaneously with each dilatation of the auricle. This experi- ment,” adds Muller, “seems to prove beyond doubt that the heart exerts a power of suction.” It is most probable, however, that this power is extremely small, and that it does no more than counteract the obstructive influence which would otherwise arise 0 c 2