CHAP. XXXVII.] 543 UEETHRA. Fig. 259. supposed; the minute terminal vessels ultimately open into the venous spaces. The arrangement of the arteries in the corpus spongio- sum urethrie, is similar to that just described. Urethra.—The male urethra is the canal which extends from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis. It is about eight inches and a half in lengthy but varies slightly in different cases. The tube itself is lined with mucous membrane, and A small artery of the corpora cavernosa, . . ,1 giving off a lateral branch, from which proceed its diameter is not by any means helicine arteries, teiminating in very small , • • j 11 j. i. Ti. vessels, which are continned in the trabecular the same in its whole extent. its tissue, (a.) S. Wall of the arteries. After direction is that of a double curve, “ like the letter f. The walls of the urethra are strong, and com- posed principally of fibrous tissue, with a layer of unstriped mus- cular fibre, the arrangement of which has been web. described by Mr. Hancock. The urethra is divided, by descriptive anatomists, into three portions; the prostatic, being about twelve lines long; the viem- branous, about three-quarters of an inch in length in its upper part, but only half an inch in its lower portion; and the remainder, by far the most extensive portion of the canal, called the spongy por- tion, which reaches to the orifice. The prostatic portion of the urethra is its widest part, and lies imbedded in the upper part of the prostate, above its middle lobe. At the neck of the bladder, the mucous membrane forms a fold, called the uvula vesicce. Anterior to this is a narrow ridge, rising from the floor of the tube, about nine lines in length, and about one and a half lines in height in its highest part, called the veru- montanum, caput gallinaginis, or a'est of the urethra,* On each side of this, the mucous membrane forms a depression, the prostatic sinus, into which the ducts of the prostate gland open. At the highest part of the verumontanum is a little sinus, the vesicula prostatica. It is here that the ejaeulatory duets open. The membranous portion is that narrowest part of the urethra which lies beneath the pubis and passes through the layers of the triangular ligament. It is surrounded with muscular fibres, and the compressor urethrae muscle is situated upon this part of the tube; * Vide article “ Vesicula Pmstatica,” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Pliysiology, by Prof. Rud. Leuckart.