105 THE FACIAL NERVE. CHAP. XIX.] carotid artery, it forms a very celebrated anastomosis with the I sympathetic, by means of two large and distinct branches, and it j sometimes anastomoses with the nasal branch of the fifth. I Anatomy points to the function of this nerve as distinctly as it does to that of the fourth. The sixth nerve can have no other i office than that of regulating the movements of the abductor muscle ; of the eye. Experiment fully confirms this conclusion, and a few i‘ cases have been observed in which internal strabismus was found to accompany compression of the nerve by a tumor. Of the Facial Nerve.—{Portia dura of the seventh pair.)—This is one of the most interesting and remarkable of the motor nerves. t Its close proximity to the auditory nerve led Willis to class it along i with that nerve. The former nerve is soft in its structure, and its bundles loosely coherent; the latter is more compact, and sur- rounded by a neurilemma of sufficient density to give to it a power of resistance very superior to that of its neighbour. These two nerves lie in a fossa situate on either side of the medulla oblongata, and behind the posterior edge of the pons, bounded on the outside by a small lobule of the cerebellum, called the fiock by Reil, or the lobule of the vagus or of the auditory nerve ; the fioor of this fossa is formed by the restiform column. The portio dura nerve, which lies inside the portio mollis, penetrates the restiform column, and through it may be traced to the central part of the medulla oblongata, the olivary columns, where it con- nects itself with the vesicular matter. In examining the distribution of the facial nerve, it will be found convenient to divide it into three stages, and to enumerate its branches in each stage. The first stage is intracranial, from its origin to its exit at the internal auditory meatus. In this stage it forms a connexion with the auditory nerve by i\iQ portio intermedia of Wrisberg, an oblique branch of communication, which seems like a fasciculus of fibres passing off from the portio dura, and accompanying the auditory nerve into the labyrinth. This branch was described by Arnold and Gcedechens as a second root of the facial nerve, but inasmuch as it does not form a connexion with the centre, distinct from that which the principal fibres of the nerve have with it, this view is not tenable. Regarding the facial as a motor nerve, this branch may possibly bo viewed, as conveying motor influence to the muscular apparatus of the cochlea, which we have discovered. The second stage is contained in the aqueductus Fallopii. In its passage through this canal a gangliform swelling is formed on