MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. [cHAP. XXXVIT. 540 increase in the diameter of the canal when it was distended with secretion^ h. fig. 257. It passes behind the bladder, and terminates in one of the ejaculatory canals, a very short canal, which is formed by the union of the vas deferens with the corresponding vesicula seminalis, which is situated a little external to it, upon the posterior surface of the bladder. Vesiculce Seminales.—The vesiculse seminales are two sacculated receptacles, about two inches in length and about three-quarters of an inch in breadth, situated upon the posterior aspect of the bladder, lying between it and the rectum. They converge towards the point at which they open, and almost meet. The narrow terminal portion (duet) lies for a short distance, pre- vious to its opening in the urethra, surrounded by the prostate. Each vesicula may he unravelled, so as to form a caecal tube, with several diverticula projecting from it. It is very much convoluted, and the convolutions are connected together with areolar tissue, to which arrangement the sacculated appear- ance is due. The structure of the vesieulae seminales is very similar to that of the vasa deferen- tia, but their walls are much thinner. There is an outer coat, composed of areo- lar tissue, in which numerous muscular fibre cells are found. They are lined with a thin layer of tesselated epithelium. The vesiculse are usually found to con- tain a viscid, mucus-like substance, which may be regarded as their secretion; and which, no doubt, is of a nature favorable to maintain the vital activity of the sper- matozoa, and serves also to dilute the semen. These organs were formerly looked upon as the receptacles for the semen; hut a comparison of their arrangement, and an examination of their contents, in the lower vertehrata, by no means confirms this view, as our friend, Mr. Pittard, has re- marked. In the elephant, the vesiculse seminales open into the vasa deferentia, as hut seminal reservoirs are also found in this animal. In man, however, spermatozoa are very generally found in them; and it is probable that they serve partly as receptaeles for the semen. Vesicula seminalis, after E. IT. Weber. «. Ejaculatory duct. i.Vas deferens, c. Vesicula seminalis. (1. Terminal diverticula. in man: