CHAP. XXIV.] SOLUTION OF THE STOMACH AFTER DEATH. 199 h:ul been mechanically divided were most completely acted on ; the substances contained in halls with large holes were more completely acted on than those contained in halls with minute holes ; and, lastly, the various vegetable grains, as wheat, rye, barley, oats, and peas, ■were least of all altered, having only become moistened and swollen, while hone underwent no change. Dr. Stevens also introduced leeches and earthworms in his per- forated spheres, and found that even these animals, though intro- duced liviiiQ-, were dissolved as inanimate matters.* John Hunter made some observations which furnished an inter- esting proof of the existence of a solvent gastric fluid. He was struck with the condition of the stomach in two cases of sudden and violent death. A man had his skull fractured by a single blow of a poker; just before the accident he was in perfect health, and had taken a hearty supper. Upon opening the abdomen, he found that the stomach, though it still contained a good deal, was dissolved at its great end, and a considerable part of its contents lay loose in the general cavity of the belly; a circumstance, he adds, which puzzled him very much. The second instance was in a man who died at St. George’s Hospital a few hours after receiving a blow on his head which fractured his skull. In both these cases the solution was at the splenic end of the stomach; the edges of the opening and the mucous membrane for some distance within were half dis- solved, “ very much,” says Hunter, “ like that kind of digestion which fleshy parts undergo when half digested in a living sto- mach, or when acted upon by a caustic alkali, viz. pulpy, tender, ragged.” “ In these cases,” Mr. Hunter adds, “ the contents of the stomach are generally found loose in the cavity of the abdomen about the spleen and diaphragm; and in many subjects the influence of this digestive power extends much farther than through the stomach. I have often found, that, after the stomach had been dissolved at the usual place, its contents let loose had come into contact with the S])leen and diaphragm, had dissolved the diaphragm quite through, and had partly atfected the adjacent side of the spleen ; so that Avhat had been contained in the stomach was found in the cavity of the thorax, and had even affected the lungs to a small degree.” “ There are very few dead bodies in which the stomach at its great end is not in some degree digested ; and one who is acquainted with dissection can easily trace these gradations. To be sensible of * De Alimentoniin Concoctione, Edin. 1777, (in Smellic’s Tlies. Med.)