330 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviu. y supplied blood. The microscope has settled this question in the affirmative, for most of the tissues and organs of the body; but it may still be doubted whether the finest capillaries of the liver have walls distinct from those cubical masses of epithelium which they permeate. Although it is the rule that an intermediate system of vessels exists betw'een the arteries and veins, we find two remarkable exceptions to it. One is in the erectile tissue of the. penis; the other in the uterine circulation. In both these instances the arteries communicate directly with the veins. In the penis the ramifications of the arte- ries pour their blood into the cells of the corpora cavernosa ; in the uterus the small curling arteries of Hunter open directly into large venous sinuses, which in the gravid uterus form an intimate relation of contact with the villous processes of the placenta. These points will be fully described in the chapter on Generation. It is not improbable that further research may detect a direct communication between arteries and veins, even in tissues, the greatest part of which is furnished with a true capillary plexus. In the cancellated structure of bone and the diploe of the cranial bones, it seems highly probable that the arteries communicate immediately Avith the veins at many points. Mr. Paget* describes a direct communication between the arteries and veins of the wing of the bat, without any intermediate capillary plexus.*f* * Lectures on Inflammation. t Tlic communication between arteries and veins by capillaries AA'as not known to Harvey. In bis time, and for a long period afterwards, anatomists supposed the blood to pass into the parenchyma of the tissues, rvhence it was received or with- drawn by the veins. Malpighi (about 1687), by microscopie examination, first demonstrated the intermediate capillary system in the lungs and urinary bladder of the frog. Leuwenhoek afterwards (1729) pursued this investigation, and has given some good illustrations of the capillaries examined in transparent parts during life. Dr. Hales in this country, many years later (1769), gave a very accurate descrip- tion of these vessels, and denied altogether the idea of the intervention of a paren- chyma, or, in his own words, of “glandular cavities.” See his Haemastaticks, p. 146, § 9, vol. ii. W. Cowper, the distinguished myotomist, also made observa- tions on the capillaries of the transparent parts of warm-blooded animals, as the mesentery of a dog, and the omentum of a cat. Haller threw great light upon this subject, and by his facts and arguments settled the question as to the direct continuity of arteries and veins. Subsequently (1745), Lieberkuhn advanced our knowledge of tbe capillaries by bis numerous injections, most of wbich arc still extant at Vienna. In more recent times the distinguished Prochaska seems to have been the first to form a just appreciation of the extent of the capillaries, and of their exact relations to the elements of the tissues. His description of the disposition of these vessels, based upon tbe examination of Lieberkiibn’s and his own injections, can scarcely be surpassed in the present day. Sec the 9th chapter {de vasis saguin. capillar.) of bis Disquisitio Anat.-Phys. Organismi Corporis Hum. ejusque Proccs.sus