522 THYMUS. [chap. XXXV. Fiy.lhl. of the gland contains gi’anular matter^ with numerous nuclei dispersed through it. In a thin section^ the outline of the cavities can be readily seen; they vary from the l-50th to the l-18th of an inch in diametei’, and contain numerous granular and nearly spherical nuclei, which are, for the most part, about 1-4000 th of an inch in diameter, hut vary considerably in size. Dr. Handheld Jones observes, that before any appearance of atrophy has taken place, these elements are alone found, and there is an entire ab- sence of oil particles, and granular material. The nuclei seem to hll the ultimate vesicles completely. Uses of the Thymus.—Mr. Simon regards the secretion of the thymus as allied to proteine, and of a nutri- tious nature. In the human foetus, the thymus cannot be detected before the ninth week, and its functional activity is greatest in the early period of hfe, before the muscular sj'^stem is in a very active state; for when the muscles become more fully active, a. Binary and quaternary division of sim- ,, ,, j . i pie follicles, b. Unusual appearance, in tllC tliymUS appeal’s UOt tO DC re- wind! the follicles must have increased con- • j tx x i • i siderahly in lengtii before undergoing diri- (JUirCCl. J.t SCemS COnueCtCd With sion. 1-roin tile foetal lamb. ,, j. xx c. Mature structure of thymus, showing the tllC preparation 01 matter 101’ the arrangement of the vesicles belonging to one , • , i xx /> cone. d. Tube of gland. After Simon. pulmOUai’y Ol’gaUS iu tllC age of early growth.’^ Arguing from these and many other facts, Mr. Simon looks upon the thymus as acting “ as a sinking fund in the service of respiration.^^ From the twentieth to the twenty-fifth year it diminishes rapidly in size, until no trace of it can be detected in the areolar tissue of the mediastinum. In hybernating animals, prevdous to the commence- ment of the winter sleep, the thymus becomes gorged with fat, which is slowly consumed during the period of hybernation. It has been remarked, that the use of the thymus at the different periods of active growth and hybernation is distinct. In the latter case, it doubtless supplies hydro-carbonaceous matter for respira- tion ; but its office, during the former period, appears rather to be that of elaborating fibrine from albumen and other substances by the action of its numerous nuclei. As the absorbent and other glands connected with the vascular system become developed, there seems no longer any need of a special organ for this pur-