589 CHAP.XLI.] BRANCHIAL FISSURES AND ARCHES. Von Baer. Reichert, however, considers that it is formed in a somewhat different manner to that above described.* In mammalia, the formation of the amnion occurs at a very early period, usually within twenty-four hours after the first appearance of the primitive trace. About the twentieth day the ovum is about ten, and the embryo is between three and four lines in length. The villi of the chorion are beginning to make their appearance, and gradually extend themselves round the ovum. That portion, however, which is im- mediately beneath the embryo is the last part of the surface upon which villi appear, while the two ends of the ovum always remain smooth and uncovered with villi. By this time, Avith the exception of their posterior portion, the laminae dorsales have coalesced, and the vertebral plates have increased in number. The position of the eye and ear can be determined, and the anterior surface of the body is being gradually closed in by the convergence of the ventral lamince which spring from the under part of the dorsal laminae. At length the body of the embryo appears entirely pinched oflF as it were, and is only connected with the yolk sac or umbilical vesicle by a narrow constricted portion, the omphalo-enteric duct. Branchial Fissures and Arches.—At this period, three branchial fissures and three visceral arches may be detected. The term branchial arch is a bad one, since it conveys the idea that, at a certain period, branchiae are de- veloped in the higher vertebrata, which is not the case. The only structures representing the branchial vessels of fishes are branches which unite to form the descending aorta. In fishes, the arches become permanent, and are sur- mounted by branchial laminae. They are five in number; at a very early period there are six, but one is not further developed. In the amphibia a similar process takes place, but here the branchiae waste away Avheu the animal assumes its adult form. Usually only tAvo, very rarely four, arches remain in reptiles; and in birds, mammalia, and man, only one is persistent. Heart and large Arteries.—About this time also the heart and large vessels are formed. The heart appears first in the form of a narroAV elongated * Miiller’s Physiology, translated by Dr. Baly, p.l652. Hg. 281. Visceral or branchial arches of an embryo dog, after Bischoff. a. bruin; ft. eyes j c. d. riglit and left auricles; e. f. right and left ventricles; p. aorta dividing into aortic arches. 1, 2, 3, 4, corresponding visceral or branchial arches.