[chap. XVIII. 80 INNERVATION. Thus the cochlear muscle is broad at its origin from the groove of bone, and slopes above and below to the thin margin in which it terminates, so that its section is triangular, and it presents three surfaces, one towards the groove of bone, and one to each of the scala3. The surface towards the vestibular scala is much wider than that towards the tympanic scala, and presents, in a band running parallel to and at a short distance from the margin of the mem- branous zone, a series of arched vertical pillars, with intervening recesses, much resembling the arrangement of the musculi pectinati of the heart (fig. 140, c). These lead to and terminate in the outer clear belt of the membranous zone, which forms a kind of tendon to the muscle. This entire arrangement is almost sufficient of itself to determine the muscular nature of the structure. If its fibres were of the striped variety no doubt would remain; but its mass, evi- dently fibrous, is loaded with nuclei, and filled with capillaries, fol- lowing the direction of the fibres, and in almost all respects it has the closest similarity to the ciliary muscle of the eye. The nuclei diminish in number as the fibres end in the tendinous part; and they are made much more evident by the addition of acetic acid. The action of the muscle must be that of making tense the membranous portion of the lamina spiralis, and so perhaps of adjusting it to the modifications of sound. As the ciliary muscle, though of the un- striped variety, adjusts the ti'ansparent media of the eye to distinct vision at different distances under the guidance of the will, so it is not impossible that the cochlear muscle may have a voluntary ad- justing power, though its j^recise mode of action as a part of an acoustic apparatus may still remain obscure. On the whole, how- ever, we are more disposed to regard this very interesting structure as having a preservative office, as being placed there to defend the cochlear nerves from undue vibrations of sound, in a way analogous to that in which the iris protects the retina from excessive light. These nerves are acted on principally by vibrations brought through the osseous part of the cochlea and it is probable that the arrange- ment of the scalje is one designed to allow of protective movements of the lamina spiralis by muscular action, under a stimulus reflected from impressions on the auditory nerve. The capillaries of the ciliary muscle are derived from vessels meandering over the walls of the seal as before entering it, and those from above and below do not anastomose across the line of attachment of the membranous zone, thus indicating that the con- tinuation of this zone enters as a plane of tendon into the interior of the muscle, dividing it into two parts, and receiving the fibres in . succession.