ALLANTOIS. CHAP. XLlll.] 621 tlie late Mr. Dalrymple, who has made some very successful injections of the allantois of the chick. On the outer surface—that which is in immediate contact with the membrane of the shell—the capillaries are exceedingly abundant, and very minute. Mr. Dal- rymple compares their arrangement to that of the vessels in the air-cells of the lung of reptiles — a resemblance of great interest, when we consider that in the bird this membrane per- forms a most important part in aerat- ing the blood; indeed, it is through the intervention of the allantois, that all the respiratory changes taking place in the chick are carried on. The air passes through the pores in the shell and membrane beneath, and thus is brought into contact with the blood ramifying in the vessels of the allan- tois. The allantois, as was shown by Kei- chert and others, is connected with the efferent ducts of the Wolffian bo- dies, and receives the secretion from these glands. In the liiiman subject, soon after its formation, a dilatation is observed in that part of tbe allan- tois nearest tbe foetus. This is tbe rudiment of tbe urinary blad- der. Just at tbe junction between tbe vesicular portion and tbe straight tube which passes from this point to the chorion, a folding or constriction occurs. This indi- cates the first formation of the Fig. 292. urachus, which has been erro- neously considered to be situated in that part between the vesi- cle and the foetus. This latter portion however soon becomes di- vided into two tubes, one being connected with each Wolffian body. These tubes are ultimately con- Diagrams to show the arrangement of the allan- tois, and the formation of the placenta in different classes of animals:— a. A portion of the wall of the uterus. 6. Chorion, c. Allantois, d. Umbilical vesicle, e. Amnion. A. In ruminants. Tlie cotyledons, spread out over the internal surface of the uterus, fit into cup-shaped cavities formed by the altered chorion. The allantois is of a very large size, and entirely .surrounds the embryo. II. In the feras (cat, etc.), the placenta forins a zone which surrounds the embryo like a ring. There are no cotyledons. c. In rodentia and in tlie human subject. The placenta is limited to one particular part of the ciiorlon. Tlie allantois is very .small, and only (listinguislicd at a very early stage.