594 DEVELOPMENT [cHAP. XLi. Tlie umbilical vesicle, about four or five lines in diameter, dimin- ishes considerably in size during the third month. The viscid albuminous material between the chorion and amnion gradually becomes absorbed, in consequence of which these two membranes approach each other, and almost come into contact, but they still remain separated by a thin membrane, the tunica media of Bischoff. The villi of the chorion increase very much in that portion of its surface situated over the allantois, where the placenta is to be formed. They are not absorbed from other parts, but the interspaces between them gradually become much greater; and as the ovum increases in size, the tufts appear to be almost limited to the position of the placenta, although, with care, they may be seen in other parts of the surface. The cord gradually increases in length, and the quantity of liquor amnii, in which the ovum floats, becomes greater. Ossification commences towards the end of the second month, when the foetus is about an inch in length. The septum of the heart begins to be formed, and the aortic arches diminish in num- ber to two, which unite behind to form the descending aorta. One of these arehes becomes the pulmonary artery. The development of the kidneys, ovaries, testes, and external generative organs com-, mences. The bladder is formed somewhat later by the pinching off of a portion of the urachus, a narrow tube, which is all that remains of the allantois. The cavities of the mouth and nose are not yet separate; but the divisions between the fingers and toes are commencing to be marked. During the third month, the embryo increases from one inch to about two and a half or three inches in length. In the fourth, it increases another inch; but during the fifth month it grows so rapidly as to attain the length of twelve inches. Fat is formed about this time, and the nails are developed. The first movements of the foetus felt by the mother, and termed quickening, usually take plaee between the fourth and fifth month. The whole surface is covered with lanugo or soft down. The very slow growth of the foetus during the time when the organs are being evolved, and it is assuming its distinctive characters, contrasts very remark- ably with its rapid increase in size as soon as the various orgaus have attained a definite form. The process of evolution is a com- plicated one, and obviously requires much time for tlie occurrence of the necessary transitional changes. The process of growth is a simple one, and consists merely of the appropriation of new material