484 KIDNEY. [chap, xxxiv. only 14’39 per cent, of solid matter was present, so that in this instance the increased weight of the organ was undoubtedly due to a larger proportion of water than occurs in health, rather than to the deposition of any adventitious tissue, or to an increase of the normal gland-textures. Surface of the Kidney.—The kidney is immediately invested with a firm fibrous coat, called the capsule, wdiich is composed of con- densed areolar tissue, and is continuous with the tissue consti- tuting the matrix of the kidney, in the meshes of which the tubes ramify: some small vessels also connect the capsule of the kidney with the proper gland-structure. At the hilum, the capsule is con- tinuous with the external or fibrous coat of the pelvis of the kidney and the fibrous coat of the ureter. The vessels also receive an investment from it at this point. If the sm’face of the kidney be carefully examined, it is seen to be imperfectly mapped out into a number of small polyhedi’al spaces or lobules, in general appearance somewhat resembling the markings of the lobules of the liver. These markings are in part due to the arrangement of small branches of the veins which are spoken of, by anatomists, as the stellate veins. Commencing at the surface of the kidney, they penetrate the cortical part in a vertical direction, at nearly equal distances, and receive, in their course to the hilum, the blood from the venous plexuses surrounding the secreting tubes. In the spaces just described, may be seen the convolu- tions of some of the uriniferous tubes. No arteries reach the sm’face. Ferrein supposed that the tubes formed little pyramids, each of which radiated from the medullary towards the cortical part of the kidney, the base of each pyramid consisting of one of these spaces or lobules. It appears, hoAvever, that although each pyramid contains many tortuous tubes, with their capillaries, the convolu- tions of a single tube are by no means confined to one pyramidal space. Besides the apparent divisions into lobules just referred to, the surface of the kidney bears the vestiges of several fissures, marking it out into lobes which may be seven or eight or more in number; these lobes indicate the original condition of the kidney in intra-uterine life when they were separated from each other, and formed distinct renules. In the embryos of mammalia generally, the same arrangement is observed; and it remains permanent in the cetacea. In the kidney of the otter, seal, ox, and some other