CHAP. XXXIV.J 487 MALPIGHIAN BODIES. mammalia, and are often They are, for the most part, of a spherieal, oval, or flask-like form. A small artery affei'ent ves- sel may be seen to enter the tuft, and a minute venous radiele efferent vessel to emerge from it in close proximity to the artery (Fig. 231). The INIalpighian body itself consists of a rounded bunch of capillaries de- rived from the afferent and terminating in the efferent vessel, the former dividing over the surface, the latter emerging from the interior. This vascular tuft lies within a clear and perfectly transparent capsule, lined at its lower part with epithelium. Th e epithelium, which is con- tinued upwards from the uriniferous tube into its flask-bke dilatation, can- not usually be traced for more than about one- larger towards the base of the cones. Fig. 231. From the human subject. This specimen exhibits the ter- mination of a considerable arterial branch wholly in Malphi- ghian tufts, a. Arterial branch, with its terminal twigs. At a, the injection has only partially filled the tuft. At ^ it has entirely tilled it, and has also passed out along the efferent vessel e/>vithout any extravasation. At y it has burst into the capsule, and escaped along the tube t, but has also filled the efferent vessel e /. At 5 and e it has extravasated, and passed along the tube. At m and m the injection, on escaping into the capsule, has not spread over the whole tuft. Magnified third of the length of the capsule (Fig. 3, p. 65, Vol. I.); but in the proteus (Fig. 232), the capsule is seen to be entirely lined with an exceedingly thin layer of delicate epithelium, the cells of which are of an oval, or poly- hedral form, with a very large granular nucleus, and about the of an inch in diameter. The capsule itself consists of hyaloid membrane, which is directly continuous with the basement mem- brane of the convoluted portion of the tube. In fact, each urini- ferous tubule terminates by a dilatation which embraces the vessels of the tuft, and is intimately united to them at the point where they enter and emerge. The continuity of the tube with the Malpighian capsule has