CHAP. XXV. DIGESTION. 222 out tlieir secretions on its surface. It may further be observed, that as the several portions, wbether of small or large intestine, have very definite characters as regards the mucous membrane, we can readily determine the relative length and developement of each portion, and thus deduce its proper degree of importance in intestinal digestion. But upon these points it is much to he regretted that we are greatly in want of precise information ; we are persuaded that nothing would tend more to the correct determination of the office performed by each portion of the intestinal canal than a series of careful observations with special reference to anato- mical characters on the intestines of a great number of animals. Much importance is attached by Physiologists, and apparently with good reason, to the size and form of the coecum. It is difficult, however, and in the present state of our knowledge impossible to determine the law which influences its de- velopement. Nevertheless, it may be stated that there apjiears to be a direct relation between this developement of the intestine and the hardness of digestion of the food: in some instances we find that a large coecum compensates for a less capa- cious stomach, as in the Solipeds, and in these cases there exists even a striking similarity in the forms of these two organs. A large coecum, then, belongs to the herbivorous classes, as a large stomach does, and a small coecum would, on the other hand, indicate a diet of animal food. Anatomy would seem to point to the conclusion that the function of the coecum is not dissimilar to that of the stomach, and that in it substances hard of digestion arc subjected a second time to a reducing action resembling that of the stomach. Perhaps the anomaly which we have noticed in the dormouse, in the absence of a coecum, may be explained on the supposition that this accessory digestive cavity was rendered unnecessary in consequence of the existence of the glandular pouch at the cardiac orifice of the stomach in that animal. The subdivision of the intestinal canal in man into the small and large intestine by the difference in calibre of those two portions of that tube as well as by the existence of an ileo-ccecal valve, has already been described. There are other characteristics, however, of anatomical constitution which likewise sufficiently distinguish them. The whole of the intestinal tube is composed of certain tunics which, enumerated from within outwards, are as follows;— 1st, the mucous membrane : 2ndly, the submucous tissue ; 3rdly, the muscular coat; 4thly, the serous coat, which is connected to the tunic last named by a thin layer of very delicate areolar tissue. Of these tunics the mucous membrane, the muscular coat and the serous coat, exhibit, on the whole, very distinctive characters in the two divisions of the intestine. The mucous membrane continuous with that of the stomach exhibits very characteristic features in the different portions of the intestine. We shall reserve the description of it until we have spoken of the other tunics. The submucous tunic is a layer of very fine areolar tissue, which connects the mucous to the muscular coat; it is entirely devoid of