414 RESPIRATION. [chap. XXIX. Some very aceurate experiments upon this subject have been made by M. Barral upon himself during summer and winter. The great difference noticed in the quantity of carbon exhaled at dif- ferent periods of the year may, to some extent, explain the dis- crepancies in the results of various observers— Li Summer 111 Winter. Weight of body, lbs. .... 104-5 » Carbon In food, grs. 5654-1 4090-0 Carbon excreted. In fiBces. In Urine. Exhaled, gi-s. grs. grs. 236-2 234-6 5183-3 137-4 211-5 3741-1 About 10'8 oz. troy of carbon, therefore, passed off daily in the form of carbonic acid in winter, and 7'8 oz. in summer. The amount of carbon eliminated by respiration will also be influenced by the quantity and nature of the food, and by other cu-cumstances, which have been previously adverted to. Theory of Respiration.—By the interchange of gases in the lungs^ the venous blood becomes of the bright scarlet colour characteristic of arterial blood. The oxygen and carbonic acid both permeate the delicate, moist, limitary membrane of the air-cells at the same time, but in opposite directions. The oxygen, having passed through the capillary walls, is held in solution in the blood; a small part entering into chemical combination ivith the contents of the blood corpuscle, and to a less degree Avith some of the constituents of the semm. A portion of the oxygen not improbably acts directly upon cer- tain substances contained in the circulating blood, and contributes to the formation of carbonic acid. In this way some of the ele- ments of the food lately introduced into the blood may become decomposed, and their carbon removed in the form of carbonic acid. The greater portion of the oxygen is no doubt carried to the capillaries, and much of it then leaving the blood, and passing through the capillary walls, becomes dissolved by the intercellular fluid, in obedience to the same physical laws by Avhich it was absorbed. At the same time, the carbonic acid formed in the interstices of the tissues, and dissolved by the fluid which moistens their ultimate elements, leaves this latter to enter the blood, from which the oxygen has just been removed, and causes it to assume the colour of venous blood. Here, then, are two sources of carbonic acid—one resulting from the action of the oxygen upon certain elements recently introduced in the food, giving rise to the production of a certain amount of