CHAP, xviii.^ SAVART S EXPERIMENTS. of the excursions of its vibrations. The contraction of the stapedius muscle causes the base of the stapes to compress the memhiane of the fenestra ovalis to a greater or less extent, so that the degree of ten- sion of that membrane depends on the condition of this muscle. Com- pression exerted upon the membrane of the fenestra ovalis extends to the perilymph and through it is propagated to the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, and in this way the same apparatus which regulates the tension of the membrane of the fenestra ovalis performs that office for that of the fenestra rotunda, and Savart has devised an apparatus which very prettily illustrates the manner in which this may take place. In a disc of wood (a, i, fig. 148) of sufficient thickness, he hollows out two cavities, 0 and r, which communicate at their bot- toms with each other by a narrow canal (c) hollowed in the wood, but not open on its surface ; a thin membrane is extended over each of the cavities. Thus, the air con- tained in these cavities may pass easily from one to the other, and may always maintain the same degree of elastic tension in both. If a vibrating glass be brought near the membrane r, covered with a layer of sand, it will be found to enter freely into vibration, as evinced by the active movements of the grains of sand. If, now, pressure be made on o with the finger, r will become convex in proportion as o is rendered concave by the pressure, and when in this convex state, the move- ments of the sand upon it will be much less considerable than before, presenting an effect precisely similar to that produced on the tympanic membrane by an increase of tension. Thus, the extent of the excursions of the vibrations of the membrane r, is limited by the pressure exerted upon o, and as the membranes of the two fenes- tra) are related to each other in an analogous mannei*, we may argue that pressure upon the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, will occasion tension of that of the fenestra rotunda, thereby limiting the extent of the excursions of its vibrations. Moreover it appears, upon reference to the anatomy of these parts, that the only muscles which have been satisfactorily demon- strated are tensors of the tympanum; and that at whichever extre- mity of the chain of ossicles muscular effort be first exerted, a corre- sponding effect will be produced at the other; that when the stapedius muscle acts, the malleus is thrown into a position favourable to the * All these experiments have been frequently repeated and exhibited by us, with the same results as those stated in the text.