THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. 356 wards or towards the heart. It is by reason of the existence of such an apparatus at the mouth of the aorta that the elastic coat of tlie arteries by its reaction propels the blood. But the muscular coat would not contract simultaneously at all points as the elastic coat does. It would, as in the oesophagus and intestines, act in successive portions—and the artery would, as in those tubes, he almost or altogether obliterated at the point of contraction. It is easy, however, to show that no such vermicular action takes place in the arteries, nor can it occur in tubes which, like them, are always and at all points filled. It seems most probable that the contractile power of the arteries exercises a regulating influence upon the flow of blood through them. Its influence in this respect has long been recognized by practical men, under the name of tone or tonic power. It restrains within due bounds the distension of the arteries, limits the quantity of blood in each artery, adapts the size of the artery to the volume of its contents, and offers a certain amount of opposition or antagonism to the force of the heart. It is owing to the resistance afforded by this contractile power of arteries to the passage of fluid into them, that the anatomist will fail to inject a tissue completely, if he attempt it too soon after death. The well known experiment of John Hunter, on the pla- centa, shows how long the contractile power will remain in the arteries of a part after its separation from the system, or after death. In a woman delivered on Thursday, the navel string was separated from the foetus in the usual way, by tying the cord in two places, and dividing it between them—thus the blood was retained in the vessels of the cord and placenta. On the Friday morning, a ligature was placed an inch below the lowest of those ligatures, and that inch was cut off. The blood immediately gushed out, and, on watching the cut ends of the vessels, Hunter observed the arteries contracting with the whole of their elastic power, which took place immediately. The next morning (Saturday), on examining the mouths of these arteries, they were found quite closed up, so that in twenty-four hours the muscular coat had contracted to such a degree as to close up the area of the artery. On Saturday morning the experiment of Friday was repeated with another inch of the cord, with precisely the same results, but after its repetition on the Sunday, it was found on the Monday that the mouths of the arteries remained open, their muscular coat having by that time lost its contractility."^^ * Hunter, loc. cit. p. 116. The muscular fibres of the arteries of a part recently