CHAP. XVIII.] HEARING. 89 form, Vcirylng' from wlmt a,ppen,rs to be little more tlimi £i mere ciir- tilaginous lamella with a few irregularities upon its surface, enjoy- ing scai’cely any motion, to an elongated, funnel-shaped eai-trumpet, very moveable, and completely under the control of numerous large muscles. Man and the quadrumana are at one extremity of this scale; the solipeds, the ruminants, and the bats at the other. That the auricle performs the office of an acoustic instrument I to collect and reinforce the sounds which fall upon it, cannot be ' doubted in those cases in which it is large and fully developed, as in the horse, ass, &c. These animals employ it as we might expect such an instrument would be used; the open part is directed towards the quarter whence the sound comes, and continues so directed as long as the animal appears to listen. Savart’s experiments illustrate the manner in which an instru- ‘ ment like the external ear may contribute to the propagation of sound to the internal ear. When a thin membrane is stretched in a horizontal direction over the niouth of a glass or other hollow vessel, it may be made to vibrate by holding near it a glass thrown into vibration by passing a violin bow across it. The vibrations of the paper are easily demonstrated by the movements of particles of fine sand, or lycopodium powder strewed upon it. The sand arranges itself into certain very definite figures, the shape of which is determined by the position of the lines of repose, or nodal lines, over which the sand accumulates. These phenomena may be shewn in the membrana tympani itself, by scattering a little sand upon it, the osseous meatus having been jDreviously cut away. When the vibrating glass is brought near to it, the movement of the particles of sand affords sufficient evidence of the vibration excited in the tympanic membrane, but owing to the slight extent of the mem- brane it is impossible to determine the existence of any nodal line. Savart imitated the tympanic membrane, and the external audi- tory apparatus by a hollow cone of paste-board; across the nar- row extremity some thin paper was stretched. When the vibrating glass was brought near to the narrow end, movements of a slight kind were exeited in the paper, but when the glass was brought to the wide extremity of the cone, much more extensive movements were excited in the paper; although now the glass was much more distant from the paper than previously. This result might have been due chiefly to one of two causes, namely, either to the concentration of the sonorous undulations by the walls of the cone, or to the excitation of vibrations in the walls of the tube, which would be propagated directly to the paper ; and