CHAP. XXV.] THE INTESTINAL CANAL IN VERTEBRATA. 221 tlie coecuin is of small dimensions. The whole large intestine is cellulated, the colls being formed by longitudinal fibres and circular constricting ones. ■ In the genus Mj/oxus (dormouse), the coecum is entirely absent, the only exceiJ- tion, according to Meckel, to the presence of this cavity in the rodent order. In the Mursupiate animals, the distinction between large and small intestine is clearly marked by the presence of a coecum. The small intestine is long, and in some very wide; the coecum is of moderate length and width, its capacity being much below that of the stomach. The chief peculiarity of the intestinal canal in the Movoiremata is to be found at its inferior extremity, where a cloaca exists common to the rectum with the urino-genital organs. A small coecum separates the long and small intestine. The Cetaceous mammalia have an intestinal canal of considerable length. The length of the canal in the zoophagous cetacea is to that of the body as eleven or twelve to one. (Meckel.) Aceording to Cuvier, the proper whales have no division between large and small intestine, and consequently no coecum. This is the case in the porpoise. In the Balcena Roslrata, however, according to Hunter, and in all the Balcence, according to Cuvier, a small coecum, not unlike that of carnivora, exists. In the herbivorous cetacea the intestinal canal is of proportionally greater length than in the zoophagous cetacea. In the dugong, according to Meckel, its length exceeds forty times, and in the lamantin of Kamschatka, twenty times that of the body. The Quadrumana. The length of the intestinal canal in this large order of Mammifers presents very remarkable variety, which is the more curious as the nature of the food is, with few exceptions, similar in the various genera. The pro- portion of the length of the intestinal canal to that of the body is in some as eight to one, whilst in others it is only as three to one.* The division into two portions is effected in the same manner as in the human subject, and the general arrange- ment of both small and large intestine is very similar to those of man. A coecum exists in all the genera, but presents considerable variety as to length ; an increased length of this portion of intestine along with a larger developement of the splenic extremity of the stomach being employed in some cases to compensate for a defi- ciency in the length of the intestinal canal. I’he orangs and gibbons have the peculiarity, which they alone possess in common with man, of a process from the coecum, some inches in length, denominated the vermiform appendix. From the preceding brief review of the anatomical characters of the intestinal canal in the vertebrate classes, we gather, that this portion of the digestive tube diminishes in complexity as we descend from mammalia to fishes ; that a short and simple intestinal canal is generally co-existent with a diet of animal food ; and on the other hand, that a diet of vegetable food, or a conjoint animal and vegetable diet requires greater length and greater complexity in the form and structure of the intestines. In estimating the length of the intestinal canal we must not confine our examination to a mere external measurement, as we should thereby be led to a very erroneous conclusion. Deficiency in length, as measured on the exterior of tlie intestine, may be supplied by increased width—by a more highly-developed state of the villi of the mucous membrane—by numerous folds of that membrane, and the energy of the action of the mucous membrane on the contents of the intes- tine may be augmented by the greater number and size of the glands which pour * Vide a table in Meckel’s Anat. Comp. (French Ed.) tom. viii. p. 778.