[chap. XXV. 228 DIGESTION. the same elements exist in both, basement membrane, epithelium, sub-basement tissue, which occupies, along with vessels and perhaps A. B. A. Villi of duodenum of dog, two hours after death, showing the substance of the villus retracted from the epithelial invest- ment, like a finger from a glove. The process of digestion was not going on at the time of the dog’s death, as there was no food in the stomach nor chyle in the lacteals. Magnified 80 diameters. B. From the same part, and same dog, showing the epithe- lium corrugated, being attached and free at intervals. Magni- fied 80 diameters. Fig. IfiO. A. B. A. From the same part of another dog, fed hours before death, showing the columnar epithelium stripped off, and the cellular substance of the villus covered merely by basement membrane. Magnified 200 diameters, a. Basement mem- brane, slightly raised, b. Cellular substance of the villus, disposed somewhat in columns. n. From the same part and same dog, showing villus de- nuded of epithelium, and the basement membrane raised in a bulla by the endosmosis of water, in which it was immersed. Magnified 200 diameters, a. Basement membrane, b. Cel- lular substance of the villus. nerves, the interior of the villus. The tlilFerence be- tween the two structures is that the epithelium is in the interior of the fol- licle and on the exterior of the villus. A single layer of the co- lumnar epithelium covers each villus (fig. 159). The particles adhere by their sharp extremities to the basement membrane, and their bases, packed together, present on the surface an appearance of a pavement. The basement mem- brane is readily seen when the epithelial layer falls oflf, which it is apt to do during the digestive pro- cess (fig. 160). It is a single layer of homoge- neous membrane, beneath which, or in the cavity of the villus, are seen, in well-injected specimens, the blood-vessels of the villus. Each villus is provided with a plexus of capil- laries. A single artery enters its base, and, pass- ing up its centre, forth- with breaks up into a capillary plexus, which is seen at all points of the surface of the villus, im- mediately beneath the