248 DIGESTION. CHAl*. XXV describes two kinds of fluid, the first being the normal, or that obtained under the best conditions, the second, the morlid, or that obtained after inflammation has commenced in the wound and in the pancreas. The normal pancreatic fluid is a colourless, limpid fluid, viscid and gluey, flowing slowly by large pearly or syrupy drops, and becoming frothy on agitation. It has no characteristic odour—it has a slightly saltish taste resembling that of the serum of the blood. Bernard has always found it alkaline in reaction—never either acid or neutral. It coagulates by heat as completely as white of egg, becoming completely solid, and not leaving a drop of fluid. The mineral acids, likewise, cause it to coagulate, as also the metallic salts, alcohol, and pyroxylic spirit. It is not coagu- lated by dilute acetic, lactic, or hydi-ochloric acids. Alkalies cause no precipitate in it, but redissolve that thrown down by heat, acids, or alcohol. This constituent of the pancreatic fluid, which is coagulable by heat, &c., although apparently identical with albumen, is not so: it differs from albumen in the following point. When the coagulum obtained from the pancreatic fluid by alcohol is dried, it can be redissolved completely and readily in water, and it gives to the water the peculiar viscidity of the pancreatic juice, and likewise its physiological properties, whilst albumen treated in the same way, undergoes scarcely any appreciable solution in water. At a high temperature the pancreatic juice rapidly changes, is decomposed, and loses its property of coagulating by heat. At a low temperature it may be preserved for many days—when its viscidity increases and it becomes of the consistence of a weak jelly. Bernard has examined the pancreatic juice in rabbits, horses, and birds, and has found it in all to exhibit the same essential character as in dogs. We have already stated that the pancreatic fluid, or a jn'ece of the pancreas itself, is capable of promoting the transformation of starch into sugar, and therefore of promoting the digestion of amylaceous matters. But that this power does not belong exclu- sively to the pancreatic fluid is evident from the fact that other fluids or animal substances are capable of producing similar trans- formations. Bernard has shown by direct experiment that the pan- creatic fluid possesses the peculiar property, which is not enjoyed by any other animal fluid, of modifying in a special manner or digesting all the neutral fatty matters which are met with in food. Thus by mixing fresh pancreatic juice, possessing the normal