INNERVATION. 16 CHAP. XVII. anterior portion, formed by the cornea, is a part of a smaller sphere than the rest, and is therefore slightly protuberant. Hence the an- tero-posterior axis of the eye is longer than the transverse, in the proportion of twenty to nineteen. In terrestrial quadrupeds its shape is for the most part nearly similar. In ani- mals that inhabit the water, as Cetaeea and fishes, the eye is eonsiderably flattened in front; so that, in some fishes, it is almost a half-sphere. In birds, on the con- •' trary, especially those which fly high, the cornea is very prominent compared ivith the rest of the eye, which is of a more or less flattened form. These differences i have an evident reference to the density or rareness of the medium through which ■ the light passes to the organ. j A more detailed description of the several structures composing the hall of the eye will now be given, in which we shall follow the ' order most natural to a dissector, viz. that from without, inwards. The sclerotic coat consists of white fibrous tissue, in which, how- ever, the ultimate filaments are more distinct, and less wavy than L in ordinary specimens. These form numerous layers, crossing one t another chiefiy at right angles, and thus constitute a membrane | capable of resisting distension, and of retaining its figure under I pressure. It has a white glistening aspect, especially in front, E where it receives the insertion of the tendons of the four straight || muscles, and, being visible, is familiarly known as the “ white of the 9 eye.” The sclerotic is thickest behind, and becomes gradually thin- i ner in front, till nearly in contact with the cornea, where it in- |i creases in strength a little. k In the animal series, the sclerotic becomes of greater relative thickness behind, 9 in proportion to the flattening of the organ in front, and the pressure which it will ■ have to sustain from the surrounding medium. In aquatic mammalia this is f effected simply by an accumulation of the fibrous tissue in that situation, as in the 1 whale, where it is often an inch in thickness, a wonderful provision against the i enormous pressure to which that animal is exposed at great depths. In reptiles | and fishes there is a thick cartilaginous lamina included in the fibrous tissue ; and fi in some this cartilage ossifies, as in the sea-bream, mentioned by Dr. Jacob. In | birds too, where the sclerotica is flattened from before backwards, a thin cartila- ginous plate exists in it, which confers a peculiar elasticity and firmness, and is at the same time light and slender. Its anterior part is further fortified by fourteen ' or fifteen osseous plates, disposed in a regular series round the margin of the cornea. Similar plates occur in various reptiles, and are especially remarkable in those gigantic specimens of this class, the Ichthyosauri and Plesiosauri, which are only known to us by their fossil remains. The optic nerve comes through the sclerotic behind, at a distance of about its own breadth, or nearly one eighth of an inch, on the inner side of the axis of the eye, by which is meant the axis of the