CHAMBERS OF THE EYE. CHAP. XVII.] 37 a narrow circle of hyaloid membrane behind, as well as by the ciliary processes which slope towards the iris, and thus limit the lateral dimensions of the chamber. It is very easy to imagine the existence of a lining membrane to this cavity of the aqueous humor, such as would form a closed sac, and answer to the serous struc- tures; and a membrane of the aqueous humor has accordingly been described by several anatomists. But the most careful observation fails to detect any such serous sac, though the posterior epithelium of the cornea (p. 2]) closely resembles that of serous surfaces. No epithelium exists in front of the iris, and certainly none is present on the anterior surface of the lens : this we can aver from repeated examination. On the posterior surface of the iris, however, there seems to be a pigmentary membrane. Of the Optic Nerres, and their central connexions.—The second pair of nerves is devoted to the sense of sight, and on that account has received the name of Optic Nerves. The marked manner in which these nerves terminate in the retinee, the constant relation in size between them and the organ of vision, the atrophy which they suffer when the visual apparatus has been destroyed, the impairment or loss of vision which follows a morbid state of them, place it beyond all question that they are the proper conductors of visual impressions to the sensorium. The optic nerves form a most extensive connexion with the brain through the optic tracts. The optic tracts are two flattened bands of nervous matter, which proceed from the pos- ,25 terior and superior surface of the mesocejDhale (the region of the quadrigeminal tubercles) forwards along the inferior surface of each crus cerebri, and after passing in a curved course (concave in- wards) along the base of the brain, unite in front of the tuber cinereum and mamillary bodies, and form a very intimate junction, which is called the chiasma or commissure of the optic nerves. From this chiasma the optic nerves spring, and diverge as they pass forwards into the orbits through the optic foramina. ^ This point may be looked upon, therefore, as their origin. To under- ""I*‘if globe, on the stand, however, more exactly their relation to the i**^ors. brain, it will be necessary to trace the connexions of the optic tracts, and to inquire into the structure of the chiasma. In tracing each optic tract back from the chiasma, we find that it first forms a pretty close connexion with the locus perforatus on the