614 DEVELOPMENT [chap. XLlIl. Fig. 2S8. supplies successive generations of cells as tlie old ones are gra- dually removed. The waU of the venous sinus of the mother, reflected from tuft to tuft, forms numerous tubular processes, passing in various directions amongst them; thus connecting the several tufts with each other, and forming a sort of support- ing framework for the entii’e organ. The tubular prolonga- tions, of course, contain cells of the decidua in their inte- Eelation between the foetal and maternal ressels; after Dr. Reid. Fcetal tuft dipping into dilated venous HOr, ancl Dy tUCir OUtCr Sm- sinus. 1. Curling artery of uterus. 2. Uterine vein. fqpp.„.p pnnf^rmnn<s iiritL -Hip 3. Sinus. 4. \ essels of foetal tuft, composed of a small tirc CODLinuouS \Vltn. XllC lining membrane of the ve- Dr. J. Reid has shown that the foetal tufts often dip quite in- 4 branch of artery and vein. nous sinuses of the mother. Fig. 289. to the uterine sinuses. Weber has made some beautiful injec- tions of the foetal tufts, Avhich demon- strate very satisfacto- rily the highly tor- T,. . a V *, T, .. tuous nature of the Utenne sinuses and foetal tufts; after Dr. Reid. — I. Curling artery of the uterus. 2. Uterine sinus, into which a tuft is pro- CaoillarieS, and sllOW longed. 3. Foetal tuft. 4. Foetal vessels brandling. ’ that the convoluted capillary vessel may make many tmms from one foetal loop into another, before it opens into one of the branches of the umbilical vein. Dr. Reid describes the blood brought by the curling arteries of the uterus as being poured “ into a large sac formed by the inner coat of the vascular system of the mother,” from which the blood is carried back by the veins. The researches of Dr. J. Reid agree with those of Weber; but Eschricht holds, that in man the ar- rangement is essentially the same as in animals; and that the capillaries of the placenta of the human foetus are brought into relation with the capillaries only of the mother. In many animals, the maternal and foetal portions of the placenta can be very readily separated from each other; but in man this cannot be done without tearing the vessels. The formation of the placenta commences in the human subject