THE BLOOD. [chap. XXVII, 310 bulk, it will be found to deposit hseinatine as a dark or black powder. This hsematine is insoluble in water, alcohol, or ether, unless mixed with some alkali, which renders it readily soluble: when burned it yields a considerable quantity of iron. Mulder’s ultimate analysis gives the following as its compo- sition :— Carbon Hydrogen Nitrogen Oxygen Iron 65-84 5- 37 10- 40 11- 75 6- 65 Much difference of opinion exists among chemists as to the state in which iron exists in the blood. We have already referred to the opinion of Liebig, who affirms that, in venous blood, it is in the state of protoxide, while, in arterial blood, it is in that of peroxide; and that the change of colour, from the dark red of the former, to the bright scarlet of the latter, is due to the conversion of the protoxide of iron into peroxide by the absorption of fresh oxygen at the lungs. Mulder supposes that it exists in the metallic state as a simple ingredient, as essential to the colour as its oxygen, its hydrogen, its carbon, or its nitrogen. Scherer’s experience, however, would go to show that iron is not essential to the colour of the blood. He treated the red particles with sul- phuric acid, so as to remove their iron, and found that their colour still remained. Hence he infers that iron is not essential to the colour. The value of the administration of iron in the treatment of cases of amemia after loss of blood, is well-known and highly-appreciated by practitioners; it remains to be determined in what way it con- tributes so powerfully, as it unquestionably does, to the restoration of the blood to its normal state. The fact that it does exercise a powerful influence evidently indicates its importance as an ingre- dient in the hsematine. And it may be remarked that iron, even if not essential to its colour, may, nevertheless, be an essential ingredient of a normal hsematine. Difference of Arterial and Venous Blood.—The prominent differ- ence between blood drawn from the arteries and that from the veins, is to be found in the bright scarlet colour of the former, and the dark red, almost black, of the latter. To which may be added some difference of temperature, that of arterial being one or two degrees higher than venous ; perhaps also some difference as to den-