472 LIVER, [chap, XXXIII. wards and forwards; it terminates in the cystic duct, which is about an inch in length. The hepatic duct, leaving the liver by the trans- verse fissure^ passes downwards^ and soon joins the cystic duct at an acute angle, to form the ductus communis choledochus, which is about three inches in length, and lies between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. After coming into close proximity with the pancreatic duct, the common duct enters the coats of the in- testine with the latter, and passes obliquely between them for three-quarters of an inch. The ducts open by an orifice common to both at the junction of the descending and transverse portions of the duodenum. The mucous membrane of the gall bladder is thrown into reticulated folds, which form the boundaries of nu- merous polygonal depressions, so that upon its internal surface it presents a honeycombed appearance. It is highly vascular, and is covered with columnar epithelium. The folds are prolonged into the cystic duct, where they are arranged in a crescentic manner, their general direction being that of a spiral, and they have been compared to a spiral valve. The peculiar arrangement of the vessels of the gall bladder has been already referred to. The cystic artery is derived from the right division of the hepatic, and the veins empty themselves into the vena portm. The lymphatics are very numerous. The greater part of the thiekness of the walls of the gall bladder is composed of fibrous tissue, but there also exists a thin layer of delicate muscular fibre eells, which take partly a longitudinal and partly a transverse direction. The human gall bladder is eapable of containing about an ounce of fluid, but it undergoes great alterations in volume, and in it the bile becomes inspissated, and probably undergoes other changes. This viscus is absent in many genera of fishes; in pigeons, toucans, and some other birds; in the elephant, stag, horse, and tapir; but it is present in the ox, sheep, and antelope. It is always found amongst reptiles. The reason of its absence in the animals above alluded to is not yet satisfactorily explained. Hepatic Vein.—The branches of the hepatic vein run in channels, which are situated between the portal canals (Fig. 217), and in consequence of the small quantity of areolar tissue sm’rounding the hepatic vein, the bases of the adjacent lobules are in contact with it, so that when a branch of the hepatic vein is cut across, it does not collapse, but remains open. The small twigs which collect the blood from the lobules surrounding the trunk of the vein open at once into it, except in the case of the largest branches, where the coats are very thick. This ai’raugcment is shown in Fig. 225, after Mr. Kiernan. In this di-awing, the open-