CHAP. XXV.] DIGESTION IN THE LARGE INTESTINE. 265 disease, and after death no lesion is discoverable, but slight enlarge- ment of the liver."*' We have already remarked that the venous blood of the spleen passes along with that from the stomach and intestines through the liver. Eecent researches of Kblliker and Ecker offer some expla- nation of this fact, and at the same time of the relation between jhcematine and the colouring matter of bile, as well as between the (office of the liver and the generation of the red particles of the blood. It would appear from these researches, which will be detailed when we come to treat of the spleen, that the red bloods corpuscles undergo decay in the red substance of the spleen, giving up their hsematine in an altered form to the portal blood, from which it may not improbably, as Kolliker conjectures, pass into the bile cells to form, and to be eliminated as, the biliary colouring matter; and, perhaps, also to contribute to supply hsematine to new blood-cells developed in the liver.'f' Of Digestion in the large Intestine.—The contents of the large intestine, which constitute the faeces properly so called, differ much from those of the small intestine. Generally, and in the normal state, they are more solid, more homogeneous, exhibiting a certain form, which is determined by the size and shape of the cells of the colon. These characters are more marked the further the fseces have advanced in the colon. The changes, upon which depends the difference of character of the I contents of the large and small intestine, commence in the ccecum. Many facts lead to the opinion that the intestinal contents undergo some further digestion in the coecum, analogous to that of the stomach. Schulz affirms that an acid fluid is secreted by the mucous membrane of the coecum, which is more distinct in herbivora than in carnivora; Bernard and Blondlot state that the acidity of this fluid is due to the presence of lactic acid.J In dogs, we have found that litmus applied to the surface of the ccecal mucous membrane became reddened in some, but not in others; a difference probably depending upon some peculiarity in the food or the time of digestion. The remarkable developement of the coecum in some animals as compared with others, denotes that it must exercise some special function. In herbivora its size is especially large; in carnivora, it is small. Moreover, the mucous membrane of the ccecum resembles • Kolliker iiber die Blutkorperclicii dcr Menschliclieii Embryo und die Entwick- elung dcr Blutkorperclien der Saugethieren. t Cycl. Anat. and I’by.s.; art. Spleen. X Gazette Med. de Paris, 1844. vor,. If. T