289 CHAP. XXVI.] FUNCTION OF THE ABSORBENTS. Wcalls for the nutrition of the tissues, may have its superfluous parts removed through the lymphatics, as it would, perhaps, be more readily received into these new channels than into the same from which it had just been poured. It is a question quite unde- termined, whether the etfete materials of tbe tissues are returned to the circulation in any large measure through the lymphatics, or whether they are principally restored to it by directly entering the capillaries, in exchange for that outgoing current of renovating plasma which serves to supply the waste in nutrition. The car- bonic acid at least, if indeed that product be formed among the tissues, outside the capillaries, and not in the blood, seems to enter the capillaries in a direct manner through their wall, since it is found in greater quantity in venous than in arterial blood. The absorbent system, with its glands, may be regarded in yet another light, viz., as a great internal glandular or secreting system, the ducts of which open not on the surface of the body, but into the vascular system. It is conceived that the inner surface of the lymphatics, and especially of the lymphatic glands, serves to elabo- rate and separate from the blood contained in the vessels distributed on their walls a secretion which is set free into their interior, and is transmitted ultimately to the current of circulating blood through the efferent vessels of the glands, which may be thus looked upon as excretory ducts. Some physiologists attach much importance to the alleged increase in the quantity of fibi'ine contained in the lymph as it traverses the absorbent system, and conclude that this is due to the elaborating agency of the epithelial element of the absorbent tracts on the albumen of the lymph. We owe to Dr. Carpenter a very interesting hypothesis on the influence, in this respect, of the colourless corpuscles, which he imagines to exert this catalytic action on the albumen in which they float. This idea will be best considered in the Chapter on the Blood.* * On the subjects of the foregoing chapter, in addition to the systematic works on Physiology before referred to, the student may consult Mr. Lane’s article “ Lymphatic System,” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology; Matteucci’s “Lectures on the Physical Phenomena of Living Beings,” translated by Pereira- and the valuable “Reports” by Mr. Paget, in the British and Foreign Medical Review. We would also refer to a recent work by Liebig, on the motion of the juices of the animal body, ably translated by Dr. Gregory, from which we liavc derived much assistance.