INNERVATION. 120 [chap. XX. nerve, with the cervical plexus, and with the superior cervical gan- glion, in a manner sometimes very intimate. The following branches are given off by the vagus nerve. 1. The Pharyngeal Branch.—This is believed by some anatomists to be derived altogether from the spinal accessory nerve, through its anastomosis with the vagus. It forms, along with the glosso- pharyngeal, some cervical nerves, and sympathetic filaments, the pharyngeal plexus, and its branches seem to be distributed to the muscles of the pharynx. Sometimes there are two pharyngeal branches, a superior and inferior. 2. The Superior Laryngeal Nerve, which gives oflp the external laryngeal nerve to the crico-thyroid muscle, and is itself distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx, and sends an anastomotic branch to the inferior laryngeal nerve. 3. Cervical Cardiac Branches.—These are at least two in number on each side, and they pass down in front of the innominata on the right and of the aortic arch on the left, and contribute to form the small plexus between the aorta and pulmonary artery. 4. The Inferior Laryngeal Nerve.—This important nerve is dis- tributed to all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the crico- thyroid. The peculiarity of its course has given it the name recur- rent. It has interesting relations differing on the right and left side. Arising on the left side just in front of the arch of the aorta, it winds round the concavity of that vessel, and ascends between the (Esophagus and the trachea to the lower edge of the inferior con- strictor of the pharynx. The nerve of the right side separates from the trunk just above the subclavian artery, and winds round it, ascending in the neck to a similar destination. Both recurrent nerves before their ultimate distribution give off filaments to the heart, to the trachea, to the oesophagus, and to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. 5. Inferior or Thoracic Cardiac Branches, distributed to the peri- cardium, and the cardiac plexus. 6. Anterior Pulmonary Branches, passing in front of the bronchial tube-at the root of the lung, and penetrating the pulmonary substance, along with the ramifications of the bronchus, and of the pulmonary artery. 7. (Esophageal Branches, which are very numerous, and distri- buted to the oesophagus, throughout its entire length. 8. Tracheal Branches, to the mucous membrane and muscular fibres of the trachea. 9. Posterior Pulmonary Branches; these go to form the posterior