[chap. XXXIII. LIVER. 4G2 vein, and both tending towards the notch in the posterior border which lodges the vena cava; these divisions, however, are both of them on the surface only, and are rather vestiges of the imperfect conditions of foetal existence than of value in the study of the physiological anatomy of the gland. On the under surface of the liver, is observed a groove passing oflF from the longitudinal fissure, transversely, for a certain distance, on the surface of the right lobe, and lodging the biliary ducts, the sinus of the vena porta, the hepatic artery, with lymphatics and nerves, all enveloped in areolar tissue, called the capsule of Glisson, and brought to this transverse fissure between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. From this groove, there extends throughout the substance of the organ a series of tubular passages, so numerously ramified and uniformly distributed, that no part whatever of the hepatic substance is at a greater distance from them than about the thirtieth of an inch. These are called the portal canals (fig. 216), so named by Mr. Kiernan, because they lodge the branches of the portal vein, from which the plexus of capillaries sur- rounding the biliary-cells takes origin. The portal canals also lodge the hile-ducts, which are thus conducted to that aspect of the mass of bile-cells, where the capillary plexus commences. The same canals also convey the hepatic artery with the lymphatics and nerves of the liver. Fig. 2IG. A transverse section of a small ])ortal canal and ts vessels, after Kiernan. 1. Portal vein. 2. Inter- lobular branches. 3. liranches of the vein, also giving off interlobular branches, termed by Mr. Kiernan vaginal branches. 4. llei)atic duct. 5. Hepatic artery. comes within are intermediate to On the posterior border of the liver already referred to, is a deep groove placed obliquely, the fissure for the inferior vena cava; from this there penetrate the substance of the organ, another series of ramified tubu- lar passages, which are com- pletely occupied by a nearly cor- responding number of branches of the hepatic veins, or vena cava hepatica, which open into the vena cava. These canals, called by the same distinguished ana- tomist, hepatic venous canals, are so distributed throughout the organ that some part of them and they The bases )f an inch of every portion of its substance, the ramifications of the portal vein.