[chap. XXI. 138 INNERVATION. The lesser splanchnic nerve takes its rise by two roots from the eleventh and twelfth, or from the tenth and eleventh ganglia; it passes down in a similar course to the larger nerve, parallel to, and beliind it, pierces the diaphragm, and unites with the renal plexus of nerves, and with the aortic plexus. The striking analogy between these nerves and the cardiac nerves cannot fail to attract the attention even of the most superficial ob- server. The latter nerves, distributed to an important organ in the thorax, have their rise in the neck; and the splanchnic nerves, de- riving their origin from nearly all the thoracic ganglia, are devoted to important viscera of the abdomen. Of the Lumbar and Sacral portions of the Sympathetic. The chain may be followed down to the coccyx; the lumbar ganglia are small and irregular in number. The continuity of the chain between the lumbar and dorsal segments, is maintained sometimes by a small in- tercommunicating cord, between the last dorsal and first lumbar ganglion, wlaicli pierces the diaphragm, sometimes by a branch of the greater or lesser splanchnic, which of course establishes the contin- uity indirectly. The branches of communication of these nerves with the lumbar spinal nerves, are sufficiently distinct, and some of them are of great length. The gray branches are, according to Beck, larger than the corresponding ones in the thorax. The nerves which come from the lumbar portion of the sympa- thetic are destined to the aorta, and to the lumbar arteries; the greater part of them form a plexus around the aorta, between the mesenteric arteries, from which proceed fibres to form the inferior mesenteric plexus., which follows the inferior mesenteric artery ; be- low this artery the aorta is still embraced by a plexus, (inferior aortic plexus) which divides into the hypogastric plexuses., one on the right and the other on the left, which supply the rectum and bladder, the organs of generation, and the accessory parts. At the base of the coccyx, the sympathetic of the right side, anastomoses with that of the left by means of a branch passing on each side from the last sacral ganglion to a ganglion in front of the coccyx, which is called the ganglion impar. from which it arises, becomes associated witli some gelatinous fibres. Tims, while each intercostal nerve contributes certain tubular fibres, each thoracic ganglion con- tributes gelatinous fibres. Sometimes these two sets of fibres are kept distinet, and the splanchnic nerve consists obviously of a white and a gray portion. The gela- tinous fibres are considerably more numerous at the lower than at the upper part of the splanchnic nerve, as pointed out by Mr. Beck, who very justly cites the fact as strongly confirmatory of the statement tlmt these fibres arise from the ganglia. Phil. Trans. 1846, p. 224.