INFLUENCE OF CLIMATE. CHAP. XXX.] 421 the nest, hut when removed from the nest, fell in one hour to 66° F., when the external air was at 62° F.; and he showed that this result w^as not to be attributed to their unfledged state. Young animals, therefore, require the aid of external warmth, or at least of every means of retaining their own warmth. The nests of birds not only serve to retain the warmth of the parent during incubation, but also that of the young brood during their tender age. The human infant stands no less in need of ex- traneous warmth—and it may be safely affirmed, that much of the immense mortality of our infant population is owing to the want of artificial heat. We must refer to what has been already said in the chapter on , food (Chapter XXII.), for observations on the relation of the kind of food to the animal temperature. Influence of Climate and Seasons.—The best account w^e possess of the effect of climate results from 4000 experiments made on board the Bonite, a French vessel, during her passage between Cape Horn and the tropics. The mean temperature of 10 men at Cape Horn with the thermometer at 32° F. was hardly two degrees lower than at Calcutta, where the thermometer stood at 104° F. The temperatm’e of the body was found to rise and faU perceptibly, but slightly—to fall slowly in passing from a warm to a cold climate, and to rise more rapidly in re-entering the torrid zone. The rate at which an animal loses its heat will depend both on the coldness of the surrounding air, and on the rapidity of evapora- tion. In temperate climates these causes differ inversely with the season. In winter there is much loss by radiation, little by eva- poration, in summer the reverse. But Dr. EdAvards has well shoAvn that these compensations are not the only cause of the uniformity of temperature so wonderfully maintained, but that there is also in animals a difference in the rate at which heat is produced, accord- ing to the season, " the calorific faculty is more active in Avinter than in summer.” “ In winter there is a more active production with greater loss, in summer a less production Avith smaller loss.” To test this. Dr. Edwards contrived a box, surrounded with ice, liaAong the same external temperature and the same humidity of atmosphere in Avinter and summer, so that the loss by radiation and evaporation should be the same in both cases. Into this ap- paratus, in February, he placed 5 sparroAvs that had been living in a Avarm room, and found that after an interval of 3 hours tlicy maintained their previous heat Avithin 1° F. Again, in July, he did the same Avith 4 others, and these after 3 hours Avere found to