THE GASTRIC JUICE. 203 CHAP. XXIV.J The gastric fluid possesses the property of causing the coagulation of the caseine of milk ; an artificial digestive fluid made from the mucous membrane of the true stomach of ruminants possesses the same power, even if its acid be neutralized by potass. This fact has been long known to the makers of cheese ; and the dried mucous membrane of the fourth stomach of the calf has been used, under the name of rennet, for the purpose of coagulating that principle in milk. That it possesses this power independently of any acid which it may contain, was first pointed out by Berzelius. Some have affirmed that this power belongs only to the mucous membrane of the stomach of sucking animals. A fluid of such digestive power as that above described cannot be made from any mucous membrane but that of the stomach. The mucous membrane of the bladder, of the greatest portion of the intestinal canal, is quite insufficient for this purpose ; but that of the duodenum appears to exert some solvent influence. The organic jprinciple of the Gastric Juice.—All these facts show that the gastric mucous membrane contains some material, which, when dissolved or diffused in acidulated water, exercises a power not to be distinguished from that of the gastric juice itself. Can this material be isolated ? There is no doubt that we can obtain from the mucous membrane of the digestive stomach of animals, an organic substance, which exhibits reactions in close analogy with those of albumen, and which exercises a solvent or catalytic influ- ence upon various azotised substances ; to this substance Schwann and Muller gave the name pepsine.'" * Valentin very justly remarks that the organic combinations upon which the solvent power of the gastric fluid depends, share the same fate with other contact substances, namely, that they cannot be obtained in perfect purity, nor can their precise rela- tive proportions be determined with exactness. Pepsine, therefore, he adds, can only be regarded as a hypothetical or conventional name for an unknown mass which may be separated by alcohol, or by lead and alcohol in combination with other bodies. Nor do the reagents indicate any definite character—they only afford con- jectural information. To view it as a kind of diastase, whilst it does not remove our difficulty, nevertheless denotes the power of the unknown substance in a more precise and definite manner. An artificial digestive fluid may be made in the following man- ner. Let a piece of the mucous membrane of the stomach of a pig be macerated in distilled water for twelve hours at the temperature * Also called gasierase by French writers.