xxvir.] THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES. 299 CHAP. corpuscles of the goat are very small, 5^05—of an inch in diameter. The largest corpuscles in Mammalia are found in the elephant; they measure, according to Gulliver, of an inch in diameter. The Camelidse offer a remarkable exception to the circular form of the hlood-corpuscle of Mammalia. In these animals it is oval, as first pointed out by Mr. Gulliver, with a long diameter of from to 5^ of an inch, and a short diameter of to 5:^55 ; in all other respects, however, these corpuscles agree with those of other mammals. In Birds the corpuseles are oval in shape; they have a very distinct nucleus, which is much smaller than the corpuscle itself. The long diameter of the blood- corpuscle of Birds ranges between 03155 and 55*55 of an inch, and the short diameter from 3,^5 to 3,^ of an inch. (Figs. 175,181, 183). Fig. 176. Red corpuscles of pigeon’s blood magni- fied 400 diameters. A. Red particles unal- tered, with two or three colourless particles. B. Treated with acetic acid, which developcs the cell-wall and nucleus more clearly. Blood-corpuscles of the common frog. Mag- nified 400 diameters. A. In serum, a. Fully developed corpuscle. 6. Nucleus with pale cell- wall and clear contents, c. Colourless cor- puscle. B. Treated with acetic acid. In Reptiles the red corpuscles are of an oval shape, with a distinct and large nucleus (Fig. 176). The long diameter of the corpuscle has a range of from 3^ to of an inch, the short diameter ranging between to 25*55 of an inch. Among these are to be found the largest known blood-corpuscles, as those of the proteus and of the syren. Fig. 177- Fig. 178. Red corpuscle of fishes ;—a. Lamprey. Blood-corpuscles of the crab. A. Granule 4. Skate. (After Wharton Jones.) cells, b. Nucleated cells. (After Wharton Jones.) In Fishes, the red corpuscle is oval in most of the genera, and possesses a distinct nucleus (Fig. 177, b). In the lowest cartilaginous fishes, as the lamprey and the myxinc, however, it returns to the circular and biconcave form of the Mam- malian red corpuscle (Fig. 177, a). This remarkable fact was first pointed out by Professor R. Wagner. Mr. Wharton Jones has shown that it contains a nucleus, which cannot be detected in the red corpuscles of Mammalia. X 2