82 INNERVATION. [chap. XVIII. Fig. 142. the peri- some quan- ably smaller, so that lymph intervenes in tity, except where the nerves pass- ing to it confine it in close con- tact with the osseous wall. Its vestibular portion consists of two sacs, viz.: a principal one of trans- versely oval figure and compressed laterally, called the utriculus or common sinus, occupying the upper and back part of the cavity, in contact with the fovea semi-ellip- tica, and beneath this a smaller and more globular one, the sac- culus, lying in the fovea hemi- spherica, near the orifice of the vestibular scala of the cochlea, and probably communicating with the utriculus. The membranous semicircular I^Ierabranous labyrinth of the left side, with its nerves and otoliths;—su. Superior semicircular canal, with the ampulla and its nerve at one end, and the other end joined by j?, the posterior canal, to form the tubulus communis, i. Inferior, or horizontal canal, with the ampulla and its nerve at one end, and the other entering the utriculus sepa- rately. 6*. Powdery otolith seen through the trans- 7 r i lucent wall of the common sinus, or utriculus, with CCtTldlS HclYB tllG ScHDG llcUDGS, SllcipB, the nerves distributed to it. s. Powdery otolith of *■ j the socculus seen with its nen'e, in a similar way. cUlCl cH'l’cHlg'dllBUt clS tllG OSSGOUS n. Cochlear division of the auditory nerve cut off i i • i i ii t r where it enters the cochlea, d. Portio dura of the CtlllcllS WlUCll GIlClOSG tllGlU} OUt tlFG seventh pair leaving the auditory ner\'e, or portio ji • i p ji t j n mollis, to enter the aqueduct of Fallopius. Mag- OUiy cl tuiru. Ot tllG QlcllllGtGr 01 nified. From Breschet. • ,i i • i a i tlie latter. As the osseous canals open into the vestibule, so the membranous ones open at both ends into the utriculus—there being, however, a constricted neck between this sac and the ampullated extremity of each canal. The auditory nerve sends branches to the utriculus, to the sacculus, and to the am- pulla of each membranous canal. These nerves enter the vestibule by the minute apertures before described, and tie down, as it were, both the utriculus and sacculus to the osseous wall at those points, the membrane being much thicker and more rigid where the nerves join it. The branches to the ampullae of the superior vertical and the horizontal semicircular canals enter the vestibule with the utricular nerve, and then cross to their destinations, while that to the ampulla of the posterior vertical canal traverses the posterior wall of the cavity and opens directly into the ampulla. The wall of the membranous labyrinth is translucent, flexible, and tough. When withdrawn from its bed and examined, it appears to present three coats, an outer, middle, and internal. The outer is loose, easily detached, somewhat flocculent, and contains more or