234 DIGESTION. [chap, xxv. to tlie ileum, and ought to be regarded as forming a special anatomico-physiological feature of that portion of the intestine, and as indicative of its proper limits. We find in man as many as from seventeen to twenty-two patches, but with great variety both as to number and size. The patches are smallest towards the jejunum, and increase considerably in size towards the coccum, so that some quite near the latter intestine measure from two to four inches in their long diameter. Each of the small glands, the aggregate of which constitutes the patch of Peyer, is placed in a depression and surrounded by a groove resembling that which surrounds the papillaj vallatse of the tongue ; some being enclosed by a circle of the orifices of large tubes of Lieberliiihn. It seems to be in every respect similar, as regards its intimate structure, to the solitary glands, and probably discharges its secretion by a similar mechanism. The arrange- ment and structure of these glands are well seen in a vertical sec- tion, as represented by fig. 167. Peyer’s glands are well developed in the Carnivora, more so than • in Herbivora, and they commence very high up in the intestine, whence it would appear that the shortness of the small intestine which distinguishes the former animals is due to the imperfect developement of the duodenum and of the jejunum. The office of these glands is involved in great obscurity; most probably it is connected with the further reduction of the ali- mentary matters as they pass through the intestine. But we are unable to form any conjecture as to the causes which determine the peculiar shape or position of the glands, or as to the nature of their secretion. They are larger and more developed during the diges- tive process than during fasting, a fact which denotes that the former is the period of their greatest activity of function. It is not impossible that the peculiar odour of the fseces, which is in a great measure characteristic in particular classes of animals, may be due to a secretion by these glands. In typhus or typhoid fever these and the solitary glands are prone to become inflamed and to ulcerate. The poisonous matter which generates the fever is apt to fix on these glands; or they may be the special channel for its elimination, and in the process they suffer irritation. In phthisis these same glands are very liable to become the seat of the tubercular deposit, and also of an ulcera- tive process, whence results the diarrhoea, which proves so trouble- some an accompaniment of that disease.* * Some excellent remarks on the strueture of the solitary and Peyer’s glands