THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. 358 force and a velocity exactly adapted to overcome such natural obstacles as the action of the vascular system must naturally create. To estimate the force of the heart, we must ascertain the pressure which the blood exercises on the walls of the blood-vessels during life, and we must measure the rate at which it flows through them. A fluid flowing through a tube exerts a double force, one in the direction of the long axis of the tube, the force of the stream, of which the velocity gives a measure, and another, which is the pressure of the fluid against the wall of the containing tube or the lateral pressure. This latter force is always proportionate to the resistances which the fluid has to encounter to its flow. The longer the tube, through which the fluid passes, the rougher its walls, the narrower the opening through which it escapes, and the more glutinous the fluid, the greater the lateral pressure.* A tube fixed into the walls of the tube through which the fluid flows, and at right angles to it, affords a simple means of measuring the lateral pressure, by the height to which the fluid will rise in it. By equally simple means we may measure both forces, if the measuring tube be prolonged into the other tube with its orifice opposite to the stream. The height which the column of fluid will attain in a tube so arranged, will indicate the altitude from which it must have fallen, to acquire the velocity and force with which it streams through the main tube. Pitot, a distinguished French engineer, who lived about the middle of the last century, employed a tube of this kind for mea- suring the velocity of the stream in rivers. The tube was bent at a right angle, into two unequal branches, and the smaller or horizontal branch was immersed in the stream with its mouth opposed to it. The height of the column sustained in the tube afforded a measure of the force and velocity of the stream, that height being such as the water must have fallen from, in order to have acquired the same velocity. Hales adopted a similar method to measure the pressure of the blood in the arteries. He inserted into the left crural artery of a mare, a brass pipe, whose bore was one-sixth of an inch in diameter; and to that, by means of another brass pipe, he fixed a glass tube of nearly the same diameter, which was nine feet in length. When the blood was allowed to flow into this tube o it rose in it to a height eight feet three inches above the level of the left ventricle of the heart. After considerable loss of blood, however, the power of maintaining a column of this height ceased, * See Volkmann, die Hsemodynamik riacli Versuehen. Cap. i. Leipzig, 1860.