CHAV. XVII.] CORRECT VISION WITH AN INVERTED IMAGE. 57 behind the exact focus. It is obvious that a linear object would be more perceptible than a point, and a moving object more so than a stationary one, in consequence of wider and more distant portions of the retina being affected in both cases. The apparent truthfulness of a view, recently put forward on high authority in Grermany, and copied into several works in this country, makes it necessary to explain here that the rod-like par- ticles of Jacob’s membrane, though corresponding nearly in size I with the points of the retina capable of independent sensation, yet being on the choroidal surface, and separated from the gray nervous ] layer by the intervening granules, can scarcely have a share in determining the size of the independent visual points. The un- fortunate error which placed these rods as papillae on the hyaloid surface of the retina, was too tempting a ground of theory not to i be readily admitted as true, without scrupulous examination ; and the price to be paid will probably be some degree of discredit thrown on minute anatomical research. Correct Vision icith an inverted Image.— Visual idea of Direc- ; tion.—The image on the retina being the reverse of the picture of external objects seen by the mind, it is manifest that in some way or other the inversion is counteracted ere the impression becomes a sensation. It is conceivable that this correction may take place I in the optic nerve or brain, but it is far more probable that it occurs in the retina. It is certain that we do not see the image as ! it exists on the retina, or its. inversion would not have remained so long unknown; we rather see out of or from the retina. The simple experiment of pressing with the finger on the retina through the ocular tunics, and thus eliciting a luminous appearance on the opposite side, seems to prove that the apparent projection of a i luminosity in a direction perpendicular to the point stimulated, is a necessary part of the excitability of the retina. If this be grant- ' ed as an ultimate fact, it will explain why an inverted image, f formed on a concave retina, shows objects in the same position as they are shown by the other senses which receive direct impres- sions from them, particularly touch. It has been supposed by Muller and Volkmann, that objects do really appear inverted ; but they argue that, as long as all do so, even visible parts of our own bodies, there is no need of a correc- tion. But this will not explain the perfect harmony existing between impressions conveyed through the senses of hearing and ' touch, with those derived from sight. Sounds are appreciated, and If tactile impressions arc felt, as proceeding from a particular direc-