280 ABSORPTION. [CFIAP. XXVI. the fluid element. The coagulability of the lymph appears to bear a close relation to that of the blood in the same animal. Lpnph.—The liquid portion, liquor lyrnfluz^ is supposed by some to be simply albuminous in the primary network, and to acquire its fibrine on its passage onwards through the vessels and glands towards the veins. The fibrine is found in increasing quantity towards the main trunks, though never in so large a proportion as in the liquor sanguinis. The same kind of saline matters are also met with in the liquor lyraphas as in the liquor sanguinis, together with a trace of fatty substance and some iron. The lymph corpuscles are very scanty in the primary network Fig. 172. ’ and branches (as already noticed in the observa- tions of Kolliker), and they increase in number, and perhaps in size, to- wards the trunks, espe- cially as they pass the glands. They present themselves under some varieties; in one, and this is the most usual, the nucleus is concealed Cb Fluid from a mesenteric gland of a rabbit, when white chyle was present in the lactcals. a. Molecular base, b, c, d,, Ac. Various organic corpuscles, b. Appearance of the majority of corpuscles. The contained granules are most numerous and coarse in the largest ones, but almost entirely disappear under the action of acetic acid, which thereby discloses an appearance of one or two nuclei. The majority of the corpuscles are either large or small, and but few of intermediate sue. d. Exhibits the effect of acetic acid in rendering the corpuscles more clear and their nuclei more distinct, e. Large lymph coniuscle, showing well the granulated border. /. Large corpuscle, ap- parently inclosing three smaller ones, each of which has the granulated character. This appearance of inclosed cells is not common.—Magnified 300 diameters. by a granular matter, in another this granular matter appears in process of removal or deliques- cence, so that the nucleus is visible—or, again, the interval between the nu- cleus and the cell-wall may be quite clear, and the granular matter wanting. These corpuscles are called by Mr. W. Jones respectively the granule- cell and the nucleated cell in the uncoloured stage, and he further points out that there are in the lymph other nucleated cells approximating in colour to the red-corpuscles of the blood, and which he regards as in progress to become red blood corpus- cles, by losing their cell-wall, and becoming reduced to a simple nucleus.* Besides these true corpuscles of the lymph, it is very common to * Philosophical Transactions, 1846, p. 82, and the next chapter, on the Blood.