CHAP. XXVII.] 297 THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES. improbable that they may be constantly being developed by tlic chemical changes which are unceasingly going on in that fluid, but that they become attracted from it as quickly as they are formed in it, and do not accumulate in it in any quantity which admits of being easily detected. According to Dr. Thomson, sugar may be alvvays easily detected in the blood, shortly after a meal containing starch. The Fihrine.—We have already explained the manner in which fibrine may be obtained from the blood. One thousand parts of healthy blood contain two or three of fibrine. A pint of blood will therefore yield about twenty-nine grains of fibrine, adopting the highest estimate. Pure fibrine, or, to speak more exactly, fibrine separated from the red corpuscles, for it cannot be completely separated from the colourless corpuscles, has a remarkable tendency to assume the fibrous form. A drop of the colourless liquor sanguinis, which is found on the surface of blood, about to form a butfy coat, exhibits, when coagulated, an intricate interlacement of minute fibres. Here and there a colourless cell is entangled in it, ap- pearing as a centre, whence pass numerous radiations of minute fibres. Dr. W. Addison, who believes that the fibrine is contained within the colourless corpuscles, considers the bursting of a large number of these, and the consequent liberation of their enclosed fibrine, as the first step in the process of coagulation, which explains the entanglement of them in the fibrillating fibrine. The process may be best seen, as this excellent observer recommends, by examining a drop of the colourless liquor sanguinis from blood, about to form a huffy coat, and allowed to coagulate upon a slip of glass.*}* The Red Corpuscles.—It is to the multitude of coloured particles which float in the liquor sanguinis, under the name of “ the red corpuscles,” that the blood owes its colour. To examine these, it is only necessary to place a drop of blood in the field of the microscope, taking care to dilute it with a fluid, similar or nearly so in specific gravity to the serum : a solution of sugar or of salt in water, answers this purpose completely. So numerous and so crowded together are the corpuscles in a drop of blood, that it would be difiicult to obtain a complete view of any one of them without this precaution. In the human blood, the coloured corpuscle is a circular double concave lens ; from being concave on each surface, its margin is thick and rounded, and its thickness is less in its centre than at * Loc. cit. f Dr. W. Addison’s second series of Exp. Researches, 1843. VOL. II. X