370 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. force of the blood in the veins diminishes or increases with that in the corresponding artery under certain circumstances. 3. In Fishes, the whole blood ejected from the heart passes, from the hulbus aortte, through the branchial capillaries, before it enters the systemic vessels ; thus illustrating how the heart’s force may he propagated through a complex network of minute capil- laries, to both arteries and veins, as well as to the system of capillaries which intervenes between them. 4. In debilitated animals, it is evident, from the jerking move- ment of the blood in the capillaries, corresponding with the action of the heart, that the impulse of that organ is extended to these vessels, unbroken by the elastic reaction or the muscular contrac- tion of the arteries. This may be Avell seen in watching the circu- lation in the frog’s web, or in the tail of the tadpole. Thus, there can be no doubt that the heart’s force is not only fully adequate to, but is the principal agent in, the maintenance of the capillary circulation. When this force fails, the circulation in the capillaries suffers as much as, if not more than, that in any other portion of the vascular system; and the sluggish transmission of the blood through the capillaries, such as we often find when the heart is simply w^eakened, occasions congestions, particularly of dependent parts, and then, by the filtration of the serous por- tion of the blood through the parietes of the vessels, oedema and anasarca. But however readily we may concede that the heart’s action is the ‘principal force, it must be coiafessed there are certain phe- nomena which do not admit of satisfactory explanation, on the supposition that it is the only one employed in the maintenance of the capillary circulation ; and it seems more reasonable to assume the influence and exercise of some other force superadd- ed to this, in order to explain various phenomena which take place in, or which are dependent on, the circulation through the capillaries. The more remarkable of these phenomena are blushing, or, in more general terms, the influence of mental emotion upon the capil- lary circulation ; the influence of local irritation, whether accidental or morbid ; and the effects of asphyxia. It seems highly probable that in the ordinary molecular changes w’hich take place in the nutrition of the tissues, a force is generated, which, in its normal state, must promote, by an attractive influence, the flow" of blood through the capillaries. The cessation of such a force would operate unfavourably to the flow of blood through the