[chap. XXV, DIGESTION. 242 formation of white chyle, and Tiedemann and Gmelin had long since found, that the quantity of fibrine contained in the lymph and chyle, after a long fast, is not less than that which is found there after digestion. Bouchardat and Sandras obtained the same results in their experiments on animals fed on albumen, casein, or gluten, as on animals fed with fibrine; these substances, therefore, must likewise be excluded from the list of those which are capable of forming chyle. Hence the whole class of neutral azotised sub- stances, admitting of solution by pepsin, may be absorbed without passing into the state of chyle. Neither does it appear to be necessary for the appropriation of amylaceous aliments that they should pass into the condition of chyle. These substances are but little digested in the stomach, and undergo their principal changes in the small intestines. Here the pancreatic fluid exercises a similar influence upon them to that which the neutral azotised matters experience from the gastric juice. IBouchardat and Sandras found that a few drops of pan- creatic fluid, added to some boiled starch, and kept at the tem- perature of from 95° to 104°, dissolved it in a short time, the liquid became transparent, and all trace of starch disappeared. The same effect is produced if a piece of the pancreas be used instead of the pancreatic fluid.'’* The starch in these experiments is converted into dextrine, or into sugar, in which state it is soluble, and thus admits of direct absorption into the blood-vessels, or the sugar undergoes a further change into lactic acid, and in this condition passes into the circu- lation. It appears that the presence of a free alkali is as necessary for these changes, as that of acid is needed for the solution of the neutral azotised substances. If the pancreatic fluid be acidulated, it ceases to act on starch, but, according to Bernard and Barreswil, acquires the power of dissolving albumen, fibrine, &c. We do not, however, find that alkalized pepsine is capable of dissolving amy- laceous matters. Bouchardat and Sandras have examined the changes which • Dextrine is a substance having some of the properties of gum, and obtained from starch by the action of heat, diastase, or dilute acids. It is soluble in water, and exists in almost every part of plants. When starch is boiled in water for some time an abundance of dextrine is produced. If the action of diastase or of the acids be continued too long, or if the quantity of cither be too large, grape-sugar is produced. Hence dextrine may be regarded as the first stage in the transformation of starch into sugar. The formula for dextrine is C‘*, H'®, O'®. Sec Mulder’s Cliemistry of Animal and Vegetable Physiology, by Johnston, p.224.