336 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. each of the large arterial and venous trunks that connect them- selves with the heart. This bag serves to fix the position of the heart, and to prevent any sudden or extensive displacement, which might interfere with its proper action. It consists almost exclusively of white fibrous tissue. Within this fibrous bag is a serous membrane, the serous peri- cardium, which resembles in all points of arrangement and struc- ture the other membranes of its class. One portion of it invests the internal surface of the fibrous pericardium, while the other covers the heart, the line of reflection passing over the great vessels at the base of the heart. The cavities of the heart are lined by the endocardium, a mem- brane continuous with and closely similar to the lining mem- brane of arteries and veins. It consists of a layer of epithelium placed on a stratum of fine fibres which exhibit minute wavings. The epithelium appears to be extremely delicate, but the same in all its characters as that of the blood-vessels. It is so deli- cate that to be seen satisfactorily it must be examined in animals Fig. I9G. Fig. 197. Epithelium from the left auricle of the horse (magnified 200 diams.) showing the two forms of particles, the round and the pointed. Epithelium from the left ventricle of the horse (Mag- nified 200 di.ams.). just killed. We observe two forms of epithelial particles, one soft, rounded and globular, the other somewhat compressed and drawn out at opposite poles into pointed or fibre-like processes. (Fig. 196.) It is difficult to determine the precise relative position of these two forms of epithelium, but it seems probable that the pointed processes are the more deeply seated, and are in immediate contact with the subjacent fibrous layer, which here corresponds to the basement membrane beneath the epithelium of serous and mucous membranes. The endocardium of the left auricle, and of the septum and auricular appendage of the right auricle, is thicker and denser than