CHAP. XXXIII.] 471 GALL BLADDER. these brauehes leave the ducts and anastomose with each other just outside the trunk from which they are given off. Alany of the small ducts about the .gL- of an inch in diameter, have numerous coecal pouches connected with them, arranged pretty close together, gradually becoming shorter as the duct becomes smaller, and giving off branches composed of basement membrane only. These irregular ducts with coecal pouches are very numerous in the transverse fissure of the liver, where they form an intricate network connected with the larger branches of the duct in this situation. These were described by Theile as branching mucous glands, but were first noticed and named vasa aberrantia by Weber, who also described the anastomosis between the right and left hepatic ducts in the transverse fissure, by the intervention of these irregular branches. In the portal canals, the vasa aberrantia occur as already men- tioned, but in diminished number. Dr. Beale considers these cavities, or irregular branches, connected with the ducts, as little reservoirs in which the bile in ducts with thick coats is brought into closer proximity with the numerous vessels surrounding them, by which means it loses some of its water, and probably undergoes other changes. He observes, that the arrangement of the vessels. around these ducts, both in the transverse fissure of the liver and in the portal canals, is similar to that which exists in the coats of the gall bladder. A small cavity with a narrow neck seems scarcely adapted for pouring out viscid mucus; moreover, the bile of animals, in wliich these so-called glands are very few in number, as in the rabbit, seems to contain as much mucus as that of the pig, in which animal the glands are very numerous and well developed. Accord- ing to this view of their office, these cavities may be regarded in the light of little gall bladders. The coats of the larger ducts appear to be principally composed of condensed fibrous tissue, but there is reason for supposing, that, at least in some of them, there ai’e a few muscular fibre cells, although they do not form a distinct layer or muscular coat. The epithelium of the larger ducts is of the columnar variety. The cells are large and well-formed, often exhibiting a distinct nucleus. They are frequently tinged with yellow colouring matter, and often contain yellow granules. In the smaller ducts, this epithelium becomes shorter, until, in the smallest branches, it approaches more nearly to the tesselated variety. Gall Bladder.—The gall bladder may be looked upon as a diverticulum of the hepatic duct. It lies in a fossa underneath the liver. It is of a pear shape, and its fundus is directed down-