INNERVATION. 108 [chap. XIX. suffers to such an extent that it becomes reduced to a mere inert membrane, and flaps to and fro as the patient speaks, interfering to a great degree with the clearness of his articulation. That the facial nerve in some degree influences the movements of the soft palate, has been suggested by the record of cases in which palsy of the muscles on one side of the face has been accompanied by paralysis of the corresponding half of the velum. That this symptom sometimes accompanies the other signs of this form of palsy,cannot be doubted; but the frequency of its absence is sufficient to denote the trifling influence of the nerve upon the palatine muscles. Valentin irritated the greater superficial petrosal nerve, which is the probable source of any nervous filaments from the facial to the muscles of the palate, but failed to excite any movement of those muscles in fifteen experiments. Much uncertainty exists likewise as regards the function of the chorda tympani. Regarding it, as we do, as a branch of the portio dura, we think it must exercise a motor influence upon the parts to which it is distributed, of which the principal is the duct of the submaxillary gland. But the curious relation which it bears to the malleus and incus denotes that it may have something to do with the mechanism of the organ of hearing. It has been made a question how far the facial nerve possesses any sensibility, and from whence it derives sensitive fibres. That irritation of it causes pain, has been sufficiently proved by various experimenters, and it appears that the sensibility is more marked after the nerve has passed through the parotid gland. The sources of the sensitive fibres appear to be clearly indicated by the various anastomoses which the facial nerve forms in its several stages—in the Fallopian aqueduct with the vagus nerve, in the face with the fifth nerve, and in the neck with spinal nerves; the communications with the fifth nerve being very numerous. There are therefore suf- ficient means of communication with sensitive nerves to explain the sensibility of the facial without its being necessary to have recourse to the theory of Arnold, and to rank it with the double-rooted nerves. Of the Ninth or Hypoglossal Nerve.—The origin of this nerve is from the side of the medulla oblongata along the anterior margin of the olivary body. Ten or twelve fasciculi of fibres emerge here from the central part of the medulla oblongata, and unite into two bun- dles, which coalesce and emerge as one nerve through the anterior condyloid foramen. The ninth nerve, on escaping from the anterior condyloid fora- men, passes outwards, and winds forwards around the pharynx, to • \ i 5 .