CHAP. XXI.] PLEXUSES OF THE SYMPATHETIC. 139 I K Of the Thoracic and Abdominal plexuses. So large a portion of the sympathetic is distributed to viscera in the thorax and abdomen, that it may not improperly be designated as the visceral nerve; for those organs, upon which the great processes which contribute to the nutrition of the body so much depend, derive their nerves mainly from this source, and whatever cerebro-spinal fibres they re- ceive, are distributed to them in intimate association with the proper filaments of the sympathetic. The plexuses in the thorax which derive nerves from the sym- pathetic are the pulmonary plexus, and the cardiac plexus. The pulmonary plexVjS is chiefly formed by branches of the vagus, interlacing with each other from opposite sides along the median plane. It occupies two planes, one anterior to the bronchi constitut- ing the anterior pulmonary plexus, the other posterior., which is much the more considerable and lies behind the bronchi. To these, but especially to the latter, nerves pass olF from the higher thoracic ganglia. The cardiac plexus is almost wholly derived from the sympa- thetic, only a few of its fibres coming from the cardiac branches of the vagi. It is very remarkable that all the nerves which the sym- pathetic contributes to this plexus, are derived from the cervical, and not from the thoracic ganglia. The plexus resulting from the anastomoses of these nerves, occupies an anterior and a posterior plane ; the former passing in fr’ont of the great arteries, and follow- ing the course of the anterior coronary artery, in the anterior groove of the heart. The plexus entwines round this artery and its ramifica- tionsi, and its fibres are doubtless conducted by them to the muscular fibres of the heart. The posterior plexus follows the course of the right coronary artery, and of its branches, which lies in the posterior fissure of the heart. A plexus of fibres, occupying a position inter- mediate to these plexuses, lies behind the arch of the aorta, above the right pulmonary, and sends a considerable plexus of nerves to the auricles. This plexus was described by Haller, as the great cardiac plexvjS. Several small ganglia, or gangliola., are found in connexion with the nerves of the heart. Wrisberg described one just above the arch of the aorta, at the junction of anastomosing fibres from the superior cardiac nerves. A ganglion is also sometimes found in the plexus in front of the auricles, and Eemak describes and figures several small ganglia upon the subdivisions of the anterior and pos- terior cardiac plexuses, and in the muscular substance of the heart.* * Miillcr’s Arcliiv., 1841.