CHAP. XVII.] DURATION OF IMPRESSIONS —OCULAR SPECTRA. 53 j under all degrees of illumination. The excitability of the retina in I creatures usually exposed to the full light of day, requires this it additional protection; and where it is deficient, as in albinos, an 0! ordinary light becomes painfiil, and the moveable protecting parts fi ai'e habitually brought into increased use. In animals of nocturnal fci habits, furnished with a tapetum lucidum, the excitability of the j retina is probably somewhat modified, and the iris also is generally 0 larger, and capable of an ampler range of motion. ' Duration of impressions on the Betina.—We continue to see an { object after the rays of light emerging from it have ceased to fall 1 upon the retina, and this for a period proportioned to the intensity I and duration of the impression they have left. The familiar ex- periment of twirling a lighted stick, so as to see a luminous circle, I shows that the impression made by it, when at any one point of |j space, remains on the retina until it reaches that point again. By I ascertaining the speed necessary for completing a luminous circle of i a certain size we can estimate the duration of the impression ; and i by augmenting or diminishing the brilliancy of the ignited point its I duration is found to be affected. A momentary impression of ^ moderate intensity continues for a fraction (according to D’Arcy, \ about an eighth part) of a second. But if the impression be j made for a considerable time on any one point of the retina, it i endures for a longer period after the object is removed. It is j owing to this retentive power of the retina, that the rapid and in- I voluntary act of winking does not interfere with continuous vision I of surrounding objects. i Appearances of objects remaining after the removal of the objects I themselves from the field of vision, come under the head of ocular j spectra. In figure they correspond to the image the object has I thrown on the retina, but they are of the complementary colour I to that of the object. Thus, the spectrum left by a red spot is I green ; by a violet spot, yellow ; by a blue spot, orange ; and these ' ^ours of the spectra are particularly obvious when the eye is di- rected towards a white ground. It is further remarkable, that after long gazing on a very bright light, as the sun’s disc, the remaining spectrum, if viewed on a white surface, assumes the different co- lours in succession, from black, through blue, green, and yellow, to white: if viewed on a black surface, the order of the succession is reversed. These several phenomena can only be referred to jiar- ticular states or modes of excitation of the retina, by means of which alone it is that the differences of the component colours of Avhito light are made evident to our perceptive powers.