SINGING. CHAP. XXXI.] 443 a change which necessarily follows must take place, if they are to produce a similar note, by vibrating only along half their length. Singing.—In singing, a certain succession of tones is produced in definite order by dtering the character of the glottis, just as by varying the conditions under which the air is thrown into vibrations in musical instruments we are enabled to alter the nature of the note. The different varieties of the voice are arranged according to the pitch, which depends upon the length and other conditions of the vocal ligaments, and they are comprised in the following classes: Bass, Tenor, Alto or Contralto, Soprano; the two former belonging to the male, and the two latter to the female sex. Besides these, the Barytone is placed between the Bass and Tenor, and the mezzo- Soprano between the Soprano and Contralto. The compass of the voice varies from one to three octaves. Few singers possess a greater range of voice than the latter, but some of the most cele- brated have much exceeded this—Catalan!’s voice included three and a half octaves. The compass of each kind of voice is shown in the following table:— Soprano. I Contralto. I ^ I C DE F G AB C^DiE^ F^G'A^B* C^D^E^F^G^A^B^C^D^E’F^G^A^B^C* I I Bass. Tenor. Before puberty, the pitch of the male and female voice is nearly the same; but at this period the larynx of the male becomes larger and more prominent, and the vocal ligaments elongated, in virtue of which changes the pitch falls an octave in extent. In eunuchs this alteration does not take place, and they retain the puerile character of voice, which is, nevertheless, louder and stronger than in women. In men the vocal chords are one-third longer than in women, and the larynx is altogether much larger. Unlike musical instruments, the human voice is capable of pro- ducing a vast number of notes, intermediate between the successive tones; and Dodart estimates the number of these which can be appreciated by the ear at three hundred. Influence of the Nerves on Voice.—The inferior laryngeal and the crico-thyroid branch of the superior laryngeal, from the pneumo- gastrie, are the sole channels through which the operations of the will affect the mechanism concerned in the production of the G o 2