CHAP. XVII.] DOUBLENESS OF THE ORGAN OF VISION. 59 I f uniform distance, as in a picture ; and a species of education can I j alone undeceive him. He learns, through touch, that all objects I are not equally near to him, and gradually familiarizes himself with the changes in their apparent size, distinctness, and colours, pro- duced by the movements of his whole body with regard to them. The adjusting faculty is an additional source of correct knowledge. Visual Perception of Motion in Objects. — When an object moves in a direct line, to or from the eye,, its motion is inferred chiefly by the change effected in the size of its image on the retina, as when a locomotive engine, at full speed, approaches the ob- server. When the object moves in an arc, of which the eye is the centre, its motion is known, if the eye be fixed, simply by the move- ment of its image across the retina. But most motions occurring around us are known in both these ways. When, too, the atten- tion is excited to the moving object, the eye is naturally moved in concert with it, in order to keep its image near the axis of the organ where vision is most perfect. Our appreciation of the di- rection and velocity of the motion is thus heightened by the ex- ercise of the muscular sense. Douhleness of the Organ of Vision.—The preceding account has been almost confined to the phenomena of vision with a single eye; it remains to be explained how the doubleness of the organ affects the sense. In some auimals the eyes are so placed as to look in different directions, and in these the images formed are, doubtless, inde- pendently recognized by the animal, just as are those thrown on different parts of the retina of a single eye in ourselves. But where the eyes are both directed the same way, it is manifest that a double image of each object must be received, and that the singleness of the resulting sensation must depend either on our noticing only one of these images, or else on our forming a single conception from I both conjointly. It is easy to prove that the latter is generally the case, although we sometimes derive our information from the affec- tion of only one eye. The eyes are moved in concert by the muscles attached to them, so that their axes always converge towards the object to which they are adjusted. The consequence of this is, that the correspond- ing points of the two images are made to occupy corresponding points of the two retime, or very nearly so, and single vision is • produced. If the two images are unsymmetrically placed on the retime, as where the optic axes do not converge to the object, a