[chap. XXXIV. 506 BLADDER. owing to the arrangement of the muscular fasciculi. The mucous membrane is sometimes forced through the small spaces betiveen the fibres, and thus a number of sacculi are produced, a condition termed sacculated bladder. At the lower part of the bladder is a perfectly smooth and pale surface, of the form of an equilateral triangle, the apex of which points towards the prostate. The ureters open one at each of the posterior angles; and between them there is a prominent line caused by the mucous membrane being somewhat raised in this situation. This triangular portion of the floor of the bladder is called the trigone (triangle), and the mucous membrane is attached more firmly than in other parts to the muscular coat beneath, whence its smooth character. The bladder is only par- tially covered with peritoneum. It is connected in the male with the rectum, and in the female with the uterus and upper part of the vagina by much loose areolar tissue, which permits great freedom of movement of these parts upon one another. The bladder is kept in its position by certain reflexions of peri- toneum passing over bands of white fibrous tissue, or reflexions of the vesical fascia [true ligaments), and by folds of peritoneum alone (fake ligaments). The anterior reflexions of the vesical fascia constitute the ante- rior true ligaments of the bladder. These arise from the lower mar- gin of the pubis on each side of the symphysis. They then pass over the upper surface of the bladder. Many of these fibres are attached to the muscidar fibres, and this ligament may he said to serve as the tendon of attachment of many of the fibres which constitute the detrusor urinse muscle. The fundus of the bladder is connected with the umbilicus by the suspensory ligament of the bladder, a reflexion of peritoneum which encloses the obliterated hypogastric arteries and urachus. The muscular coat of the bladder is composed entirely of un- striped fibre-cells, which are much interwoven, hut may he des- cribed as arranged in two layers, an external longitudinal, and an internal transverse or circular. The latter are exceedingly numerous round the neck of the bladder, wdience they have received the name of Sphincter Vesicse. The longitudinal fibres are most abundant upon the anterior and posterior surfaces of the bladder, and constitute the detrusor urince muscle. The mucous membrane is of a pale colour, and is loosely con-