611 CHAP. XLII.] OF OEGANS OF GENERATION. gated by Miiller. From this canal, in the male, is formed the Weberian organ, or utems masculinus, while in the female it gives origin to the uterus and vagina. Tlie upper part of the exeretory duet of the Wolffian bodies in the male beeomes much modified in character, and is ultimately converted into the epididymis, whilst the lower portion becomes the vas deferens. The lower part of the urino-genital canal, which beconjes con- verted into the external organs of generation, for some time pre- sents a cleft or fissure on its inferior surface, which in male reptiles and birds remains open throughout life, but in mammalia becomes converted into a canal, which extends to the tip of the penis in the male, or along the under surface of the clitoris in the female. Sometimes, however, a portion remains open, and the wall of the urethra is deficient in its anterior part below, when the congenital deformity known as hypospadias results. The folds of skin which bound the furrow ultimately become converted into the scrotum of the male, or labia of the female. The testicles descend into the cavity of the scrotum about the eighth month, but not unfrequently are retained within the abdominal cavity. The authors would refer particularly to the following works with reference to the subjects discussed in the present chapter:—Muller’s Physiology ; Rathke, Eeitrage zur Geschichte der Thienvelt; Valentin, Entwickelungs- Geschichte ; Dr. Handheld Jones on the Structure and Development of the Liver, Phil. Trans, 1849 ; Victor Cams’ System der Thierischen Morphologic ; Reichert, das Entwickelungsleben im Wirbelthier-Reich ; Mr. Marshall’s paper On the development of the great anterior veins in man and mammalia, Phil. Trans., 1850; Mr. Gray’s papers on the development of the ductless glands in the chick, Phil. Ti-ans., 1852 ; and his paper on the development of the retina and optic nerve, and of the membranous labyrinth and auditory neiwe, Phil. Trans., 18.50.