CHAP. XVIII.] 71 THE INTERNAL EAR. Ossicles of the left ear articulated, and seen from the outside and below, m. Head of the malleus, below which is the cilis, or long process, at the root of which is the short process, h. Manubrium, or handle, sc. Short crus; and Ic, long crus of the incus. The body of this bone is seen articulating mth the malleus, and its long crus, through the medium of the orbicular process, here partly concealed, a, with the stapes, s. Base of the stapes. Magnified three diameters. From Arnold. short aiitl a long crus: the former, sc, has a backward direction, and projects into the mastoid cells, the latter, Ic, descends to a level with the fenestra ovalis, bends inwards, and is tipped with a lenticular process, to which the head of the stapes is attached, a. The stapes, or stirrup bone, s, is almost sufficiently described by its name. Its construction is truly elegant. It has a head, necTc, two branches, and a base. The last fits into the fenestra ovalis, to the margin of which it is attached, by membrane, so as to enjoy some freedom of motion. Its neck receives the insertion of the stapedius muscle. The chain of ossicles, now described, stretches across the tympanum by no means m a straight constriction, or neck. g. Processus gra- hue, and its parts are permitted to enjoy some degree of motion, not mere- ly by the double joint existing between them, but by the mode of their attach- ment at either end. These bones are moved by small muscles, two of which are not disputed. These are the internal muscle of the malleus, and the stapedius muscle. Each of these muscles consists of striped fibres. The internal muscle of the malleus, or tensor tympani, occupies the canal above the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube. It is attached in front to the under surface of the petrous bone, and to the cartilage of the Eustachian tube; it proceeds backwards, and ends in a tendon which turns abruptly outwards from the osseous canal in which the muscle is lodged, and is inserted into the short process of the malleus. It draws this part inwards, and thus heightens the tension of the membrana tympani. An anterior mus- cle of the malleus, or laxator tympani muscle, is described by many anatomists as passing from the Glaserian fissure to the processus gracilis. The stapedius muscle occupies the conical interior of the pyramid; its surface is aponeurotic, its interior fleshy, and it ter- minates in a small tendon which emerges at the apex of the pyramid, and then passes to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. In con- traction it would fix the stapes by pulling its neck backwards. It probably compresses the contents of the vestibule. Of the Internal Ear, or Labyrinth.—This is the potential part