266 DIGESTION. [chap. XXV. in structure that of the stomach, and is supplied with glands like f" the solitary glands, which pour out an abundant secretion. | No material change takes place in the fmces as they pass • through the large intestine, excepting such as is produced by the »; absorption of fluid from them by the mucous membrane. Thus the I * faeces become drier the longer they remain in the bowels. I i Defeecation.—The contents of the large intestine are pushed I onwards by a vermicular action, essentially the same as that of the small intestine. Propelled thus in successive portions, they accumulate in the rectum, whence they are prevented from escaping by the contraction of the sphincter. The act of expulsion of the faeces from the rectum, the act of defaecation, is effected partly by the contraction of the muscular fibres of the rectum, excited by the stimulus of distension, and partly by the contrac- tion of the abdominal muscles and of the diaphragm, which by reducing the size of the abdominal cavity, and compressing the intestinal canal at all points, greatly assists the detrusive efforts of the rectum itself. Within certain limits the act of defaecation is favoured by the bulk of the intestinal contents. When the rectum is moderately distended, and its inner surface sufficiently lubricated by mucus, defaecation is effected with but little aid from the abdominal muscles, and mainly by the expulsive force of the rectum, which is sufficiently strong to overcome the passive contraction of the sphincter. If the contents of the rectum be too bulky, they occa- sion over-distension of the gut, and diminish its contractility. Under such circumstances immense accumulations may take place; and, as small portions may continue from time to time to he ex- pelled, under the influence of the abdominal muscles, the practitioner may thus be deceived as to the real nature of the case. On the other hand, when the fseces do not accumulate in the rectum in sufficient quantity to distend the rectum, the act of defaecation is rendered difficult by the imperfect actions of the rectum itself, and great efforts are required on the part of the abdominal muscles, which often cause the protrusion of portions of the mucous mem- brane near the anus. Under these circumstances it is that enemata ; act so favourably, by giving the gut its natural stimulus, that of distension. The action of the abdominal muscles in defaecation is chiefly voluntary, but partly reflex. If the rectum he the seat of irritation, as in dysentery, the reflex action is much increased, and the repeated strainings which occur during the act of defaecation in this disease are, in a great measure, thus caused.