RESPIRATION. [chap. XXIX. 402 to modify the relation which the inspiratory and expiratory powers bear to each other. Thus, wrestlers, boxers, and others, accus- tomed to employ the extraordinary muscles of respiration, in ren- dering the thorax a fixed point from which other muscles might act, ivere found to have an unusual power of expiration. In one wrestler he found the expiratory power exceed nearly four times that of the natural inspiratory power. Valentin in six experiments on young adult males found the force exerted in ordinary^ tranquil inspiration and expiration to be from about one-seventh to three- sevenths of an inch of mercury. Dr. Hutchinson calculates that a man who raises three inches of mercury by an effort of inspiration exerts a force equal to lOOOlbs. In one man he found the mercury raised to such a height (seven inches) as to indicate a force of 2200 lbs., or nearly two tons. When the capacity of the thorax is augmented, the air in the lungs expands so as to keep them in contact Avith the walls, and the external air enters by the trachea to restore the equilibrium. When the dilating force ceases, the walls of the chest contract upon the lungs, and expel a portion of the air, the lungs themselves con- spiring. Use of the Trachealis Muscle.—That the trachealis in contracting must diminish the area of the trachea and bronchia is obvious from its arrangement no less than from experiment. Dr. Williams found that the lungs taken from an animal just killed manifestly con- tracted under the stimulus of galvanism. The fibres are allied to those of the ducts of glands, and of the blood-vessels, and are consequently probably incapable of coinciding in action with the muscles of respiration. It further seems impossible to assign an object to any peristaltic action which might be attributed to them. We are disposed to consider that the trachealis muscle contracts, and dilates the air-tubes slowly, in relation to the activity of the respiratory function at different times of the day, or under other modifying circumstances. Its contraction would tend to limit the quantity of air transmitted in a given time, or Avould quicken its passage. It is in all probability contracted spasmodically in spas- modic asthma, and in the early stages of bronchitis. If it contracts during the sensation that precedes and accompanies coughing, this would facilitate the expulsion of mucus by quickening the expelled current of air. Excitation of the Respiratory Movements.—We have already re- ferred to the share taken by the nerves in respiration. The respi- ratory acts are essentially involuntary, and unconsciously performed.