3G8 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD, [chap, xxviii. velocity, which is uniform when not affected by any extraneous influence; the course and rate of the stream are indicated by blood-particles which are carried along in it, and which seem to chase each other through the various channels and among the little islands of the solid particles of the tissue which the blood is destined to nourish. These particles most frequently pass in a single row, with a variable interval between them: sometimes, however, they seem to rush in pairs, or in threes, according to the size of the capillary channels through which they flow. Secondly, it will he noticed that the greatest velocity of the stream is in its centre, a fact which comports with what is observed in rivers and other chan- nels through which water flows, while towards the circumference the stream becomes much slower, so that the layer of fluid which is in immediate contact with the capillary wall is almost or completely still. The particles are carried along in the centre or rapid part of the stream, and but occasionally a solitary particle seems attracted towards the circumference. This is most frequently a colourless corpuscle, so that sometimes several colourless corpuscles are seen at intervals in contact with the wall of the capillary, as if drawn to it by some special attractive force, or moving much more slowly around the central mass of red particles. The sudden change from a rapid to a slow movement, or to perfect stillness, when one of these particles is thus drawn from the centre to the circumference of the stream, serves to display, in a very satisfactory manner, the peculiar feature of this portion of the contents of the capillary, which, from its apparent stillness and from the paucity of hlood-particles in it, has been called the still layer of the liquor sanguinis. The exist- ence of this still layer is doubtless a purely physical phenomenon, identical with that which is known to take place when fluids pass through inorganic capillary tubes, in which the circumferential layer seems to adhere or to be attracted to the wall of the tube, and it would clearly favour the transmission of nutrient or other material dissolved in the liquor sanguinis, through the wall of the vessel, in obedience to a force of attraction between the blood and the tissue. This still layer forms but a small portion of the whole capillary stream—perhaps about .^th or j^th its breadth ; it is greater when the circulation is slower; it is also broader, and therefore more visible when a vessel makes a bend. The application of cold to the capillaries increases the breadth of this layer, whilst heat produces an opposite change. The capillary vessels dilate or contract, under particular circum- stances. Their dilatation is passive, and due either to an increased