CHAl’. XXVII.] THE COLOURLESS CORPUSCLES. 303 are generated in the liver, as first pointed out by Weber, and in the mesenteric and lymphatic glands, and from these sources sup- Fig. 181. I / if ^ f r plied to the blood. In this fluid they undergo a transformation into the completely formed blood-cor- puscles, by the removal of the granules, the increased develop- ment of the nucleus, and the generation of colouring matter, excepting in the mammiferous corpuscle, whose ultimate change seems to consist in the complete absorption of the nucleus, accord- ing to Kolliker, or the removal of the wall of the cell, according to Wharton Jones. Now as there can be no doubt that in the adult the lymphatic and chyliferous systems, aflbrd a source for the constant develop- ment of particles identical with the colourless corpuscles, and as such corpuscles are always found in considerable propoi^tion in the blood (being more numerous under circumstances unfavourable to normal changes, as in inflammations), it seems very reasonable to infer that similar transformations of colourless into coloured particles are going Granules, granule-cells, and red blood-corpus- cles from the embryo chick at the twptieth day of incubation, a a. Granules, some being enveloped by a faint cell-wall, and granule-ceUs with coarse granules, b b, red blood-corpuseles. Mag. 200 diam. Fig. 182. Fig. 183. a. Granules of which the cell- wall is not visible, b. Granule- cells and red corpuscles. Mag. 200 diam. a. Nucleated cells, (a), red corpuscles, (b), and granules from the chick on the 20th day of incubation. Mag. 200 diam. on in the adult as in the embryo, and that the lymphatic and lacteal systems must be at least one, and that a fertile source, from which red corpuscles are being continually supplied to the blood. If, however, we reject this view of the relation of the colourless to the coloured corpuscles, then we must regard them as inde- pendent particles, each having its special function, and it devolves upon the advocates of this view to suggest the office, and to explain the mode of origin and decay of each.