INNERVATION. 46 CHAP. XVII. To apply this to the eye.—If a luminous object, as the flame of a candle, be placed eight or ten inches in front of the organ, some rays fall on the sclerotic and are reflected; the more central ones fall on the cornea: some are reflected, and others pass through it, are slightly converged by it, and enter the aqueous humor, ivhich, being probably of the same refracting power, does not alter their course. Passing onwards, some meet the iris and are absorbed or reflected by it, whilst others advance through the pupil. Thus rays, falling on a large extent of the cornea, are converged so as to fall on the lens. By the convexity of the surface of the lens, as well as by the greater density of that body towards its centre, this conver- gence is much increased. Lastly, by their passage into the rarer medium of the vitreous humor the rays are further converged by the refraction of each ray from the perpendicular to the point of inci- dence, and the several pencils which they form are brought to as many foci in the retina. And still further, the rays from the oppo- site points of the luminous object, by reason of the change of direc- tion which they undergo through these successive refractions, cross one another, (the angle of crossing being called the visual angle,) and thus the image of the flame on the retina appears inverted. This inversion of the image may be exhibited by a model, repre- senting the transparent media of the eye, with a retina of ground glass; or it may be shown on a recent eye by simply removing the opaque coats behind the retina, or in the eye of a white rabbit, after removing the muscles and areolar tissue around it. When the retina corresponds, or nearly so, to the points of con- vergence of the several pencils of light, distinct vision of the object is obtained ; and the distance for distinct vision is ordinarily about ten inches. If that distance be increased or diminished (no change being produced in the eye), vision is indistinct; for when the object is removed to a greater distance from the eye, it is obvious that the focus will he moved forwards, or will fall short of the retina; and when the object is approximated, the focus will be moved backwards or beyond the retina ; in both which cases the same point of the re- tina will receive rays from several points of the object. Hence it is, that when the eye is adapted to distinct vision at a distance of ten inches, we cannot distinctly see objects at a greater or less dis- tance. From the cause of this, which has been just alluded to, however, it is evident that, provided the rays unite very nearly on the retina, vision, especially of large objects, may prove sufficiently distinct, although not perfectly clear. Hence the distinction of Jurin between distinct and perfect vision is worthy of being borne