[chap. XL, GENERATION. 572 character, and were produced by the active vibration of excecd- ingly delicate cilia, which had become developed upon the sur- face of the yolk. This interesting movement may be observed in the ova of frogs and other animals. It can always be seen in those of the common water-snail {Limneem stagnalis), and forms a most interesting object for observation. Cleavage of the Yolk.—Soon after the ovum has become im- pregnated, and the germinal vesicle has disappeared, the yolk of the mammalian animal divides into two large cells, and each of these again subdivides into two, so that the yolk mass now consists of four cells, which soon become sixteen in number; these sixteen, thirty-two; and so on, until at last the yolk consists of an aggregation of spherical ceU-like bodies. Each one of these, in the mammalian ovum, is about the 1-2000th of an inch in diameter, and consists of a central light portion, and an external dark part. The external part, which is composed entmely of yolk granules, is not covered by an investing membrane, but the yolk granules seem to be simply aggregated round the central clear vesicle, which, when set free, looks v'^ery like an oil-globule. According to Bischoff, this vesicle cannot be looked upon in the light of a nucle- ated embryonic cell. It is probably more correctly considered as a nucleus, around which yoke granules have become attracted. The process of cleavage of the yolk is very easily observed in the eggs of the batrachia (frogs, newts, etc.), in which animals the change may he watched from day to day. The division of the yolk has been also very carefully investigated in the ova of certain entozoa, in different species of which two distinct modes of division have been demonstrated. Kolliker found in the ova of certain species of Ascaris {nigrovenosa, acvu- minata, and succisa), that after the disappearance of the germinal vesicle, a new nucleated cell appeared in the centre of the yolk, and in a short time two such cells manifested themselves. Round each one of these cells por- tions of yolk-mass collected, so that soon the entire yolk was divided into Ftg. 269. CleavaRe of the yolk in Ascaris nigrovenosa and acuminata, shewing succi Siivc steps of the process of yolk-cleavage. The three figures to the left are after Kolliker, the two others after Bagge.