380 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. from the regurgitation which takes place, into the large venous trunks from the auricles at each systole. The veins possess a certain tonic influence similar to that of arteries, hy which they can adapt themselves to the varying quan- tity of their contained blood. This is doubtless due to the presence of muscular fibres in the tunics of veins already described; the power of these fibres to alter the calibre of the vein is clearly ■demonstrable by the influence of galvanism,* which causes an ap- preciable diminution in the size of the vessel at the point of transit of the current."}* The flow of blood in the veins, then, it may be concluded, is maintained chiefly by that same force through which it is driven through the arteries and capillaries, aided by the sort of suction in the centripetal direction which is caused hy inspiration and hy the diastole of the auricles, and promoted likewise by the contrac- tion of the various muscles, among or through which the A'eins pass, and by the position and mechanism of the valves. It is proper to observe that the venous circulation being moved by less force than the arterial (the heart’s power having already very much expended itself on the arteries and capillaries), is more influenced by gravity—either favourably or otherwise—than the arterial. Hence, in dependent positions, as in the lower ex- tremities, when the blood has to ascend against gravity, the veins ai’e apt to su^ell, and to acquire a permanent dilatation and thickening of their coats from the retardation of the current * Sec Kolliker’s experiinciits—Subold and Kollikcr’s Journal. t While these pages were passing through the press (Feh. 1852), Mr. Wharton Jones announced, in a paper read to the Royal Society, the discovery that the veins of the bat’s wings contract and dilate rhythmically, and that they are provided with valves, some of which completely, others only partially, oppose regurgitation of blood. The rhythmical contractions and dilatations are constantly going on, and that at the rate of ten contractions in the minute. During contraction the flow of blood in the vein is accelerated, and on the cessation of the contraction the flow is checked, with a tendency to regurgitation. But this check is usually only momentary ; already, even while the vein is in the act of again becoming dilated, the onward flow recommences and goes on, though with comparative slowness, until the vein contracts again. It is the heart’s action which maintains the onward flow of blood during the dilatation of the vein, whilst it is the contraction of the vein coming in aid of the heart’s action, which causes the acceleration. Mr. Jones states that he has not been able to observe unequivocal evidence of tonic contrac- tility in veins, as Kolliker’s experiments indicate ; he, likewise, affirms, in opposition to a statement of Mr. Paget, quoted at p. 330, that nowhere do the arteries and veins of the bat’s wing communicate, the only communication being the usual one through the medium of capillaries.—Proceedings of the Royal Society, F’eb. 1852.