191 CHAP. XXIV.] TDE STOMACH. fibres are not regularly longitudinal and circular as in the (esophagus, and as in the intestines. The outer or longitudinal set may be best traced along the lesser curvature and near the pylorus; and those beneath cross them either at right angles or obliquely, according to their situation. Towards the lesser extremity the fibres of both layers are much thicker, and particularly so at the pylorus itself, where they form a circular constriction projecting the lining mem- brane, and capable of acting as a sphincter muscle. They are of the unstriped variety. The mucQUS membrane of the stomach is thick and soft, and thrown into numerous irregular folds by the contraction of the muscular coat, except in the distended state of the organ. To be capable of this folding, it is separated from the muscular wall by a very lax areolar tissue, containing no fat, but filled with the vessels belonging to the mucous membrane, and also containing nerves. This is the coat wrongly styled nervous by the older writers. The stomach is freely supplied with blood by the three divisions of the co3liac axis, the coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The branches of the arteries reach it along its borders, soon pierce its muscular tunic, and form plexuses in the sub-mucous areolar tissue, where they break up into numberless finer ramifications, which penetrate the mucous coat. The veins accompany the arteries in their distribu- tion, and discharge themselves into the vena portae. Both orders of vessels are very tortuous, and their contiguous branches everywhere anastomose freely, so as to distribute the sanguineous supplies equally during the changing volume of the organ. The nerves of the sto- mach are derived from the pneumogastrics and from the ccellac plexus. They advance from the lesser curvature over both surfaces, and after supplying the muscular walls, enter the areolar layer under the secreting lining membrane. The mucous membrane of the stomach demands and will well re- pay an attentive study. It is of that variety which has been termed compound mucous membrane, i. e. its thickness is made up of an in- finite multitude of tubular Involutions of the simple membrane, with intermediate vascular, and other tissues sent up into it from below The simple membrane consists of basement membrane and epithe- lium, both of which are found throughout. The vessels are uni- formly on the deep surface of the basement membrane, and the epithelium on its opposite surface. • The compound mucous mem- brane of the stomach is thinnest near the oesophagus, and is usually of a pinker colour in the middle region, and paler towards the pylorus.