CHAP. XVII.] CHOllOID COAT OF THE EYE. 21 the exact maintenance of the curvature of the cornea, so ne- cessary for correct vision. Tliis lamina extends only to the circumference of the cornea, where it becomes thinner; and it ceases at the border of the iris, in a manner hereafter to be described. Of the epithelium of the aqueous humor.—The elastic lamina is itself lined by an exceedingly delicate epithelium, which exactly resembles that existing on serous membranes, (fig. Ill, o, p; see also p. 129, vol. i.) This epithelium is probably concerned in the secretion of the aqueous humor, but it does not extend over the whole surface with which that fluid is in contact. It is probably limited to the cornea. Of the Choroid.—On turning aside the sclerotic and cornea (fig. 112), the choroid, with its process the iris, is exposed. The choroid is of course perforated behind by the optic nerve. Around this it adheres pretty firmly to the sclerotic, but in the rest of its extent very slightly, and only by the medium of a slender web {lamina fusca), and of those vessels and nerves which pass from the one coat to the other. The rupture of these adhesions occasions a flocculent appearance of the choroid, and sets free some of the brown colouring matter with which its structure is loaded. There is no serous cavity between the sclerotic and choroid, as some have imagined, for a true epithe- lium is wanting, though the lamina fusca contains nuclei. The choroid, on coming up to the cornea, gives off its process the iris, and it there adheres intimately to the sclerotic by a very narrow ring of white tissue—the ciliary ligament. For an eighth of an inch behind this, however, it is coated by a semi-transparent band, which we shall distinguish as the ciliary muscle, and the fibres of which radiate from the cornea. The choroid contains some fibrous tissue, resembling that of the sclerotic; but it is composed principally of blood-vessels and pig- ment-cells. It has been usual to describe it as having two layers, an arterial and a venous ; an incorrect view. It is in fact essentially a thin lamina of capillaries, disposed in a close network, the meshes of which are rather smaller behind than in front. This plexus forms the inner surface of the choroid, and has been known as the tunica Buyschiana. The arteries supplying it, and the veins carrying off its blood, come to it and leave it at very numerous points, but on its outer surface only, where they are so thickly arranged, side by side, as to appear to form the whole of that surface. The veins in particular are large and numerous, and disposed in beautiful curves, converging to four or five trunks, before quitting the choroid, and