CHAP. XXV. 217 THE INTESTINAL CANAL. I tills forms the right or ascending colon ; at the liver it turns to the I left, and passes, in an arched form, across the abdomen from the right i': to the left hypochondrium, thus forming the transverse colon, or the l. arch of the colon ; it then turns downward, passes through the left j lumbar region to the left iliac fossa; this portion, which is straight i or nearly so, is the left or descending colon. In the left iliac fossa I the intestine becomes somewhat curved, and is rather loosely attached to the wall of the pelvis; its curve resembles the letter S ; this portion terminates in the pelvis, and is named the sigmoid dexure of the colon; lastly, this becomes continuous with the pelvic or terminal portion of the intestine, which, although far from being straight, is designated intestinum rectum or commonly the rectum. This opens externally at the anus, its mucous mem- brane becoming continuous with the skin at that orifice. The small intestine is arranged in many convolutions, and, with the exception of its upper portion, the duodenum, it is quite loose in the cavity of the abdomen and even in that of the pelvis, occupying, the central part of those cavities. The large intestine or colon embraces it on the right, above, and on the left. Three portions of the small intestine have always been recognised by anatomists, which, although not distinguished by any well-marked external boundaries, exhibit in their mucous membrane features (to be pointed out hereafter) which form their most appropriate means of distinction. The upper portion is sufficiently distinct from the rest by its dilated form, its horse-shoe curve, and by being closely fixed to the spine, in the greatest part of its extent, by peritoneum. This is the duodenum: it forms about the first twelve inches of the small intestine. The middle portion of the small intestine is jejunum, and the terminal portion is the ileum. These have no external mark to distinguish the one from the other. The jejunum is wider than the ileum, and its coats are thicker ; the intestine tapers as it approaches the coecum. The whole Intestinal tube is more or less completely covered by the serous membrane of the abdomen, the peritoneum. The duodenum above and the rectum below are least covered by it; the rest is almost entirely enveloped, a small portion being left uncovered where the blood-vessels enter the intestine, and where the peritoneum passes to the abdominal wall. Each portion of intestine is attached to the abdominal wall by a process of peritoneum, the duodenum and the rectum very closely, the rest more or less loosely. The process of peritoneum which connects VOL. II. Q