[chap. XVII. 34 INNERVATION. already described. It only remains to add, that the anterior wall of the capsule is nearly four times thicker than the posterior ; greater strength being required in front, where the surface is free in the aqueous humor, than behind, where it is adherent to the tissue of the vitreous body. The diminution in thickness does not occur abruptly at the rim of the lens, but commences gradually on the anterior surface near the rim, at a line corresponding to the attach- ment of the anterior wall of the canal of Petit. The capsule is perfectly closed, and cannot allow of the passage of either vessel or nerve to its interior. The hody of the lens is constructed in a manner calculated to excite admiration. Its superficies, by which it comes into contact Fig. ]22. a. Cells connecting the body of the lens to its capsule fhu- man). b. Fibres of the lens, with slightly sinuous edges (human), c. Ditto from the Ox,'with finely serrated edges, d. Ditto from the Cod; the teeth much coarser.—Magnified 320 diameters. N with the capsule, consists of a layer of extremely transparent nucleated cells represented in fig. 122, a. These cells form an organ- ized connecting medium between the body and capsule of the lens, and there is no interspace not occupied by them. After death they very soon be- come loaded with water (absorbed most probably by the capsule from the aqueous humor), which is the aqua Morgagni., that some have sup- posed to exist naturally between the capsule and body of the lens near its border. The body of the lens is composed of fibres superimposed on one another, and united side to side in laminae, of which many hundreds must exist. The mode of arrangement of the fibres is, however, more artificial than this. In the mammalia in general there are visible on the front surface, when the lens has slightly lost its transparency, three lines, extending from the centre two-thirds to the border, and dividing it into three equal parts: and on the opposite surface three similar lines exist, having an intermediate position. From and to these lines the fibres pass from surface to surface. Thus, a fibre proceeds from the centre in front, advances midway between two of the lines over the border, and comes on the opposite surface to the extremity of one of the lines. Others pa.ss from the extremities of the lines in front, and are lost in the centre