CHAP. XX. 128 INNERVATION. posterior roots of the lower cerviccal nerves. By the union of all the fascicles the nerve is formed, and it enters the cranial cavity from that of the spine through the foramen magnum. Sometimes some of the upper roots of the spinal accessory nerve coalesce with the posterior roots of the suhoccipital and the second and third cervical nerves. This appears to be nothing more than a junction of the fibres of two nerves which emerge from the nervous centre in close proximity to each other. Very shortly after the escape of the spinal accessory nerve from the foramen lacerum, it divides into an internal and an external branch. The former coalesces with the vagus, where its second ganglion is formed, and, according to some physiologists, supplies the motor branches of that nerve; the latter passes outwards and down- wards, through the deeper fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscle, to which it gives some branches, and anastomoses with branches of the second and third cervical nerves; and having crossed the trian- gular space in the neck between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, it penetrates the latter muscle at its deep surface, and is distributed in it, anastomosing with other branches of the cervical plexus. We learn from the anatomy of this nerve that it supplies two great muscles, which play an important part in effecting certain movements of the head and shoulder, and, in a secondary manner, contribute to the actions of respiration, especially to those of a forced or extraordinary kind ; and likewise that it forms a junction with the vagus nerve by a branch which consists of a considerable number of fibres. There can be no doubt, from anatomy, that those fibres of the nerve Avhich pass to the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles are principally motor, for their main distribution is to these muscles; and all experimenters agi’ee in stating that, whenever stimulated, they excite these muscles to contract. Anatomy, however, equally indicates that these muscles derive motor power from branches of the cervical plexus likewise. The ofiice of the internal branch, which incorporates itself with the vagus nerve, is not so easily determined. Scarpa, Arnold, Bischoff, Bendz, and others, viewed it as contributing the motor fibres to that nerve, bearing to it the same relation as the antei’ior to the posterior root of a spinal nerve. An objection to this view, although not an insuperable one, is sug- gested by the origin of the nerve, which seems more in accordance with that of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves than with their anterior roots, and this is especially the case with the lower fascicles