172 [chap. XXIII. DIGESTION. rests on the dentine, wliich presents a number of minute depressions for the reception of the deep ends of the vertical rods, a number of which rest in each ; and the superficial surface, though said to be at first coated w'ith a thin film of osseous tissue, is afterw'ards ren- dered bare by the earliest movements of attrition in masticating the food, and then becomes the free surface of the crown of the tooth. The rods of enamel are about —th of an inch in diameter, and they pursue a more or less meandering course, which must augment their power of resisting external force. It is evident that their vertical position admirably adapts them to sustain pres- sure, and withstand the ef- fects of force directed upon the surface of the tooth; while, at the same time, the interstices or chinks inter- vening between them, prin- A. Vertical section of the enamel, shewing the fibres, . ^ \ with their cross lines. Cipally at tlieir ailO[leS of lUX- n. Fibres of the enamel, seen endwise. ° ^ , Magnified 350 diameters. From Retzius. tapOSltlOll, are arranged ill the most suitable manner for permeation by the fluids derived from the subjacent dentinal tubuli. These tubuli, indeed, may be seen to communicate directly with the interstitial passages of the enamel. The enamel rods are further marked, at pretty close and regular intervals, by cross lines, which, how^ever, are far from constant, and of doubtful nature: some suppose them explained by the process of developement. The enamel rods are connected together by some remnant of the original organic matrix in which their earthy poi’tion was at first deposited, and wdiich is represented by the dark lines or chinks wliich appear to bound and isolate the rods. As the rods are placed vertically on the surface of the den- tine, which is not an even one, they are not everywhere parallel or of equal length, but are truncated where they abut against each other over a hollow, and in such parts are most liable to decay. In many parts, how^ever, near the dentine their vertical position seems disordered; they are curiously contorted, and neighbouring series of them are variously inclined, so as to lean against one another, wliile the same rods nearer the surface assume an upright and parallel course. The enamel on a vertical section further shews dark markings running obliquely across the fibres ffig. 150, Fig. 152. A