CHAP. XXV.] THE INTESTINAL GLANDS. 235 In Asiatic cholera all these glands become greatly enlarged from the accumulation of a large quantity of granular matter in the vesicles. Brunner’s glands exhibit a remarkable immunity from disease, and in this, as in other respects, they resemble the pancreas. In concluding the account of the anatomy of the intestinal tube, the following summaxy of the special characters of each portion of it will serve to indicate more cleai’ly what we have alluded to above,—that the physiological anatomy of the mucous membrane affords the best basis for its subdivision into portions, each of which, no doubt, exercises its special function in the digestive process:— In the duodenum the mucous membrane exhibits, 1. cells and tubes like pyloric cells, gradually passing into straight Lieberkuhn’s tubes, which exist throughout the rest of the gut; 2. villi com- mencing in the upper part by the elongation of the septa between the cells, the villi becoming extremely numerous and crowded together in the inferior two-thirds; 3. in the lowest third a few solitary glands; 4. Brunner’s glands very numei’ous in the upper part, gradually diminishing in size and number below; 5. valvulee conniventes well developed in the inferior half. The orifice by which the biliary and pancreatic ducts open into the intestine, is placed where Brunner’s glands have either become very few or have ceased. In most of the Carnivora which we have examined these ducts open below the region of Brunner’s glands; the point at which they pour their contents into the bowels has therefore no constant relation to the duodenum, if, as it is conve- nient to do, we may make the presence of these glands the charac- teristic mark of that portion of the intestine. In the jeju/nu/m the mucous membrane is characterized by, 1. Lieberkuhn’s follicles and villi well developed; 2. valvulae conniventes larger and more complete than elsewhere; 3. solitary glands. The ileum exhibits, 1. Lieberkuhn’s follicles and villi well-deve- loped down to the ilio-coecal valve ; 2. valvulse conniventes, which gradually diminish towards the termination of the ileum and disap- pear; 3. solitary glands; 4. aggregate glands, or Peyer's patches, which are small at the upper part of the ileum, but greatly increase in size at its lowest portion. may be found in a paper by Dr. Handfield Jones, “ On the Intestinal Mucous Membrane.”—Lond. Med. Gazette, 1848.