386 CHAP, XXIX. RESPIRATION. They form a double organ, with a single common air-tube, the trachea^ and a single common pulmonary artery^ supplying the venous blood. These vessels branch first into a right and left, and then into many subordinate ramifications up to the ultimate air- cells and capillaries. Four veins carry off the aerated blood to the left side of the heart. Being penetrated by the air, the lungs are the lightest organs in the body. In the foetus, before breathing, they are small, and transmit only so much blood as is requisite for their own growth, but when the air enters, their volume augments, their absolute weight increases in consequence of the greater afilux of blood, while their specific gravity diminishes. Krause estimates the average absolute weight of the lungs in men to be three pounds and a half, in women two pounds and three-quarters, and the left to be smaller than the right by one- tenth. The weight, as compared with that of the whole body, is as one to forty or fifty. In shape the lungs are adapted to that of the cavity in which they are lodged; their apices rise into the neck, their bases rest on the diaphragm, between them lies the heart with the great vessels. They are invested by a serous covering, the pleura, which, after lining the thoracic walls, is reflected over them at their root, and dips into those fissures, which serve to subdivide them im- perfectly, the right into two, the left into three, lobes. The trachea descends in the middle line from the larynx (which is a complicated developement of it for the protection of the orifice of the respiratory organ, and for the production of sound, and which will be afterwards described), as far as opposite the second or third dorsal vertebra, being straight, sub-cylindrical, flat behind, and about three-quarters of an inch wide. It is held permanently open by from sixteen to twenty cartilaginous rings, flattened in the direction of the wall in which they are imbedded, and deficient behind to an extent of one-third. Of these the highest is the thickest and the lowest is adapted by its shape to the bifurcation of the trachea into the two bronchi. The free ends of these cartilages are sometimes forked, and contiguous ones are now and then joined. They are immediately invested with peri- chondrium, a dense, white fibrous, inelastic, membrane, and are connected by a continuation of it extending between their borders and ends. This inelastic membrane, by its toughness, resists undue extension in the longitudinal direction. Looking on the trachea behind, we observe the space between the ends of the cartilages covered with irregularly interwoven