322 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD, [chap, xxviii. arteries are in their greatest state of contraction, the quantity of blood circulating in them being reduced to a minimum. This state of contraction Hunter assumed to be the result of muscular force, and with good reason, as, after stretching, the artery did not con- tract to its previous dimensions. The stretching destroyed the muscular force, leaving whatever contraction would take place, on the removal of the stretching, to he effected by the elastic force. Thus a piece of the aorta of a horse, when slit up and opened on a plane surface, measured five inches and a half; on being stretched it lengthened to ten inches and a half; the stretching power being removed it contracted again to six inches, “ which,” says Hunter, “ we must suppose to be the middle state of the vessel.”* These powers inherent in the arterial wall, of yielding under a distending force, and reacting upon its contents with a force equal to that of the primitive disturbing one, and also that of muscular con- traction, exercise an important influence in promoting or directing the circulation of the blood tbrough tbe arterial system. The elastic element of the arterial tunic is always developed in the direct ratio of the size of the artery; and the muscular element, although perhaps not bearing an inverse proportion to the size of the artery, yet becomes more prominent and distinct’as the elastic tissue diminishes in coarseness and in strength. Thus it is in the smaller arteries that we notice the most perfect arrangement of muscular fibres, and in these the fibrous tissue is reduced to its in- ternal longitudinal fibrous layer, the external circular fibres having disappeared. Blood-vessels and nerves are freely distributed to the arterial tunics. To the former, allusion has already been made in describ- inof their external tunic. We have no evidence that these blood- vessels penetrate further than to a slight depth into the fibrous tunic. It is probable, therefore, that they are destined to nourish the external tunic, and a portion (chiefly the muscular element) of the fibrous tunic, leaving the remainder of the arterial wall to imbibe its nutrition directly from tbe blood itself. The general arrangement of the nerves on the outer coat of arteries has been already described (vol. i. p. 223, and vol. ii. Chap, xx.) The plexuses formed are chiefly conducted by the arteries to parts beyond : but they also furnish filaments penetrating to the muscular fibres, and bringing these into relation with the nervous system. The arterial system may be described as taking its starting point * Hunter on tlic Blood, Inflammation, &c., 4to. ed. p. 124, et scq.