Ill CHAPTER XX. OF THE COMPOUND ENCEPHALIC NEEVES. THE FIFTH PAIR. THE EIGHTH PAIR. It is proposed to devote this chapter to the examination of the . physiological history of those encephalic nerves which, from their compound nature, combine the functions of sensitive and motor i nerves. These are the fifth pair and the eighth pair. The fifth pair of nerves is one of the most interesting and ex- tensively connected nerves in the body. It presents a remarkable • resemblance to spinal nerves in its mode of origin, a fact which hears . strongly on the determination of its functions. The first point of resemblance is that its origin is by two roots, one large, and the other small; and secondly, its larger root is involved in a ganglion, the two roots being quite distinct until after the formation of the ganglion, when the lesser one coalesces with one of the nerves which springs from the ganglion, to form the inferior maxillary nerve. The two roots are implanted in the same column of the medulla oblongata. They remain, however, quite distinct in the substance of the medulla. Penetrating the latter at the crus cerebelli, between the transverse fibres of the pons, each root may be traced through a separate hut nearly parallel course downwards to the olivary column, where each forms its separate connexion with the vesicular matter. The ganglion {ganglion Gasserii) which is formed upon the larger root of the fifth nerve is situate in the middle fossa of the cranium upon the upper surface of the petrous bone, and the middle lacerated i foramen, and behind the great ala of the sphenoid. It is of a trian- : gular form, its base curvilinear and directed forwards and outwards. From this base there proceed three nerves, the ophthalmic on the inside, the superior maxillary in the middle, and the inferior maxil- lary on the outside. Of these the first two consist exclusively of fibres derived from the larger root and ganglion ; the third, the inferior maxillary, is composed of fibres derived from both roots. This, therefore, is the only portion of the fifth nerve which is strictly compound, and it constitutes the largest portion of the nerve. The distribution of the nerve may be understood by reference