CHAP. XXXI.] VOCAL CHORDS. 455 Tlie Epiglottis is a, remarkable valve-like eartilage—in shape, like the spout of a ewer. It seems to issue from the angle between the alre of the thyroid eartilage to which it is attached by a stalk-like ligament. It projects above the root of the tongue, and lies between that organ and the aperture of the larynx, like a valve, which is pressed over the glottis when the tongue is re- tracted. Its upper border is convex, and its posterior surface is concave, transversely convex in its length. It is a smooth and very flexible cartilage, covered by mucous membrane, but penetrated by holes and depressions in which are lodged the numerous mucous glands of the membrane that covers it. Such is the skeleton of the larynx:—it hangs from the hyoid bone, suspended by the thyro-hyoid ligament and muscles, and, through the hyoid apparatus and some muscles, it is brought into connexion with the lower jaw and the base of the cranium. Vocal Chords or Superior Thyro-Anjtenoid Ligaments.—The various cartilages of the larynx are connected to each other by ligaments. Of these the most important and interesting, as being the essential part of the mechanism for producing vocal sounds, are the bands of fibrous tissue which extend from the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilages to the angle between the wings of the thyroid. These are the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or, in physiological language, the vocal chor’ds. They are bands of elastic ligament, extending between the points named {t, V, fig. 212). They do not, in the quiescent state, lie parallel to each other, but converge from behind forwards: their relative position, as well as their tension, can be varied to a considerable degree by reason of the mobility of the arytenoid cartilages. The length of the vocal chords is greater in the adult male than in the female—being as 3 : 2. The elastic chordae vocales are connected by an expansion of elastic tissue with the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, which arc small bands of the same tissue extending from the apices of the arytenoid cartilages to the hollow angle of the thyroid, and separated from the inferior by a space called the ventricle of the larynx. These superior ligaments are likewise known as the false chorda vocales. Much importance is attached by Lauth, Muller, and others to the fact, that many of the ligaments of the larynx are composed of clastic tissue, and connected together by a fibrous expansion of a similar structure. Lauth describes the elastic tissue of the larynx as starting from the angle of the thyroid cartilage between the