RESPIRATION. 410 [chap. XXIX. as well as those of E-egnault and Reiset, have, however, shown that this relation is by no means eonstant. From the above considerations, it is evident, that the respiratory changes cannot be efficiently carried on, unless a certain proportion of air be assigned to each individual living in a confined space. For if the cubic capacity of the apartment be below a certain standard, the air becomes so contaminated by the increased quan- tity of carbonic acid expired, as to produce a highly deleterious effect upon the health. Probably between four and five hundred cubic feet of air pass through the lungs daily, and in the same period, about twenty- three cubic feet of oxygen gas are absorbed. The size of an apartment, therefore, in which persons are confined should be such, and its ventilation should be so arranged, that each individual may be supplied with the above quantity of pure air as a minimum. The cubic capacity of such rooms should not be less than 800 cubic feet for each person inhabiting them. Leblanc found, that in the Chamber of Deputies in Paris, each individual was supplied with only from 353 to 706 cubic feet of air per hour; and in the air issuing from the apartment, he found from 2 to 4 of carbonic acid in 1000 parts by weight. This proportion of fresh air was probably too small, since it has been found that 1 per cent, of carbonic acid produces a deleterious effect upon the system when breathed for a long time continuously. In the Model Prison, Pentonville, from 1800 to 2700 cubic feet of fresh ah’ pass into each cell per hour. In hospitals, the number of patients in each ward should be so arranged, that not less than from 800 to 1000 cubic feet should be assigned to each. In the new King’s College Hospital, each patient has from 1850 to 2500 cubic feet of air. Dr. Snow has shown that the bad effects of air deteriorated by respiration, are due not only to the increased quantity of carbonic acid which it contains, but also to the diminution of its oxygen. From his experiments upon animals he has been led to conclude, “ that 5 or 6 per cent, by volume of carbonic acid cannot exist in the air without danger to life, and that less than half this amount will soon be fatal, when it is formed at the expense of the oxygen of the air.” Exhalation of Nitrogen.—MM. Regnault and Reiset have shown that an extremely small quantity of nitrogen is constantly exhaled, its proportion varying according to the nature of the food. After prolonged fasting, this gas, however, appears to be absorbed, in- stead of being exhaled. Barral found that the quantity of nitrogen