CHAP. XXI.] THE SPLANCHNIC NEllVES. 137 superior cervicul ^uii^lioii. It is connectecl witli tlie fiftlij sixtlij and seventh cervical nerves, and sometimes with the first dorsal. The arterial and visceral branches of this ganglion are, 1. A nerve which accompanies the vertebral artery into the canal formed by the transverse processes of the cervical vertehrie. This nerve forms a plexus round the vertebral artery and communicates with branches of the five lowest cervical nerves. There is no satisfac- tory evidence that this nerve passes up to the arteries of the brain. It seems chiefly a nerve to the vertebral artery, but doubtless also contains fibres from the cervical spinal nerves, which probably have a different destination. 2. The second branch of this ganglion is the third or inferior cardiac nerve which passes down, frequently in company with the middle cardiac nerve, to the plexus on the heart. 3. Branches which encircle the subclavian artery, in the first part of its course. It is worthy of note that the most important visceral branches of the cervical portion of the sympathetic are destined to an organ, the heart, which is situated in the thorax at a considerable distance from their source. 3. The Thoracic portion of the sympathetic consists of a series of ganglia, corresponding, or nearly so, in number to that of the vertebrae; the ganglia lie upon the heads of the ribs, and are mostly small in size, and triangular in form. The first thoracic ganglion is often fused with the last cervical. Besides the branches of communication with the spinal nerves, there are arterial branches which pass to the aorta, and there are also branches which pass into the jiulmonary plexus. But the most remarkable nerves which proceed from these gan- glia, are the greater and the lesser splanchnic nerves. The great splanchnic nerve arises by separate roots, probably from all the thoracic ganglia, more obviously from the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth ; these roots unite to form a round cord, as large, if not larger, than the trunk of the sympathetic. This nerve passes alongside of the bodies of the vertebrae obliquely downwards and forwards, enters the abdomen by piercing the diaphragm, and ends in a large and complex ganglion placed by the side, and in front of the aorta, close to the origin of the caeliac artery ; this is the great semilunar ganglion."^ * The composition of this nerve deserves particular attention as illustrating the compound nature of the ramifications of the sympathetic. It maybe regarded as the ’Aggregate of a scries ot visceral nerves proceeding from the intercostal nerves, each of which,as it passes over the sympathetic ganglion immediately adjacent to the nerve