CHAP. XVIII.] 87 HEARING. muscle receives branch from the facial nerve. The anastomosis of I Jacobson results from the subdivision of the tympanic branch of the glossophai-yngeal nerve, which enters the cavity of the tympanum below, and passing over the jiromontory gives off branches to the mem- branes of the fenestrse, and Eustachian tube, and to the otic ganglion. A branch is described by Arnold as proceeding from the otic j ganglion ‘to the tensor tympani muscle. I The external ear is supplied by the facial nerve as regards its I muscular apparatus, and by the fifth pair as regards its sentient sur- i faces. The influence of the facial nerve upon the muscular appai’atus of the organ of hearing, whether tympanic or labyrinthic, is similar to that of the third nerve upon the muscles of the eyeball, or upon the iris and ciliary muscle. And it seems probable that while volition can exercise a certain influence upon the muscular apparatus of hearing, that apparatus may likewise be excited to action through the physical stimulus of sound affecting the auditory nerve, which re-acting upon the portio dura excites its fibres to a degree pro- portionate to the intensity of the sound ; as the stimulus of light affecting the optic nerve re-acts upon the iris. We shall now proceed to inquire into the office of each part of the complex organ of hearing.* * The following points respecting the laws of sound should be home in mind in considering the offices of the various parts of that complex acoustic apparatus, the human ear. 1. Any irregular impulse communicated to the air will produce a noise; a suc- cession of impulses occurring at exactly equal intervals of time, and exactly similar in duration and intensity, constitutes a musical sound. 2. The frequency of repetition necessary for the production of a continued sound from single impulses is, probably, generally not less than sixteen times in a second, but Savart thinks that some ears may distinguish a sound resulting from only ten or eight vibrations in a second. On the other hand, sounds are audible which consist of 24,000 vibrations in a second. 3. Sound may be propagated or conducted by air, gases, liquids and solids, with ' various degrees of rapidity. 4. Sound travels through air at the temperature of 62° Fahr. at the rate of I 1125 feet in a second. 5. Sound is incapable of transmission through a vacuum. 6. The propagation of sound is the more effectively performed as the medium of > transmission is more dense. Rarefied air, gases of low density, and soft solids, are I less perfect conductors of sound than much denser materials of the same kind. , 7. We distinguish in sounds, 1, the pitch; 2, the intensity or loudness; 3, the I quality or timbre. The pitch of the sound depends on the rapidity with which the vibrations succeed