323 CHAP. XXVIII.] ANASTOMOSES OF ARTERIES. from the heart, by the attachment to that organ of each of the two great vessels (the aorta and the pulmonary artery) which form the main trunks of their respective systems. The middle coat of each of these vessels is inserted into or adherent to the concavity of three festoons composed of rounded cords of white fibrous tissue. To the central portion of the convexity of each of these the muscular fibre of the heart adheres closely in the case of the pulmonary artery ; but in that of the aorta, one festoon and the half of another gives attachment to muscular fibre, whilst the other half of this festoon, and a third are attached to a part of the fibrous zone, which forms the base of the inner lip of the mitral valve. Along the line of these festoons the lining membrane of the heart be- coming continuous with that of the arteries forms three semilunar curtains which are strengthened by processes of fibrous tissue con- tinuous with the festoons. These folds constitute the valves of these vessels, the only ones of the arterial system. We shall recur to these by and bye. Arteries convey the blood to the various parts of the body by the subdivision of their trunks and the giving off of branch-vessels at various points. The branches for the most part come olF at an acute angle with the continued trunk, so that the new stream of blood does not experience any great diversion from the direction of its parent stream. In a few instances, however, this arrangement is not observed, as in some of the intercostal and lumbar arteries, which form nearly a right angle with the aorta from which they originate. Anastomoses of Arteries.—The manner in which dilferent arterial trunks communicate with each other indirectly, is one of the most interesting points in the anatomy of the arterial system. This anastomosis of arteries often affords the means of supplying the nutrient fluid to a limb after its principal artery has been obli- terated, small collateral channels enlarging more or less for the reception of a greater supply of blood than they were wont to con- vey. Hence the study of the intercommunicating vessels has had great influence upon the surgical treatment of aneurisms and wounds of arteries. One of the most simple of these anastomoses is found in the union of two arteries, originating from different trunks, to form one —as the vertebral arteries unite to form the basilar ; another kind is when two vessels from the same or different trunks form by their union an arch from the convexity of which others come ofl’, which form similar reunions and arches, giving oft’ smaller branches which