GENERATION. [chap. XXXVl. 526 which possess the power of development, under favourable cireum- stanees, into a form identieal with that from whieh they were produced. In consequence of this property, the bud of a plant has been termed a phjton; and a tree must, therefore, he looked upon as an assemblage of these phytons. We must, however, hear in mind, that all buds have not this power, as, for instance, flower buds do not give rise to the formation of new buds of any sort, but produce seeds. Amongst the lower animals, reproduction by buds is very com- mon, and can be readily examined in the vorticellse and polyps. In the hydra, the first change which is observed consists in the formation of a little elevation which soon becomes globular; next a cavity is formed in this globular mass, and becomes continuous with that of the parent. After a time the channel of communica- tion closes, and the bud begins to assume the form of a polyp, which ultimately drops off; and in this way a new creature is formed. The echinococci multiply by the formation of buds upon the in- ternal surface of the hydatid vesicle. At first they are attached by a sort of stem; but ultimately they become free, and move about in the fluid of the parent cyst by aid of their hooks and suckers. A bud differs from an ovum in the important particular, that it contains within itself the power of development, while the latter is incapable of becoming developed into the form of its parent until it has been subjected to the action of the contents of another cell. The only resemblance between a hud and an ovum is, that in both the organization is imperfect. True Generation.—The processes of multiplication above referred to must be distinguished from the one which we are now about to consider. True generation consists in the union of the contents of two different cells, called respectively the “ sperm cell” and “ germ cell,” and the production of a structure differing from both, from which the new being is ultimately evolved. The simplest form of this process is seen in the lower algae in conjugation. At fii’st, the opposite cells of two filaments are seen to be swollen on the Fi(J. 264. Figures of tlie fresh-water hydra and vorti- cella, shewing the multiplication of new indi- viduals hy the formation of buds.