COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. CHAP. XXIX.] 385 Comparative Anatomy.—In Entozoa, polyps, and medusa, no special respiratory organ exists. In star-fishes, and sea-urchins, among the echinodermata, the sea water gains access to cavities among the viscera, and is renewed continually hy special organs, principally cilia. The holothuria has an internal system of arborescent tubes opening from the cloaca, receiving water, and, according to Tiedemann, serving for respiration; its branches end in vesicles. In annelida there are some- times tufted brauchia, or gills, as in the arenicola, or sand-worm, sometimes sacs opening separately, as in lumbrici and leeches. The Crustacea have branchiae attached either to the feet or abdominal surface. Of the arachnida, some, as the scorpion, have pulmonary sacs, or lungs, with parallel lamellae, situated on the abdomen in from one to four pairs, and each opening by a separate stigma ; others have a system of ramified internal air-tubes, termed trachea, or spiral vessels (from a spiral thread in their wall) ; and some both tracheae and pulmonary sacs. The myriapoda and all the insecta have trachete. These jienetrate the internal organs to their remotest parts, anastomosing freely, and open at several points on the surface. Insects which breathe in water, as well as many aquatic larvm, have branchiffi which first separate air from the water, and then transmit it along the tracheae. The respiration by tracheae is probably a very perfect one, the blood and tissues being aerated throughout the body, at every spot in which they are being deteriorated. Among Mollusca, some have branchia, or gills, as the cephalopods, the conchifera, and some gasteropods. Other gasteropods have a pulmonary sac, or lung, e.g., the common snail. This sac opens and shuts so as to change the air, and on its sur- face the venous blood is distributed ere it reaches the heart. Fishes present the greatest development of gills. There are four branchial arches, bearing vascular plates with lateral offsets. Matteucci estimates the surface of the gills of the common ray to measure 2250 square inches. All the blood is driven by the heart through the gills, to the aorta, and thus comes into close proximity to the water, in contact with the branchial surface. The capillary network has close and regular meshes. Reptiles have a rudimentary form of lung, combined in many instances with gills, during a part or the whole of life, e.g., in the frog the gills exist only in the tadjiole state : in the proteus they remain through life. The pulmonary sacs of reptiles are more or less cellulated on their inner smface, and receive a portion only of the venous blood in each circuit. In Birds and Mammalia respiration is much more active, being performed by means of largo and highly divided lungs, placed within a bony framework, capable of receiving and rapidly renewing the air in large quantities, and giving passage to the whole blood of the body on its way fimn the veins to the arteries. In Birds there is a series of openings from the pulmonary air-tubes, by which the air gains access to passages and spaees among the other organs and tissues, rendering the body specifically lighter, and, perhaps, in some degree, aiding respiration. Further varieties in the structure of the lungs, modifying their respiratory power, will be alluded to when tlie human lungs have been described. Organs of Eespiration in Man.—The lungs, placed in the thoracic cavity, receive air by the nasal passages and trachea, and venous blood from the right side of the heart to transmit it to the left.