253 THE BILE. CHAP , XXV.] there are iiiaiiy of the herbivora in which it is present, as in the ox, the sheep, the goat, &c. In the first giraffe examined in this country by Professor Owen there was no gall-bladder; in the second two were found.* Quantity of Bile secreted.—Various attempts have been made to estimate the quantity of bile secreted by the liver in a given time ; but, in truth, we have no satisfactory knowledge on this point. Blondlot, by the experiment upon a dog detailed above, was able to collect the bile that flowed out at the external orifice, which must have been all that was secreted. The quantity thus obtained from one of his dogs amounted in twenty-four hours, on the average, to twelve drams and a half. Assuming, then, with Haller, that the liver of a man secretes four or five times as much bile as that of a dog, we may conclude that the average quantity poured into the human intestine in twenty-four hours is from six to eight ounces. Haller, himself, however, had formed a much larger estimate than this, namely, seventeen to twenty-four ounces. The Physical and Chemical Properties of Bile.—The bile is a thick, ropy fluid, of a greenish-yellow colour, a bitter taste, and a peculiar nauseous smell, with a specific gravity of 1026 to 10-30. It has an antiseptic power, and not only itself resists putrefac- tion for a considerable period, but prevents substances with which it mixes from putrefying. The excessive fcetor of the fseces in some cases of jaundice from complete obstruction, and, perhaps, also in cholera is probably due to the absence of the antiseptic influence of the bile. The reaction of the bile, according to Gorup-Bezanez, is when first secreted neutral; but subsequently it becomes slightly acid, and ultimately alkaline. The well-known cleansing properties of ox- gall are due to the presence of alkali in it in considerable quantity. According to the analysis of Berzelius, which seems to be the most trustworthy, and with which that recently made by Mulderf accords very closely, bile consists of water holding mucus in suspen- sion, and in solution certain salts, with a peculiar complex substance called by Berzelius Bilin, also fat, and a special colouring matter. The following is Berzelius’s table of the analysis of ox-gall. Water ....... 904’4 Bilin (with fat and colouring matter) . . 80 0 Mucus ....... 03-0 Salts ...... 12’6 1000-0 * Art. “ Liver,” Cyclop. Anat. and Pliys. t Untersucliuugcn itber die Gallc, &c. Frankfort. 1847.