INNERVATION. [chap. XVIII, 84 Of the vestibular nerves.—In consequence of the thickness of the wall of the membranous labyrinth where tlie nerves enter, and the presence there of the calcareous and fibrous matter, it is not easy to ascertain with certainty the precise manner in which the nerves ter- minate. In the utricle and saccule, they appear to spread out from one another as they enter, and then to pass, some to mingle with the calcareous powder, others to radiate for a small extent on the inner surface of the wall of the cavity, where they come into connexion with a layer of dark and closely-set nucleated cells, and presently lose their white substance. We have seen a fibrous film on the inner surface of these parts which we are disposed to consider as formed, like the inner surface of the retina, by the union of the axis-cylin- ders of the nerve-tubes, but confirmatory observations are required. Those that traverse the calcareous clusters have appeared to us, in the most lucid views we have succeeded in obtaining, to terminate by free, pointed extremities, without losing their white sub- stance. In the frog this has been evident enough. The nervous twigs belong- ing to the semicircular canals do not seem to advance be- yond the ampullae, in which they have a remarkable dis- tribution, entering them, as Steifensand has well shown, by a transverse or forked groove View of the nerves going to the membranous laby- . ° rintha. Branch to the ampulla of one of the semi- OU their COUCave Side, aud circular canals. It is seen perforating the wall and , . , , , i • i expanding transversely within. 6. Semicircular canal wllicll I’eaclieS about a third cut across. From Steifensand. tit-. , . round. Within this, the nerve projects so as to form a sort of transverse bulge within the am- pulla. Their precise termination can be best seen in the osseous fishes, and has been described by Wagner to be looplike, as will be apparent from the adjoined figure. We believe we have seen this mode of termination, though certainly never so plainly as the figure given by this excellent author would indicate; and we may add that we have found free extremities to the nerve-tubes, as well as loopings, in the ampullae of the cod. The difficulty in these cases of ascertaining the exact truth arises from the curves formed by the iierve-tuhes in proceeding to their destination, aud which are liable to be mistaken for terminal loopings.