LIVER. [chap. XXXIII. 466 of the several twigs of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and duct, may be said to be determined by the mode of distribution of these vessels. The intralohular hepatic vein occupies the central axis of the lobules, and usually consists of a stem, into which three to five, or even more, subordinate twdgs empty the blood derived from the capillary plexus. The lobule is elongated on this vein, and presents a process for each of the subordinate twigs. In all cases, the terminal branches of the portal vein and the duct arrive at the surface of the lobule at several points; and the surface of the lobule, whether complete or incomplete, is continuous with that of the portal canals. From this surface, in all cases, the capillary plexus tends by the slight elongation of its close meshes and converges tow'ards the intralobular hepatic vein in the axis of the lobule. It probably follows, that in this latter situation the blood, after having been nearly deprived of those constituents from which the bile is formed, circulates more rapidly than at the more external parts of the lobule, whither it has just been brought by the portal veins, richly charged wdth these constituents. Portal Canals.—It has been already observed, that the portal canals contain a branch of the portal vein with a branch of the hepatic artery, and of the bi- liary duct — not unfrequently the vein is accompanied by two branches of the artery and duct. The branches of the artery and duct are connected with those of the portal vein by are- olar tissue, which is abundant in the transverse fissure of the liver, and in the larger portal canals, but in the smaller exists chiefly on that side of the vein where the artery and duct lie; ■while, as the vessels diminish in size, the amount Lonj^tutliufll section of n smell portel vein nnd cenel after Kiernan. a. Portions of the canal from which the UllS aPCOldl XISSUC UCCOIUCS vein has been removed, i. Side of the portal vein in locsi mit-il if pnfivplvr ppocpo contact with the canal, c. The side of the vein which is UULU IL CXUUCiy OLObCS separated from the canal hy the hepatic artery and +1,0 omnll Lv-inplips duct with areolar tissue (Glis.son's capsule), d. In- WHCie tllC Small DianCllCS ternal surface of the I ortal vein, throufth which is seen cnrinlv flip Inlnilpst nvp the outline ofthe lobules and the openings of the inter- «Hlon supply bllC lUUUlCS UlO 1 bular veins. /. Vaginal veins of Kiernan. p. Hepatic o-iyen off Tllis investment of artery, h. Hepatic duct. fc> areolar tissue, described under