CHAP. XXVII.] THE COLOURLESS CORPUSCLES. 301 structure may truly be assigned to it is amply proved by the change of form, which it undergoes by the endosmosis of pure water, whicli will cause it to burst and evacuate its contents, consisting of nothing more than some minute granules, none of which can be compared to a nucleus. So far as microscopic analysis would enable us to decide this question, we should be disposed to declare in favour of Mr. Jones’s view; but it seems greatly opposed by two facts ; first, that in the corpuscle of the lower vertebrata, the colouring matter is contained between the nucleus and the cell-wall, whereas in the mammalian corpuscle it would be contained in the nucleus; and, secondly, that this peculiarity of structure is limited to one class of vertebrate animals. It receives support, however, from observing the several steps of the development, for the cor- puscle exhibits a stage in which a nucleus is visible (the stage of coloured nucleated cell), (Fig. 179, d), and this nucleus in the very large corpuscle of the elephant, and likewise in the very small cor- puscle of the goat, exhibits a strict correspondence in size with the perfectly formed blood-corpuscle. But here, again, we notice the difficulty above referred to, that in this stage of nucleated cell, the colour is found between the cell and the nucleus. It seems to us that further research is required, in order to determine the exact homology of the mammalian red corpuscle. The Colourless Corpuscles.—These particles., are found in all kinds of blood. They are spherical bodies, destitute of colour; their structure is that of nucleated cells, the cell-membrane being extremely delicate; both the cell mem- brane and the nucleus and nucleolus are rendered distinct by the action of dilute acetic acid, which dissolves some granules Pig- 179. I which are contained in the cell. These granules are external to the nucleus. When they are numerous and large the nucleus is concealed by them. Corpuscles of this kind, denominated granule cells by Mr. W. Jones (Fig. 179, a, 5), are viewed by him as constituting an earlier stage than those in which the nucleus and nucleolus are distinct, which he calls nu- cleated cells (Fig. 179, c, f7). In size the colourless corpuscles slightly surpass the malia, but not in the other vertebrata. same as the nucleated particles found in I Phases of the human blood-cor- puscle (after Wharton Jones), a and b. Granule cells in the coarsely and finely granular state, c and d. Nucleated cells, c. without colour, d. with colour, e. Free ccllieform nucleus or perfect red corpuscle. red corpuscles in mam- They are essentially the lymph and in chyle. In