CHAP. XX. INNERVATION. 130 as special nerves of respiration, whilst those of the cervical plexus were nerves of volition. There are indeed no good grounds for coining to any other conclusion than that which Dr. John Reid arrives at; namely, that the external branch of the spinal accessory exactly resembles in its functions, the branches of the cervical plexus with which it so freely anastomoses. It may be fairly asked, however, why do the trapezii and sterno- mastoid muscles receive their nerves from a double som’ce ? The most reasonable reply to this is, that while the branches of the cer- vical plexus serve to connect these. muscles with the centres of volition and sensation in the ordinary way, the external branch of the spinal accessory connects it in a more direct manner with the centre of respiration. Nevertheless, this branch, although especially implanted in that centre, is capable of obeying voluntary impulses, so long as the medulla oblongata maintains its normal relation to the centre of volition. Thus, on the whole, we assign motor power to the external branch of the spinal accessory, but we see no good reason to subscribe to the opinion that its internal branch must be regarded as the motor root of the vagus. Indeed, we are much more disposed, for anatomical reasons, to regard the office of this branch as totally different. None of the views hitherto put forward respecting this nerve explain the object of its peculiar and most extensive connexion with the nervous centre; a connexion which in the larger quadrupeds is still more extensive than in man. Our view is as follows : the internal branch of the spinal accessory consists of afferent fibres, which, connected with the sensitive surface of the respiratory organs, pass towards the centre in the trunk of the vagus, but separate from that nerve to be implanted in a large extent of the respiratory centre. This mode of implantation of the spinal accessory nerve serves to bring the sentient surface of the lungs and air passages into immediate relations with the roots of all those nerves which animate the great muscles of respiration, the phrenic, the external thoracic, the cervical plexus, and the motor fibres of the spinal accessory and vagus nerves.* * Respecting the subjects discussed in this chapter, the systematic works on descriptive Anatomy and Physiology may be consulted ; also Sir C. Bell’s, and Mayo’s works, and Dr. Reid’s Essays in the Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal; Dr. Marshall Hall’s writings; the Article “Par Vagum,” in the Cyclopaedia of Ana- tomy and Physiology.