CHAP. XXVIII.] THE CAPILLARY FORCE. 371 capillary system, whilst its existence in greater power at one point than at another, would cause a greater afflux of blood in the former than in the latter direction. The best illustration of the exercise of this force, which, for the sake of brevity, may be designated the capillary force,* is found in the circulation of the sap in plants. It is exercised in two situations—at the roots and in the leaves,— constituting in the one a vis a tergo, and in the other a vis a froute. At the roots, a rapid imbibition of fluid takes place with such energy, that it pushes before it the fluid above ; thus if the stem of a vine, in which the sap is rising, he cut across, a bladder tied over it, will, after a short time, be burst by the fluid accumulated beneath it; or if a bent tube, containing a column of mercury, be afflxed to it, the mercury will be raised to the height of forty inches or more. And that a force of attraction is exercised at the leaves, may be shown by placing the lower end of the upper division of the cut vine in water, when an active absorption and circulation of water will take place as long as the vital changes in the leaves go on ; but if the vine be taken into a dark room, so as to check these vital changes, the absorption and circulation will likewise cease. So also the elaborated sap or latex, which, from its containing the elements for the nutrition and for the various secretions of the plant, may be likened to the arterial blood of animals, circu- lates through a complex system of anastomosing vessels (like the capillaries of animals), in the under surface of the leaves and in the bark, and will ascend towards the stem, even against gravity, in a dependent branch. The circulation of these fluids takes place with the greatest activity in growing parts, in which nutrient and chemical changes are going on most actively. Professor Draper, of New York,f has given a deflnite expression to the nature of the forces which operate in the production of the circulation of the sap in plants, and in that of the blood in animals. The laws of endosmose and exosmose resolve themselves into the following dogma:—“ That if two liquids communicate with one another in a capillary tube, or in a porous or parenchy- matous structure, and have for that tube or structure diflerent chemical affinities, movement will ensue; that liquid, which has * The name Capillary foree, wliieh was given by Dr. Carpenter, must be taken as merely denoting tliat the foree is exerted at the Capillaries, whether it be exer- eised by their walls or by a mutual action between the blood within and the tissues outside them. t On the Forces which produce the Organization of Plants. 1845.