ANIMAL HEAT. [chap. XXX. 428 jecture only. It may be regarded as most probable that tbe chemical changes wliicli issue in tbe formation of carbonic acid and water, and tlie disengagement of heat, are effected in the tissues themselves, or in the systemic capillaries, in the immediate vicinity of the tissues. Influence of the Nervous System.—Much difference of opinion has existed as to the share taken by the nervous system in the pro- duction and maintenance of animal temperature, some distinguished men having argued that this system is in some way the source of heat, while others have limited its operation to the exercise of a controlling and regulating influence OA'^er this important function. The latter conclusion is that to which a just estimate of the numerous facts advanced on both sides would appear to lead. The experiments of Dulong, repeated and modifled by Despretz, seemed, indeed, for some time to indicate that a portion of the heat developed in the body could not be referred to the consump- tion of the oxygen inhaled, and that, therefore, some other source for it must be sought. They compared the heat given to a calori- meter by an animal placed within it, with that produced by the combustion out of the body of as much carbon and hydrogen as the animal gave off in the same time, in the form of carbonic acid and water, and found that more heat was given off by the animal than the chemical products of its respiration would account for, to the extent of from one-fifth to one-tenth. It has since been shown, however, that, on the one hand, allowance was not made for an actual cooling down of the animal below its normal tem- perature by exposure to the refrigerating influence of the calori- meter, so that the heat indicated had not all been produced within the period of the experiment; and, on the other, that the heat generated by the corresponding chemical actions out of the body had been under-estimated. Dulong himself furnished a more correct estimate of the heat developed by the combustion of hydrogen; and his results have been confirmed by Fabre and Silberman. Hence, while it would be premature to attach too much value to such experiments, considering our ignorance of the exact series of chemical changes indicated by the resultant carbonic acid and water, they certainly are not, as they once seemed to be, opposed to the ehemical theory of animal heat. It may be regarded as certain, that the nervous system exerts a considerable influence upon the development of heat in the body. The experiments of Sir Benjamin Brodie, and subsequently those of Le GaUois and Chossat, have established the fact that lesions