INNERVATION. [chap. XVII. 38 outside, and with the tuber cinereum on the inside. Whether any of its fibres spring from the tuber cinereum is matter of great uncer- tainty. Further back the optic tract adheres by its outer margin to the crus cerebri, and is concealed by the middle lobe of the brain. In this course it expands considerably, and at the posterior edge of the crus cerebri it forms intimate connexions with certain gangliform masses of the brain. First, we observe its connexion with the ex- ternal geniculate body, a small prominent tubercle of darker colour than the surrounding parts, and situate at the posterior margin of the crus ; it seems to involve the outermost fibres of the tract, as a ganglion, and from it a band of fibres is continued back to the pos- terior of the quadrigeminal bodies. Beneath the posterior extrem- ity of the optic thalamus the innermost fibres of the tract form a connexion with another similar body, the internal geniculate body, from which fibres are continued backwards to the anterior of the corpora quadrigemina. The tracts, thus, appear to divide, each into two bands: of which the outer one, after passing through the ex- ternal geniculate body, reaches the testes; and the inner one, simi- larly related to the internal geniculate body, reaches the nates. The optic tracts are connected with the optic thalami chiefly through the geniculate bodies. Each tract adheres to the outer side of its corresponding thalamus for some distance, but whether any fibres sink into it is not determined. In the horse, dog, sheep, and monkey, this arrangement is very conspicuous, as the greater portion of the fibres of the tract expands over the internal genicu- late body, which is incorporated with the posterior extremity of the thalamus. The diameter of the tubules of the optic tracts we have found to vary from nk! to of an inch. The chiasma results from the junction of the optic tracts in front of, and inferior to, the tuber cinereum. The fibres which form the inner margin of each tract, are continued across from one side of the brain to the other. Course of fibres in the chiaama, as exhibited by tearing off prmnpYinn with the superficial bundles from a specimen hardened in spirit, lOim nO COIlIieXlOU WllU a. Anterior fibres, commissural between the two retinse. novrroa nnrl PYlst p. Posterior fibres, commissural between the thalami. a',p'. OpUC neives, dllU exibt Diagram of the preceding. wllCrC tllOSC lierVCS do not exist, as in the mole. These fibres may be regarded as commissural between the thalami of opposite sides. The remaining fibres of the tracts go to form the optic nerves; the central ones pass into the Fig. 126.