CHAP. XVII.] THE CHOROIDAL EPITHELIUM. 23 The pii>-mentary matter Avithin these cells is of a sepia colour, and occurs in the form ot oblong' or oval grains, less than toAtoi of an inch long (fig. 114,5). These grains exhibit molecular motion when removed from the cells, and sometimes even Avithin the cells (vol. i. p. 60), They are insoluble in hot or cold water, in the dilute mineral acids, and in strong acetic acid, in oil, alcohol, and ether; but are dissolved, after long digestion, by diluted liquor potassse. The ash consists of common salt, lime, phosphate of lime, and oxide of iron {Gmelin and Berzelius). In albinos the colouring matter is deficient, not only in the eyes, but in other organs in which it usually exists. The eyes have con- sequently a pink appearance, derived chiefly from the blood in the choroid and iris. Of the Choroidal Epithelium.—On the inner surface of the choroid, Avithin the capillary network, and adhering slightly to it, is an epithelium, consisting of a single layer of nucleated particles, of a pentagonal or hexagonal shape, filled with pigment. This was first particularly described by Mr. Wharton Jones, who termed it the memlrane of the UacJc 'pigment. In using this name, it must be remembered that the colouring matter is not peculiar to this epithe- lium ; and that this epithelium exists without pigment in front of the tapetum lucidum of animals; and also that it is present, without pigment, in albinos, as Avas first pointed out by Mr. Jones. Hence the presence of pigment in its cells is a secondary character. The nuclei of the cells project on the inner surface of the membrane. They are concealed by the pigment if it is very abundant, but in general they are visible. Both conditions are seen in fig. 114, a. In many quadrupeds and fishes the inner surface of the choroid, in its posterior part, has a brilliant lustre, owing to the presence of a thick layer of Avavy fibrous tissue, peculiarly arranged, outside the choroidal epithelium (here colourless). This tapetum lucidu7n must act as a concave reflector, causing the rays of light to traverse the retina a second time, and thus, probably, increasing the visual power, particu- larly when the quantity of light admitted into the eye is small. In the osseous fishes there is a singular vascular organ of a horse-shoe shape ap- pended to the outer surface of the choroid, and covered by a silvery membrane. Its structure is imperfectly made out, and its office is quite unknown. It is called the choroid gland. In birds there is a remarkable plicated, comb-like process of the choroid, pro- jected into the vitreous humor, and tenned the pecten. It is a vascular membrane, and covered with pigment; its base commencing at the entrance of the optic nerve, and its apex reaching more or less nearly to the crystalline lens. The retina does not extend over it. No satisfactory use has yet been assigned to it. Its size and shape are subject to considerable variety.