CHAP. XLII.] 597 OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. system arc formed ; and immediately beneath it, is the great artery of the body, with the viscera. At the anterior and poste- rior extremities of the embryo, the chorda dorsalis tapers to a point. In its earliest condition, it is composed of a perfectly clear gelatinous material, in the anterior extremity of which cells soon make their appearance, and increase in number until the whole becomes cellular. It is sturounded by a delicately fibrous sheath; external to which the blastema, which gives rise to the deve- lopment of ossifying cartilage, is deposited. In this situation, after a time, cartilaginous rings make their appearance, and merge by insensible gradations into the fibrous sheath. The fibrous structure gradually disappears, and in its place cartilage is formed, while at the same time the substance of the chorda is removed, to give place to the developing cartilage. The cells of the cord, how- ever, are not transformed into cartilage cells. Eventually only a portion of the cellular substance remains between the bodies of the vertebrae. At a much later period, cartilaginous arches are formed in the inner part of the dorsal laminae, which become converted into the vertebral arches. The outer portion of the laminae dorsales becomes converted into muscular tissues and integuments. The cranium is originally formed from an extension forwards of the chorda dorsalis, and its development occui’s at a much earlier period than the bones of the face. In the lamprey and the stur- geon, the connection between the chorda and the cerebral cartilage is permanent. In mammalia, those portions analogous to the bodies of vertebrae appear in the basis cranii; and prolonged from these, above, are portions corresponding to the neural arch of the typical vertebra; and below, parts belonging to the hrnnal arch. The body of the epencephalic or occipital vertebra is represented by a distinct point of ossification, for the basilar process of the occipital bone; its neural arch by the expanded portion of the bone itself; its haemal arch by the scapulae, bones of arm, fore-arm, and hand, and the coracoid processes of the scapula (coracoid bones of oviparous vertebrata). The body of the mesencephalic or parietal vertebra is seen in the basi-sphenoid, or body of the sphenoid bone; its neural arch is formed by the mastoid portions of the temporal bones, the great wings of the sphenoid and the parietal bones; its haemal arch by the styloid process of the temporal, and by the body and greater and lesser cornua of the hyoid bones. The prosencephalic or frontal vertebra has its body represented by the anterior or spheno-orbital portion of the sphenoid; its neural arch