CHAP. XXII.] 157 DIET. If now we compare witli these a dietary which has been found suf- I ficient for the support of health in a state of more or less confinc- ^ ment, u'ith a moderate amount of daily labour, we may faiily infer ithat the proper allowance for persons not engaged in actual manual labour lies between these extremes. In the union workhouses of England, able-bodied men obtain about 25 ounces of solid food ]! daily, of which the quantity of meat does not exceed 5 or 6 ounces. J In prisons it has been found necessary to give a certain amount of ! animal food to prisoners who are subject to hard labour. Each of such prisoners, if confined for a term exceeding three mouths and kept at hard labour, has a daily allowance of about 36 ounces of food, of which meat constitutes only a very small portion, namely, about 16 ounces in the week, four ounces on each of four days in the week. The prisoner has obviously the advantage of the poor man, whose only crime is poverty. But there is doubtless sufficient ] justification for this, in the fact that the labour of the prison, and I the mental depression which long-continued restraint and confine- ment induce, render a gi’eater amount of nutriment necessary than the indigent would require who seek in the workhouse a shelter from absolute want. It is plain, then, that a daily amount of food, varying in quan- tity between 85 and 25 ounces, is sufficient to maintain health ; but of this a fourth or a fifth ought to be animal food, especially when bodily exertion is being used. An amount greater than this is prejudicial, as affording material for the formation of new com- pounds, which serve only as materies morli that may contaminate various tissues or organs, and impair their physical and vital properties. A lesser quantity, on the other hand, makes a poor blood, weakens the cohesive power of its elements as well as the attractive force of the tissues; and thus, in this latter case, materies morhi may be generated from the decomposition or the imperfect composition of the elements of the blood, and the tissues will suffer partly from not appropriating a sufficient quantity of the nutritious elements contained in the blood, and partly from the inferior quality of those elements themselves, w'hich are probably also contaminated by some new compound. In proportion as our knowledge of pathology or the intimate nature of disease extends, we become better able to treat disease with advantage on physiological principles ; and it must be evident to all, who fairly consider the subject, that nothing is more import- tant than to determine the proper diet suitable to particular mala- dies. We must not content ourselves merely with starving or feed-