FUNCTION OF TITE LIVER. 251 CHAP. XXV.] We may therefore conclude that tlie pancreas secretes a fluid of • which the office is—first and specially to digest fatty and oily ele- ’ ments ; and, secondly, to convert starch into sugar, and thus to promote the digestion and absorption of amylaceous food. The function of the Liver.—The liver is the largest gland in the body. It is remarkable not only for its complex structure, which will be described in the chapter on Secretion, but also for its peculiar double circulation. It is supplied with blood from two sources, namely, from the hepatic artery., which carries red blood to it, and is distributed mainly to the coats of the ducts—and from the vena portee, a vein in structure, but an artery in its mode of branching, which conveys a large quantity of dark blood, derived from the veins of the stomach, the intestines, the pancreas, and the spleen, and which ramifies throughout every part of the liver, passing into a dense capillary plexus, whence it is taken up by the hepatic veins, and carried to the right side of the heart. By this arrangement all matters absorbed into the blood from the gastro-intestinal surface must pass through the liver, a point of anatomy which indicates that the material added to the blood by absorption from the stomach and intestines, in some way contributes to support the function of this gland. We may justly assume that the bile is secreted from the blood of the vena portse, because of the great size of that vessel and the vast extent of the capillary plexus, which it supplies, more especially as the small size of the he]}atic artery compared with the great bulk of the gland, and the trifling degree to which it can contribute to the formation of the capillary plexus of the organ, clearly disqualify it for contributing to the secreting process. The bile, as a separated product, first shows itself in the minute canals or ducts which originate in the substance of the liver, and which, by frequent successive junctions, form two large ducts, each somewhat larger than a crow-quill, which emerge at the transverse fissure of the liver, the one from its right, the other from its left lobe. These two ducts pass for a short distance downwards and inwards, enveloped by GlissoiTs eapsule, along with the trunks of the hepatic artery and portal vein, and with the hepatic plexus of nerves and several large lymphatics, with some lymphatic glands. About an inch below their emergence they unite at an acute angle, and form a single duct a little larger than either; this is the hepatic duct, which soon unites with a short duct proceeding from the gall- bladder, the cystic duct. The union of these two ducts forms the