281 CHAP. XXVI.] CONTENTS OF THE ABSORBENTS. find in it red blood-corpuscles. These, it is probable, have been accidentally introduced into the lymphatic vessel during the dis- section employed to lay it open. Chyle.—The liquor chyli contains more albumen, and more fat than the liquor lymphae. It has been noticed that the lacteals near the intestine contain little or no fibrine ; their contents do not acquire the power of spontaneously coagulating till we approach the main trunks. Even in the receptaculum chyli and the thoracic duct, where the chyle is commingled with the lymph from distant parts, the clot formed is still much softer than that of blood. The corpuscles of the chyle are the same as those of lymph. In addition, howevei*, we have in most instances the molecular base. This varies with the amount of fatty matter in the food. It gives the chyle that milky colour which was shewn by Tiedemann and Gmelin to have a close correspondence with the fat of the food. It has been noticed to be generally absent or very deficient in birds; it is less abundant in herbivorous animals than in carni- vorous. If a dog be fed on food, from which fat is carefully excluded, the chyle is not milky, but whey-like or transparent. Sir Benjamin Brodie, in 1816, fed a cat on jelly, and a dog on isinglass jelly: the animals were killed after two hours. The stomachs were found nearly empty, the duodena filled with a mix- ture apparently of chyle and jelly; the lacteals and thoracic ducts contained transparent chyle, which coagulated spontaneously. He likewise fed a dog on lard, after a fast of thirty-six hours, and in three hours killed the animal. Some lard was found in the stomach, some fluid of albuminous character in the duodenum, the same tinged with bile in the ileum, and in the thoracic duct perfect milky chyle.* The molecular base is present in the lacteals from the very com- mencement, even from the villi of the intestines. It seems to con- sist of almost infinitely small particles {fig. 172 a) of oleaginous or fatty matter, thrown into this form by contact with the pancreatic secretion, as so well proved by Bernard. The particles do not look like oil under the microscope—their outline is not definite or sharp, and from this circumstance, as well as from their extreme minuteness, it is not easy to assign them an exact size. In fact, they vary somewhat. Mr. Gulliver makes their diameter 3000oth of an inch. Thus the white colour of the chyle does not depend on precisely the same cause as that of the milk, for the * “Selections from Notes of Physiological Experiments,” by Sir B. C. Brodie Bart., MS. pp. 39, 40, 41. von. II. ,,