CHAP. XIX.] FOUimi PAIR OF NERVES. 103 iris. The same effect is proclucecl by mechanical irritation of the trunk of the nerve. Section of the trunk of the third nerve in rabbits or dogs, gives rise to external strabismus, with paralysis of the upper eyelid (ptosis) and dilatation and immobility of the pupil. The eyeball is given up to the influence of the external rectus and of the superior oblique muscles, the former of which being the more powerful deter- mines its permanent position. The paralysis of the iris, after section of this nerve, is so com- plete that the most powerful light directed into the eye, is incapable of exciting the least contraction of the pupil. And Mayo’s experi- ments demonstrate that the fifth nerve, which is the only other, except, perhaps, the sympathetic, connected with the iris, does not exert any motor Influence upon that membrane. AVhen the optic nerve is irritated, the third remaining intact and retaining its connexion with the brain, the pupil contracts. This action does not take place if the third nerve have been previously cut. The motor action of the third nerve may, therefore, be ex- cited through the optic nerve. There can be no doubt, indeed, that this is the ordinary method by which contraction of the pupil is pro- duced during life; the stimulus of light falling upon the retina ex- cites the optic nerve and, through it, that portion of the brain in which the third nerve is implanted. The effects produced by pathological changes affecting the third ner.ve, or that part of the brain with which it is connected, are in exact accordance with the results derived fi’om experiment. Paralysis of the levator palpebrje superioris muscle, permanent squinting of the eyeball in the outward direction, and a dilated motionless pupil are the unerring signs of a paralytic lesion affect- ing the third nerve either at its central extremity or in some part of its course. The third nerve may, therefore, be stated to be the nerve of motion to the elevator muscle of the upper lid, and a principal nerve of motion to the eyeball, and to the muscular apparatus Avithin the eye. It is a nerve of great importance to vision, not only from its influence over the eyeball itself, but also from its connexion with the muscular structures in the interior, on which the power of adjust- ment probably depends. Of the Fourth Pair of Nerves.—These, which were called by Willis “ nervi patheticif are the smallest of the encephalic nerves. Ihey arc also remarkable for the very long course which they take from their origin to their point of exit from the cranium.