THE CIRCULATION OP THE BLOOD, [chap, xxviii. 320 Fig. 191. developed in arteries of the middle and smaller size, and may be most easily separated from the fibrous tissue in arteries which have undergone slight decomposition. They are then seen to consist of long fusiform fibres of much delicacy, with a minute nucleus in most of them. In the mass they have the appear- ance represented in fig. 191. The external layers of the circular fibrous coat become gradually more and more like the ordinary yellow elastic tissue, the penniform and the muscular fibres cease, and the true yellow elastic branching fibre becomes continuous with that which is found in sparing quan- tity in the external coat. Epithelial Layer.—The interior of the arteries is covered by a single layer of delicate oval epi- thelial particles, which separate very soon after death, and must, therefore, be sought for in quite recent subjects. They may be best seen by scraping the inner surface of the artery. The long axis of each of these particles is parallel to that of the vessel. They are pointed, or, as it were, drawn out at their extremities; and, according to Henle, they are sometimes elongated into fusi- form fibres. They are remarkable for the large size and the distinctness of their nuclei which are often visible when the cell wall cannot be detected. Unstriped muscular The particles seeui to rest immediately upon the of The horae.*^**Magui! layer of the longitudinal fibrous tunic, fied 300 diameters, -vvhich bears the relation of a basement mem- brane to them ; in this, when detached, minute apertures appear constituting the fenestrated membrane of Henle. It is possible, as suggested by Henle, that this membrane arises from the transformation of the epithelium, v/hich is ever drawing the ma- terials of its formation and nutrition from the blood contained in the artery. Thus it is not improbable that the innermost layers of the arterial wall, at least, are nourished from the blood flowing through the artery, and not from the blood of the vasa vasorum, which do not seem to penetrate to them. And this view is sup- ported by observing that these innermost layers of the artery, i.e. the longitudinal fibrous tunic, are the seat of the atheromatous deposits which are so common in peculiar diatheses, or at an advanced period of life; these deposits being doubtless derived from the blood which traverses the artery. From the preceding description it would appear that the fol-