OFFICE OF THE IRIS. CHAP. XVII.] 49 distant, they exhibit a characteristic winking connivo). Myopia occurs in adolescence, and is accompanied with a too great refracting power of the media so that the image is formed anterior to the retina. In order, therefore, to throw back the image on the retina, the object is brought very close to the eye ; or the convergence of the rays of light may be diminished by the use of a concave lens. It seems probable that the state of myopia may be acquired by I the habit of looking intently at small and near objects, and that the ; common practice of i*emedying the inconvenience by the use of con- : cave glasses tends to increase the defect. Frequent exercise of the ! eyes on remote objects has, no doubt, the effect of making them far- sighted. It is a common error to say that myopia disappeai's natu- • rally in advanced life. Presbyopia.—Others again imperfectly distinguish near objects, ' whilst they see distant ones very plainly, and the distance at which they can see distinctly is sometimes very great. Persons thus I affected cannot read small print with the eyes unassisted, and they prefer holding the book at a distance. This condition of vision is connected with a too flat cornea, a deficient aqueous humor, or a ! flattening of the lens; and it is in a great degi-ee accounted for by the diminution in the refracting power thence resulting, so that the focus is behind the retina. It belongs to the advanced pe- riods of life. It may be corrected by convex glasses, which in- ‘ crease the convergence of the rays of light. It is manifest that neither of these defects is dependent on the muscular apparatus of adjustment, but rather on the curves of the refracting media, which throw the organ in one direction or the I other beyond the range of the adjusting power with which it is pro- vided. When the refracting media are optically corrected, as by the use of glasses, the adjusting faculty can be exercised. In the eye, considered as an optical instrument, there are other powers besides those already named, which serve to make it more perfect, and to place it in favourable contrast with the most success- ful creations of human ingenuity. One important office of the iris is to prevent the passage of rays ’ through the circumferential part of the lens, and thus to obviate j that indistinctness of vision which would arise from spherical ahetra- I tion., or that unequal refraction which results from the difference in j the angle of incidence of the several rays on a curved surface. In j this respect it resembles the diaphragms used in optical instruments. I By its position, close to the surface of the principal lens,—and VOL, IT. pj t