473 XXXIII.] NElvVES AND EYMPDAnCS- Fig, 225. ings of tlie small branches of the hepatic vein (intralobular vein) are seen in the centre of eaeh lobule, while in Fig. 220, whieh represents a portal vein laid open, the orifiees of the smallest branehes are seen in the spaees between two lobules (interlobular veins). The capillaries in the een- tral part of the lobule open into the small twig of the hepatic vein upon all sides. These points are well seen in the pig’s liver, where the lo- bules are distinct, but in the human and other livers, the arrangement varies slightly in consequenee of the lobules . . . 1 .-i Longitudinal section of an hepatic vein, a, Portiiin communicating Wltn eacnotner Oftliecanal fromwliich the vein has been removed. .1 . , 11. .1 6 Orifices of ultimate twigs of the vein (intralobular) in tne intervals lietween tlie situated m the centre of the lobules, atter Kiernan. . ,111 /T7V m Compare the arrangement of the small veins in tlii.s interlobular nssures (rig. 217). flgurewitlithebranchesoftheporlal veininfig. 220. Nei'ves and I/i/mphatics.—The nerves of the liver are derived ehiefly from the sympathetie, but a few branches of the vagus are also distributed to the organ. They consist of tubular and gelati- nous nerve fibres, and are distributed priiieipally upon the walls of the artery over whieh they form a network. Branehes may be traced into Glisson’s eapsule, and to the coats of the gall bladder and larger ducts, as well as to the eoats of the larger branches of the hepatie vein. The lymphaties are found in considerable abundance in the liver; they are distributed to the gall bladder, and form a network upon the siirfaee of the organ underneath the peritoneum. An abundant network of lymphaties exists in the largest portal canals, and when the ducts are injeeted, it not iinfrequently happens that a small braneh bursts, and the injection escapes into the lymphaties. In this way, some lymphatic glands near the liver are often in- jected, and the injeetion sometimes even reaehes the thoraeic duet, as occurred to Mr. Kiernan, and also to Dr. Beale. Of the Liver Cells.—From what has been already stated, with regard to the arrangement of the solid eapillary venous plexus of the lobules, it will be inferred that the cells oeeupy the meshes of this VOL. II. II