PROSTRATE GLAND. CUAP. XXXVll.] 541 but at the same time, there ean be no doubt tliat they furnish a proper seeretion of their own for its dilution, and for the preserva- tion of its integrity. Prostate Gland.—The prostate may be described as consisting essentially of two distinct structures; first, of a glandular portion, composed of conical or roundish vesicles lined with cylindrical epithelium and containing brown granules; and, secondly, of several layers of fibrous tissue, with which many fibres of un- striped muscle are every where incorporated; indeed, the proportion of the muscular and fibrous elements to the glandular structure, is so great, that Kolliker calculates that the latter does not constitute more than one-third part of the whole mass of the gland. The muscular fibres covering the prostate, were originally described by Mr. Hancock. The secreting follicles open into ducts, which are lined Avith cylindrical epithelium, presenting similar characters to that found in the prostatic portion of the urethra. The ducts, which are very numerous, open into the urethra, upon each side of the caput gallinaginis. Little is known with reference to the nature of the secretion of the prostate, or of the function which it performs. The secretion is stated to be very similar in character to that of the vesiculse seminales. Small concretions, or prostatic calculi, are very frequently met with in the follicles of the gland, or are voided during life. They usually consist of phosphate of lime, with animal matter, and a trace of carbonate of lime; and are often remarkable for their per- fectly spherical form and smooth glistening surface. They com- mence by the deposition of calcareous matter in the walls of large oval cells, which are, probably, altered epithelial cells of the gland itself. Dr. Handheld Jones has carefully investigated the formation of prostatic concretions.* Compel's Glands.—These small glands are two in number, and are situated anterior to the prostate, between the layers of the triangular ligament. Their somewhat long excretory duets open into the bulbous portion of the urethra. They are composed of vesicles, lined with tesselated epithelium, whieli pour their secretion into ducts lined with columnar epithelial cells. As in the case of the prostate, the secreting portion of these little glands is imbedded in a hbrous stroma, which contains very numerous unstripcd muscular * Medical Gazette, Aug. 20th, 1847.