[chap. XXV. DIGESTION. 224 Of the Mucous Membrane of the Intestinal Canal.—The intestinal mucous membrane so far resembles that of the stomach, that it is of the compound variety (see ante., p. 162); and its thickness is caused by the involution of multitudes of tubes, which terminate in blind closed extremities, and rest vertically upon the submucous tissue. Most of the tubes remain undivided from their open to their closed extremities, some are bifurcated towards the blind extremity. Each tube has a separate orifice on the free surface of the mucous membrane, except in the upper part of the duodenum and in the coecum, where they open by sets of three or more on the floors of shallow cells, as in the stomach. These tubes are com- monly called Lieberkuhn’s follicles; but they were first described by Brunn, or Brunner, who has given a good delineation of them, and their real nature was not known to Lieberkiihn, who regarded them as muscles. In examining thin vertical sections of the mucous membrane from any part of the in- testine, we see these tubes closely set parallel to each other; they are straight, and, excepting that here and there one is bifurcated, they exhibit no irregularity or bulging of their walls, and are pretty uniform in diame- ter throughout their length (fig. 157). All the elements of the mucous membrane contribute to their forma- tion ; the basement mem- brane, the epithelium, and the submucous tissue, which is sparingly interposed be- tween them. The epithelium is colum- nar or subcolumnar; the cells are disposed in a single layer, with one end adherent to the basement membrane. The cast off particles often fill each tube as mucus, which escapes at the orifice on the free surface of the mucous membrane. These tubes are shorter in the large than in the small intestine ; and as the thickness of the mucous membrane is dependent on their length, we find it less thick in the former Fig. 157. Section of the mucous membrane of the small intestine in the dog, showing Lieberkuhn’s follicles and villi. a Villi. A Lieberkuhn’s follicles, c Other coats of the intestine.