135 THE OTIC GANGLION. CHAP. XXI.] the hard palate. Thirdly, the vidian nerve, which coming off from the posterior part of the ganglion, passes through the vidian canal, and divides into two branches, the superior, or the great superficial petrosal nerve, which enters the cranium, and under cover of the dura mater passes through the hiatus Fallopii, to unite itself with the geniculate swelling of the portio dura;* and the inferior, or carotid branch, which enters the plexus aromid the carotid artery, and thus forms the bond of union between the spheno- palatine and the superior cervical ganglion; this latter branch is much the larger. Arnold states that this ganglion is con- nected with the optic nerve, and also with the ophthalmic gan- glion. The otic ganglion. This ganglion, discovered and described by Arnold, lies at the inner and inferior part of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, just at its exit from the foramen ovale. It is connected with this nerve by two filaments, which Arnold considers to be derived from the fibres of the lesser portion of the fifth nerve. Besides branches to the internal pterygoid, and the tensor palati muscles, it sends a filament into the cranium which passes through the hiatus Fallopii into the cavity of the tympanum, aud there anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the glossopha- ryngeal. This is the lesser superficial petrosal nerve, which Arnold regards as an emanation from the glossopharyngeal, and as a root for the ganglion, analogous to the long root of the ophthalmic gan- glion. The precise connexion of this ganglion with the sympathetic has not been clearly made out. It contains numerous gelatinous as well as tubular fibres, and its vesicles are large and distinct. The submaxillary ganglion. This ganglion is occasionally replaced by a plexus of nerves. One or two fibres from the gustatory nerve constitute its roots, and its principal ramifications are distributed to the submaxillary gland. It is connected with the superior cer- vical ganglion through the cavernous plexus. 2. Of the Cervical portion of the sympathetic. This consists of three ganglia on each side, the middle of which is by no means constant. The superior is the largest, aud extends from within an inch of the inferior orifice of the carotid canal, to the third cervical vertebra, and sometimes as low as the fourth or fifth. It is connected by large branches with the first, second, aud third cervical nerves ; from its upper extremity there passes upwards into the carotid canal a branch which divides into two that accompany the carotid artery, dividing * It is probably from this source that tliis swelling receives the many gelatinous fibres already described.