432 VOICE. [chap. XXXI. the voice. If a current of air be mafic to play on the vocal chords by a bellows fixed to the tracheal end of the larynx, or by blowing air through it, distinct vocal sounds are excited which can be varied by altering the tension of the vocal chords. There is no instance of true voice among the lower orders of creation except in those animals that have a larynx connected with the respiratory apparatus as in man. In other words, all animals that have no larynx are voiceless. The hum of insects is a phenomenon essentially different from voice, and is caused by the rapid vibration of an apparatus connected with their wings. All the other invertebrated classes are incapable of producing sounds. Fishes, likewise, are voiceless. The Batrachian reptiles possess a larynx and can ^‘0- 2'0. produce vocal sounds. The hiss- ing of serpents is, likewise, la- ryngeal. But the Chelonian rep- tiles have no voice. In birds there are two organs placed, the one in front of the other, to which the name of larynx has been given by anatomists; of these, the lower, or that nearest the lungs, is the true vocal ap- paratus; the upper is merely a resonating or reciprocating ca- vity destined to enhance the in- tensity of the sounds generated in the lower. Cuvier showed that an opening between the two organs did not destroy the power of producing sounds, so long as the inferior larynx was unin- jux’ed. The human larynx is a kind of box, composed of pieces which may he moved on each other, and encloses the membranous bands in which the vocal vibrations are produced. These pieces, when articulated together, constitute the skeleton of Cartilages of larynx and epiglottis, and upper rings of trachea in situ seen from behind. From a preparation in the Anatomical Museum, King’s College, by Mr. Cane. a. arytenoid cartilages, b. superior coniu. c. inferior cornu, d. posterior surface of cricoid, e. foramen for supe- rior laryngeal nerve. /. perforations of epiglottis, i. upper margin of thyroid, t. trachea, h. right inferior tubercle. the larynx. They are com- posed of cartilage, and form a very curious mechanism. There are five distinct pieces (two of which are symme-