117 CHAP. XX.] THE GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. membrane of that cavity and of the Eustachian tube. But its principal branches are those on the pharynx and tongue, which latter region, however, it must not be forgotten, has another nerve distri- buted to its mucous membrane. Its digastric branch seems to be anastomotic with a similar one from the facial. The mode of origin of this nerve affords but a feeble clue to the .dis- covery of its physiological import. Muller and others attach some j value to the existence of the ganglion, involving only some of its fibres shortly after their origin, and from the analogy with spinal nerves and with the fifth, they infer that the glossopharyngeal must be a compound nerve of double origin, containing both motor and sensi- tive fibres. There is not, however, sufficiently certain evidence of the existence of two roots to this nerve to justify us in founding upon it an argument respecting its function. The most extensive series of experiments on this subject are those of Dr. John Eeid, and they have very satisfactorily developed the proper functions of the nerve. Section of the nerve, or irritation of it, always caused pain, and hence it may be said to contain fibres of common sensation. ^yhen the trunk of the nerve was irritated before giving off its pharyngeal branches, extensive muscular movements of the throat and lower part of the face were produced. It was found that these movements were equally produced, and to as great an ex- tent, if the nerve had been cut a short way below its exit from the cranium, and the cranial end of it irritated. Hence it was evident that the movements were caused, not by the direct influence of the branches of the glossopharyngeal upon the muscles, but by that of the cranial end of the nerve upon the me- dulla oblongata, whence the change was propagated to the muscles through the fibres of the vagus nerve and through those of the facial, which emanate from the same part of the nervous centre. This view of the mode in which the glossopharyngeal causes mus- cular action is confirmed by the result of experiments on it in ani- mals just dead. When the nerve was Irritated under those circum- stances, no movements could be excited, provided it was sufficiently insulated from the pharyngeal branches of the vagus. Now, were the fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal motor, there is no doubt that mechan- ical irritation of them would have caused muscular contraction. Hence, the glossopharyngeal is one of those sensitive nerves which is capable of exciting motion through its influence upon motor fibres implanted immediately contiguous to it in the nervous centre. It appeared, however, that other fibres were capable of exciting the