33 L CHAP. XXVIII.] THE HUMAN HEART. Of the Heart. — Tliis hollow muscular organ, which, like a forcing pump, drives tlic blood througliout the vascular system, varies in its constitution, according to the complexity of the circula- tion, from a simple muscular tube, such as the dorsal vessel of in- sects, to the complex double heart of man, with its four cavities and its beautiful apparatus of valves. Tlie dorsal vessel of insects is the most simple condition of the heart. It con- sists of a muscular tube provided with certain valves, disposed like those of veins ; tliese, by affording an obstacle to the flow of the blood in one direction, determine the course in which it is propelled by the contraction of the muscular wall, namely, towards the head. It is situated along the middle of the back, whence its name. At the points which correspond to the situation of the internal valves, it exhibits distinct constrictions, which in some insects are so marked, that the vessel appears to consist of “ a series of slightly conical segments, partially sheathed one upon the other.” (Owen.) The blood is propelled to the head through a tubular prolonga- tion of the dorsal vessel, which corresponds to the aorta; this divides into numer- ous branches, which soon lose themselves in the areolfe, or diffused sinuses, which occupy the spaces between the tissues of the insect; from these sinuses, as from veins, the blood is returned to the heart, and enters that tube at several points, at its posterior, or caudal extremity, as well as at several apertures which are found on each side of the dorsal vessel, near the points of attachment of the valves. In Crustacea the heart is likewise of a very simple form. In some of the lower Crustacea it is simply a muscular vessel, as in insects ; in the higher animals of this class, as in crabs and lobsters, it forms a distinct muscular cavity, or ventricle, giving origin to arteries, and pierced by several venous orifices through which the blood is poured from the large venous sinuses which receive it on its return from the body. It is situated, as in insects, beneath the enlargement of the back. In the Molluscous classes the heart still retains great simplicity of structure. In the lowest of these, as Tunicata, it is still a muscular vessel, propelling the blood through arteries which ramify on the respiratory organ, whence it is taken up by veins, and returned to the heart. In the compound Ascidians, we meet with the remarkable phenomenon of the oscillation of the currents of the circulation, under the influence of a change in the direction of the peristaltic contractions of the heart. In the Acephalous mollusks we first observe the subdivision of the heart into two compartments, or cavities ; an auricle which receives the blood from the veins and transmits it to a fusiform ventricle which drives it to the various parts of the body. In one of the most highly organized of the Acephalous mollusks, Venus chione, Professor Owen describes two auricles, which receive the blood from the veins of the gills, and transmit it to the single fusiform ventricle, which is perfo- rated by the rectum : and in the genus Area, the ventricle is divided into two cavities, having the rectum in the interspace. An artery is continued from each extremity of the ventricle, which distributes the oxygenated blood over the viscera Vitalis. Vienna, 1812. Bichat, indeed (1801), had erected these vessels into a system intermediate to that of the arteries and of the veins, but no anatomist who compares the descriptions of the two writers will hesitate to give to the former the merit of a more intimate practical knowledge of the anatomy of these vessels. z 2