CHAP. XXVIII.] THE CONTRACTILITY OF ARTERIES. 355 one of Hunter’s experiments, the posterior tibial artery of a clog was laid bare: it was observed, in a short time, to be so much contracted, “as almost'to prevent the blood from passing through it, and when divided the blood only oozed out from the orifice. ^ Mechanical stimulation, applied to a living artery, such as gentle friction with the point of a scalpel or needle, excites in its wall a slow and gradual contraction at the point stimulated, so that it appears constricted at that point. We have, by stimulating an artery in this ivay, at several points at some distance from each other, produced quite a moniliform appearance of it, causing a series of constrictions separated by portions in M'hich the size of the artery was little altered. Verschuir was among the first to observe the effects of mechanical stimulation upon arteries, and he has recorded the results of his observations in his Inaugural Dissertation de Arteriarum et Venarum vi irritabili, published in 1766; and numerous experiments of a similar kind were performed in this country by our friend, Dr., now Sir Charles Hastings, which are detailed in his treatise on Inflammation of the Mucous Membrane of the Lungs, published in 1820. The galvanic stimulus is also capable of producing contractions in arteries, but it requires to be repeatedly renewed before the effect is manifest. The most striking results from the application of this kind of stimulus, were obtained by the Webers, in their experi- ments with the rotatory magneto-electric instrument. The shocks were applied to the small mesenteric arteries of frogs, and a diminu- tion of their diameter to one third was produced, in from four to ten seconds; and the contraction increased under the continuance of the stimulus, until the calibre of the vessel became from three to six times smaller than at first, so that only a single row of blood corpuscles could pass through it; at length the vessel became com- pletely closed, and the circulation through it stopped. From the combined evidence of anatomy and experiments, then, it can no longer be doubted that arteries possess an inherent con- tractility, in virtue of the presence of unstriped muscular fibres in their tunics. It remains to inquire, in what manner this power influences the circulation in the arterial system. Does it help to propel the blood ? This question may be answered in the negative. The manner in which arterial trunks taper towards their distal extremities, renders it mechanically impossible that the contraction of circular muscular fibres around them would drive the blood onwards unless some valvular apparatus checked its passage back- Hunter on tlie Blood, &c. 4to, cd. p. 114.