CHAP. XXIII.] DENTINE. 169 Fig. 149. pear to derive their peculiar characters from the mechanical exigences of the case. The tooth having to sustain rude pressure on its crown, chiefly in a vertical direction, great density and compactness are requisite in its main constituent, and its internal vascular surface, which is small in proportion to the mass of dentine, is centrally placed, and receives its vessels and nerves at the deepest point, most remote from injury. As the vascular surface is small, and therefore at a great distance from a large proportion of the tissue, the in- terstitial channels of the dentine are capa- cious, especially towards the vascular surface, and comparatively direct in their course from it; and, instead of commencing minute as the caualiculi of bone do, and dilating at inter- vals, after a tortuous and irregular route, into hollow chambers, like the lacunae of that texture, they are widest at their commence- ment in the pulp-cavity, retain throughout the simple tubular chaiactei, and are pio— vertical section of human in- vided for the most part with proper walls; so rang^mtnT'^of % Suuen't that each tubule may be regarded as a hollow t^enamefon the‘‘crowi.; rod, the stem of which is of a harder and com- “ N^ek^f pacter nature than the intertubular substance 3 diameters, through which it runs. The direction taken by the tubes is further interesting; for not only do they radiate on all sides from the vascular surface, as being the conduits of nutrition to the dentine, but they thus confer on every part of the tooth a greater power of resistance in an in- ward direction from the surface towards the centre, a power in- creased by the cylindrical shape of the pulp-cavity, and its tendency to an arched figure towards the crown. But it would appear that the beauty of the mechanical contrivance does not stop even here, for it has been observed that the tubes in many parts are doubly waved, like the Italic /, and that within these primary curves are comprised very numerous secondary meanderings ; from which, as those of contiguous tubes have a lateral correspondence, a certain elasticity, and a greater capacity of resisting external force, must accrue. The tubuli of the dentine now described branch a few times dichotomously, and the branches retain for some distance the diame- ter of the trunk, this multiplication of their number enabling them