44 INNERVATION. [chap. xvii. I duct^ into the inferior meatus of 1 the nose, where it opens under cover of the lower spongy bone. A fold of mucous membrane usu- ally guards its orifice. * Of the ‘phenomena of vision*— | The consideration of the changes I produced in the rays of light pass- ing through a double convex lens explains, to a great degree, the - phenomena resulting from the pas- sage of the rays through the diop- - trie media of the eye. . A ray, falling on the surface of 'I such a lens, is bent towards the | perpendicular to the point of in- j cidence, and continues in that i . . V,- direction to the opposite surface ' * The following laws affecting the passage of rays of light through transparent media of various density ought to be kept steadily in view by the student of the •! physiology of vision. ; ' 1. A ray of light, in its passage from a rare into a dense medium, is bent, * j' or, in optical language, refracted, towards the perpendicular to the point of inci- dence, if it fall obliquely upon the surface of the latter medium. The direction of the ray, therefore, is altered in the dense medium. The degree of this refraction . depends partly upon the density of the medium, and partly upon the angle at ’j which the ray falls upon it (the angle of incidence). If the ray of light fall upon [ the transparent surface at right angles to it, it will pass through it without under- ^ going any change in its direction. | 2. If the ray pass from a dense to a rare medium, it will be refracted from the ti perpendicular to the point of incidence. 3. It is obvious, from what has been stated, that the incident and refracted ray y will be always on different sides of the perpendicular. 4 4. In all cases where rays of light pass from one transparent medium to another, ^ a certain portion of them is reflected at the surface of each new medium. If, there- fore, light pass through many different media in succession, much of it will be com- 1' pletely diverted from its original direction by reflexion. i 5. In general, the greater the specific gravity of a body, the greater is its refract- ; ing power. 6. If a pencil of rays diverging from a luminous point fall directly upon the sur- face of a convex lens, they will not all be equally refracted. Tbe central ray will pass through unchanged in its course. Those nearest the centre will be least re- fracted ; those most distant from it (which consequently fall with the greatest ob- j liquity upon the surface of the refracting medium) will be most refracted. \ 7. On tlic emergence of the rays of light from a bi-convex lens into air, or any j other medium less dense than the lens itself, each ray will be bent away from the j Fig. 130. Anterior view of the Lacrymal Apparatus.—The laerymal gland is shown in outline. At the inner canthus are the puneta and canalicuU, with the caruncula between them. The laerymal sac forms the upper third of the vertical tube, and the nasal duct the remainder. These parts are separated within by a fold of the lining membrane.—From Soemmerring.