KIDNEY. CHAP. XXXIV.] 483 these glands is not determined in the Crustacea; but among the Arachnida tubes composed of basement-membrane, and containing epithelium, exist, Guanin also has been detected in them, so that there can be little doubt of their real nature. Among Insects, renal organs exist as long narrow tubes, and the presence of uric acid has been detected in several species. In the Molhtsca, except in the lowest class, kidneys are distinctly observed, and are either two in niunber, or combined to form a single organ with an excretory duct. The spongy organs of the Cephalopoda have been proved to be true kidneys, and uric acid has been detected in them with the murexide test by E. Hai-less. Kidneys exist thi’oughout the vertebrate classes, and are com- posed of tubular glands, provided with one or more efferent ducts, connected with which are often observed numerous appendages. The uriniferous tubule consists essentially of a toidiuous tube of basement-membrane, lined with secreting epithehum, and dilated at its closed extremity, so as to embrace a tuft of highly-tortuous capillary vessels. The specific gravity of the healthy kidney is about I'OSO, hut is liable to vary somewhat, according to the quantity of fluid which exists in the organ at the time of examination. The following is an analysis of the cortical portion of a healthy human kidney by Dr. Beale. The organ Avas taken from the body of a healthy man, thirty-one years of age, who was killed by falling from a second-floor windoAv ;— "Water 76-450 100 parts of Solid Matter. Solid matter 23-550 Fatty matter, containing much cholesterine . -939 3-98 Extractive matter, soluble in water 5-840 24-79 Fixed alkaline salts 1-010 4-28 Earthy salts -396 1-68 Albumen, vessels, etc 15-365 65-24 Even in health, the proportion of water and solid matter varies greatly, which fully accounts for the varying statements of difierent observers with respect to the weight of the healthy kidney. In disease, the composition of the secreting structure of the kidney undergoes great alteration. The fat is very much increased in quantity in kidneys' in a state of fatty degeneration. The relative proportion of the solids generally may be much diminished in quantity, which is remarkably the case in some specimens of en- larged kidney. The increase of size, in these instances, being ac- counted for by an unusual quantity of water in the tissue of the organ; but in many cases, it is, no doubt, dependent upon deposi- tion of new matter. In a very large kidney, weighing half a pound.