158 DIGESTION. [chap. XXII. ing a diseased person ; but we must give him that kind of food (whether in large or small quantity) which his digestive organs can most readily assimilate, and which will not serve as pabulum to the morbid matter which is apt to be generated in his system. It is in diseases of the kidneys and liver that the most manifest good is de- rived from a well directed dietetic system. In diabetes it has long been determined that a diet of animal food, with abstinence from sugar, and substances, such as starch, capable of being converted into sugar, is productive of excellent results. In diseases of the liver, more is to be gained by close attention to the quantity of the food than to the quality; at the same time that it must be borne in mind that a nitrogenized diet is more suitable than one abounding in carbon, which would throw upon that organ a work of elimina- tion greater than it may be able to bear. In the rheumatic and gouty diatheses attention to diet is the main resource to counteract the tendency to generate the morbid agents which severally pro- duce those states of constitution. When there is a tendency to the accumulation of fat, a nitrogenized diet in regulated quantity is the most suitable to obviate it. When more carbon enters the system than is required for the calorifacient and respiratory functions, or for the nourishment of tissues, it will accumulate as fat: and it is only to be removed by the free admis- sion of oxygen to consume it, care being taken at the same time not to favour further accumulation by the supply of too much food, especially of the non-azotized kind. The practice of trainers fur- nishes a useful commentary on this point, and may be imitated by many who suffer from dyspepsia. The following account of the system pursued in training was communicated to Sir John Sinclair by Mr. Jackson :— “ The diet is simple—animal food alone ; and it is recommended to take very little salt and some vinegar with the food, which pre- vents thirst, and is good to promote leanness. Vegetables are never given, as turnips, carrots, and potatoes; but bread is allowed, only it must be stale. They breakfast upon meat about eight o’clock, and dine at two. Suppers are not recommended, but they may take a biscuit and a little cold meat about eight o’clock, two hours before they go to bed. It is reckoned much against a man’s wind to go to bed with a full stomach, and they in general take a walk after supper. Some people will have tea; but it is not recom- mended, nor is it strengthening, and no liquor is given warm. Full and substantial meals are given at breakfast and dinner ; beef and mutton are best. It is contended that there is more nourishment