332 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap. xxvm. the muscular system, and tlie mantle. The heart of the Gasteropoda, likewise, consists of a single ventricle, which propels the blood to the viscera and the mus- cular system of the body, and receives it from the branchim by one, and sometimes by two, auricles. In the Cephalopoda, the most highly organized mollusks, the general plan of the heart is the same as in the Gasteropoda. Tlie venous blood is received from all parts of the body by great venous sinuses, whicli also take up the blood from the gills ; these veins communicate with the heart, which consists of a single cavity, whence arise the two main arteries of the body, called the superior and h^erior aorta. In Fishes, the lieart consists of two cavities ; one, large, loose, and thin-walled, which receives the venous blood—the auricle; the second, thick and fleshy—the ventricle, whence an artery springs, the first portion of which, dilated and sur- rounded by thick muscular fibres, constitutes what is called the aortic bulb. In the Batrachian icptiles there arc trvo auricles, one which receives the blood from the veins of the body—the systemic auricle; the other, which receives it from the lungs, the pulmonic auricle. Both auricles communicate with a single ventricle, whence the blood is propelled throughout the body, as well as to the lungs. In Serpents, the heart presents a similar structure; but in the Python the ventricle is divided by an imperfect septum into two chambers, one of winch com- municates with the aorta, the other with the pulmonary artery. In the Saurian reptiles, likewise, there arc two auricles, and a ventricle, which latter is subdi\ided into two or more cavities, communicating with each other, and with certain arteries which spring from them—excepting in the American alligator {Crocodilus lucius), in which the existence of a perfect septum creates two distinct ventricles. In Birds and Mammals the heart exhibits its highest devclopement, consisting, as it docs, of two auricles and two ventricles, separated by a complete septum ; each auricle communicating with its proper ventricle, and each ventricle giving rise to an arterial trunk. The human heart, in the adult subject, occupies an oblique posi- tion in the thorax. Its apex is directed downwards, forwards, and to the left side, and in the quiescent state corresponds to the interval between the fifth and sixth ribs. Its base corresponds to the interval between the third or fourth, and the eighth dorsal vertehroe, from which it is separated by the parts contained in the posterior mediastinum. The base of the heart corresponds in front to the sternum at about the level of the cartilage of the third rib. The weight of the human heart in the adult is about 11 ounces for the male, and 9 ounces for the female (John Reid). The two great arteries, the aorta and pulmonary arteries, spring from the base of the heart in front. Posteriorly the base is formed by the auricles. Both the anterior and the posterior surfaces of the heart are divided into two, by means of a groove which corresponds to the anterior and posterior margins of the septum of the ventricles, and which passes from base to apex. The anterior groove contains the left