262 [chav. XXV. DIGESTION. addition of the tartrate of potass and copper causes a precipita- tion of the brown oxide of copper. Yeast added to it at a certain temperature causes fermentation; and alcohol may be obtained from the fermented fluid by distillation. There can be no doubt, then, that sugar is formed in the capil- laries of the liver independently of the food; it is equally certain that fat is separated at the same point, for it appears in the hepatic cells; this, too, is doubtless the result of chemical changes in the hepatic circulation, independent of the food, because we find good grounds for concluding that the fat of the food, emulsified by the pancreatic fluid, is absorbed by the villi, and does not reach the liver. Thus are formed in the laboratory of the liver these two products —fat and sugar, very nearly allied in chemical constitution. The former is carried into the intestine with the bile, and there ab- sorbed, with the fat of the food, by the villi. The latter is carried by the hepatic veins to the right side of the heart, and thence to the lungs; and both appear to be formed by the liver, whether they have existed in the food or not. What, then, it may be asked, can be the object of the formation of these products by the liver ? If it be to feed the calorifacient process, then the additional question arises, why should each pass to the right side of the heart by a different route ? It seems to us that there is in these arrangements distinct in- dication of a provision for the slow and gradual transmission to the lungs of these carbonaceous elements; in order to guard against the blood in these organs becoming surcharged by them so as to inter- fere with the due introduction of oxygen. It seems necessary for health that the blood should be supplied, on the one hand, duly, but gradually^ with carbonaceous matters, such as sugar and fat, and, on the other hand, with oxygen; when the former elements are deficient, fever is the result, the elements of the tissues are consumed by the devouring element, oxygen; and hence it is that we often see such striking results from the gradual introduction of alcohol, or other carbonaceous matters, into the system ; but when the latter element is deficient, the great vital changes of the blood are delayed, or suspended, and death rapidly ensues. And in the various diseased states of the body there are infinite shades of difierence, as regards the supply or the defect of these great elements ; either too much carbon or too much oxygen ; or the one is normal in amount, while the other is deficient. A common result of the too ready assimilation of carbonaceous