[chap. XL GENERATION. 570 Fig. 271. An ovum also from the upper part of the uterus, showing tlie furtlier subdivision of the yolk; but the separate portions are beginning to become incorporated. All the ova delineated in Fig. 271 have ment of the Guinea-pig. Giessen, 1852. An ovum from the upper part of the uterus, on the sixth day. Tlie yolk-masses liave become incoiporated into a single mass, wliich does not entirely occupy the cavity of tlie zona pellucida. been copied from Bischoff’s beautiful Memoir on the Develop- It is in this space^ or “ area germinitiva,” that the first traces of the embryo appear; and it is developed upon the surface of the “ ger- minal membrane/^ or “ blastodermic vesicle/^ being covered only by the zona pellucida. As occurs in the bird’s egg, the germinal membrane soon becomes divided into two layers : an external or '‘set'ous layer,” or animal layer, in which the brain and nervous system and different organs of animal life are developed; and an internal mucous" or vegetative layer, from which the alimentary canal and organs of vegetative life take their rise. At the same time that these changes are taking place in the interior, the albuminous layer on the external surface of the ovum coalesces with the zona pellucida, forming a single membrane, from which the chorion is formed, or, as maintained by Dr. Barry, the zona pellucida is first removed, and a completely new in- vesting membrane produced. Formation of Decidua.—Besides the changes which occur in the ovum immediately after conception, which result in the formation of the embryo, and the development of a new covering termed the chorion upon its external surface, alterations of another order arc taking place in the uterus, by which its internal surface becomes adapted for providing nourishment for the embryo in its very early stages, before it has reached that period of development when it is enabled to derive its nutriment by direct absorption from the blood of the mother. The change in question consists in the for-