314 [chap. XXVII. THE BLOOD. and spleen—the diminution in the coloured particles is accompanied by a remarkable increase in the number of the colourless particles. Some cases of this condition of blood have lately been collected by Professor J. H. Bennett, who proposes for the name Leucocythemia {'KZVKog, white; KVTog, a cell; blood).* The fatty matters of the blood are sometimes increased in quantity apparently from non-elimination. Under these circum- stances the serum becomes quite milky, an appearance which is quite characteristic of this state of blood, and may be removed by ether. We have already alluded (p. 296) to the milkiness which follows the ingestion of fatty food, but which cannot be regarded as abnormal. There is a condition of blood to which F. Simon has given the name spancemia (tTTavog, poor), and which is popularly called hlood. This is characterized by changes in the quality rather than in the quantity of the blood-constituents, and especially, perhaps, in the quality of the fibrine. When the hlood is in this state, hseinor- rhages are of frequent occurrence, owing probably to the imperfect manner in which the coats of the blood-vessels are nourished. Pur- pura and scurvy are well known diseases, of which the prominent feature consists in this poorness of blood. In the former malady we have found the hlood corpuscles shrivelled, and even disintegrated ;f but it is difficult to determine whether this was due to a defect in their mode of generation and development, or to a diminished spe- cific gravity of the serum favourable to its endosmose by them.j * Monthly Journal of Med. Science, Edinb. Jan. 1851. + Sec a case. X On the subject of the blood, reference is made to the works on Physiology already quoted; Hewson’s works, by Gulliver (Sydm. Soe.) ; J. Hunter on the Blood, &c.; Mr. Gulliver’s numerous and valuable observations in the appendix to the English edition of Gerber’s Anatomy, and in his notes to Hewson’s works; Simon’s Animal Chemistry, by Day (Sydm. Soe.) ; Wharton Jones, On the Blood- corpuscle considered in its different Phases of Developement in the Animal Series, Pliil. Trans. 1846 ; Kolliker fiber die Blut-Kfirperchen cines menschlichcn Embryo und die Entvvickelung der Blut-Korperchen bei Saugetliieren ; Nasse, fiber das Blut; Sharpey and Quain’s Anatomy; Dr. Miller’s article on Organic Analysis in the Cyclop, of Anat.; Andral, Essai d’Hematologie Pathologique; Becquercl and Rodier, Recherches sur la Composition du Sang, &c., 1844 ; Dr. Owen Rees on tlie Blood and Urine ; Mr. J. E. Bowman’s Practical Hand-Book of Jlcdical Cliemistry; Mr. John Simon’s Lectures on General Pathology, 1850.