[chap. XXXI. VOICE. 436 insertions of the thyro-arytenoid muscles, whenee the fibres radiate downwards, obliquely backwards, and even somewhat upwards, forming a eontinuous membrane which passes to the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages, lines the ventricles of the larynx, and is connected with the crico-thyroid ligaments and the vocal chords, both true and false. The thyro-hyoid ligament is likewise elastic; and also the fibrous bands which connect the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone and the tongue. “ If,” says Muller, “ we add to these parts the elastic longitudinal fibres in the membranous part of the trachea and bronchi, we shall have an idea of the great extent of the tissues susceptible of consensual vibration and resonance in the parts surrounding the organ of Fig. 212. voice. The mucous membrane of the larynx is part of the great respira- tory tract, described at page 162, and possesses the same anatomical characters at many points, being covered by ciliated epithelium. It is involuted to a considerable extent, forming numerous glands which cover the epiglottis, and are scattered over the interior of the larynx. We have seen that the cricoid cartilage may move freely on the thyroid, or vice versa; and the arytenoids may be moved in various directions on the upper border of the cricoid. More- over, suspended, as it is, loosely in front of the pharynx and oesophagus, the ivhole apparatus of the larynx may be moved freely up and down in the neck, approximating, or reced- ing from the lower jaw. For these various movements the larynx is provided with two sets of muscles—the extrinsic, by which the whole organ is View of larynx from above, after Willis. 6. Cigft- TviovPfl and the intrinsic, ments uniting arytenoid and cricoid cartilages, c. > nndrf. Dircetion of axis on which the thyroid cartilage flpofinpd to reaUllate tllC mOVC- tums. c. Thyi-oid cartilage. A. Left thyro-arytenoid vu 5 muscle; right removed. I, v, x. Cricoid cartilage. of the VariOUS SCg- m. Right crico-arytenoid muscle, n. Arytenoid car- <=> tilages. 0. Crico-arytenoidic-postici muscles, r. Pos- yopilts terior part of cricoid cartilage, t. v. vocal ligaments. • * Muller’s Physiology, by Baly, vol. ii., p-1005.