623 CHAP. XLIII.] UMBILICAL CORD. embryo, as it does in many animals; but this statement lias been completely refuted by the researches of Miiller, BischoflF, Langen- beck, and others. Umbilical Cord.—The umbilical cord is the long, narrow pedicle, contained in a tube of the amnion, which connects the foetus with the placenta. In the advanced embryo, it consists principally of the large vessels, through the intervention of which all the nutrient material absorbed from the blood of the mother is conducted to the system of the foetus. At an earlier period of development, the cord is really composed of— 1. The remains of the omphalo-enteric duct, or pedicle of the umbilical vesicle. 2. The vasa omphalo-meseraica, or branches of the mesenteric vessels of the foetus. 3. The urachus, and all that remains of the allantois. 4. The umbilical vessels; consisting of one umbilical vein, which brings the blood back from the placenta, and two umbilical arte- ries, by which the blood is carried to the placenta. In animals generally, however, there are two veins, as well as two arteries, which are the chief branches of the hypogastric arte- ries of the foetus. The circulation of the foetus has been fully described in page 348. Birth.—In the human subject, the period of pregnancy lasts about nine solar, or ten lunar, months, or 280 days. It varies, however, within certain limits. The phenomena of parturition are specially treated of in works on Midwifery; so that a very brief reference to this part of the subject will only be required. Of the immediate cause of the contraction of the uterus, little is known. Valentin attributes it to the excitement of the organs which always exists at the menstrual periods; and he considers that parturition takes place at the tenth menstrual period. Dr. Tyler Smith has advocated a similar view, and believes that the contractions of the uterus are due to the increased action of the ovaries operating upon the cord through the ovarian nerves, which act as excitors; while the uterus is thrown into contraction through the medium of the uterine nerves, which are therefore to be regarded as the motor nerves concerned in this reflex action. The action of the uterus is no doubt in part due to the stimulus produced by the increasing bulk of its contents. The foetus lies in utero with its head downwards during the later