419 CHAP. XXX.] TEMPER (VTURE OF HUMAN BODY, and 111° F., the mammalia having the lower and birds the higher, in strict accordance with the above-mentioned circumstances. A bird, for its weight, consumes much more oxygen, and sets free much more cai’bonic acid, while it maintains in the same medium a higher temperature, than a mammal. Finally, some degree of warmth is evolved by the egg in its development during incubation. In this process, oxygen is absorbed, and carbonic acid exhaled through the calcareous envelope. The amount of heat developed in the animal organism, depends very much upon the nature and quantity of the food. The carbon of the food in its slowly effected union with oxygen within the organism, gives out probably as much heat as if the same quantity were burnt in oxygen gas. The development of animal heat will, therefore, in great measure depend upon the activity of the functions of respiration and circulation. The greater part of the oxygen which an adult consumes in the twenty-four hours, instead of remaining in the body, thereby in- creasing its weight, xmites with carbon and hydrogen, and is removed in the form of carbonic acid and water. The remainder enters into combination with other elements, and compounds are formed which are removed by the excreting glands. In these com- binations a large amount of heat is developed, ranging in amount according to the conditions before referred to. Temperature of the Human Body.—The heat of the interior of the body at those parts which are most accessible to our instriunents of measurement, as, for instance in the axilla, within the mouth or rectum, is found to be about 97° or 99° F.; more frequently the latter. The temperature is, however, liable to variation according to circumstances, which modify the amount of heat generated within the body or the rapidity of its loss. Independently of this, however, great differences have been found to exist in the temper- atm’e of different parts, according to the rate of their cooling, their vascularity, distance from the centre of circulation, etc. A good idea of this will be derived from the following Table of Dr. Edwards. He examined a strong man, at rest, in July, the air being at 71° F,, and found Mouth and rectum . . . 102° Hands 990.5 Axilla) and groin .... 99° Cheeks 90o Feet ...... 90° Skin of Epigastrium . . . 95°