DEVELOPMENT 604 [chap. xlii. line of the body. The anterior pair are the jugular veins, and the posterior pair are the cardinal veins, which carry back the blood from the Wolffian bodies and hinder parts of the embryo. Besides these trunks, however, there is a single one below, which receives the blood from the omphalo-mesenteric veins, and into this trunk the umbilical veins open subsequently. It becomes eventually converted into the inferior vena cava. The pulsations of the heart commence before any cavity can be observed in the mass of embryonic cells of which it at first consists. Prevost and Lebert have observed the contractions before the development of any tissue distinctly muscular—a statement which we can confirm from observations upon the heai’t of the young field-snake (coluber natrix). Bischoff and Vogt also testify to the very early occurrence of pulsations. In the human subject, about the fom’th week, the septum between the ventricles commences to be formed. This is com- pleted by the termination of the eighth week. The auricular septum, however, remains incomplete throughout foetal life. The circulation in the foetus, and the peculiarities of the foetal heart, have been already described in page 348 of the present volume. Aortic Arches.—In fishes, the vessel continuous with the bulbus arteriosus gives off on either side large branches, which are dis- tributed to the gills; from these organs the blood is collected by small vessels, which ultimately re-unite to form a large trunk corresponding to the aorta, which lies immediately in front of the spine. In the early embryos of all vertebrate animals, similar branches, called aortic arches, may be seen; and these unite at the back of the visceral cavity, to form the descending aorta. They are visible in the chick about the fortieth hour, according to Dr. Allen Thomson. In birds there are at first six aortic arches; buty as development proceeds, the number becomes less. In mammalia the arches soon diminish to three. One becomes the arch of the aorta, and the other two are the ductus arteriosi of the pulmonary artery, of which the right soon disappears, so that at length only two arches remain—one from the I’ight, and the other from the left ventricle. The anterior part of the arch from the former becomes the trunk of the pulmonary artery; while the cavity of the posterior portion (ductus artei'iosus), which leads into the aorta, gradually becomes obliterated, and soon after birth nothing remains of it but a fibrous cord, between the aorta and pulmonary artery, which marks its original position throixghout life.