185 CHAP. XXllI.] TUE PHARYNX AND PALATE. stomach; and Spallanzani observed that aliments enclosed in per- forated tubes, and introduced into the stoiuachs of living animals, were earlier digested when previously mixed with saliva, than with \vater. Dr, Wright injected saliva into the blood-vessels of dogs, and found the animals dying in a few days or weeks, with symptoms much resembling those of hydrophobias. In other instances, where he employed white of egg, isinglass, and mucus, no such effects ensued.* Of Deglutition.—The parts concerned in this act are the mouth, the pharynx, and the oesophagus, the two latter of which remain to be considered. The pharynx., as usually described, consists of all that cavity lined with mucous membrane which is situated in front of the cervical vertebrae, behind the nose, mouth, and larynx, below the base of the skull, and above the oesophagus. This cavity, however, as we shall shew, comprises two parts entirely distinct from one another : an upper, with its walls never in contact, lined with ciliated epithe- lium and containing air, which we shall term the respiratory com- partment, being in fact strictly a portion of the air-passages; and a lower, dilatable and contractile, lined with scaly epithelium, and giving jjassage to the food from the mouth to the oesophagus, which we shall term the alimentary compartment, as it is a portion of the alimentary tube. The air-passages are interrupted between the upper compartment and the glottis, and in this interval the air has to traverse the lower or alimentary compartment in its course from the nose to the lungs. The alimentary and respiratory tubes may thus be said to intersect each other in this common cavity, a fact of leading importance to the understanding of the anatomical ar- rangement of these parts. Not to speak of the laws of develope- ment to which this free communication of the two great tracts ministering to the nutrient function may be referrible, (a communi- cation still freer previous to the fusion of the sides of the palate at an early stage of foetal existence,) it may be sufficient to allude to the great end answered by it, viz. the bringing the whole appa- ratus of the mouth into connexion with the lungs for articulation and speech, and to the subordinate object of much heightening the sense of taste during mastication, by allowing the odour of the food to ascend from the mouth and pharynx to the olfactory region through the posterior nares. (See vol. i. p. 446.) • Lancet, 1844. Br. and For. Med. Rev., Jan. 1847.