366 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD, [chap, xxviii. n When this tube Is fitted to the conical pipes, then the bent glass tube, previously filled with water, must be fixed to it by means of the short tubes (A,//,C), the stopcock being so turned as to shut off all communication with the glass tube. As soon as the instrument has been properly fixed in the artery, the blood is allowed to flow into the glass tube. It may be now seen to traverse the glass tube with a velocity very nearly the same as it has in the artery, and in doing so it pushes the water before it into the peripheral blood- vessels, with (according to Volkmann) only a very slight admixture between the two fluids. By trials made with his hajmodromometer, Volkmann found, in the case of seven dogs, that the blood flowed in their carotids with a velocity ranging between 205 and 357 millimetres in a second ; in that of horses, 306 to 234; in the metatarsal artery of the horse, 56, and in the maxillary artery of the same animal, 99; in the carotid of a calf, 431. The average velocity in the carotids of mammals is stated by Volkmann to be 300* millimetres in a second. It results, likewise, from these observations, that the velocity of the blood in the large arteries, and also in the large veins, is con- siderably greater than in the capillaries; that the velocity in arteries is not uniform, but is suddenly increased at each systole of the heart; and that the blood moves most quickly in the arteries nearest the heart. It appears, also, that the blood’s velocity is materially lessened by loss of blood, and that increased rate of pulse, which alw^ays follows considerable losses of blood, is no indi- cation of a more rapid blood-current, but, ou the contrary, often accompanies a retardation of it. The velocity of the blood-current is influenced not so much by the rate of action of the heart, as by the intensity of its systole, and the quantity of blood which it expels at each contraction. Much was formerly said respecting the disposition of the arterial tree, being such that the combined areas of the branches of an artery exceeded that of the trunk, and that with each succeeding series of subdivisions, the blood flows into an increased area. Haller (tom. i. p. 77), ascribes the first observation of this kind to an Englishman named Cole.*|* It is repeated by Keill, Hales, and many others, among them John Hunter and Sir C. Bell. The general eftect of such an arrangement would obviously be to diminish the * Tolerably close approximations to the value of these measurements in English inches, maybe obtained by dividing each number by 25. t De Secrctione animali. Oxon. 1674.