cHAP.xxiv.] CHANGES IN THE GASTRIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 197 white colour and a wrinkled appearance, from the existence of nninerous minnte folds upon it, which stretching does not obli- terate. At the same time the whole surface of the membrane is covered by a layer of mucus, which varies in its thickness and in its viscidity. It may be inferred from Bearimont’s observations, that similar phenomena are met with in the human stomach. Beaumont found, that, immediately on the introduction of food into the stomach, the vessels of the mucous membrane became more injected, much, no doubt, as those of the conjunctiva of the eye would become filled on the application of a foreign body ; and that its colour became deeper, being changed from a pale pink to a deep red. A pure, colourless, and slightly viscid fluid, with distinct acid reaction, was then observed to distil from the surface of the membrane, and to collect in drops at various points of it, trickling down the wall of the stomach until it mingled with the food. The exudation of this fluid was always excited by the contact of any foreign substance ; even so smooth a substance as the bulb of a thermometer invariably excited it on its introduction, and even when it had been pi’eviously ascer- tained that the stomach was empty, and exhibited no reaction. During fasting Mr. Beaumont observed no evidence of the exist- ence of such a fluid as this, the sole contents of the stomach being then only a little viscid mucus, occasionally slightly acidulated. Beaumont describes this fluid as being clear, transparent, inodorous, saltish, and resembling in taste thin mucilaginous water slightly acidulated with muriatic acid. It is, he states, readily diffusible in water, wine, or spirits, and effervesces slightly with alkaline car- bonates. It coagulates albumen, and is powerfully antiseptic, checking putrefaction in meat. When pure it will keep for many months; but if diluted with saliva, it becomes foetid in a few days. According to the analysis of Professor Dunglison it contained free muriatic and acetic acids, phosphates and muriates of potass, soda, magnesia, and lime. Beaumont’s observations were made during a period extending between May, 1825, and March, 1833. Various observations and experiments, commencing from a date long antecedent to this, had led to a very generally received opinion among physiologists that the mucous membrane of the stomach was the seat of a special se- cretion, which had a great share in effecting the changes which the food undergoes in the stomach. Ileaumur was the first to offer satisfactory proof of the secretion of a solvent fluid for the purposes of digestion by the walls of the