[chap. XXV, DIGESTION. 250 quarters of an inch lower down. Under such circumstances fat passes through the small intestine unaltered, and the lacteals are filled with limpid chyle totally devoid of the white colour. The influence of the pancreatic fluid in the formation of the white chyle by its action upon fatty food is beautifully illus- trated by Bernard in a very simple experiment upon the rabbit which we have repeated with results precisely corresponding with those obtained by him. The rabbit is selected for this observation, ; because while the choledoch duct opens into the duodenum just , below the pylorus, the pancreatic duct opens as much as sixteen or seventeen inches lower down, so that all that length of intestine \ receives bile only. A small quantity of melted hog’s lard was in- jected into the stomach, (the animal having been kept without ' food for twenty-four hours previously) after which it was let to eat freely of parsley and carrots. After five or six hours it was killed. Between the openings of the two ducts the lacteals con- tained a clear limpid fluid ; but below the pancreatic duct the lac- teals were turgid with a rich white creamy chyle. In confirmation of these results of experiments it may be stated that patients labouring under disease of the pancreas invariably suffer from extreme emaciation, and many cases are recorded in which fat appeared unaltered in the stools—apparently in consequence of malignant disease of the pancreas. Oases of this kind are recorded by Elllotson, Bright, and others. From the preceding facts so well collected by the Industry and ^ acuteness of Bernard, it seems to us that we must conclude that . the principal function of the pancreatic fluid is to digest fatty ! matters, that is, to reduce them to a state which will admit of . * their ready absorption by the lacteals. This power is mainly due to the organic principle resembling albumen which is held in solution in the pancreatic fluid. An objection to this view arises from the fact that some animals have no fat, or oily matter, in their food, as for example many vegetable feeders. This objection, however, may be thus met, that nearly all vegetable substances contain a certain proportion of oily matter, however small—and, moreover, the pancreatic fluid might serve to digest the fatty matters of the bile which by absorption into the lacteals are readily carried to the lungs for combustion. But that the digestion of fat food is not the only office of the pancreas in digestion is sulficiently proved by the experiments of Bouchardat and Sandras already referred to, which point out the important share it takes in the digestion of amylaceous matters.