439 / CHAP. XXXI.] THEORY OE VOCALIZATION. be regarded as a stringed instrument, in whieh the sound depends upon the vibrations produeed by the movement of the stretehed strings, as a wind instrument in which sounds result from the vibration of the column of air within them, or as a reed instru- ment which developes sound by the vibration of one or more highly vibratile tongues acted on by a current of air passing over them. I3y the mechanism we have described, the vocal cords are placed in a position favourable for the production of sounds by their vibration, and the pitch of the sounds so produced modified. Professor Willis showed, that in an ordinary respiration the aperture of the glottis assumed a V form; and its lips are inclined fi’om each other : the apex of the V is situated towards the thyroid cartilage. When sound is to be produced, the lips of the glottis are made to approximate each other, and their inner edges become parallel. If now a current of air he forced through the chink, a sound is produced, the pitch of which depends entirely upon the tension of the vocal cords. De Kempelin says, that in the produc- tion of sounds, the lips of the glottis are approximated to the one- tenth or one-twelfth of an inch. The chords in v'^ocalization vibrate throughout their whole length; but no voice-sounds can be pro- duced by the passage of air through the posterior portion of the chink of the glottis between the arytenoid cartilages. Even when the chords are in contact, sound is produced by the forcible trans- mission of air. When the vocal chords are rendered tense, a high note is pro- duced ; -when they are relaxed, a note of low pitch results, A greater number of sonorous vibrations takes place in the former case than in the latter. It has been shown, that in the case of stretched strings, the pitch of the note varies in direct proportion to the amount of tension, according to the law that the number of vibrations produced by strings of similar length varies in pro- portion to the square-roots of the forces which stretch them. A string stretched by a certain force will produce twice the number of vibrations, if the force be increased four times; or, if a stretched string is caused to vibrate, and so to produce a certain note, if four times the force be employed, we obtain a note which is the octave of the first, requiring for its production twice the number of vibrations. These results, however, cannot be obtained upon the larynx, so that, as Muller has proved, the production of vocal sounds in this organ cannot be compared with those produced in a stretched string. The distinguished Fkysician^ M. Savart, was among the most