510 SPLEEN. [chap. XXXV. about the 300tli of an incli in lengtii, and about tbe ^th of an inch broad in the centre, which is their widest part. They contain a distinct elongated or oval nucleus. The nucleus is often found bulging upon one side of the fibre cell, and in some instances appeai-s only connected with it by a stalk. The cell is often much curved, and sometimes bent upon itself, an appearance arising from Its mode of development, which takes place, according to the obser- vations of Mr. H. Gray, by the solution of the cell wall at a point opposite the nucleus, which latter remains, and the cell wall itself forms the fibres which are prolonged from either side of it. Fig. 24G. lu scvcral of tlic mam- malia, both in the capsule and also in the trabeculae, a number of muscular fibre cells, with a distinctly oval elongated nucleus, are pre- sent. The fibre may be en- tirely composed of these cells. They are not present in the human spleen, but may be readily demonstrated in that of the sheep. The spleen possesses very slight power of contractility, and in experiments upon the spleen of the ox and sheep, jNIr. Gray was unable to ob- tain marked contractions by the application of a strong galvanic current. Spleen Pulp.—The spleen pulp, or parenchyma, the proper tissue of the spleen, is composed of peculiar colourless cells, containing masses of colouring matter, free coloured pai’ticles, granular matter, and blood corpuscles. The colourless portion of the spleen pulp is composed principally of small circular cells, or nuclei, about the size of a blood corpuscle, and having a faintly granular appearance. These small nuclei vary somewhat in size, and are interspersed with a considerable quantity of granrdar matter, which is often collected around them. The spleen jmlp also contains a few nucleated vesicles, nearly 70*077^^^ an inch in diameter. Muscular fibre cells from the spleen of the sheep, mag- nified 400 diameters, a, a. Fibres more highly magnified. After Mr. Gray.