346 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxvih. TABLE OF THE AVERAGE FREQUENCY OF THE IIEARt’s ACTION AND OF THE I’ULSE AT DIFFERENT AGES. At birth . 140 Infaney 120 Childliood . 100 Youth 90 Adult age . . 75 Old age 70 Decrepitude . 75—80 In general the frequency of the heart’s action and of the pulse In the female exceeds that of the male, after the seventh year ; if the average pulse of the adult male be stated at 70, that of the adult female may be put down at 80. The heart’s action is seldom less frequent than 45 or 50 in health ; Heherden has counted it as low as 42, 30, and even 26 in healthy males ; and Fordyce counted it in one case 26 in an old man, and in another 20. In cases of chronic disease of the brain it falls very low. We have ourselves counted it as low as 16 in one of these cases for months together. According to the researches of Drs. Knox and Guy, the fre- quency of the heart’s action (and the consequent frequency of the pulse) varies at different periods of the day. It is most frequent in the morning, and becomes gradually slower as the day advances. The diminution is most marked at night.* Posture exercises a remarkable influence on the frequency of the heart’s action. The law is that the frequency is the greatest in the erect position, next to that, in the sitting, and least in the hori- zontal posture. The following table has been framed by Dr. Guy from the results of sixty-six observations in the male, and twenty- seven in the female. TABLE OF THE FREQUENCY OF THE HEARt’s ACTION IN DIFFERENT POSTURES. Standing. Sitting. Lying. Differences. Males . 81 71 66 10, 5, 15 Females .91 84 80 7, 4, 11 These observations denote the curious fact that posture influences the frequency of the pulse less in the female than in the male, and from another series of more numerous observations. Dr. Guy deduces that the effect of change of posture on the frequency of the heart’s action in the male, is more than twice as great as in the female. * See Graves’s Dub. Ho.sp. Rep., vol. vi., and Dr. Guy’s art. Pulse, Cyclo. Anat. and Pliys.