547 CHAP. XXXVll.] DEVELOPMENT OF SPERMATOZOA. Fig. 262. The charactera of the spermatozoa vary much in different animals ; thus in the rat and mouse the head or body is un- Fig, 2gi. symmetrical and curved. In the squiri’el, the anterior extremity of the head is rounded, and wider than any other portion. In birds, the head is usually attenuated. In reptiles and fishes, the characters of the spermatozoa vary much in different examples. Among the invertebrata, those of the Crustacea are very remarkable in form. For a detailed account of the characters of the sperma- tozoa in different classes of animals, we must refer the reader to the excellent ar- ticle, Semen, in the Cyclopsedia of Anatomy tacus^fSviamS)°^ crawfish (as- and Physiology, by Wagner and Leuckart. Development of the Spermatozoa.—The development of the sperma- tozoa has been carefully investigated by Wagner, Siehold, and Kolliker. The different stages are traced more readily in many of the lower animals than in man. In the rabbit, Kolliker has been able to observe the single spermatic filament within the cell attached to the wall and making two or three turns in a spiral form. It may now be looked upon as almost certain, that each spermatozoon is developed, not from any change of the cell, but from the contents within the cell itself. These cells are themselves developed in the interior of a larger or mother cell, into the interior of which the spermatozoa es- cape by the rupture of their developing cells, and are at last set free by the destruction of the wall of the parent cell itself. Professor Kolliker, in his latest investigations, has arrived at the conclu- «n=ici. b. Each nucleus of o ’ the parent cell containing a spermatic sion that the spermatozoa are not developed fi'ament. c. Nucleus with spermatic ■V V filament, d. A parent cell with a in the nuclei of the cells, but from them The nucleus becomes of an oval form, and opment one extremity is elongated to form the filamentary tail, while its principal part constitutes the body of the filament. In this case, they aiTange themselves parallel to each other, the heads being in one direction and the tails in the opposite. Movements of the Spermatic Filaments.—When the spermatozoa have escaped, their active movements commence; and by the con- tinual vibrations of the filamentous tail, they are propelled forw^ards, according to Henle, at the rate of one inch in seven minutes and a Development of the speiTuatic fila- ments of the rabbit, a. Parent cell, number of spermatic filaments set free from the nuclei or cells of devel-