90 [chap. XVIII. INNERVATION. Savart showed by the following simple experiment that the latter cause was obviously the most effective. He prepared a second conical tube open at both ends, and having placed the narrow end of this tube very near the paper on the former one, hut not in contact with ; he found that vibrations were excited on the paper by bringing the vibrating glass near to the wide end of the second tube, but that ! these vibrations were not nearly so extensive as when the glass was S ■ brought near to the wide extremity of the tube with which the paper was connected. Hence Savart inferred that the external ear and meatus were parts ; adapted to enter into vibrations in unison with those of the air, or of any liquid or solid vibrating medium which might he brought in contact with the auricle; and he suggested that the latter part, in the human subject, by the variety of direetion and inclination of ‘ its surfaces, eould always present to the air a certain number of .• parts whose direction is at right angles with that of the molecular i movement of that fluid, and therefore in the most favourable cir- i ..... t cumstances for entering into vibration with it. ?; We get a general notion of the value of the external part of ; the auditory apparatus in collecting and directing the sonorous i undulations, from the assistance often derived in hearing by placing the hand behind the external ear, so as to increase its concavity; and by the dulness of hearing, which it is said follows the loss of the auricle. Kerner states that the loss of the auricle is fol- lowed by the greatest dulness of hearing in those animals in which the osseous meatus is wanting. In a cat from which the right ear was cut away close to the skull, after the wound had healed without any stoppage of the meatus, there was a remarkable disposition always to keep the head turned so as to he ready to receive sounds with the left ear, and this continued even after the left tympanic membrane was perforated, the right remaining whole; and when the left ear was stopped, (although the right tympanic membrane was sound, and the only injury on that side was the removal of the auricle) a total deafness was manifested except to the loudest and clearest sounds. 1 The Tympanum and its Contents.—We have already stated that Savart had demonstrated experimentally upon the membrana tym- pani itself, that that membrane can be thrown into vibrations by undulations of the air excited by a sonorous body. In a second experiment, the cavity of the tympanum was opened, so as to ex- pose the ossicles of the ear and their muscles ; and it was observed that when the internus mallei muscle acted and rendered the mem-