507 CHAP. XXXIV.] EPITHELIUM OF BLADDER. nectecl to the muscular tissue by the iuterveution of much loose areolar tissue, iu which the yellow elemeut is abuuclaut, except over the trigoue, where it adheres very firmly, by which a perfectly smooth surface is produced iu this situation. About the neck of the bladder are a number of small glands, each consisting of a few secreting follicles, opening into a short wide duct. These are lined with columnar epithelium, and secrete a perfectly clear transparent mucus. Epithelium.—The epithelium of the bladder varies much in its character in different situations. Near the orifices of the ureters it is almost entirely of a columnar form; but over the fundus, generally, it consists of large circular and oval cells, with a distinct nucleus. These are of very large size, and present a very charac- teristic appearance. Kolliker describes many of these large cells as lying upon the surface of columnar epithelium, their deep aspect being hollowed out to receive the summits of the latter cells. Towards the urethra, the columnar epithelium again pre- dominates. Epithelium from various parts of the mucous mem- brane above referred to is often found in the urine; and the characters are often so distinctive as to enable the observer to infer with accuracy the locality from whence it was derived, a point which is occasionally of some value in diagnosis. We shall consider the anatomy of the urethra, and other organs connected with the bladder, in the chapter on the Organs of Generation, The student should consult the following works and monographs for more detailed information upon the subjects treated of in the present chapter : M. Malpighi, de Renibus, 1669 ; Schumlansky, de Structura renum, 1788; W. Bowman, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842; Goodsir, in the Monthly Journal of Medical Science, 1842; Dr. Johnson’s article, “ Een,” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, and his work on Diseases of the Kidney ; and the treatises on Physiology and Minute Anatomy before re- ferred to. Upon the Urine. — Dr. Golding Bird, on Urinary Deposits ; Dr. Bence Jones’ Lectures upon Animal Chemistry; Lehmann’s Handbuch der Phy- siologischeu Chemie, Leipzig, 1854; translated by the Cavendish Society. J. E. Bowman, Medical Chemisty. Beale, on the Microscope, and its applica- tion to Clinical Medicine, Chapter XIV. '1 i, I.