518 SUPRxV-RENAL CAPSULES. [chap. XXXV. a fibrous appearance. The medullary substance is of a paler color, unless the vessels are injected with blood, and of a somewhat softer consistence. If the gland be not perfectly fresh, a cavity is usually seen in the interior, which results from the breaking down of the medullary tissue. The cortex is divided into a series of compartments or tubes by septa of fibrous tissue prolonged inwards from the capsule of the organ. These spaces extend through the entire thickness of this part of the body, and pass from the surface vertically inwards. They contain numerous oval or spherical bodies, varying consider- ably in length. These have been looked upon by Ecker as gland- follicles, but Kolliker considers them merely as aggregations of cells not invested with a distinct membrane, or enclosed in a larger cell. They are separated from each other by meshes of areolar tissue, the fibres of which often appear to be connected with the surface of the mass. In the outer part of the cortex separate cells, filled with pigment granules, are usually to be met with; but in the inner portion, round or oval vesicles are found, which are filled with oil globules. The medullary substance is composed of a network of areolar tissue which is prolonged from the cortex, and contains numerous vessels, in the meshes of which are found many cells, some of which contain fat or granular pigmentary matter. A distinct nucleus and commonly a nucleolus are seen, and often the cells have many an- gular processes, or are much branched; indeed, these cells present an appearance much resembling that of the neiwe vesicle. Besides the fibrous, vascular, and cellular, elements just described, the medullary portion of the supra-renal bodies is A^ery largely supplied with nerve fibres derived from the semilunar ganglia and solar plexus, with a few fibres also fi’om the pneumo-gastric, and from the phrenic. The nerves appear to perforate the cortical substance in several places, pass through this, and enter the me- dullary, where they form a plexus amongst the fibrous tissue. The mode of their termination has not been made out. The function of these peculiar bodies is entirely unknown. From the great dissimilarity of structure observed in the cortical and medullary portions of the organs, it is probable that each per- forms a distinct and separate office. In the present state of our knoAvledge Ave may continue to classify the former Avith the ductless or vascular glands, but, from the existence of cells much resembling nerve vesicles, and an abundant plexus of nerve fibres, it ap- pears more correct to regard the latter as connected in some man-