CHAP, xxviii.] THE CIRCULATION IN THE CAPILLARIES. 367 rate of movement of the blood as it flows from trunks to branches. But the careful measurements of Mr. Fernaby and of Mr. Paget, render it necessary to modify the general proposition to some extent. Mr. Fernaby* compared the areas of trunks and branches in the only sound way, namely, according to the geometrical law, that the areas of circles are as the squares of their diameters. Esti- mated thus, he found that the excess of the combined areas of the branches over those of the trunks was very trifling, and, in some instances, scarcely appreciable; and Mr. Paget, while con- firming the general statement of Mr. Fernaby, discovex’ed a re- markable exception in the case of the common iliac arteries, whose combined areas were distinctly less than that of the aorta above the point of bifurcation—and the combined areas of the external and internal iliacs were less than that of the common—but those of the branches of the external iliac exceeded notably the area of their parent trunk.-j* Volkmann states that in general the arterial capacity is increased in area by the division into branches. But he instances a remarkable exception in the case of the external and internal carotids of the horse, whose combined areas are smaller than that of the trunk. He remarks, likewise, that the first divisions of the larger arterial trunks (aorta and pulmonary artery) experienced very little increase of area; but that, as subdivision goes on, the increase becomes much more marked. And it is especially so near the capillaries, where the combined areas of some small branches nearly double that of their parent. This is particularly interesting, as denoting the coincidence of physical conformation with the result of direct observation, on the velocity of the blood, which shew that it is near the capillaries, that the most decided diminution takes place in the rate of the blood’s motion. Of the Circulation in the Capillaries.—The manner in which the blood flows through the capillaries is easily made the subject of direct observation by examining the transparent parts of certain animals, as the wings of bats, the mesenteries of small animals as the mouse, the web of the frog’s foot, the lung of the frog, or of the newt, &c. In watching the circulation in the web of the frog’s foot under the microscope, with a magnifying power of about 200 diameters, the following points will attract observation: first, it will be seen that the stream is continuous, that is, it rushes with a considerable * Loiul. Med. Giiz. 1839. t Lend. Med.Gaz. 1842.