[chap. xlii. 610 DEVELOPMENT inches in length. Eaeh body was eomposed of numerous trans- vei’se eoeca, passing from the Fallopian tube towards the corre- sponding ovary. The kidneys are developed independently of the Wolffian bodies, and are situated on the inner side of the ducts of these temporary organs. As the latter gradually diminish in size, the development of the former advanees. Supra-renal Capsules.—The investigations of Mr. Gray upon the development of the supra-renal capsules in the ehiek, have proved that these bodies are not to be recognised before the end of the 7th day, when an Hi-defined granular mass, of a reddish eolor, makes its appearanee between the aorta and upper and inner sides of the Wolffian bodies. It seems to have no connexion with the thyroid or thymus, as Professor Goodsir described. Its minute strueture resembled that of the spleen about the fifth day of in- eubation. By the 8th day, vesicles eould he distinguished, and by the fom’teenth day were found to contain oil glohid.es, hut no nuelei could be deteeted in their interior. The capsules were of large size, and of a yellow color by the 18th day, and now the division into cortical and medullary portions was quite distinet. The supra-renal eapsules are developed from two separate masses of blastema, situated between the aorta and upper and inner extremities of the Wolffian bodies. They have no eonnexion with the latter, or with each other, and although in their minute struc- ture they resemble the spleen, they andve at their maximum of development before that organ. Organs of Generation.—The sexual organs are developed at a later period than other glands. They are formed from masses of blastema situated upon the inner side of the upper and free part of the ducts of the Wolffian bodies. The ovaries and testicles are developed independently of the Wolffian bodies. At an early period of development the glands in both sexes have very similar eharaeters, and it is not possible to say whether the organ is ulti- mately to become converted into a testiele, or whether it is to retain its primitive characters, whieh agree with those of the ovary. According to the observations of Valentin, the ovary of mammalian animals is developed in the form of tubes, in whieh the Graafian foUicles are produced. The excretory ducts in the lowest vertebrata are two in number, and open into the eloaea, an arrangement which is persistent in many fishes, but in the liigher elasses they are united, and form a single eanal, the arrangement of which has been earefully investi-