5 THE OLFACTOllY IIEGION. CHAP. XVI.] Fig 104. We now come to the proper seat of the sense of smell, a com- paratively limited district of the nasal organ, to which we shall apply the term, olfactory region. As this olfactory region has not hitherto been distinguished, nor its character understood, we shall describe it somewhat minutely. This, as well as other parts, can be best examined in animals, becau.se they can be procured fresh and in a state of health. The mucous membrane so soon loses many of its most interesting features, especially where death has followed on chronic disease, that the human subject is not the most favourable for the investigation of its physiological anatomy, and can only be advantageously inspected after the lower animals have furnished the general clue. This remark is well illustrated by the present instance. The olfactory region is situated at the top of the nose, immedi- ately below the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, through which the olfactory nerves reach the membrane; and it extends about one third, or one fourth, downwards on the septum, and over the superior and part of the middle spongy bones of the ethmoid. Its limits are dis- tinctly marked by a more or less rich sienna-brown tint of the epithelium, and by a remarkable increase in the thickness of this structure, compared with the ciliated region below; so much so, soft pulp membrane, very different from the delicate, very transparent film of the sinuses and lower spongy bones. The epithelium indeed here quite alters its character, being no longer ciliated, ,, . , ® ® ^ ’ Vertical aection of the olfactory reg:ion of the but C0mp0.sed of an aOfQfree'ation of of the Rabbit:—a. surface of the epithc- ^ hum. b. Layer coloured by pigment, c. Line superposed nucleated particles, of basement membrane, d. Nucleated tissue ^ ^ ’ seen below, e. Olfactory nervous filament pretty uniform appearance through- branching.—Magn. 250 diam. out; except that, in many instances, a layer of those lying deepest, or almost deepest, is of a darker colour than the rest, from the brown pigment contained in the cells (fig. 104, d). These epi- thelial particles, then, are not ciliated; and they form a thick, soft, and pulpy stratum, resting on the basement membrane. The deepest layer often adheres after the others are washed away. On looking on the under surface of this epithelium, when it has been that it forms an opaque upon the surface of the n; 1 -ft f -I