165 THE TONGUE. CHAP. XXIII.] ward, downward, backward, forward, and lateral motions, by means of the muscles of mastication acting on the bone in which they are ‘ implanted. By these motions of the lower teeth upon the upper, the food is comminuted. A more detailed description of some of the organs of mastication may now be given. The cheeks form the outer wall of that part of the mouth which lies outside the teeth. Like the lips, with which they are continuous, they consist of a muscular stratum interposed between the skin and the mucous membrane of the mouth. They admit of distension and compression, and form pouches which receive portions of food escaping outside the teeth during mastication, and from which it is continually returned towards the inner cavity, to be submitted to the grinding ; action. This use of the cheek is well exemplified in cases of paralysis of the buccinator muscle, in which the food collects in the flaccid bag to which this part is then reduced. The tongue is an important agent of mastication, and has been i already spoken of as the seat of taste and of an exquisite sense of j touch. By virtue of the latter it receives accurate impressions of the 1 tangible qualities of the food, and of its situation in the mouth ; and l| by its great mobility it is constituted the main instrument by which i the food is moved within the moiith, so as to be effectually brought within the range of the masticating organs. The tongue rests upon f the hyoid arch, to which, and to the concavity of the lower jaw, it t is fixed by the muscles. It lies within the curve of the teeth, and is ' covered on its free surface with mucous membrane, which has been before described. The muscular fibres which compose this organ in- tersect one another in an intricate manner in its interior, but they j all appear to arrive ultimately at its dorsal surface, and to be there j implanted, in small sets or bundles, into the submucous stratum of j dense areolar tissue, a good deal of fat being disseminated through- i out, but especially in the intervals between the muscular bundles at their insertion. We refer to works on descriptive anatomy for the anatomy of these muscles. By their action the upper surface of the tongue may be made convex or hollow, or may be pressed forcibly against the roof of the mouth ; the tip of the organ may be protruded or moved in any direction, and to any recess within the cavity where food might lodge, and the whole organ may be lowered or i drawn back. These several actions are so performed as to exem- plify, in the most perfect manner, the concert which has been already mentioned to occur between many muscular and sensitive parts. Of the Teeth.—These, in the widest acceptation of the term, and 111 reference to the whole animal scale, are hard organs situated on