CHAP. XXIV.J 201 GASTRIC JUICE. horse, calf, and dog. And he announced, as the result of his analyses, “ that free or at least unsaturated muriatic acid in no I small quantity exists in the stomach of those animals during the h digestive process.” And in later publications Dr. Prout lias reas- serted this statement. The weight which is so deservedly attached to the opinion of this eminent philosopher has, no doubt, had great influence in deter- mining the prevalent opinion in this country in favour of the view which attributes the acidity of the gastric fluid to the existence of free muriatic acid in it. The source of the acid, it is generally believed, is the chloride of sodium of the blood, which at the mu- cous membrane of the stomach contributes muriatic or hydrochloric acid to the gastric juice, leaving free soda to be carried to the liver by the veins of the stomach. Experiment, however, shows that muriatic acid has little or no solvent power on the food, and that the reducing action of the gastric fluid cannot be attributed to it alone. Albumen or meat sub- jected to the action of water acidulated with muriatic acid, and kept for some hours at a temperature of 100°, undergoes no change of any importance: neither substance exhibits any softening or tendency to putrefaction or decomposition of any kind. Similar experiments with acetic acid or with phosphoric acid lead to like results. It is plain, then, that, the solvent powers of the gastric fluid are not due simply to the acid which it contains, whatever that may be, and that we must look for some other ingredient in it, which, either alone or in combination with acid, can exercise these powers. The clue to this was given by Eberle, who adopted the expedient of adding to water acidulated with muriatic acid a small piece of the mucous membrane of the stomach. By this means he succeeded in obtaining a digestive fluid which reduced animal substances as perfectly as the gastric juice itself. This discovery was of the last importance to the formation of a correct theory of stomach digestion, and to exact views of the nature of the gastric juice. It was soon followed up by numerous experiments in Germany by Schwann and Muller, and by Purkinje and Pappenheim. The general result of these experiments was, that the addition of a portion of gastric mucous membrane from tlie true secreting stomach to an acidulated water produced a perfect digestive fluid ; but that no other mucous membrane would answer this purpose. The following changes take place on macerating meat and albumen in a digestive fluidThe meat is broken A down to a complete jnilp ; and, if the digestion have been con-