612 CHAPTER XLIII. OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE FCETUS. — OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE CHORION. OF THE AMNION. — LIQUOR AMNII. OF THE UMBI- LICAL VESICLE. OF THE ALLANTOIS. — ALLANTOIC FLUID. UM- BILICAL CORD.—BIRTH. Formation of the Placenta. — The early development of the chorion has been described in a former page. At first, the villi are composed entirely of cells, invested on their external surface with a very delicate structureless membrane; but after the vessels, con- ducted by the allantois, have reached its inner surface, vascular loops arc prolonged into them. Bischoff considers that in the human ovum, and in that of the bitch, which are destitute of an albuminous covering, the tufts are formed directly from the zona pellucida alone. In two orders of mammalia, the marsupicdia and the monotremata, there is no connection between the vascular system of the mother and that of the foetus, which is nourished from a very early period with milk. The relation between the blood of the foetus and that of the mother is nearly the same in all placental mammalia. The wall of the maternal ves- sels,—a layer composed of cells from the modified mucous membrane of the uterus,—and another cellular layer belonging to the foetal tuft, always separate them ; but in the greater number of mammalia, the foetal tufts come into relation with the capillary vessels of the mother ; while in man they are in contact with the walls of a large cavity containing blood. The mode of arrangement of the tufts, or, in other words, the form which the placenta assumes, is very different in the various mammaUa. Sometimes the whole chorion is covered with villi, as in the pachydermata (hog, ele- phant, etc.); sometimes these form little collections or cotyledons, as in the greater number of ruminants (sheep, ox, goat, etc.); sometimes they form a band encircling the central portion of the chorion, as in the carnivora ; and in some instances they are confined to one single part, forming a single pla- centa, as in the rodentia, and also in the human subject (vide figs. 280, 292). The beautiful branched and highly complicated conical foetal villi of tne ruminant dip into deep recesses in the maternal cotyledons, upon the walls of