31 CHAP. XVII.] OF THE VITREOUS BODY, Fig. 119. The yellow spot of the Re- tina occupying the axis of the eye; and the entrance of the optic nerve, with the arteria centralis retinae on the inner side of the axis.— After Soemmerring. iiioiintl, or projection of the retiiin towards the vitreous humor, with a minute aperture in the summit. On removing the sclerotic and choroid Avith the utmost care, the interior of the globe can be seen from the outside, through this hole; and yet the membrane of Jacoh appears to be continued over it. On examining the structure of the retina about the yellow spot, from with- in, the fibrous expansion of the optic nerve (though stretching in every other direction to a much greater distance) cannot be traced quite up to the spot itself. Nucleated cells occupy the elongated meshes of the fibrous plexus already de- scribed, until at length the fibres disappear, and the closely set cells seem to cover the whole surface of the spot. The gradual subsidence of the fibres in the interstices of the cells we have distinctly seen. As for the colouring matter, it is not in grains of pigment, but stains the several tissues, and soon disappears in water. The use of the yellow spot is unknown. It is interesting to observe in connexion with the perfection of vision over the spot, that the principal branches of the artery and vein of the retina, above and below, curve round it at a distance, going, as it were, out of their course to avoid it, so that only capillary vessels are found in its immediate vicinity. It now remains to describe the transparent media which occupy the interior of the ball of the eye. The vitreous body, lying in the concavity of the retina, and filling all but about the anterior fifth of the globe, has, when entire, the con- sistence of soft jelly. It consists of an exceedingly fine and close, but perfectly transparent web of fibrous tissue, the meshes of which are exceedingly small, and contain an aqueous fluid. If the tissue be cut into, the water will slowly drain off, showing the continuity of the cells with one another ; and the manner in which they are constructed by interlacing fibres may be very plainly seen with a high power near the ciliary processes, in the vicinity of which these fibres are particularly strong. The whole vitreous body is bounded by or contained in an envelope of extremely thin homogeneous membrane, having corpuscles or cell-nuclei on its inner surface, where the fibrous tissue is attached (fig. 117, h, Ji). It would perhaps he convenient to restrict the term hyaloid membrane to this envelope. Where the retina extends, that is, as far as the ciliary body, the hyaloid membrane is in contact with its inner surface, and united