179 CHAP, xxiii.] FIRST AND SECOND DENTITION. part ia tlie tlevelopement and subsequent nutrition of the organs. The nerves of tlie teeth are derived from the second and third divi- sions of the fifth pair. Of the First and Second Dentitions.—As teeth are required before the jaw-bones have attained their full growth, and yet are organs in- capable of enlarging passM with those bones, the young child is provided with a temporary set., commonly known as the milk-teeth, adapted to the size and form of its alveolar arches, and to the nature of the food consumed in early life. This set consists of twenty teeth—four incisors, two canines, and four molars in each jaw. They are formed in the manner already described: the papillae of the an- terior molars appearing first—between the sixth and seventh week of fixtal existence, according to Mr. Goodsir—folloAved by those of the canines, incisors, and posterior molars, about the eighth, ninth, and tenth weeks respectively. About the fourth month all these are in their saccular stage, the mouths of the follicles having closed ; and there then appear behind the opercula, or lids of the follicles, small crescentic depressions of the mucous membrane, soon becoming closed cavities, called by the last-named author “ cavities of reserve., to fur- nish delicate mucous membrane for the future formation of the pulps and sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth” in each jaw. For two or three weeks longer the primitive dental groove behind the posterior milk molar is furnishing the papilla of the first permanent true molar ; and as this becomes gradually in its turn enclosed in a sac, a cavity of mucous membrane is said, by Mr. Goodsir, to be left unobliterated between its sac and the surface of the gum, which is the “cavity of reserve^^ from which the developement, first, of the second true molar, and, secondly, of the third or wisdom tooth, is afterwards to jmoceed. The temporary teeth usually make their way through the gum as fol- lows, those of the lower jaw taking precedence : the four central inci- sors about the seventh month after birth; the four lateral incisors from the seventh to the tenth; the anterior molars from the twelfth to the fourteenth ; the canines from the fourteenth to the twentieth ; and the posterior molars from the eighteenth to the thirty-sixth month. This whole period is called that of the first dentition, and is of great importance to the child, from the various S}nnpathetic morbid states which universal experience attributes to the process of cutting the teeth ; ” but it would be beside our purpose to dilate m this place on so interesting and prolific a theme. It may suffice to say, that, in our opinion, the practice of lancing the gum over an advancing tooth is often unnecessarily and prematurely resorted