603 CHAP. XLII.] OF HEART AND AORTIC ARCHES. About the sixtli day, a considerable alteration takes plaee in the circulation. By this time, the allantois forms a vesicle of consi- derable size, upon the surface of which numerous vessels are spread out. These are derived from two branches resulting from the division of the aorta after it has given off the mesenteric artery. The allantois rapidly increases in size; and as the albumen dimi- nishes in quantity, it becomes applied to the membrane of the egg- shell. Through the latter, and through the pores of the shell itself, the air passes to aerate the blood circulating in the vessels of the allantois, which may therefore be looked upon as the great respiratory surface of the chick previous to the formation of lungs. About the sixth or seventh day, the heart acquires its character- istic form; its cavities have approximated more closely, and become conjoined; the division between the auricles and ventricles can be seen distinctly. The bulb of the aorta appears to arise from both ventricles, immediately over the septum; and its division into two canals is complete on the seventh day. The pericardium is formed. Only two vascular arches arise on the left side of the aorta, but on Fit;. 284. 1,2,3. Heart of chick at the 45th, B-lth, and 85th hours of incubation. After Dr. Allen Thomson.— 4. Heart of a human embryo about the fifth week. After Von Baer.— a. Venous trunks, b. Auricle, c. Ventricle, d. Bulbus arteriosus, e. Two aortic arches, whic.h unite posteriorly to form the aorta, g. Auriculo-ventricular opening, h. Septum arising from the lowest part of the cavity of the ventricle, i. Inferior vena cava. the right there are three. The latter, and the two anterior arches, are the chief di^^sions of the aorta, and receive the blood transmit- ted from the left ventricle. On the seventh day, the two posterior arches receive blood only from the right ventricle, and become the pulmonary arteries. At present, however, all the arches terminate in the descending aorta. At this period, the course of the blood is as follows:—From the system of the embryo it is carried by the arteries vitellines, or oniphalo-mesenterices, to the net-work of vessels of the vascular area, whence it passes to the sinus terminalis, which bounds the latter, and which, even on the fourth day, is found to be full of blood. The blood is returned to the heart by two anterior and two pos- terior venous tninks, arranged in pairs on each side of the median 1111