CHAP. XXXIX.] MENSTRUATION. 561 enlarge, and an increased deposit of fat takes place over the sur- face of the body generally. The most important indication, how- ever, of puberty, or aptitude for procreation, in the human female, is the appearance of the catamenia. Nevertheless, instances have occurred in which the menstrual secretion was retarded for several years, or even in which it never appeared, although the suscepti- bility for procreation existed, and impregnation had taken place. Hence, although the presence of the menstrual discharge indi- cates that the period of puberty has arrived, its absence cannot he looked upon as a proof of the want of procreative power; while, in some instances, the catamenia may appear regularly without impregnation ever taking place, in consequence of certain abnormal conditions of the organs of generation. The period of puberty is more affected by the habits of the individual than by temperature, although the latter probably exerts some slight influ- ence. In Africa, menstruation is said to be common as early as the eighth or ninth year; but in colder climates, and in our own country, it seldom occurs before the thirteenth year, and usually not till the fifteenth or sixteenth year. StiU cases are on record in which the catamenia appeared in young children in this country; and their appearance was marked by enlargement of the breasts, and other changes indicative of puberty. In both sexes, the period of puberty is much influenced by the conditions under which the child is placed. Habits of indolence, luxury, and indulgence, tend to the early development of puberty; while, on the contrary, it occurs some years later in those who are inured to active employments, and who are placed under condi- tions favourable for promoting bodily vigour and mental activity. The catamenia occur at intervals of a month, and the discharge usually continues from three to six days. It ceases during preg- nancy and lactation, and, in most women, does not recur after the forty-fifth to the fiftieth year; but exceptions to these statements are met with from time to time. At each menstrual period, the mucous membrane of the uterus, and of the generative organs generally, becomes turgid, in conse- quence of an increased local determination of blood. The mucous surface of the uterus is covered by a sanguineous discharge, which escapes from the turgid vessels. Of the Menstrual Fluid.—The quantity of the menstrual secretion varies considerably, as also do its characters. In this country, from four to eight ounces are lost at each menstrual period, but sometimes the quantity is much greater. It is of a dark red colour