MECHANISM OF ABSORPTION. 287 CHAP. XXVI.] tweiity-fbui- inches, and alcohol by thirty-six to forty inches of mercury:” and hence it appears, as this eminent writer re- marks, that “ the power of a liquid to filter through an animal membrane bears no relation to the mobility of its particles ; for under a pressure which causes water, brine, or oil, to pass through, the far more mobile alcohol does not pass.” As pressure promotes the transmission of fluid through a mem- brane in one direction, so it tends to interrupt the passage of the other fluid in the opposite direction,—or to apply this to the blood- vessels of the living body, if they are distended by an over great quantity of blood, so that this fluid reacts upon their inner surface, as in the case of plethora, fluids enter them with difficulty from without—whereas, if their bulk is diminished by vensesection, absorption is comparatively rapid. This conclusion was established by Magendie on good grounds, and it has some illustrations and valuable applications in practice. Absorption as influenced by motion of the Fluid xoithin the Vessels. —Fluid may be raised out of a reservoir against gravity, by direct- ing a stream along a membranous canal, which lies immersed in the stagnant fluid. The outer fluid enters the canal by endosmose, and is carried away with a speed proportioned to the velocity of the current. If the fluid in motion is so compressed as to exert much lateral pressure on the wall of the tube, it will rather itself pass outwards, so as to mingle w'ith the fluid at I’est, than receive and carry oflf the latter. If the fluid in motion is also the more dense, or otherwise that towards which the extenial fluid would flow if both were stagnant, then its motion accelerates the endosmose by constantly bringing on fresh fluid of the original density, so that the first rate of transmission is maintained.^’" It will be scarcely necessary to state in detail the particular bearing which the preceding considerations have on the question of the mechanism of the absorbent process in the living body. It is, however, very evident that they leave us with little more than some * In a valuable paper by our friend. Dr. Robinson, of Newcastle (Med Gazette, 1844) many experiments and arguments are given to show that absorption goes on ratlfer on the venous side of the capillary network, and in the small veins, than on the arterial side. He considers the motion of the blood to be an influential cause of absorption, by diminishing its pressure outwards on the vascular walls, and thu.s allowing the external pressure (that of the atmosphere and of the surroundino- tissues) to predominate. There can hardly be a doubt that the rapidity of absorption would be influenced by the rate of movement of the blood as well as by other mechanical conditions.