32 [chap. XVII. INNERVATION. to it by an extremely tvcinspcirBnt laycT of cells, which often remain invisible until swollen by the imbibition of water (fig. 117, c, c'). These cells serve merely as a bond of connexion between the hyaloid membrane and the fibrous lamina of the retina. Between the anterior border of the retina and the border of the lens, the vitreous body is accurately adapted to the ciliary striae and processes of the choroid, and presents a series of plaitings precisely similar to those of the processes themselves, and termed the ciliary processes of the vitre- ous body. Collectively they form a circle called zonula ciliaris, or, zone of Zinn. The two structures are in a manner dovetailed into one another; and so intimate is their union, that, when the processes of the choroid are drawn away from the vitreous body, some of their pigment is generally left adhering to the processes of the latter. In the centre of its anterior surface, in a space nearly corresponding to the area between the points of the ciliary processes, the vitreous from the lens. Thus the rim of the lens is not exactly at the surface of the vitreous body, but buried slightly within it, and overlapped a little by it. All round the rim of the lens, there is a cavity in the vitreous body, extending under the circle of the ciliary processes of the latter, and termed the canal of Petit (fig. 120, and fig. 116*). The hyaloid membrane constituting these ciliary processes forms the anterior wall of this canal, which, by its adhesion to the ciliary processes of the choroid, is subject to be drawn forwards by the contraction of the ciliary muscle already described (p. 27). AVhen this occurs, the lens also is advanced, in consequence of the union of this anterior wall of the hyaloid to its anterior surface near the rim. Were the canal of Petit wanting, the ciliary muscle I Fig. 120. body is hollowed out to receive the crys- talline lens. This latter is contained in, or bounded by, a perfectly closed capsule, composed of a tissue exactly resembling the elastic lamina of the cornea already de- scribed. To the whole posterior surface of this capsule, and to a very narrow circum- ferential portion of its anterior surface, the fibrous structure of the vitreous body is finnly attached; the hyaloid mem- brane itself not passing behind the lens, Pe tit.—After Arnold. Pe tit.—After Arnold. little in front of its rim, after crossing the interval separating the tips of the ciliary processes of the choroid