446 VOICE. [PHAP. XXXI, contracted to a minimum^ and the latter increased to its largest size. The sounds just enumerated are the vowel sounds of continental languages^ and they can aU be prolonged for a time limited only by the passage of the air through the vocal apparatus. The Eng- lish i may he looked upon as a diphthongal sound, and like the true diphthongs cannot he prolonged like a continued vowel sound. Tlie diphthongal sounds appear to he produeed hy causing one par- tieular vowel sound to pass into another with a considerable degree of rapidity—thus, ou is formed hy the transition of the a in far to the 00 in cool. In the pronuneiation of eonsonants, the soft palate, the tongue and lips more especially, take part; and in order to produce many of the sounds, it is neeessary that the air should he forced through the passages suddenly, and often with a considerable degree of force, while others can he produced as eontinuous sounds like the vowels; hence the divisions into explosive and continuous consonants. The former elass includes the b, p, d, t, g, k,—the latter, the V, f, 1, m, n, r, the sibilant consonants s and z, and the Greek 6 [theta) th, which like sh, is a perfectly simple sound, and might he represented hy one letter. The manner in whieh these sounds are produced hy the alteration of the position of the organs con- cerned in the production of speech can he studied by every one in his o'wn person; but for a full description of the position of the several parts eoncerned in producing them, the reader is re- ferred to the works enumerated at the end of the present chapter.* * For information upon subjects treated of in the present chapter, the stu- dent is referred to the following works:—Dissertatio de Loquela, 1700; fiev. Mr. Willis in the “Cambridge Philosophical Transactions,” voL iv., 1832; Lauth, “Mem, de I’Academie Eoyale de M6decine,” 1835 ; J. Muller, “Elements of Physiology,” translated byDr.Baly; Articles, “Larynx” and “Voice,” by Mr. Bishop, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology.