174 DIGESTION. CHAP. XXIII. the teeth, and which there form a plexus in the substance of a firm elastic tissue, which is the connecting medium between the socket and the root, and is usually regarded as a periosteum. Thus the surface of the root is supplied with blood, and the tooth is united to the jaw in a way which allows it to yield very slightly under pressure. The alveolar arch is covered on the outside by the gums^ a dense, elastic, peculiar tissue, adapted to sustain without injury the forcible contact of the hard portions of food, to which its vicinity to the grinding organs must expose it. The developement of the teeth may be described under two heads : first, that of the elementary tissues of the tooth, the dentine, the enamel, and the true bone ; secondly, that of the dental series, which will include the order of appearance of the teeth of the tem- porary and permanent sets. According to the most recent investigations of Arnold and Good- sir, the teeth are developements from the mucous membrane covering the dental arches, and not from the maxillary bones. They, there- fore, would seem to correspond with the tegumentary appendages of animals, such as horns, nails, feathers, and not to be a portion of the true osseous system, or endo-skeleton of the vertebrata. The bills of birds are an obvious intermediate condition of the integument of the jaws. The teeth may be regarded as formed in the following manner. The first indication observed (according to the excellent observa- tions of Mr. Goodsir, which we have in most particulars had an opportunity of verifying) is a groove at the border of the palate in the situation of the future teeth, which he terms the primitive dental groove, and which is apparent in the foetus of six weeks old. At the bottom of this groove there appear certain fine pa- pillae, which increase in size, and gradually assume the shape of the crowns of the future teeth, having the edge and cusps which are eventually to distinguish them. As the papillae grow, the groove is converted into follicles for their reception, by the growth of septa between its borders, that is, between the outer and inner alveolar processes, which soon begin to be ossified within the walls of the groove. Thus the follicles become alveoli lined by the periosteum of the jaw, such as it is at this early period, and lodging a process of the mucous membrane of the gum, from the bottom of which springs up the papilla or germ of the future tooth. The summit of the papilla is at first visible in the mouth of the follicle ; but ere it has assumed the figure of the tooth, the margins of the orifice enlarge