178 DIGESTION. [chap. xxm. that the pulp is converted into the columns, as the dentinal pulp is converted into dentine, because the anatomical characters of the pulp are so dissimilar from those of the columns. When first calcified, the enamel rods are loosely aggregated, and easily separate from one another under pressure; but they gradually become so firmly consolidated by the advance of the calcifying process in their interstices, as to make the finished enamel the most hard and indestructible of all the products of organization. The developement of the layer containing the ordinary lacunse of bone, and which, in the human teeth, covers the fang, and is con- tinued a little way within the cavity of the root, does not seem to have been so accurately studied as that of the dentine and enamel. But this is the less important, as it is in all probability essentially similar to that of bone, which is now pretty well understood. There can be little doubt that a membranous matrix, probably like that of the cranial bones, is laid down as the fang is developed, in which the usual steps of ossification proceed, the lacunse and their cana- liculi being, in our opinion, formed from the corpuscles of the tem- porary matrix. Mr. Nasmyth has described a prolongation of this layer over the entire crown of the tooth, outside the enamel. To understand the formation of such a layer, we must suppose it laid down in a matrix continuous with that which invests the fang, passing over the crown between the enamel-pulp and the wall of the sac inclusive of the lids. The crusta petrosa in the fissures be- tween the enamel of the compound grinders of herbivorous animals must certainly be formed in this way. When the ossification of the dentine is so far advanced that the tooth can sustain with impunity the pressure to which it is destined, and wdien the enamel is densely calcified, the eruptive stage occurs, in which the tooth makes its way through the gum. This is due to the same laws of developement which govern the form and position of other organs. The gum over the sac is absorbed, and the crowm of the tooth is forced upwards against it, chiefly by the increasing size of the fang below. It may be stated, once for all, that, as the developement of the teeth proceeds, so does that of the alveoli, or the bony sockets in which they are lodged; and that, by the time the teeth break through the gums, their walls are sufficiently strong, and embrace the necks of the teeth with firmness enough to furnish a solid basis of support. Their vascular canals are developed, and especially those which con- vey to each tooth its interior supply of vessels and nerves. The gums and alveoli are likewise provided with vessels which play their