DIGESTION. CHAP. XXIV. 196 ments of the intestinal canal, which indeed appear, as it were, to start from the junction of this portion of the stomach with its car- diac portion. Under the influence of the magneto-electric appa- ratus this mode of contraction of the pyloric fibres may be well shewn in dogs or cats just dead, and the contrast with the action of the cardiac fibres may be strikingly displayed. We had lately an opportunity of observing the peristaltic character of the movement of the pyloric portion of the stomach during life, in a woman in whom that organ was so enor- mously enlarged as to occupy nearly the entire abdominal cavity, the intestines being pushed into the pelvis, and the arch of the colon lying behind the stomach. The patient was so emaciated, and the abdominal parietes so attenuated, that the action of the viscus could be distinctly seen through them ; and it appeared to resemble pre- cisely the vermicular action of the intestines, for which, indeed, it was taken, as the nature of the case could not be distinctly recog- nized during life. When the action of the stomach is energetic, a constriction is produced, by which the pyloric third is separated from the cardiac portion, thus giving rise to the hour-glass contraction, which con- tinues for some time after death if the animals have been killed at the moment of its occurrence. The same condition may be produced by the magneto-electric apparatus. This constriction has been noticed by all observers in dogs and cats, and may be now and then seen in the human stomach. In some animals such a division between the two portions of the stomach exists in the natural conformation of the organ. The muscular action of the stomach in man and the mammalia seems merely to push on the food into the intestine, and not to subject it to any trituration or mechanical reduction, according to the views of the physiologists of the early part of the last century. Reaumur, and after him Spallanzani, inti’oduced into the stomachs of dogs and cats perforated tubes, made some of brittle and others of flexible materials. These were found quite unaltered by the action of the stomach, although the portions of food contained in them were softened and digested. 2. Changes in the mucous niemhrane of the stomach.—The gastric mucous membrane of the stomach of an animal killed during stomach digestion exhibits a faintish red and swollen ajqjearance, due evidently to an increased afflux of blood, excited by the stimulus of the food. In the dog this redness is limited in a very marked manner to the splenic two-tliirds, the pyloric third presenting a