RESPIRATION. 392 [chap. XXIX. between nelglibouring passages, and even between contio-uoiis lobules. The diameter of tbe lobular passages is from -I- to -P- of an : , ° „ 100200 inch; and that of the cells from ^ to of an inch according to our measure- ments. In a preparation of the lung of the calf, given us by our friend Professor Eetzius, they measure ^ ; and Dr. W. Fig. 206. Addison makes them from -i- 2 0 0 an inch. Bronchial termination in the The slvCleton of the lohllle is thus an lung of the dog. «. Tube (lo- i i buiarpassage)branehingtowards clastic membrane elaborately arrano'ed so the infundibula, b. One of the ,i . .i • , , , . ® ’ infundibula, c. Septa project- tliat tlio air may bo brouglit into contact ing inwards on the infundibular •ji o .i ° wall and forming the alveoli, or Wltll it lOT the mOSt pOl’t Oil llOtll itS cells. From Rossignol. n ... surraces. Over this membrane the whole venous blood of the body is made to course in a continual stream so as to be submitted to the action of the air. Vascular Element.—pulmonary artery., conveying the venous blood to the lungs, is about as large as the aorta, find is furnished with a triple valve at its origin from the right ventricle of the heart. It soon divides into a right and left branch, which enter the lungs at their root and ramify as far as the lobules in company with the bronchia. Arrived at the lobules, the small branches of the pulmonary artery do not enter in company wdth the lobular passages, but distribute themselves over the lobules in the inter- lobular fi,ssures, penetrating at various points between the air- cells, and occupying tubular cbannels in the angles where three or more cells meet. These channels are formed of the same yellow elastic tissue which constitutes the lobular pa.ssages and air-cells, and their wall blends with the proper coat of the terminal twigs of the pulmonary artery which occupy them. The capillaries of the lobule are given off both from the twigs which meander over the lobule and from those which penetrate it, and they form a network which covers the walls of all the cells of the lobule, as well as of the lobular passages, anastomosing with some twigs of the bronchial arteries where the passages are continuous with the terminal bronchia. This network empties its blood into venules Avhich lie first in intercellular channels similar but intermediate to those which lodge the arterial terminations; and these venules collecting the now aerated blood from tbe interior and also from the surface of the lobules, converge to larger veins which lie in the interlobular spaces and tend towards the root of the lungs, but for the most