582 DEVELOPMENT. [chap. xli. This increases gradually^ until it is about a line in diameter. It is called the area pellucida. The darker and more granular part, ex- ternal to the area pellucida, is the area germinitiva, in which may be observed a darker portion, which is the futm’e area vasculosa, so called, because vessels are first observed in this situation. The germinal membrane is composed entirely of cells, which result from the original process of cleavage (page 574). These cells increase at its margin; and in this way the germinal membrane gradually extends itself so as to invest the entire yolk. Serous and Mucous Lamince. — At an early period, the germinal membrane manifests a tendency to split into two layers. These are termed lamina. The upper one, which, in its extent, corre- sponds to the area pellucida, is the serous lamina. The lower one, which is more extensive, and which extends beyond the vascular area, is called the mucous lamina. Reichert, however, in his beautiful investigations upon the deve- lopment of the chick, has described the formation of the layers fi’om which the different organs are evolved in a somcAvhat differ- ent manner. The “ Investing Membrane,” and “ Membrana Intermedia,” of Rei- chert.—The most superficial layer of cells of Avhich the germinal membrane is composed, Avhich is usually known as the “ serous layer,'’ has been termed by Reichert the investing membrane. It extends, at its circumference, between the yolk and the vitellary membrane by the apposition of new cells of the yoUc to its peri- phery, and is formed independently of the vascular system. The rudiments of the nervous system are first seen in the form of a line (primitive streak) immediately beneath the iuA'esting mem- brane, and are developed from a stratum of cells which has sepa- rated itself from the surface of the yolk. Immediately beneath this IS another layer of cells which has been termed the mucous layer of the germinal membrane, also the vascular layer, but Rei- chert has well described it under the term membrana intermedia. It is beneath the central organs of the nervous system, and in contact Avith the chorda dorsalis Lying betAveen the nervous centres on the one hand, and the mucous membrane on the other; and ex- tending beyond the limits of the area pellucida, the membrana inter- media gives origin to the vertebral, cutaneous, and vascular systems, and to the digestive system Avith the exception of its mucous mem- brane. In the dcA’clopment of the higher vertebrate animals, according to Dr. Reichert, the membrana intermedia performs a most important part.