[chap. XXV. DIGESTION. 256 that it fresh bile he deprived of its mucus the bilin will continue unchanged for a considerable time. Among the saline constituents of the bile Berzelius enumerates the following:—oleate, margarate, and stearate of soda, with chloride of sodium, sulphate, phosphate and lactate of soda, and phosphate of lime. Such is the view of the constitution of bile put forward by the celebrated Berzelius, and sanctioned by Mulder. Berzelius remarks that the views which regard bile as a solution of soap, are so far correct, as it contains a small quantity of soap dissolved in it. The most recent analysis of bile is that by Strecker, made under the direction of Liebig, who denies the accuracy of Berzelius’s view, adopting rather that of Demar^ay, Dumas, Liebig, and others, that bile is a solution of a salt of soda with an organic substance of an acid nature, which is not a single acid, but a mixture of a nitrogenous acid free from sulphur {cholic acid), with a second acid, containing both sulphur and nitrogen {choleic acid). Use of the Bile, and Function of the Liver.—From the anatomy of the biliary organs, as well as from the chemistry of the bile, we learn that, before the venous blood of the intestinal canal and the spleen is allowed to reach the right side of the heart, a fluid very rich in carbon is eliminated from it, and poured into the duodenum. The following questions suggest themselves respecting the uses of this fluid ; viz.: is the bile simply an excrement, like the urine or is it an excrement which also serves some ulterior purpose, such as aiding the solution or digestion of the food in the bowels? The doctrine that the secretion of bile by the liver, is merely a mode of eliminating carbon from the system, is strongly opposed by the fact that in all the vetrebrate classes the bile, instead of being carried out of the system by the most direct channel, as the urine is, is made to pass through nearly the whole intestinal canal, and to mingle freely with its contents. Moreover, the point at which it enters the bowel always bears a pretty definite relation to that at which the pancreatic fluid is poured into it. Either these fluids enter the bowel together through a common opening, as in man, or the bile is poured in above, never below, the point of opening of the pancreatic duct. These are capital facts, which must be accounted for by an adequate theory of the uses of the bile. They indicate that the bile has some use in promoting the changes of the food in the intestines, or in contributing to the general process of nutrition in some other way. It is well known that an obstacle to the free