SPERMATOZOON. 549 CHAP. XXXVIl]. That the spermatozoon is really the essential part of the semen, and is that in which all the mysterious fecundating power resides, may be now looked upon as proved beyond a doubt. The later beautiful observations upon the ova of tbe frog, of our lamented friend Mr. Newport, have shown that impregnation does not take place unless the spermatozoon actually passes through the vitelline membrane and comes into immediate contact with the yolk substance. The chemical analysis of the semen has not led to any very im- portant results. The investigations of Frerichs are some of the latest that have been undertaken upon this subject. The most important fact Avhich he has established is, that the spermatozoa consist of bin- oxide of protein, the substance of which epithelial cells are chiefly composed. The other constituents of semen are phosphate of lime, fatty matter, a certain quantity of extractive matter with alkaline sulphates and phosphates, and a small quantity of phosphorus in an unoxidized state. The imperfectly developed semen contains albumen, but this substance cannot be detected in the fully formed secretion. From the various phenomena which we have been considering, and from many other facts which might have been brought forward, we are led to conclude that the spermatozoon is to be regarded in the light of an epithelial cell, or, rather, its nucleus, modified in structure and endowed with peculiar properties. Its mode of de- velopment, the continuous and obviously involuntary nature of the movements, and lastly, its chemical characters, all tend to this conclusion, while they place the originally received notion of the animal nature of the spermatozoon without the bounds of speculation. Upon the nature of the force which is communicated by the spermatozoon to the ovum, we know nothing. Whether it is to be looked upon as a catalytic action, or whether the changes induced are of a chemical nature, are questions to which we can give no answer. Certain it is, that the integi’ity of the spermatozoon is necessary for fecundation. The spermatozoa of hybrids have been found, upon examination, to exhibit structiu’al imperfections, and it has long been known that these animals are incapable of pro- ducing offspring. That all the wonderful changes taking place in the ovum, which lead to the formation of the embryo and the development of the new being, result from the agency of the spermatozoon, is certain;