SECRETION. [chap. XXXII. 454 directly continuous with that of the outer surface, on which the duct opens. This, for example, is the case in the sweat glands, in the sebaceous glands, already described (pp. 422, 423, vol. i.), and in the kidney. But in other instances, whether owing to the form assumed by the terminal extremities of the duct, or, to an actual difference in the arrangement of the glandular epithehum, the greatest difficulty exists in determining the exact nature of the anatomical relation of the glandular and ductal epithelium, and of ascertaining whether they are continuous at all times or only at certain periods when the secretion is discharged. For example, in the salivary glands, the pancreas, and some others, the terminal parts of the gland are vesicular, while the ducts are tubular. Ve- sicular terminations of the ducts may be rendered apparent by mercurial injection; but it is by no means easy to demonstrate the permanent continuity of the epithelium lining or filling these vesicles with that which lines the ducts. It is probable that most or all gland-foUicles were originally closed vesicles. This has been shown by Dr. Allen Thompson to be the case in the early condition of the gastric glands; and Henle applies this view to other gland-structures. In his beautiful investigations upon the testicle of Squalus Cornubicus, Pro- fessor Goodsir has shown that the primary or mother cells are developed by the growth of isolated nucleated cells attached to the side of the duct. These cells grow and become the future acini, being connected with this duct by a hollow pedicle; in their in- terior, secondary cells, in which the spermatozoa are developed, appear. StiU the mother cell is a closed cavity, and separated from the duct by its original wall. At length it gives way at this point and discharges its progeny of cells, eontaining spermatozoa, into the duct. The follicles then appear to become atrophied. There is another elass of gland-structures, in which, according to this view, the mother cell remains persistent after it has discharged its first progeny of cells, and eontinues to produce successive generations of cells; the development of these cells commencing at the ctecal ex- tremity of the follicle. The point at which they originate is looked upon by Professor Goodsir as the pcH’sistent nucleus of the original parent cell; and it is termed by him, the “ germinal eentre.” Although it is scarcely possible to demonstrate the existence of this germinal centre in the gland-follicle, there are many instances in which this view certainly appears to be borne out by the structure of the part when subjected to a careful microscopical examination.