207 THE GASTRIC JUICE. CHAP. XXIV.] stated the leading facts which observation and experiment have developed respecting the act of digestion in the stomach, it remains to inquire what is the real nature of the digesting power of the gastric fluid. Two questions present themselves for consideration: is the digest- ing power of the stomach a true solvent power, producing simply a solution of the matters submitted to its action, without effect- ing any change in their chemical constitution ? or does the digestive fluid exercise a catalytic action on the substances submitted to it, whereby it effects a chemicccl decomposition of them, similar to that produced in barley by diastase, whereby the starch of the grain is converted into sugar, or like the action of yeast upon sugar, whereby the latter is decomposed into carbonic acid and alcohol ? To decide these questions, it is necessary to examine the exact nature of the changes produced in the food by stomach digestion. 3Iil^.—If milk be introduced into the stomach, its caseine is fii’st coagulated and afterwards apparently dissolved. The solidified caseine seems gradually to melt down and becomes absorbed. In overfed infants milk-curd appears in the stools in considerable quantity, the child having received so much milk that its stomach is unable to digest the caseine precipitated from it. When, how- ever, the quantity of milk is in just proportion to the digestive power of the stomach, all the curd is digested, and therefore none is found in the stools. Albumen.—White of egg (ovalbumen), if swallowed raw, is immediately coagulated by the gastric juice and then dissolved. Tiedemann and Gmelin found that after three hours sojourn in the stomach of a dog albumen was dissolved, forming “a yellowish mucous liquor,” which coagulated readily by heat. Coagulated albumen becomes softened down and dissolved in the fluids of the stomach, from which it may again be precipitated by heat or nitric acid. In experiments with the artificial digestive fluid, we find that if the fluid in which albumen had been digested be carefully filtered and subjected to heat and nitric acid, a copious precipitate of albumen will take place. Meat is softened, gelatinized, and dissolved, and albumen may be precipitated by heat, nitric acid, or ferro-cyanate of potass from the liquids obtained from the stomach. Vegetahle Substances.—In all the experiments upon animals of the carnivorous kind (cats, dogs), bread, potatoes, and other vege- table substances underwent change much more slowly than animal