CHAP. XXXIV.] VESSELS UNCOVERED BY EPITHELIUM. 489 Fig. 233. tinues in very active motion many hours after tlie death of the animal (vide Fig. 3, Vol. I.) In the newt, and in some snakes and other reptiles, the tube is completely lined with ciliated epithelium throughout; and by the activity of the motion, the epithelium can he traced for one-third of the way within the capsule. Ciliated epithelium has not yet been demonstrated in the kidneys of mam- malia; hut in one instance Gerlach has seen it in the kidney of the fowl. In various fishes and in many reptiles it is very fre- quently met with. The statement of Gerlach and other observers, that the vessels of the Malpighian tuft are invested with epithelium, may be ex- plained by the fact that small granular or nucleated cells may he frequently observed in connexion with the vessels. A.fter repeated and careful observation, we are convinced that these cells are situ- ated either within the vessel itself or enclosed in its wall (Fig. 233). In the tuft of hatrachian reptiles, the white corpuscles of the blood often give the idea of being connected with the wall of the vessels, instead of lying in their interior. When the vessels are much shrunken, and their walls a little plaited, or corru- gated, the appearance of cells lying upon the little capillary loops is pro Small portion of a loop of capillary vessels rliiPPfl whPTi tlipssp loons are seen in the tuft of the kidney of the large water QUeea wnen huese iOOps> aie aucu lu cristatus), showing nuclei nrnfilp Wp Imvp hppil ahip in manv T^hhin the wall of the vessel. The line above pronie. VV e nave uceu dUlC, m uidii^y outline of part of the capsule. instances, however, to demonstrate ““gnined 215 diameters, small oval or circular cells within the wall of the capillary vessel itself, and are inclined to look upon these as the nuclei of vessels. Here and there a granular cell may sometimes he detected on the surface, hut they are very few in number and irregular in their arrangement; and we are satisfied that it cannot be regarded as a fact of any physiological importance, and that the vessels of the tuft are really hare within the capsule. Convoluted Portion of the Tube.—From the capsule of the Mal- pighian tuft, we pass to the convoluted portion of the tube, which is directly continuous with it. This is composed of a delicate base- ment membrane, lined by epithelium. Externally, the basement membrane is in close contact and probably incorporated with the matrix of the organ; and it is in immediate relation with an abund- ant capillary plexus, which carries the blood after it has passed through the vessels of the Malpighian body. It is from this blood, VOL. II. K Iv.