CHAP, xxiii.] MOVEMENTS OF MASTICATION. 181 H higher secondary law, to which to refer these wonderful pheno- mena of life. The periods of eruption of the permanent teeth, though liable, like those of the milk teeth, to some variety, are, according to Mr. Bell, usually as follow:—the anterior true molars at 6^ years of age, the central incisors at 7, the lateral ones at 8, the anterior and posterior bicuspids at 9 and 10, the canines from 11 to 12, the second true molars from 12 to 13, and the wisdom teeth from 17 to 19. Of the Jcm-bones at different Ages.—The bones undergo some inter- esting changes of form in connexion with the growth and decay of the teeth, which have been well explained by Hunter. The alveolar processes in both jaws appear with the teeth, and disappear when no longer needed to support and enclose them. In the foetus, before the eruption of the teeth, the upper gum is about on a line with the articulation of the jaw, the lower, consequently, is nearly on the same line, and the angle of the jaw very obtuse. But as the teeth pro- trude, and increase in number, the lower jaw is separated from the upper by the depth of the alveoli and crowns of the teeth of both jaws, the body and ascending ramus are both lengthened, and the angle approaches nearly to a right angle. When the teeth are sub- sequently shed, the alveoli disappear, and the lower jaw has to be much more elevated in order to touch the upper. But as its body and ramus cannot return to their former dimensions, its anterior part is thrown a good deal beyond the upper in this action, and it is only the hinder portions in the situation previously occupied by the molar teeth which come into contact. Of the Articulation of the lower Jaio., and the Movements of Mastica- tion.—A constant relation subsists in animals between the nature of the food, the shape and structure of the teeth, and the articulations of the jaw; so that, as Cuvier demonstrated, one of these elements being known, the others may be more or less accurately inferred. Thus, the purely carnivorous animals have teeth fitted to seize and lacerate their food, and the jaw is capable only of the simplest hinge motion. In the herbivorous families, on the contrary, teeth of a complex kind arc provided for pounding and bruising the food, and the joints are so constructed as to allow of extensive sliding motions; while in all there is an inter-articular fibro-cartilage for protection under the ex- treme pressure exerted. The form of the articulation in man, not less than the dental series, denotes an intermediate condition, and forms a strong physiological argument for the mixed diet, which general cus- tom and taste have decided to be natural to our species. As there are cutting, tearing, and grinding teeth, all in moderate proportions, of