240 [chap. XXV. DIGESTION. several fatty molecules of large size, readily distinguished by their highly refractive power. The contrast between the epithelial particles obtained from this flocculent matter, and those of the intestine of an animal that had fasted for some time before death, is very striking, and indicates that they undergo a change during chylification, either connected with the absorbing process or with the transformation of the alimentary substances. (Fig. 163.) Of the peculiar mechanism by which this nascent chyle is intro- duced into the lacteal vessels, and of the nature of the changes which it undergoes in them to form perfect chyle, we can form no adequate idea in the present state of our knowledge. We do know, however, that the material before its entrance into the vessels is very dijfferent from what it becomes after its introduction; and that in its advance towards the centre of the absorbent system it undergoes further changes, all of which tend to assimilate it more nearly to the blood itself. Of the Chyle.—If, as seems most correct, we apply the term chyle to the fluid contained in the lacteal vessels during and shortly after digestion, we must make the distinction between white chyle and transparent chyle. The white chyle is a milk-like fluid, homogeneous in appearance, which, on being withdrawn from the lacteals and allowed to stand, separates, as blood would do, into serum and a clot. This clot consists of fibrine, which entangles, by its coagulation, certain particles proper to the chyle. These are chyle-corpuscles or globules, in every respect similar to lymph- corpuscles, and an infinite multitude of particles of extreme mi- nuteness, to which Mr. Gulliver has given the name of molecular base of the chyle. These particles consist of fatty matter in a state of extreme subdivision. During fasting, and also during the digestion of food wholly devoid of fat, the fluid contained in the lacteals is perfectly trans- parent and colourless, and not to be distinguished from the lymph of the lymphatics. In this fluid there is no molecular base, while all the other elements of the chyle are present. Hence there can be no doubt that the white colour of the chyle is due to the presence of the molecular base. The chyle may exhibit various degrees of milkiness, according to the quantity of the molecular base. The white chyle, therefore, is chyle with molecular base in greater or less quantity; the trans- parent chyle is devoid of molecular base. Both kinds of chyle consist of a liquor chyli, essentially the same as the liquor sanguinis holding suspended in it chyle globules in the transparent-chyle.