INNERVATION. 118 [chap, XX. movements of the pharynx, for when the trunk of the nerve was cut on both sides, the movements of deglutition continued. Dr. Reid’s experiments showed that section of the lingual branches of this nerve did not destroy the power of taste, and therefore that the glossopharyngeal cannot be regarded, according to the views of Pauizza, as the sole nerve of that sense. And this accords so com- • • ^ pletely with anatomy, which shows that a part of the tongue, eu- • joying the gustatory power, is supplied by the fifth nerve and that only, and that another part, also enjoying the same power, is sup- ( plied only by the glossopharyngeal, that no doubt can be entertained i of the correctness of the view which assigns gustatory power to ‘ this nerve as well as to certain filaments of the fifth pair. At a former page we have referred to a case of paralysis of the fifth neiwe in which, while taste was altogether lost in the anterior part of the tongue, it continued at its posterior part; the fifth nerve which sup- plies the tongue in the former situation being paralysed, whilst the glosso-pharyngeal, distributed in the latter region, was free from ^ disease. Two very interesting cases confirmatory of the same view have since been published by Mr. Dixon, in the Med. Chir. Trans. ] vol. xxviii, '' Disease, limited to this nerve, is of extremely rare occur- rence. In one instance that we have met with, in which its neuri- lemma was considerably thickened, there was not only total inability to swallow, but likewise the mucous membrane of the ; pharynx was quite insensible to stimuli, aud that surface of the fauces, which, in. health, may be excited by the slightest touch of a feather, admitted even of friction without any uneasiness to the patient, or the least muscular contraction. The functions of the glossopharyngeal nerve are highly worthy of an attentive study, in reference to the very important question dis- cussed at a former page, as to the existence of distinct spinal and ' cerebral fibres. We have in it an example of a nerve at once exciter and sensitive ; it is a most marked instance of a nerve, not motor in itself, hut capable of exciting motion by its influence on others. Yet no part of the surface to which it is distributed can be touched without sensation being excited, and with it motion. The stimula- tion even of that portion of the tongue which receives filaments from it is capable of exciting the pharyngeal muscles to contract, although the action is not so energetic as when the stimulus is applied to the isthmus faucium. In examining the fauces of patients, the prac- titioner has frequent opportunity of observing the extraordinary sensibility of the mucous membrane, where the glossopharyngeal nerve