121 CHAP. XX.] \ THE VAGUS NERVE. i I pulmonary plexus, of which there are a right and a left plexus, which anastomose freely with each other, situate behind the bifurca- tion of the trachea. The ramifications of this plexus follow chiefly the course of the bronchial tubes, being distributed to their mucous membrane and muscular fibres. After giving off the pulmonary branches, the vagi nerves pass down along the oesophagus, giving off branches to it, and passing through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm are distributed to the stomach. The left nerve passes in front of the cardiac orifice, sends some filaments over the splenic cul de sac, and follows the course of the lesser curvature; some of its branches passing in the lesser omentum to the liver, whilst the rest are distributed to the coats of the stomach. The right nerve passes behind the cardiac orifice, and after giving several branches to the stomach, sinks into the solar jflexus. This outline of the anatomical distribution of this extensively connected nerve is sufficient to show that it is devoted to muscular fibres as well as to sentient surfaces, and that it must he regarded as a compound nerve, sensitive as well as motor. The existence of the ganglion, which involves all the fibres of the vagus nerve, in the canal of the dura mater, has led to the opinion that all its proper fibres are sensitive, while those branches which go to muscles are derived from its large anastomosis with the spinal accessory. Whe- ther this view be correct or not, it is certain that a free communi- cation exists just below the basis cranii between the vagus and the spinal accessory nerves. The branches of this nerve, which anatomy shows to he purely motor, are the pharyngeal, and the inferior laryngeal, whilst the cardiac, oesophageal, pulmonary, and gastric branches are doubtless of a mixed character, and the superior laryngeal is purely sensitive, with the exception of those of its fibres which form the external laryngeal nerve. The distribution of the vagus nerve in the inferior mammalia cor- responds very closely with that in man, and so far confirms the views of function suggested by human anatomy. Its connexion with the sympathetic in some of the mammalia (the dog and cat for instance) is more intimate than in man, for the upper part of the cervical portion of the sympathetic is closely connected with it, so that they appear to form hut one nervous trunk. The general dis- position of the nerve in birds and reptiles does not materially differ from that in man, and it has an analogous arrangement in fishes. The results of the numerous experiments of which this nerve has