305 CHAP. XXVII.] DR. CARPENTER’S HYPOTHESIS. Liebig, however, does not explain why the hsematine is invariably contained in a multitude of nucleated cells. The consideration of this point seems to us to afford the clue to determine the real func- tion of the red particles. The true office of the red blood-corpuscles would, probably, be most correctly described as that of forming or secreting the heema- tine, which in the greatest part of the animal kingdom is coloured^ but which even, though colourless, appears to contain iron. These particles are floating gland-cells, as Henle suggested some years ago; they are in all essential points of structure like the secreting cells of true glands, and there is no reason why, free and floating in a liquid like the liquor sanguinis, they may not exercise upon materials dissolved in that fluid, an influence analogous to that ex- ercised by the elementary particles of the liver, or the kidney, or the pancreas upon the blood. The matter secreted by the blood-cells is the hsematine, which term we would here use to signify not merely the colouring matter but the entire contents of the blood-corpuscle, of which iron is an important, if not an essential ingredient, and which is coloured in the vertebrata and in some of the inverte- brata. It is this hsematine which plays an important part in the attraction of oxygen, and which by its colouring matter also exercises some important influence on the whole economy, for there seems no other source from whence can be derived all that pigment which is diffused throughout various textures, such as muscle, the nervous centres, the skin and its appendages, the eye, &c., but that which is formed in such great quantity in the blood. Office of the Colourless Corpuscles.—If these particles do not con- stitute an early stage of developement of the coloured corpuscles, it is clear that they must be viewed as performing some special function in the blood, independently of the latter. R. Wagner viewed them as identical with chyle and lymph corpuscles, and assuming that in the invertebrata no coloured particles existed, he regarded the blood in such animals as identical with chyle or lymph ; as, in fact, the latter fluid not yet elaborated into blood. In the blood of vertebrata, therefore, he would view these par- ticles as chyle or lymph globules not yet transformed into blood particles. But Dr. Carpenter has put forward a more elaborate hypothesis respecting the office of the white corpuscles. This able physiologist logtuds these particles as the agents in the development of flbrinc in the blood, or in the conversion of albumen or other materials of