CHAP. XXVM.J 293 COAGULATION OF THE BLOOD. and to beware of subjecting patients to those excessive losses of blood, which, experience teaches us, too often inflict upon the general nutrition of the body a shock so severe, that it is more or less seriously affected by it ever after. II. The Phenomenon of Coagulation.—We have already described the separation of the blood into serum and crassamentum. In this consists the phenomenon of coagulation. In a few minutes after blood has been allowed to rest in a vessel, its surface assumes the appearance of a jelly, on which, after a little more time, drops of serum appear to ooze out here and there: these drops multiply and coalesce, so as to cover the jelly-like surface with a layer of serum, which increases so much in quantity, as coagulation ad- vances, that the clot is at last found covered and more or less completely surrounded by serum. The crassamentum, or clot, is a solid mass, varying much in con- sistence : sometimes soft and tremulous, like jelly; at other times firm, and tough almost as leather. If a section of it be made, it will be found in most instances coloured throughout, but always most deeply so at its lower half or third, the heavy red particles gravitating to the lowest part; that portion which is exposed to the air having always a scarlet tint. The surface of the clot is always slightly concave ; sometimes it is remarkably so, and exhibits the appearance of a hollow cup, and on these occasions the upper layers of the clot generally consist of flbrine only, which is of a whitish yellow or buff colour, with an intermixture of colourless corpuscles entangled in its meshes. Hence blood which presents these appear- ances is said to be “ cupped and buffed.” The phenomenon is due to the more complete subsidence of the blood-particles as the clot is being formed, so that its upper layers are left quite free from colouring-matter. The clot, when this state is present, is gene- rally small, tough, and well contracted, and it floats in a large quantity of serum. The period required for the completion of coagulation varies very much : it commences in about two minutes after the blood has been collected in a vessel, and is rarely completed for half an hour afterwards, but more frequently the clot is not perfectly formed in less than one or two hours. After it has been formed, it will continue to contract for many hours, and to press out the serum, which will thus increase in quantity while the bulk of the clot undergoes diminution. Coagulation appears to take place more rapidly under the influ- ence of a high temperature, 114° to 120°, according to Hewson ; it