CHAP. XXX.] INFLUENCE OF FOOD. 423 is much increased by motion of the air, i. e., by a rapid renewal of fresh eold partieles; and all the more if the moving air be dry. A cold dry wind is one of the most powerful refrigerators, but we could hardly realise the full extent to which this is true, without an example. Mr. Fisher, the surgeon to the expedition to the Polar Seas under Sir Edward Parry, has related its extraordinary effects. The hardy sailors found that they could better bear a cold which would freeze mercury (viz., 40° below zero, F.) when the air was perfeetly calm, than a temperature of 10° F. (i. e., 50° higher) when the wind was up. The rate of eooling, and the amount of heat parted with in this manner depends upon the difference in temperature be- tween the body and that of the surrounding medium. The loss of heat must of course be much greater in the Polar regions, where the temperature is 100° or more below that of the body, than in hot climates where the temperatm’e of the air approximates to that of the body. Yet the temperature of the blood is the same in eaeh ease. The cooling effects of cold climates are compensated for by the increased quantity of highly carbonaceous food taken, and the increased activity of the respiratory functions. A much larger quantity of carbonic acid is evolved, and a much greater amount of heat liberated, than in warm climates, where the food must be smaller in quantity, and should contain less carbon and hydrogen. Warm clothing, by protecting the body from the influence of cold air, and so preventing the loss of a certain amount of heat, may be said, as Liebig has remarked, to be equivalent in cold countries to a certain amount of food. The appetite is increased in cold weather, and if in winter we clothe lightly we shall eat moi’C than if warmly clad. We may often remark, that lean spare men, Avho take a great deal of exercise, consume many times the quantity of food which satisfies a moderately plump individual. The former has usually a larger respiratory capacity, and is less protected from the cooling influence of the external air. Influence of Food.—If an insufficient quantity of food be taken, the temperature of the body falls, and the carbon and hydrogen, entering into the composition of the tissues themselves, combine with the oxygen, and thus a certain amount of heat is fm-nished. Deficiency of food is borne much more readily in a high temperature than in a low one. Cold very much expedites death from starvation. The highly-important and interesting experiments of Chossat* upon * Rccherclie.s cxp6riiuentalcs sur ITnanition.