348 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. end in the Malpighian tufts, whence the blood is taken up by the efferent veins, which quickly break up like arteries into another capillary plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes, and this plexus gives origin to the radicles of the renal or emulgent veins. The hepatic portal circulation, however, has several points of communication with the systemic veins or the inferior vena cava; and thus it happens, when from disease of the liver a considerable portion of the portal system of that organ is obstructed or obliter- ated, that a part of the blood from the intestinal canal finds its way into tributary veins of the cava, and returns by that route to the right side of the heart. The points of communication are between the veins of the cava (left renal) and of the intestines, especially the colon and the duodenum, and between the inferior mesenteric and the hemorrhoidal veins, a fact which explains the frequent occurrence of hemorrhoids in obstructions of the liver; also between superficial branches of the portal veins of the liver, and the phrenic veins, as pointed out by Kiernan. Bernard states that immediately after the portal vein has entered the liver, and sometimes before, a certain number of branches are given off from it, which, entering the liver, some superficially, others more deeply, form communications with the vena cava. Of the Foetal Circulation.—In the foetus in utero the course of the circulation is greatly modified, by reason of the inaction of the lungs as aerating organs, and the consequent imperfect attraction of the blood to them. During intra-uterine life, the aeration of the foetal blood is effected by the placenta, a highly vascular organ, in which the foetal blood is brought into a very close relation to the maternal blood as it circulates through the wall of the uterus. The placenta, therefore, is in effect the lung of the foetus, and bears a corresponding relation to its circulation. A large portion of the foetal blood is carried to the placenta through the umbilical arteries, Avhich are continuations of the trunks of the internal iliac arteries escaping from the body of the foetus through the umbilicus. From the placenta the blood is re- turned to the foetus by the umbilical vein, which is bound up with the umbilical arteries in the umbilical cord, and enters the body of the foetus at the navel. From this point the umbilical vein passes upwards and to the right side under the liver, in its longitudinal fissure, and at its transverse fissure it joins the sinus of the vena porta, through which most of its blood is distributed to the liver. One large branch, however, follows the course of the original trunk in the posterior part of the longitudinal fissure, and opens