MATURATION AND DISCHARGE OF OVA. [ciIAP. XXXIX. 564 the menstrual periods in the human female as identical with those of heat or rut in animals; a view which has been especially ad- vocated by Bischoff. The maturation and escape of ova, then, in all animals, is a peri- odical phenomenon, and even in the human subject, if not accom- panied with, is shortly followed by, increased sexual desire; while, in animals, sexual intercourse takes place at these times alone. Tlie rupture of the follicle is probably due to the increased local determination of blood at these periods, by which the contents of the Graafian follicle are forced towards the surface of the ovary. Besides the escape of a certain quantity of blood into the follicle, an exudation takes place from its lower part, so that the contents of the folhcle are gradually forced towards the surface, and at the same time, the structures at this point gradually become thinner, until at last the peritoneal coat, and the thin layer of the stroma, give way, and the contents of the follicle escape through the fissure. The ope.ning soon closes, leaGng a small cicatrix. After the ovum has arrived at the most superficial portion of the follicle in the manner just described, and is about to escape, the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube grasp the ovary; and the ovum, after it has escaped from the ruptured follicle, ordinarily falls into the funnel-shaped ca'suty at the base of the fimbriae, whence it is transmitted into the Fallopian tube, along which it is gradually propelled, chiefiy, no doubt, by the vermicular contractions of the walls, but in part, also, by the vibration of the cilia which line its interior, into the uterus. In some distressing cases, happily very rare, the ovum falls into the cavity of the peritoneum, instead of entering the Fallopian tube, and the embryo becomes developed in this situation. These cases usually terminate in death. Some- times, however, the remains of the fcetus escape by suppuration through the abdominal walls, or into the intestine. Immediately after the escape of the ovum from the ovary, cer- tain peculiar and characteristic changes ensue in the follicle which contained it, and these are influenced by the occurrence of impreg- nation. If impregnation has taken place, the lining membrane of the uterus also becomes the seat of peculiar changes, which do not occur under other circumstances. Tlie changes which affect the ovum itself, consequent upon impregnation, will he more conve- niently considered when we have referred to the inanner in which corpora lutea are produced. The mode of formation of the mem- hrana decidua will be alluded to afterwards. Formation of Corpora Lutea.—If the Graafian follicle of a mam-