98 INNERVATION. CHAP. XVllI. Muller, “ must be regarded as a surface upon which all the fibres of the cochlear nerve are spread out, so as to he nearly simultaneously exposed to the impulse of the sonorous undulation, and simulta- neously thrown into the maximum state of condensation, and again into the maximum state of rarefaction.” “This spreading out of the nerve fibres upon the lamina spiralis, insures a more complete participation of the fibres in the impulses communicated by the solid parts of the cochlea.” Moreover, “ the intensity with which sonor- ous undulations are communicated to a body, is proportionate to the extent of surface over which they can act on it. Thus, when a sound is excited in water, and is conducted to the stopped ear by means of a rod, the intensity of the sound heard increases with the depth to which the rod is immersed in the water, or with the ex- tent in which it is in contact with the surface of the water.”* The fiuid in the scalae of the cochlea, with the helicotrema or orifice of communication must facilitate the vibrations of the lamina spiralis, and we have already assigned to the cochlearis muscle a protective use to the cochlear nerves. The Otoliths.—The earthy particles, which, either as pulverulent masses, or as hard porcelainous stones, are connected with the nerves of the membranous labyrinth, must reinforce the sonorous undula- tions, and communicate to the membranous labyrinth and its nerves vibratory impulses of greater intensity than the perilymph alone could impart. In illustration of this, Muller mentions that sonorous undulations in water are not perceived by the hand itself immersed in the water, but are felt distinctly through the medium of a rod held in the hand. The experiment of Camper is also illustrative. Fill a bladder with water and place a stone or some other hard body in it. The slightest impulse communicated to the bladder disturbs the stone, which consequently produces a greater impression oivthe hand by which the bladder is supported. The Semicircular Canals.—There is nothing known of the function of the semicircular canals. Yet their almost constant existence, and nearly constant number evince their physiological importance. In most cases of congenital deafness they are found defective. Their constancy in the higher animals of number, and of position, which is such that they correspond to the three dimensions of a cube, its length, breadth, and depth, suggested to Autenrieth and Kerner the opinion that they are the parts concerned in conveying a know- * Muller’s Physiology, by Baly, vol. ii. p. 1294. Dr. Young regarded the cochlea, as a micrometer of sound.