530 GENERATION. [chap, xxxvi. and this process is repeated for nine or ten generations. The last autumnal broody however, of these larvae produce in the same vivi- parous manner perfect male and perfect female insects, with fully- developed sexual organs. The female deposits her ova in the axils of the leaves and other protected parts of the plant, where they remain till the following spring, when they are hatched, and the larvae above-described issue forth ;—the first larva producing eight, and each of these repeating the process, until, in the course of the summer, millions of larval forms are produced. This must conclude our very imperfect sketch of these interesting processes; and, for more detailed information, we must refer the reader to the works enumerated at the end of the present chapter. Professor Owen considers that the larval forms result from the development of a portion of the original germ-substance of the yolk, which was not converted into a portion of the textiu’es of the beings which resxilted from the immediate development of the ovum; and hence he has applied the term parthenogenesis, or virgin generation, to this process of development. Dr. Carpenter, on the other hand, looks upon the process as akin to gemmation, or budding, rather than one of actual generation. Victor Cams shows that in this process of development the embryo is formed from a granxilar germ, whereas ordinarily it results from the process of cell-multiplication, as will be shown in the chapter on the develop- ment of the embryo. The same author contrasts the process of metamorphosis and metagenesis in the following words: “ Larvae, the subjects of metamorphosis, arrive at the state of perfection by throwing off provisional structm’es which belong to their larval con- dition ; but nurses,* the subjects of metagenesis, are themselves entirely provisional structures.” In the present state of knowledge, it is difficult to group these extraordinary phenomena under one general head. Although we may contrast the processes of metamorphosis and metagenesis with each other, and draw definite distinctions between them, we must remember that there are instances in which both these pro- cesses occur; and although metamorphosis affects a single indivi- dual, and metagenesis a very numerous progeny, we do not feel ourselves in a position to define the exact relation which one bears to the other, and we think it better to avoid any attempt at generalisa- * The term “nurse” was originally applied by Steenstrup to these larval forms, but we have purposely avoided its use, as it is for many reasons very objectionable and likely to convey a wrong idea of the. natui’e of the viviparous larvEC.