I CHAP. xxviii.J FOKCES WHICH CIRCULATE THE BLOOD. 349 into the inferior vena cava, just before that vessel communicates with the heart. This vessel is the ductus mnosus—a continuation of the trunk of the umbilical vein—through which some of the blood ! returning from the placenta, passes directly to the inferior vena cava, and to the right auricle of the heart, without traversing the liver. The blood thus received from the inferior vena cava (being that from the body below the diaphragm), and also from the placenta, i does not pass into the right ventricle. A very interesting piece of I mechanism obstructs its passage in that direction, and favours its I flow across the right auricle through the foramen ovale, now freely open in the septum, into the left auricle. This is the Eustachian valve, which is situated between the inferior vena cava and the right auriculo-ventricular opening, and being connected with the [ anterior and inferior part of the annulus ovalis, it brings the fora- men ovale into very close connexion with the inferior vena cava, and forms an imperfect septum towards the auriculo-ventricular opening, quite sufficient, however, to impede the flow of blood in the downward direction. Arrived in the left auricle, the blood is transmitted thence to the left ventricle, and from this latter cavity through the arch of the aorta to the head, neck, and upper extremities, whence it is re- turned by the vense innominatse and by the superior vena cava to the right auricle, wdiich transmits it to the right ventricle. This latter ventricle propels it into the trunk of the pulmonary artery, which in the foetus, divides into three vessels, not into two, as in the adult. These are the two pulmonary arteries which separate from the trunk at right angles, one for each lung, and between them, following the direction of the parent trunk, a large vessel, nearly as large as the pulmonary artery itself, which forms a direct anastomosis with the aorta, just below its arch. This is the ductus arteriosus^ through which the blood is transmitted directly from the right ventricle to the commencement of the abdominal aorta. Of the Forces hy which the Blood is circulated.—The principal force by which the blood is moved throughout the vascular system, and returned to the heart is that which is generated by the contraction of the left ventricle, or what is commonly called the ms a tergo of the heart. The force with which the heart propels the blood into the arte- rial system has been variously estimated. Valentin considers that the left ventricle exerts a force equal to one-fiftieth of the weight of the body, and taking the muscular power of the right ventricle