461 CHAP. XXXIII.] COMPOSITION OP THE LIVER. The following is an analysis by Prof. Beale of a liver^ presumed to be healthy. The organ was taken from the body of a man thirty-one years of age, wdio was killed by falling from a second- floor window while in the enjoyment of perfect health. Water 68-58 Per 100 of Solid Matter. Solid matter 31-42 Fatty matter . . . . 3-82 12-16 Albumen 4-67 14-86 Extractive matter . . . . 5-40 17-18 Alkaline salts . . . . 1-17 3-72 Vessels, etc., insoluble in water 16-03 51-01 Earthy salts . . . . . -33 1-05 100-00 In disease, the proportion of these constituents is liable to very great variation. In fatty degeneration, an enormous amount of fatty matter may accumulate in the organ. In one remarkable case, analyzed by Dr. Beale, the liver contained 75'07 per cent, of sobd matter, and of this 65T9 consisted of fatty matter.* In scro- fulous degeneration of the liver the albuminous materials and the water are increased, while the fatty matter is diminished in quantity. The liver is situated in the right hypochondrium, and reaches over to the left, being thick and indented behind where it crosses the projecting bodies of the vertebrae, convex on its upper surface where it lies in the hollow of the diaphragm, and concave below where it rests against the stomach, colon, and right kidney. It is covered to a great extent by the peritoneum, the reflexions of which on to neighbouring parts, serve as ligaments to bind it in place, as well as to allow of the entrance and exit of the nerves and vessels, some of the latter being sufficiently large and strong to aid materially in the mechanical support of the organ. The liver is an unsymmetrical organ. In the foetus, it is situated more equally on each side of the median line of the trunk; but in the adult the right side enormously preponderates, by the wasting or want of development of the left. It is still, however, divisible into a right and left lobe by the broad peritoneal bgament above, and by the longitudinal fissure beneath, both of these commencing in front by a notch in the border, across which passes, between the layers of the broad ligament, the cord-like remnant of the umbilical * Diseases of the Liver. Dr. Budcl. Second edition, 1852.