CHAP. XXVIII.] STRUCTURE OF THE VALVES OF THE HEART. 337 tliat in other parts of the heart. This is due to an increased dcvelopement of the fibrous layer beneath the epithelium, espe- cially of its yellow element. The precise meaning of the greater thickness of endocardium in these parts of the heart is far from obvious. Of the Structure of the Vainer of the Heart.—The valves of the heart are formed by processes of fibrous tissue covered by epithe- lium. Between the auricle and ventricle, as well as at the mouths of the aorta and the pulmonary artery, there are remarkable deve- lopements of fibrous tissue. Interposed between each auricle and ventricle there is a fibrous zone or ring, to which the muscular fibres of the auricle adhere on the one hand, and those of the ventricle on the other. The fibrous tissue is prolonged inwards towards the cavity of each ventricle, so as to form three curtains on the right side (the tricuspid valve), and two on the left (the mitral valve). These curtains are continuous with the chordie ten- dineffi, which appear to be inserted into them at their margins and at various distances from them on the surface next to the ven- tricle, but not at all on that which corresponds to the auricle. They are covered on both surfaces by epithelium, which likewise extends over each of the chorda; tendinea;. The fibrous tissue at the orifice of the pulmonary artery, as well as at that of the aoi’ta, con- sists of fibrous cords arranged as three festoons continuous with one another, the convexity of each being directed towards the muscular tissue of the infundibulum of the ventricle, and its con- cavity to the artery. On the right side the muscular fibres of the infundibulum adhere to a small portion of the centre of the convexity of each of these festoons, and the circular fibrous coat of the artery seems closely at- tached to the whole extent of the concavity. On the loft side, the fibrous fes- toons are connected partly with the muscular fibres of the ventricle, and partly with the base of the inner curtain of Fig. 198. CO €= A portion of the aortic semilunar valve in the (log. a. Surface of the valve, b, Nuclei of the epithelium seen on its margin. Dia^am of the semilunar valves of the aorta (after Mor- gagni). a, Corpus Arantii on the free border, b, Attached border, c, Orilicca of the coronary arteries.