[chap. xliv. LACTATION. 626 dilated as tliey approach the nipple, and the dilatations are called reservoirs. In the human subject, these arc very small; hut in the cow, they are large enough to hold a quart. The nipple is surrounded by a dark-coloured circle, termed the areola., smooth in the child, but slightly tuherculated at the period of puberty. In the child it is about half an inch in diameter; hut in the adult, about an inch; while during lactation, it increases to two inches. After impregnation, it changes from its reddish colom’ to a dark brown. A secretion is poured out from the mucous foUicles, which lubri- cates the skin about the nipple. The terminal follicles of the gland were injected by Mascagni; hut for almost all that we know of the minute anatomy of the breast, we are indebted to the beautiful researches of Sir Astley Cooper, published in 1840. The surface of the breasts, in the unimpregnated state, is smooth and compact; but as pregnancy advances, they become uneven, in consequence of the distension of the follicles with secretion. The nipple, before puberty, forms an almost smooth conical eminence; but in lactation it becomes flattened, so that its extre- mity becomes the broader part, and thus it is more readily held by the child’s mouth. Its characters have been miautely described by Sir Astley Cooper:—“ At sixteen years it is slightly wrinkled ; at seventeen, it has small papillm upon its surface; from twenty to forty years, the papdlm are large; from forty to flfty, the nipple becomes wrinkled; from fifty to sixty, the nipple is elongated; and in old age, it usually has a warty appearance.” The cutis of the nipple contains a great number of papillae. It is sensitive and highly vascular. “ The direction of these papillae is from the base towards the apex of the nipple; so that they are pushed back as the mammilla enters the mouth of the child, and thus greater excitement is produced.” Connected with the cutis of the nipple are numerous non-striated muscular fibres, to the presence of which the erection of the nipple is due. In their minute structure, the lacteal glands are closely allied to the pancreas and salivary fluids. The gland structure is arranged so as to form lobules, which are connected together with a considerable quantity of firm areolar tissue (vol. i. p.78). The terminal follicles are about the -j^th of an inch in dia- meter. They are lined mth a layer of delicate epithehal cells, which become much altered at the time of lactation. At this time