RESPIRATION. CHAP. XXIX. 400 sternal ribs of birds, which are powerfully inspiratory, and slope downwards and backwards from the sternum. These may have their action explained by Hamberger’s views, if the sternum be regarded as giving the fulcrum instead of the vertebral column. Again, the lowest external intercostal lengthens in inspiration, and is an expiratory muscle, the eleventh rib in inspiration rising from the twelfth, which is stationary.* On the whole we may conclude, that in inspiration, the upper ribs rise by the action of the scaleni—that the rest of the ribs in their hinder part rise and open out by the action chiefly of the external intercostals; while in front the intercostal spaces are nar- rowed above by the rise of the second, third, and fourth ribs to- wards the first, and at the same time widened midway and below, the flexibility of the costal cartilages having much to do with this latter movement. It may, also, be regarded as certain that the internal intercostals, except in front, are muscles of expiration, and approximate the ribs. Dr. Sibson has well pointed out that the forces which expanU the thorax act, in a great degree, in a separate and independent manner on its several parts, that the lower region, and the lower lobes of the lungs which fill it, are enlarged by the diaphragm and lower external intercostals, while the upper region expands under the influence of the scaleni, its external intercostals, and (in front) its internal intercostals. A variety of morbid conditions of the lungs, where the expansibility of one or more lobes is modified, illustrates this observation, for one side of the chest may be observed to expand without the other, or a portion of one side without the rest. How important this amount of independence of the parts of the chest is to the preservation of life, under accident or disease, needs hardly be explained. * On February 26, 1851, Dr. Sibson exposed the intercostal muscles in a dog under chloroform, when we noted the following as facts :—1. The lower fibres of the serratus magnus contract during inspiration; the upper fibres lengthen. 2. The first five intercostal spaces diminish during inspiration. 3. The seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs diverge increasingly from the seventh to the ninth, and the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth in a less degree. 4, The twelfth rib is sta- tionary. 5. The first external intercostal muscle shortens, the lowest lengthens, during inspiration. 6. The first and second internal intercostal muscles, in front, shorten during inspiration ; the third, also, in a very slight degree. 7. The sixth internal intercostal elongates during inspiration, and the ninth also, but in a greater degree. 8. The eleventh anterior external intercostal of the diaphragmatic ribs shortens during inspiration. 9. Behind, the tenth external intercostal shortens, the tenth internal lengthens, during inspiration.