t 334 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [ciiap. xxvui. of fibrous tissue {corpus Arantii) iuto two equal portions. As the blood flows from the ventricle, these valves lie up against the wall of the artery; but immediately the blood regurgitates towards the ven- tricle, they are pushed by it in towards the mouth of the artery, and their free margins, as well as a considerable portion of their ventricular surfaces coming into close apposition, an effectual barrier is formed against the return of the blood. The semilunar valves of the aorta are essentially the same in all points of form and struc- ture as those of the pulmonary artery; but those of the aorta are the stronger. The inner surface of the wall of the central cavity of each ven- tricle is marked by very numerous fleshy columns {carnea columnar) which project from it in relief. There are three orders of them ; first, the simple column in relief, which adheres throughout its whole length to the wall of the ventricle ; secondly, the column, attached at each extremity, but free in the interval, so that a probe or other instrument may be passed beneath its middle part; and thirdly, the column attached at one extremity to the wall of the ventricle, and projeeting into its cavity by the other : these last are distinguished from the others by the name of muscidi papillares; the chordae tendineaj spring from their free extremities, and are inserted into the mitral and tricuspid valves, and one or two into the wall of the ventricle. The infundibular portion of the ventricle is perfectly smooth on its inner surface, and quite free from eolumnaj carnese. The auricles are thin-walled muscular bags of irregular somewhat cuboidal shape. Each communicates by a wide orifice, with its corresponding ventricle, and is separated from its fellow by a thin fleshy septum, which at its middle is so thin as to be translucent. At this situation an orifice existed during intra-uterine life, through which a communication took place between the auricles {foramen ovale, or Botalli). Each auricle has two distinct portions ; the sinus venosus which forms by far the greater portion of the bag, and the proper auricle, or auricular appendage, which appears like an offshoot from the former, somewhat in the shape of a dog’s ear, projecting forwards on each side of the aorta and pulmonary artery. The veins pour their blood into the sinus venosus; the auricular appendage receives no blood vessels, but its cavity communicates with that of the sinus venosus. The right auricle receives the two great veins of the system, and the great venous trunk of the heart, the coronary vein. The superior vena cava opens into the upper angle of the right auricle, passing tlownwards and forwards ; the inferior