395 ANATOMY OF THE LUNG, CHAP. XXIX.] of an inch in thickness. In some of the mammalia, as the kan- garoo, the rat, and mouse, the terminal air spaces are too minute to contain even a single particle of epithelium, and cannot therefore be lined by a pavement of such particles. The elastic tissue described as forming the cell wall in the human lung, is in such instances very imperfect, being deficient in the areolse of the vascular net- work, so as to render the cell-walls cribriform, or rather to reduce the terminal air-receptacles into a congeries of inosculating and most minute and irregular passages. In the bird’s lung the elastic tissue, according to the same anato- mist, is even more scanty. The mucous membrane lining the bronchia, ceases at the commencement of the lobular passages, and these passages seem hollow'ed out in the substance of a solid capil- lary plexus, or one in which the capillaries extend and anastomose indifferently in all directions. This vascular plexus forms the only wall of these passages, and the air has access from the pas- sages into the interstices of the plexus, so as everywhere to sur- round and touch the whole surface of every capillary. Instead therefore of the terminal air-spaces being cells with a plane net- work of capillaries on their walls, they are the mere interstices of a solid vascular plexus. Thus a more abundant intermix- ture of the blood and air is secured, and the ultimate tissue of the lung is re- duced to the simple capil- lary wall, arranged so that air has access to its exterior. The adhesion of the lungs to the costal surface, and the support afforded by the car- tilaginous and other tissues of the bronchial tubes, as well as by the areolar tissue bounding the elongated lo- linlpH nrp cnffipi’pnf TyioUi Slightly oblique section through a bronehial tube. OUieS, ai e sumcient to mam- showing at a the eavity of the tube, b. Its lining incni- tain the integrity of so frail a web. The aerial interstices conUguoL^'iobuUs of the vascular plexus are t\Tme^he”‘*o^whi usually even smaller in dia- meter than the capillaries themselves, and, according to Mr. Rainey, average of an inch. The above fig, (208) is from I) D 2 is membrane, where it ceases at the lar passages, d d. e e. Spaces between , containing the terminal pulmonary supplying the capillary plexus, //, to eh the air gains access by the lobular Fig. 203. C