CHAP, xxi.j FUNCTIONS OF THE SYMPATHETIC. 145 that the peristaltic movements of the intestines will continue under similar circumstances. This peculiarity seems to be referrible to a double cause; first, the disposition of the muscular fibres themselves, which is such that a contraction cannot take place at one part without affecting the ad- jacent fibres, so that the contraction of one set of fibres appears to stimulate those in their immediate vicinity. This progressive contraction is well seen in the intestines. Secondly, the frequent oc- currence of small ganglia, not only among the plexuses of the sym- pathetic, but also, as in the heart, upon or among the muscular fibres themselves. These ganglia, it is reasonable to suppose, are so many little magazines of nervous force, which, by their intimate connexion with the muscular fibres themselves, render them capable of repeating their action at intervals, after their disconnexion from the main trunk of the sympathetic system. Much, however, in the peristaltic actions is perhaps due to the peculiar constitution of the unstriped muscular fibre itself; a consti- tution which gives it a slow and enduring, rather than a quick, energetic, and fleeting contraction. The actions of the heart are intermediate to those of the intestine and of voluntary muscle, and so are its muscular fibres, which, while they exhibit the striped appearance of voluntary muscle, are nevertheless devoid of the sar- colemma, and interlace in a peculiar manner with each other. The gelatinous nerve-fibres exhibit the same apparent inferiority of or- ganization as the unstriped muscular fibre. It is a remarkable confirmation of these views, that in the tench {Cyprirms tinea), according to Ed. Weber, in which the muscular fibres of the ali- mentary canal are of the striped kind, there is no peristaltic action of the intestines, and that the application of a rapid succession of electrical shocks from a magneto-electric rotation instrument causes that sudden and quick contraction which characterises the striped muscular fibre.* An observation made by Pourfour du Petit,*f* many years ago, suggested an oflice of the sympathetic, distinct from sensation or ordinary motion, but apparently not less important than either. He found that the division of the trunk of the sympathetic in dogs, op- * By experiments with the magneto-eleetric instrument, E, Weber has given additional illustration of the fact that the peristaltic contraction is characteristic of the unstriped fibre, and that the sudden and quick contraction is peculiar to the striped fibre. Sec his elaborate article “ Muskclbewcgung” in Wagner’s Handwor- tcrbuch, 184G, and our remarks at pp. 18.5, 192, 193, vol, i. t Histoire de 1 Acad. Royal dcs Sciences, an. 1727, &c. Lettres concernant dcs reflexions sur les dccouvertcs faites sur Ics veux, 1732. VOL. II. L