CHAP. XXII.] OF THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. 007 to be formed originally from the most superfieial eells of the yolk. The mueous membraue is- developed from a thin layer of smaller cells of the yolk in the interior. Between the outer layer, which hecomes converted into the museular coat, and the inner layer, which constitutes the mucous membrane, a glandular layer is formed. From this tube the different parts are gradually evolved. The omphalo-mesenterie duct is connected with the lower part of the small intestine, just previous to its junction with the large in- testine. The original connexion with the umbilical vesicle is sometimes marked by an elongated pouch, or diverticulum, per- sistent in the adidt. The original yolk-cells, contained in the eavity of the intestine, slowly disappear. The length of the small intestine gradually increases, until it assumes its mature form. The stomach, at an early period, is not wider than the rest of the canal, and its limits are not to be distinguished. Originally, the tube of the intestine is eompletely closed, both at the mouth and anus. The membrane is gradually removed, and an opening formed. In cases of imperforate anus there is no opening, in which condition an operation is necessary, as soon as possible after birth. Development of the Liver, and Pancreas.—The precise mode of origin of the liver in the embryo has not yet been ascer- tained with certainty. Some observers hold that this large gland is originally formed upon a diverticulum of the intestine, while others have concluded that it is developed from a distinct and separate mass of blastema. In the chick the first rudiment of this organ may be discerned between the fiftieth and sixtieth hour, and is described by Remak as consisting of two sets of cells — an ex- ternal one, continuous with the external surface of the intestine, and an internal layer, composed of epithelium, and lining the sac, which ultimately becomes divided, so as to form the duets. From the epithelial lamina the columns of liver cells are formed; these extend into the outer lamina, braneh and anastomose, and include in the meshes thus produced, the cells of the outer surface, from which the vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue of the gland are developed. Muller describes the liver, as formed on the fourth day of incu- bation, by a conical protrusion of the intestinal tube. The walls of the protrusion become very thick, and in their substance the ducts ramify. According to Reichert, the liver and pancreas in the embryo