[chap. XXVII. 298 THE BLOOD. any other part (Fig. 173). Its size varies considerably: in the same drop of blood there are corpuscles of all sizes within a range of an inch in diameter, the average being With a good microscope, and a magnify- om of fr_„. 4 0 0 0 from the ’ .3500 to —^— 2 8 0 0 to ^ . 3 2 0 0 Fig. 173. Red corpuscles from human blood: — a. Viewed on the surface, c. Viewed in pro- file. b. An aggregation of the corpuscles in a roll. Magnified 400 diameters. Fig. 174. B cfei ing power of 200 diameters, the characters of the blood-corpuscles may be most clearly seen, and when the instrument is perfectly adjusted, the double concave surface may he unequivocally demonstrated. If the corpuscles are floated in water, they become biconvex: if in a fluid denser than serum, as in a strong saline or saccharine solution, they shrink, put on a shrivelled aspect, and become granulated on their surface (Fig. 174, b); this shrivelled appearance may again be got rid of by diluting the menstruum and reducing its specific gravity to the lowest point. It has been afiirmed, by Mulder and others, that the blood-corpuscles of venous blood are biconvex— those of arterial being biconcave— and they attribute the difference of colour of these two kinds of blood to the different mode in which the light is reflected from the concave the convex surfaces of their respective corpuscles. With refer- ence to this doctrine, we have only to state that we have care- fully examined two portions of the same blood after they had been agitated in oxygen and carbonic acid gas, and thus been rendered respectively scarlet and purple, but that we have failed to detect any well-marked difference in shape between the blood-corpuscles of the two specimens. The blood-particles have a remarkable tendency to aggregate in rolls like pieces of coin (Fig. 173, h) : this tendency, as has been already remarked, is said by some to be greatly increased in blood which forms a huffy coat in its coagulation. The red blood-corpuscle of Mammals resembles in shape and structure that of man (Fig. 174) : there is mueh diversity of size in the various orders ; it is smallest in the ruminants, and the smallest known is that of the Napu musk-deer, whieh is reported by Mr. Gulliver not to exceed Tsoooth of an inch in diameter. The Red corpuscles of the ox, magnified 400 diameters, a. In their natural state, a. Pro- file view. b. Viewed on the surface, e. A , corpuscle altered in shape, n. Corpuscles and altered by a menstruum of high density.