41 THE EYELIDS. CHAP. XVII. wards, under the inferior rectus, is inserted into the sclerotic, near, but beneath the superior oblique. The action of the recti muscles is obvious: when used in concert, they fix the eyeball; when singly, they turn it towards their respective sides. The globe, besides being imbedded in fat, is suspended or slung in a capsule of fibrous tissue, with which it is in immediate contact. This is attached in front to the tarsal cartilages, and is prolonged backwards over the globe and optic nerve, after being perforated by the muscles. Mr. O’Ferrall, who has lately directed attention to this fibrous struc- ture, has termed it the tunica vaginalis oculi. It is important, as furnishing support to the eyeball under muscular movements. The recti muscles are supplied by the third pair of nerves, ex- cept the external, which receives the sixth. The oblique muscles antagonize the recti, and must in addition, if acting together, draw the globe Inwards, and converge the axes of the eyes. The superior oblique, if alone, would most probably direct the front of the eye downwards and outwards, and the inferior oblique up- wards and inwards; but on these points much difference of opinion still prevails. The former is supplied by the fourth pair, the latter by the branch of the third that gives the motor fibres to the ophthal- mic or lenticular ganglion, from which the ciliary muscle and iris receive their nerves. And, in connexion with the latter arrangement, it is interesting to remark that the pupil contracts when the eyes are directed inwards and upwards, and generally also in the adjustment for near vision, which is attended with a convergence of the optic axes. During sleep the eyes are usually turned inwards and upwards, and the pupil is contracted—actions produced through the medium of the inferior division of the third pair supplying the inferior oblique and iris. The iris is evidently involuntary in its movements ; it contracts only in obedience to the stimulus of light upon the retina, or when the eye is turned upwards and inwards. The eyelids are exquisitely adapted to shield the eye from too strong light, and to protect its anterior surface from the contact of hurtful substances. In the upper lid, which is much larger and more moveable than the lower, there is a thin sheet of cartilage, curved to fit the front of the eye, and to facilitate its gliding motion over the globe. To the posterior convex border of this tarsal car- tilage the levator palpebree muscle is attached, which thus serves to elevate the whole lid. The lower lid possesses a very narrow slip of cartilage, which meets the upper at each side through the medium of fibrous tissue, which, at the outer angle of the eye is attached loosely to the malar bone, and at the inner angle forms a tendinous