272 ABSORPTION. CHAP. XXVI. lung, on all of which many glands occur; and as it empties itself into the great vein, the lymphatics of the left upper extremity, and left side of the head and neck come to meet it. (2) The lymphatics of the right side of the chest, of the right arm, and of the right side of the neck and head, crowd towards the junction of the right subclavian and jugular veins, and open into the former, usually by a large but short trunk. The number of lymphatic glands in the whole body may be estimated at from two to three hundred, or even more. In general, but especially in the limbs, the lymphatic vessels form many trunks of equal diameter, taking the same direction, and joining, and again dividing irregularly, without altering their size. In all this they differ remarkably from the ordinary arrangement of the sanguiferous vessels. The absorbent vessels differ from the blood-vessels in the delicacy and semi-transparency of their coats, which allow the nature of the contents to be seen through them; the white colour of the chyle in the lacteals, or mercury artificially thrown in, is at once visible from the outside. When the vessels are filled we observe many con- strictions, depending on the exi.stence of valves in the interior, so placed as to prevent a retrograde flow of the chyle or lymph. These valves are closer together in some parts than in others. In general they are further apart in the narrower vessels, but in the thoracic duct, the largest of all, they are unfrequent. They are usually closest set in vessels of medium size, i. «., in those of from -f^th to Tsth of an inch diameter, but they are not so near to one another in the lymphatics of the upper extremities, and the head and neck, as in tho.se of the lower limbs. Besides occurring in succession in the course of the vessels, they are almost always found at the origin or termination of branches, and also where the lymphatics empty themselves into the veins. The absorbent vessels have a proper coat, an outer investment of areolar tissue, and an inner lining of epithelium. (1) The proper coat is formed chiefly of circular fibres, relatively most abundant in the smaller vessels, analogous to the contractile tissue of the blood-vessels, and a modification of the unstriped muscle, containing elongated nuclei. On the inner side of the circular fibres are longitudinal fibres, more resembling white fibrous tissue (fig. 169, A). (2) The fibres of the areolar coat have an irregular course, and blend with the neighbouring tissues. This coat allows of slight movements of the vessel, and contains the blood-vessels which ramify in considerable abundance on the proper coat. (3) The epithelial lining consists