CHAP. XXV.] THE FiECES. 267 The ordinary expulsive actions of the rectum are clue simply to the stimulus of distension acting upon the circular muscular fibres. ^Vhen the mucous membrane is irritated, as under the influence of a purgative, or in diseased states, the action of the rectum takes on the character of a reflex act, excited by the contact of the faeces with the irritable mucous membrane. The quantity of the faeces is determined partly by the quantity and quality of the food, partly by the quantity of the secretions poured into the canal. If the food exceed much what the alimen- tary canal can reduce and absorb, the quantity of faeces will be considerable. Vegetable food produces a greater amount of faeces than animal, because the former is eaten in greater quantity than the latter, and because it contains much that is incapable of reduc- tion in the stomach or bowels. The faeces of carnivora are always absolutely and relatively smaller in quantity than those of herbivora. And those tribes of mankind who feed chiefly on vegetable food make large quantities of faeces. The ordinary quantity of faeces passed daily by men in health is about five or six ounces; so that, if we assume thirty-five ounces as about the average quantity of food taken in twenty-four hours, it may be inferred that at least thirty ounces are appropriated to the various purposes of the cEConomy. Berzelius’s analysis of faeces gives the following result:— Water .... , , 73-3 Matters soluble in water :—Bile . 0-9 Albumen 0-9 Extractive . . 2-7 ^ 5'7 Salts 1'2J Insoluble residue of the food 7-0 Insoluble matters derived from the intestinal canal, as mucus, biliary resin, fat, and a peculiar animal matter 14'0 100-0 The ashes of human faeces yield according to Berzelius and Enderlin, chloride of sodium, sulphate of soda, tribasic phosphate of soda, phosphate and sulphate of lime, phosphate of magnesia, phosphate of iron, and silica. The nature and quantity of these salts, however, vary with the quality of the food. A remarkable property of the faeces is their peculiar odour. Upon ■what this depends has not yet been satisfactorily ascertained. It seems very doubtful that it can depend on any decomposition of the bile; for under certain circumstances, when bile is deficient