CHAP, xviii,] THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN THE ANIMAL SERIES. 65 In Fishes the organ of hearing acquires a considerable increase in the complexity of its organization. It consists of a vestibular sac, with the accession of, in general, three semicircular canals. In the myxine, however, a fish of very low organiz- ation, there is only one of these canals, In the lamprey there are only two. The vestibular sac consists of a large sac (iitriculus of Breschet), into which the semi- circular canals open, and with the walls of which they are continuous, and of a small ofl’set from this larger one (the sacculus of Breschet). This apparatus is com- posed of a thin, transparent, elastic membrane. It is filled with fluid, and con- tains in each sac, either porcelainous bodies {otolithes), of beautiful structure and great diversity, as in the osseous fishes, or masses of pulverulent deposit, like pow- dered chalk (otokonia), as in the cartilaginous fishes. These, whether hard or soft, consist of carbonate of lime, and therefore may be quickly decomposed by a mineral acid. The whole of this auditory apparatus is deposited in an excava- tion of the cranial wall, which communicates with the cavity of the cranium itsell) excepting in the rays and sharks, in which it is enclosed by the cranial carti- lages. It is suspended in fluid (part, probably, of the cerebro-spinal fluid), which constitutes the analogue of the perilymph in the higher animals. In some fishes, according to Breschet, an additional offset from the larger sac exists, to which he gives the name cysticule. All these parts are analogous to the membranous laby- rinth of the higher animals, there being nothing to represent the tympanum or the cochlea. In many of the osseous fishes the auditory apparatus has no communica- tion whatever with the exterior. In rays and sharks, however, a prolongation of the labyrinth extends through an opening in the occipital portion of the skull to the surface just beneath the skin. In many fishes, according to Weber, there is an in- timate connection between the auditory apparatus and the swimming bladder, although their cavities have no communication with each other. In Amphibia, the auditory apparatus is elosed off from the cranial cavity, and is contained in the cranial bones. It consists of a vestibule with three semicircular canals. In some, there is placed external to this labyi'inth a tympanic cavity, closed on the exterior by a membrane, which is intimately united with, or a portion of, the integument, or a thin layer of cartilage. An osseous pillar (the columella) or a chain of two or three ossicles, extends from the wall of the vestibule to this tympanic membrane, analogous to the tympanic bones in the human subject. In tbe Reptiles, there is a short canal connected with the vestibule, analogous to the cochlea. The existence of this canal establishes that of a second external opening belonging to the labyrinth, or fenestra cochlea, in addition to the fenestra vestihuli. Some of the Reptiles, as the serpents, are devoid of a distinct tympanic cavity; but the existence of a columella beneath the skin indicates a rudimentary state of it. In others, as the tortoises, crocodiles, and lizards, such a cavity exists, with its usual canal of communication with the fauces, the Eustachian tube, and with a columella. The fluid of the labyrinth contains crystalline particles in place of otolithes. In Birds, the organ of hearing has the same parts as in the higher reptiles. Its labyrinth has the cochlea and semicircular canals, and the two fencstroe, and there is a tympanic cavity with a columella. The cochlea is a very slightly bent canal, divided by a membranous septum into two passages, scala vestibuli and scahi tynipani. vox.. II. p