403 CHAP. XXIX.] RATIO OF RESPIRATIONS TO PULSE. although we have a limited power of checking or accelerating them, of varying their rhythm or force, and can become aware of them by an eftbrt of attention. After holding the breath for fifteen or twenty seconds daring ordinary respiration, or forty seconds after a deep inspiration, there arises an insupportable sensation over the whole chest, concentrated under the sternum, and no etfort can maintain the interruption of the respiratory acts. This urgent sen- sation of want of breath when carried to its full extent by any mechanical impediment to the aeration of the blood, is one of the most painful and oppressive kind, and is referable to the pulmo- nary plexuses distributed on the bronchia, and perhaps on the walls of the lobular passages and cells. The impression made on these peripheral nerves by the absence of oxygen, and the undue presence of carbonic acid in the air in contact with them, is propagated to the spinal cord and medulla oblongata by the sympathetic and vagus, and there excites those combined actions of the muscles of inspira- tion which lead to the renewal of the air ; and it may be fairly con- cluded, that the ordinary motions of respiration depend on the same circle of nervous actions, which thus voluntarily arrested, become apparent by their accumulated force. (See ante^ p. 124). The mus- cular actions of expiration, which seem to follow so evenly on those of inspiration, are probably due, in part at least, to the stimulus of elongation of their fibres. When the ribs diverge, the fibres of the internal intercostals, except in front, are extended. Frequency of Respirations and Ratio to the Pulse.—The number of respirations per minute in healthy adults is from eighteen to twenty, but according to Dr. Hutchinson’s observations on more than 1700 persons (when sitting) the range in health may be from six to forty, though most persons breathe from sixteen to twenty- four times per minute. The proportion which the respirations bear to the beats of the heart is liable to much variation, but is in general not far from that of one to four. Dr. Guy has shown that the respirations are rather more frequent in the evening than in the morning, whereas the pulse is rather slower. He has also discovered that the proportion between the respirations and pulsations is mucli deranged by changes of posture, probably by these modifying the expansion of the lungs at each inspiration, without inducing any corresixjnding change in the transmission of the blood. Aerial Capacity of the Lungs, and Amount of Air breathed. When the lungs have been emptied as much as possible of air by a forced expiration they still contain a residual quantity, which may be estimated at about forty cubic inches. The mechanical