DIGESTION. [chap. XXV. 238 push water through an obstructed syringe, the piston of which is perforated in the centre, as illustrated by the annexed woodcut (fig. 168).* The contents of the intestine are moved on, por- tion by portion, much as in ossophageal deglutition. And, in their progress, they are mingled with fluids poured out from the intestinal mucous membrane. Changes in the Mucous Membrane during intes- tinal digestion. — During intestinal digestion the mucous membrane exhibits an increased nutrient activity, as evinced by a greater afflux of blood, and by free secretion, as well as absorption ; in connexion with which last function it exhibits peculiar changes, which mu.st be specially noticed. It is red, moist, and covered with a more or less abundant mucus, &c. The most remarkable change which takes place in the mucous membi'ane of the intestinal canal is observed in that portion of it which is covered by villi; that is, throughout the small intestine, especially below the point of entrance of the hepatic and pancreatic ducts. The villi are the agents of a peculiar process of absorption; and the changes which take place in them at this period appear to have immediate reference to the part which they perform in this function. They become enlarged and turgid, partly owing to an Duigram to illustrate the formation of a back- ward axial current, in. r>iii i n i* pushing water through incroased afflux 01 blood to them, and partly in an obstructed syringe ■* with a piston perforated in the centre. consequence of a change which takes place in the intra-villous tissue, whereby the component nuclei and granules acquire an increase of size, and some of them arrange themselves in lines passing from the free extremity to the base of each villus (fig. 160, a). These lines appear to proceed from an accumulation of small cells formed at the free extremity of the villus within its cavity (fig. 160, b b) : they are quite opaque, and their structure is, therefore, impenetrable to high powers in the microscope : they coalesce at the base of each villus, beyond which we have not succeeded in tracing them.f * Contributions to the Physiology of the Intestinal Canal, loc. cit., a higlily ingenious and interesting jiaper. t The phenomena here described were observed in dogs and cats fed in the ordinary way upon meat, milk, &c.