CHAP. XLII.] 609 OF WOLFFIAN BODIES. cubatioii is near its completion. It is probable that during foetal life this organ plays no very important part, either in the develop- ment or destruction of blood corpuscles; and as the gaU-bladder is found to contain yellowish-green bile, before the formation of the spleen, it is clear that this organ, at least in intra-uterine life, is not concerned in producing the colouring matter of that fluid— an office assigned to the spleen by Kolliker. Wolffian Bodies.—The Wolffian Bodies are two small glands developed at a very early period, and situated upon each side of the spine, extending upwards for some distance. They lie in front of the kidneys and supra-renal capsules, flgs. 283, 286. Each Wolffian body is provided Avith an excretory duct, Avhich opens into the cloaca or sinus urino-genitalis, whence its contents pass into the allantois. These bodies are to be regarded in the light of temporary kid- neys, and bear a similar relation to the permanent organs, that the temporary branchiae of the tadpole bear to the lungs of the fully developed frog. In osseous Ashes, the corpora Wolffiana are permanent, and constitute the kidneys of this class of animals. They are much elongated, and are composed of a number of transverse coecal tubes arranged parallel to each other. At flrst they completely conceal the kidneys, but soon diminish in size, and are at length placed below those organs, which at the same are gradually assuming importance. The Wolffian bodies are not eventually transformed into the epididymis, as some have held, or, indeed, into any other organ; but they disappear completely. The ducts of these glands, how- ever, take part in the formation of the Fallopian tube in the female, and of the vas deferens in the male; and the last traces of the temporary corpora Wolffiana are found to have some relation to the generative organs. Their remains constitute the parova- rium in the female (p. 554). From the lower part of the excretory tube, in those animals Avhose uterus is bifid, its cornua are developed. In the human subject, although at a very early period there are two cornua, these soon coalesce with the central part of the organ which is being developed at the same time, and at last all traces of them are lost. The corpora Wolffiana disappear at a much earlier period of development in the human foetus, than in the lower mammalia; but Muller has figured traces of them in an embryo about 3^