CHAP. XXV.] the bile. 2o5 in ether, which dissolves it; from this solution it crystallizes in ; plates. It exhibits, when pure, the white crystalline lamellatecl 1 structure of spermaceti, from which it differs, however, in requiring a much higher temperature for its fusion, namely 278°, and in not I forming a soap with potash. Its formula is O37H32O. Cholesterine ' is the principal constituent of the gall-stones most commonly met with in the biliary passages. The colouring-'matter of hile {cholephyrrhin, Berzelius) is one of its most interesting constituents. It varies in different animals, and perhaps in the same animal at different times according to the state of health. Like bilin it decomposes very readily, and therefore cannot be obtained pure; but it has been procured for analysis from the gall-bladder, where it is sometimes deposited as a yellow substance mixed with mucus. It is very sparingly soluble in most fluids ; scarcely at all in water, and very little in alcohol. Its best solvent is a solution of soda or potass. Such a solution, containing the colouring matter of bile, becomes green on exposure to the air, and on the addition of an acid precipitates green flocculi, which possess all the properties of chlorophyll, the green colouring- matter of plants. To this precipitate Berzelius has given the name hiliverdine. The most remarkable property of the colouring-matter of bile is the play of colours which it is capable of producing under the influence of a mineral acid, especially nitric acid. A little of this acid, added to bile, or to a fluid in which its colouring-matter is dissolved, as it often is, in urine, will change the colour into blue, green, violet, red, and ultimately brown, in a few seconds. It is highly probable, as some chemists affirm, that there exists a great analogy between the colouring-matter of the bile and that of the blood: as there is also, most likely, between these colouring prin- ciples and those of nervous substance, skin, and hair. In addition to these constituents bile contains mucus in con- siderable quantity, to Avhich probably is due its peculiar viscidity. It is derived chiefly from the numerous mucous follicles in the bile-ducts, and from the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder, and perhaps also from the debris of the hepatic cells after they have burst and yielded up their contents. According to Berzelius the mucus may be separated by filtering the bile, when a considerable portion of it remains on the filter, and if the bile which has passed through be subsequently subjected to the action of alcohol, the remaining mucus wdll separate ; or it may be precipitated by the addition of acetic acid. It is to the presence of this mucus in bile that Berze- lius attributes the inetainorphic tendency of bilin ; and he affirms