500 URINE. [chap. XXXIV, with diseases of the kidneys, and leads to the developement of coma, which is often fatal. Urea has been detected in the blood of patients suffering from cholera, and once by Ur. Garrod, in that of a gouty patient. In the serous fluids poured out in various parts of the body, in cases of kidney disease, as well as in several of the secretions, such as the saliva, &c., it has been found in large quantity. Dr. Owen Rees has met with it in milk, and the same ob- server, and Wohler, have found it in the liquor amnii, an observation, how- ever, which others have failed to confirm. It has been detected in the aqueous and vitreous humours of the eye. There can be little doubt that urea is formed in the blood by the action of oxygen upon lithic acid, creatine, and, possibly, upon some of the matters com- prehended under the indefinite term of extractive matter. In a state of health it is so rapidly separated from the circulating fluid, in its passage through the kidneys, that its presence is not easily recognized; but, in animals in which these organs have been extirpated, it accumulates in sufficient quantity in the blood to be detected with facility. Urea cannot be extracted from the muscles, although it is probable that the greater quantity excreted is formed from the effete materials produced by muscular action, since the quantity of urea is so much increased by exercise, and is also produced, al- though only non-nitrogenous food be taken. At the same time, it is almost certain, that if an amount of nitrogenous food greater than is required by the wants of the system, be taken, the excess becomes converted into urea, and is eliminated from the system by the kidneys.* Uric or Lithic Acid (C,oH4N,,Og) is always present in healthy urine, and exists in the proportion of about one part in a thousand. It may very readily be obtained by the addition of a few drops of hydrochloric acid to a portion of the urine placed in a conical glass vessel. After the lapse of a few hours, the uric acid is found deposited in the form of small crystalline grains, adhering to the sides or collected at the bottom of the glass. Uric acid pre- pared in this manner is always highly coloured, which arises from the cir- cumstance of its having a great affinity for the colouring matter of the urine. Uric acid exists in healthy urine in combination with soda, and jierhaps also with ammonia and lime; as these salts are only present in small quantity they are held in solution, but in the urine of patients suffering from fever, they often form an abundant deposit, which, in this country, is generally • It has lately been advanced by Dr. Frerichs, that in cases in which the urea is prevented from being eliminated from the blood, either by the extir- pation of the kidneys (as in his experiments upon animals), or in cases in which the functions of these organs have been impaired by disease (as in certain forms of Bright’s kidney), this substance is resolved, whilst in the circulating blood, into carbonate of ammonia ; the presence of which, according to this observer, gives rise to the coma which so frequently carries off patients in an advanced stage of renal disease. We should, however, state, that this view has not yet received confirmation from the experiments of others. That a considerable quantity of urea may be present in the blood without giving rise to any serious symptoms, we can affirm from actual expe- riment ; but, at the same time, we consider that there is suflicient evidence to prove that the coma, in many cases of kidney disease, is dependent upon the presence of urea. We have tested the breath of a few patients suffering from this form of coma in King’s College Hospital, and have also examined the blood, but have failed to demonstrate the presence of carbonate of ammonia.