THE BLOOD. [chap. XXVII. 302 examining the capillary circulation in the transparent parts of some animals, as the web of the frog’s foot, they may be seen sparingly at the margin of the current of red corpuscles, either stationary and adherent to the wall of the blood-vessels, or slowly moving forward in the layer of liquor sanguinis which is in contact with the wall, and which is thus shown to be comparatively motionless. The colourless corpuscles are much fewer in number than the coloured; it is said that they exist in the proportion of one colour- less to fifty coloured, but that in inflammatory states of the blood, the former are much more numerous, being as one in twelve. After great loss of blood, the proportion of the colourless cor- puscles is considerably increased. Fig. 180. A very important inquiry is to determine—1. The histological relation of these particles to each other; and, 2. The part which they take respectively in the vital phenomena of the blood. With regard to the first point, physiologists are divided in opinion as to whether they may be regarded as distinct and in- dependent particles, performing each their special functions, or whether the one, namely, the colourless corpuscle, may be viewed as an early or embryo condition of the red corpuscle. The weight of argument seems to favour the conclusion that the colourless corpuscles are to be regarded as an early stage of the coloured corpuscles, which are in the adult or perfect state. In the earliest pe- riods of foetal life, the blood- corpuscles, as is shown by the researches of Vogt, Kdl- liker, and Cramer, originate, in the same way as the ele- ments of the tissues, from nucleated cells, which are the same in point of con- stitution as the colourless corpuscles; with this ex- ception, that they contain Corpuscles from the bloodvcna of the cava hepatica of the 4-1^^ embryo chick on the twentieth day of incubation, a. Red OGtWGCll tll6 nUClGUS uJltl tllG blood-corpuscles altered by water, b. Blood-corpuscles ^ coherent and modified in shape by cohesion, c. a^ Large CGllj cl COllSlClGlclUlG nUUlDGr of granules, which are largest at the earliest pe- riods of embryonic life. At later periods similar nucleated cells A spherical cells containing highly refracting granules (fattyl; b, the same represented only in outline, to show their shape; c, fully formed red corpuscles. Mag. 200 diam.