397 CHAP. XXIX.] MOVEMENTS OF THE THORAX. Fig. 209. are adfled other muscles, which may enlarge or diminish the area of the cavity, and thus act in respiration, but which are, for the most part, subservient to the general muscular movements of the body. The thorax is capable of enlargement in all its dimensions, in height, depth, width. Its vertical extent is increased by the eleva- tion of the ribs and the widening of the intercostal spaces, but chiefly by the descent of the diaphragm. Its antero-posterior and transverse diameters are increased by the elevation of the ribs, which carry forwards as well as raise the sternum (and the lower end of that bone usually a little more than the upper, in conse- quence of the greater length and obliquity of the lower sternal ribs), and which also seem to undergo a slight rotation on a line joining their two extremities, by which their middle part is raised and slightly removed from the median plane of the thorax. These are the principal modes provided in the mechanism of the thoracic walls, for its dila- tation in breathing. It should be added that during the advance of the sternum the arch of the ribs is widened, chiefly by a torsion of their carti- lages, and that the elastic rebound of those parts is a powerful agent in ex- piration. Observed Movements.— All the foregoing modes Diagrams showing the extent of antero-posterior movement nf pnlnrfrf>mAnf /vT +1ip in ordinary, and torced respiration in male and female. “The ui ciiicugumtiiiu ui uuj back is supposed to be fixed, in order to throw forward the fhnrnY opf in rlpnn in movement as much as possible.” The black line indicates, by i/iiuiciA. civ/t 111 uccp lu- its two margins, the limits of ordinary inspiration and expira- snirifimi Imf in nrrlinnvv Ipthe body comes up to the dotted S|mcU,luil, uui lU uruiliaiy line, while in/orced c.r/«‘ra/iora, it recedes to the smallest space breathing, there are con- iJt. Hutchinson, siderable differences according to sex and age. In men an ordinary inspiration is attended with very slight elevation of the ribs, not more than one-twentieth of an inch, according to Dr. Hutchiusoirs