CHAP. XXXII.] 455 GLAND-CELL. In tlie accompanying drawing of one of the cieeal tubes of the liver of the eray-fish (astacus affiuis), after fio- 216. Leidy the gradual transition from the granular matter at the bot- tom of the follicle to the perfeetly formed eells u^hich are being dis- ehargedfrom its summitis well seen. In the glandules of Peyer^ al- ready described (ante p. 233), it would seem that vesieles form un- derneath, hut in immediate con- tiguity with, the mucous mem- brane, and becoming filled with glandular contents, having the na- ture of nuelei, exhibit a great proneness to burst, and liberate their eontents, perhaps periodi- eally, on the free surfaee of the membrane. The ova, too, are very generally elaborated in the first instanee in a matrix, or stroma, placed beneath, and not upon, the surface from whieh they are to be diseharged. But, notwithstand' ing these diflFerenees, which will he further considered, it must be borne in mind that the gland- eells, or secreting elements, in the true glands, are always so placed as to be able to discharge them- ^ T .1 • 1 i. „ 4-1,^ “• Csecal biliary hllje of Cray-fish. At/, e, c, 6. selves or tneir procluets on me are shown cells in different stages as they advance , n from tile lower part towards the outlet. After outer surtace. Leidy. Of the Gland-Cell.—The gland-cells select and separate from the blood the substances which form their secreted product. These ele- ments form, in faet,in a certain sense apart of the food or pabulum of these secreting cells, which is set free when the eell has aiTived at ma- turity, either by its rupture or by its eomplete detachment from the surface upon which it has grown, or, as occurs in other in stanees merely by transudation through its walls upon one side, while new matter is supplied to it from the plasma upon the other. Tims the function of secretion bears a certain analogy to nutrition. The cells in both processes seleet from the blood eertain elements adapted for their