CHAP. XXVIII.] NERVES OF THE HEART. 341 ]3etween the superficial aiul the deep or reflected portion of the ventricular fibres are some which have been described as the proper fibres of the ventricles ; these pass round each ventricle in a circular direction, some obliquely, some at right angles to its axis; they form a sort of hollow cylinder for each ventricle, which is attached above to the fibrous zone of the auricles, and is open below towards the apex. On the right side a smaller number of circular fibres embrace the infundibular portion of tbe ventricle, attaching them- selves to the fibrous festoons of tbe pulmonary artery. Of the Muscular Fibres of the Auricles.—In the auricles we find a common and a proper set of fibres. The former may be traced along the anterior surface of both auricles, embracing them like a belt, but not extending round to the posterior surface. The latter are arranged in several circular or spiral bands, some of which spring from the auriculo-ventricular zone, and return to it again, and envelope the auricle before and behind, passing sometimes at right angles to it, sometimes obliquely; others pass round the auricle in a horizontal direction and parallel to the auriculo-ventricular zone. Each of the venous orifices of the auricles is surrounded by a series of circular fibres (spbincter- like) which are continued, as already referred to, to a considerable distance along the trunks of the veins, retaining in this latter situa- tion just the same character as at the auricle itself. This is a good situation for seeing the branching and anastomosis of the fibres. Nutrition of the Heart.—The heart is nourished by blood derived from the aorta. Its arteries, the right and left coronary arteries, are the first branches which spring from the aorta. They leave that vessel just beyond the margins of the semilunar valves. The right passes along the circular groove between the auricles and ventricles, and sends a branch down the posterior median groove to the apex; the left passes along the anterior median groove, ana- stomosing at the apex with the latter branches. Corresponding with the small size and the oblique direction of the heart’s fibres are an extreme closeness and an everywhere oblique sloping of the capillary network. From this, venous radicles are formed at various points and unite into large veins which are fonnd in the grooves of the heart accompanying the arteries ; these veins terminate in the coronary vein, which is lodged in the right portion of the circular groove, and opens into the right auricle close to the orifice of the inferior vena cava. Nerves.— J he nerves of the heart are derived from the cardiac branches of the piieuinogastric nerve, and from the symjiathetic.