412 RESPIRATION. [chap. XXIX. in a state of chemical combination, we should not have been able to obtain evidence of its presence by this process. Besides much carbonic acid, oxygen, and a little nitrogen, are held in solution in blood. With reference to the oxygen, it cannot be doubted that part is in cbemioal combination with the constituents of the blood cor- puscle, and part in a state of simple solution. The chief agents in effecting the absorption of gases in the blood are undoubtedly the blood corpuscles, for it has been clearly proved by Davy and others, that defibrinated blood possesses the power of absorbing gases in a greater degree than blood serum. Magnus found that blood was capable of absorbing 1^ times its volume of carbonic acid gas. From the researches of Professor Lehmann upon the crys- tallizable contents of the blood corpuscle, originally discovered by Otto Funke, w^e are led to conclude that the colouriug matter of the blood is chemically affected by oxygen and carbonic acid gases. Lehmann has showm, that if oxygen is allowed to pass through defibrinated blood slowly for fifteen minutes, and is follow'ed by the transmission of a current of carbonic acid for five minutes under the influence of light, these crystals are formed in larger quantity, and more rapidly, than if the cai’bonic acid is passed through the blood first. These crystals are composed of a definite chemical compound; and there can be little- doubt that the influ- ence w'hich the gases exert upon its ci’ystallizing properties are of a chemical natui’e.* It was formerly supposed that the oxygen of the air combined with the carbon of the venous blood in the pulmonary capillaries, and that the carbonic acid eliminated from the system was formed at the pulmonary smface; but later researches have showm, that this gas exists pre-formed in the blood, and is therefore only exhaled from the fluid contained in the vessels of the lungs, a view which was first advocated by Lagrange and Hassenfratz in 1791. It has been found that animals will give up carbonic acid -when placed in atmospheres which do not contain any oxygen, a fact which could not be accounted for upon the supposition that this gas was formed by the combination taking place in the pulmonary organ. Again, the presence of both free oxygen and carbonic acid * For mucli interesting matter upon the subject of blood-crystallization, the reader is referred to Lehmann’s “ Physiological Chemistry,” 1853, trans- lated by Dr. Day, Cavendish Society, vol. iii.