492 KIDNEY. [chap. XXXIV. over which they spread. Fig. 237. From these arteries smaller branches are given olF, which ascend in the cortical substance nearly to the sur- face, and, in so doing, give off, on all sides, a number of small terminal twigs, the afferent vessels of the Mal- pighian bodies. Arrived within the capsule, the small afferent vessel at once divides into four or five branches, each of which again divides dichotomously. The small capillary vessels form loops, which project towards the opening of the uriniferous tube. The blood is re- ceived from these vessels, which lie towards the outside of the tuft, by branches of the efferent vessel which converge towards the more central part of the tuft to form one trunk, which leaves the Malpighian body, and soon Malpighian tnft, from near the base of brcaks Up luto a plcxUS of Capillary one of the medullary cones, injected , • i i i without extravasation, and showing the VCSSClS, lU thC mCShCS Ot WlllCh the The terminal arterial twigs efferent vein branching like an artery as , -i -i • it runs into the meduliary cone. a. Ar- tUOeS llC. torial branch, af. The afferent vessel. •.! .i • j i i. gx i • • j m, m. Malpighian tuft, c/. The efferent ''vith thcir appended tutts, whcu injccted me*duiiary‘ cone.''’XKume“r'Ibou^ *70 with vcrmiliou, liavc been compared not diameteis. inaptly to a bunch of currants. The size and complexity of the Malpighian bodies differ much in different animals, according to the activity of the function they Fig.2z%. are called upon to discharge. The ves- sels present fewer convolutions, the tufts are smaller, and their arrange- ment much simpler in those animals, in which the urine is almost of a solid consistence. Com- pare the complicated and 237, with the few and simple convolutions in birds, fig. 238. By reference to the folloAving table, it will be seen that the diameter Prom the parrot; h jccted by tlie artery, a, a, a. Terminal branches of the arteiy. u /, af, a f. Terminal twigs of the artery, d. Dilatation of the terminal twig on entering the Jlalpighian capsule, m. This dilatation more completely filled, showing its convoluted form; and, ef, if, the efferent vessel, c. Tlie Malpigliian cap.sule filled by extravasation from the contained vessel, and the tube t likewise filled. Magnified about 80 diameters. arrangement in the horse and other mammalia in figs. 236