283 LYMPH AND CHYLE. CHAP. XXVI.J thoracic duct of a small dog, ia the course of a few minutes, as much as will fill a watch-glass. If absorption is actively going on at the moment, a ligature on the duct will often be followed by a rupture of some vessel below by the onward pressure of the current. So the lymph, in some instances, has been collected in considerable quantity in a short space of time. Geiger, from an open lymphatic on the foot of a horse, collected from three to five pounds of lymph daily. Bidder has performed some experiments on cats, from which he estimates that a quantity of lymph and chyle, together equal to one-sixth the weight of the body, or the whole weight of the blood, enters the circulation every twenty-four hours. But it must be borne in mind that this does not all form new supply, the lymph being, probably, in large measure derived from that liquor sanguinis which has escaped from the capillaries into the interstices of the tissues, and which cannot re-enter the capillaries in a direct manner. Mechanism of Absorption.—In considering this part of the subject the following points should be remembered :— 1. The process of absorption ill living bodies implies imbibition by their tissues and subsequent transmission of the imbibed fluid by the vascular channels to distant parts. 2. As regards imbibition, it is a phenomenon of a purely physico-chemical nature, and occurs in inorganic as well as organic bodies, and in organic bodies both when dead and living. It depends mainly on the force of adhesion between a fluid and a porous solid, by which the fluid is drawn into the interstitial passages of the solid. 3. The fluid chiefly concerned in this process in all animal and vegetable bodies is water, which, as already stated, has a close affinity for tlieir tissues and forms an essential ingredient of them, without which they, for the most part, lose their vital and physical properties. 4. Tlie various other substances which are imbibed in living bodies are taken up in a state of aqueous solution, such as gases, albumen, fibrine, salts, &c. 5. Where the fluid is rendered complex by holding in solution various substances which have different degrees of the force of heterogeneous adhesion for each other, for the water they are dissolved in and for the porous solid, the phenomena of their transmission are also complex : various preferences, if we may so express it, exist; one ingredient penetrates rather than another, and the results depend very much on the chemical qualities of the elements concerned. 6. The laws relating to the mixture of different fluids also exert an important influence on the phenomenon. Eeferring to a former page (vol. i. p. 53) for a brief notice of the phenomena of endosmose and exosmose, as observed by Dutrochet, we may conveniently proceed with the consideration of the mechan- ism of absorption in the living body under the following heads. Absorption., as influenced by the Qualities of the Fluids.—It was u 2