[chap, XXVI. 288 ABSORPTION. general indications of the lines in Avhich further investigation may be pursued with advantage. Applying them to the mechanical arrangements provided in the living animal for this function, it is plain that they have a nearer reference to the capillary blood-vessels than to the lymphatics. In both we have a simple membrane of extreme thinness, through which the absorbed fluid has to pass, and in doing so it must neces- sarily obey those laws which form the proper subject of experi- mental physico-chemical inquiry. But in the blood-vessels, the fluid on the side towards which absorption tends is already in motion by a mechanical force, the heart’s action, and the absorption is accompanied with a contrary current of exosmose ; whereas in the lymphatics, the internal fluid appears to have no motion hut what is derived from the same force on which the endosmose depends, and we have no evidence of any outgoing current. In these re- spects the absorbents resemble more nearly than the capillaries, the spongioles and absorbent vessels of plants. Function of the Ahsorhents.—A few words may he added on the use of the absorbents in the oeconomy. The chyliferous vessels probably have the same office for the intestinal tissues as the lymphatics in other parts; but besides this they are largely de- veloped, and specially adapted by their mode of origin on the mucous surface, to take up a portion, at least, of the food, after it has been rendered capable of absorption by the action of the pan- creatic secretion. This portion appears to he pre-eminently the fatty or oily, which, as far as experiments and observation have yet determined, is almost exclusively absorbed by the lacteals. It is chiefly in containing so much more fat that chyle differs from lymjfli. The lymphatics cannot yet be said to have their office at all definitively ascertained, yet it is not difficult to assign them a ^jart with some degree of probability. It appears that they form an interlacement among the capillaries in the interstices of most of the organs and tissues of the body, and contain a fluid not dissimilar in kind from the liquor sanguinis, though more dilute. They cannot he engaged in distributing new material to the organism, because their structure adapts them only for removing fluid from the tissues, and pouring it into the blood-vessels, and because the current within them is unequivocally in that one direction. Thus the fluid they contain must enter them from the interstices of the tissues, having been ultimately derived either directly from the capillaries, or Indirectly from them through the tissues. It seems not im- probable that the liquor sanguinis effused through the capillary