DIGESTION. 188 CHAP. XXIII. brane in the vicinity. The pellet of food having arrived near the oesophagus, is projected into it by the contraction of the middle and inferior constrictors, the upper portion of that canal being dilated by its entrance. It might be imagined that a process which may thus be artifi- cially divided into consecutive stages, and which combines so many elaborate and harmonized actions, would occupy something more than a single second in its performance. It is, however, quite mo- mentary. The movements cannot be performed separately by any voluntary control; the food once willingly thrown by the tongue beyond the isthmus of the fauces cannot be recalled, but is necessa- rily carried forward to the stomach—a beneficent provision, in which the physical supersede in a great degree the mental nervous actions, to ensure the integrity of the vital function of respiration. On the action of the nerves, however, we need add nothing to wdiat has been already stated (see vol. i. pp. 333.345,346; and vol. ii. pp. 117. 120.) The cesophagus is a tube continuous with the pharynx, fitted to convey the food past the organs of respiration and circulation in the thorax to the stomach below the diaphragTn. It first lies upon the vertebrm and inclines slightly to the left, but afterwards, in its course through the posterior mediastinum, it advances in front of the descending aorta, and occupies the median line. It is surrounded in its whole length by a lax areolar tissue, which permits its dilata- tion and contraction during the passage of the food. It has a strong muscular coat composed of two layers, an outer, of longitudi- nal fibres, which commence from the cricoid cartilage ; and an inner, of circular fibres: both these spread out upon the stomach, and he- come much thinner on that organ. The fibres of both layers are of the striped kind in the upper part and for a variable way down, some being often traceable as low as the diaphragm. In the mid- dle region, unstriped fibres are mingled with the others; and in the lower part they are either the chief or only constituent. It has also a mucous lining, continuous with that of the pharynx and sto- mach, but different from both, being covered with a thicker and more opaque epithelium, resembling cuticle, and thrown, when empty, into longitudinal folds by the help of an abundant areolar tissue between the coats. Among the creases, chiefly in the lower third, are scattered mucous glands, which open on the surface, and serve to lubricate the canal during the passage of food. The cuti- cular lining of the oesophagus is changed abruptly at the cardiac orifice of the stomach into the glandular lining of the latter organ. Thus the cesophagus is organized as a simple conduit. It has con-