CHAP. XX. 124 INNERVATION. nerve is of vast importance to the function of respiration. Section of one nerve produces no etfect upon the respiratory organs, either structural or functional. Dr. Eeid made careful examinations to ascertain if, after cutting out a large portion of one nerve, the lung of that side suffered any alteration in its texture, but he could not detect any. But when both nerves have been divided above the giving off of the pulmonary branches, the most severe dyspnoja comes on, the respirations are generally much diminished in num- ber, the animal breathes just like an asthmatic; after a short time the lungs become congested and cedematous, and the bronchial tubes filled Avith a frothy serous fluid. When a piece has been cut out of each nerve or the cut ends of the nerves are kept apart, the animals never survive beyond three days, and during the whole of that period they suffer severe dyspnoea. If the cut ends of the nerves be kept in contact the animals will live ten or twelve days. It may be inferred from Dr. Eeid’s experiments that section of the vagi nerves does not destroy that peculiar feeling of distress (besoin de respirer), which is occasioned by the Avant of fresh air in the lungs. He proved that animals, in which the vagi nerves had been cut, struggled violently, and seemed to suffer greatly, Avhen the access of air to the lungs was cut off by compressing the trachea. In such cases as that just described, the only channel through Avhich sensitive impressions could be conveyed fr-om the lungs to the brain is the sympathetic system, and it is to the afferent power of the sympathetic nerves and possibly to the same power in the cutaneous ramifications of the fifth and of the spinal nerves, that Ave must attribute the imperfect excitation of the respiratory act, Avhich, under these circumstances, takes place. The phenomena Avhich folioav section of both vagi are doubtless to be explained by the imperfect manner in which the centre of respiration is excited, after the destruction of the influence of these nerves consequent on their section. The movements, after the sec- tion, are partly of the voluntary kind, produced by the sense of distress occasioned by the imperfect supply. The asthmatic state which also follows the section may perhaps be in part caused by the irritation of the central portion of the nerve, exciting the medulla oblongata and the extremities of the motor nerves of respiration. Lastly, the oflfice of the gastric branches of the vagi nerves, ap- pears from Eeid’s experiments to be chiefly to control the move- ments of the muscular coat of the stomach. Mechanical irritation of these nerves causes sIoav and vermicular contractions of this tunic.