INNERVATION. CHAP. XVII. 28 mor, tlie deepest of those media. It may be said to commence at the foramen in the sclerotic and choroid b}' which the optic nerve enters the eye, and to terminate by a finely jagged border (the ora serrata) at the hinder border of the striated part of the ciliary body. It is thicker behind, in the deepest part of the globe, and gradually thinner forwards. Of a pinkish gray tint, and semi-trans- parent when fresh, the images formed upon it may be seen through it from behind, if the sclerotic and choroid coats be fir.st carefully removed. AVhen thrown into accidental folds, it resembles in ap- pearance the vascular gray substance of the cerebral convolutions. The exquisite function performed by this nervous membrane, its expanded form and separability from other structures, have always made it an object of peculiar interest with iihysiologists, who have not unreasonably expected that important secrets of nervous func- tion might be disclosed by an accurate insight into its structure. Whatever the conclusions to be drawn, it is certain that this structure is elaborate and complex, and worthy of an attentive study. The first part of the retina to be described is the fibrous gray layer, which forms the immediate continuation of the optic nerve, and which is seated on its inner surface. This is a layer of fibrous character, radiating from the end of the optic nerve, and apparently consisting of the tubular fibres of that nerve deprived of their white substance ; that is, being no longer tubular and white, but solid and gray, and united together more or less into a membrane. This at least seems to us to be certain, that the white substance of Schwann does not exist in the nervous substance of the retina, but ceases as the nerve perforates the sclerotic. It has been particularly de- scribed as existing in the retina of the rabbit; but the fact seems to be, that in this animal the nerve does not end in the retina till some way within the globe, for, after bifurcating and spreading out as a white streak within the choroid, the bundles of nerve-tubes suddenly lose their white lustre, and assume the appearance of the gray fibres of the layer now under consideration. These bundles, both in animals and man, may be seen to anastomose in a close plex- iform manner, especially near the optic nerve, and finally constitute a thin sheet, which becomes thinner and less fibrous as we trace it forwards, until at length it can be no longer discerned. This fibrous gray layer of the retina is united to the hyaloid membrane, containing the vitreous humor, by a layer of nucleated cells almost perfectly transparent, and sometimes very difficult of discovery on that account. It is to be remarked, that the fibrous gray layer is i { i i i c i '/ S, V 1 I \ s i i' V ' (