352 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. onwards or from the heart, and backwards or to the heart. Its course, in the latter direction, is speedily checked by the sudden and forcible closure of the aortic valves under the pressure of the regurgitating current. Therefore, the great mass of the blood rushes onwards towards the capillary system,—propelled first by the heart’s impulse, and, secondly, by the elastic reaction of the arterial walls. This elastic reaction of the parietes of the arteries does not come into play until the heart has ceased to contract and begun to dilate. It is, therefore, synchronous with the diastole of the heart, and corresponds with it in duration; so that while the ventricle is inactive the blood in the arteries is still being pressed upon by the reacting arterial walls. Thus the blood is ever moving onwards throughout the arterial system, during the diastole, as well as during the systole of the heart; and the jerking impulses commu- nicated to it by the successive contractions of the ventricle are gradually converted into that continuous uniform forward move- ment, which is observed under ordinary circumstances in the ulti- mate arterial ramifications, the capillaries and the veins. An analogous application of the reacting force of an elastic agent to convert a jerking movement into a continuous stream is found in the mechanism of the fire-engine, and of the organ. In the one water, in the other air, is forced into a chamber in which air already exists. This air undergoes compression by the sudden introduction of a new quantity of water or air. Its elasticity causes it to react, and thus to supply an expulsive force during the subsidence of the action of the piston in the one case, and of the bellows in the other.* The heart, by its propulsion of blood into the arterial system, not only dilates the arteries, but elongates them likewise. This is generally better seen than their dilatation, but it is most apparent in arteries which are curved. Under the influence of the heart’s * This explanation of the influence of the elastic reaction of the arterial wall in promoting a continuous stream, and converting the jerking current of the blood in the large arteries into a uniform one in the small ones is very commonly attributed by modern writers to Weber. English physiologists ought not to have overlooked John Hunter’s remarks (on the Blood, &c. 4to ed. p. 129,) nor Sir C. Bell’s observations in his “ Animal Mechanics,” p. 44. But the following passage from Hales will show that that able observer held much the same views long prior to either of those last named. * * * “ The blood in the arteries,” he says, “ being forcibly propelled forward, with an aceelerated impetus, thereby dilates the canal of the arteries, which begin again to contract at the instant the systole ceases; by which curious artifice of nature, the blood is carried on in the finer