DEVELOPMENT. [chap. XLni. 618 The specific gravity of this specimen was 1009‘2, and it con- tained in 1000 parts— In 100 parts solid matter. Water .... ... . 982-00 Solid matter . 18-00 Organic matter .soluble in water . 6-11 33-94 Fixed alkaline salts .... 8-09 44-94 Albumen, earthy salts, and fatty matter 3-80 21-11 Dr. Prout found sugar of milk in tke liquor amnii of a cow, at an early period of pregnaney. Umbilical Vesicle.—We have alluded to the mode of formation of the umbilical vesicle in page 584. Our friend, Mr. Grainger, has made some very important observations on its minute struc- ture and functions in the chick. At a very early period, the lining membrane of the umbilical vesicle presents the appearance of a highly organised mucous membrane, the surface of which is perfectly smooth. After a time, a number of folds, which were termed “ valves” by Haller, make their appearance. By the ninth day, these are considerably developed, and project into the yolk. The folds become more complicated and numerous; and by the nineteenth day, arc as much as of an inch in depth in the deepest part. Upon the folds, and in the intervals between them, grayish-white corpuscles are very numerous. Mr. Dalrymple has shown that these cells may be washed away from the vessels beneath, of which he has made very beautiful injections. The yellow appearance of the vessels, whence they have been called vasa lutea by Haller, is due to their being entirely covered with these yellowish corpuscles. The,surfaces of the folds of the membrane are highly vascu- lar, andthemajorityof the capillaries spread out upon them are probably venous. Thus the surface of the umbilical vesicle is enor- mously increased in extent, in a manner precisely similar to that in which the mu- cous membrane of the intestines is ex- tended by the arrangement of the valvulse conniventes. Such is the character of the vascular surface by which all the nutritive Folds of the vitellarj- membrane r ,i n i i i and vasa lutea (after Mr. DairjTn- constituents 01 the yoiK are absorbecl, veskif'°From till wliicli are afterwards carried to the sys-