AP. XXXIV. 504 URINE. [CH too slight to be recognised. This circumstance would account for the result of several experiments we have ourselves made upon this point, in which we have found no diminution in the quantity of phosphates. To sum up, the kidneys appear to be special organs for the removal of effete material produced in the vital processes from the system, and they serve as channels for the ehmination of water and certain saline matter, as well as excess of nitrogenous material which is not required for the maintenance of the tissues. The chief constituents of the urine consist of compounds re.sult- ing from the action of oxygen upon the albuminous or alhed substances; and in urea and uric acid we have probably examples of the highest state of oxidar tion which the chemical elements of the tissues are capable of undergoing, and urea may be looked upon as the last of a series of compounds resulting from the successive action of oxj'geu upon those bodies which stand above it on this scale. The fixed salts which occur in urine also exist in a highly oxidized state. There can be little doubt, that the highly complex substances entering into the formation of the tissues, by chemical action taking place in the organism, become resolved into bodies of a more simple composition, until they are eliminated in the form of urea or some alhed compound, the elements of which are so loosely combined, that by external cmcumstauces alone new sub- stances are formed of a stiU simpler composition, such a.s carbonic acid and ammonia. In these, however, the elements are united with such force, that it is only by most powerful chemical action, or by the still more powerful influence of the vital properties of plants, that they can be separated from each othei’, and again applied to the building up of those highly complicated substances of which the tissues of animals consist, and which, by their vital processes, are again reduced in complexity as before. The more actively the vital phenomena are performed, or, in other words, the greater the rapidity with which the disintegration and repair of the tissues takes place, the larger is the quantity of urea excreted from the system. With this increase of the urea, there is certainly a corresponding increase of the sulphates, and perhaps also of the phosphates. If, however, the activity of these changes be interfered with, as from impairment of the respiratory apparatus, or from other causes, as might be expected, we find an increase of that constituent which stands next above urea in the descending series of compounds resulting from oxidation, namely, litliic acid. This finds its way out of the system in the form of lithate of soda, forming the amorphous sediment generally known as lithate of ammonia, but which really consists almost entirely of lithate of soda. Under similar circumstances, we often meet with a deposit of oxalate of lime. The urine of the active carnivora contains, like that of man, a large quantity of urea; on the other hand, the urine of serpents and many other reptiles consists almost entirely of uric acid in combination with ammonia. The urine of birds much resembles in character that of serpents, which appears somewhat to be opposed to the doctrine we have been endeavouring to inculcate, as the vital changes are carried on with greater activity in this than in any other class of animals; but, on the other hand, it may be argued, that the demand for oxygen is so great in birds, and their vital functions so actively carried on, that the exten- sive respiratory apparatus necessary for the supply of sufficient oxygen to convert all the uric acid into urea would be incompatible with the lightness of their bodies, which is so necessary for fliglit; while tlie removal of the