THE SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. 125 CHAP. XX.] Section of them may cause in the first instance vomiting and loath- ino- of food, and it may retard the digestive process, but it does not put an end to it. For not only do animals, with the vagi cut, eat food from day to day, but, if killed at a sufficient period after digestion, their lacteals are found filled with chyle; affording un- equivocal evidence of the persistence of the digestive process. Nor does the section of these nerves destroy the secretion of the gastric fluid, for the matter vomited affords evidence of its having been mingled with acid, and the fact of the formation of chyle proves that stomach digestion must have taken place. Muller and Dickhoff, in their experiments upon section of the vagi in geese, found the fluid secreted by the stomach distinctly acid. In Dr. Reid’s experiments, the ordinary mucous secretion of the stomach was found in its usual quantity, and when arsenic was administered to the animals, the mucous secretion was quite as abundant as in others in which the vagi nerves were not cut. The few pathological facts which can be collected of diseased states of the vagi nerves are confirmatory of the conclusions deduci- ble from anatomy and experiment. Several Instances are recorded of loss of voice and dyspnoea, symptoms resembling those of chronic laryngitis, caused by the compression of the recurrent by an aneu- rismal or other tumor. The violent convulsive cough, which accom- panies enlarged bronchial glands, is probably due to the irritation of the pulmonary branches of the vagi nerves. Hooping-cough is probably an affection of the vagi nerves by a peculiar poison. Dr. Ley attributed the phenomena of laryngismus stridulus to the irri- tation of enlarged cervical glands, affecting the recurrent nerves, and there seems no doubt, that, although the symptoms of this disease occur more frequently as part of a peculiar exhausted state of system, they may be, and are, produced sometimes by the local irritation of such glands. The diseases in which this nerve is involved are chiefly those which affect its gastric and pulmonary branches. The sympathy which all practitioners admit to exist between the digestive and respiratory organs is explained by the anatomical relations of this nerve. Asthma is essentially an irritation of the-centre of respi- ration and of this nerve; this disease almost invariably begins by some deranged state of digestion, or by the introduction of some poisonous material from without; some very subtle mateiial suspend- ed in the air, and brought by inhalation into contact with the res- piratory surface, for example, the minute particles which pass off from powdered ipecacuanha, or from hay. Asthma and intermittent