372 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. the most energetic affinity, will move with the greatest velocity, and may even drive the other liquid entirely before it.” In plants, the rise of the ascending sap from the ground, results from the attractive force of the spongioles. These appro- priate certain elements contained in the fluid, and exercise a more energetic attraction on a new supply, which pushes the former before it. Thus the sap ascends to the leaves, pushed on by succes- sive new portions attracted to the spongioles. At the leaves, a new force of a similar kind, but due to the action of light, draws it on, and causes it to push before it the newly formed latex or elaborated sap, the flow of which is promoted by its affinity for the vegetable tissues which it permeates. In the systemic circulation of animals, the arterial blood has a great affinity for the tissues to which it is brought by the capillary system. This force of attraction draws on the blood from the arterial side of that system, with a power which helps to propel on the de-oxygenized blood into the venous radicles. In the pulmonary circulation, venous blood is conveyed to the air-cells by the pulmo- nary arteries. This kind of blood has a great affinity for the oxygen which is being continually brought to those cells by the movements of respiration. It is therefore forcibly attracted to the air-cells, and, being charged with oxygen, is pushed on by the succeeding portions of venous blood, which the same force is constantly attracting. It is by the influence of an attractive force, such as Professor Draper describes, that we can best explain the continuance of a complex circulation in many of the lower animals in which no central organ of impulsion exists, as in some of the Polypifera, and of the Articulata. In the sponge the remarkable currents of water which flow through the various channels that penetrate its substance, are maintained without any special propelling organ whatever. And the beautiful cyclosis in Ohara and Valisneria affords a striking instance of a circulation without ms a tergo. In the vascular area of the egg a circulation exists before a pro- pelling organ. And in the acardiac fcetus a similar circulation exists, although in general it has such a connexion with a second perfect fcetus that the heart of the latter may influence the circula- tion of the former. But that a foetus may grow to a considerable size, and have its various tissues well developed without any con- nexion with the twin foetus, by means exclusively of a circulation of its own, of which a heart forms no portion, or upon which it can exercise but a very remote influence, is shown by the case