STRUCTURE OF THE ABSORBENTS. 273 CHAP. XXVI.] of a single layer of extremely delicate nucleated particles, first no- ticed by Henle. They are usually spindle-shaped, and fitted side-ways to each other (fig. 169 B). The valves (fig. 170 0) are formed by a process of fibrous membrane standing oft’ into the vessel, probably with a covering of the epi- thelium. They are mostly in pairs, of a crescentic shape, the convex edge at- tached, the concave free, and when in action consti- tute a perfect barrier, the wall of the vessels immedi- ately above them beingbulged into a sinus, so as to give the canal a beaded appear- ance when distended. Mr. Lane has observed that some of the valves are single and circular, with a central per- foration, and therefore in- complete — while others are unequal in size. Contractility of the absorb- ent vessels. — This depends on the contractile tissue of their proper coat. The pro- perty may be demonstrated by mechanically irritating a large vessel, such as the thoracic duct, in an animal just killed — it undergoes slow contraction. The ab- sorbent vessels continue to propel their contents, even when the current from the primary networks is arrested by pressure, and this they Fig. iCg. A. Longitudinal wavy fibres on the inner surface of the contractile transverse fibres of the thoracic duct of thehorsej —Magnified 80 diameters. B. Stratum of nucleated epithelial cells lining the lym- phatic vessels.—From a large lymphatic on the trachea of a horse. Magnified 320 diameters. A. One of the inguinal lymphatic glands injected with mercury, a. Afferent lymphatic vessel from the lower c.x- tremity. b. Efferent vessel. Others are also seen. B. One of the superficial lymiihatie trunks of the thigh. C. One of the femoral lymphatic trunks, laid o|ien longi- tudinally to display the valves within it. c. Sinus between the valve and the wall of the vessel, d. Surface of one valve, directed towards the opposite, c. Semicircular at- tached margin of the valve. After Mascagni.