DIGESTION. [chap. xxiv. with that laxer stratum which separates the mucous from the mus- cular coat. The stomach tubes have a basement membrane, and contain an epithelium altogether different from that which has been just de- scribed. Its particles are of the glandular variety, are rounded in shape, without obvious walls; their contents are darkly granular, often mixed with oil globules, and their nucleus is less distinct. The tubes are so narrow that the particles seem to fill them, and oblite- rate their cavity, except near their orifices, where they empty them- selves into the cells. Towards their blind extremities they often seem to be simply a series or pile of epithelial particles; and this has led some anatomists to deny that they are tubes. The existence, however, of a basement membrane convinces us that they are to be regarded truly as tubes, permanently laid down in the tissue of the stomach, for the origination and discharge of the materials of their peculiar epithelial particles on its inner surface. The tubes proceed in sets, corresponding to the cells into which they open; those of each set being enclosed in a common envelope of nucleated tissue, like the matrix of the kidney and some other glands. This firm investing structure is attached on the one hand to the dense layer on which the compound membrane rests, and on the other to the ridges between the cells; and it sends delicate processes between the indi- vidual tubules of each set, and between their branchings, so as to sustain every portion in its proper place. Between the sets of tubules the larger vessels run up to the ridges between the cells, and every tubule is invested with capillaries, which take for the most part an upward direction, and are cut across with the tubules in a transverse section of the latter, (fig. 155, b, d.) We have met with no tubular nerve fibres in the mucous membrane of the sto- mach ; but it is highly probable that nucleated nerve fibres run among the tubes, though their want of characteristic features ren- ders it difficult to positively assert their presence. The description now given will hold good for the whole lining of the stomach, except near the pylorus. Here, in many of the lower animals which we have examined,—for example, in the dog, and, it may with probability be inferred, in man also,—a change occurs in a very gradual manner, but evidently of an important kind. The mem- brane is of a paler tint, and its cells seem not to terminate at once in the true stomach tubes already described, but are prolonged into much wider cylindrical tubes, lined with the same columnar epi- thelium, and descending nearly or altogether to the deeper sur- face of the compound membrane. For the most part, these prolong-