488 KIDNEY. [chap. XXXIV. Fig.2Z2. been, proved in several ways. In specimens wliicb have been carefully injected from tbe artery, not unfrequently it will be found that the coloured material escapes and extravasates from the vessels of the tuft into the cavity of the capsule, and thence runs down the tube (Fig. 231). In disease, it is not at all uncommon to find the capsule of the tuft, and the tube itself, injected with blood, in consequence of htemorrhage from the vessels of the tuft. The difiSeulty of injeeting the capsule by foreing injection from the pelvis of the kidney, cannot reasonably be urged as an objec- tion to this view, for all who have had any experience in in- jecting the minute ducts of glands, wiU agree that it is in very few instances indeed that the injection can be forced to tbe termination of the tube. The epithelium within it is apt to be forced towards its cascal extremity, and by its accumu- lation renders such a result impossible, while, in the ma- jority of cases, the force requi- site to overcome the resistance to the passage of fluid, along a highly convoluted tube in the reverse direction to that which ,r. . its contents naturally take, is Malpighian tuft; kidney of the Proteus angiuneiis, . \ showing vessels lyirg within the capsule, the inner mOl’e than Sufficient tO CaUSC itS surface of which is entirely covered with a single layer of tesselated epithelium . a. Uriniferons tube. runturC. b. Capsule, c. Tuft of vessels which were injected in ^ . the preparation from which this drawing was taken. TllC kidnCV of the llOrSC IS a/. Tei-minal twig of the artery, e/. Efferent vessel. " Magnified about 50 diameters.—A small portion of tlie VCrV favourable foT dcmOU- capsule, with its epithelial lining, is represented in . the smaller figure, magnified 215 diameters. strating thcSC pOintS, and the double injection composed of acetate of lead and bichromate of potash will be found to furnish the most satisfactory results. In the kidney of the frog, or of the newt, the continuity of the capsule with the basement membrane of the tube is exceedingly distinct and easy of demonstration. The tuft of vessels is seen lying naked within the capsule, uncovered either with epithelium or by any reflection of the basement membrane composing the capsule. In the frog, the neck of the tube close to and some way within the capsule is lined with ciliated epithelium, which con-