598 DEVELOPMENT [chap. xlii. by tbe external angular processes of the frontal, the small wings of the sphenoid, and the frontal bone; its Immal arch hy the tympanic portion of the temporal bone, and hy the articular and dental portion of the inferior maxilla. The body of the rhinencephalic or nasal vertebra is represented hy the vomer; its neural arch hy the ossa plana of the ethmoid, and l)y the nasal bones; its hcemal arch, by the palatine, pterygoid, and malar bones, hy the squamous and zygomatic portions of the temporal bones, and by tlie superior maxillary and intermaxillary bones. In thus briefly describing the manner in whicli the cranial vertebrae are constructed^ we feel great regret that our limited space will not permit us to enter more at length into the beautiful and well-kno’wn discoveiies of Professor Owen in this department. We cannot too strongly recommend the reader to consult upon this important subject, Professor Owen’s “Archetype Skeleton/’ and his “ Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton.” Development of the Face and Visceral Arches.—The Hsceral caAoty in the upper part of the embryo, at a very early stage of develop- ment, is bounded above by the cerebral capsule; and below, and at the sides, by the anterior visceral arch. Eeichert has shown that this arch becomes bent upon itself, and from it ape formed above the angle, the superior, and beloAV the angle the inferior, maxillary apparatus. The superior maxilla grows upwards, and unites with a promi- nence Avhich is seen in the centre of the forehead, the frontal pro- cess of Von Baer — a space being left between the two superior maxillfe, which becomes the nasal cavity. Beneath this, the tAvo bones are connected together by the partition which forms the palate, and which does not appear for some time. In animals, besides the maxillary bones, there are a pair of narrow bones between them, extending from the interval between the lower portion of the nasal, and the ascending process of the superior maxilla. These are the intermaxillary bones, which exist in the hu- man foetus in a rudimentary condition. They appear to be formed partly from the nasal process of the forehead, and partly from a por- tion of blastema which is detached from the lower jaAv, to which Reichert gives the name of intermaxillary rudiment. In man this bone is not dcA^eloped; but in fishes and amphibia it contains teeth. The intermaxillary bones differ, therefore, in their origin, from the maxiUa;, and are probably develoj>ed from centres inde- pendently of the latter. In the monstrosity familiar to us as hare- lip, the superior maxillte and palate bones of opposite sides do not