DEVELOPMENT. 584 [chap. XLl. embryo itself taking the form of a boat with its eoneave surfaee downwards. This is the first appearauee of a viseeral eavity, bounded by the ventral laminae, in whieh the ribs and the trans- verse proeesses of the vertebrae are formed. That part of the most superfieial layer of the germinal mem- brane, or serous lamina, immediately surrounding the embryo, forms a prominent fold which soon rises above the surface. Ac- cording to Reichert, however, the fold is formed from the most superficial layer of the membrana intermedia, and is only covered by the investing membrane. Each fold approaches that on the oppo- site side, until, by their approximation and communication, a shut sac is formed, into which fluid is poui’ed. In this fluid, the embryo floats. Its open ventral surface gradually becomes closed, until at last it is connected with the yolk only by means of a very narrow pedicle or cord [umbilical cord), which consists of a narrow tube passing from the intestine to the yolk, with certain vascidar trunks, through which the nutritive matter absorbed by the vessels ramify- ing upon the surface of the yolk is carried to the embryo. Of this attenuated cord connecting the embryo with the yolk sac or umbi- lical vesicle we shall speak at some length hereafter. Thus is formed the amnion to which we shall have to allude more particularly in Chapter XLIII. Such are some of the most important changes occui’ring during the earliest period of incubation in the chick. We shall now con- sider the nature of those which take place in the mammalian ovum. Changes in the Mammalian Ovum. The essential changes which manifest themselves in the early period of the development of the mammalian embryo are very similar to those which we have briefly described as occurring in the bird’s egg; but in consequence of the small amount of yolk in the former compared with the latter, and therefore the greater depend- ence of the embryo for its nutrition upon external sources, certain differences are observed in the development of the mammalian ovum. It has been already stated (p. 574) that by the time the mammalian ovum has reached the uterus, the process of seg- mentation is complete. It is also paler and more transparent. The germinal vesicle had disappeared previous to segmentation;