19 CHAP. XVII.] TUBES OF THE CORNEA. Fig. 111. ture, passing from one to the other, and making it impossible to trace any one lamella over even a small portion of the cornea. The resulting areolse, which in the sclerotic are irregular, and on all sides open, are converted in the cornea into tubular spaces, which have a very singular arrangement, hitherto undescribed. They lie in superposed planes, the contiguous ones of the same plane being for the most part parallel, but crossing those of the neighbouring planes at an angle, and seldom communi- cating with them (fig. 110). The arrange- ment and size of these tubes can be shown by driving mercury, or coloured size, or air, into a small puncture made in the cornea. They may also be shown under a high power by moistening a thin section of a dried cornea, and opening it out by needles. The tissue forming the parietes of these tubes is membranous rather than fibrous, though with the best glasses a fibrous striation may be frequently seen, both in the laminaj separating the different series of tubes, and in that dividing those of the same layer fi:om each other. By acetic acid, also, the structure swells, and displays corpuscles resembling those ap- parent in the white fibrous tissue. Such is the lamellar structure of the cornea, which makes it so much easier to thrust an instrument horizontally than vertically into its substance. The tubes or elongated spaces of which we have spoken, are not distended with any fluid, but are merely moistened in the same way as the areolse of ordinary areolar tissue. A perfectly fresh and transparent cornea is rendered opaque by pressure, but it regains its bril- liance on the removal of the compressing force. Some have supposed this to result ■om the expulsion of fluid from between of fibres into ... 1 1 .1 1 1 . . . layers of the cornea proper, Its JammaS ^ but that the opacitv is O wins' j"iongwhich,the nuclei are apparent. . 1,1 n a a. Posterior clastic lamina, e. Pos- simply to a derangement of the elementarv *o"o''fpitheiium.—Magn. so diam. ... The posterior epithelium, 0, seen parts Ol its structure is plain from the “ootlon; p, seen in face.—Jlagni- n , ,, , ,, ^ hod 300 diameters. tact, that the .same phenomena are exhi- A. Vertical section of the Human Cornea. ^ a. Conjunctival epithelium. b. Anterior clastic lamina, from which