162 CHAPTER XXIIT. OP DIGESTION. PHEPARATOBY PROCESSES ; VIZ. PREHENSION, MASTICA- TION, INSALIVATION, DEGLUTITION : THE ANATOMY OP THE ORGANS CONCERNED IN THESE PROCESSES.* In the present chapter we shall consider the preliminary stages in the function of digestion, under which head may be included all those which precede the entrance of the food into the stomach. Of Prehension, or the taking of food into the mouth, little needs be said. It is performed chiefly by the hand, that wonderful instru- ment of man’s lower instincts as well as of his higher attributes. The lips and cheeks, as well as the anterior teeth, and the tongue, are also concerned in this function. The Ups are endowed with great sensibility, derived from the su- perior and inferior maxillary divisions of the fifth pair of nerves, and are covered with largely developed papillm of touch, which receive an abundant supply of blood from the coronary arteries. Along their margin the skin becomes continuous with the mucous mem- brane of the digestive apparatus, which, within these parts, as well as over the rest of the mouth, the pharynx and oesophagus, as far as * In entering on a eonsideration of the alimentary proeesses, a few words may be eonveniently introdueed regarding the general anatomy of the mucous system, a term under which we include the skin, mucous membranes, and true glands, all of which are continuous with one another, and composed essentially of similar parts. The skin and the glands pertaining to it, as well as several parts of the mucous membranes, have been already minutely described in treating of the organs of sense. It only remains, therefore, to speak of the great internal mucous tracts, with their associated glands. Tlic alimentary mucous membrane commences at the lips, and lines the passages traversed by the food from the mouth to the anus. The principal glands whose ducts open upon it, are the mucous and salivary glands, the pancreas, and the liver. Besides these, its thickness is made up, in the stomach and small intestines, of an infinite series of tubular offsets, vertically arranged, pouring their contents on its free surface, and forming an involuted or cojnpound membrane, or a diffused or mem- branous gland. Tlie respiratory mucous membrane begins at the nostrils, sends processes to the olfactory, the optic, and the auditory organs, and lines the air- passages to their terminations ; numerous mucous glands occur in this tract. Lastly, the genito-urinary mucous membrane commences at the genito-urinary orifices, lines the excretory passages pertaining to both functions, and is the essential consti-