CHAP. XXX.] THEORY OF ANIMAL HEAT. 427 To explain the prompt oxidation of the earbon and hydrogen within the body^ Liebig has pointed out that the oxygen is pre- sented to them not in a gaseous but in a liquid or solid form—that in the innumerable ehannels of the eireulation^ these several ele- ments are not merely brought together in a very subdivided state, but everywhere iu elose proximity to membranous surfaees, me- ehanically adapted to favour the oceurrenee of chemieal union. Moreover, that the carbon and hydrogen are not oflPered to the oxygen in their pure and simple state, but in combinations already existing and ready to be dissolved. He also insists, with great force, on the analogy of these actions to those promoted by the presence of a body ab-eady undergoing oxidation. For example, "when weak brandy is allowed to trickle over shavings in a closed vessel, through which a feeble current of air at from 93° to 97° F. circulates, the alcohol in the brandy remains unchanged; in spite of the greatly increased surface, no oxidation, no formation of acetic acid takes place. But if to the brandy there be added one hundred thousandth part of vinegar, beer, or wine, in the state of acetification, that is, of oxidation, the alcohol disappears with great rapidity, and is converted, by the absorption of oxygen, into an equivalent quantity of acetic acid. In the vessel, the surface of the shavings themselves very soon passes into the state of oxi- dation, and from this period forth, the brandy is acetified withoftt the addition of a ferment: the w^ood, being in the state of decay, eremacausis, or slow combustion, plays the part of a ferment. These vinegar-producing vats give an idea, if only a rough one, of the process of oxidation going on in the animal body. As in the body, so also in these vessels, a temperature higher than that of the surrounding media is kept up, without the aid of external heat.”* These actions of contact or catalysis may well be supposed to play a large and most important part, not merely in the production of animal heat, but also in all the chemical changes which are ever going on in the body, from the first reception of food to the final expulsion of its elements in other forms of combination. Great obscurity, however, still hangs over the series of transforma- tions Avhich the food undergoes in its passage tlirough the body. It has been seen that both arterial and venous blood contain oxygen and carbonic acid gas in a state of solution j but into what form of combination the oxygen first enters, or from what imme- diate source the carbouic acid is derived is as yet matter of con- * “Animal Chemistry,” p. 34, 3rd edition, Part I. F V 2