INNERVATION. 144 CHAP. XXI. very vigorou.s. There is less agreement in the statements of the results obtained by different experimenters as to the sensibility of these nerves, as indeed is very commonly the case, when the ques- tion is respecting sensation ; but the well-known occurrence of pain in parts supplied only by the sympathetic, is alone more conclusive as to the existence of sensitive fibres in that nerve, than the results of any experiment on a brute animal. How exquisite are the suf- ferings of patients labom-ing under colic, or the passage of a gall- stone, or of a renal calculus ! It is plain, then, that the sympathetic nerve contains both motor and sensitive fibres. An appeal to common experience shows us, that the latter cannot be very numerous, as parts supplied by tbe sympathetic nerve are not, in the healthy state, highly sensitive, and pain is felt in them only under the influence of great irri- tation. And with regard to the motor fibres, it shows that they are not at all, or at most to a very trifling extent, under the influ- ence of the will. It is true that the will may be brought to bear upon muscles supplied by the sympathetic, by directing it simul- taneously upon other distinctly voluntary muscles. This is well illustrated in the case of the iris ; no effort, however great, if directed solely upon the iris, will cause that muscle to contract, but if the voluntary influence cause a simultaneous contraction of the internal rectus muscle of the eye, contraction of the pupil will take place upon each adduction of the eyeball. It is highly probable that the increase in force and in fi'e- quency which takes place in the heart’s action, during active exer- cise, is to be explained on the same principle; and that a strong effort of the will directed to the abdominal muscles, may excite an increased peristaltic action of the intestines. Muscles supplied by the sympathetic nerve, although under ordi- nary circumstances referrible to the category of involuntary muscles, must not then be considered as absolutely and entirely removed from the influence of the will. A very striking peculiarity, dependent in part probably upon the anatomical arrangements of the sympathetic, consists in the rhythmical nature of the movements of parts which derive their sup- ply of nerves from this source, of which the movements of the heart and the intestinal canal afford good examples. And it is an im- portant feature of these actions that they take place even wdien the parts are disconnected from the main portion of the sympathetic system. It is well known that the heart’s action will go on for a considerable time after it has been removed from the body; and