[CIIA1>. XX. INNERVATION. 114 both the power of irmstication was destroyed on the same side, and the sensibility of the lower part of the face and tongue was lost. If the nerve were divided in the cranium, the whole side of the face and forehead, with the eyeball and nose, became insensible, and the muscles of mastication were paralysed. Irritants might then he applied to the eyeball, without exciting winking, or causing pain, and strong stimulants might be introduced into the nostrils without creating the least irritation. When the trunk of the nerve within the cranium of an ass was irritated, the jaws closed with a snap from the excitation of the motor fibres, which are distributed to the muscles of mastication. The conclusions which we draw from anatomy and from experi- ment are confirmed by the histories of cases in which the fifth nerve had been diseased. In such instances we may observe the most marked separation of the motor and sensitive power, when the larger portion only or the two superior divisions of the nerve are affected, and we find both motion and sensation destroyed when the whole trunk of the nerve is involved in the disease. It is not uncommon in such cases to find the eyehall totally insensible to every kind of stimulus, the nose quite unexcitable by the fumes of ammonia, or the most pungent vapours, and the mucous membrane of the mouth so insensible to the contact of foreign matters that a morsel of food will sometimes remain between the gum and the cheek until it has become decomposed. The insensibility of the eyeball exposes it to the permanent contact of irritating particles of dust, &c., which excite destructive inflammation of its textures. The whiskers may he pulled forcibly without sensation. The muscles of mastication become wasted and inert, as shown by the distinct depression in the regions of the masseter and temporal muscles, but the superficial muscles, on which the play of the features depends, preserve their natural condition. The fifth nerve may, therefore, be regarded as the motor nerve in mastication, and the sensitive nerve to that great surface, both internal and external, which belongs to the face and anterior part of the cranium. From its great size, and the large portion of the me- dulla oblongata with which it is connected, it may excite other nerves which are implanted in that centre near to it. Thus it may be an exciter to the portio dura, as in winking—or to the respira- tory nerves, as in dashing cold water in the face, or in sneezing. Its lingual portion distributed to the mucous membrane of the tongue is at once a nerve of taste, touch, and common sensibility, and its connexion with the papillary structure of the red parts