NINTH NERVE. 109 CHAP. XIX.] the deep surface of the tongue, being closely related to the internal carotid artery and the jugidar vein, and winding round the external I carotid, in its course to the upper and anterior part of the neck. Immediately after its emergence it forms anastomoses with the vagus nerve, the superior cervical ganglion, and with the cervical plexus, and then it gives off, 1. The descending branch, which I forms remarkable anastomotic arches with branches of the second I ^ and third cervical nerves, either within or in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein. From the convexity of this arch or these arches, there pass branches to the sterno-hyoid, I and sterno-thyroid muscles and to the anterior belly of the omo- hyoid. 2. It gives nerves to the thyro-hyoid, genio-hyoid, hyo- glossus, and styloglossus muscles. 3. On the inferior surface of I the tongue it breaks up into its terminal or glossal branches which pass into the muscular structure of the tongue. As the hypoglossal nerve crosses the hyoglossus muscle it forms an anastomosis with the lingual branch of the fifth pair. Function of the Ninth Nerve.—As this nerve has no other con- nexion than with muscles we cannot regard it in any other light than as a motor nerve. The muscles to which it is distributed are those of the tongue, and as this is the principal nerve to these muscles, we may justly regard it as the motor nerve of the tongue. The other nerves of the tongue, the lingual branch of the fifth and the glosso-pharyngeal, are obviously traceable to the mucous mem- brane. In the lower mammalia the ninth nerve is distributed precisely as in man, and it is proportional in size to the muscular activity of the tongue. Numerous experiments have been made on this nerve. Section of it on one side paralyses the motor power of the tongue on that side. And galvanic irritation of it throws the muscles on the same side into convulsive action. I Several instances have been observed of tumours compressing this I nerve, and causing paralysis of the muscles of the tongue on the f same side. The tongue participates in the hemiplegic paralysis |[ which results from an apoplectic clot in the brain, or other extensive I disease of that organ, along with all those parts whose nerves are I implanted in some part of the extended centre of volition, and are f ordinarily excited by a mental stimulus. In such cases the loss of [ power in the tongue is usually indicated by its deviation to the I paralysed side in its protrusion, though occasionally the tip is turned 1 towards the sound side.