INNERVATION. [chap. XVI. 6 detached, we observe projecting tubular fragments, similar to the cuticular lining drawn out of the sweat-ducts of the skin, when the cuticle is removed after maceration (figs. 79 and 80). In fact, glands apparently identical with the sweat-glands exist in this region in great numbers. They dip down in the recesses of the submucous tissue, among the ramifications of the olfactory nerves; and their orifices are very easily seen, after the general brown coat of epithelium has been detached, lying more or less in vertical rows, the arrangement of which is probably determined by the course of those nerves beneath. They become more and more sparing towards the limits of the olfac- tory region. The epithelium of these glands is bulky, and like that of the sweat-glands, contains some pigment. As the duct approaches the epithelium of the general surface, its wall becomes thinner and more transparent; and, in its subsequent course upwards, it is difll- cult to be traced, for it does not appear to be .spiral, or its particles to differ from those which they traverse. We have sometimes seen rods of epithelium, apparently hollow, left projecting from the base- ment membrane, after the brown epithelium has been washed away; and these are perhaps portions of the excretory ducts of these glands. A good injection of the nasal organ in the fcetus, both of man and animals, will display a multitude of minute capillary loops upon the surface of the olfactory region, bearing a close resemblance to those of rudimentary papillae. These loops were first pointed out to us two years ago by Mr. Quekett in the fmtal pig, and also in the human foetus at its full term ; and so clearly did they seem to indicate the presence of true papillae in this region, that we made repeated and close examinations of the recent organ, in order to expose their structure, supposing them to be concerned in the sense of smell. These researches, pursued on adult specimens, have been hitherto fruitless ; at least, we have found no other evidence of papillae than delicate hollow epithelial processes remaining, after a gentle current of water had washed away the principal portion of the brown epithelial investment—an appearance too ambiguous to be spoken of with confidence. In the human foetuses we have injected, the loops are .such as are represented above (fig. 105). The convexity of the loops presents a decided dilatation, being from swro to iski of an inch wide, while the diameter of the capillary on either side is only Fig. 105. Dilated loopings of the eapillaries of the olfaetory region of the Human Foetus, in- jected and magnified. -• 1r I r~ r id riiriMniM raifciiMiiifcfMMiiTliiri'infli.