DIGESTION. 210 [chap. XXIV. ficial digestion, that, by gently shaking the tubes in which the pro- cess of digestion was going on, it became accelerated. This accords with what daily experience points out to us, namely, that agreeable and lively conversation during a meal, or gentle exercise after one, invariably promotes the primary stages of digestion. Violent exercise after meals retards digestion, most probably by preventing the constant action of the gastric fluid upon the pieces of food in it—the movements of the body causing frequent change of place in the morsels of food. The use of alcoholic stimulants also retards digestion, by coagu- lating the pepsine, and thereby interfering with its action. Were it not that wine and spirits are rapidly absorbed, the introduction of them into the stomach in any quantity would be a complete bar to the solution of the food, as the pepsine would be precipitated from solution as quickly as it was secreted by the stomach. Absorption by the Stomach.— An important question, to which as yet we can give no certain reply, is as to what becomes of the food after it has been duly dissolved by the fluids of the stomach. When we find how completely albuminous and fibrinous substances are dissolved by digestion in the natural or artificial gastric fluid, it cannot be doubted that they are in a state fit for absorption while yet in the stomach, nor can there be any good reason to deny that a considerable quantity must be absorbed without passing further on in the alimentary canal. The great rapidity with which liquids of a simple and limpid kind, or the aqueous solutions of certain salts, as iodide of potassium, the alkaline carbonates, &c., find their way into the blood, denotes that this must take place very quickly after they have been swallowed, and that the bloodvessels of the stomach must be the principal channel through which they effect their entrance into the circulating system, and it scarcely admits of doubt that the dissolved aliments are removed through the same channels.* The venous blood of the stomach passes to the vena portse. Hence, matters absorbed by the sanguiferous system of the stomach pass by a very direct route to the liver, and probably excite that gland to increased secretion for the purposes of digestion in the small intestine. The gastric fluid dissolves perfectly only the fibrinous and albumi- nous animal substances, and probably also the glutinous or azotised portion of vegetable food ; we must suppose, therefore, that it is only * We have detected iodine in the saliva and urine in twenty minutes after a solution of a few grains of iodide of potassium in a large quantity of water had been swallowed.