CHAP. XXIV.] KATE OF STOMACH DIGESTION. 209 years ago by Sir B. 0. Brodle, and with great kindness placed at our disposal by him, we find the following statement: “when dogs were fed on lard, the lard passed into the small intestine unchanged.” It would seem to be the most reasonable conclusion which we can deduce from the preceding statements, that in man and the carnivora the fluid secreted by the stomach during digestion simply dissolves animal and vegetable substances of the azotized kind, without altering their chemical constitution, leaving amylaceous, oily, saccharine, and the allied substances but little or not at all acted upon. TAe Chyme.—The mass that is contained in the stomach after dig’estion has been going on for four or five hours, and which is commonly known by the name of chyme., consists of aliments dis- solved, or softened and prepared for solution or other change by the gastric juice. As they are mostly of the same kind, this mass presents a homogeneous appearance, except when substances are present which either require a longer sojourn in the stomach or are only digestible by some lower portion of the intestinal tube. Bate of Stomach Digestion.—The process of stomach digestion is a slow one. In the artificial digestions above referred to, it took from eight to twelve hours to produce any marked effect upon the pieces of meat and albumen submitted to the action of the digestive fluid. This, however, is much longer than the natural process. According to Dr. Beaumont’s researches upon Alexis St. Martin, it took three or four hours before the stomach became empty after a meal, consisting chiefly of azotized food—and his tables show that the mean time required for the digestion of the principal animal substances in common use, such as butcher’s meat, fowl, game, was from two hours and three-quarters to four hours. In experiments on dogs, it has been found by most experimenters that no great advance in the solution of the contents of the sto- mach is made under from two to four hours. Gosse, who possessed the power of disgorging the contents of his stomach by previously swallowing a quantity of air, found that no change had taken place in the food after it had remained half an hour in the stomach : after the lapse of an hour he found the food much softened—but not reduced in weight: while, after two hours, it was not only much softened but considerably reduced in quantity, so that he could not return from his stomach more than half what he had taken.*' Purkiuje and Pappenheim found, in their experiments upon arti- * (Euvrcs dc Spullunzani, par Sencbier, t. ii.