405 CHAP. XXIX.] CHANGES IN RESPIRED AIR. and the movements which regulate the supply of air, we may proceed to consider the changes which occur in the air during its sojourn in contact with the respiratory surface, and also the corresponding changes in the blood circulating there. Changes in the respired air.—The air consists of a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen, in the respective proportions of about 20'81 and 79-19 in 100 parts by volume, with the addition of a very minute portion of carbonic acid gas, not exceeding one part by I volume in 2000. It contains watery vapour in variable quantity, according to temperature and other circumstances ; and also non- estimable quantities of other gaseous and volatile substances, of no account in relation to the respiratory function. In air that has been breathed, the temperature is found to have assumed nearly or quite that of the blood, the quantity of moisture has nearly reached the point of saturation, the proportion of oxygen has diminished, and that of carbonic acid has increased, while that of nitrogen has slightly increased, or has undergone little change. A small quan- tity of animal matter has also been received from the air-passages, as is proved by the brown colour assumed by sulphuric acid, through which the respired air is made to pass. Aqueous vapour exhaled.—It results from the most careful ex- periments, amongst which may be mentioned those of Valentin and Brunner, and of Moleschott, that the air expired is usually nearly saturated with moisture, and that the quantity of water thus escaping from the system in twenty-four hours, may be estimated in temperate climates at from twelve to twenty ounces. It is, of course, impossible to ascertain, nor is it important, bow much of this quantity is derived from the respiratory surface, strictly so called, and how much from the moist and vascular surfaces of the nasal, pharyngeal, and bronchial passages. Exhalation of Carbonic Acid by the Lungs.—It is easy to show that carbonic acid gas is exhaled from the lungs, by breathing into lime-water, which thus becomes turbid by the formation of inso- luble carbonate of lime ; or into a phial, where a taper is then at once extinguished. In 100 parts by volume of expired air (as an average of many experiments). Carbonic Acid. Coathupe found 4-02. Valentin and ) Brunner . ) . 4-38. Vierordt 4-33. Tliomson . 4-16.