THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chai>. xxviii. 340 branching of each fibre, and tlie fusion of neighbouring branches. A somewhat similar brandling and anastomosis of the ultimate muscnlar fibre has been observed at the surface of the tongue, an organ of which the muscular structure is not unlike that of the heart. The complicated disposition of the fibres of the heart on different planes has, no doubt, the object of strengthening the walls of its cavities, and insuring a uniformity and syuchronousness in the contraction of all its fibres. This arrangement belongs jiarticularly to the ventricles, where such a mode of action is most needed. It may be best demonstrated on hearts which have been subjected to long boiling. By this process the fibre is hardened, and may be readily torn in the direction of its course, and thus, by a little careful manipulation, the connection of the fibres and bundles of fibres may be unravelled. The ventricles are covered by a thin layer of fibres common to both. These may be traced, apparently emerging from the apex and spreading out over the anterior as well as the posterior surface of the heart. At the apex these fibres pass in to form a connection with the fibres which form the innermost layer of the wall of each ventricle ; from the same point these superficial fibres pass obliquely, those of the posterior surface from right to left; those of the anterior surface rather in the direction from left to right. At the transverse fissure they sink in to attach themselves to the fibrous zone which separates auricles from ventricles. According to some anatomists (Reid and others), many of the superficial fibres do not pass beyond the anterior longitudinal fissure, but sink into and become incorporated with those of the septum. If the fibres of the apex be traced inwards, they are found to penetrate so as to form the innermost layers of the walls of the ventricle, contributing likewise to form the carnese columna), and becoming attached to the fibrous structures of the ventricle, both to the chorda} tendinese and the auriculo-ventricular zone. Some of these fibres serve to connect opposite walls of the heart: thus the deep layer of fibi’es of the posterior wall of the heart receives fibres from the superficial layer of the anterior wall, and reciprocally the superficial layer of the posterior wall contributes to the deej) layer of the anterior. But others of the suj)erficial fibres are continu- ous with the deep fibx’es of the same wall. These are tlie fibres which in passing from the superficial to the deep portion of the wall, make a remarkable turn in figure of 8, of which the lower portion is very small, as described and figured long ago by Lower.