DIGESTION. CHAP. XXII. 152 to US to be eminently practical—and on that account vve recommend it to the attention of our readers. As water enters so largely into the constitution of the body, being essential to the integrity and to the vital action of the solids, and as it forms the principal part of the blood, it is necessary that all animals should be supplied with liquid food in some shape. Accordingly, water, either alone or holding important nutrient elements in suspension or solution, forms part of the food of all animals—the aqueous group of alimentary materials of Prout. A large number of substances derived from the vegetable kingdom, constitute the saccharine group of Dr. Prout. These are character- ized by being composed of carbon, united to hydrogen and oxygen, in the proportions in which these latter elements form water; the proportion of the carbon varying from 30 to 50 per cent.* This group comprehends sugars,.starch, gums, vinegar. These substances are contained in vegetables of various kinds, sometimes forming their principal constituent, and at other times combined with other nu- trient principles. The oily or oleaginous group of alimentary substances comprehends all those substances whose composition consists of olefiant gas and water. It includes the various fats and oils, as well as alcohol. It resembles in ultimate constitution the saccharine group; the pro- portion of carbon in the various substances contained in it varying from 60 to 80 per cent. A fourth group, the albuminous^ is made up of all those substances which contain nitrogen—such as fibrine, gelatine, albumen, caseine, vegetable gluten. All the materials which make up this group are derived generally from the animal kingdom, with the exception of the last, which is contained in great abundance in wheat; similar, if not identical, principles exist in vegetables. Wheat, indeed, con- sists of two substances—one referrible to the saccharine group, the other to the albuminous, the former consisting of starch, the latter of gluten. This fact was recognized more than a century ago (an. 1742) by Beccaria, who assigned the glutinous portion to the nourish- ment of the nitrogenous tissues of the body.*f* In milk we find a natural combination of all the various substances employed for nutrition—and it is a fact of the highest interest that this product of animal secretion, elaborated for the nourishment of the young, should contain one or more substances for each of the above-named groups of alimentary materials. * See Front’s papers in the Phil. Trans. t Dr. Thomson, Med. Chir. Trans. 1846.