106 [chap. XIX, INNERVATION. the nerve where it is joined by the Vidian which comes through the hiatus Fallopii, intumescentia genuformis. A question arises as to the nature of this swelling; is it a ganglion, or, is it merely the re- sult of the separation of the fibres of the nerve at this situation? We have failed to satisfy ourselves by microscopic examination of the existence of vesicular matter in it, but we have found a large number of gelatinous fibres in it, as well as of tubular fibres.* At this swelling the facial forms a communication by means of the greater superficial petrosal nerve with Meckel’s ganglion, and by the lesser superficial petrosal nerve, with the otic ganglion; a third branch less constant than these two, is distributed to vessels and dura mater on the surface of the petrous bone. As it lies in the aqueduct of Fallopius, the facial nerve gives olf the foliowfing branches. 1. A branch to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis. 2. A twig to the stapedius muscle. 3. The chorda tympani. 4. An anastomotic twig with the auricular branch of the vagus nerve. The third stage commences at the stylomastoid foramen; here the nerve passes obliquely through the parotid gland, in the sub- stance of which it divides into its terminal branches. Immediately on its emergence from the stylomastoid foramen, it gives off. 1. The posterior auricular, or auriculo-occipital, distributed to the small muscles of the ear, and the occipital muscle. 2. The stylohyoid branch to the stylohyoid muscle, 3. The submastoid branch to the digastric muscle. And lastly, it divides into two branches, the cervico-facial, distributed to the platysma, and to the muscles of the lower lip and chin, and the temporo-facial, which is distributed to the orbicular muscle of the eyelids, the corrugator supercilii, and the muscles of the nose and upper lip. The plexiform distribution of these nerves on the face forms the well known pes anserinus. The facial nerve anastomoses freely with the superficial temporal, fron- tal, infra-orbital, buccal and mental branches of the fifth pair, and with branches of the cervical plexus. Function of the Facial Nerve.—Referring to the anatomy of this nerve, we find it distributed by the vast majority of its fibres to muscles, and those minute branches, respecting the ultimate destina- tion of which some doubt exists, may be, and probably are, distri- buted to muscular fibres. The muscles which are supplied by the facial nerve are chiefly those upon which the aspect of the coimtenance and the balance of the features depends. The power of closing the * Morganti has lately published an elaborate paper, in wliich he maintains the ganglionic character of this swelling.—Annali Univ. di Medieina, 1845.