CHAP. XVIII.] THE SPIRAL LAMINA OF THE COCHLEA. 77 -Fiff. 137. Being' uncertain respecting the ofhee of this structure, we shall term it the denticulate lamina (figs. 137, and 138), from a beautiful series of teeth, forming its outer margin, which project free into the vestibular scala, and, in the first coil, terminate almost on a level with the margin of the osseous zone, but more within this margin towards the apex of the cochlea. They thus constitute a kind of second margin to the os- seous zone, on the vesti- bular side of the true margin, and having a groove beneath them, which runs along the whole lamina spiralis, in ; the vestibular scala, im- mediately above the true st margin of the osseous section of tUecocUear canal, where the scalse are equal, fznno Thp infprvnl« vestibuli. st. Scala tympani. o. Osseous zone of zone. Xll6 iniGl Vdio lamlna spiralis, rf. Denticulate lamina. Membranous zone. tween the teeth are to be ".oehTeS" OQOT1 .rvTi onv B. Margin of osseous zone, more magnified, so. Scala vesti- Seen on tueil uppet SlU- Scala tympani. g. Groove, between d, denticulate fnop rm tlipir frpp prlo'P lamina, and m, membranous zone springing from edge of the icll/C, uii Liicit ilcc CLigc, osseous zone. n. Cochlear nerves and capillaries, distributed on and also within this the tympanic surface of the osseous zone. groove, so that the teeth are wedge-shaped, and their upper and under surfaces, traced from the free edge, recede. The free projecting part, or teeth of the denticulate lamina form less than a fourth of its entire breadth, and in the remainder of its extent it appears to rest on the osseous zone; seen from above, after the osseous zone has been rendered more transparent by weak hydro- chloric acid, (fig. 138) rows of clear lines may be traced from the teeth at the convex edge, towards the opposite or concave edge of the lamina. These lines appear to be a structure resembling that of the teeth themselves, and they are separated from one another by rows of clear, highly refracting granules, which render the intervals very distinct. These intervals, as seen in the figure, are more or less sinuous and irregularly branched. The denticulate lamina, thus placed on the vestibular surface of the osseous zone, is above, and at some distance from the plexus of the cochlear nerves, which lies near its tympanic surface. The vestibular