295 CHAP, xxvn.] THE BUFFY COAT. only of serum and red particles. The coagulation of the fibrine of the blood is one of those ultimate facts in physiology which we must he content to observe and to describe, but of the cause of which we are likely to remain ignorant. The luffing and cupping of the blood has long attracted the notice of observers, and is regarded by many practical men as an indication of a state of inflammation in some part of the body at the time of the abstraction of the blood. The immediate cause of this pheno- menon is explained with the highest probability, as follows, by Dr. Babington :— “ The blood, consisting of liquor sanguinis and insoluble red particles, preserves its fluidity long enough to permit the red par- ticles, which are of greater specific gravity, to subside through it. At length the liquor sanguinis separates by a general coagula- tion into two parts, and this phenomenon takes place uniformly throughout the liquor. That part of it through which the red par- ticles had time to fall, furnishes a pure fibrine or bufled crust, while that portion into which the red particles had descended furnishes the coloured clot.” The following experiment, made by the same ingenious observer, illustrates the truth of the explanation given by him. “ Take two similar tall jars or phials, each capable of holding about four or five ounces, and let one of them be half-filled with olive oil; draw the blood of a healthy subject into each. That which flows through the oil will be found to have a layer of Liquor Sanguinis on its surface, which will form a buffed crust, while there will be none upon that which is received in equal quantity, and in other respects under the same circumstances, into the empty jar.”^ According to the observations of Nasse, and of Mr. Wharton Jones, the red particles of blood which is disposed to become buffed and cupped, exhibit a remarkable tendency to cohere in the form of rolls, like piles of coin, and this probably facilitates their precipitation to the lowest part of the coagulating mass. The circumstances which favour the formation of the huffy coat may be any or all of the following. 1. Slowness of coagulation ; 2. Increased weight of red corpuscles; 3. Diminished specific gravity of serum, which obviously would have a corresponding effect to the preceding; 4. A great diminution in the proportionate quantity of the red corpuscles, or an increase in that of fibrine, and of colourless corpuscles. The occurrence of the cupped and buffed blood, after great hemorrhage, or in cases of ansemia, is very * Med. Chir. Trans., and Cyclop. Anat., art. Blood.