546 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. [cHAP. XXXVII. performed, the tubes are seen to he entirely occupied by cells, in which the spermatozoa are ultimately developed. When semen is about to be formed, the following changes may be observed to take place in the epithelium. The cells become detached from the basement membrane, in- crease in size, and assume a more spherical form, the contents at this time being entirely granular; at length, however, several clearer points or nuclei are seen in the interior of the cell, which is noAv passing down the tubule towards the vas deferens, while it is succeeded behind by the formation of new cells. The nuclei in the interior enlarge, and are often seen to contain nucleoli. The parent cell, having much increased in size from the develop- ment of its nuclei into cells, appears to undergo no further change; but in each of the contained cells, which vary much in number, one spermatozoon is developed on the inner wall, in the form of a spiral filament, as was first described by Kblliker. Tlie sperma- tozoon escapes into the interior of the mother cell by the rupture of its development cell. Others are in like manner set free ; and they arrange themselves in a parcel, which may ultimately consist of a vast number of separate spermatozoa, with all the heads arranged in one direction and the tails in the opposite one. The cause of this arrangement is probably somewhat similar to that which determines the blood disks to run together, and assume the form of a small pile of coins. There appears to be a sort of attraction existing between the different spermatic filaments for each other. The contained spermatozoa are at last set free by the rupture of the parent cell, and then separate. These changes are usually not completed until the cells arrive at the epididymis; so that in the seminal tubules cells alone are found, while in the vas deferens we only meet with perfectly developed spermatozoa. Spermatozoa.—The spermatic filament or spermatozoon of man, is a perfectly clear hyaloid filamentous body, in which a dilated portion, termed the body or head, may be observed, from which is prolonged a long tail or filament, which gradually tapers to an ex- tremity which is hardly Ausible from its extreme tenuity. The head or larger extremity is flattened from side to side and of a conical form, the pointed extremity being anterior. The length of tlie spermatozoon is about g-J^th of an inch, and the width of the body in one direction about the more thau the inch in the opposite. The tail varies somewhat in length in different specimens.