315 CHAPTER XXVIII. THE CIRCULA.TION OF THE BLOOD. THE SANGUIFEROUS SYSTEM. ARTE- RIES. VEINS. CAPILLARIES. THE HEART, IN THE LOWER ANI- MALS, IN AIAN. PHENOMENA OF ITS ACTION. COURSE OF THE CIRCULATION IN MAN. FORCES BY WHICH THE CIHCULATION IS CARRIED ON IN THE ARTERIES, CAPILLARIES, AND VEINS. It is difficult to compreliend how it escaped detection for so long a time that the complex fluid, the properties of which were considered in the last chapter, is perpetually iii motion. Phy- siologists were not insensible of the importance of the blood to the general nutrition of the body ; but of its relation to the elements of the various tissues, they seem to have formed no adequate idea. The discovery of the circulation of the blood by our immortal Harvey, and first taught by him in 1619, was, perhaps, the most perfect physiological induction from well ascertained anatomical fiicts ever made. A careful study of the anatomy of the veins and of their valves, and also of the heart and its valves, and the com- parison of the possible relation which these mechanical contrivances in the one, might bear to those in the other, led to the inevitable inference that the fluid contained in these vessels and in the heart, not only moved, hut also moved in a certain and uniform direction. The agents of the circulation of the blood, are the heart and the blood-vessels ; the latter being a series of tubes of various sizes and structure, and of various vital endowments ; the former, a sort of living forcing pump in free communication with this system of tubes, which, by its unceasing action, keeps the blood in continual motion. We shall first examine the structure and vital endowments of each of these agents of the circulation, and then inquire into the part which each plays in maintaining the circulation of the blood. Of the Blood-vessels.—The blood-vessels are of three kinds. Arteries., Veins., and Capillaries. The Arteries are the vessels which convey the blood from the heart. The etymology of the term t'/ipsco), shows that it was adopted at a period when nothing was known as to the real nature of the contents of these tubes during life. The fact that so large a proportion of the arterial system is empty after death, led Y 2