491 CHAP. XXXIV.] STRAIGHT PORTION OF THE TUBES. Fig. 235. pyramid, the large tubes near the apex may be said to divide dichotomously, so that the number of the individual tubes, wbicb would be seen in a transverse section, increases as we proceed from the apices of the pyramids towards their bases, while their diameter gradually diminishes. In the latter situation there may be many thousand tubes, while the number of openings upon the extremity of the mamilla are comparatively very few in • The tubes at their Xransverse section of a pjTarnid of the hnman kid- nrifippa vnw in rlinmptpr from quarter of an inch from the papilla, orinces vary in aiameiei, um ^ section of largest tubes. 6. Section of smaller flio 1 +lip l_ of tm inph tubes, at a point previous to their opening into a larger 30 0 2 0 0 ’ one. The ihin delicate epithelium approaching to the while towards the base of the pyi-amid they do not exceed SSTS5«e"?«;! of an inch. The aggregate Fig. 2.36, 600 capacity of tlie tubes at the base of a cone is enormously greater than that of the much smaller number of somewhat larger tubes at their orifices. The epithelium in this situation differs in character from that in the convoluted portion of the tubes ; the cells are smaller, more transparent, and approach more nearly to the scaly or tesselated variety. They seem rather to serve as a protective layer than to share in the secreting func- tion. The cells here are usually very thin, approaching to squa- mous epithelium in character; and although the total diameter of the tube is less than that of the convoluted portion, the diameter of the central canal is greater. Vessels of the Kidney. — The renal arteries divide into four or five branches, which enter the kidney at the hilum between the vein and the ureter. These vessels are surrounded with a quantity of fat. They pass between the papillie to the bases of the cones, K K 2 Malpighian tuft from the horse. The injection has penetrated only to the capillaries, a. The artery, a.f. One of its terminal twig.s (or the afferent vessel, d. The dilatation and mode of breaking up of the terminal twig after entering the capsule. The division of the tuft into lobes, I, I, I, is well seen, i, i. Intervals between the lobes. Magnified about 80 diameters.