286 CHAP. XXVI. ABSORPTION. was placed on the opposite side ; the proportions being about as six to five. On the contrary, when solution of white of egg was used, water passed more readily, when placed in contact with the attached or submucous surface than when in contact with the free or epithelial surface. It passed also towards the albumen in only half the quantity that it did to the sugar. Again, with a solution of gum, the endosmose was very feeble, whichever way the membrane was turned—and seemed to follow no rule. These facts show the influence exerted by the structure or chemical properties of the membrane in this process, but we are still very much in the dark as to the intimate cause of the influence thus operating. They are sufficient, however, to indicate the extremely im- portant principle in physiology, that the chemical and structural properties of the tissues exert a great influence on all those pro- cesses in which the molecular motion of fluids is concerned. The thickness or thinness of the membrane also much affects the result, and that for an obvious mechanical reason. If the transmission of fluids is so rapidly carried on out of the body, through the entire thickness of compound and dense membranes, how much more expeditious must it be in the living ti.ssues, where the external fluid has in general but one or two very attenuated films of membrane to traverse in order to arrive within the capillary blood-vessels. Absorption as influenced by Pressure.—The influence of pressure on the passage of fluids through membranes is illustrated by a common filter, or by tying a membrane over one end of a vessel containing fluid, to which a syringe capable of applying various degrees of pressure is adapted. In the latter case, the rapidity of transmission will be found, ccderis paribus., to depend on the degree of pi’essure employed, and after a certain time the trans- mission will be accelerated by the enlargement of the pores of the membrane. In this way pressure may be used as a test of the relative transmissibility of different fluids through membranes of various thickness and quality, and Liebig has found that “ through ox-bladder, liotb of inch thick, water flows under a pressure of twelve inches of mercury; that a saturated solution of sea salt requires from eighteen to twenty inches; and that marrow oil only flows out under a j)ressure of thirty-four inches of mercury. “ When the membrane used is the peritoneum of the ox, ^ioth of an inch in thickness, water is forced through it by eight to ten inches, brine by twelve to sixteen inches, oil hy twenty-two to