268 DIGESTION. [chap. XXV. or absent, the fetid odour of the discharges from the howels becomes greatly increased, as in jaundice from obstruction, and Asiatic cholera. It is not improbable that some of the inte.stinal glands may secrete a peculiar odoriferous principle, which may be modified by the bile. Peyer’s glands may perform this office ; and this idea derives support from the fact, that in certain cases where these glands are diseased, as in fever and phthisis, the foetor of the fajces is increased considerably. Certain gases are generated in the course of the intestinal canal. These are partly set free during the changes which the alimentary matters undergo in the intestine ; and partly they are products of secretion from the mucous membrane. They consist of carbonic acid, hydrogen, carburetted and sometimes sulphuretted hydrogen, and nitrogen. A certain quantity of these gases seems, by its distending action, to favour the vermicular movement of the bowels, and so to promote the passage of their contents. Within certain limits, therefore, the formation of gases in the bowels may be pre- sumed to favour health; hut, it is well known, that under the in- fluence of emotion, or of irritation, or of certain kinds of food, gases are generated in the stomach, as well as in the intestines, to an enormous extent. Tympanites .shows itself in hysteria under the influence of strong emotion; and sometimes a few minutes will suffice to generate a quantity of gas sufficient to distend the whole canal. Also, in fever, the formation of gases in the intestines is a prominent symptom, giving rise to that state of meteorism which is known to be an unfavourable sign in that disease.* * On the subjects discussed in this chapter the reader is referred to the list of writers at the end of the last chapter, and to those quoted in the foot-notes ; also to the following: Berzelius, art. Galle in Wagner’s Handworterbuch ; Bernard, du Sue Pancreatique, &c.. Arch. Gen. de Med., 1849 ; Bernard, de I’origine du sucre dans Peconomie animale. Arch. Gen. de Med. 1848, and translated in Ranking’s Abstract for 1849. Frerichs’ art. Verdauung, in Wagner’s Handworterbuch, a most able essay, which did not reach us until this chapter had been some time in type; Bouchardat and Sandras, Comptes Rendus, 1845 ; Dr. Allen Thompson’s paper on the Intestinal Glands, in Goodsir’s Annals of Anatomy and Physi- ology. Part i. 1850.