198 [chap. XXIV. DIGESTION. stomach. He obtained some of this fluitl by making animals swal- low sponges, which he could draw out of their stomachs by a string * attached; and thus he was enabled to institute experiments on arti- | ficial digestion, so as to shew that alimentary substances out of the | body could be altered by this fluid in the same manner as they are ' changed in the stomach. He likewise introduced food into the stomachs of animals in perforated tubes, whereby they w'ere defended from the ^wessure of the walls of the stomach, but could imbibe its fluids. Plis experiments disproved the favourite theory of the day, which ascribed all changes of the food in stomach digestion to the influence of trituration upon it by the action of the muscular coat of the stomach ; they shewed that the trituration in the gizzard of birds was no more than mastication by teeth in other animals, and that digestion was accomplished in birds of prey, dogs, &c., and pro- bably in man, by the action of a fluid which exerted a solvent influ- ence upon the food."^'" Spallanzani likewise illustrated this subject by numerous experi- ments upon vertebrate animals of all classes, and even upon himself. Following the plan of Reaumur, he obtained the gastric juice by means of sponges, and he introduced food into the stomachs of animals enclosed in perforated tubes and halls. His essay on the subject of digestion is one of the most interesting dissertations in the literature of physiology, and is full of facts proving the secretion of a fluid capable of reducing and dissolving alimentary substances. Stevens availed himself of a rare opportunity of investigating the effects produced on food in the human stomach. A hussar had ac- customed himself at the early age of seven to swallow stones and other hard bodies ; and, having continued the practice during twenty years, what had originated in idle amusement was now resorted to as a regiflar profession, to supply the necessaries of life. When Dr. Stevens first saw him, his stomach was so distended, apparently by the considerable weight to which it was repeatedly exposed, that he could swallow several stones at once, which were not only felt in the stomach, hut might he heard by the bystanders moving against each other when the hypogastric region was struck. Dr. Stevens made this man swallow perforated silver halls, con- taining sometimes I’aw animal food, sometimes vegetable substances : in general, raw animal substances suffered less than those which were roasted or boiled ; roasted or boiled animal substances which * Mem. de I’Acad. des Sciences, an. 1752, pp. 705—752.