^58 PEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. [cHAP. XXXVill. * Phil. Trans. 1850, part ii. p. 516. inches in length. Mr. Rainey has shown that the round ligament of the uterus contains numerous striped muscular fibres. He de- scribes the round ligament as arising by “thin fasciculi of ten- dinous fibres j the inner one from the tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis near the symphysis pubis, the middle one from the superior column of the external abdominal ring near to its upper part, and the external faseiculus from the inferior column of the ring just above Gimbernat’s ligament.’’ The fibres pass backwards and outwards, soon become fleshy, urute to form a rounded cord which runs between the layers of peritoneum forming the broad ligament of the uterus, and is in- serted into the upper and anterior part of the uterus. The action of these fibres would be to draw the uterus forwards and thus elongate the vagina.* Vagina^ and accessory Female Organs of Generation.—The vagina consists of an exteimal or fibrous layer, and a muscular coat. It is lined by mucous membrane. The fibrous tissue of the external coat contains many fibres of the yellow elastic element, and a large net-work of vessels, with plexuses of veins which form an erectile tissue. The muscular fibres run partly in a longitudinal direction, and are partly arranged in transverse bundles which encircle the vagina. The mucous membrane is of a pale reddish colour, thrown into many small, firm, prominent folds, columns rugarum, separated by fissures. The epithelium of the vagina is very large, and of the scaly variety. These cells are almost always present in the mine of females. The nucleus is usually seen very distinetly, and is of an oval form. They present examples of the largest epithelial cells in the body. Close to the external orifiee, the mucous mem- brane forms a re-duplication, termed the hymen, whieh extends across the posterior part of the opening. There are tAvo small glands, the glands of Bartholini, in the female, which correspond to Cowper’s glands in the male. They are small branched glands, the ultimate vesicles of which are lined by tesselated epithelium. They appear to secrete a clear yeUoAAdsh thick mucus. The corpora cavernosa of the clitoris correspond in structure to those of the penis of the male, but are of very small size. Valen- tin has described helicine artei’ies, as in the penis. In the mucous membrane of the external female genital organs, are numerous