590 [chap. XLI. DEVELOPMENT. tube, which is a little twisted, and gradually becomes completely bent upon itself. The development of the heart may be watched in the chick from the beginning of the second day of incubation. It appears between the mucous and serous laminse in the form of a sac, terminating in two or three branches, the future venous trunks. At this early period even rhythmical motions may be observed, but the fluid in its interior is at this time nearly colour- less. The large vascular trunk immediately after its origin from the ventricle divides into four vascular arches, which unite again to form the aorta. This vessel, as it passes down close to the spine, again divides, and gives oflF transverse branches; some of Avhich, the arteriae omphalo-mesentericae, lying upon the duct of the same name, are conducted to the yolk-membrane, upon the surface of which they are spread out. These vessels absorb the nutrient constituents of the yolk, and carry them to the system of the foetus. With their corresponding veins they form a net- work over the umbilical vesicle. Their arrangement will be more fully described in chapter xliii., on the development of the mem- branes of the foetus. Allantois. — The allantois is first observed as a little solid eminence composed of cells upon the anterior surface of the caudal extremity of the embryo (figs. 279, 280 g.). A cavity is soon formed, which is continuous at one period with the lower part of the intestine. The allantois grows very rapidly, and in ruminants soon sur- rounds the entire foetus, its outer surface being in close contact with the chorion; but in rodent animals, and in man, its chief office is probably that of conducting the vessels of the foetus to the chorion. Development op the Human Embryo. It was formerly supposed that man, in his development, passed through various successive stages, each of which was said to have its permanent representative among the lower animals; but a doctrine so obviously untrue has long since ceased to have any supporters. Von Baer showed the fallacy of such a statement; but at the same time proved that up to a certain period of development, the changes occurring in the human embryo were precisely similar to those which take place in the development of all other vertebrate animals; that, for instance, up to a certain period of its existence, we should be unable to distinguish the embryo of man, or one of the higher vertebrata, from that of a