[chap. XXX. 420 ANIMAL HEAT. The best experiments on the temperature of internal parts, are those of MM. Becquerel and Breschet, wdio employed a thermo- electric apparatus^ consisting of two wires of different metals, soldered together, and having their free ends brought into commu- nication with an excellent thermo-electric multiplier, with an index to show lOths of a degree. The wire, passed through various parts of the body, indicated the temperature of the tissues in contact with the point of contact of the two metals. Passing this 1| inch into the calf of the leg, the temperature was found to be 98° P., while at a depth of inch it was only 94°, showing the cooling from the surface inwards. The superficial fascia over the biceps was nearly 3° lower than the muscle itself; on compressing the brachial artery, so as to intercept the fiow of blood, the temperature immediately fell several lOths of a degree. So after the ligature of the main artery for aneurism, the temperature is Avell known to fall, and to require to be economised with increased clothing. Professor Fiik obtained the following results in twelve experiments upon Imng dogs. No difference in the temperature was observed between the right and left ventricle of the heart. The highest degree of w'armth was always met with in the vagina and rectum (101'75 to 105’79). As exercise is attended with quickened circulation, more active respiration, a more abundant interchange of oxygen and carbonic acid, so it occasions an augmentation of animal temperature. The secretions are more copious—there is a more energetic nutrition— the quantity of food required is gi’eater, and we all know how much more keen our appetites are, and how much more food we consume when engaged in employments requiring active exercise, than in sedentary occupations. MM. Becquerel and Breschet have ob- served, that the muscles during their contraction become hotter by 2° or 3°, a fact which one of us can attest from an experiment on the biceps in his own person, made by these gentlemen themseNes. ^leef, as it is attended with diminished frequeney of respiration and pulse, and a smaller evolution of carbonic acid, is also marked by a slight fall of temperature, viz., of from 1° to 3° F. Age has been shown by Dr. Edwards to have much influence on temperature. Old persons, and very young ones, are alike unable to preserve their proper warmth without external aid, and have not the same power as adults of generating heat. For example, he found that young carnivorous and rodent animals, when placed in an atmosphere of 50° F. apart from the body of the mother quickly became cold, though when lying near her they continued within 2° or 3° of her temperature. So, young sparrows one week old were at 97° F. in