457 CHAP. XXXII.] OF THE DUCTS OF GLANDS. forming an outer coat, together with bloodvessels and nerves. The areolar^coat gives strength, toughness, and elasticity to the duct; the bloodvessels serve for its nourishment, and the nerves supply its muscular coat, and endow it with a peculiar sensibility, which, under particular circumstances of pressure or detention (as m the passage of a biliary or urinary calculus), may rise to the height of the most exquisite pain, reacting fearfully on the whole nervous system. The smaller ducts very generally are without muscular parietes, and are reduced to a homogeneous basement membrane, lined with epithelium. Indeed, there is reason to believe that in some cases the very smallest consist either of simple epithelium or of mere basement tissue. The lobular passages of the lungs are an example of this latter constitution. It is not difficult to prove that the larger ducts are muscular. Take for example the ureter. Open a small animal, just killed for the purpose, and this canal will be seen to present oceasional peristaltic contractions, passing rapidly from the kidney to the bladder, which may be easily excited by a mechanical or galvanic irritation if they do not appear spontaneously. Besides this peris- talsis, they undoubtedly undergo, like the bloodvessels, a slow and uniform dilatation and narrowing according to the bulk of their contents, or other eonditions. In some of those dilatations of the gland-ducts, which are pro- vided for a temporary reception of the secretion, such as the urinary bladder and the vesiculse seminales, the museular coat at- tains such a thickness as to allow of being readily shown. The muscularity of the coats of the urethra was demonstrated for the first time some years ago by Mr. Hancock. In tbe gall-bladder, muscle is certainly developed to a far less extent; but even here. Dr. G. H. Meyer states, that by means of a powerful galvanic bat- tery, he has eaused this receptacle in the ox to contract, so as to diminish its capacity one-fourth. The Fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina are parts rightly falling under the head of gland-ducts, though wonderfully modified in accordance with the functions they have to perform. The uterus, in particular, under the condition of pregnancy, offers an example of the highest development of the involuntary or unstriped muscular fibre-cells anywhere met with. We shall now proceed with a description of those glands whieh have not yet been treated of. Of those pertaining to the alimen- tary canal, the salivary glands and their secretion (vol. ii. p. 182), and the secretion of the pancreas (p. 246) and the liver (p. 256), have been already spoken of, and the structure only of the two VOL. II. II II