163 CHAP. XXIII.] THE LIPS AND TONGUE. the stomach, has an epithelium of the scaly variety; this variety forming the most essential character of that subdivision of the diges- tive apparatus considered in this chapter. The lips are moved by about twenty muscles, and are capable of grasping and retaining the food placed within them, and of aiding in the subsequent motions which it is made to undergo in the mouth. Their employment in articulation will be spoken of in another place. The lips and the tongue undergo a variety of modifications in the animal series, with reference to the function of prehension ; among these may be enumerated the enlarged, pendulous, and very moveable lips of the ruminants and solipeds, and of some monkeys. Man uses his lips in suction, as do the young of all mammalia, at the breast. Among fishes, the cyclostomatous group (as the lamprey) have a suction power of a similar kind, their circular mouth being surrounded and sup- ported by a ring of cartilage, and furnished with appropriate muscles for producing adhesion to surfaces to which it is applied. In birds, the lips are modified so as to form the bill, which is always the prehensile organ in that class. The tongue is used by man and animals in suction, somewhat as a piston, being drawn within the mouth so as to exhaust the anterior part of that cavity, and allow fluids to enter by the atmospheric pressure. The canine and feline races employ the tongue to lap fluids; the giraffe twines this organ around the leaves and branches tuent of the glands of both. In the female, however, there is an exception in the case of the ovaries, as will be explained in a subsequent page. Penetrating into all the recesses of the mucous system, and forming its chief bulk, we find nucleated particles, arranged as a layer, and developed in succession, in such a manner that the old ones disappear, while others advance from below. An epithelium is not peculiar to the mucous system, but is met with also on serous membranes, and on the walls of the blood and lymphatic vessels, as well as else- where ; but it is distinguished here by its external position as regards other tex- tures, so as to be capable of passing from the body, or to be exposed to the contact of foreign substances. The particles of this epithelium are very different in different parts, and may be divided into scaly, columnar, glandular, and ciliated. Tlie scalp variety is seen on the skin, and in the alimentary tract as low as the stomach, as well as in the excretory parts of the gcnito-urinary tract. (See vol. i. pp. 404, 412, 437, &e.) The columnar variety consists of rod-like particles, placed endwise, generally bulged near the centre by the nucleus, and narrowest at the point of attachment. They are met with in the air-passages, on the intestinal villi, in the bile-ducts, and elsewhere. The glandular variety is bulky, its particles rather globular than flat or long, and found in all the glands, the several secretions being essentially the contents or substance of the particles set free. The ciliated particles arc columnar or sub-globular in shape, but clothed on their free margin with cilia, as in the examples formerly figured, (vol. i. p. 62, and ante, p. 4.) They are found chiefly in the respiratory tract, and in parts of the genital tract of the female. Tlie true scaly and glandular varieties of epithelium arc never ciliated. See Cyclop. Anat., art. Mucous Membrane. The