CHAP. XXV.] INTESTINAL DIGESTION. 237 tlial sub.stances iutrocluced into the highest part of the intestinal canal take a certain time, varying in each particular case, to traverse it. For example, the act of defsecation will, if allowed or encouraged, take place with the utmost regularity every twelve or twenty-four hours, and the quantity discharged will exhibit but little variation, the quantity and quality of the food remaining the same; and indi- gestible substances taken with the food, seeds, husks, skins, &c., will at certain intervals appear in the fa2ces, having travei’sed the whole canal. There is no act of the animal economy more striking- ly under the influence of habit, i. e., under the control of physical causes, without mental interference, than this of defsecation ; nor, oil the other hand, is there any act which may be more completely deranged by its being laulJced^ through the resistance which the will can oppose to it. The intestinal movements are partly due to the influence of the stimulus of distension upon the muscular tunic, and partly to the reflex action of the ganglia of the intestinal por- tion of the sympathetic, stimulated by the contact of the intestinal contents with the mucous membrane. Direct irritation of the solar plexus, or of the semilunar ganglia produces a marked in- crease in the movements of the intestines. {Vide p. 145, vol. ii.) When obstruction exists at a certain point of the bowels, they become dilated above that point, and when the dilatation has at- tained a certain amount, their contents are found to flow back into the stomach, and are ejected by vomiting. This is commonly sup- posed to be due to an inverted direction of the action of the muscular tunic of the intestines (antiperistaltic action). But Dr. Briuton has very ably shown that there is no antiperistalsis of the bowels under these circumstances, any more than of the stomach in vomiting, and that the altered course of the fluids is due simply to their reflux along the axis of the intestine from the seat of obstruc- tion. The muscular coat of the bowels acting in the downward direction, and with force proportionate to the obstacle, propels the fluids to a point where they encounter insuperable resistance, and whence they must take the course which affords least or no obstacle. Thus a backward current is established in that part of the fluid least influenced by the walls of the intestine, that, namely, which occupies its axis, or in Dr. Brinton’s words, “ an axial reversed current is developed, which returns matters from the neighbourhood of the strangulation to some higher point in the canal.” When fluid returns along the sides of a syringe with a piston not water- tight, we have a somewhat analogous phenomenon, and we may imitate the reversed movement of the intestinal fluids by trying to