544 MALE ORGANS OE GENERATION. [ciIAP. XXXVii. beneath it are Cowper’s glands. This part of the urethra com- inenees at the anterior extremity of the prostate, and terminates in the bulbous portion. Its upper surface is rather longer than the lower one, and it curves upwards. In the evacuation of the bladder, it is most likely that the compressor urethrse muscle, which contains striped fibre, and guards the mepibranous portion of the urethra, becomes re- laxed ; then follows the relaxation of the sphincter vesicse, and the contraction of the fibres of the bladder (detrusor, urinaj), which causes the urine to escape from the urethra with consider- able force. The spongy portion of the urethra is about six inches in length, and is so called, because it is surrounded by the corpus spongiosum urethrae. That part of the canal in the bulb is somewhat dilated, but the diameter of the greater part of this portion of the canal is uniform. CoAvper’s glands open near the anterior extremity of the bulbous portion. When it reaches the plans., however, it undergoes another dilatation, the/ossa navicularis. At its orifice, the urethra is contracted. Mucous Membrane,—The short papillae covering the plans become much elongated at the orifice of the urethra, and highly vascular papillm are found in the anterior half of the fossa navicularis (fossa Morgagnii). They then cease abruptly, but re-commence in the posterior part of the glans, and are continued as far as the bulbous portion. About one-third of an inch from the meatus, on the dorsal aspect of the fossa navicularis, is situated the lacuna magna. In other ]iarts of the mucous membrane of the urethra, except in the pros- tatic portion, are numerous small lacunee. Glands of Littre.—The majority of these are simple involutions of the mucous membrane, or lacunje; but some may be desci’ibed as small branched glands or follicles, which are numerous in the cavernous portion of the m’etlira. These become more simple in the prostatic portion, and take the form of simple follicles. The epithelium lining the urethra and the small glands just re- ferred to, is for the most part of the columnar form. Glandulce Tpsoniance.—These little glands are situated in the fold of skin round the glans penis. They are modified sebaceous glands, and the follicles of which they are composed, contain epithelium and fatty matter, resembling that -which is met with in the ordi- nary sebaceous follicles of the skin. In this locality these glands open upon the soft skin of the prepuce, and arc not associated with s