343 CHAP, xxvrii.] MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART. gaiigliform enlargements may be seen whieli Dr. Lee figures as of great size upon the nerves of the posterior surface of the heifer s heart. Oar own dissections* enable us to confirm the general accuracy of Dr. Lee’s delineations, althorigh we have not discovered so many nor such large nerves as he depicts. We have likewise seen numerous swellings on these nerves, which again we have failed to find, either in such numbers or of the same size as those repre- sented in Dr. Lee’s plates. The nerves are composed altogether of gelatinous fibres, and the swellings do not contain vesicular matter; and, therefore, do not partake of the nature of ganglia. As filaments invariably pass from these swellings into the muscular structure of the heart, we would regard them as resulting from that loosening of the con- stituent fibres of nerve trunks which invariably takes place just before branches are given off from them. Of the Action of the Heart.—The action of the heart is remark- able for its rhythmical character. Each of its cavities exhibits a succession of contractions and dilatations following each other with the most perfect rhythm. Cavities of the same kind contract or dilate simultaneously; but the ventricles are in contraction or systole when the auricles are in dilatation or diastole, and vice versa. Following the course of the circulation through the heart, the auricles having been filled from the veins which open into them, contract and expel their blood into the ventricles, which, in their turn, contract to drive the blood into the arteries. When the ventricles contract, the heart experiences a peculiar tilting movement, by which its apex is raised from the level of the sixth rib to the space between the fifth and sixth, and at the same time it is rubbed more or less forcibly against the wall of the chest. The wall of the ventricles is firmly contracted at every point, and rendered hard and tense ; and, therefore, in its move- ment it communicates a considerable vibration to the wall of the chest, giving rise to what is called the impidse. This impulse is caused altogether by the systole of the ventricles and the con- sequent movement of the heart; it is always directly proportionate to the size of the ventricles, or to the extent of their surface in contact with the wall of the thorax, and to the vigour of their contrac- tions. According to Valentin’s experiments the tilting movement of the heart will take place even when the apex has been cut oil', * Wc take this opportunity of acknowledging tlic valuable assistance of our friend and pnjnl Mr. Samuel Martyn in these dissections.