460 LIVER. [chap. XXXIII. in size, till it joins the common bile duct, close to its entrance into the duodenum. At its termination it is as large as a crowquill. Its coats are thin and extensible, its internal surface smooth. It frequently happens that the duct belonging to the lower end of the curved portion or lesser pancreas opens separately into the intestine. In the rabbit the pancreatic duct opens by a separate orifice, sixteen or seventeen inches lower down the intestine than the bile duct (p. 250). It is not diflScult to inject the duct, and through it the idtimate secreting stnicture of the pancreas, with mercury. This may be best done in some of the smaller mammalia, where the glandular tissue is disseminated in lamellated grains between the layers of the mesentery, and where consequently the ramifications of the duct are naturally spread out towards the ultimate acini. The metal easily penetrates to these parts, and appeal’s in the form of clusters of minute globules, having an average diameter of 5-^ of an inch. These indicate, with probable truth, the terminal vesicles in which the duct ends, and which are lined with the epithelium, or true secreting tissue, continuous with that of the duct. The vesicular terminations lie in the meshes of the capillary network, as is the case with the follicles of the salivary, and other conglomerate glands. The secreting cells are more or less spheroidal in form, and vary somewhat in character according to their age. The mature cells are about the ysTo of an inch in diameter, and are opaque, in consequence of being filled with numerous minute oil globules. The young cells are smaller than these, and are not so opaque. The epithelium in the large ducts is of the columnar variety. The waU of the duct appears to be composed of fibrous tissue, in which elongated nuclei make their appearance upon the addition of acetic acid. The secretion of the pancreas has been described in chapter xxv. p. 248. Liver.—The hver is a large solid glandular organ, of firm con- sistence, of a dark reddish brown colour. It measures about twelve inches from side to side, and six or seven inches from its anterior to its posterior border. According to the observations of Krause, the bulk of the liver corresponds to about eighty-eight cubic inches; its weight is between three and four pounds, and in the adult usually amounts to about l-36th of the weight of the whole body; but in the foetus it is comparatively much larger. The female liver weighs somewhat less than that of the male. The specific gravity of the liver is about 1’05 in health.