DIGESTION. [chav. xxiv. Fig. 154. Over the v\’hole surface of the membrane as seen on laying open the organ, and stretching it so as to obliterate the larger folds, there are visible, even with the naked eye, but still better with a lens, a mul- titude of cavities of very irregular shape, and about -j^th of an inch in diameter, more or less (fig. 154, a). These cells are not the re- sult of creasings of the membrane, and they do not disappear when it is stretched. They are usually filled with mucus, which requires to be removed. Over the greater part of the stomach they extend in depth only about ith or ^th of the thickness of the membrane, but they are larger and deeper near the pylorus. In the ridges between them runs a plexus of vessels larger than ordinary ca- pillaries (fig. 155 A,d), and which often retains its blood after death, so as to map out the cells in a beautiful manner. This plexus is supplied by vessels sent up from below, and may be very easily injected artificially. The epithelium which lines these stomach cells and covers the ridges between them is of the columnar variety (fig. 154 b); the particles are .shorter than in some other parts : one end is fi-ee, while the other is directed to- wards the basement membrane; and they contain each a clear pellucid nucleus near their deeper end. They seem to lie in a dou- course of developement while the more superficial is in course of decay. It has appeared to us that each particle when arrived at maturity has, besides the nu- cleus, granular contents enclosed, and that at a subsequent period the granular contents escape at the free extremity by a dehi- scence or opening of the wall at that part, leaving the transparent husk with its nucleus subsisting for some time longer. The clear structureless mucus which is almost always found occupying the cells J A. Inner surface of the stomach, shewing the cells after the mucus has been washed out. Magnified 25 diameters. B. Columnar epithelium of the inner surface and celts of the stomach :—a. Free ends of the epithe- lial partieles, seen on looking down upon the memoranc. b. Nuclei visible at a deeper level, c. The free ends seen obliquely, d. Deep or at- tached ends of the same. The oval nuclei are seen near the deeper ends. From the dog. Magnified 300 diameters. ble series, the deeper being in