DIGESTION. 230 [chap. XXV. Fig. 162. The function of the villi appears evidently to he connected with absorption, and specially with the absorption of chyle. This view rests upon the following grounds:—First, that the villi exist only in the small intestine, where the most active absorption of di- gested matters evidently goes on ; and that they are most highly developed and most numerous in that part of the small intestine where chyle is first formed. Secondly, that during the process of chylification the villi are turgid with blood, and obviously present all the appearance of being the seat of some active vital process; they are enlarged and opaque, ap- parently from a change in the intraAullous tissue, and probably also from the introduction of some new matter into them. In animals that have been kept fasting for some time prior to death the villi look small, and as if shrunken within their epithelial sheaths, which, in some instances, adapt themselves to the dimi- nished size of the en- closed villi, by becoming thrown into folds. (Fig. 159.) But during the digestive process the villi are large and full; the nuclei of their proper tissue are very distinct; the basement membrane is here and there bulged by them on the surface, especially towards the Vertical section of the coats of the small intestine of a dop, showing only the commencing portions of the portal vein and the capillaries. The injection has been thrown into the portal vein, but has not penetrated to the arteries, a. Vessels of the villi. A. Those of Lieberkiihn’s tubes, c. Those of the muscular coat. Fig. 1B3. A. Epithelium detached, and free in the cavity of the duo- denum taken, immediately after death, from a dog fed 2j hours before. Each cell is filled with apparently fatty matter, partly granular and partly in globules. Magnified 60O diameters. B. The same, suffered to stay an hour or two under the mi- croscope, showing the fatty material aggregated into larger globules, the rest of the cell-structure having become indistinct. ■t