399 CHAP. XXIX.] ACTION OF THE INTERCOSTALS. vation. Plamberger * has given the most elaborate and complete exposition of the mechanical view of the subject, and has illustrated it with diagrams and models. He shows that if two parallel bars (ribs) slope downwards from a fixed vertical column (spine) to which they are separately articulated (heads of the ribs), and are kept separate at their opposite ends (as by the sternum), then a contractile force (muscle) acting between them, will raise or depress both bars, according to the direction of its obliquity. If the con- tractile cord slope downwards from the column representing the spine (external intercostal fibres) the bars will both be elevated by its contraction, and will carry upwards the sternal element. As they rise the cord is seen to shorten. If on the other hand the contractile cord slope downwards to- wards the vertical column (internal intercostal fibres) then the bars will be both depressed by its contraction. It is obvious that the space between the bars will be widened as they rise towards the horizontal line, and narrowed as they fall. Hence it seems clear, without entering upon the mechanical theorems by which the above results may be proved, that the action of the external and internal iutercostals must be antagonistic. That the former must elevate and open out the ribs, the latter depress and approximate them— that as the fibres of the one are shortened those of the other must of necessity be lengthened. It is true that the ribs are curved, and variously flexible, instead of straight and stiff; that their articulations differ from one another, and are nowhere purely ginglymoid, and that other forces besides the intercostal muscles influence their movements. These considerations, however, do not seem to affect the substan- tial accuracy of Hambergers views, so far as relates to the greater number of the ribs, and indeed to all in the posterior region. And Dr. Hutchinson has done well to call attention to them and to illustrate them by new researches. But Dr. Sibson has shown by observations both in man and animals, and in the latter especially, by a series of careful experiments upon the actual movements of the thoracic walls and their muscles, exposed during life, that the external intercostals are not everywhere inspiratory, nor the inter- nal ones expiratory. For, in the upper two or three spaces in front, the internal, as well as the external intercostal fibres, contract and approximate the ribs. Those fibres, also, of the internal intercos- tals which pass between the cartilages of the ribs contract during inspiration, and correspond with the internal intercostals of the * Physiologia Mcdica, Jenae, 1751, 4to. p. 140, cl &eq.