CHAP. XXXIIf.J OF THE SMALLEST DUCTS. 477 Fig. 228. solved, unless tlic solution is very weak. Acetic acid produces a soniewliat similar change, but the cell membrane does not appear to be dissolved. The nuclei always appear more distinctly defined after the addition of the acid; cells which, at first, were found to contain no coloured granules, by being soaked for some time in dilute acetic acid exhibited many. Of the smallest Branches of the hepatic Duct and of their Connexion with the hepatic Cells.—Of the manner in which the ducts commence ill the liver, there has been much difference of opinion, and the most conflicting views have been entertained. Mr. Kier- iian considered that the ducts commenced in a lobular plexus although he was never able to prove the existence of such an arrangement. Kolliker gives a diagram to illustrate his view, which supposes that the open ends of the ducts impinge against the columns of the hepatic cells at the margin of the lobule. Dr. Handfield Jones traces the ducts to the same point, where, he believes, they ter- minate without having any direct communication with the hepatie cells; and he considers that the small cells in these duets are alone concerned in the secretion of the bile (Fig. 228). If this view of the anatomy of the liver he correet, this large organ must be nearly related to the vascular glands.* Dr. Beale’s researches show that Mr. Kieman’s original view is more nearly allied to the truth. In the interlobular fissures numerous finer branches leave the small trunk of the duet and pass towards the secreting eells. In the human subject, many of these may be followed for some distance without giving off branches or anastomosing with each other. These small ducts lie around the small branches of the portal vein, and their course is often tortuous. In some animals, particularly in the rabbit, the small ducts anastomose, forming a network round the vein. This net- Terminal portion of interlobular duct, with epithe- lium within it. Four iiepatic cells to show relative size. To illustrate Dr. Handfield Jones’ view. * Vide Kolliker’s Manual of Human Histology, translated by Busk and Huxley ; Sydenham Society, 1853-54. Dr. Carpenter’s General and Compara- tive Physiology, 4th edition.