CHAP, XXIII. DIGESTION. 168 simple of the human teeth, these grinders are greatly surpassed in complexity of form and structure by the corresponding teeth of herbi- vorous animals, such as the ox, the horse, and the elephant. The internal structure of the teeth, like that of bone, has been much illustrated by those modern microscopic investigations, which have introduced a new sera in the sciences of anatomy and physi- ology. The researches on this subject, opened by Purkinje, Fraenkel, and Retzius, and subsequently pursued wdth more or less originality and extent by Muller, Schwann, Tomes, Nasmyth, and espe- cially by Professor Owen, have confirmed the almost forgotten discoveries of Leeuwenhoek, and brought the whole subject of dental structure and developement into clear and consistent light. We shall now give a short summary of the facts as they have appeared to our own minds, and refer, once for all, to the works quoted at the end of the present chapter, for information as to the share each inquirer has had in the general and very satisfactory result. The three constituent substances, dentine or ivory, enamel, and tooth-bone or crusta petrosa, are found in all the higher and more perfect forms of teeth; and their several conditions in the range of animals have been greatly Instrumental in leading to our present knowledge of them in the human teeth: our design, however, will allow us to speak of their character in the latter only, except in the way of illustration. Taking a simple tooth as an example, (fig. 149,) we find the great bulk to consist of dentine, a term used by Mr. Owen to distinguish this substance from the rest, in preference to that of ivory or tooth- substance. The dentine gives the general form, size, and hardness to the tooth, both root and crown, and in its central part is the cavity containing the papillary substance or pulp, supplying the vessels and nerves of the organ. Dentine is manifestly a modification of the osseous tissue. Like bone, it may be seen in favourable specimens to present a finely granulated ultimate texture, and, like bone, it is perforated by a series of minute channels, opening on the one hand on a vascular sur- face, (that of the pulp-cavity, which corresponds with the Haversian surface of bone: vol. i. p. Ill,) and on the other sparingly branching, so as to permeate every portion of the tissue. The pecu- liarity of dentine consists chiefly in these internal channels of nutri- tion ; and, as we have before shewn the Haversian canals and systems of lamellae in bone to be arranged in con.stant subservience to me- chanical ends, so the corresponding parts in dentine, and especially those parts which answer to the lacunae and canaliculi of bone, ap-