[chap. xvm. INNERVATION. 76 free, and directed towards the lamella, so as to leave an opening or deficiency, the helicoirema of Breschet, by which the scalae tym- pani and vestihnli communicate. The membranous zone connects the convex border of the hook to the outer wall, and is also con- Fig. 136. Cochlea of a new-born infant, opened on the side towards the apex of the petrous bone. It f shows the general arr.angement of the two scalse, the lamina spiralis, and the distribution of the I cochlear nerve. At the apex is seen the modiolus expanding into the cupola, where the spiral J canal terminates in a cul de sac The helicotrema is not visible in this view. From Amola. % tinned upwards beyond the point of the hook, presenting, however, towards the infundihulum, like the hook itself, a free concave bor- : der, contributing to form the orifice of communication. Such being the form of the osseous labyrinth, we may now pro- ceed to consider the more delicate parts of the organ, and the im- mediate distribution of the auditory nerves. We must premise that the cavity of the osseous labyrinth is occupied by a limpid fluid, : the ’perilymph^ so called by De Blainville, from its surrounding, though in the vestibule and semicircular canals only, a hollow membranous apparatus, the membranous labyrinth, which latter itself contains a similar fluid, the endolymph. Of the Structure of the Spiral Lamina of the Cochlea.—We shall term the two surfaces of this lamina tympanic and vestibular, as they regard respectively the tympanic or vestibular seal a. The osseous j portion of the spiral lamina extends more than half way from the 1 modiolus towards the outer wall, and is perforated, as already de- * scribed, by a series of plexiform canals for the transmission of the cochlear nerves ; these canals, taken as a whole, lie close to the lower or tympanic surface, and open at or near the margin of this zone. The vestibular surface of the osseous zone presents in about the outer fifth of its extent, a remai-kable covering, more resembling the texture of cartilage than anything else, hut having a peculiar arrangement quite unlike any other with which we are acquainted.