425 THEORY OF ANIMAL HEAT. CHAP. XXX.] inefficient supply of oxygen, and the suspension of secretion and tlie absence of symptoms characteristic of the accumulation of excretory products in the organism, show that the chemical changes accompanying the disintegration of the tissues are only taking place in a slight degree, or are altogether suspended, the tempera- ture often falls to 70°, or even much lower. It is curious that, in many of these conditions, the temperature should rise very rapidly immediately after death. The most striking examples of this have been placed on record by Dr. B. Dowler, of New Orleans, and occurred in cases of yellow fever, etc. In one instance, just before death, the temperature was 104°; and fifteen minutes after death, it had risen to 113° in an incision in the thigh. The temperature still i remained very high for several hours after death. Hybernation.—The phenomena of hybernation are dependent i upon the conditions we have just alluded to. Previous to becoming ; torpid, the animal accumulates a quantity of fat, which is, as it I were, laid up as in a storehouse, to be consumed slowly, while the ' period of annual sleep lasts. At this time, the activity of the vital : functions is much reduced, the animal lies perfectly still, the fre- j quency of the heart’s action and of the respirations diminishes ; its temperature falls many degrees, and it is placed in a condition the most favourable for supporting life for a considerable period of time with a very small supply of combustible material. The moment the animal is roused, the vital processes again become active, and a supply of food soon becomes necessary. In the case of the marmot, in which animal the hybernation is complete, the pulse falls to about 15 beats in a minute, and the respirations to 14 in an hour, while in the waking state these are respectively 150 and 500. The temperature of the body, during the hybernating period, may fall as low as 35°. If, however, the animal be exposed to warmth, the frequency of the pulse and respiration increases, a much larger quantity of oxygen is consumed, and a corresponding proportion of carbonic acid exhaled. The temperature of the body suddenly rises, and the animal soon dies, unless supplied with food. Theory of Animal Heat—li has been shown, that in certain parts of plants, and in cold as well as warm-blooded animals, heat is de- veloped coincidently with the consumption of oxygen, the com- bustion of carbon, and the formation of carbonic acid. The heat produced, and the chemical product of combustion, have been observed to bear a certain general correspondence one with the other. lo understand the real nature of the development of heat in VOL. II. F F