159 HUNGER. CHAP. X 'CXII.] in the lean of meat than the fat, which is fully proved by experi- ment, fat, being of a greasy nature, causes bile, and palls the sto- mach : the lean of fat meat is best. Veal and lamb are never given, nor is pork. The legs of fowls, being sinewy, are much approved of The yolk of a raw egg is reckoned the best thing in a morning', and is suj)posed to prevent bilious complaints. Beef- steaks are reckoned very good, and rather underdone than other- wise, as all meat in general is; and it is better to have the meat broiled than roasted or boiled, by which nutriment is lost. No fish whatever is allowed, because it is reckoned watery, and not to be compared with meat in point of nutriment. The fat of meat is never given, but the lean of the best meat. No butter nor cheese on any account; cheese is indigestible. Meat must be dressed as plain as possible without seasoning of any kind. Men will live longer on beef, without change, than on any other kind of animal food, but mutton is reckoned most easily digested. The meat must always be fresh, and never salted. No quantity of meat is fixed ; it depends upon the constitution and appetite. Little men will eat as much as large men, and very frequently more. Pies and pud- dings are never given, nor any kind of pastry; as to hard dump- lings, people may as well take earthenware into their stomachs.” This system, it must be remembered, is combined with one of active and even severe exercise. The periods for taking food, and the quantity to be taken, are under the natural guidance of certain sensations, which we call Hun- ger, Thirst, and Satiety. Hunger.—The immediate cause of hunger cannot be explained. It is probably a sensation dependent on a peculiar condition of the mucous membrane of the stomach, which certain states of disease may blunt or may increase to an inconvenient extent, as in diabetes. The nerve which is instrumental in this sensation is probably the vagus nerve by its gastric branches, but there is no reason for deny- ing to the sympathetic nerves, distributed to the stomach, some share in this phenomenon. The experiments of Bracket and Dr. John lleid, relative to the influence of the nerves on hunger, lead to no satisfactory conclusion, because of the difficulty of intei-preting the sensations of dumb animals, and the probability that appetite would be destroyed or impaired after any serious operation, even although the injured nerve had nothing to do with the stomach. The sensa- tions caused by extreme hunger would indicate that some further change was taking place in the wall of the stomach. A peculiar sense of sinking referrible to the gastric region, general faintness.