20 INNERVATION. [chap. xvii. bitecl by a section however thin, immersed in water, and deranged by stretching. Of the anterior elastic lamina.—This is a transparent, homo- geneous lamina, co-extensive with the front of the cornea, and form- ing the anterior boundary of the cornea proper. It is a peculiar tissue, the office of which seems to be that of maintaininsf the exact curvature of the front of the cornea ; for there pass from all parts of its posterior surface, and in particular from its edge, into the sub- stance of the cornea proper and sclerotic, a multitude of filamentous cords, which take hold, in a very beautiful artificial manner, of the fibres and membranes of those parts, and serve to brace them and hold them in their right configuration (fig. Ill, 1). These cords, like the elastic lamina of which they are productions, appear to be allied to the yellow element of the areolar tissue. They are unaffected by the acids. The anterior elastic lamina sustains the conjunctival epi- thelium which covers the cornea, and is very probably the represen- tative of the basement membrane of the mucous system, as it occupies the corresponding position in regard to the epithelium. Its thickness is about of an inch. The conjunctival epithelium of the cornea may always be obtained from a fresh eye, by gently scraping its surface. It consists of three or four layers of superposed particles, inclining to the columnar form where they rest on the anterior elastic lamina, and becoming imbrica- ted scales on the surface (fig. Ill, a). In many of the larger animals this epithelium consists of a much deeper series of nucleated parti- cles, and its transparency then becomes a remarkable character. It is in this epithelium that particles driven with force against the eye generally lodge, and it is easily detached by the instrument used to extract them. Vessels shooting into the cornea in disease lie under it, and small ulcers are formed by its destruction. In animals which cast their skin this lamina is shed with the cuticle of the body. The posterior elastic lamina of the cornea (fig. 111, c?) is a very thin membrane in which no structure can be detected. It has all the transparency of glass, and does not become opaque by maceration, boiling, or the action of acids. It adheres but slightly to the cornea proper, and, when peeled off, it has such a tendency to curl with its anterior surface inwards, that it is difficult to retain a piece of it in an extended form. If floated in water, it exhibits a peculiar glistening lustre resulting from its density. It readily tears, yet is so hard that it is bitten through with difficulty. Its elasticity is great, and has been supposed to contribute to