LIVER. [chap. XXXIII. 4G4 i.e., wliere the blood is leaving it^ so that the blood circulates in the reverse direction to that in which the bile must flow. The Liver in Invertebrata.—The liver is one of the most constant glandular organs, being met with, in some form, in all animals provided with a digestive ca%dty. In the polyps, the liver is represented by some coloured cells round the stomach. In many of the annelids, clusters of biliary cells are seen sur- rounding the csecal prolongations of the digestive cavity. In the Eolis (one of the nudibranchiate gasteropodous mollusks) a somewhat similar arrange- ment is observed, the follicles of the alimentary tube being prolonged into the papillfB, covering the dorsal surface of the animal. In most other mollusks, however, the liver exists as a distinct organ, and is composed of branched foUicles, arranged round terminal ducts. The follicles contain coloured cells, in which oil globules are often present in considerable number. In many of the Crustacea, the liver is detached from the intestinal walls, and consists of numerous large cocca (Fig. 215), which pour their contents into small ducts, although in others it seems to consist simply of cells arranged in follicles, which are connected with the intestine, as in the lowest classes. In insects, the hepatic organ takes the form of simple or branched tubes, fr’om two to six in number, which open into the intestine. According to our observations, the cells do not appear to be arranged round the tube, so as to leave a distinct central channel, as in the uriniferous tubule, but lie within the basement membrane, without order or regularity, often completely fiUing the tube, and not uufrequently, from their large size, causing it to bulge. We shall pre- sently see that a very similar arrangement exists in the tubular network of basement membrane, which contains the liver-cells in vertebrate animals. Throughout the whole animal series, the liver consists essentially of cells containing colom’ing matter, and usually oil globules, which lie wthin a tube or follicle of basement membrane, continuous with the alimentary canal. Fig 218. Having premised tliese general points, we shall now proceed to consider the anatomy of the liver more in detail. Lobules of the Liver.—The terminal twigs of the portal veins and the commencing radicles of the hepatic vein, thus distributed through the liver with a definite thickness of capiUaiy plexus with nucleated bile-cells interposed, are further arranged in such a manner as that the intervening mass is gathered, not into a folded sheet, hut into a great number of small portions, termed lobules. These lobules are apparent to the eye in many animals; but hi the pig they are each of them invested by a separate and distinct membranous en- l>o,.ion of flbrou. capsule of alobule of VclopC Or CapSUlc, which is COmpOScd of the piK's liver, showing urrungemeiit of delicate fibrOUS tisSUC (Fig. 218). In tlllS the fibres—215 aiameters. ^ i animal, each lobule may be regarded as If -i