A. B. CHAP. XXV.] THE INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 225 than in the latter intestine. The mucous membrane is thickest where the tubes are most developed, namely, in the jejunum. Lieberkuhn’s follicles are doubtless secreting agents, resembling in that respect the tubes of the stomach. Probably their office, in reference to the intestinal contents, is the same through- out the whole intestinal tube, as they present everywhere so much uniformity of arrange- ment and structure, and as each portion of the intestine pos- sesses other and peculiar glands. As yet, however, nothing is known respecting the nature of the mucus which is secreted Lv fbpm Transverse section of Lieljerkilhn’s tubes or folU- Uy Liieui. showing the basement membrane and sub- ■Rtt fVio infinifp mnUilnflp nf columnar epithelium of their walls, with the areolar J5y tne mnniie muiuiuue Ot connects the tubes, a. Biusement mem- minnfp onrl iniprn«pnn!p invnltl- brane and epithelium, constituting the wall of the miniue anu microscupic lUVUJU a. cavity or lumen of the tube. Magnified 200 tions which form Lieberkuhn’s diameters. , ... . . 1 B. A single Lieberkuhns tube, highly magnified. A follicles, the extent of surface happy accidental section in the obUque direction has ^ served to display very distinctly the form and mode of of the mucous membrane is packing of the epithelial particles, the cavity of the tube, and the mosaic pavement of its exterior, a. Basement enormously increased. It is membrane, c. InternM surface of the wall of the tube. Magnified 200 diameters. still further enlarged by the existence of various folds and proce.sses wdiich project into the cavity of the intestine ; these we shall now proceed to describe. Of the ValvuldE Gonniventes, Folds, and Villi.—The mucous mem- brane of the small intestine exhibits numerous folds, which, small, irregular, and resembling the rug« of the stomach in the superior third of the duodenum, assume a much more definite form, and are much more highly developed in the remaining portions of the small intestine, but especially in the jejunum. The irregular foldings of the upper portion of the duodenum very soon exhibit the tendency to assume a transverse direction with reference to the axis of the intestine. In the middle and inferior portions of the duodenum we find numerous transverse plaitings or folds from one-eighth to a quarter of an inch in depth. These are simple folds of the compound mucous membrane, including a process of the submucous areolar tissue—they are called valvulee conniventes, from their valvular form, and from their movements under water resembling the flapping of valves, or the winking motion of the eyelids. Each fold passes round the intestine for