CHAP. XVIII.] 81 THE COCHLEAR NERVES. i-i y I The scalee of the cochlea are lined with a nucleated membrane, or epithelium, which is very delicate and easily detached, usually more easily seen in the vestibular than in the tympanic scala, and in many animals containing scattered pigment. Of the cochlear nerves. These enter from the internal auditory meatus through the spirally-arranged orifices at the base of the mo- diolus, and turn over in succession into the canals hollowed in the osseous zone of the spiral lamina, close to its tympanic surface. In this distribution the nervous bundles subdivide and reunite again and again, forming a plexus with elongated meshes, the general radiating ari’ange- ment of which can be readily seen through the substance of the bone when it has been steeped in diluted hydrochloric acid (fig. 141). Towards the border of the osseous zone the bundles of the plexus are smaller and more closely set, so as at length almost to form a thin uniform layer of nervous tubules. Beyond the border, and partially on or in the inner transparent belt of the membranous zone, these tubules arrange themselves more or less evidently into small sets, which advance a short distance and then terminate much on the same level. These ter- minal sets of tubules are cone-shaped, coming to a kind of point ere they cease. The white sub- stance of Schwann exists in them throughout, but is thrown into varicosities and broken with extreme facility, and they are interspersed with nuclei, so that it is very difiicult to discover the precise disposition of the individual tubules (fig. 139, a). They seem to cease one after another, thus causing the set to taper ; and at least it appears certain that evidence of loopings, such as have been described by some, is wanting. In the cochlea of the bird, however, we have seen at one end a plexiform arrangement of nucleated fibres ending in loops ; but this is a peculiar structure. The capillaries of the osseous zone are most abundant on the tympanic scala, in connexion with the nerves now mentioned, and form loops near the margin, with here and there an inosculation with the large marginal capillary already mentioned. Of the membranous labyrinth (fig, 142). This has the same general shape as the bony cavities in which it lies, but is consider- VOL. U. Fig. 141. <2. Plexiform arrangement of the eochlear nerves seen in the basal coil of the lamina spiralis, treated with hydro- chloric acid. There are no ganglion globules in this plexus, which consists of tubular fibres, a. Twig of cochlear nerve in the modio- lus, its fibres diverging and reuniting in i, a band in the plexus taking a direction parallel to the zones. From this other twigs radiate, and again and again branch and unite as far as the margin of the osseous zone c, where they terminate. From the sheep. Magnified 30 diam. G