INNERVATION. [chap. XVIII. 68 calculated to entangle particles of dust, or small insects, and to pre- vent their entrance into the organ. These glands are principally seated in the subcutaneous tissue, where the cartilage is deficient, and do not extend into the osseous portion of the canal. The cerumen is an oily, very hitter substance, of a yellow colour, and contains, in addition to fat, albumen, and colouring matter, a bit- ter principle analogous to that of the bile. If not removed from time to time, it is liable to form hard pellets, which either impact the passage, or come into contact with the membrana tympani, and in either case seriously interfere with the transmission of sound to the internal parts. These concretions are partially soluble in ether and turpentine. The Middle Ear^ or tympanic carity^ is a space filled with air, com- municating with the pharynx by the Eustachian tube, and inter- posed between the external meatus and the labyrinth. It opens behind into the mastoid cells, AA'hich are also filled with air, and it is traversed by a chain of moveable bones, connecting the membrana tympani with the vestibule or common central cavity of the la- byrinth. The tympanum is of irregular shape, compressed laterally, and lined by a very delicate ciliated epithelium, prolonged from the pharynx. The external wall of the tympanum is formed by the memlrana tympani^ and a small extent of the surrounding bone. The mem- brane is nearly oval, but wider above than below, and as already stated, placed in a slanting direction, so as to form an obtuse angle with the upper wall, and an acute one of about 45° with the floor of the auditory canal. It consists of three lamina3, an external, middle, and internal. The external is derived from the cuticular lining of the canal, and easily detaches itself with that structure after maceration. The middle is strong and fibrous, perhaps analo- gous to the dermal part of the integument, and attached through the medium of a dense fibrous rim to the bone, which presents a distinct groove for its reception, except above. The handle of the malleus is firmly united to this layer of the membrane, in a vertical direction as far down as the centre, and draws the membrane in- wards along that line, so that its outer surface is concave, its inner convex. The abundant small vessels supplying this part run along the handle of the malleus, and thence radiate more or less directly towards the border. The fibrous tissue is in part similarly disposed, and thus seems to have led Sir E. Home to describe a radiating muscle in the membrane, which does not appear to exist. Seen from within, a concentric arrangement of the fibres is more obvious.