556 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. [cHAP. XXXATII. layers are not very elearly defined. The outermost layer is very thin, and is ineorporated with the sub-peritoneal tissue. It eon- sists of longitudinal and transverse fibres, many of the latter, after investing the anterior and posterior surfaces of the organ, lose themselves upon the Fallopian tubes, or enter the broad and round ligaments. The middle layer makes up the greater part of the thickness of the uterine Avails, and consists of strong bundles; which also run, some in a longitudinal and others in a transverse direction. It is in this layer that the greater number of the ves- sels which supply the organ, and which become so enormously developed in pregnancy, ramify. The innermost layer is thinner, and composed chiefly of thin longitudinal fibres. Round the external os uteri, the transverse fibres are very abundant, and collected together beneath the mucous membrane, so as to form a sphincter muscle. In these difierent layers, in the virgin uterus, the muscular fibre- cells for the most part are seen as short spindle-shaped cells, in many of which, oval elongated nuclei can be demonstrated. At this period, the (\ cells are often seen to be of very irre- ' ' gular form, and are not always very readily made out. The muscular fibre- cells undergo increased development in the pregnant state, and towards the end of this period, will be found to be very long cells with a distinct oval nucleus. The cell terminates in long thin . and pointed extremities (fig. 266). After de- livery, these cells again diminish in dimen- sions, a number of fat globules appear in their interior, and ultimately they regain their former appearance (fig. 267); while, at the same time, the entire organ returns to its former volume. Tlie mucous membrane of the uterus forms a pale and not very thick lining membrane. In the fundus and body of the organ, it is of a redder colour than in the cervix, in consequence of the greater vascularity of this part. The epithelium is of the ciliated variety. Imbedded in the mucous membrane of the uterus are nume- Muscular fibre cells from the uterus, tlirec weeks after parturi- tion, sliowiiig tlie fat globules in their interior. The four cells to the left have been treated with acetic acid. After Kolliker.