DIGESTION. 264 [chap. XXV. vessels, while from the residuum the bile is formed, which is con- veyed away by the biliary ducts.” During the latter days of incubation of the hen’s egg, the liver assumes a completely yellow colour, instead of the reddish-brown which it had previously. This is connected with the rapid ab- sorption of the yolk, probably by the blood-vessels of the yolk-sac, which carry it to the liver, where it finds its way-from the blood- vessels into the fine gall-ducts, which at this time are full of particles exactly the same as the yolk-globules. These particles are not carried into the intestine along the biliary passages, but undergo a change by which, on the one hand, blood-corpuscles are formed and pass into the blood-vessels, and, on the other hand, bile is generated and carried off by the ducts. Weber states that he has observed a similar phenomenon in the liver of the frog in the spring of the year, when the sexual organs are highly developed, and when the lymphatic system is in a higlily active state. The liver undergoes a change of colour from reddish- brown to greenish-yellow. It is covered with dark pigment-cells, and contains numerous opaque masses, which probably consist of the colouring-matter of the bile, which may have accumulated during the winter, but which now undergo gradual solution and pass off in the bile. The peculiar colour which characterizes the liver at this time, in the frog, is resident, as with the chick, neither in the blood-vessels nor in the hepatic cells, but in the minute ramifications of tlie gall-ducts, which are filled with numerous small globules containing fatty particles. These undergo the same metamorphoses as those of the chick into blood-corpuscles. This highly interesting subject requires further investigation—to ascertain whether similar phenomena may be noticed in other animals, as in intra-uterine life in Mammalia—or in hybernating animals—or whether, indeed, they may not be constantly occurring in adult animals, although with less activity than in the young. The question occurs to us, may the liver be a source of supply of blood-corpuscles, or may it contribute to the production of hsematine in adult life ? It has often struck us that this question might be answered in the affirmative, wdiile observing cases in which the process of the formation of blood seemed greatly perverted, where no organic disease could be detected beyond some degree of enlargement of the liver. Patients suffering in this way are pale, as if from loss of blood, although no such loss had been ex- perienced ; their nutrition is enfeebled, digestion impaired, and there is .slight yellowness of the complexion, as in cases of hepatic