CHAP. XXI. 141 THE ABDOMINAL PLEXUSES. The brandies of this plexus which pass between the laminae of the mesentery do not accompany the smaller branches of the arteries so closely as elsewhere. They anastomose by arches, from which small branches pass to the intestine. The precise mode of termi- nation of these nerves in the tunics of the intestines has not been ascertained. In the pelvis we find a remarkably complicated plexiform arrange- ment of nerves distributed to the viscera of that cavity. These nerves are derived from the hypogastric, and from the inferior me- senteric (p. 138), and receive many fibres from the sacral nerves, which latter fibres are principally distributed to the pelvic plexus, a name given by Mr. Beck to an intricate anastomosis of nerves and small ganglia distributed to the rectum, bladder, and vagina. This plexus derives its nerves from the lower part of the hypogastric plexus, and from the branches of the sacral plexus. A very important peculiarity of all the plexuses, wherever found, of the sympathetic nerve, consists in the presence of a quantity of vesicular matter in them, deposited in ganglia of very variable size, sometimes extremely minute, very rarely of great size, which are found scattered amongst them. These ganglia appear to give origin to gelatinous fibres. The plexuses, therefore, have the double office of intermingling fibres from different sources, and of affording points of origin for new' nerve fibres. Function of the Sympathetic Nerve.—In considering the function of this portion of the nervous system, it is of the utmost importance to pay close attention to the facts which the anatomical analysis of it discloses. These facts are, that it contains a vast number of centres to and from which nerves proceed, and in w'hich, it may be stated almost with certainty, gelatinous fibres originate: that in nearly every part of it two kinds of fibres exist, the gelatinous and the tubular; that the tubular are derived from the cerebro-spinal centre, the gelatinous from the sympathetic ganglia. Two questions are to be solved in reference to the sympathetic. 1. Is the sympathetic a distinct and independent portion of the nervous system? or is it merely an off-shoot from the brain and spinal cord, exhibiting certain peculiarities of arrangement ? 2. Do its fibres exhibit the same power’s as those of cerebro-spinal nerves ? that is, are they sensitive and motor ? I. No physiological question has been more amply discussed of late years than that of the relation of the sympathetic to the cerebro- spinal centres.