E L L I S'S DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY: BEING A GUIDE TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE HUMAN BODY BY DISSECTION. ELEVENTH EDITION, REVISED AND EDITED BY GEOEGE DANCER THANE, PROFESSOR OP ANATOMY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON. ILLUSTRATED BY 262 ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD. LONDON: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE. 1890. [A II rights reserved. ]lifiADBXIRY, AGNEW, & CO., LTMH. I'l; IM Kl;s. WtLLCG.v.Ek.3TITyTE/ LIGRARY / Cell. welMOfrfec Ca!l / No. /mo /PEEFACE. In this edition of the Demonstrations of Anatomy, the scope and arrangement of the Work remain as in the last; but such additions and alterations have been made as were required by the progress of knowledge and were adapted to the character of the book as a guide to practical study. In its preparation I have received much assistance from my brother, Dr. E. H. Thane, Demonstrator of Anatomy in University College, London, on whom has fallen the greater part of the labour of seeing the work through the press. The number of illustrations has been increased by the addi- tion of ten new woodcuts. G. D. THANE. Aiujud, 1890.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20418358CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. PAGE Section 1. External Parts of the Head ....... 1 2. Internal Parts of the Head 9 3. The Face 20 i. The Orbit 39 5. The Neck, right side 51 Posterior triangular space . . . . . 54 Front of the Neck 58 Anterior triangular space . . . . . 60 6. Pterygo-maxillary Region ....... 82 7. Submaxillar}' Region ........ 93 8. Right Orbit and Superior Maxillary Nerve .... 100 9. Deep Vessels and Nerves of the Neck 103 10. Left side of the Neck 116 11. The Pharynx . 121 12. The Mouth 133 13. Cavity of the Nose 134 14. Spheno-palatine and Otic Ganglia, Nasal and Facial Nerves, and Internal Maxillary Artery 141 15. The Tongue 149 16. The Larynx. . 156 17. Hyoid Bone, Cartilages and Ligaments of the Larynx, Struc- ture of the Trachea ........ 165 18. Prevertebral Muscles and the Vertebral Vessels , . .171 19. Ligaments of the first two Cervical Vertebra?, and of the Clavicle . . 174 CHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Section 1. Membranes and Vessels 18? 2. Origin of the Cranial Nerves 188viii CONTENTS. PAGE Skctiox 3. Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii 193 4. The Cerebrum, or Great Brain 202 The under Surface, or the Base ... . 203 The upper Surface, Lobes, and Convolutions . . . 207 The Interior 215 Yentricles and Central Parts ...... 217 Fibres of the Cerebrum 231 5. Tlie Cerebellum, or Little Brain 233 Surfaces and Lobes 234 Structure of the Mass ....... 237 Fourth Ventricle and Nuclei of Cranial Nerves . . 239 CHAPTER III. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Sectiois 1. The Wall of the Thorax 247 The Axillary Space 251 2. Scapular Muscles, Vessels, Nerves, and Ligaments . . . 266 3. The Front of the Arm 275 Back of the Arm 284 4. The Front of the Forearm 287 5. The Palm of the Hand 300 6. The Back of the Forearm 312 7. Ligaments of the Shoulder, Elbow, Widst. and Hand . . 320 CHAPTER IV. DISSECTION OF THE THOKAX. Section 1. Cavity of the Thorax 336 The Pk'urnc 338 Relations of the Lungs ....... 340 The Pericardium 342 The Heart and its large Vessels 344 Nerves of the Thorax 362 The Trachea, and the Charactei's and Structuie of the I^^"!^,^ 365 Parts in Front of the Spine, and tlie Cord oi' tlie Syin pathetic 369 Parietcs of the Thorax 375 2. Ligaments of the Trunk , 377 Articulation of the Ribs to tlie Vertebra- . . 378 Articulation of the Ribs to the Sternum . . . 379 Articulations of the Sternum 380 Articulations of the Vertebrre . . . . . . 380CONTENTS. ix CHAPTER V. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. PAGE First Layer of Muscles ... . . . . . ' . . ,388 Second Layer of Muscles . . 392 Third Layer of Muscles .394 Tourth Layer of Muscles 396 Fifth Muscular Layer, Avith Vessels and Nerves . . . . . 399 Sixth Layer of Muscles, and Sacral Nerves 406 CHAPTER VL DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Membranes of the Cord . . . '. . . . . . . 410 Roots of the Spinal Nerves . . . . . . . . . . 414 Vessels of the Cord .• , . .416 Form and Divisions of the Cord . . . . . . . . . 416 Composition of the Cord .......... 418 Intraspinal Vessels ........... 420 CHAPTER VIL DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section 1. Perineum of the Male . . . . . . . . 422 Posterior Half of the Space . . . . . . 423 Anterior Half of the Space ...... 428 Lateral Operation of Lithotomy ..... 436 2. Perineum of the Female ....... 437 CHAPTER VIIT. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section 1. Wall of the Abdomen 441 2. Hernia of the Abdomen . , . . . ' . . 460 3. ' Cavity of the Abdomen ......... 471 Relations of the Viscera ...... 473 Peritoneum and its Folds ...... 479 Mesenteric Vessels, and Part of the Sympathetic Nerve . 484 Relations of the Aorta and Vena Cava . . . . 490 Relations of the Duodenum and Pancreas . . . 491 Coeliac Axis and Portal Vein 492 Sympathetic and Vagus Nerves 497 4. Anatomy of the Abdominal Viscera 499 The Stomach 499 The Small Intestine 502 The Large Intestine 606 The Pancreas . . . . . . . . . 509 hCONTENTS. X Section 4—continued. page The Spleen . ' . . 510 The Liver 512 The Gail-Bladder 518 The Kidney and the Ureter 519^ The Suprarenal Body . . . ' . . . 522 The Testis and the Vas Deferens 523 5, Diaphragm, with Aorta and Vena Cava " . . . . 528 Deep Muscles of the Abdomen 537 6. Lumbar Plexus and the Cord of the Sympathetic Nerve . 540 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Section 1. Fascia of the Cavity, and the Muscles of the Pelvic Outlet . 545 2. Kelations of the Viscera in the Male ..... 551 3. Relations of the Viscera in the Female 558 4. Vessels and Nerves of the Pelvis . . . . . . 562 5. Anatomy of the Viscera of the Male . . ... 571 The Prostate Gland and the Seminal Vesicles . . .572 The Urinary Bladder 575 The Urethra and the Penis 578 The Rectum . . . 584 6. Anatomy of the Viscera of the Female ..... 585 Genital Organs ......... 585 The Vagina 587 The Uterus 588 Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes ...... 591 Bladder, Urethra, and Rectum 593:- 7. Internal Muscles of the Pelvis 594 Ligaments of the Pelvis .... ... 595 CHAPTER IX. dissection of the lowep. limb, Skction 1. The Front of the Thigh 604 Femoral Hernia 612 Scarpa's Space 616 Deep Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves on the Front of the Thigh . . * . 619 Deep parts on the inner Side of the Thigh . . . 629^ 2. The Buttock, or the Gluteal Region . . . . : 637 3. The Back of the Thigh 650 The Popliteal Space 651 Hamstring Muscles and Vessels ..... 656 The Hip-Joint 659 4. The Back of the Leg . . 665 5. The Sole of the Foot . 675 6. The Front of the Leg and the Dorsum of the Foot . . 688 7. Ligaments of the Knee, Ankle, and Foot 697CONTENTS. xi CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. PAGE Sclerotic Coat and Cornea 723 Choroid Coat and Ciliary Processes 725 Ciliary Muscle 727 The Iris . 727 Ciliary Vessels and Nerves . . . . . . , . .729 Chamber of the Aqueous Humour . . . . . . . . 730 The Retina 730 Vitreous Body, and Hyaloid Membrane, with the Suspensory Ligament, and the Canal of Petit .......... 731 Crystalline Lens and its Capsule 733 CHAPTER XL DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The Auditory Canal ' . . 735 The Tympanum, with its Vessels and Nerves ...... 737 Ossicles of the Tympanum, and their Muscles and Ligaments . . . 741 The Osseous Labyrinth of the Liner Ear ....... 746 Vestibule 746 Semicircular Canals .......... 747 Cochlea, its Septum and Passages . 748 The Membranous Sacs, or Labyrinth ....... 751 Nerve of the Labyrinth 753 Blood-vessels of the Labyrinth . . . . . . . . .754 INDEX 755DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Section I. EXTERNAL PAETS OF THE HEAD. Directions. In the dissection of tlie head and neck, tlie student Parts to be should endeavour to learn the parts described in the first fifty- [hTbody^is^ eight pages, before the position of the body is changed ; but if want turned, of time necessitates the omission of some part, the examination of the facial nerve (p. 36) can be best deferred till a subsequent stage. The exterior and the interior of the head, the orbit on one side, and the posterior triangular space on both sides of the neck should be examined while the body lies in its first position on the back. The student begins with the dissection of the muscles of the scalp and ear. On the left side the muscles are to be seen, and on the opposite half the vessels and nerves are to be displayed. Position. The body lying on the back, raise the head to a suitable Position of height, and turn the face to the right side. iiebodj,. Extrinsic Muscles of the Ear. Three muscles pass to the Muscles of auricle from the side of the head. Two are above it,—one eleva- ting, the other drawing it forwards ; and the third, a retrahent muscle, is behind the ear. There are other special or intrinsic muscles of the cartilage of the ear, which will be afterwards noticed (p. 34). Dissection. When the auricle has been drawn down by hooks, Dissection the position of the upper muscle will be indicated by a slight muscfeT prominence between it and the head. A horizontal incision, about tliree inches in length, is to be made through the skin close above the ear, and from the centre of this another cut is to be carried up- wards along the cutaneous ridge above mentioned for a similar distance. By carefully raising the flaps of skin between these cuts from below upwards, and removing a little areolar tissue, a thin fan-shaped layer of pale muscular fibres will come into view, theDISSECTIOX OF THE HEAD. 2 of posterior nniscle. Attraheus aurem muscle. Attollens aurem muscle. Eetraliens aurem con- sists of two or three ■bundles. Use of ear muscles. Occipito- frontalis, liow seen take care not to cut away apo- neurosis. anterior poition of wliicli is the attraliens, while the posterior is the attollens aurem mnscle. On drawing forwards the ear, a ridge marks the situation of the posterior muscle. To remove the integuments, let the scalpel be carried downwards ahout an inch, behind the ear, from the trans- verse cut above as far as to a level with the lobule of the ear, and then forwards below the lobule. After the piece of skin included by those cuts has been reflected towards the ear, the retrahent muscle must be sought beneath the subcutaneous tissue ; it consists of rounded bundles of fibres, and is stronger and deeper than the others. The ATTRAHEXS aure:m (fig. 1, '^^') is a small fan-shaped muscle, and arises from the fore part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis. Its fibres are directed^ downwards and backwards, and are inserted into a projection on the front of the rim of the ear. Beneath it are the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. The ATTOLLEXS AUREM (fig. 1, ^'^) has the same form as the preceding, though its fibres are longer and better marked. Arising also from the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the fibres converge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear,—into an eminence corresponding with a fossa (that of the antihelix) on the opposite aspect. The RETRAHEXS AUREM (fig. 1, consists of two or three roundish but separate bundles of fibres, which are stronger than those of the other muscles. The bundles arise from the root of the mastoid process, and pass almost horizontally forwards to be inserted by tendinous fibres into the lower part of the ear (concha) at its cranial aspect. The auricular branches of the posterior auricular artery and nerve are in contact with this muscle. Action. The three preceding muscles will move the outer ear slightly in the directions indicated by their names : the anterior drawing it upwards and forwards, the middle one upwards, and the posterior backwards. The occiPiTO-FROXTALis MUSCLE (fig. 1, \ covcrs the greater part of the vault of the skull, and consists of anterior and posterior fleshy parts with an intervening aponeurotic tendon. Dissection. To expose the occipito-frontalis, the transverse incision already made on the side of the head is to be prolonged above the eyebrow to the root of the nose, and from the latter spot a cut is to be carried backwards along the middle line of the head to the external occipital protuberance. The flap of skin, thus marked out, is to be raised from before back with the subjacent fat; while doing this the dissector will meet first with the anterior fleshy part of the muscle, next with a white shining thin aponeurosis, and lastly with the posterior fleshy belly towards the lateral aspect of the cranium. The aponeurosis of the muscle is easily taken away with the granular fat superficial to it ; and if the under surface of the flap presents a white instead of a yellow appearance, the student may suspect he is removing that membrane. The i^ostcrior or occijntcd 'part (^) cniscs from the outer half orOCCIPITO-FROXTALIS MUSCLE. 3 more of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, and from tlie Occipital mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The fibres are about one in^endiiTg" inch and a half in length, and ascend to the aponeurosis. The anterior or frontal ijcirt Q) forms a thin layer which covers Frontal about the lower two-thirds of the frontal bone. Its fibres are paler ^^^^' than those of the occipital part, and spring from the aponeurosis tached some distance below the line of the coronal suture. They descend Fig. 1.* to the eyebrow and root of the nose, where they interlace with the fibres of the 'orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii and pyramidalis nasi muscles, and terminate in the subcutaneous tissue. Some fasciculi are frequently attached to the nasal bone internally, and to the external angular process of the frontal bone on the outer side. The right and left muscular portions meet at the lower part of the forehead. The tendon or epicranial ajjoneurosis covers the upper part of the Aponeu- cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the like ^"^^^^ '■ structure of the opposite half of the head. In front, it sends a pointed process downwards for some distance between the two muscular 23ortions; and behind, it is prolonged between the posterior attaci bellies, to be attached to the occipital bone along the highest curved ment, line. From its lateral margin the upper auricular muscles arise, and rela- tions. * ]\Iuscles of the scalp and ear. 1. Anterior, and 4, posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. 15. Attollens aurem. 16. Attrahens aurem. 17. Retra- hens aurem only partly seen. B 2DISSECTIOX OF THE EEAD. Superficial to tlie aponeurosis are the ressels and nerves of tlie scalp and a small quantity of fat, wliicb is traversed by numerous short fibrous bands uniting it closely to the skin. Its deep surface is connected to the pericranium only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that the scalp moves freely over the skull By making a transverse incision tlu'ough the aponeurosis above the ear and separating it from the pericranium towards tlie side of the head, it will be seen to be joined by a thin membrane, which springs from the skull along the superior temporal line, and descends, closely united to the deep surface of the attollens aurem muscle, over the temporal fascia to be attached to the pinna of the ear. Action. "When the anterior belly contracts it raises the cv:' : :-:^-. smoothing the skin at the root of the nose, and wrinkling ti;_ : - ' v that of the forehead ; and continuing to contract, it draws forward the scalj). The posterior belly will move back the scalp ; and the bellies acting in succession can carry the hairy scalp forwai'ds and backwards. Dissection. After the removal of the upper auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epicranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attachment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temporal fascia is a white shining membrane, which is stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; and inferiorly, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygomatic arch. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact A^dth the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the edges of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the superficial temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with an accompanying artery. Dissection. The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the skull, and to be thrown down to the zygomatic arch, in order that the origin of the underlying temporal muscle may be examined. A soft areolar tissue which lies beneath it near the zygoma is to be taken away. The difierence in thickness of parts of the fascia will be evident. The TEMPORAL iiuscLE is laid bare only in part. Wide and thin above, it becomes naiTower and thicker at the lower end. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia, and from the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend, converging to a tendon, which is inserted into the margins and inner surface of the coronoid process of the lower jaw (p. 84).CUTAXEOUS AETEEIES. On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts relations, superficial to that membrane ; and concealed by the muscle are the deep temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle will be seen, and its action explained, in the dissection of the pterygoid region. Dissection. For the dissection of the vessels and nerves, let How to the face be now turned on the left side, and let an incision be on right carried along the eyebrow and the zygomatic arch to a little behind the ear, so as to allow the skin on the right half of the head to be reflected. The flap of the skin is to be raised from before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are fomid. Behind the ear the skin should be raised as on the other side, to imcover the posterior auricular vessels and nerve. Alons; the evebrow seek the branches of vessels and nerves ^^^^ nerves 3.11(i VBSSGiS which come from the orbit (fig. 2), viz., the supraorbital vessels on the and nerve about the middle, and the supratrochlear nerve and ^^r^^^<i' frontal vessels near the inner angle of the orbit; they lie at first beneath the muscular fibres of the frontalis, which must be cut through to find them. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, the superficial 1 IT ' 1 T ^ T -1 1 of the head, temporal vessels and nerve are to he traced upwards ; and above the zygomatic arch the branches of the facial which join an ofiset (J^) of the superior maxillaiy nerve are to be sought. Behind the ear the posterior auricular vessels and nerve, and behind ear, below it branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the pinna are to be found ; one or more ofisets of the last should be followed to the jimction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital vessels, at the bact and the large and small occipital nerves should be denuded; the *^ ^ former nerve lies by the side of the art<;rA', and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. CuTA^s'^Eors Arteeies. The arteries of the scalp (fig. 2) are Vessels of furnished by the internal and external carotid trunks, and anasto- ^® mose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supraorbital and frontal, come from the former ; while three, viz., the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular, are derived from the latter. The SUPRAOEBITAL ARTERY (l; leaves the orbit through the notch Supraorin- in the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some '"^ anery. of its Itranches are superficial to the frontalis and supply the skin ; while others lie beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The FEONTAX AETEEY (h^ is close to the inner angle of the orbit. Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It ends in branches for "^*ry. the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY (c?) is One of the terminal Superficial blanches of the external carotid. After crossiug the zygoma ^^^^ immediately in front of the ear, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branch runs forwards with a serpentine course to anterior andDISSECTIOX OF THE HEAD. 6 scalp. the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supraorbital artery ; this is the branch that is opened when blood is taken from the temporal artery, posterior The posterior branch is larger than the other, and ascends to the blanches. ^^^^ head, over which it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. Its offsets are similar to those of the anterior division, and communicate behind with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Occipital Occipital artery («). The terminal part of this artery, aj)pear- artery. ^^^^ between the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head. Communications take place with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior part of the temporal, and with the following artery. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the occipitalis muscle, the j^ericranium, and the bone. Posterior The POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY (/) appears in front of the artery!'^^ mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One {mastoid) is directed backwards to supply the occipitalis, and anastomose with the occipital artery. The other (auricular) supplies the retrahent muscle, the back of the pinna, and the superficial structures above the ear: offsets from this also pierce the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. Veins of the The Veins of the exterior of the head generally correspond to the arteries in their course, and communicate freely together, as well as with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with the veins of the diploe of the cranial bones. The frontal 'vein is of large size^, and descends to the inner end of the eyebrow, beneath which it is joined by the smaller supraorbital vein : the resulting vessel is known as the angular vein, and forms the commencement of the facial trunk. The temporal vein descends to the temporo-maxillary trunk ; iho, posterior auricular vein to the external jugular ; and the occipital veins join the deep veins at the back of the neck. Nerves of CUTANEOUS Nerves (fig. 2). The nerves of the scalp are fur- the scalp. nished from cutaneous offsets of both cranial and spinal nerves. The half of the head in front of the ear receives branches from the three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few twigs from the facial nerve. The skin of the hinder part of the head is supplied by spinal nerves (anterior and posterior primary branches); and close behind the ear, there is a muscular offset of the facial or seventh cranial nerve. ne?ve-'^^^^^^ The SUPRAORBITAL NERVE (fig. 2,''') comes from the first trunk of the fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its companion artery. It is placed at first beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles, and here gives offsets to these as well as to the pericranium. In the orbicularis a communication is established between this and the facial nerA'e. Finally the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches. its two cuta- The inner of these soon pierces the frontalis, and reaches upwards as liigii as the parietal bone. The outer branch is of larger size, and iieuus andCUTANEOUS NEEYES. 7 perforating the muscle higher up, extends over the head as far as the ear. As the nerve escapes from the supraorbital notch it furnishes some palpebral palpebral filaments to the upper eyelid. branches. Fig. 2.* At the inner angle of the orbit is the small supratrochlear Supratroch- NERVE (Fig. 2,^) from the same trunk. It ascends to the forehead * close to the bone, and piercing the muscular fibres ends in the ^ Nerves and arteries of the scalp. Nerves: 1. Great auricular. 2. Small occipital. 3. Great occipital. 4. Posterior auricular of the facial. Auriculo- temporal (not numbered) in front of the ear, by the side of the temporal artery, d. 5. Supratrochlear. 6. Supraorbital. 10. Temporal of the supe- rior maxillary, and crossing it are the temporal branches of the facial nerve. Arteries: a. Occipital, b. Frontal, c. Supraorbital, d. Superficial tem- poial. /. Posterior auricular. A. Orbital branch of superficial temporal.8 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. palpebral branch. Temporal nerves : of superior maxillary; of inferior maxillary, its auricular branch: and of facial nerve. Posterior auricular nerve has occipital branch, and auri- cular. Great auri- cular nerve. Great occipi tal nerve: junctions. Small occi- pital nerve integument. Branches are given from it to tlie orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, and some palj)ebral twigs enter the upper eyelid. The SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL NERVES are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. The TEMPORAL BRANCH OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (second trunk of the fifth) is a slender twig (fig. 2,^"), which per- forates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch. When cutaneous, the nerve is distributed on the fore part of the temple, and communicates with the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next. The AURicuLO-TEMPORAL NERVE (fig. 2, d), a branch of the inferior maxillary (third trunk of the fifth), makes its appearance with the temporal artery in front of the ear. As soon as it emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two termiucil branches. The posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the integument above the ear. The anterior branch ascends vertically to supply the skin as far as the upper limit of the temporal fossa. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the fore part of the ear above the auditory meatus. The TEMPORAL BRANCHES OF THE FACIAL NERVE are directed up- wards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles : they will be described with the dissection of the facial nerve. The POSTERIOR AURICULAR NERVE (fig. 2, ^) lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoicl foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into occipital and auricular branches. The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies close to the bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structure. The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the small muscles on the posterior surface of the jDinna. The GREAT AURICULAR NERVE of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, .^) is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The GREAT OCCIPITAL (fig. 2, ^) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and lies close to the occipital artery. Spring- ing from the posterior jDrimary branch of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large offsets ; these spread over the posterior part of the head, and terminate in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nerve ; and on the back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The SMALL OCCIPITAL NERVE of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, ^) lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is continued9 DUEA MATER. upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side, viz., the posterior auricular and the great occipital. Usuall}'' this nerve furnishes an lias an auricular branch to the upper part of the pinna on its cranial brancil!* aspect. Section II. IXTEENAL PAETS OF THE HEAD. Dissection. The skull is now to be opened, but before sawing Dissection the bone the dissector should detach, on the right side, the temporal g^^^^^^^*^^^ muscle nearly down to the zygoma, without separating the over- ' lying fascia; and all the remaining soft parts are to be divided by an incision carried around the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the forehead, and as low as the protuberance of the occipital bone behind. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the incision Precautions through the soft parts, but the saw is to cut only through the thrmi^^iTfhe outer table of the bone. The inner table is to be broken through with bone, a chisel, in order that the subjacent membrane of the brain (dura mater) may not be injured. The skullcap is next to be forcibly detached by inserting the fingers between the cut surfaces in front, and the dura mater will then come into view. The DURA MATER is the most external of the membranes in- Dura mater: vesting the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, which serves as an internal periosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and pi-esents, now the bone is appearance separated from it, numerous small fibrous and vascular processes ; surf^cr but these are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the attachment of the dura mater to the bone is more intimate. Rami- fying on the exposed part of the membrane are branches of the large meningeal vessels. Small granular masses, Pacchionian bodies, are also seen close to Pacchionian the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable ; they are but seldom found before the third year, but generally after the seventh, and they increase with age. The surface of the skull is frequently indented by these bodies. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the interior of the dura Cut through mater, divide this membrane with scissors close to the margin of ^^^^^^ "latei. the skull, except in the middle line before and behind, where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be raised on the right side towards the top of the head ; and the veins connecting it with the brain may be broken through. The inner surface of the dura mater is free and smooth, being inner separated from the arachnoid, the second of the coverings of the ^^^^^^'^^ brain, by the cavity known as the subdural space, although the twoDISSECTION OF THE HEAD, 10 and struc- ture. Processes. Falx cei-ebri: form and attach- ments : borders; sinuses in it. Superior longitudinal situation and endiiii. its interior; vems open- in-' into it. Directions for removal of brain. membranes are in tlie natural condition closely applied to one anotlier. The fibrous tissue of wliicli tlie dura mater is composed is so arranged as to give rise to two strata, an external which adheres to the bones, and an internal which is lined by an epithelium similar to that on serous membranes. At certain spots these layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri (fig. 3) is the median sickle-shaped process of the dura mater, which dips in between the hemis2Jheres of the large brain. Its form and extent will be evident if the right half of the brain is gently separated from it. Narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, it widens behind, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater named the ten- torium cerebelli. Its upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the internal occipital protuberance ; and the lower or free border, concave, is turned towards the central portion of the brain (corpus callosum), with which it is in contact posteriorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses :—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in the hinder part of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium. The SUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS (fig. 3, b) exteuds from the ethmoid bone to the internal occipital protuberance. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood through numerous small veins, when pressure is made from before back with the finger along the middle line of the dura mater. "When the sinus is opened it is seen to be narrow in front, and to widen behind, where it ends in a dilatation termed the torcular Herophili, on one side (more frequently the right) of the internal occipital protuberance. Its cavity is triangular in form, with the apex of the space turned to the falx ; and across it are stretched small tendinous cords—chordae Willisii—near the openings of some of the cerebral veins. Frequently small Pacchionian bodies project into the sinus. The sinus receives small veins from the substance of the skull and dura mater, and larger ones from the brain; and the blood flows backwards in it. The cerebral veins open chiefly at the posterior part of the canal, and they lie for some distance against the wall of the sinus before they perforate the dura mater ; their course is directed from behind forwards, so that the current of the blood in them is opposed to that in the sinus : this disposition of the veins may be seen on the left side of the brain, where the parts are undisturbed. Directions. Before the rest of the dura mater can be examined, the brain must be taken from the head. To facilitate its removal, let the head incline backwards, while the shoulders are raised on aEEMOYAL OF THE BRAIN. 11 block, so that the brain may be separated somewhat from the base of the skull. For the division of the cranial nerves a sharp scalpel will be necessary ; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than the other. Removal of the Brain. As a first step cut across the anterior part Mode of of the falx cerebri, and the different cerebral veins entering the and^parts^' longitudinal sinus ; raise and throw backwards the falx, but leave gggjjjj^^^^" it uncut behind. Gently lift up the frontal lobes and the olfactory bulbs of the large brain. Next cut through the internal carotid ^"gg^^g^^j^^^ artery and the second and third nerves, which then appear, together nerves, with some veins descending from the brain ; the large second nerve is placed on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of the artery. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife from the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. A strong horizontal process of next the the dura mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view at the back ' of the cranium. Along its free margin lies the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Make an incision through the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the parts underneath : the following nerves, which will be then visible, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth posterior nerve, consisting of a large and small root ; while nearer the ^^'^^^^^ median plane is the slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, are the seventh and eighth nerves entering the internal auditory meatus, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the foregoing are the ninth, tenth and eleventh nerves in one line :—of these the upper small piece is the ninth or the glosso-pharyngeal; the flat band next below, the tenth or pneumo-gastric; and the long round nerve ascending from the spinal canal, the eleventh or spinal accessory. The remaining nerve nearer the median plane is the twelfth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as vessels, and they wind round the medulla oblongata. Lastly, cut across the sj)inal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of the spinal lastly, the nerves that are attached on each side. Then on placing the first ^^""^^ two fingers of the right hand in the spinal canal, the cord ma}^ be raised, and the whole brain may be taken readily from the skull in the left hand. In doing this some large veins, passing from the hinder part of the cerebral hemisphere to the attached margin of the tentorium, will be broken through, as well as small ones from the portions of the brain in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. Preservation of the hrain. After removing some of the mem- How to pre- branes from the upper part, and making a few apertures through braln.*^^ ' them on the under surface, the brain may be immersed in spirit to harden it. Wrap the brain up in a piece of calico, and then place it upside down in a suitable vessel on the bottom of which some12 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. cotton-wool or tow has been spread, and let it be quite covered with spirit. Examina- Examination of the brain. At the end of two or three days the tionofit. (dissector should exanjine the other membranes and the vessels. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed from the surface of the brain, without detaching the difi'erent cranial nerves at the under surface. The brain may remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed, but it should be turned over occasionally to allow the spirit to penetrate its substance. The description of the brain and its vessels will be found after that of the head and neck. Directions. Directions. After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. For this j)urpose raise the head to a convenient height, and fasten the tentorium in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of a skull while studying the following parts. Dura mater Dura mater. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is skull? much more closely united to the bones than, it is at the top of the skull. Here it follows the different inequalities of the osseous surfaces ; and it sends processes through the several foramina, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. its proloiiga- Beginning the examination in front, the membrane will be found tions, send a prolongation into the foramen csecum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure it joins the peri- osteum of the orbit; and through the optic foramen a sheath is and connec- continued on the optic nerve to the eyeball. In the sella turcica bone.^*^ the dura mater forms a recess which lodges the pituitary body, and behind the dorsum sellse it adheres closely to the basilar process of the occipital bone. From the latter part it may be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very lirmly united. Tentorium The tentorium cerebelli is the process of the dura mater which is cerebeih: interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the small brain (cerebellum) and the posterior part of the large brain (cere- brum). surfaces, Its upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by tlie falx cerebri, and is sloped laterally for the support of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres. Its under surface touches the small brain, and is joined by the falx cerebelli. edges, The anterior concave margin is free, except at the ends where it is fixed by a narrow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or convex edge is connected to the following bones :— occipital (transverse groove), posterior inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. and the Along the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus; and in smuses m it, ° o '13 VEXOUS SINUSES OF CEANIUM. cerebelli the attaclied edge are the lateral and superior petrosal sinuses on each side. The falx cerebelli has a corresponding position below the tentorium Faix to the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller than the falx of the cerebrum, and will appear on detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is adherent to the internal occipital crest, and projects between the hemispheres of the small brain. Its base is directed to the tentorium ; and the apex reaches the foramen contains magnum, on each side of which it gives a small slip. In it is gfuu^l^^^ contained the occipital sinus. The SINUSES are channels for venous blood between the layers Sinuses of of the dura mater. They are arranged in two groups, the one comprising the sinuses that converge towards the internal occipital protuberance, while the other is formed by the cavernous sinuses on the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone and the canals opening into these. A. The superior longitudinal sinus has been described at p. 10. Superior The INFERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS (fig. 3, c) resembles a ^^,^^^^^,1^^^. vein, and is contained in the lower border of the falx cerebri at the gitudinai. posterior part. This vein receives blood from the falx and the large brain, and ends in the straight sinus {d) at the edge of the tentorium. The STRAIGHT SINUS (fig. 3, d) lies along the junction of the falx Straight with the tentorium, extending from the termination of the preceding sinus to the internal occipital protuberance, where it is continued into one of the lateral sinnses, generally tlie left. Its form is triangular, like the superior longitudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinus, the veins of Galen from the interior of Some of the venous sinuses of the skull, a. Torcular Herophili. h. Supe- rior, c. Inferior longitudinal sinus. d. Straight sinus. e. Lateral sinus. (J. Occipital sinus. /. Superior, and Ji. Inferior petrosal sinus.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Occipital sinus. Lateral sinuses : difference on two sides, and tribu- taries. Subdivision of the> jugular foramen. Dissection. Cavernous sinus has nerves in outer wall; contains carotid the large brain, and some small veins from the upper surface of the cerebellum. The OCCIPITAL SINUS (fig. 3, g) is a small canal in the falx cerehelli, which reaches from the torcular Herophili to the foramen magnum, and collects the blood from the lower occipital fossjB. This sinus may be double. The LATERAL SINUSES, right and left, are the channels by which most of the blood passes from the skull. Each extends from the occipital protuberance, along the winding groove on the occipital, parietal and temporal bones, to the jugular foramen, where it ends in the internal jugular vein. The sinus of the right side is generally larger than the left, and begins at the torcular Herophili (p. 10), forming the continuation of the superior longitudinal sinus. The left lateral sinus is mainly prolonged from the ending of the straight sinus, but it is also joined by a branch from the lower end of the superior longitudinal sinus, which crosses obliquely in front of the occipital protuberance. In some cases this arrangement is reversed, so that the torcular Herophili and the larger lateral sinus are placed on the left side ; and occasionally the torcular Herophili forms a common place of meeting (confluence) of the superior longitudinal, the straight and the two lateral sinuses. The lateral sinus is joined by some cerebral and cerebellar veins, and, opi^osite the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, by the superior petrosal sinus. It communicates with the occipital veins through the mastoid foramen, and often with the deep veins of the neck through the posterior condylar foramen. The jugular foramen is divided into three compartments by fibrous bands. Through the posterior opening the lateral sinus j)asses; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus; and through the central one the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves. Dissection. To examine the cavernous sinus on the left side, cut through the dura mater l)y the side of the body of the sphenoid bone from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve ; behind the clinoid process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A 2^robe or a blow-^^ipe will be required, in order that it may be passed into the different sinuses joining the cavernous centre. B. The CAVERNOUS sinus, Avhich has been so named from the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the l)ody of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the sej^aration of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The layer of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth nerves, with the ophthalmic and superior maxillary trunks of the fifth nerve : these lie in the order given from above down. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and is15 MENINGEAL ARTERIES. INT. CAR. ART, VI NERVE NERVE OPHTH. NERVE SUP. MAX. NERVE traversed by a network of slender fibrous cords. Through the space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve on the outer side of the vessel ; but all these are bound to the outer wall of the sinus, and se- Fig. 4.''' parated from the blood in the space by a thin lining mem- brane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic veins from the orbit through the sphenoidal fis- sure, and some inferior cerebral veins. It communicates with its fellow of the opposite side by the inter-cavernous sinuses, and with the pterygoid plexus outside the skull through the foramen ovale and the foramen lacerum. The blood leaves the cavity by the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. The INTERCAVERNOUS SINUSES are two vessels which pass trans- versely in the sella turcica between the right and left cavernous sinuses, being placed one in front of, and the other behind the pituitary body. To the venous ring thus formed around the pituitary body the name of circular sinus has been given. The SUPERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 3,/) lies in a groove in the upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinuses. Small veins from the cerebellum are received into it. The INFERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 3, A) is larger than the superior, and lies in a groove along the line of junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by small veins from the cerebellum, and one from the internal ear. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The BASILAR SINUS or. PLEXUS is a venous network in the substance of the dura mater over the basilar j)rocess of the occipital bone, uniting the inferior petrosal sinuses. Meningeal Arteries. These arteries supplying the cranium and the dura mater come through the base of the skull; tliey are named from their situation in the three fossaj, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are small branches of the anterior ethmoidal artery (p. 46), which enters the skull by the anterior internal orbital canal: they are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The MIDDLE meningeal arteries are three in number: two, named large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary trunk ; and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillary artery appears through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and artery and sixth nerve tributaries and com- munica- tions. Intercavern- ous or circular Superior petrosaL Inferior jjetrosal. Basilar plexus. Arteries of dura mater are :— Anterior meningeal. Middle meningeal. Large from internal maxillary * Transverse section of the cavernous sinus (after Langer).16 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. gives brandies to dura mater and bone. Small meningeal. One from ascending pliaryngeal. Posterior meningeal. Nerves of dura mater. Cranial nerves in the base of the skull: only partly seen. Olfactory nerves end in the nose. divides into two principal branches. Tlie larger of tliese enters the deep groove on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and ends in ramifications which extend upwards to the top of the head and forwards over the frontal bone. The posterior branch is distributed over the hinder part of the parietal and the upper part of the occipital bones. Two veins accompany this artery. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, it furnishes branches to the dura mater and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One small offset, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the surrounding bone. One or two branches pass through the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. h: The small meningeal branch is an off'set of the large one outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery comes through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). This is seldom injected, and is not often visible. The POSTERIOR MENINGEAL ARTERIES are Small twigs of the ascending pharyngeal which enter the skull by the anterior condylar and jugular foramina, and supply the dura mater in the neighbour- hood, and a branch of the vertebral artery which is distributed over the lower part of the occipital bone. The branch coming through the jugular foramen is sometimes derived from the occipital artery. Meningeal Nerves. Ofisets to the dura mater are derived from the fifth, tenth and twelfth cranial nerves, and from the sympathetic. Cranial Nerves (fig. 5). As the cranial nerves pass through their apertures in the base of the skull they are invested by processes of the memliranes of tlie brain, which are thus disposed : —-those of the dura mater and pia mater are continued into the sheath of the nerve ; while that of the arachnoid, except in the case of the second nerve, terminates as the nerve enters the dura mater. Some of the nerves in the middle fossa of the skull pierce the dura mater before they reach the foramina of exit. The nerves are arranged in twelve pairs, which are enumerated from before backwards in the order in which they perforate the dura mater. Only part of the intracranial course of each nerve will be seen at this stage, the rest will be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. The first or olfactory nerves are about twenty small filaments which arise from the olfactory bulb of the brain (fig. 36) Second nerve passes to the eye. Dissection of third and fourtli nerves: to the nose through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The second or optic nerve (fig. 5, diverging to the eyeball from its commissure, enters the orbit through the optic foramen : accompanying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissection. The third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve, lie in the outer wall of the cavernousNEEYES IN BASE OF SKULL. 17 sinus ; and to see them, it will be necessary to trace tliem tlirougli the dura mater towards the orbit. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the of fiftii fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, as in fig. 4, taking away the dura mater from them, and from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which lies on the fore part of the petrous portion of the temporal Ijone. From the front of the ganglion arise two other large trunks besides the ophthalmic, viz., superior and inferior maxillary, and these should also be traced to their apertures of exit from the skull. If the dura mater is removed entirely from the bone near the nerves a better view will be obtained. The THIRD or oculomotor nerve (fig. 5, ^) is destined for the Third nerve muscles of the orbit. It enters the wall of the cavernous sinus near the anterior clinoid process, and is placed at first above the other nerves ; but when it is about to enter the orbit through the Cranial nerves in the base of the skull. On the left side the dura mater has been removed from the middle fossa to show the nerves in the wall of the cavernous sinus, the Oasserian ganglion,, and the three trunks of the fifth nerve. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Second to sixth nerves. 7. Facial and auditory. 8. Glosso-iDharyngeal, vagus and spinal accessory. 9. Hypoglossal. On the right side the dura mater is untouched, f Offset to the tentorium from the ophthalmic nerve. CDISSECTIOX OF THE HEAD. 18 losses to «)rbit. Fourth uene in the wall of sinus. Fifth nen ( lias two roots. Lav; and Gassc rian gang- h'on on it gives three branches. Small root. DiflFerence in the use of the roots. Ophthalmic nerve enters orbit; sphenoidal fissure, it sinks below- the fom-th and a part of the fifth, and di^ddes into two branches. Xear the orbit the nerve is joined by one or two delicate filaments from the cavernous plexus (p. 20). The FOURTH or trochlear xerve (fig. 4, courses forwards to one muscle in the orbit. It is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and pierces the diu^a mater at the free edge of the tentorium, close behind the posterior cliiioid process. In the wall of the sinus it lies beloAV the third; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it rises higher than aU the other nerves. "UTiile in the wall of the sums the fourth nerve is joined liy t%vigs of the sympathetic. Fifth or trifacial xErve (fig. 5, This nerve is distributed to the face and head, and consists of two parts or roots—a large or sensor}-, and a small or m.otor. The large root of the nerve passes through an aperture in the dura mater into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, where it immediately enters the Gasserian ganglion. The Gasserian ganglion, placed in a depression close to tiie point of the petrous part of the temporal bone, is flattened, and about half an inch T;\ide. The uj)per surface of the ganglion is closely imited to the dura mater, and presents a semilunar elevation, the convexity of which looks forwards. Some filaments from the X^lexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the three following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and highest, is destined for the orbit and forehead, Xext in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary ner\-e, passes through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. The small root, lying in the same tube of the dura mater as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion without communicating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion : if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion wLich are rmconnected with the small or motor root, viz., the ophthalmic and suj^erior maxillary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxillary, which is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. It will moreover be subsequently seen that the fibres of the motor root are almost entirely confined to the part of the inferior maxillary nerve supjjlying the muscles of the lower jaw, and that the larger branches of the nerve are wholly sensory in function. The ojjhthalrnic nerve is the only one of the three trunks which needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is continued through the sj^henoidal fissure and the orbit to the fore- head. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Xear the orbit it divides into three branches (p. 40).19 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 111 this situation it is joined by lilaments of the cavernous })k^xus supplies of the s}-nipathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (tig. 4, t) lu^iYs course, to the tentorium cerehelli. The SIXTH or abducent nerve (fig. 5, ^) enters the orbit sixth nerve throuCTli the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital '"i t :i\ c-rn- o i _ ' -Ti _ ous sums; muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, to gain the outer wall with the other nerves. In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of joins syui- the carotid artery ; and it is joined l)y one or two large Ijranches of i'-'^^^^^^^- the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. The SEVENTH or facial and the eighth or auditory nerves seventh and (fig. 5, ') pass together into the internal auditory meatus, the facial |,'erves leave being the smaller and hio-her of tlie two. xAt the bottom of the ^^"^i . . ""ether. meatus they separate ; the facial nerve courses through the acjueduct " of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. The NINTH or glosso-pharyngeal, the tenth, PNEUMO-GASTRIC Xinth, or VAGUS, and the eleventh or spinal accessory nerves (fig. 5, -) eleVentll' pass through the middle compartment of tlie jugular foramen. The glosso-pharyngeal is external to the other two, and has a distinct jugular opening in the dura mater. The spinal accessory nerve ascends through the foramen magnum and, together with the vagus, enters an aperture in the dura mater close to the occipital bone. The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve (fig. 5, °) is the motor Twelfth nerve of the tongue, and consists of two small pieces, which pierce the dura mater sepaiately opposite the anterior condylar foramen; these imite at the outer part of that aperture. Dissection. The dissector may now return to the examination of Dissection the trunk of the carotid artery as it winds through the cavernous ' smus. On the opposite side of the head, on which the nerves in the of sympa- wall of the cavernous sinus are imtouched, an attempt may be made ^,se^'' ^' "^^^ to find two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery, though in an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. One of these (cavernous) is near the root of the anterior clinoid cavernous 2:)rocess; and to bring it into view it will he necessary to cut oft' that piece of bone, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between them and the plexns. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth carotid, nerves, suiTOunds the artery as it enters the sinus. The internal carotid artery appears in the cranium at the internal apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In tliis part of its artery course the vessel lies between the layers of the dura mater bound- ing the cavernous sinus along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two bends so as to have the form of the letter S reclined. It first ascends in the inner part of the foramen lacerum, winds and then runs forwards to the root of the anterior clinoid process ; cavernous finally it turns upwards in the groove on the inner side of this pro- sinus, cess, perforates the draa mater forming the roof of the sinns, and c 220 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Branches. Syrapatheti(^ forms carotid plexus, cavernou>- plexus, union Avith cranial nerves. Distribu- tion. Two super- ficial petro- sal nerves. Directions lor preser\ - ing parts. divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympa- thetic in the neck (p. 115). The hranches of the artery here are few. In the sinus there are some small arteries (arterice receptaculi) for the supply of the dura mater and the bone, the nerves, and the pituitary body : and oppo- site the anterior clinoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissection of the base of the brain (p. 186). Sympathetic Nerve. Accompanying the carotid artery is a pro- longation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which forms the following plexuses : — The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous siims, and communicates with the sixth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is mainly derived from that offset of the upper cervical ganglion which courses along the inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either sepa- rately from, or in conjimction with the nasal nerve. After forming these plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are continued on the cerebral and ophthalmic branches of that vessel. Petrosal nerves. Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 38, ^) entering the hiatus Fallopii to join the facial nerve. External to this is sometimes seen the sruall superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 38, but this is frequently concealed in the substance of the temporal bone. The source and destination of these small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to notice their position, and to see that they are kept moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. Now that the study of the base of the skull has been completed a preservative fluid or salt should be applied, and the flaps of skin should be stitched together over all. Section III. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Directions, Directions. Tlie muscles and vessels are to be dissected together on the left side of the face, and the right side is to be kept for the nerves. Position of Position. The head is to be lowered from the position in which head. -^^ ^^^^ placed for the examination of the base of the skull, and turnedMUSCLES OF THE NOSE. 21 so that the side of the face to be dissected is upwards: tix it in this position with hooks. Dissection. As a preparatory step, the muscukr fibres of the Dissection, apertures may be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantity of tow or cotton wool between the eyelids and the eyeball, and between the lips and the teeth. First lay bare the sphincter muscle of the eyelids by making a How to skin-deep incision over the margin of the orbit, and raising the skin skhrfrom of the lids towards the aperture of the eye. Much care must be eyelids, taken in detaching the skin from the thin and pale fibres of the orbicular muscle in the lids, as there is but little areolar tissue between the two. Next the integument is to be removed from the side of the face from tixe by one incision in front of the ear from above the zygomatic arch to the angle of the jaw, and another along the base of the jaw to the chin: a cut should also ])e made along the free margin of each lip from the centre to the angle of the mouth, and another round the edge of the nostril. The flap of skin is to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. On the side, of the nose the skin is closely united to the subjacent and from parts, and must be detached with caution. Around the mouth is of ; the orbicular muscle of the lips, and from this many fleshy slips extend both upwards and downwards, but they are all marked so io clean distinctly as to escape injury, with the exception of the small ."i-ound^ risorius muscle which goes from the corner of the mouth towards mouth, the ramus of the lower jaw. While removing the fat from the muscles, each fleshy slip may be tightened with hooks. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view as the Facial muscles are cleaned ; but the nerves may be disregarded on this side. In front of the ear is the parotid gland, the duct of which is to ai«i parotid be preserved : this is on a level with the meatus auditorius, and ^ " pierces the middle of the cheek. Muscles of the Face (fig. 7). Tlie superficial muscles of the in the face face are disposed in three groups : one of the nose, another of the fOTn^three^ eyelids and eyebrow, and a third of the aperture of the mouth. One groups, of the muscles of mastication, viz., the masseter, is partly displayed at the hinder part of the face, covering the ramus of the lower jaw. Muscles of the Nose (fig. 6). These muscles are the following : Muscles of pyramidalis nasi, compressor naris, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, dilatator naris, and depressor alse nasi. The PYRAMIDALIS NASI (fig. 6,') is a small fleshy slip that covers Pyramidalis the nasal bone, and appears to be a continuation of the innermost part of the frontalis muscle. Its fibres are attached above to the skin of the forehead ; below, they end in the aponeurosis of the compressor muscles over the cartilaginous j)art of the nose. Its inner border meets the muscle of the opposite side. Action. Tliis muscle draws down the skin of the centre of the use. forehead, and produces transverse wrinkles at the root of the nose. Compressor naris. This muscle (fig. 6,^) is not well seen till Coiupressor after the examination of the following one, by which it is partly 'DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 22 concealed. Tiiangiilar in shape, it arises by its apex from the upper maxillary bone near the anterior nasal aperture. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, which covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and is continued into the opposite muscle, use. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous j)art of the nose, and depresses the tip of the organ. Common The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL^QUE NASI (fig. 6,^) is placed wfng^of nose ^he side of the nose, and aHses from the nasal process of the and upper upper maxillary bone, in front of the attachment of the orbicularis. The fibres pass downwards, and the most internal are attached by narrow slij^ to the ala of the nose, while the rest are inserted into the adjoining part of the skin of the upper lip. Near its origin the muscle is partly concealed by the orbicu- Fig. 6/:- laris paljDebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border 1 joins the elevator of the upper lip. ^se Action. This muscle raises the upper lip and wing of the nose, forming wrinkles in the overlying skin. Dilator of ^ DILATATOR NARis. In the dense tissue "^^^^■'^ • ' ii'ifij '' '/A on the outer side of the nostril are a few muscular fibres, both at the fore and back j)art of that aj)erture (fig. 6, and '"), to which the above name has been given: they are seldom visible without a lens. The anterior slij) {^) passes from the car- tilage of the aperture to the integument of the margin of the nostril ; and the posterior (') arising from the upper jaw-bone and the small quadrate cartilages, ends also in the integuments of the nostril. Action. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by raising and everting the outer edge. Depressor of The DEPRESSOR ALJs NASI (fig. 6,") will be Seen if the up23er lip is everted, and the mucous membrane is removed by the side of the frsenum of the lip. It arises below the nose from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and ascends to be inserted into the sej^tum narium and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Action. By drawing down and turning in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the aperture to its usual size, nmscies of MuscLES OF THE Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- eyeiids and brow are four in number, viz., orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, levator palpebrce superioris, and tensor tarsi j* : the two latter are dissected in the orbit, and will be then described. Muscles of the nose. ]. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and Hp. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. The two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Depressor alje nasi. 7. Naso-labial slip of orbicularis oris. t The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 49) is sometimes described as a part of the orbicularis. anterior and posterior parts ; brow.MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS. 23 The ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM (fig. 7, ") is the sphincter muscle Orbicularis closing the opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, ^ujj^^^^" Avhich extends from the margin of the lids beyond the cir- cumference of the orbit. From a difference in the characters of the fibres, a division has been made of them into two parts—outer and two parts, inner. The external fibres (orbital part), the best marked, are fixed only Orbital or at the inner side of the orbit. This attachment (origin) is connected with the borders of the internal tarsal ligament ; above the ligament fnternaiiy. with the nasal j^rocess of the superior maxillary, and the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; and below the ligament with the orbital margin of the superior maxillary bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards the outer edge of the muscle, where they project beyond the margin of the orbit. Some of the ]3eripheral fibres spread upwards to the skin of the forehead, and others downwards to that of the cheek. The internal fibres (palpebral part), paler and finer than the outer, internal or occupy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the outer and inner sides partf^^^^ of the orbit. Internally they arise from the internal tarsal liga- ment : externally they end in the external tarsal ligament, by means attached at of which they are attached to the malar bone, and a few may blend with the orbital part. Close to the cilia or eyelashes the fibres form Ciiiary a small pale bundle, which is sometimes called ciliary. bundle. The muscle is subcutaneous ; and its circumference is blended Relations. al)ove with the frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supraorbital vessels and nerve ; and beneath the lower half is jjart of the elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres are joined occasionall}^ by slips to other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Action. The inner fibres cause the lids to approach each other, use of inner shutting the eye ; and in forced contraction the outer commissure is ^'^^^ drawn inwards. In closing the eye the lids move unequally—the upper being much depressed, and the lower slightly elevated and moved horizontally inwards. When the outer fibres contract, the eyebrow is depressed, and the outer fibres, skin over the edge of the orbit is raised around the eye, so as to protect the ball. Elevation of the upper lip accompanies contrac- tion of the outer part of the orbicularis, owing to the associated action of the levator labii superioris and zygomatic muscles. The CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII is beneath the orbicularis, near the Corrugator inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the inner part of the ^"P^^^'^" superciliary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed outwards between the bundles of the orbicularis to be inserted into the skin inserted into above the inner half of the eyebrow. It is a short muscle, and is "^^"^ • distinguished by the closeness of its fibres. Action. It draws inwards and downwards the mid-part of the use. eyebrow, wrinkling vertically the skin near the nose, and stretching that outside its place of insertion.DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 24 Muscles of Muscles of the Mouth. The muscles of the mouth and lips tiie mouth, jj^^^ude elevators of the upper lip and angle of the mouth, depressors of the lower lip and angle of the mouth, an elevator of the lower lip, retractors of the corner, and a wide muscle of the cheek closing the space between the jaws. Lastly, an orbicular muscle surrounds the opening. Elevator of The LEVATOR LABii suPERiORis (fig. 7, extends vertically from upper bp: ^-j^g lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises from the uj^per maxillary and malar bones above the infraorbital fora- men, and is inserted below into the skin of the upper lip, its fibres interlacing with those of the orbicularis. Near the orbit the muscle is overlajiped by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but below that spot it rt'iatious; is subcutaneous. By its inner side it joins the common elevator of tlie ala of the nose and upper lip; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infraorbital vessels and nerve. ■* 1. Frontalis muscle. 4. Occipitalis. 2. Orbicularis palpebrarum. 3. Levator labii superioris alteque nasi. 5. Compressor naris. 6. Levator labii superioris. 7. Zygomaticus minor (too large). 8. Zygomaticus major. 9. Risorius. 10. Masseter. 11. Orbicularis oris. 12. Depressor labii inferioris. 13. Depressor anguli oris. 14. Buccinator. t Levator anguli oris.MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 25 Action. By the action of this muscle the upper lip is raised, and use. the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS (fig. 7, is Opposite the Depressor of elevator of the u^iper lip, and has mucli yellow fat mixed with its ^"^^^'^i'J^^^ • fibres. The muscle has a wide origm from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching from near the symphysis to a little beyond the mental foramen; ascending thence it is inserted into the skin of the lower li^D. Its inner border joins in the lip the muscle of the opposite side ; and its outer is overlapped by the depressor anguli oris. Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same use. side is dej^ressed and everted ; but by the use of both muscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwards, and rendered tense at the centre. The LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS (fig. 7, f) lias M'cll-marked fibres, Elevator of and is partly concealed by the levator labii superioris. Arising from the canine fossa below the infraorbital foramen, its fibres descend towards the angle of the mouth, where they are superficial to the buccinator, and are j^artly inserted into the skin, but the greater enters orbi- number are continued into the orbicularis of the lower lip. cuiarih. Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts use. as an antagonist to the depressor. The DEPRESSOR ANGULI ORIS (fig. 7, is triangular in shape. Depressor It ftmes from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower jaw ; and ascending to the angle of the mouth, a few of its fibres are there vnserted into the skin, but the greater number decussate with also joins those of the elevator muscle and pass into the upper part of the orbicuians: orbicularis. The depressor conceals the mental branches of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. It is united at its origin with the platysma myoides, and near its insertion with the risorius muscle. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards by it, as use. is exemplified in a sorrowful countenance. The ZYGOMzVTic MUSCLES (fig. 1, ' and ^) are directed obliquely ^J^^'^^^^'^'^ from the malar bone towards the angle of the mouth and the upper lip. One is longer and larger than the other ; they are therefore named major and minor. The zygomaticus major (^) arises from the outer part of the malar large and bone, and is inserted into the skin and mucous membrane at the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor (') arises from the malar bone in front of small: the major, and blends with the elevator of the upper lip. Actio7i. The large muscle draws upwards and backwards the use. corner of the mouth, as in laughing ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upper lip. The RISORIUS MUSCLE (fig. 7, ^) is a thin bundle of fibres, some- Risorius times divided into two or more parts, which arises externally from "^""^^^^ • the fascia, over the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Actio7i. It retracts the corner of the mouth in smiling, use. The BUCCINATOR (fig. 7, is the flat and thin muscle of the Buccinator muscle:DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 26 origin; insertion at corner of the mouth ; parts in con tact with it use on aperture, on cheek, in expelling Orbicular muscle of lips includes fibres of buccinator, levator and depressor anguli oris, naso-labial and incisive slips. Special fibres of lips. clieek, and occupies the interval between the jaws. It arises from the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxillae, as far forwards in each as the first molar tooth ; and in the interval lietween the jaws behind it is attached to a tendinous band known as the pterygo-niaxillary ligament. From this origin the fibres are directed forwards to the lips, where they pass into the orbicularis ; and as most of the up])er fibres descend to the lower lip while the lower ones ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at the corner of the mouth. The highest and lowest fibres enter the corresponding lip. On the cutaneous surface of the buccinator are the difi'erent muscles converging to the angle of the mouth ; and crossing the uj^per part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle opposite the second upper molar tooth. Internally the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and ex- ternally it is covered by a fascia (bucco-pharyngeal) that is con- tinued to the pharynx. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Action. By one muscle the corner of the mouth is retracted, and by the action of both the aperture of the mouth is widened trans- versely. In mastication the cheek is pressed by the muscular contraction against the dental arches, while the corner of the mouth is fixed by the orbicularis. In the expulsion of air from the mouth, as in whistling, the muscle is contracted so as to prevent bulging of the cheek ; but in the use of a blow-pipe it is stretched over the volume of air contained in the mouth, and maintains a continuous stream by its contraction during inspiration. The ORBICULARIS ORIS is mainlj^ formed by the prolongation of the fibres of the levator and depressor anguli oris and buccinator muscles. The buccinator fibres lie next to the mucous membrane, and are continued across from side to side. Those of the elevator and depressor muscles, having crossed at the corner of the mouth, turn inwards in the opposite lip, in front of the buccinator fibres, and are inserted into the skin, for the most part crossing the middle line and decussating with the fibres entering on the other side. A compact superficial fasciculus at the red margin of the lip is formed solely by buccinator fibres. In the upper lip there are also two slips arising, the one (naso-labial, fig. 6, ') from the hinder part of the septum narium, the other (incisive) from the outer j)art of the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and directed outwards to the corner of the mouth ; while in the lower lip there is a similar incisive slip attached to the incisor fossa of the inferior maxilla. To see these attachments, the lip must be everted and the mucous membrane carefully raised. Towards the free margin in each lip there are fibres directed ob- liquely from the skin to the mucous membrane, between the fasciculi of the orbicularis : they constitute the muse, lahii 'proiwiiis.VESSELS OF THE FACE. 27 The inner margin of the orbicularis is free, and bounds the aper- Relations of ture of the month ; the outer edge blends with the difierent muscles 0"^^^^"^^"^' that elevate or depress the lips and the angle of the mouth. Between the orbicularis and the mucous membrane in each lip are the coronary artery and the labial glands. Action. The buccal portion of the muscle flattens the lips against and use. the teeth, turns inwards the red margin, and gives a linear form to the aperture. The superficial portion, derived from the muscles of the angle of the mouth, brings the lips together both vertically and horizontally, so as to diminish the size of the opening, and causes the free edges of the lijjs to protrude. The LEVATOR MENTi (levator labii inferioris) is a small muscle Elevator of on the side of the fr£enum of the lower lip, which is ojDposite the depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the lip has been everted and the mucous membrane removed, the muscle will be seen to arise from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its posi- tion is internal to the depressor of the lip and the attachment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the chin opposite its insertion, and use. assists in raising the lower lip. The j^rincipal Vessels op the Face (fig. 19) are the facial and Arteries of transverse facial arteries with their acconi2)anying veins. The arteries are branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The FACIAL artery (fig. 19, g), a branch of the carotid, emerges Facial from the neck, and crosses the base of the lower jaw immediately in ^^^^^^ ■ front of the masseter muscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner margin of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively course superficial in the mass of fat of the inner part of the clieek. At first it is concealed by the platysma while crossing the jaw, but and reia- this thin muscle does not prevent pulsation being recognised during ^"^"^' life ; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the artery is the facial vein, which takes nearly a straight course, and lies to its outer side. Branches. From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches plan of the are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some of which anas- tomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches :— The inferior labial branch {t) runs inwards beneath the depressor inferior anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lip and chin; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches {r and s). These are one for each lijD (superior Two and inferior), which arise together or separately from the facial, form an^ and are directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the ^^^^}- ^J} each lip :DISSECTION OF THE FACE. mucous membrane of the lip to inosculate with tlie corresponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed offsets are supplied to the structures of the lip. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to each side of the septum narium,—artery of the septum. The lateral nasal branch {p) arises opposite the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alseque nasi to the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic artery. The amjular branch (o) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at the inner angle of the orlnt, and joins the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The FACIAL VEIN commences at the root of the nose in a vein named angular (p. 6). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and, separating from the artery, courses beneath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Branches. At the inner side of the orbit the angular vein receives veins from the upper eyelid {superior pjalpebral) and from the side of the nose. Below the orbit the facial trunk is joined by veins from the lower eyelid {inferior palpebral), as well as by a large branch, anterior internal maxillary or deep facial vein, that comes from the plexus in the pterygoid region (p. 90) ; and thence to its termination by veins corresponding with the blanches of the artery in the face and neck. The TRANSVERSE FACIAL ARTERY (fig. 19) is a branch of the superficial temporal, and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes off'sets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in front of the ear may be next displayed. To see the gland, raise the skin from the surface towards the ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygomatic arch and the cartilage of the ear, but is continued in front over the masseter muscle ; this is to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auricular nerve will be seen ascending to the lobule of the ear; and three or four small lympliatic glands rest on the surface of the parotid. The PAROTID (fig. 17, ^*') is the largest of the salivary glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined by the surrounding parts. Thus below, where there is not any resisting structure, the parotid j^rojects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the submaxillary gland, though separated from it by29 PAROTID GLAND. a process of tlie cervical fascia ; a horizontal line from tlie angle of relations; the jaw to the sterno-niastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the gland in this direction. Above, the parotid is limited by the zygomatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly, the gland projects somewhat into the face over the masseter muscle, and has connected with it in this situation a small accessory part, known as the socia accessory imrotidis. Issuing from the anterior border is the excretory duct—dmt of The duct Stenson (ductus Stenonianus, fig. 19), which crosses the masseter mouth : below the socia parotidis, and perforates the buccinator and the mucous membrane of the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face ; and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and a half; its length and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and tliree or four^^'^^f^ce of lymphatic glands are seated on it : but from the deep part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection. By removing with caution the parotid gland, the J^'l^g^^^gi'^ hollows that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dis- parte! *^ sector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An ex- amination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the clangers attending any operation on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the position and the diminished size of the aperture. Two large' processes of the gland extend deeply into the neck. behhid One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the jaw. mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, where it reaches the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Coursing through the middle of the gland is the external carotid Vessels and artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furnishes the posterior auricular, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Superficially to the artery lies the truuk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins ; and this common trunk, receiving some veins from the parotid, divides near the angle of the jaw into two branches, the anterior of which passes downwards to join the facial vein, while the posterior inclines back- wards over the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and is continued into the external jugular vein (fig. 16). Crossing the. vessels in the gTand. the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve,30 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. ObAious structure of gland. Vessels and nerves. Molar glands. External nose: its parts, and frame- work. Nasal cartilages Take away tissue from surface. The upper cartilage joins the septal. which divides here into its primary hranches. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve lies above the upper part of the glandular mass ; and offsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. In dissecting out the gland it has been seen to consist of a number of lobules separated by connective tissue sej)ta. From the lobules small ducts arise, and these join together so as to give rise to two large tubes, which are placed superficially to the branches of the facial nerve in the gland, and by their union opposite the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw form the beginning of Stensen's duct. As it crosses the masseter the main duct receives one or more small branches from the socia parotidis. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of the fifth, and facial. Its Z^/m^/ift^n'cs join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands lie on the surface of the buccina- tor, and open into the mouth near the last molar teeth by separate ducts. The Nose has the form of a three-sided pyramid, which is attached to the face by one of its surfaces, while the base is free. The lateral surfaces meet anteriorly in a rounded edge termed the dorsum, the upper part of which is known also as the bridge. The lower and posterior part of each lateral surface is convex and marked oflF by a curved groove, constituting the ala. The base presents the oval apertures of the nostrils or anterior nares, separated by a short thick j)artition, the septum narium or columna nasi The shape of the nose is maintained by a of the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones above, and of the cartilages of the nose below, in the part corresponding to the anterior nasal aperture of the skull. Cartilages of the Nose (fig, 8). These are five in number, one in the centre, the car- tilage of the septum., and two on each side, the lateral cartilage and the cartilage of the aperture. They are all hyaline cartilage, but do not show any tendency to become ossified. Only the la- teral cartilages are learnt in this stage of the dissection. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen Avhen the muscular and fibrous structures of the left side of the nose have been taken away. By turning aside the lateral cartilages the septal one will aj^pear in the middle line. The lateral cartilage (upper hit. cart. ; fig. 8, ^) is fiattened, and triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal and u^Djier maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it joins the cartilage of the septum framework consisting * Cartilages of the nose. 1. Septal cartilage. 2. Lateral cartilage. 3. Cartilage of the aperture, its outer part, and 4, its inner part. 5. Nasal bone.31 APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. above, but is separated from it by a narrow cleft below. Inferiorly, the lateral cartilage is contiguous to tlie cartilage of the aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. The cartilage of the a'perture (lower lat. cart. ; fig. 8) forms a ring The lower around the opening of the nose except behind. It has not any aJStJIre attachment directly to bone ; but it is united above to the lateral jiq^ inserted cartilage by fibrous tissue, and below with the dense teguments form- "i^^o i^f»ne. ing the ala of the nose and the margin of the nostril. The part of the cartilage (^) which bounds the opening externally One part is narrow and pointed behind, where it forms two or three vertical ^"^^i'^*^» folds, and sometimes becomes divided into as many small pieces— cartilagines quadratce; but it swells out in front where it touches its accessory fellow, and forms the apex of the nose. cartilages; The inner part (^) is shorter and narrower. It projects backwards another in- in the columna nasi below the level of the anterior end of the septal "^'^^'^ cartilage, being attached to this and to its fellow of the opposite side by fibrous tissue, and reaches nearly to the superior maxillary bone. The Appendages of the Eye include the eyebrow, the eyelid, and the lachrymal apparatus. Some of these can be examined now " on the opposite side of the face. The apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been completed. The eyebrow (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above the eye Eyebrow, which is placed over the orbital arch of the frontal bone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the subjacent orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii muscles. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids (palpebrse) are two moveable semilunar folds in front Eyelids, of the eye, which can be ajDproached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the larger and more moveable, and descends below ^PP^^f the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named the palpebral fissure. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free border of each lid is somewhat thickened, and presents Shape of a narrow surface which meets the opposite lid when the aperture is closed, and is bounded towards the eyeball by a sharp smooth edge ; but at the inner end, for about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it is somewhat thinner and more rounded. At the spot where the two parts join is a small white eminence (fig. 14, ^), Papilla, the papilla lachrymalis ; and in this is tlie lacJirymale, or the Punctum. opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near ^ g^y^^^"'^ the posterior edge with a row of small 023enings of the Meibomian glands ; but both the cilia and the glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of the punctum lachrymale. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of curved hairs, which Eyelashes, are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centreDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 32 to tlie sides. Tlie cilia of tlie two lids are convex towards one another, and cross wlien the lids are shut, piitrin^ Structure of the Eyelids. Each lid consists fundamentally eyelids. of a fibrous plate attached to the bone by ligaments. Superficial to this framework are the integuments with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it the mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid includes also the tendon of the levator pal])ebra3. Vessels and nerves are contained in the lids. Dissect lids. Dissection. The student may examine the structure of the lids on the left side, on which the muscles are dissected. The bit of tow or wool may remain beneath the lids ; and the palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle is to l)ethi'own inwards by an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the thin membranous palpebral fascia beneath, and of vessels and nerves of the lid. Layer of Orbicularis "palpehrarum. The palpebral fibres of this muscle oi icu.uis. ^Q^^-^ p^^jg layer which reaches the free edge of the eyelids (p. 23). A thin stratum of areolar tissue without fat unites the muscle with the skin. i\ ^'""^ '^^^^ palpebral fascia is a thin fibrous layer, which is continued from the margin of the orbit to join the anterior surface of the fibrous tarsal plate. At the inner part of the orbit the ligament is thin and loose, but at the outer part it is somewhat thicker and strongei'. A fibrous The fibroiis plates (tarsi), one for each eyelid, are elongated ilart^of tiifT transversely, and give strength to the lids. Each is fixed internally ^'•^ '• and externally by fibrous bands—the tarsal or palpebral ligaments, to the margin of the orbit. The border corresponding with the edge of the lid is free, and thicker than the rest of the plate. On the deep surface each tarsus is lined by the conjunctiva, dififerenoein The tarsi are not alike in the two lids. In the upper eyelid, the tA\() lids, ^^jjgj.g ^jjg fibrous plate is larger, it is crescentic in shape, and is nearly half an inch wide in the centre ; and to its fore part the tendon of the levator palpebrae is attached. In the lower lid the tarsus is a narrow band, al)out two lines broad, with nearly straight borders. Ligaments The internal tarsal lujainent (tendo pali)ebrarum) is a small fibrous attach tarsal band at the inner side of the orbit, which serves to fix the lids, and is plates. attached to the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove in the upper jaw. It is about a quarter of an inch long, and divides into two processes, which are united with the tarsal plates, one to each. This ligament crosses the lachrymal sac, behind which it sends a fibrous expansion ; and the fleshy fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise from it. The external tarsal ligament is a much weaker band uniting the tarsi to the malar bone. Sebaceous The Meibomian or tarsal glands are embedded in the substance of u es in u . ^j^^ tarsal plates, and can be readily seen through the conjunctiva on the posterior surface of the lids. They extend, parallel to one another, from the free towards the opposite margin of the tarsus ; and their number is about thirty in the upper, and twenty in the33 APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. lower lid. The apertures of the glands open in a line at the free border of the lid near the posterior edge. Each gland is a small yellowish tube, closed at one end, and their having minute lateral ctecal appendages connected with it. The secretion is similar to that of the sebaceous glands of the skin. If the palpebral fascia be cut through in the upper lid, the tendon Tendon of of the levator palpehrce will be seen to be inserted into the fore part of paipebrse. the tarsus hj a wide aponeurotic expansion. The conjunctiva, or mucous membrane, lines the interior of the Mucous lids, from which it is reflected to tlie front of the eyeball. The line '"^^"^ of reflection is known as the fornix conjiinctivcc, and is placed, above and below, some distance beyond the convex margin of the tarsus. Inside the lids the conjunctiva is inseparably nnited to the tarsi, and has numerous fine papillae. At the free margin of the lids it joins the skin, and through the lachrymal canals and nasal duct it is con- tinuous with the pituitary membrane of the nose. Between the eyeball and the inner commissure of the lids is seen Caruncle a prominent and fleshy-looking body—carnncula lachrymalis (fig. 14, '^), which contains a group of glands, and has a few minute hairs on its surface. External to the caruncle is a small vertical fold of and con- the mucous membrane—^j^/tca semilunaris, resting on the inner part ^'S^ous fold, of the eyeball. Blood-vessels of the eyelids. The arteries of the eyelids are Arteries of furnished b}^ the palpebral and lachrymal branches of the opli- ^^'^^' thalmic artery :— The jjft^j9e6raZ arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from palpebral the inner canthus, lying between the tarsal -plate and the orbicular jnuscle, and anastomose externally with the lachrymal artery. From each arch branches are distributed to the structures of the lid. The terminal portion of the lachrymal artery perforates the and lachry- palpebral fascia at the outer part of the orbit, and, after having given small offsets to the upper eyelid, divides into two branches which complete the palpebral arches. The veins of the lids open into the angular, facial and temporal Veins, veins. The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic and f^^^^'^^ superior maxillary divisions of the fifth and tlie facial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nerve which give offsets to the from fifth, U2323er lid are the following : lachrymal, at the outer part; supra- orbital, about the middle ; and supratrochlear and infratrochlear at the inner side. In the lower eyelid there are usually two palpebral branches, inner and outer, of tlie superior maxillary nerve. Branches of the facial nerve enter both lids at the outer side, and ^""^^ seventh supply the orbicularis muscle; they communicate with the offsets of the fifth nerve. External Ear. The outer ear consists of a broad, projecting ^^^^^^^^^^J or auricle, and of a tube—meatus auditorius inwards to the middle ear, from which it is separated by the tympanic membrane. The pinna may be now examined on the left side of the head; the meatus will be described with the anatomy of the ear. D34 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Texture and form of pinna. Surface marked by fossae and eminences. Margin, Lobule. Intrinsic muscles of auricle. The PINNA or auricle is an uneven piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin of the meatus auditorius externus. It is of a somewhat oval form, with the margin folded and the upper end larger than the lower. The surface next the head is generally convex; and the opposite excavated, but presenting the following elevations and depressions. In the centre is a deep hollow named concha, which is wide above but narrow below ; it conducts to the meatus auditorius. In front of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the tragus, which has some hairs on the inner surface ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection—the antitragus. The prominent rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into the concha, is called the helix ; and the depression internal to it is the groove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, forming the hinder and upper boundary of the concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper part a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix. Inferiorly the auricle ends in a soft pendulous part, the lohule. The sjjecial muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of the cartilage to another, are very thin and pale. Five small muscles Fig. 9.* arc to be recognised ; and these receive their names for the most part from the several eminences of the external ear. How to find Dissection. In seeking the small auricular muscles, let the the muscles. j^g removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary for the display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector will not find one or more of the number described below. * Muscles on the outer surface of the ear-cartilage. 1. Muscle of the tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle of the helix. 4. Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the inner surface of the ear-cartilage. 6. Transverse muscle. 7. Oblique muscle sometimes seen.AIJEICLE OF THE EAR. 35 The muscle of the tragus (fig. 9, ^) is always found on the external One muscle aspect of the process from which it takes its name. The fibres are ^^^s^^- short, obliqne, and extend from the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (Fig. 9, ^) is the best marked of all. One on It arises from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres are directed upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of the antihelix. The small muscle of the helix (fig. 9,'*) is often indistinct or One on root absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends into the concha. The large muscle of the helix (fig. 9, ^) arises above the small Another on muscle of the same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, ^ where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse muscle of the auricle (fig. 9, ^) forms a wide layer, which is situate at the back of the ear in the depression between concha, the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage forming the concha, and is inserted into the back of the helix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when that tissue is removed. Dissection. The remaining skin should now be removed from Clean the the pinna, and the muscles cleaned off to expose the cartilage : in doing this the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 9. The cartilage of the pinna (fig. 9) resembles much the external Cartilage ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. The rim of the S™ternal helix subsides posteriorly about the middle of the pinna ; while '• anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The jDart of the cartilage forming the fossa of the helix ends on a level with the lowest part of the concha in a j^^Hj^^lf'^* pointed process which is separated from the antitragus by a deep notch. The antihelix is continued below into the antitragus. On the posterior -aspect of the concha is a strong vertical ridge of cartilage. Inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external and at upper auditory aperture in the temporal bone, and forms a portion of the meatus; meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and hinder j)art that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of cartilage forming the outer end of the meatus its fissures, are two fissures (of Santorini): one is directed vertically beneath the base of the tragus ; the other passes from before backwards in the floor of the meatus. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, and others pass Ligaments; from one point to another of the cartilage. The external ligaments are two bands of fibrous tissue, anterior extrinsic, and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior passes from the back of the concha to .the mastoid process. The chief special ligament crosses intrinsic, the interval between the tragus and the helix, and completes the opening of the auditory meatus. D 2DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 36 Outline of facial nerve. Dissection of nerve beyond parotid, on temple in eyelids, in the face, on lower jaw. The nervf in the parotid. and muscu- lar branches Vessels and nerves of the auricle. The arteries of the auricle are derived from the superficial temporal {ant. auricular hranclies) and the posterior auricular branches of the external carotid. The veins have a corresponding termination. The skin of the pinna is supplied on the outer surface mainly by the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, on the inner surface in the upj^er part by the small occipital, and in the lower part, together with the outer aspect of the lobule, by the great auricular nerve. The auricular branch of the vagus also reaches the back of the concha. The muscles are suj^plied by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. The FACIAL NERVE (fig. 10), or the seventh cranial nerve, is the motor nerve of the sujDerficial muscles of the head and face. Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve ; the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over the side of the lower jaw. Dissection. The facial nerve is to be displayed on the right side of the face if there is sufficient time before the body is turned ; otherwise it is to be omitted for the present (see p. 1). The trunk of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but its ramifications are mostly in front of the glandular mass. To expose the branches of the nerve beyond the parotid gland, raise the skin from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The diff'erent branches are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and are to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches to the temple have already been partly dissected above the zygomatic arch ; and their junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supraorbital nerve has been seen. Some still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and communicate with the other palpebral nerves ; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar branch of the fifth nerve. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infraorbital, nasal, and infratrochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller. One joins with the buccal nerve over the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower lip, and to the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. To follow backwards the trunk of the nerve through the gland, the integuments shotild be taken from the surface of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland should be removed piece by piece. In this proceeding its small branches of communication with the great auricular nerve, and the deep branches joining it from the auriculo-tem23oral nerve (of the fifth) are to be sought. Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the back of the • ear and to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles are to be looked for close to the base of the skull before the nerve enters the parotid.37 FACIAL NEHVE. The Facial Nerve outside the Skull (fig. 10, ^^). The nerve Branches issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aqueduct skull of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three following small branches :— The posterior auricular branch (fio^. 10, ^) turns upwards in front Posterior 1 , \o7/ i rr'i'i auricular 01 the mastoid process, where it communicates with an offset of the branch, great auricular, and is also joined by a branch to the ear from the pneumo-gastric nerve; it ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8). The branch to the digastric muscle arises generally in common Branch ta with the next. It is distributed by several offsets to the posterior digastric belly of the muscle near the skull. * Superficial nerves of the face. 7. Nasal nerve. 8. Infratrochlear. 9. Subcutaneous malar. 11. Infraorbital. 12. Buccal. 13. Mental. 15. Facial nerve, sending back the posterior auricular branch, 4, and forwards its numerous offsets to join the branches of the fifth nerve above enumerated.DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Branch to stylo-hyoid. Division into two. The upper division of tlie nerve has three sets of branches. Temporal branches to side of head, Malar branches to eyelids. Infraorbital brajiches between eye and mouth. Lower division of the nerve has also three sets of branches. Buccal to corner of mouth. Supra- maxillary between mouth and chin. The branch to the stylo-hyoid is a long slender nerve, wHcli is directed inwards, and enters its muscle about the middle. This branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off these branches, it is directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks—temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The TEMPORO-FACIAL TRUNK furnishes offsets to the side of the head and face, which extend downwards to the level of the month. As this trunk crosses over the external carotid artery, it receives one or two large branches from the auriculo-temporal portion of the inferior maxillary nerve, and then divides into three sets of terminal branches—temporal, malar, and infraorbital, which have frequent communications with one another as they pass forwards in the face. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch to enter the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii, and the frontalis muscles; they are united with offsets of the supra- orbital nerve (*'). The attrahens and attollens aurem muscles are supplied from this set; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (^''). The malar branches are directed to the outer side of the orbit, and are distributed to the orbicularis muscle. Communications take place in the eyelids with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve, and over the malar bone with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve (^). The infraorbital branches are larger than the rest, and are furnished to the muscles between the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a free com- munication—infraorbital plexus, is formed between these nerves and the infraorbital branches of the superior maxillary (^^). After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to supply the muscles, and to join the nasal (') and infratrochlear (^) branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The CERVICO-FACIAL is smaller than the upper trunk, and distri- butes nerves to the lower j)art of the face and the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo- facial division, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, while in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united with the great auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed from it are buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards towards the angle of the mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator muscle and terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the buccal branch (^^) of the inferior maxillary nerve. The supramaxillary branches course forwards over the lower jaw to the middle line, and supply the muscles of the lower lip and chin. Beneath the depressor anguli oris these branches of the facial join the offsets of the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve ('^).DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 39 The inframaxillary branch lies below the jaw, and is dis- infra- tributed to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of this nerve t?uec? will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 59). Section IY. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions. The orbit should be dissected on the side on which the muscles of the face have been learnt. Position. In the examination of this cavity the head is to be position of placed in the same position as for the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull. Dissection. The cotton-wool beneath the eyelids should be taken Howtoopei away, and the bone forming the roof of the orbit may be removed in the following manner. Two cuts are to be made with the saw through the frontal bone, the inner one vertically over the internal margin of the anterior opening of the orbit, and the outer one, commencing behind the temporal crest, obliquely downwards and inwards, to the external angular process: then with a chisel these are to be con- chisel, tinned backwards along the roof of the orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. The piece of bone included between the incisions is now to be tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, which is formed by and bone the small wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the forceps, bone forceps, except a narrow ring around the optic foramen ; and any overhanging bone, which may interfere with the dissection, should be like^vise removed. During the examination of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit is now seen where it has been detached Periosteum from the bone in the dissection. This membrane forms a sac around *^r^^^' the contents of the orbit, which is continuous posteriorly with the dura mater through the sphenoidal fissure and the optic foramen, and is closed in front by the palpebral fascia passing from it to the lids (p. 32). It adheres but loosely to the bones, and is perforated be- hind by apertures for the passage of the vessels and nerves entering the orbit. On the sides, prolongations of the membrane accompany the vessels and nerves leaving the cavity. Dissection. The periosteum is next to be divided along the middle Open of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little P^iiosteuni fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat at this stage of the dissection. The frontal nerve and the supraorbital artery are ^Dlaced in the Position of centre ; the lachrymal nerve and vessels close to the oater wall; exposed.DISSECTION OF THE OEBIT. 40- Trace super- ficial nerves, Orbit lias seven muscles; several cra- nial nerves: their distri- bution : and souie vessels. Laelirynial gland at outer part of orbit. Ducts open behind upper eyelid. Fourth nerve supplies superior oblique. Ophthalmic gives three branches. and the small foiirtL. nerve at the back of the orbit : all these nerves are above the muscles in the cavity. The superior oblique muscle lies on the inner side, and is recognised by the fourth nerve enter- ing it; the levator palpebrse and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. At the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards to their exit from the orbit, and backwards, with the fourth nerve, through the sphenoidal fissure, to the wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting anterior clinoid process, should this still remain ; and some care will he required to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commence- ment. Contents of the orbit. The eyeball, the lachrymal gland, and a quantity of granular fat, are lodged in the orbit. Connected with the eye are six muscles—four straight and two oblique ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in the cavity are numerous, viz., the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the small temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and offsets of the sympathetic ; their general distribution is as follows :— The second nerve enters the eyeball ; the third supplies all the muscles of the cavity but two; the fourth enters the superior oblique ; and the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball with the sym- pathetic, but the greater number of its branches j)ass through the orbital cavity to the face. The ophthalmic vessels are also contained in the orbit. The LACHRYMAL GLAND (fig. 11, f) secretes the tears, and is situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, something like a small almond, and measures about three-quarters of an inch in its longest diameter, which is directed transversely. From its fore part a thin accessory piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland ; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. The gland has from eight to twelve very fine ducts, which open on the surface of the conjunctiva in a curved line above the outer part of the upper eyelid, and a little in front of the fornix. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 11, ^) is the most internal of the three nerves entering the orbit above the muscles. In the cavity, it is directed inwards above the levator palpebrse to the superior oblique muscle, which it pierces on the orbital surface. The OPHTHALMIC TRUNK of the fifth nerve (fig. 11), as it approaches the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, and then divides into the frontal and lachrymal branches ; the first passes into the orbit between the heads ofOPHTHALMIC NEEYE. 41- mal. 4. Supratrochlear. 6. Offset of lachrymal to join temporo-malar. the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. The frontal nerve (fig. 11,") is close to the outer side of the Frontal fourth as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along the g^p^^^^j.^"^^^ middle of the orbit; and after giving off from its inner side the and supra-' supratrochlear branch it leaves the cavity by the supraorbital ^^'odilear. notch. Taking the name snpraorhital, it ascends on the forehead, Fiff. 11.* where it is distributed. This nerve frequently divides into its two main branches (p. 6) while still within the orbit. While in the notch the supraorbital nerve gives one or two pal23e- Palpebral bral filaments to the upper Hd. filaments. The supratrochlear nerve (^) passes inwards above the pulley of Supratrocii- the upper oblique muscle, and leaves the orbit to end in the eyelid ^^^^ branch, and forehead (p. 7). Before the nerve turns round the margin of * First view of the orbit (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles :—A. Su- perior oblique. B. Levator palpebrse. c. External rectus. d. Superior rectus. F. Lachrymal gland. Nerves:—1. Fourth. 2. Frontal. 3, Lachry-DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 42 Lachrymal nerve ends in. eyelid: offset joins superior maxillary. Nasal, after- wards. Dissection. Elevator of upper eyelid, attached to tarsus: relations: Upper rec- tus muscle: origin; insertion: position to other yaxts Upper oblique muscle traverses a pulley: insertion; the frontal bone, it sends downwards a twig of communication to the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. The lachrymal nerve (fig. 11, ^) after entering the orbit in a separate canal of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the outer part of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland in the upper eyelid, where it pierces the palpebral fascia, and is distributed to the structures of the lid. The nerve furnishes branches to the lachrymal gland; and near the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments to join the temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The nasal nerve is not fully seen at this stage of the dissection, and will be noticed later (p. 43). Dissection. Divide the frontal nerve about its middle, and throw the ends forwards and backwards : by raising the posterior piece of the nerve, the separate origin of the nasal branch from the ophthalmic trunk will appear. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LEVATOR PALPEBRiE suPERiORis (fig. 11, b) is the most superficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens in front, and bends downwards in the upper eyelid to be inserted by a broad tendon into the front of the tarsal plate. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the frontal neuve and the periosteum; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the middle, a small branch of the third nerve will be seen entering the posterior half on the under surface. Action. The lid is made to glide upwards over the ball by this muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the skin above the lid being folded inwards at the same time. The SUPERIOR RECTUS (fig. 11, d) is the upper of four muscles that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In front the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the trans- parent cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact with the globe of the eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwards seen ; the upper surface is partly covered by the preceding muscle. The action of the muscle will be given with the other recti (p. 48). The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 11, a) is thin and narrow, and passes through a fibro-cartilaginous loop at the inner angle of the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises behind from the upper and inner part of the optic foramen, and ends an- teriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop referred to (fig. 11), is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the ball.43, THIED AND NASAL NERYES. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle relations: and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external recti, and near the tendon cf the inferior oblique. The pulley, or trochlea (fig. 12), is a fi.bro-cartilaginous ring about pulley of one-sixth of an inch wide, which is attached by fibrous tissue to the ^^^^^^^^^l®' depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margin of the pulley on the tendon ; and a synovial sheath lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial sheath and the free motion of the tendon, this prolongation may be cut away. For the use of the muscle, see the description of the inferior use oblique (p. 49). Dissection. The superior rectus muscle is next to be divided Dissection about the middle and turned backwards (fig. 12), when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the oxDlithalmic vessels will come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve ; these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away the fat between the optic nerve and the external Find len- rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find easily fine l5.!Jlgifon, nerves (ciliary) Avith small arteries lying along tlie side of the optic ° nerve ; and by tracing these ciliary nerves backwards, he will be guided to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head). The dissector should find then two branches from the nasal and and roots, third nerves to the ganglion : the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind ; while that of the third nerve, short and thick, joins the lower part. The eyeball is to be fully exposed by dissecting off" its investing Clean fascia (capsule, of Tenon), which will be seen to send processes around the several muscles inserted into the sclerotic. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, Separate third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the external rectus muscle into the orbit. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous Third nerve sinus (fig. 4) ; but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachrymal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into tlie orbit between the heads as it enters of the outer rectus, having previously divided into two parts. orbit; The upjjer division (fig. 12, '^) is the smaller, and ends in the under its upper surface of the levator palpebra3 and superior rectus muscles. ^' The loiver division supplies three other muscles, and will be lower dissected afterwards (p. 47). The NASAL BRANCH OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE (fig. 12, ^) Nasal nerve. enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, lying between the two parts of the third nerve, and is then directed obliquely inwards to reach the anterior of the two internal orbital canals. Passing through this aperture "with the anterior ethmoidal GeneralDISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 4:4. the face" artery, the nei've appears in the cranium at the outer margin of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture at the front of the cribriform plate ; and after passing behind the nasal bone, it issues between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orbit. In the orMt the nasal crosses over the optic nerve, but beneath the superior rectus and levator palpebrse muscles, and lies afterwards below the superior oblique ; in this part of its course it furnishes the following branches:— Branches. The branch to the lenticular ganglion (^) is about half an inch long Long root of and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve comes into the ganglion. orbit: this is the long root of the lenticular ganglion. Longciiiaiy Long ciliary nerves. As the nasal crosses the optic nerve, it branches. * Second [view of the orbit (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles:— A. Superior oblique, b. Levator palpebrte and upper rectus thrown back to- gether, c. External rectus, d. Fore part of upper rectus, f. Lachrymal gland. Nerves:—1. NasaL 2, Its infratrochlear branch. 3. Lenticular ganglion :—4, its short root ; 5, its long root (too large). 6. Branch of third to inferior oblique muscle. 7. Ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. 8. Upper branch of the third. 9. Sixth nerve. 10. Third nerve, outside the orbit.OPHTHALMIC ARTEEY. 45 supplies two or more ciliary branches (fig. 12) to tlie eyeball. These lie on the inner side of the optic nerve, and join the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. The infratrochlear branch (^) arises as the nasal nerve is about infratroch- to leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of ^^^^ i^ranch. the superior oblique nmscle, to end in the upper eyelid, the con- junctiva, and the side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of communication from the supratrochlear nerve. In the nose (fig, 37). While in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- Nasal nerve nishes branches to the lining membrane of the septum and outer wall; these will be subsequently referred to with the nerves of the nose (p. 145). Termination of the nasal nerve (fig. 10). After the nerve becomes ^ cutaneous on the side of the nose, as seen in the dissection of the facial nerve (p. 37.), it descends beneath the compressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC Or LENTICULAR GANGLION (fig. 12, ^) is a Small Ji'^^'^jPj^^ reddish body, about the size of a pin's head, and in form nearly ^ ° square. It is placed at tlie back of the orbit between the optic situation; nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of, and close to the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior part the connec- ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots) ; and from the anterior part proceed ciliary branches to the eyeball. The ganglion receives roots from sensory, motor, and sympathetic nerves. The branches of communication are three in number. One, the Three roots: long root (^), is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which long, joins the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thickness, the short root (^), passes to the inferior angle from the branch of the short, third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the sympathetic root is derived from the cavernous plexus, either in and sym- union with the long root, or as a distinct branch to the posterior P''^*^^^*^^- border of the ganglion. Branches. The short ciliary nerves (fig. 12), ten or twelve in Ciliary number, are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper eyebaiL^ and lower angles at the front of the ganglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. In their course to the eyeball they lie along the outer and under joarts of the optic nerve, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The OPHTHALMIC ARTERY, a branch of the internal carotid, enters Ophthalmic the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is below and to the outer side of the optic nerve, but it then courses inwards over (or occasionally under) the nerve to the inner side of the orbit, in the orbit, and finally perforates the palpebral fascia above the internal tarsal ligament to end by dividing into frontal and nasal branches. The branches of the artery are numerous, though inconsiderable Branches: in size. They supply the structures within the orbit, and some general dis- leave that cavity to be distributed to the lining membrane of the ^I'l^^*^^'^-DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 46 Branch to retina. Ciliary arteries are posterior- two named long ciliary, and an- terior. Lachrymal branch to gland and eyelids: offsets through malar hone. Supraorbi- tal branch. Muscular. Ethmoidal branches, posterior and an- terior. Branches to eyelids. Frontal branch. cranium, to the interior and exterior of tlie nose, and to tlie adjoin ing part of the forehead. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch which pierces the optic nerve about half an inch behind the eyeball. The ciliary branches are divided into anterior and posterior, which enter the eyeball at the front and back :— The posterior ciliary usually arise by two trunks—inner and outer, close to the optic foramen: they divide into a number of branches (from ten to twenty) which run to the eyeliall around the optic nerve, and jDerforate the sclerotic coat at the posterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve), named long ciliary, pierce the sclerotic farther out than the others, and lie along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the ophthalmic, and perforate the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the eyeball they anastomose with the long ciliary. For the ending of these vessels, see the dissection of the eyeball. The lachrymal artery accompanies the nerve of the same name to the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and joining in the palpebral arches (p. 33). It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva ; and it anas- tomoses with the large meningeal artery by an offset through the sphenoidal fissure. The lachrymal artery also sends twigs to the external rectus muscle, and a small branch with each of the divisions of the temporo-malar nerve ; these join the temporal and transverse facial arteries. The supraorbital branch is small, and arises as the artery is crossing the optic nerve. It takes the course of the nerve of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 5.) The muscular branches are a superior to the upper and outer muscles, and an inferior to the lower and inner muscles, as Avell as small irregular offsets. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, and are directed through the canals in the inner wall of the orbit:— The posterior is the smaller of the two, and often arises in common with the supraorbital artery. It ends in offsets to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the nose and the ethmoidal cells. The anterior branch (internal nasal) accompanies the nasal nerve to the cavity of the nose (Section XIV), and gives meningeal offsets to the fore part of the falx cerebri and the dura mater of the anterior fossa of the sku.ll. The palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally arise together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyelids (p. 33). The frontal branch turns round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 5).47 EECTI MUSCLES. The nasal branch (external) supplies the skin and muscles of the Nasal upper part of the nose, and anastomoses with the angular and lateral ^^^'^'^'^'* nasal branches of the facial artery. The ophthalmic veins are two in number, superior and inferior. Ophthalmic VGins' and leave the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the external rectus, to end in the cavernous sinus. The superior superior veiyi is the larger and accompanies the artery : it begins in front by a wide communication with the angular vein, and on its way back- wards it receives tributaries corresponding to most of the offsets of the artery. The inferior vein lies below the optic nerve, and is and inferior, formed by the lower ciliary and muscular l)ranches ; it communi- cates through the spheno-maxillary fissure with the pterygoid plexus. The supraorbital, frontal and palpebral veins do not join the oph- thalmic, but pass to the veins of the face (i3p. 6 and 33). The OPTIC NERVE in the orbit extends from the optic foramen to ^^^^^ uqyy^. the back of the ej^eball. As the nerve leaves the foramen it is sur- rounded by the recti muscles; and beyond that spot the ciliary arteries and nerves entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal expansion of the eye. Dissection (fig. 13). Take away the ophthalmic vessels, and Dissection, divide the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On removing some fat the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, will appear ; and lying on the first two are the offsets of the lower division of the third nerve. The LOWER DIVISION OF THE THIRD NERVE (fig. 13) Supplies Lower three muscles in the orbit. As it enters this space, between the third nerve heads of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately the nerve divides into three branches. One (^) passes to the internal, another ("*) to the inferior ^^^^^[H rectus, both entering the muscles on their ocular surfaces ; the third (^), the longest and most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle, which it pierces at the hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch communicates with the ^"^j^^j^^^ lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. ll,'*) of that body ; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus muscle. The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 13,^) lies below the other nerves, and Sixth nerve, above the ophthalmic veins, in the interval between the heads of the external rectus. In the orbit it first lies against, and then penetrates the inner surface of the external rectus muscle. Kecti Muscles. The internal (fig. 13, d), inferior (c), and straight external recti (b) are placed with reference to the eyeball as their eyeball -. names express. They arise posteriorly from the circumference of origin, the optic foramen by a common attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. The external rectus differs from the others in having two heads : the upper one joins the superior rectus in the common origin : the lower and larger head blends on the one side with the inferior rectus in the common origin, and on the other sideDISSECTION OF THE ORBIT, ■4S is attached to a bony point on the lower border of the sphenoidal hssnre, near the inner end, while some of its muscular fibres are insertior.. also connected with a tendinous band between the heads. All the muscles are directed forwards, the lower also obliquely outwards, and have a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, and in front of the greatest transverse diameter of the ball. headlof Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different outer rectus. nerves before mentioned are transmitted into the orbit, viz., the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic veins. Use of all; Action. The four recti muscles, attached to the eyeball at oppo- site sides in front of the greatest transverse diameter, are able to turn the pupil in opposite directions, inner and The inner and the outer muscles move the ball horizontally outer, around a vertical axis, the former directing the pupil towards the nose and the latter towards the temple. Third view of the orbit (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles:—a. Upper rectus and levator palpebrse thrown back together. B. External rectus, c. Inferior rectus, d. Internal rectus, f. Upper oblique cut, showing the insertion. H. Insertion of inferior oblique. Nerves:—1. Upper branch of the third. 2. Sixth nerve. 3. Branch of third to inferior oblique. 4, Branch of third to inferior rectus. 5. Branch of third to internal rectus.INFEIIIOE, OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 49-. The upper and lower recti elevate and dej)ress the fore part of upper and the ball around a transverse axis ; but as the muscles are directed obliquely outwards, the upper muscle turns the pupil up and in, and the lower muscle turns it down and in. By the simultaneous action of two adjacent recti, the ball will and two be moved to a point intermediate to that to whicli it would be ^"^^J^^^"^- directed by either muscle singly. JJissedion. By opening the optic foramen, the attachment of Dissect tile recti muscles will be more fully laid bare. To dissect out the obfique. inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural jjosition ; then by separating the lower eyelid from the margin of the orbit, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the ej^eball, arching from the inner to the outer side : if the external tarsal ligament be divided, it may be followed upwards to its insertion into the ball. The INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 13, H) is placed near the Lower anterior margin of the orbit, and differs from the other muscles in muscle: being directed across, instead of parallel to the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior maxillary bone immediately outside the origin; opening of the nasal duct. From this spot the muscle passes out- course; Avards between the inferior rectus and the bone, then between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat insertion; between the outer and upper recti. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the relations, posterior receives its branch of the third nerve. The insertion of tlie tendon is near that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Action of the oblique muscles. The superior oblique acting alone ^^j^^^^^^ would draw the back of the eyeball upwards and inwards, and muscles: therefore cause the front of the eye to be directed downwards and outwards. The inferior oblique would similarly turn the eye up- wards and outwards. In consequence of their transverse direction, these muscles would also tend to rotate the eyeball around its antero-posterior axis, the superior oblique depressing, and the inferior oblique elevating the inner end of the horizontal meridian of the eye, but movements of this nature take place only to a very limited extent during life. The oblique muscles are believed to act mainly in controlling the g^pe^ioi' tendency of the superior and inferior recti to rotate the eyeball and and inferior turn it inwards. Thus, to move the eye directly upwards, the superior rectus and the inferior oblique are used, while the inferior rectus and superior oblique co-operate in directing the eye down- wards. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the remain- Seek tensor ing portion of the palpebral fascia is to be separated from the margin of the orbit; but the lids must be left attached at the inner side by means of the internal tarsal ligament. On clearing away a little areolar tissue in the neighbourhood of the inner commissure, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. The TENSOR TARSI MUSCLE arises from the crest of the Ir.chrymal Jf^^^e^^ E " s e.50 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. bone, and slightly from the bone behind the crest. Its fibres are pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the internal tarsal ligament, which divides like that structnre into a slip for each eye- insertion ; jj-^ ^-[-^Q i^fi ^YiQ g|[p Qf ^i^Q lachrymal canal, and blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsus. use. Action. The tensor tarsi draws backwards the inner canthus of the eye and compresses the lachrymal sac, after it has been dilated by the orbicularis palpebrarum in the act of winking. Trace offset Dissection. A small nerve, the orbital branch of the superior inaxifiary^ maxillary trunk, lies aloug the lower part of the outer wall of the nerve. orbit, and may be brought into view after the removal of the eye- ball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered, as it enters the orbit througli the spheno-maxillary fissure, by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis muscle). Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it ; and the junction of a filament of the lachrymal nerve with the former is to be sought close to the bone. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. bram h of '^^^ TEMPORO-MALAR or ORBITAL BRANCH of the superior maxillary superior nerve arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and divides at the back nerve^-^^^ of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramify on the face and the side of the head with companion vessels, its malar The malar branch is directed forwards through the canal of the same name in the malar bone to supply the skin of the upper and outer part of the cheek : it communicates here with the facial nerve (p. 38). and The temporal hrancU ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer oStsy^^ wall of the orbit, and after being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through the temporal canal in the malar bone : it is then directed upwards between the temporal muscle and the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 8). Orbitalis Ovhitalis muscle. At the lower and outer angle of the orbit this thin layer of unstriped muscle is sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the spheno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are joierced by the temporo-malar nerve. Apparatus LACHRYMAL APPARATUS (fig. 14). The lachrymal gland, puncta, tears. ^ canals, and sac, with the nasal duct, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. The gland has already been described (p. 40). Dissection. Dissection. A bristle or blunted pin should be introduced into each lachrymal canal through the punctum. The lachrymal sac will appear on removing the tensor tarsi and the areolar tissue from its surface, as it lies on the lachrymal bone. The prolongation from the internal tarsal ligament over the sac should be defined. Apertures The functa lachrymalia (^), one in each lid, are the openings of m eyelids. ^-^^ lachiymal canals. Each is situate on the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and at the summit of the papilla lachrymalis.LACHRYMAL APPAEATCJS. The lachrymal canals (canaliculi ; fig. 14, ^ and ^) lead from the pimcta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac. From the margin of the lid, each canal is directed vertically for about half a line, and the,n bends inwards, following the course of the inter- nal tarsal ligament. Internally the two canals converge, and they open into the lachrymal sac, rather above its middle, either sepa- rately or by a common orifice. The lachrymal sac and nasal duct extend from the inner side of the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated end is the sac, and the lower part the duct. The sac Q) is placed in the hollow formed by the nasal process of the superior maxillary and the lachrymal bones. In front, it Fig- 14.* is crossed by the ligament of the eyelids; and behind, it is co- vered by an expansion derived from that band, which is fixed to the lachrymal crest. If the aponeurotic covering be removed, the mucous lining will appear. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct {^) is the narrower part of the tube, and is about half an inch long. It is entirely surrounded by bone, and inclines glightly outwards and backwards as it descends. In the nasal cavity it opens into the fore j)art of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a small fold of the mucous membrane. Within the bone, the duct has a fibrous coat lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the nose below, and through the canals with the conjunctiva above. Directions. The examination of the eyeball may be omitted with more advantage till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The description of tlie eye will be found in Chapter X, Canals for the tears. Receptacle of the tears. Situation of the sac, or dilated part. its opening. Structure of the duct. Anatomy of eyeball afterwards. Section Y. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position. For the dissection of the right side of the neck, let the Position of liead be supported on a block of a moderate height, and let the ^^^^ i"^^'*- face be turned to the left side and fiistened in that position with * The eyelids and lachrymal apparatus. 1. Puncta lachrymalia. 2. Upper, land 3, lower lachrymal canal. 4. Caruucula lachrymalis. 5. Lachrymal sac. 6. Nasal duct. E 2DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 62 Boundaries; of the side of the neck. Division into two triangles by sterno- mastoid. Hollows. Objects in middle line of neck: hyoid bone, thyroid cartilage, thyro-hyoid interval, cricoid cartilage, crico- thyroid interval, and supra- sternal depression. Dissection of the platysma. hooks. To obtain a good view of tlie region, the right arm mar be drawn tightly under the body, with the object of depressing the point of the shoulder, and putting the neck on the stretch. In some bodies, owing to a difference in the form of the neck, the best position will be obtained by placing the upper limb over, instead of under the chest. Surface-marking. The side of the neck has a somewhat irregularly quadrilateral outline, and is limited in the following way :—Below is the prominence of the clavicle ; and aboA^e is the base of ther lower jaw with the skull. In front, the boundary is the middle line of the neck between the chin and sternum ; and behind, a line* from the occiput to the acromial end of the clavicle. The part thus included is divided into two triangular spaces (anterior and posterior) by the diagonal prominence of the sterno-mastoid muscle. And in consequence of the position of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum ; while the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno-mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels ; and behind the muscle, just above the clavicle, is another hollow,, the supraclavicular fossa, which indicates the situation of the subclavian artery. Along the front of the neck the following parts can be recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the chin, in the retiring angle formed by the outline of the front of the necky the body of the hyoid bone may be felt, with its large cornu extending backwards on each side. Below this is the prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called jpomum Adami, which is more marked in the male sex ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding with the thyro-hyoid membrane. Below the thyroid is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico-thyroicl membrane. Immediately above the sternum, and bounded on each side by the prominent sterno-mastoid muscle, is a narrow depression—supra-' sternal fossa, the depth of which is much increased in emaciated persons, and in which the tube of the trachea can be recognised. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be felt by the side of the air-tube. Directions. As the time for turning the body will not allow the examination of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare now only the part behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin from the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the sterno-mastoid muscle from the tip of the mastoid process to the clavicle one inch external to its articulation with the sternum ; from the upper end of this carry a cut backwards two-thirds of the distance to tlie external occipital protuberance, and from the lower end another cut outwards along the clavicle as far as the acromion. The skin is to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia,53 PLATYSMA MYOIDES. which, will then be brought into view, contains the platysma ; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous layer from the surface of the fibres. The PLATYSMA MYOIDES is a thin subcutaneous muscular layer, piatysma which is now seen only in its posterior half. The muscle is placed ficross the side of the neck, and extends from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fleshy fibres take origin from the skin and sub- arises at cutaneous tissue over the clavicle and acromion, as well as from ' that covering the highest parts of the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; ascending through the neck, the fibres are inserted into the jaw and inserted the angle of the mouth. ^^^-^ ' The lower part of the muscle is more closely united to the skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the covers . . . triano'le' muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength as they " ' ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be noted, ])ecause in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them transversely. The action will be found with the description of the remainder of use. the muscle (p. 59). Dissection. The platysma is to be cut across near the clavicle. Dissection and to be reflected forwards as far as the incision over the sterno- mastoid muscle, but it is to be left attached at that spot. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the jieck ; and he should dissect out the external jugular vein, with the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus, which are close beneath the platysma. The EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN (fig. 15, ^) begins just behind the External angle of the jaw by the union of the posterior division of the tem- {"fn^^'^ poro-maxillary with the posterior auricular vein (fig. 16). Descend- ing beneath the platysma to the lower part of the neck, it there pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course crosses side down the neck "will be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw subclavian, to the middle of the clavicle. Beyond the sterno-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part (sinus) is limited by two pairs of valves,—one being situate below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. Small superficial branches join the vein, and an offset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size and the height at which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA, like the aponeuroses in other re- Cervical gions of the body, consists of a superficial layer which surrounds the neck continuously, and of processes that are prolonged in- wards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane encases the sterno- mastoid, and has a different disjDOsition before and behind that muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, the Part behind fascia continues over the posterior triangular space, and encloses the ^i^astofd trapezius in its progress to the sj^ines of- the vertebrse. At the muscleDISSECTION OF- THE NECK. 54 sends a process around omo-hyoid. lower part of the neck it is attaclied to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jngiilar vein and the cntaneous nerves. After the superticial layer has heen removed near the clavicle, a deep process may he observed snrrounding the omo-hyoid muscle, and passing downw-ards behind the clavicle, to be fixed at the back of that bone, and the anterior end of the first rib. Posterior triangular space of the neck. Dissection of the space. Find omo-hA'oid. Nerves above omo-hvoid vessels below, and a small nerve. Define serratus, and nerves piercing scalenus. Boundaries. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space (fig. 15), having the form and position before noted is about eight inches in length. It contains the cervical and brachial plexuses, with the portion of the subclavian artery on which a ligature is usually placed, and some ofi"sets of the vessel and the nerves. Dissection. By the removal of the cervical fascia and the fat between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, the posteric.^r triangle of the neck will be displayed. In the execution of this somewhat difiicult task the student should proceed cautiously, to avoid injuring the numerous nerves and vessels in the space. Seek first the small omo-hyoid muscle (fig. 15, which crosses the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and divides it into two. Close to or beneath the upper border of the muscle lie the slender nerve and vessels to it: the nerve is derived from the ansa hypoglossi, and the artery from the suprascapular. Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the branches of the cervical plexus, together with the sj^inal accessory nerve ; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the sterno-mastoid muscle. The greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder ; but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed forward* over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoid find the large subclavian artery and the brachial plexus, which have a deep position, and run downwards and outwards. Also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz., the suprascapular vessels behind the clavicle ; the transverse cervical vessels, which are higher in the neck, taking an outward direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoid. Underneath the trapezius, where it is attached to the clavicle, define the serratus magnus muscle ; and behind the brachial plexus, towards the lower part of the space, the middle scalenus muscle appears. Through the scalenus issue two muscular nerves ; one, formed by two or three roots, for the serratus magnus ; the other smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the space. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle (^), and behind by the trapezius (^). Its base corre- sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its area are several muscles, which are placed in the following order from above down, viz., splenius capitis, levatorPOSTERIOE TRIANGULAR SPACE. anguli pcapiilte f), and middle scalenus (^) ; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, lies the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already Fig. 15.* examined, viz., the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or two-thirds, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle (^) crosses the space near the clavicle, ^^j^j^j^ by omo- hyoid. * Part of the posterior triangle of the neck is here displayed, but the fjtudent should carry the dissection as high as the head, so as to lay bare the whole of that space. 1. Sterno-mastoid. 2. Trapezius. 3. Posterior belly of omo-hyoid. 4. Anterior scalenus, with the phreuic nerve on it, exposed by the shrinking of the sterno-mastoid. 5. Middle scalenus. 6. Levator anguli scapulae. 7. Third part of subclavian artery, 8. External jugular vein joining the subclavian below. 9. Brachial plexus. 10. Spinal accessory nerve. (Blandin's Surgical Anatomy.)DISSECTIOJ^ OF THE NECK. 66 Part near clavicle. Extent of the space. Trunks of vessels and nerves, and tlieir relative position. Branches of vessels. Variations in the size of the space. also in the depth, both natural and artificial. Departure from the ordinary state of the artery, and its branches. 30 as to divide it iiito two, a lower or clavicular, and an upper or occipital part. The clavicular 'part is the smaller, and contains the subclavian artery. It is triangular in form, with its base directed forwards, and is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid (^), above by the omo-hyoid (^), and below by the clavicle. This space measures commonly about two inches from before backwards, and about one inch from above down at its base. Crossing the area of this space, rather above the level of the clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery ('), which issues from beneath the anterior scalenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. In the ordinary condition of the vessel the com- panion subclavian vein is seldom seen, owing to its being placed lower down behind the clavicle. Above the artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus (^), which accompany the vessel, and become closely applied to it beneath the clavicle. Behind the artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle (°). And below the vessel is the first rib. Along the lower boimdary of the space, and rather beneath the clavicle, lie the suprascapular vessels ; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the transverse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein (^), which descends over (seldom under) the omo-hyoid, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this region the vein receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. The length of the clavicular part of the space depends mainly upon the extent of the attachment of the trapezius and sterno- mastoid muscles to the clavicle: in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of that bone, leaving but a small interval between them ; and occasionally they meet, so as to cover the subclavian artery altogether. The space also varies in height according to the position of the omo-hyoid, for this muscle some- times lies close to, or even arises from the clavicle, while on the other hand, it may be distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies naturally; and in a short thick neck with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth may be altered much more by change in the position of the clavicle, as the shoulder is carried forwards or backwards* And lastly, the artery may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards the arm and shoulder, as the collar-bone can be raised above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle. The position of the subclavian artery itself is also subject to variation, for the vessel may be one inch and a half above the clavicle, or at any point intermediate between this and the bone. In the typical condition there is not any branch arising from the trunk in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular artery (fig. 15) is frequently given ofl" beyond the scalenus, and sometimes there is more than one branch.BEANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. 57 The subclavian vein occasionally rises upwards as high, as the Position of artery ; or in some rare instances, it even lies with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The position of the external jugular vein M ith regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain; and the branches connected with its lower end often form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. The occipital part of the posterior triangle is larger than the Occipital other. Its Ijoundaries in front and behind are the sterno-mastoid space^^ and the trapezius; and it is separated from the clavicular portion by the omo hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cervical j^^g^^^g^^j^^^ plexus ; and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along the sterno- lymphatics; mastoid muscle. The spinal accessory nerve Q^) is directed also spinal obliquely across this interval from the sterno-mastoid muscle, which nerve!*^^^ it pierces, to the under surface of the trapezius ; and a communica- tion takes place between it and the spinal nerves in the space. Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus. These ^h/gp^yigai nerves emerge from beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle about the plexus middle of its hinder border, and are thence directed both upwards and downwards. The ASCENDING SET (fig. 15) are three in number, viz., small t^^t ascend, occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. The small occipital branch (fig. 2, ^) conies from the second, and Small in most cases also from the third cervical nerves, and is directed upwards to the head along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle. It perforates the fascia near the skull, and is dis- tributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 8). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the back of the head. The great auricular nerve (fig. 2, ^) is derived from the second Great and third cervical nerves. Perforating the deep fascia at the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is directed upwards beneath the platysma towards the lobule of the ear, and ends in the following branches :— The facial hranches are sent forwards to the integuments over the supplies j^arotid, and a few slender filaments pass into the gland to join the ' facial nerve. ■ The auricular hranches ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly auricular, distributed on its cranial aspect, but one or more reach the lower part of the outer surface. On the ear they communicate with branches furnished from the facial and pneumo-gastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the skin over the ^^^^"j^|g^"'^ mastoid process, where it joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve (p. 37). The superficial cervical nerve (fig. 2, arises from the cervical ^^Pfj^^f^^^ plexus in common with the preceding, and turns forwards round nerve. the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space (see p. 59). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. , The DESCENDING SET of branches (fig. 2) are derived from the Nerves that .... . , . . descend are38 DISSECTION. OF THE NECK, supraclavi. cular. Posterior cervical cutaneous. Lymphatic glands of neok. Directions. The hack to be examined Remove spinal cord. third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three near the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its inner end ; the middle branch (clavicular) lies about the middle of that bone ; and the external (acrondal) turns over the clavicular attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distributed to the skin of the chest and shoulder. Derived from the descending set are one or two posterior cutaneous nerves of the neck, which ramily in the integument covering the trapezius above the scapula. The lymphatic glands lying along the sterno-mastoid (glandula? concatenatse) are some of the deep cervical glands, and are continuous through the lower part of the posterior triangular space with the glands of the axilla. A chain of superficial cervical glands accom- panies the external jugular vein ; and close to the skull, over the apex of the posterior triangular space, are one or two small sab- occipital glands ; while farther forwards, resting on the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, there are two or three small mastoid glands. Directions. The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difference in the vessels may be observed. Afterwards, the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, preservative fluid or salt having been previously applied. The body is now to be turned for the examination of the back; and during the time allotted for this position the dissector of the head is to learn the posterior part of the neck. (See the dissection OF THE BACK.) After the completion of the back, the student should take out the spinal cord, and then return to the dissection of the front of the neck, which is described below. FRONT OF THE NECK. Detach the head. Examine right side of neck. Position of part. Dissection Directions. After the thorax and back are finished, the head and neck may be detached from the trunk by dividing the spinal colunm between the second and third dorsal vertebra3, and cutting through the arch of the aorta beyond its large branches (if this is not done), so as to take that piece of the vessel with the' head. The dissector continues his work on the remainder of the right side of the neck ; but if the facial nerve has been omitted, it should be first learnt (p. 36). Position. Supposing the facial nerve completed, a small narrow block is to be placed beneath the left side of the neck, and the face is to be turned from the dissector. Farther, the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin being well raised at the same time. Dissection. An incision along the base of the jaw on the right side (if it has not been made already) will allow the piece of integuFEONT OF NECK. meiit in front of the sterno-mastoid to be raised towards the middle to raise line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fat, containing very line offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. To define the platysma muscle, remove the fat which covers it, to show carrying the knife down and back in the direction of the fleshy P^^*^®"^^- fibres. Platysma myoides. The anterior part of the platysma, viz., Anterior from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers the greater piatysma: portion of the anterior triangular space. At the base of the jaw it insertion is inserted between the symphysis and the masseter muscle ; while into jaw. other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joining the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or even to the cheek-bone. The fibres have the same appearance in this as in the posterior ^j[g^^^^|g"^ half of the muscle (p. 53), but they are rather stronger. Below the chin the inner fibres of opposite muscles frequently cross for a short distance, but those which are superficial do not always belong to the same side in different bodies. Action. The hinder part of this muscle draws the corner of the Use on mouth downwards and outwards ; the fore part is used in swallow- "^"^^^^^ ing, and carries forwards the skin of the upper part of the neck, thus Hig^.^^ facilitating the upward movement of the larynx. When the muscle contracts forcibly, the skin of the upper part of the chest and shoulder is also raised. Dissection. Eaise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and dissect Dissection, out beneath it the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cervical branch of the facial nerve. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck, and the anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL NERVE has been traced from its ^^Pf^^^f^^^ origin in the cervical plexus to its position on the deej) fascia of the nerve; neck (p. 57). - Beneath the platysma it divides into an upper and a lower branch :— The upper branch perforates the platysma, and ends in the skin ascending, over the anterior triangle, extending about half way down the neck. While beneath the platysma this branch joins the facial nerve. The loiver branch likewise passes through the platysma, and is descending distributed to the integuments below the preceding, reaching as low as the sternum. The INFRAMAXILLARY BRANCH OF THE FACIAL NERVE (p. 39) Branch of f^ciRi ncrvG pierces the deep cervical fascia, and divides into slender offsets to the neck, which pass forwards beneath the platysma, and form arches across the side of the neck (fig. 10), reaching as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the muscle there is a communication between this branch of the facial and the upper division of the superficial cervical nerve. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the middle, Dissection, and throw the ends up and down. Afterwards the superficial nerves of the front of the neck may be divided in a line with the60 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Cervical fascia in front of sterno- inastoid. Intermus- cular sirata. angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may he cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cervical fascia in front of the sterno- mastoid is stronger than that over the posterior triangle (p. 53), and has the following arrangement. Above, it is fixed to the base of the, lower jaw, and is continued over the parotid gland to the zygoma. A thickened band passes backwards from the angle of the jaw to the sheath of the sterno-mastoid, and holds forwards the anterior border of that muscle. Above this, a deep process is sent inwards from, the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw, between the parotid and submaxillary glands, to the styloid process, giving rise to the stylo- maxillary ligament. In front, the fascia is attached to the body of the hyoid bone ; and below, to the sternum. Its lower part forms a dense white membrane, which near the manubrium becomes divided into two layers, one in front and the other behind, so as to enclose a small space containing a little fat and the transverse branch of communication between the anterior jugular veins. Layers of the membrane are prolonged between the muscles ; and that beneath the sterno-mastoid is continuous with the sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these, beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. Anterior triangular space. Dissection of anterior triangle. Trace arteries. Seek longi- tudinal and transverse nerves. This space (fig. 16) contains the carotid vessels and their branches, Avith many nerves ; and it corresponds with the hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its con- tents, take away the deep fascia of the neck and the subjacent fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. First clean the surface of the muscles below the hyoid bone, leaving imtouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into which the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), the branches of which are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath from the vessels, as these appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve on the surface of the artery. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo- gastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the sympathetic nerve. Clean the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, and beneath them look for several nerves. Thus, crossing the carotid arteries just below the digastric is the hypoglossal nerve, which gives off its descending branch in front of the artery, and further forwards a smaller offset to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Under cover of the muscles, and taking a similar direction between theANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 61 two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from Spinal beneath the same muscles to the sterno-mastoid is the spinal acces- sory nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the Laryngeal thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the larynx, with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; Clean gland, and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid trmyio"^ muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that hyoid. muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process has been already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space. Behind, is the sterno-mastoid muscle (^); and Boundaries, in front, the boundary is formed by a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, are the lower jaw, the skull, and the ear ; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin, the superficial fascia with the platysma, the deep fascia, and the ramifi- cations of the facial and superficial cervical nerves, together with the anterior jugular vein. Muscles in the space. In the area of the triangular interval, as it Contents of is above defined, are seen the larynx and pharynx in part, and ^i^^*^'^- many muscles converging towards the hyoid bone, some being above and some below it. Below are the depressors of that bone, viz., omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyro-hyoid to ; and above are the elevator muscles, viz., mylo-hyoid, digastric, and stylo-hyoid. Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are two of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Vessels in the triangular space. The carotid blood vessels and') ^^^^^y^j,^ occupy the hinder and deeper part of the space along the side of space: the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and their course would be marked on course; the surface by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. As high as the level of the cricoid cartilage they are buried beneath coverings; the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone ; but beyond that spot they are covered by the superficial layers over the space, and by the sterno-mastoid muscle which, before it is displaced, conceals the vessels as far as the parotid gland. For a short distance after its exit from beneath the depressor bifurcation, muscles of the hyoid bone, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk ; but opposite, or a little above, the upper border of the thyroid cartilage it divides into two large vessels, external and in- ternal carotid. From the place of division these arteries are con- tinued onwards beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the vessel destined for the f^^^^J-unks internal parts of the head (internal carotid) being the posterior of to one another.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. tlie two ; but above the digastric muscle it becomes deeper than the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes Eraaches. many branches to the neck and the outer jDart of the head, viz., some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear ; and others upwards to the head. Changes in But the common carotid does not always divide as here said, the place of division of For the point of branching of the vessel may be moved from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or down- wards, so that the trunk may remain undivided till it is beyond the hyoid bone, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trunk (though very rarely) furnishing offsets to the neck and head. * Anterior triangular space of the neck (Quain's "Arteries"). 1. Sterno- mastoid. 2. Sterno-liyoid. 3. Anterior belly of omo-hyoid. 4. Thyro- hyoid. 6. Common carotid artery dividing. 7. Internal jugular vein. 8. External jugular vein.—In the original drawing the sterno-mastoid is partly cut through.63 ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 111 close contact with the outer side of both the common and the Jugular internal carotid artery, and encased in a sheath of fascia with them, ^'^"^"' is the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches in the neck corresponding to some of the branches of the superficial artery. In some bodies the vein covers the artery ; and the branches joining it position above may form a kind of plexus over the upper end of the common carotid, Nerves in the space. In connection with the large vessels are the Nerves with following nerves with a longitudinal direction :—^On the surface of ^^tenes, the common carotid artery, and most frequently within the sheath, lies the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve ; between the artery and jugular vein is the pneumo-gastric nerve ; and behind the lying along sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer side of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, until it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. Several nerves are placed across the vessels :—thus, directed ^"gj^"'*^^^^"^ transversely over the two carotids, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypoglossal nerve giving off its descending branch. Appearing on the inner side of the carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which courses forwards between them. To the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight; while a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the external larjaigeal branch of that nerve. Glands in the space. Two large glandular bodies, the siibmaxil- _fubniaxil- lary(fig. 17,^\) and thyroid (^^), have their seat in this triangular lary, t>pace of the neck. The submaxillary gland is placed altogether in front of the vessels, and is partly concealed by the jaw : beneath it, on the surface of the mylo-hyoid, is the small nerve to that muscle, with the submental artery. By the side of the thyroid cartilage, 'J^Jly^^^™^'^ between it and the common carotid artery, lies the thyroid body beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle : in the female this body is more largely developed than in the male. At the base of the space, if the parts were not disturbed, would Parotid be the parotid gland, which is wedged into the hollow between the ^ jaw and the mastoid process, and projects somewhat below the level of the jaw. Its relations have been noticed at p. 28. Several lymphatic glands, belonging to the deep cervical group, Lymphatic lie along the internal jugular vein, under cover of the sterno- gi'"«^s- mastoid muscle ; and another set of smaller glands {submaxillary hjm'phatic glands) is placed below the base of the jaw. Directions. The student has to proceed next with the examina- tion of the individual parts that have been referred to in the triangular spaces. Anterior jugular vein. This vein lies near the middle line A^^^^^^^^^^^.^jj^ of the neck, and its size is dependent upon the degree of develop- •'""^ ment of the external jugular. Beginning in some small branches below the chin, the vein descends to the sternum, and then bends outwards beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, to open into the external64 dissectioj^ of the neck. joins jugular, or into the subclavian vein. In tlie neck tlie anterior and Jugular.^ external jugular veins communicate. There are two anterior veins^ one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other ; and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. In many subjects the lower part of the anterior jugular vein is joined by a considerable branch which runs downwards, along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the facial vein. Sterno- The STERNO-CLEiDO-MASTOiD MUSCLE (fig. 16,^) fomis the super- muscie*^ ficial prominence of the side of the neck. It is narrower in the centre than at the ends, and arises below by two heads of has its origin which are separated by an elongated interval. The inner sternum and liead is fixed by a narrow tendon to the anterior surface of the clavicle, fj-gf; piece of the sternum ; and the outer head has a wide fleshy attachment to the sternal third of the clavicle. From this origin the heads are directed upwards, the internal passing backwards, and the external almost vertically, and join about the middle of the and inser- neck in a flattened belly. Near the skull the muscle ends in a skuil^-* broad tendon, which is inserted into the mastoid process at the outer aspect from tip to base, and by a thin aponeurosis into a rough surface behind that process, and into the outer part of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, position to The muscle divides the lateral surface of the neck into two other parts, ^j,j^^jjg^^|^p spaces. On its cutaneous aspect the sterno-mastoid is covered by the integuments, the platysma and the deep fascia, and is crossed by the external jugular vein, and by the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves. If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts :— The clavicular origin is superficial to the anterior scalenus and omo- hyoid muscles, the transverse cervical and suprascapular arteries, and the phrenic nerve. The sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery w^ith its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus, the middle scalenus, and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skull on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital artery, and part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nei^^e perforates the muscular fibres about the junction of the upper and middle thirds, use. Action. Both muscles acting bend the cervical part of the spine, carrying the head forwards; but one muscle will turn the face to the opposite side. In conjunction with other muscles attached to the mastoid process, one sterno-mastoid will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two muscles will assist in elevating the sternum. Omo-hyoid The OMO-HYOID MUSCLE crosses beneath the sterno-mastoid, and begins^at consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small intermediate tendon the scapula, (fig. 15, ■^). The origin of the muscle from the scapula, and the relations of the posteiior belly are to be studied in the dissection of and ends at the back. From the intervening tendon the anterior fleshy belly hyoidbone: ^^g^ .3^ directed upwards along the outer border of the sterno-INFRA-HYOID MUSCLES. 65 liyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great cornu. The anterior belly is in contact with the fascia, after escaping relations; from beneath the sterno-mastoid, and rests on the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. This part of the muscle crosses the caro- tid vessels on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Action. The omo-hyoid muscle depresses and tends to draw back- use. wards the hyoid bone. The STERNO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 16, ^) is a fiat thin band nearer sterno- the middle line than the preceding. It arises from the inner end nmscie: of the clavicle at its posterior aspect, from the back of the manubrium and the cartilage of the first rib. From this origin it ascends to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, internal to the preceding muscle. Its fibres are often interrupted near the clavicle by a tendinous intersection. One surface is covered by the sterno-mastoid and the fascia, relations; When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found to touch the sterno-thyroid, the thyro-hyoid, and the thyroid cartilage. The right and left muscles are separated by an interval which is wider below. Action. It draws the hyoid bone downwards after swallowing ; use. and in laborious respiration it will aid in raising the sternum. The STERNO-THYROID MUSCLE is broader and shorter than the sterno- sterno-hyoid, beneath which it lies. It arises from the posterior muscle: surface of the sternum and cartilage of the first rib below the sterno- hyoid, and is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it meets the thyro-hyoid muscle. The inner border touches its fellow below, while the outer relations; reaches over the carotid artery. The superficial surface is for the most part covered by the preceding hyoid muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, the larynx, and the thyroid body. A transverse tendinous line frequentl}' crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to draw downwards the larynx after use. deglutition, but in conjunction with the following muscle it can also act on the hyoid bone. Like the sterno-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THYRO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 16, ^) forms a continuation of Thyro- the sterno-thyroid. Arising from the oblique line of the thyroid Jj^^^^g^ig, cartilage, the fibres ascend to the anterior half of the great cornu, and the outer part of the body of the hyoid bone. On the muscle lie the omo-hyoid and the steriio-hyoid; and beneath it are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. Action. It draws up the larynx towards the hyoid bone, as in "se. swallowing. The sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid together fix the thyroid cartilage for the action of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Directions. The remaining parts included in this section are the scaleni muscles and the subclavian blood-vessels, with the cervical F66 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Dissection of the subclavian artery and its brandies : of right lymphatic tiiict; of brachial plexus; of cervical plexus. Number of scalene muscles. Scalenus anticus: origin; insertion ; relations, nerves and the carotid blood-vessels. The student may examine them in the order here given. Dissection, (fig. 17). Supposing the sterno-mastoid cut, the fat and fascia are to be taken away from the lower ]3art of the neck, so as to prepare the scaleni muscles with the subclavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dissection the anterior scalenus muscle will be seen ascending from the first rib to the lower cervical vertebrae, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in front of it, the latter crossing it near the rib. The jjart of the subclavian artery on the inner side of the scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its branches, but also of the branches of the symj^athetic nerve which course over and along it from the neck to the chest. This dissec- tion will be facilitated by the removal of the remaining part of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general easily found, except the superior intercostal, which is to be sought in the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib. On the branch (inferior thyroid) ascending to the thyroid body, or near it, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; and the dissector should follow down- wards from it a small cardiac nerve to the thorax. Only the origin and first part of the arterial branches can be now seen ; their termination is met with in other stages of this dissection, or in the dissection of the other parts of the body. Next the student should seek the small right lymphatic duct that opens into the subclavian vein at its junction with the internal jugular. A notice of it will be given Avith the lymphatics of the thorax. The outer part of the subclavian artery having been already prepared, let the dissector remove more completely the fibrous tissue from the nerves of the brachial plexus. From the plexus trace the small branch to the subclavius muscle, and the branches to the rhomboid and serratus muscles, which pierce the middle scalenus. If it is thought necessary, the anterior scalenus may be cut through after the artery has been studied. Clean the cervical plexus, and seek its muscular branches, the small twigs to join the descendens noni, and the roots of the phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the middle scalenus muscle be defined, as it lies beneath the cervical nerves. The SCALENI MUSCLES are usually described as three in number, and are named from their relative position, anterior, middle, and posterior ; they extend from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and second ribs. The SCALENUS ANTICUS (fig. 17, ^) is somewhat conical in shape, and arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. It is inserted into the upper surface and inner border of the first rib, surrounding the rough mark or projection on this part of the bone known as the scalene tubercle. More deeply seated below than above, the murtcle is concealed bySCALENE MUSCLES. 67 the clavicle and the clavicular part of the stern o-mastoid : the phrenic nerve lies along its anterior surface, and the subclavian vein with vessels, crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the internal jugular vein. Beneath it are the pleura, the subclavian artery, and and nerves; the nerves of the brachial plexus. The attachment to the vertebrae Fig. 17.* corresponds with the origin of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Action. The anterior muscle raises strongly the first rib, in con- use. sequence of its forward attachment. If the rib is fixed, it bends forwards the lower part of the neck. The SCALENUS MEDius MUSCLE (fig. 17, ^) is larger than the scalenus niedius : * A view of the common carotid and subclavian arteries (Quain's " Arteries.") 1. Anterior scalenus, vfiih the phrenic nerve on it. 2. Middle scalenus. 3. Levator anguli scapulae. 4. Omo-hyoid. 5. Rectus capitis anticus major. 6. Common carotid artery. 7. Subclavian vein. 8. Subclavian artery, 9. Digastric muscle. 10. Parotid gland. 11. Submaxillary gland, 12. Thyroid body. 13. Trapezius muscle, reflected. r 268 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. origin insertion parts in contact with it: Scalenus posticus: attach- ments ; Subclavian artery extends to upper limb, is divided into three parts. First part, internal to scalenus, is deep. In front of, behind, and below it. Veins with the artery. antetior, and extends highest of all on the vertebrae. Its origin is from the posterior tubercles of the transverse ]:)rocesses of all the cervical vertebrae (fig. 48, d) ; and it is inserted into an impression on the upper surface of the first rib, extending from the tuberosity behind to the groove for the subclavian artery in front. In contact with the anterior surface are the subclavian artery and the cervical nerves, together with the sterno-mastoid muscle ; the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus, and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The fibres are perforated by the nerves of the rhomboid and serratus muscles. Action. Usually it elevates the first rib. With the rib fixed, the cervical part of the spine can be inclined laterally by one muscle. The SCALENUS POSTICUS (fig. 48, f) is inconsiderable in size, and appears to be part of the preceding muscle. Arising from two or three of the lower cervical transverse processes, it is inserted below, by a thin tendon about half an inch A\dde, into the second rib in front of the serratus posticus superior. Action. It acts as an elevator of the second rib ; and its fibres having the same direction as those of the medius, it will help to incline the neck in the same Avay. The SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY (fig. 17) is the first portion of the large trunk supplying the upper limb with blood, and is thus desig- nated from its position beneath the clavicle. On the right side, this vessel (^) is derived from the bifurcation of the innominate artery behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the outer border of the first rib. To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the top of the lung and the first rib, and between the scaleni muscles. For the purpose of describing its numerous connections the vessel is divided into three parts ; the first extending from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath the scalenus ; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the outer edge of the first rib. First part. Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery lies deeply in the neck, and ascends somewhat from its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings with the platysma and the deep fascia ; the sterno- mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles ; and a strong deep process of fascia froiu the inner border of the scalenus muscle. Behind and below, it rests against the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel; and the apex of the lung separates the artery from the vertebras and the posterior ends of the first and second ribs. Veins. The innominate vein lies below and rather in front of this part of the artery. The internal jugular vein crosses the arterial trunk close to the scalenus ; and underneath this vein, with the same direction, lies the vertebral vein. Much more superficial, and separated from the artery by muscles, is the deep part of the anterior jugular vein.SUBCLAVIAN AETEKY. 69 Nerves. In front of tlie artery lies the pneunio-gastric nerve, near Position of to the internal jugular vein; and inside this, the lower cardiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Beneath the subclavian artery winds the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric ; and one or two branches of the sympathetic nerve form loops around the vessel. Second part. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is not so, deep as in Second part the first part of its course, and at this spot it rises highest above the ^"^g^^^g clavicle. It is covered by the integuments, platysraa, and deep in front,' fascia; then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid; and lastly by the anterior scalenus. Behind and below the artery are behind, and the pleura and lung. below. Veins. Below the level of the artery, and separated from it by Position of the anterior scalenus muscle, lies the arch of the subclavian vein. ^^"^' Nerves. In front of the scalenus descends the phrenic nerve, of nerves to Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the artery, large cervical nerves; and the trunk formed by the last cervical and first dorsal nerves is behind the artery. Third part. Beyond the scalenus the artery traverses the Third part clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (fig. 15), and is nearer the surface than in the rest of its course : this j)art of the is super- vessel is enclosed in a sheath of the deep cervical fascia, which it receives as it passes from between the scaleni. It is comparatively superficial while in the space before mentioned, for it is covered Parts cover- only by the integuments, the platysma, and deep fascia; but near ' its termination the vessel gets under cover of the clavicle and sub- clavius muscle, and the suprascapular vessels cross in front of it. In this part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first ^^^^ beneath, rib, which is interposed between it and the pleura; and the insertion of the scalenus medius is behind it. Feins. The subclavian vein approaches the artery, not being Position of separated by muscle, but lies commonly at a lower level. The ' external jugular vein crosses it near the scalenus muscle ; and the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, which enter the jugular, sometimes form a plexus over this part of the artery. Nerves. The large nerves of the brachial plexus are mostly above of nerves to the artery, but the lowest trunk is still behind and close to the ^^^^^y- vessel; and the small nerve to the subclavius crosses it about the middle. Superficial to the cervical fascia lie the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus. Peculiarities. The artery may spring as a separate trunk from Peculiarities the arch of the aorta, in which case it takes a deeper course than ° ^^^s^^' usual to reach the interval between the scaleni muscles. The level of the arch formed by the subclavian artery in tlie neck level and varies in different subjects (see p. 56) ; and occasionally the vessel pierces, or even passes in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. Branches. The chief branches of the subclavian artery are four Branches of in number. Three of these arise from the first part of the arterial ««bciavian: trunk :—one (vertebral) ascends to the head; another (internal from first, mammary) descends to the chest; and the remaining one (thyroid .axis) is. a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and70 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. second, and third part. Vertebral artery in the neck. Small branches. Vertebral vein, and branches. Internal mammary artery in the neck. Thyroid axis divides into three. Supra- scapular artery. Transverse cei-vical artery: outwards to tlie thyroid body and .tlie slionlder. Tliese arise commonly near the scalenns muscle, so as to leave an interval at the beginning of the trunk free from offsets. This interval varies in length from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from less than a quarter of an inch to an inch and three-quarters. In some instances the branches are scattered over the first part of the artery. The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises beneath the an- terior scalenus from the second part of the artery, and gives off the deep cervical branch : a small sj)inal artery frequently comes from this part of the trunk. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, the internal mammary, the suprascaptilar, or the thyroid axis may be added. The vertchral artery is generally the first and largest branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and posterior part of the trunk. Ascending between the contiguous l)orders of the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull through the foramina in the other cervical vertebrae. Before the artery enters its aperture it lies behind the internal jugular vein, and is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery. It is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies small muscular offsets. Its farther course and distribution will be given afterwards. The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to which it is here sujoerficial, and descends over the subclavian artery to join the innominate vein ; it receives the dee}) cervical vein, and the branch {anterior vertebral vein) that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. The internal mammarij branch leaves the lower j)art of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, and on the outer side of the innominate vein, enters the thorax between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleura. As the artery dis- appears in the chest, it is crossed superficially by the j)hrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be learnt with the dissection of those parts. Thyroid axix. This is a short thick trunk (fig. 17) which arises from the front of the subclavian artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches—one to the thyroid body, and two to the back of the shoulder. The suprascapidar branch courses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, to the superior border of the scapula, and entering the supraspinous fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are more fully seen in the dissection of the back. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the suj)erficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. (See the dissection of the back.)71 SUBCLAVIAN VESSELS. In its course outwards tlirougii the posterior triangular space, this branch crosses in front of the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, but usually behind the omo-hyoid. Some small offsets are supplied bj it to the parts in the posterior triangle, offsets. In many bodies the transverse branch arising from the thyroid size and axis is of small size, and ends as the superficial cervical artery, ending vary, while the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the subclavian trunk (fig, 17). The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid axis, inferior Directed inwards with a flexuous course to the thyroid body, this artery"' branch passes beneath the common carotid artery and the accom- panying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle, to the side of the trachea. Behind the lateral lobe of the thyroid body it crosses either in front of or behind the recurrent nerve, and divides into branches which enter the lower part of the gland, and communicate Avith the superior thyroid and its fellow. Near the larynx an inferior laryngeal branch is directed upwards gives laryn- Avith the nerve of the same name, and other offsets are furnished to ^^^^ ofiset, the trachea and the neighbouring muscles. The ascending cervical branch of the thyroid is directed upwards ascend. Ijetween the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, and brancii. euds in branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina. The veins corresj)onding with the branches of the thyroid axis Veins cor- have the following destination :—those with the suprascapular and lTf,irterielf transverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein, beginning in the thyroid body, descends on the front of the trachea to the innominate vein. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior part of the Superior subclavian, and arching over the apex of the lung, passes downwards branch! in front of the neck of the first rib : its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical artery, Deep Avhich passes backwards between the transverse process of the last braneli. cervical vertebra and the first rib, lying internal to the two hinder scaleni muscles and the ileshy slips continued upwards from the erector spinte, to end beneath the complexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. A spinal branch is frequently given from the second part of the Spinal arteiy ; its offsets are continued into the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina. The SUBCLAVIAN VEIN is much shorter than the companion artery. Subclavian reaching only from the outer edge of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus. It is a continuation of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the innominate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus. Branches. The subclavian vein is joined at the outer edge of the its anterior scalenus ]iy the external jugular vein, and sometimes also ^^^^^l^^s:DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 72 opening of lymphatic ducts. Valves. Position may vary. Cervical nerves: position and number. First two differ from rest. Brachial plexus, formed by five nerves. Disposition of nerves in the plexus. Branche:- in the neck are:— Nerves of scaleni an<l longus colli, by the anterior jugular. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 29, ^); and at the like spot on the left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic duct ends (fig. 29, ^). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian trunk is placed outside the opening of the external jugular vein. It should be borne in mind that occasionally the vein is as high in the neck as the third part of its companion artery ; and that it has been seen in a few instances with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES spring from the common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. These nerves are eight in number, and are equally divided between the cervical and brachial plexuses ; the upper four being combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter plexus. Close to their origin they are joined by ofifsets of communication from the sympathetic cord. To this general statement some addition is needed for the first two nerves, the peculiarities of which are noticed in Section XVIII. Brachial plexus (fig. 18). The lower four cervical nerves and the larger part of the first dorsal are blended in this plexus ; and a fasciculus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the neck to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nerves lie at fi-rst between the scaleni muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebrse, and afterwards in the posterior triangular space. The arrangement of the nerves in the plexus is as follows:— The fifth and sixth nerves unite near tlie vertebrae, forming an upper trunk ; the seventh remains distinct and constitutes a middle trunk ; and the eighth cervical and first dorsal join beneath the anterior scalenus in a lower trunk. Near the outer border of the middle scalenus these three trunks bifurcate, each giving off an anterior and a posterior division. As they pass beneath the clavicle the anterior divisions of the upper and middle trunks join to form the outer cord of the plexus ; the posterior divisions of the three trunks by their union give rise to the posterior cord; while the large anterior division of the lower trunk is continued as the inner cord. The three cords accompany the subclavian artery, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla where the nerves of the limb arise. Branches. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. Those of the upper set end mostly in muscles of the lower j)art of the neck and of the scapula ; while the lower set consists of the branches to the upper limb, with which they will be described. Branches above the clavicle. Branches for the scaleni and longus colli muscles. These small twigs arise from the nerves close to the intervertebral foramina, and are seen when the anterior scfilenus is divided.73 BEANCHES OF BEACHIAL PLEXUS. The branch for the rhomboid muscles springs from the fifth nerve, Nerve of and perforates the fibres of the scalenus medius; it is directed backwards beneath the levator anguli scapulae to its destination. rhomboids. Fig. 18.* Branches are given usually from this nerve to the levator anguli scapulae. The nerve of the serratus (posterior thoracic nerve) arises from the Nerve of * Diagram of the brachial plexus. The dotted line indicates the level at which the cords are crossed by the clavicle, civ. to cviii. Fourth to eighth cervical nerves, di, and dii. First and second dorsal nerves, li, and 2i. First and second intercostal nerves. plir. Phrenic nerve. rh. Nerve to rhomboids, pt. Posterior thoracic nerve, sc. Branch to subclavius. sps. Supra-scapular nerve.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. iiftli, sixth, and generally also the seA^enth, nei^es near the inter- vertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is continued downwards behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on its axillary surface. The nerve oftlie suhclavius muscle is a slender branch, which arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the deep surface of the muscle ; it often sends a twig to the j)hrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The suprascajndar nerve is the largest of these branches, and arises from the trunk of the jjlexus formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. It is destined for the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and will be dissected with the arm. Occasionally an offset from the fifth cervical trunk joins the phrenic nerve on t]\e anterior scalenus muscle. The CERVICAL PLEXUS, formed by the upper four cervical nerves, lies beneath the upper half of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguli scapulae. Each nerve entering the plexus, except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch, and these unite with corresponding parts of the adjacent nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these arches or loops the different branches arise :— The branches are superficial and deep. Those of the superficial set are again subdivided into ascending and descending, and have been described with the posterior triangular space of the neck (p. 57). The ascending branches may be now seen to sj)ring from the union of the second and third nerves ; and the descending, to take origin from the loop between the third and fourth nerves. The deep set of branches remains to be examined : they are muscular and communicating, and may be arranged in an internal and an external series. Internal series. The 2)hrenic or muscular nerve of the dia- phragm (fig. 17) is derived from the fourth, or third and fourth nerves of the plexus ; and it may be joined by a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior scalenus from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the sub- clavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an off'set of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve crosses over the first jDart of tjie sub- clavian artery. The branches to the ansa hyjjoglossi are two in number : one arises from the second, and the other from the third cervical nerve. They are directed inwards over or under the internal jugular vein to join in a loop with the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve in front of the common carotid artery (p. 77). Muscular branches are furnished to the rectus anticus major and75 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. loiigus colli muscles from the trunks of tlie nerves close to tlie Brandies to intervertebral foramina. umscies.^^^^^ Some muscular and connecting branches from tlie loop between tbe Branches of first two nerves will be afterwards seen (p. 113). first nerve. External series. Muscular branches are supplied from tbe Branches to second nerve to the sterno-mastoid; from the third and fourth "muscles, nerves to the levator anguli scapulae and middle scalenus ; and from the loop between the same nerves to the trapezius. Connecting branches with the sinnal accessory nerve exist in three Branches places. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle ; next, in the posterior'^p^af triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union accessory. Avith the branches distributed to tlie trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the chief vessel for the supply Common of blood to the neck and head (fig. 17, The origin of tlie vessel "^^^^f, differs on the two sides, being at the lower part of the neck on the right side, and in the thorax on the left side. The right vessel commences opposite the sterno-clavicular articu- origin; lation at the bifurcation of the innominate artery, and ends at, or a little above, the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, on a level with the fourth cervical vertebra, by dividing into external and internal carotids. The course of the artery is along the side of the course; trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the larynx ; and its position will be marked by a line from the sterno-clavicular situation, articulation to a point midwa}^ between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the carotid artery has the follow- ing connections with the surrounding parts :—As high as the cricoid ^^^^^^^.j^^ cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common ^^^"^^'"S^' coverings of the skin, platysma, and fascijB ; and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, omo-liyoid, and sterno-thyroid. But from the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is more superficial, being covered only by the sterno-mastoid with the common investments of the neck. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli and scalenus beneath it, anticus muscles, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, and on its the oesophagus and pharynx, and the thyroid body, the last over- lapping the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Veins. The large internal jugular vein lies on the outer side of Position of the artery, being closely a^^plied to it in the upper part of its course, but separated from it below by an interval about half an inch wide : on the left side the vein is nearer to the artery below, as will be afterwards seen. One or two superior thyroid veins cross the upper end of the arterial trunk ; and opposite the thyroid body another small vein (middle thyroid) is directed backwards over the vessel.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. of arteries, of nerves to carotid. Branches none. Internal jugular vein is close to side of artery, except below: brandies. Differences in origin of arterv, in division. Dissection. T3igastric muscle has two bellies, Near tlie clavicle the anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of the artery, but is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Arteries. An offset of the superior thyroid artery descends over the upper part of the sheath ; and the inferior thyroid crosses behind it near the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Nerves. The descending branch of the hypoglossal lies in front of the arterj^, crossing from the outer to the inner side, and is joined there by the communicating branches from the cervical plexus. The pneumo-gastric lies within the sheath, behind and between the artery and the vein. The sympathetic cord and branches i-est on the spine behind the sheath. All the nerves above mentioned have a longitudinal direction; but the inferior laryngeal or recurrent crosses obliquely inwards beneath the sheath, towards the lower end of the artery. As a rule, the common carotid artery does not furnish any collateral branch, though it is very common for the superior thyroid to spring from its upper end. At the terminal bifurcation into the two carotids the artery is slightly bulged. The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN extends upwards to the base of the skull, but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid artery is now seen. Placed on the outer side of the artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian to form the innominate trunk. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close throughout, for at the lower part of the neck there is a space between the two, in which the vagus nerve is seen crossing (on the right side only) the subclavian artery. Sometimes the vein overlaps the artery to a considerable extent. The lower part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or sinus. Near its ending it becomes contracted, and is provided with a single or double valve. In this part of its course the vein receives the superior and middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities of the carotid. The origin of the artery on the right side may be above or below the point stated. Mention has been made of the difference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that the common carotid may not be divided into two (p. 62). As a very rare occurrence, instead of one there may be two trunks issuing from beneath the hyoid muscles. Dissection. The dissector may next trace out completely the trunk of the external carotid (fig. 19), and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid, and define their origin and insertion. The DIGASTRIC MUSCLE (fig. 17, ^) consists of two fleshy bellies, united by an intervening tendon. The posterior, the larger of the two, arises from the digastric fossa on the inner side of the mastoid process ; while the anterior belly is fixed to the depression by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw. From these attachmentsHYPOGLOSSAL NERYE. 77 the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon, which is siir- which are rounded by fibres of the stylo-hyoid, and is united by an aponeurotic joined by a expansion to its fellow, and to the body and part of the great cornu ' of the liyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at the position to posterior end, where it is beneath the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid vessels and tlie accompanying veins and nerves ; and is j)laced across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to the fore part of the hyoid bone. Along its lower border lie the occipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve, the former passing backwards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundary of a space between it, the The nmspie jaw, and the base of the skull, which is subdivided into two by the space^^^ stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are contained containing the parotid gland (^°), and the vessels and nerves in connection " with it (p. 29) ; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland (^^), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses Use. that bone and opens the mouth. If the jaw is fixed, the two bellies acting will elevate the hyoid bone. The STYLO-HYOID MUSCLE is thin and slender, and lies imme- stylo-hyoid diately above the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises from "i"«cie: the posterior surface of the styloid process near the base, and is inserted into the outer part of the body of the hyoid bone. insertion; The muscle has the same relations as the posterior belly of the surrounds digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon JSonT of that muscle. Action. This muscle elevates the hyoid bone in swallowing, and ^^^e. with the posterior belly of the digastric, prevents the bone being carried forwards by the other elevators. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (twelfth cranial) apjjears in the anterior Twelfth triangle at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, where it hooks aiTterio? round the occipital artery ; it is then directed forwards to the triangle: tongue beneath the tendon of that muscle, and disappears in front uncler the mylo-hyoid. In this course the nerve passes over the two carotids ; and near the great cornu of the hyoid bone it also crosses the lingual artery. From this part arise the descending branches; branch, and a small muscular offset to the thyro-hyoid. The descending branch leaves the trunk of the hypoglossal as it turns one to iiyoid round the occipital artery, and descends on the front of, or more "^^^^^'^^^^ frequently within, the carotid sheath to below the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating branches of the is joined cervical nerves so as to form a single or double loop {ansa hypoglossi) cervical with the concavity turned upwards. The descending branch gives nerves, an offset to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; and from the loop branches proceed to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles : sometimes another offset is78 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. continued to the tliorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves."^ The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 19, cl) Springs froni the bifurcation of the common carotid opj^osite the thyro-hyoid interval, and furnishes branches to the neck, and face, and the outer part of the head. From the place of origin it ascends in front of the mastoid process, and ends just below the neck of the lower jaw in the internal maxillary and temporal branches. The artery lies at first in. front of the internal carotid, but it afterwards inclines somewhat back- wards and becomes superficial to that vessel. Its position would be marked with sufficient accuracy by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. Parts super- At first the external carotid is overlaid by the sterno-mastoid, iiciaitoit, and by the common coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz., the skill, and the superficial and deep fascia; with the platysma. But above the level of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and higher still it is concealed by the parotid gland. At its beginning beneath it. the artery rests against the pharynx : but above the angle of the jaw it is placed over the styloid process and stylo-pharyngeus and in front, muscle, whicli separate it from the internal carotid. In front of the upper part of the vessel are the ramus of the jaw and the stylo- maxillary ligament. c'"t'*c" til Veins. There is not any companion vein with the external carotid, tiie artery; as with iiiost artciies ; but in the parotid gland the temporo-maxil- lary vein lies on it, and the anterior division of this trunk frequently runs with the artery beneath the digastric muscle. Near tlie begin- ning it is crossed by the facial and lingual branches joining the internal jugular vein, and nerves. Nerves are directed from behind forwards over and under the artery. At the lower border of the digastric the hypoglossal lies over the vessel, and aliove that muscle it is crossed by the two divisions of the facial nerve. Three nerves lie beneath it—begin- ning below, the small external laryngeal; a little higher, the superior laryngeal; and near the angle of the jaw, the glosso- pharyngeal. Its branches The hrcmches of the external carotid are numerous, and are are anterior, ^^^g^ggg^]^ ^^j^^ anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The anterior set comprises branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, and the face, posterior, viz., superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. In the posterior and ascend- Set are the occipital and posterior auricular branches. And the • ascending set includes the ascending j^haryngeal, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Besides these, the external carotid gives other l^ranches to the neighbouring muscles and the parotid gland. External carotid artery; extent: course and direction. * Both the descending and the thyro-hyoid branches are composed of fibres which pass from the first and second cervical nerves into the hypoglossal trunk in the communication near the skull.BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID. The arrangement of the branches of the carotid may be altered by change in their closer aggregation oa the trunk. The usual number may be diminished by two or more uniting into one ; or it may be increased number, by some of the secondary offsets being transferred to the parent trunk. Directions. All the branches, except the ascending pharyngeal, Branches now sieen are— Fig. 19.* lingual and internal maxillary, may be now examined ; but those three will be described afterwards with the regions they occupy. The superior thyroid artery (e) arises near the great cornu of the Superior hyoid bone, and passes beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid and ^^y^^^'^ steino-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to Avliich it is dis- tributed on the anterior aspect. Tliis artery is superficial in the has these offsets; External carotid aud its superficial braach.es (" AuatoiDj' of the Arteries," Quain). a. Oommon carotid, b. Internal jugular vein. c. Internal carotid. (/. External carotid, e. Superior thyroid. /. Lingual, g. Facial, h. In- ternal maxillary. /. Superficial temporal, m. Supraorbital. 7i. External nasal, o. Angular branch of facial, p. Lateral nasal, r. Superior coro- nary, s. Inferior coronary, f. Inferior labial, u. Submental artery.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to the lowest constrictor and the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The hyoid branch is very small, and runs inwards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the muscles attached to that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. h. A sterno-mastoid branch descends in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The superior larijngeal artery pierces the membrane between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and communicates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into the internal jugular vein. The facial artery (g) arises above the lingual, and is directed upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery passes under the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and then beneath the submaxillary gland, under cover of which it makes a sigmoid turn. Its anatomy in the face has been referred to (p. 27). From the cervical part branches are given to the pharynx, and to the structures below the jaw, viz. :— a. The inferior or ascending palatine branch ascends to the pharynx beneath the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyn- geus muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, which it reaches by turning over the upper border of the superior constrictor muscle. Its place in the palate is frequently supplied by an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in offsets to that body. c. Glandular branches are sup23lied to the submaxillary gland from the part of the artery in contact with it, d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and courses forwards on the mylo-hyoid muscle to the anterior belly of the digastric, where it ends in offsets : some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone, one or two perforating the mylo-hyoid and anastomosing with the sublingual arterj^ The facial vein (j>. 28) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical part of its course it receives branches corresponding to the offsets of the artery ; and it frequently sends a considerable branch downwards to join the anterior jugular vein (p. 64). The occipital artery springs from the carotid ojDposite the facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and ascends to the inner side of the mastoid process. Here it turns backwardsEEAJ^CHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID. 81 veins. in tlie occipital grove of the temporal bone, passing above the trans- verse process of the atlas, and then runs between the muscles ends on attached to the occipital bone, to become cutaneous and ramify over ' the back of the head (p. 6). In the part of its course now exposed the artery lies beneath the digastric muscle, and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves. The occipital artery gives small branches to the surrounding a sterno- muscles, and one larger branch to the sterno-mastoid, which bends JJp^iJci^. downwards over the hypoglossal and enters the muscle in company with the spinal accessory nerve : this branch frequently arises sometimes a directly from the external carotid. In some bodies there is also a meningeal, small meningeal branch entering the skull by the jugular foramen. The offsets at the back of the neck are seen in the dissection of that region. The occipital veins are two or three in number, and pass down- Occipital wards between the muscles of the back of the neck to enter the deep cervical vein. They communicate through the mastoid foramen with the lateral sinus in the interior of the skull. Th.^posterior auricular artery is smaller than the preceding branch, Posterior and takes origin above the digastric muscle. Between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides into two branches for the ear and ■occiput (p. 6). A small branch, stylo-mastoid, enters the foramen of the same a branch to name, and supplies the middle ear. tympanum The posterior auricular vein is of considerable size, and descends Posterior over the upper end of the sterno-mastoid muscle to join the veiii?^^^^^ beginning of the external jugular. The superficial temporal artery (i) is one of the terminal Temporal branches of the external carotid, and in direction forms the con- ^^^^^^" tinuation of that trunk. Ascending in the parotid gland and over the posterior root of the zygoma, it divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches which are distributed over the termmation front and side of the head (p. 5). Before dividing the artery gives off the following branches :— a. Parotid branches are furnished to the gland of the same name; [^^^^^^^,^^5^^ articular twigs to the articulation of the lower jaw ; and muscular to articuia- branches to the masseter. b. Some anterior auricular offsets are distributed to the pinna and and to ear; meatus of the external ear. c. The transverse facial branch leaves the temporal artery close to ^° its origin, and is directed forwards over the masseter muscle (p. 28); on the side of the face it supplies the muscles and integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. d. The middle temporal branch pierces the temporal aponeurosis ^Jjj^pQ^J.gJ^j^ just above the zygoma, and enters the substance of the temporal muscle muscle : it anastomoses with the temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. e. A small orbital branch runs forwards between the layers of the ^^'^ fascia temporal fascia, and is distributed to the superficial structures near GDISSECTIOK OF THE PTEEYGOID REGION. 82 Temporal vein. the eye (fig. 2, h): this anastomoses with an offset of the lachrymal artery (p. 46). The temporal vein begins on the side of the head (p. 6) and lies with its artery in front of the ear. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; it then receives branches correspond- ing to the other offsets of the artery; and it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. The lower part of the neck will now be left for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied salt or some other preservative. Section YI. PTEEYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. Contents of the region. Dissection. Masseter muscle: origin, and inser- tion ; consists of two layers; muscle nearly sub- lies on the jaw; In this region are included the muscles superficial to and beneath the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the temporo-maxillary articulation. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the; jaw, are the internal maxillary blood-vessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to tlie bone, has been partly laid bare in, the dissection of the facial nerve. To" see it more fully, the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should be cut through and turned back- wards, and the fascia cleaned off the surface of the muscle. Should there be any. tow or cotton-wool left in the mouth let if be removed. The MASSETER (fig. 7, arises by a flattened tendon from the lower border of the zygomatic arch, including a small portion of the malar process of the superior maxilla, and by fine fleshy fibres from the dee23 surface of the zygomatic process and the malar bone. It is inserted into the outer surface of the coronoid j^rocess and ramus, of the lower jaw, extending from the angle behind to the level of the second molar tooth in front. The superficial fibres are inclined downwards and backwards, and form a layer that can be readily separated from the deeper portion of the muscle, in which the fibres run nearly vertically. The lower part of the masseter is covered only by the integu- ments, with the platysma and fascia; but the upper is partly con- cealed by the parotid gland, and is crossed by Stensen's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels and branches of the facial nerve The anterior border projects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of loose fat resembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle covers the ranms of the jaw, and the masseteric branches of nerve and artery entering its deep surface. Action. It raises the lower jaw with the internal pterygoid in the mastication of the food.TEMPOEAL MUSCLE. 83 Dissection. To lay bare the temporal muscle to its insertion, tlie To see following dissection may be made :—The temporal fascia is to be temporal detached from the upper border of the zygomatic arch and removed muscle, from the surface of the muscle. Next, the arch is to be sawn through in front and behind, so as to include all its length ; and is to be thrown down (without being cut olf) with the masseter still attached to it, by separating the fibres of that muscle from the ramus of the jaw. In detaching the masseter, its nerve and vessels, which pass through the sigmoid notch, will come into view, and should be dissected out of the muscle. The surface of the temporal muscle may be then cleaned. And J^gl^ioJ*^ to expose its termination, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a Fig. 20.* cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch to the last molar tooth, so as to include the whole insertion of the muscle. Before sawing the bone let the student find and separate from the muscle the buccal vessels and nerve issuing from beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised and the fat removed, in order that the lower fibres of the temporal muscle, and their contiguity to the external pterygoid beneath them, may be seen. The TEMPORAL MUSCLE (fig. 20, ^) arises from the fascia covering Origin of it, and from the bones forming the temporal fossa (p. 4), reaching mJJgcie^^ upwards to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and down- * Superficial view of the pterygoid region (Quain's ''Arteries"). 1. Tem- poral muscle, 2. External pterygoid. 3, Internal pterygoid, 4. Buccinator, 5. Digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, cut and thrown back. 6. Common carotid. 7, External carotid. 8. Internal maxillary artery (beneath the pterygoid instead of over it).—The nerves are omitted in this figure. Cx 2DISSECTIO:^ OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 84 wards to the infratemporal crest on the great whig of the sphenoid bone. From this extensive origin the fibres converge to a tendon, which appears on the outer surface of the muscle, and is inserted into the borders and inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the front of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending downwards nearly to the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve: the last nerve occasionally perforates some of the fibres of the muscle. Action. All the fil)res contracting, the muscle will raise the mandible and press it forcibly against the upper jaw. The hinder fibres acting alone can retract the lower jaw after it has been moved forwards by the external pterygoid. Dissection. For the display of the pterygoid muscles (fig. 20), it will be necessary to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw. But the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be first detached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scalj)el, and the deej) temporal vessels and nerves are to be sought in its fibres, saw through A piece of the ramus is next to be taken away by sawing across the jaw; the bone below the condyle, and again close above the dental foramen ; and to protect the dental vessels and nerve in contact with its inner surface while doing this, the handle of the scalpel may be inserted between them and the bone, and carried downwards to their entrance into the foramen, take it away After the loose piece of bone has been removed, and the sub- ■ jacent parts freed from fat, the pterj^goid muscles will appear,— the external (^) being directed backwards and outwards to the condyle, while the internal (^), which is parallel in direction to the masseter, descends to the angle of the jaw. In removing the abundant fatty tissue, the student must be careful not to take away the thin internal lateral ligament, which lies on the internal pterygoid muscle beneath the ramus, position of Position of vessels. Running forwards over the external pterygoid muscle is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets upwards and downwards : sometimes the artery is placed beneath the muscle. The veins, which form a large plexus between the muscles, may be taken away. Nerves. Position of nerves. Most of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are seen in this dissection. Thus, the masseteric and deep temporal nerves appear between the upper border of the external pterygoid and the skull, while the buccal nerve perforates the fore part of the muscle. Issuing from beneath the lower border of the same muscle are the large inferior dental and lingual nerves, the latter being the anterior of the two ; and coming out behind the condyle of the jaw is the auriculo-temporal nerve. The small posterior dental branch of the superior maxillary nerve is also to be found, lying with the artery of the same name on the hinder part of the upper jaw. External The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 20, ^) is triangular in pterygoid: \ o j / o insertion relations; To dissect pterygoid muscles,PTEEYGOID MUSCLES. 85 shape, and arises by two heads, which are separated by an interval origin; opposite the spheno-maxillary fossa. The upper head is the smaller, and is attached to the fore part of the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone ; the lower head springs from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. From this origin the muscle runs backwards and outwards to be insevted into the insertion, hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw-bone, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the pterygoid is concealed by the temporal muscle relations; and the lower jaw ; and the internal maxillary artery usually lies on it. Its deep surface is in contact with the internal pterygoid, the inferior maxillary nerve, and the internal lateral ligament o^' the jaw. Through the interval between the heads pass the buccai nerve and the internal maxillary artery, when the latter is placed beneath the muscle. The parts in contact with the borders of the external pterygoid have been enumerated above. Action. If both muscles contract, the jaw is moved directly for- use of both wards, so that the lower dental arch is placed in front of the upper; i"'^scles, but if one muscle act alone (say the right), the condyle of the same of one side is drawn forwards, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are moved obliquely to the left across those of the uj^per. By the alternate action of the two muscles the trituration of the food is mainly effected. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 20, ^) croSSeS the direction internal of the external, and is nearly parallel to the ramus of the jaw. It P^^^^ys^^'l '• arises in the pterygoid fossa, mainly from the inner surface of the origin; external pterygoid plate, and by a small slip from the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone and the superior maxilla in front of the pterygoid process. The fibres descend to be inserted into insertion; a rough mark on the inner side of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending from the inferior dental foramen to the angle. On the muscle are placed the dental and lingual nerves, the contiguous dental vessels, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Its deep ^^^^^' surface is in relation with the superior constrictor below, and the tensor palati above. The origin of this muscle embraces the lower part of that of the external pterygoid. Action. It acts with the masseter in raising the mandible. ^se. Temporo-maxillary articulation (figs. 21 and 22). ThisJoi"^?^ ^ ° lower jaw. articulation is a compound joint, being formed by the condyle of the lower jaw and the fore part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, with an interposed disc of fibro-cartilage. The bones are united by the following ligaments :— The ca-psule is a thin membranous tube Avhich is attached above to the temporal bone around the articular surface, and below to the ' condyle of the lower jaw, reaching farther down behind than in front. The cavity in the interior is divided into two parts, upper and lower, by the fibro-cartilage ; and the upper portion of the capsule is wider and looser than the lower. The external lateral ligament is a thickened band of the capsule. External composed of fibres passing from the tubercle at the root of the ^ "'^'86 DISSECTION OF THE PTEEYGOID REGION. zygoma and the adjoining part of the outer surface of that process to the outer and posterior part of the neck of the lower jaw. and internal The internal lateral ligament (fig. 21, ^) is a long, thin, mem- ligament, hranoiis band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it is connected to , a ridge on the inner side of the glenoid fossa, formed by the spinous ^Drocess of the sphenoid and- the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the inner margin of tlie dental foramen in the lower jaw. The ligament lies between the jaw and the internal j^terygoid ; and its origin is concealed by the external pterygoid muscle. The internal maxillary vessels, with the auriculo-temporal and inferior dental nerves, pass between the band and the ramus of the jaw. Dissection. Dissection. After the external lateral ligament and the capsule Fig. 21.* Fig. 22. t Fibro- cartilage shape, and attach- ments : Two syno- vial sacs. have been examined, the interarticular fibro-cartilage will be exposed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 22). The interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 22, is an oval plate, elongated transversely, and thinner in the centre, where it is some- times ]Derforated, than at the margins. The upper surface fits the articular hollow and eminence of the temporal bone, being convex behind and concave in front ; and the lower is moulded to the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the capsule; and in front the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular disc allows a double movement to take place in the articulation, the condyle of the jaw revolving in the socket formed by the fibro-cartilage, while the latter glides forwards and backwards over the temporal articular surface. Two synovial sacs are present in the articulation—a larger one above, and a smaller one below the fibro-cartilage. * Ligaments of the jaw—inner view (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo-maxillavy. f A view of the interior of the temporo-maxillary joint (Bourgery and Jacob). 3, Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage ; the (lark intervals above and below the disc are the synovial cavities.MOVEMENTS OF LOWER JAW. 87 Anotlier structure—the stylo-maxillary ligament (fig. 22, —is Stylo- described as a uniting band to tlie articulation. This is a process iiaam^en7 of the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder border of the ramus of the jaw ; it gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Articular surfaces of the hones. The condyle of the jaw has a form Surfaces of resembling that of a part of a cylinder, with, its axis directed j''^^ obliquely from without inwards and somewhat backwards. The npper articular surface is placed on the squamous part of the and tem- temporal bone, and is larger than that on the jaw. It includes the i^"^'^^ dee-p oval hollow formed b}^ the part of the glenoid fossa in front of the Glaserian fissure, and the convex surface, known as the articular eminence, which forms the anterior boundary of the hollow. Movements of the joint. The lower iaw has up and down, forward Kinds of luoveiiieiit and backward, and oblique movements. In depressing^ the jaw, as in opening the mouth, the condyle moves Jj^^^^^'^JJ^^j^ forwards till it is placed nnder the convexity of the articular iiow condyle eminence ; but the interposed concave fibro-cartilage gives security "i'^^'^^- to the joint. Even with this provision, a slight degree more of sudden motion may throw the condyle off" the j^rominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and give rise to dislocation. Dislocation. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the capsule are state of tightened; and the fibro-cartilage is drawn forwards with the °' ^ condyle b}^ the external pterygoid muscle. When the jaw is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and Shutting the fibro-cartilage glide back into the glenoid fossa ; and the posterior part of the capsule is stretched. Durino- the.horizontal movements forvoards iuidhachcards of the iaw Forward and 1 IT -1 • ^ c 1 1 1 p 1 uackward the condyle is placed successively opposite the iront and back of the movement, temporal articular, surface ; and the fibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even in dislocation. Excessive inption forwards would be prevented by the coronoid process of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch ; and the backward movement is checked by the external lateral ligament and by the meeting of the condyle with the postglenoid process of the temporal bone. The oblique movement is produced by the condyle of one side Oblique advancing on the articular eminence, while the other remains in the how ' glenoid fossa. If the right condyle advances, the chin moves to the produced, left side, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are carried obliquely to the left and forwards across the upper set. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. Dissection. The condyle of the jaw is next to be disarticulated and drawn forwards with the attached external pterygoid muscle, so maxillary as to allow the inferior maxillary nerve to be seen (fig. 23). While ^^e^^''^' cutting through the joint-capsule, the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close beneath. On turning forwards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some its trunk, fat and veins, the dissector will find the trunk of the inferior maxil-^8. dissectio:n- of the pterygoid eegiox. branches; of chorda tympani, and arteries. Internal maxillary artery : course and relations: varies in its position. Branches are in three sets. Those be- neatii jaw. Inferior dental has a branch to niylo-hyoid muscle. Great meningeal artery ends ui slvull; but gives lary nerve. The masseteric, temporal, and buccal branclies of tlie nerve should be traced to a common origin close below the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The dental and lingual nerves should be cleaned beneath the muscle ; and the auriculo-teniporal nerve followed forwards with care from the back of the articulation to its origin from the trunk. The small chorda tymi^ani is to be found joining the back of the lingual nerve near the skull. The large meningeal artery and its offsets are to be sought beneatli the external pterygoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery lies beneath that muscle, and in that case, it and its branches are now to be cleaned. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 20, ^) is oue of the ter- minal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed forwards between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the dental nerve ; it then ascends over the lower portion of the external pterygoid, being placed between it and the temporal muscle ; and finally, it turns inwards opposite the interval between the heads of the external pterygoid to gain the spheno-maxillary fossa. The course of the artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the exter- nal pterygoid ; and when that is the case, the artery reaches the spheno-maxillary fossa by passing between the heads of the muscle, as in the figure. The branches of this artery are numerous, and are classed in three sets ; the first set arises beneath the jaw; the second between the muscles ; and the third in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two chief branches, viz., the inferior dental and the great meningeal, leave the internal maxillary artery while it is in contact with the ramus of the jaw. The inferior dental artery descends between the internal lateral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental nerve ; it supplies the teeth, and ends in the lower part of the face (p. 92). As the artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small mylo-lnjoid branch to the muscle of that name ; this is conducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of its muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The great meningeal artery is the Largest branch of the internal maxillary, and arises opposite the preceding. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle, and between the roots of the auriculo- temporal nerve to the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, through which it passes into the skull. Its course and distribution within the cranial cavity have been already seen (p. 15). Before the artery reaches the foramen, it usually furnishes the following small branches ; but one or more of them may arise directly from the internal maxillary trunk :—INTERJTAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 89 a. The tymjoanic branch passes into tlie tympanum through the branch to GLaserian fissure, and is distributed to the tympanic membrane and ^y^P^"*^'"' parts within the cavity. b. A deep auricular branch arises with the former or separately, to meatus, enters the meatus through the cartilage, or between this and the bone, and ramifies in the meatus and on the tympanic membrane. c. The small meningeal branch begins near the skull, and courses to dura through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve : it "^^^er. ramifies in the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Another small branch springs from the dental artery or the internal Branch with maxillary trunk, and accompanying the lingual nerve, ends in the nefve! cheek and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The branches from the second part of the artery (between the Branches of temporal and external pterygoid) are distributed to the temporal, are—^^^^ masseter, buccinator, and pterygoid muscles. The deep temporal arteries are two in number, anterior and pos- to the terior, and ascend on the side of the skull beneath the temporal muscie^^ muscle. The posterior anastomoses with the middle temporal branch of the superficial temporal artery ; the anterior communi- cates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery (p. 46). The masseteric artery is directed outwards with the nerve of the to the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle, and passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the deep surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other offsets to the muscle from the external carotid trunk. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and to the descends beneath the insertion of the temporal muscle with its com- ' panion nerve : it is distributed to the buccinator muscle and other structures of the cheek, joining branches of the facial artery. The pterygoid branches are uncertain in their position and number ; to pterygoid whether derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter the two jjterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise from the artery in the spheno-maxillary Branches of fossa, only one, the posterior dental, will be now described. The ^^"^^^ • remainder will be examined with the superior maxillary nerve and now seen Meckel's ganglion ; they are infraorbital (p. 102), superior palatine, naso-palatine, Vidian, and pterygo-palatine (Section XIV). The posterior dental branch arises as the artery enters the spheno- is the maxillary fossa, and descends with a tortuous course on the Jieula™^ zygomatic surface of the upper jaw, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Its branches mostly enter the canals of the bone and supply the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, as well as the lining membrane of the antrum; and some external offsets are furnished to the gum. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY VEIN is a short trunk, oftcudoublej whicli internal ' ' maxillary leaves the hinder part of the pterygoid plexus, and runs backwards vein arises beneath the jaw with the first part of the internal maxillary artery, ^^^"^ to join the temporal vein in the parotid gland. , The pterygoid plexus is an extensive network of veins surrounding JjfgJ^f"^''^DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 90 the internal maxillary artery and the pterygoid muscles. Into it the veins corresponding to the branches of the artery empty them- tributaries, selves, and it communicates with the cavernous sinus in the interior of the skull through the foramen ovale and foramen lacerum. From the plexus the large internal maxillary vein leads backwards, and outlets, and another considerable branch, the anterior internal maxillary or deep facial vein, descends to the face to join the facial vein. A prolongation of the plexus into the sphenp-maxillary fossa is often distinguished as the alveolar flexus. Inferior The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 23) is the largest of the maxillary nerve.. Fig. 23.* \ three trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion (p. 18). It leaves the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides immediately below that opening into two principal pieces, viz., an anterior smaller part, which is distributed mainly to muscles, and a larger posterior part, ending in branches which are, with one exception, altogether sensory. In addition to these, the nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle arises from the inner side of the primary trunk. Directions. Should the internal maxillary artery obstruct the view of the nerve, it may be cut through. *" Deep view of the pterygoid region (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Temporal reflected, b. Condyle of the jaw disarticulated, with the external pterygoid attached to it. c. Internal pterygoid. D. Buccinator, r. Masseter thrown down. Nerves : 1. Buccal. 2. Masseteric, cut. 3. Deep temporal. 4. Auriculo-temporal. 6. Chorda tympani. 7. Inferior dental. 8. Lingual. 10. Internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The arteries are not numbered with the exception of the internal maxillary trunk, which is marked with 9.INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. lerve is sensory; The SMALLER PART receives nearly all tlie fibres of tlie motor Anterior root of tlie nerve, and furnishes branches to three of the muscles of the jaw, viz., temporal, masseter, and external pterygoid, and the buccal branch to the cheek. The deev temporal branches (^) are three in number, and enter the supplies T'GlllDOrS,! deep surface of the temporal muscle ; the middle, which is the branches, largest and supplies the greater part of , the muscle, leaves the middle, anterior division of the trunk and ascends close to the bone, above the u|)per border of the external pterygoid ; the posterior is usually posterior, conjoined with the masseteric nerve, and enters the hinder part of the muscle ; and the anterior is given off from the buccal nerve in jj^^^^j-j^j^. front of the external pterygoid. The masseteric branch (^) takes an outward course above the Masseteric, external j^terygoid muscle, and through the sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle, in which it can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the articula- tion of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. The nerve to the external pterygoid generally arises in common Branch to with the buccal nerve, and enters the deep surface of its muscle. pterygo^id. ■ The buccal branch (^), longer and larger than the others, is mainly Buccal a sensory nerve to the cheek. It is first directed forwards between the heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and then descends beneath the coronoid process and insertion of the temporal muscle towards the angle of the mouth. After perforating the pterygoid, it gives off the anterior deep temporal nerve ; and on the surface of gives off the buccinator It divides into branches which form a plexus with temporal, the buccal branches of the facial nerve, and are hnally distributed to the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek. The LARGER PART of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into Posterior three branches—auriculo-teniporal, inferior dental, and lingual. A Inferior few of the fibres of the motor root join the dental nerve, and are "^axillary, conveyed to the mylo-hyoid and digastric muscles. The AURICDLO-TEMPORAL NERVE arises from tlie trunk near Amicuio- the base of the skull, usually by two roots which embrace the ^^"'l**^^^^ middle meningeal artery. In its course to the surface of the head, it is first directed backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle as far as the neck of the jaw, and then upwards with the temporal beneath artery in front of the ear. Its ramifications on the head are described at page 8. In the part now dissected its branches are the and supplies p . ° branches following :— a. Branches of the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to the to the meatus from the nerve beneath the neck of the jaw, and enter that tube between the cartilage and bone. b. Articular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw arises joint of near the same spot as the ]3receding, or from the branches to the meatus. c. The inferior auricular branch sup])lies the tragus and adjacent the ear, and part of the pinna. d. Parotid branches. These small filaments ramify in the gland, parotid; . e. Communicating branches with the otic ganglion. One or two to join otic92 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID EEGlOls. and facial nerve. Inferior dental is between pterygoid then in the jaw, and supplies branch to niylo-hyoid, dental branches to grinding and cutting teeth, branch to lower lip. Dental artery lias an incisor and labial branch. Lingual nerve courses to the tongue no branch here. lilaments pass between the otic ganglion and the "beginning of the auriculo-temporal nerve (p. 149). /. Branches to the facial nerve. Two considerable branches pass forwards round the superficial temporal artery to join the upper trunk of the facial nerve. The iNFEBiOR DENTAL (") is the largest of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. In its course to the canal in the lower jaw, the dental nerve is placed behind and external to the lingual, and lies at first beneath the external pterygoid muscle ; it after- wards rests on the internal pterygoid, and near the dental foramen on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a mental branch. Only one oHset (to the mylo-hyoid muscle) leaves the dental nerve before it enters the bone. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hijoid nerve arises near the dental foraman, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoid, and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. 6. The dental branches arise in the bone, and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nerve may be laid open so as to expose these minute branches. c. The incisor branch is small and continues the direction of the nerve onwards to the middle line, furnishing offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, below w^hich it lies. d. The menial or lahial hranch (fig. 10, '^) is in size the continua- tion of the dental trunk, and issues on the face beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth. It gives one offset downwards to the integument of the chin ; but the greater part of the nerve is directed upwards beneath the depressor labii inferioris, to be distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. Its branches communicate with the supramaxillary portion of the facial nerve. The inferior dental artery, after entering the lower jaw, has a similar course and distribution to the nerve. Thus it supplies off- sets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a mental branch. The incisor hranch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, where it ends in the bone ; it furnishes twigs to the canine and incisor teeth. The mental hranch, issuing by the mental foramen, ramifies in the structures covering the lower jaw, and anastomoses with the branches of the facial artery. The LINGUAL or gustatory nerve (^) is concealed at first, like the otheri?, by the external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined forwards with a small artery over the internal pterygoid, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region (p. 97). In its course beneath the jaw the nerve does not give off any branches, but the following conmiunicating nerve is received by it.SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. 93 The chorda tymjjani is a brancli of tlie facial nerve, and leaves Chorda tlie tympanum by a special aperture close to the inner end of the lo/J^g^^'" Glaserian fissure. Appearing from beneath the upper attachment lingual, of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, this small nerve joins the lingual at an acute angle, about three-quarters of an inch below the skull. At the point of meeting a communication takes place with the lingual, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is l^^l^^ merely conducted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and its course across the tympanum, are described in Section XIV. The nerve to the internal 'pterygoid can now be seen as it passes beneath the hinder border to the inner surface of its muscle, but it pterygoid will be more fully shown in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section XIY). Section YII. SUBMAXILLARY REGIOX. The submaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and Parts in it. the hyoid bone. In it are contained some of the muscles of the hyoid bone and tongue, the vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. In this dissection the position of the neck is the same Position of as for the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary Dissection, gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it be taken away. The SUBMAXILLARY GLAND (fig. 17, ") Hes bclow the jaw in the Submaxil- Itirv rIcIiicI ' anterior part ©f the space limited by that bone and the digastric ^^j^^^j^^j^j^ ' muscle. Somewhat oval in shape, it rests on the mylo-hyoid, and sends a deep process round the posterior or free border of that ^^^^^j^j^j,, muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric ; and behind is the stylo-maxillary ligament separating it from the parotid. The gland is covered only by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia; and the facial artery winds forwards on its deep surface. In structure the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 30) ; and its duct—duct of Wharton—issuing from the deep process, extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth (p. 99). Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection, belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without injury the submaxillary gland from beneath the bone. The MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE is triangular in shape, with the base at Mylo-hyoid the jaw and the truncated apex at the hyoid bone, and rmites along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises from arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw as far ■'^^^'94 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY EEGIOX. Dissection to detach inserted back as the last molar tootli ; and its fibres are inserted partly into bmie^amr^ the front of the l)ody of the hyoid bone, but the greater number end, raphe; with those of the muscle of the opposite side, in a median raphe between that bone and the jaw. around it • ^^^^ cutaneous surface lie the anterior belly of the digastric and the submaxillary gland, the facial artery with its submental ofiset, and the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery. The fibres of the muscle are frequently deficient near the jaw, and allow the genio- hyoid to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The j)arts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be shown after the undermentioned dissection has been made. Action. The mylo-hyoid assists the digastric and genio-hyoid in depressing the lower jaw or elevating the hyoid bone ; but its principal action is to raise the floor of the mouth and press the tongue against the palate, as in the first stage of deglutition. Dissection. To bring into view the muscles beneath the mylo- niyio-hyoid hyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the substance of the tongue, the student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with the superficial part of the submaxillary gland ; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneatli the mylo-hyoid, because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Next he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo- hyoid ; and detaching that muscle from the jaw, should turn it down (as in fig. 25), but without injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. muscies^aw Afterwards the bone is to be sawn through on the right of, but the jaw, close to the muscles attached to the symphysis, the soft parts covering the jaw having been first cut. The loose side of the jaw (for the ramus of the bone has been sawn before) is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened up with a stitch ; but it should not be detached from the mucous membrane of the mouth. toi*oue '^"^^^ apex of the tongue is to be now w^ell jjuUed out of the ° ' mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the septum of the nose, while the left half of the jaw is to be drawn down forcibly with hooks. The scalpel should be then passed from below upwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the and cut purpose of dividing a strong l^and of the mucous membrane of the membrane, mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. Define means of a stitch the hyoid bone may be fastened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct, of the hypoglossal nerve and its branches, which lie on the hyo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small off'set ascending to the stylo-glossus muscle ; also of the lingual nerve nearer the jaw. Between the lingual nerve and the deep part of the submaxillary gland the dissector should seek the small sub- nerves,95 PAETS BENEATH THE MYLO-HYOID. maxillary ganglion -vvitli its offsets ; and he slioulcl endeavour to separate from the trunk of the lingual the small chorda tympani nerve (p. 93), and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary f^ano'lion. At the hinder border of the hyo-glossus clean the lingual vessels, vessels, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, all passing beneath that muscle ; and at the anterior border find the issuing ranine artery, which, with the companion vein and lingual nerve, is to be traced on the under surface of the tongue to the tip. Adhering to the mucous membrane of the mouth is the sublingual ami gland, and this is to be defined, together with the sublingual artery giand!^"^ which supplies it. Parts beneath the mylo-hyoid (fig. 25). The relative position of Parts be- the objects covered by the mylo-hyoid is now apparent:—Extending j^yoili from the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, the fibres of which are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo- glossus. On the hyo-glossus are placed, from below upwards, the above hyoid hypoglossal nerve, Wharton'si duct, and the lingual nerve, the latter crossing the duct ; and near the anterior border of the muscle the two nerves are imited by branches. Beneath the same muscle lie, from below upwards, the lingual artery, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Above the hyo-glossus is the mucous membrane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior constrictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the chin and the hyoid bone, close to the middle line, is jlyQ ^f^sus situate the genio-hyoid muscle ; above this is a larger fan-shaped muscle, the genio-giossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the anterior border of the. hyo-glossus. On the under surface of the tongue, near the margin, lies the lingual nerve ; and the hypoglossal nerve enters the fibres of the genio-glossus. The HYO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (fig. 24, ^) is thin and somewhat square Hyo- in shape. It arises from the lateral part of the body, and from all 8^°^^"^ • the great cornu, of the hyoid bone. The fibres ascend and enter the side of the tongue ; they will be seen afterwards to mingle with those of the palato- and stylo-glossus.* The parts lying on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus, as well as parts in those passing beneath its anterior and posterior borders, have already been enumerated ; and under the muscle there are also portions of the genio-glossus and middle constrictor. Action. This muscle depresses the tongue, drawing down the use. sides and giving a rounded form to the dorsum ; and if the tongue * A distinct muscular slip (chondro-glossus), arising from the small cornu of the hyoid bone, is sometimes regarded as a part of the hyo-glossus. For farther details respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles^ reference is made to the dissection of the tongue, Section XV.DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLAEY EEGIOX. glossus. 4. Genio-hyoid. 5. Stylo-pharyngeus. is protruded from the mouth, the fibres will draw it backwards into that cavity. The STYLO-GLOSSUS (fig. 24, ^) is a slender muscle, which arises from the styloid process near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is directed downwards and forwards to the hinder part of the lateral margin of the tongue. Here it gives some fibres to the dorsum, but the greater part of the muscle turns to the under surface, and is continued forwards to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the lingual nerve. Action. Both muscles will raise the back of the tongue against the roof of the mouth ; and if the tongue is protruded they will restore it to the canity. One muscle can direct the point of the tongue towards its own side of the mouth. The GENio-HYoiD MUSCLE (fig. 24, arises from the lower of the [f''^—^ The GENio-GLossus (genio- hyo-glossus, fig. 23,^) is a thick, fan-shaped muscle, hav- ing its apex at the jaw, and its base at the tongue. It takes origin from the upper of the mental spines behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior passing backwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate ones to the tongue from base to point. Lying close to the median plane, the inner surface of the muscle is in contact with its fellow. Its lower border corresponds to the genio-hyoid, and the upper to the frsenum linguae. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the hinder fibres. Action. By the simultaneous action of the whole muscle the Fig. 24.* mental spines on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the front of the body of the hyoid bone. The lower surface of this muscle is covered by the mylo- hyoid, and the upper is in contact with the genio-glos- sus (^). The inner border touches the muscle of the op- posite side, and the two are often united. Action. The genio-hyoid either depresses the lower jaw or raises the hyoid bone, according to which end is fixed by other muscles. * Mviscles of the tongue. 1. Hyo-glossus. 2. Stylo-glcssus, 3. Genio-97 LINGUAL VESSELS AND NERVE. t(3ngue is depressed, and hollowed along the middle. The hinder fibres acting alone raise the hyoid bone and protrude the tongue ; while the anterior retract the tip of the tongue. The LINGUAL ARTERY (fig. 19, /) arises from the external carotid Lingual opposite the great cormi of the hyoid bone. At first it is directed '"'^^^'^ forwards above the hyoid bone, and then upwards beneath the hyo- theTongue glossus to the under part of the tongue (fig. 25) ; it ends at the Jj^^^*^''^^^^ anterior border of that muscle in the sul:)lingual and ranine Ijranches. glossus. Before it reaches the hyo-glossus, the artery forms a small loop, with its convexity upwards, which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve ; and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles also lie over the \'essel, but are separated from it by the hyo-glossus. The trunk rests on the middle constrictor and genio-glossus muscles. Its I tranches are :— a. A small hyoid branch is distributed to the nuiscles at the its in-anches upper border of the hyoid bone ; it anastomoses with its fellow of the opjjosite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid boueT^^ artery of the same side. h. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo-to back of glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of the tongue and tongue ; tlie tonsil. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublincjual branch springs from the final division of the to the sub- artery at tlic edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards to giand\^ the gland of the same name. Some offsets supply the gums and the contiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch (fig. 25,^) is the terminal part of the to the lingual artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the o?tolml?. genio-glossus to the tip of the tongue where it ends. Muscular offsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue of the same side. This artery is very tortuous, and is embedded in the muscular fibres of the tongue. The lingual ajtery is accompanied l)y two small vcncc comites, but Lingual tlie largest vein of the tongue is the ranine, which lies external to the artery of the same name, and, after being joined by suhlingucd brandies, passes backwards over tbe hyo-glossus muscle with the hypoglossal nerve. These veins end in the internal jugular. The LINGUAL NERVE (fig. 25, ^) has l)een followed in the pterygo- Lingual maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the loAver jaw "'^^^'^ and the internal pterygoid muscle (p, 92). In the submaxillary region the nerve is inclined inwards to the side of the tongue, across along side the mucous membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, it is directed forwards below the Whartonian duct, gives and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are fur- nished to the surronnding parts, thus :— Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, to the near the gland of that name. ganghon, Farther forwards one or more branches descend on the hyo- twelfth • 1 • p 1 1 IT nerve, glossus to unite in a loop with twigs ot the hypoglossal nerve. H98 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. to mucous Otlier filainents are supplied to the mucous ineiiil3raiie of tlie mem ranc, ^j^^ gums, and the sublingual gland. to the Lastly, the branches for the tongue ascend througli the muscuLir papiilse. substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papilla\ Submaxii- The SUBMAXILLARY GANGLION (fig. 25, ") resembles the other ^a-ifo-lion ganglia connected with the three trunks of the fifth nerve, and communicates with motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves. It lies on the hyo-glossus muscle immediately alcove the deep part of the Fig. 25.* has roots froui the fifth, facial and sympa- thetic ; gives hrauches to gland. Chorda tyjnpani suljmaxillaiy gland, and is attached by two or three filaments to the lingual nerve. Connection icith vrrves—roots. The fibres of the sensory root are derived from the lingual, and of the motor root from the chorda tymjjani nerves, both joining the upper part of the ganglion. Tlie sympathetic root conies from the plexus on the facial artery. Branches. From the lower part of the ganglion five or six small ofi'sets descend to the submaxillary gland ; and from the fore part other filaments are given to the mucous membrane of the mouth jmd Wharton's duct. Chorda tymPx^ni. Joining the lingual nerve close below its origin (p. 93), the chorda tympani accompanies that trunk, but can be easily separated from it nearly as far as the tongue. Beyond Deep view of the submaxillary region (Illustrations of Dissections), Muscles: A, Genio-glossus. b. Grenio-hyoid. c. Hyo-glossus. P. Stylo-glossus. F. Mylo-hyoid reflected. H. Stylo-hyoid. j. Posterior belly of digastric. Nerves: 1. Lingual. 2. Submaxillary ganglion. 4. Grlosso-pharyngeal. 6. Hypoglossal. 7. Upper laryngeal. The lingual artery is seen dividing, close to the hypoglossal nerve : the ranine offset is marked with 9. 3. Wharton's duct.HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 99 that point its fibres are mixed with those of the lingual nerve. Near the suljmaxillary gland an offset is sent to the submaxillarv ganglion. The HYPOOLOSSAL or twelfth nerve in the snhniaxillaiy region Twelfth is directed forwards across the lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle, Jy^i^ ^one*^ and under cover of the mylo-liyoid. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-giossus, spreading out and dividing into numerous branches as it disappears. Branches. While resting on the hyo-glossus. the twelfth nerve its branches furnishes offsets to the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid * i,\\igc\^s muscles, as well as one or two communicating filaments to the of tongue, lingual nerve. Its terminal branches, within the genio-glossus, supply that muscle and the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. The lingual branches are long and slender, and some of them may be ti'aced forwards to the tip of the tongue. The (iLOHso-PHARYXGEAL nervc (fig. 25, appearing between the t wo carotid arteries, (iourses forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus, and •ends under the hyo-glossus in branches for the tongue. (See the ])ISSECTION OP THE TONGUE.) The diui of the .^iibinjixillarij gland (fig. 25, •'), Wharton's duct, Wharton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the ^^^^^^ I)order of the mylo-hyoid muscle. Aliout two inches in length, it is directed upwards and forwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and over the lingual nerve, to open on the centre of an eminence by the side opens by of the friionum linguae : the opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle l»e passed along the duct. The deep part of the sub- ]iiaxillary gland extends along the side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland. The SUBLINGUAL GLAND (fig. 25, n) is au almond-shaped l)ody Subungual with its longest diameter, which measures about an inch and a half, <lirected from Ijefore l)ackwards. It lies beneath the fore part of the tongue, between the genio-glossus muscle and the lower jaw, and resting on the mylo-hyoid. Its upper 1 )order is covered by the forms a mucous membrane, which is raised into a fold along the floor of the {|eiow^^°^^ mouth over the gland ; and its inner end touches the one of the tongue, •opposite side behind the symphysis of the jaw. The gland consists of from ten to twenty small masses, each of and is a which has a separate duct. The ducts (ducts of Eivinus) open for structure! the most part on the sublingual mucous fold, but some of them join the submaxillary duct, and one larger tube (duct of Bartholin), which is however frequently wanting, springs from the deeper part of the gland and runs forwards to end either in common with, or close tr) the duct of Wharton. * Tlie brancli to the genio-hyoid muscle is composed of fibres derived from tije cervical nerves. Compare note on p. 78.100 DISSECTION OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Sectiox Yin. RIGHT ORBIT AND SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Directions. Learn right orbit. Open orbit from the outer side. Order of tlie dissection. Superior maxillary nerve. Directions. The student may examine next tlie right orbit, and the remaining trunk, superior maxillary, of the liftli ner\-e. Supposing the right orbit to be untouched, the student may vary the dissection by exposing it from the outer side. Dissection. For this purpose, first detach the eyelids from the outer half of the orbital margin, and with the handle of tlie scalpel separate the periosteum from the corresponding part of the wall of the cavity. Then saw vertically through the centre of the upper margin of the orbit, and continue the cut backwards with a chisel to the sphenoidal fissure. Make a further {;ut, also with a chisel, (from the inside) along the middle fossa of the base of the skull from the sphenoidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and outside the line of the foramen rotunduni and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is next to be sawn transversely in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards the malar bone is to be sawn through into the spheno- maxillary fissure. The piece of the skull, including parts of the frontal, malar, sphenoid, and temporal bones, is now loose, and can be removed with the temj^oral muscle. If the portion of the roof of the orbit which is left should interfere with the vieAV of the contents of the cavity in the later stages of the dissection, let it be taken away with the bone-forceps. The description that has been given of the contents of the left orbit (pp. 40, et seq.) may be used also for the right side. The following will serve as a guide to the steps of the dissection :— On removing the periosteum, the external rectus muscle will l)e at once seen, and its two heads should be defined, with the ner\ es entering the cavity above and between them. Along the upper border of the muscle the lachrymal nerve and. artery are to be followed to the lachrymal gland, and bej-^ond these the levator palpebrse superioris and superior rectus muscles are exjjosed, as well as the frontal and fourth nerves. When these have been studied, the external rectus, with the lachrymal vessels and nerve, are to be divided in the middle, and the parts thrown forwards and back- wards. Then take away the fat from the lenticular ganglion, the nasal, third and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic artery at the back of the orbit, and clean the inferior oblique muscle in front as it arches round the eyeball. To see fully the remaining muscles, the course of the ophthalmic aitery and nasal nerve, and the lower division of the third nerve, it will be necessary to divide the frontal nerve, the levator j)alpebr8e and superior rectus muscles, and the optic nerve. The superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, in its course101 SUPEEIOR MAXILLARY XERVE. to the face, is successively in tlui skull, the spheno-maxillaiy fossa, and tlje infra(n'bital canal. The beginning of the nerve in the cranium has been already demonstrated (p. 18). Dissection. In the spheno-maxillaiy fossa the nerve can be partly Dissection seen l)y the dissection already made for the orbit, and its exposure |[}axmr*'' here will be completed by removing the fat, and cutting away fossa more of the great wing of the splienoid bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring round tlie mirve at its exit from the skull. In the fossa the student seeks tlie following olfsets,—the orbital l)ranch entering Um cavity of the orbit, lu'anches to Meckel's ganglion which Fig. 26.* descend in tlie fossa, and llie posterior dental lu'anch along the back <jf the u])per jaw. To follow (uiwards tlu^ nerve in the floor of tlie orbit, the con-in floor of tents of tlie cfuMty having been taken away, tlie bony canal in which it lies must l)e (Opened to its termination on the face. From the infraorbital canal tlie aiiterior and middle dental branches are to be traced downwards for some distance in the Ixme. The infra- infraorbital orbital vessels are ]»repared with the nerve. vessels. The suPKRioR :\iAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 20) commences at the Upper max- Gasserian ganglion (p. 18), and leaves the craiuum by the foramen ^I'^^^y rotundum. The course of the nerve is almost straight to the face, passes to across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and along the orbital plate of ^^^^ the U2)per maxilla through the infraorljital canal. Issuing from tiiroiiy;ii the canal hy the infraorbital foramen, where it is c(jncealed by the "anar^^*^^ elevator of the upjx^r lip, it ends in infraorbital or facial branches which radiate to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip. * Diagram of the superior maxillary nerve. 2. Trunk of the nerve leaving the Gasserian ganglion. 3. Spbeno-palatine branches. 4. Temporo-malar branch. 5, Posterior dental nerves. 6. Middle and anterior dental. 7 Facial bi-ancl)c«.DISSECTION OF THE SUPEIilOR MAXILLAKY NERVE. 102 Its branches are—to orbit; to the nose and palate; to the hinder teeth and cheek: to for( teeth: to lower eyelid; to side of nose ; and to upper lip, joinnij facial. Infraorbital artery ends in face: branches to orbit, and one to anterior teeth. Infraorbital vein. Branches.—a. The orbital or temjjoro-incdar branch (^) lias already been described (p. 50). Its two divisions liave been destroyed on the right side in opening the orbit. b. The si^heno-jpalatint branches (^) descend from the nerve in the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate ; they are connected with Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it (Section XIV.). c. The 'posterior dental branch (") leaves the nerve near the npper jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining meniljrane of the antrum ; near the teeth it joins the middle dental branch. Before enteiing the canal it furnishes one or more oflsets to the gum and the mucous mem- brane of the cheek. d. and e. The 'iitiddle and anterior dental hranche>< arise together or separately from the trunk in the floor of the orbit, and descend in special canals in the wall of the antrum to end in branches to the teeth, after forming loops of conmiunication with one another, and with the i)Osterior dental nerve. From the middle branch filaments are given to the bicuspid teeth ; and from the anterior to the canine and incisors, as well as a twig or two to the inferior meatus of the nose. /. The ixdpebral branches are usually two small twigs whicli turn upwards round the mai'gin oi the infraoihital foramen to reach the lower lid. (/. The kderal nasal branches are directed inwards, and supply the skin of the side of the nose. h. The labial branches^ tliree or the others, and descend to the lip between the orbit and the mouth, as well as the mucous membram; of the upper lip. Their ramifications are crossed by, and com- municate mth the infraorbital branches of the facial ner^'e, the whole forming the infraorbital -plexus (p. 38). The INFRAORBITAL ARTERY is a branch of the internal maxillary (p. 89). Taking the course of the nerve through the infraor1)ital canal, the vessel ai^pears on the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and it ends in branches which are distributed, like those of the nerve, between the eye and mouth. On the face its branches anastomose with off'sets of the facial and buccal arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery furnishes small twigs to the orbit, and a larger anterior dental branch which runs with the nerve of the same name to the incisor and canine teeth ; the dental branch also gives offsets to the antrum, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery. The vein accompanying the artery communicates in front with the facial vein, and terminates behind in the alveolar plexus (p. 90). four in number, are larger than supplying the skin of the face103 STYLO-PHAEYNGEUS MUSCLE. Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND SERVES OF THE NECK. J11 tliis Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the Parts in this iulerual carotid and asceiiding pharyngeal arteries, and some cranial and sympathetic nerves. Fuaifuni. Tlie position of the part is to remain as before, viz., the Position of neck is to he fixed over a small block. Jhfi.icd'iov. To see the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the posterior Dissection belly of tlie digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscle should be de- ^lil^yngeus; tached from llieir origin and thrown down. Tlie trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hypoglossal nerve crosses it, and by dividing those- Itranches of it that have been already examined : any A'eiiis accom- panying the arteries are to be taken away. "While cleaning the surface ol' the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-])haryngeal nerve and its branches, and the stylo-hyoid ligament are also to )Ki ve. ° ' be prepared. The side of the jaw is to be draw n forwards on the lace. The STYLO-THARYNGEUS MUSCLE (fig. 24, '') rescmbles the Other ^tyio- stvloid muscles in its elongated form. The fibres arise from ^j^^, • (• 1 1-1 1 • -1 11 11 origin; root ol tlie styloid process on the inner sitk', aiul descend between the superior and middle constrictors to be /^f-bv/Yrf/})artly into the in.soitinn; wall ol" the pharynx, and partly into the upper and hinder borders of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies bidow the stylo-glossus, and l)etween the carotid is i>et\yc( ii arteries ; and the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve turns over the lower end arto ic>; of its tleshy belly. Acf ioii. It raises the pharynx, and tends to dilate the jiart of the use. cavity abo^'e the hyoid bone. From its attachment to the thyroid cartilage it will assist in elevating and drawing backwards the larynx. The sfiiJo-hyoid liyament is a slender fibrous band, which extends ^^^^^j^j'^^J^^^'*^^ from tin- ti}) of the styloid process to the small cornu of the hyoid °' bone. Its position is between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus Jjf^.Jj^^iJ^^ muscles, and over the internal carotid artery ; while the lower end in-, is placed beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To its posterior border, the middle constrictor muscle is attached below. It is frequentl}' cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or occasionally in all its extent. Sometimes a slip of fleshy fibres is continued along it. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Supplies the deep parts of the J^^*^J.!JJ'^ head, viz., the brain, the contents of the orbit, and the nose ; and artery, takes a circuitous course through and along the base of the skull before it ends in branches to the cerebrum. The arterial trunk in the cranium, and its offset to the orbit, have Part already been already learnt; but the portions in the neck and the temporal104 -DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Dissection of carotid i the neck ; and cranial nerves: in the leniporai bone. hone remain to be dissected. The terminal branches of tlie carotid are examined with the brain. Dissection. For the display of the cervical part of the artery (fig. 27) there is now but little dissection required. By detaching the styloid j^i'ocess at the root, and throwing it forwards with its jnnscles, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals them ; and this is to be taken away carefull}^, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. Nerves on it. Tympanum obtained. Internal carotid enters tlic skull. Its course is tirst In the fascia, and directed forwards over the artery, seek the the tlie giosso-pharyngeal nerve, and its branches near the skull, and small pharyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal offset, crossing beneath the carotid. Between the ^ ein and artery, close to the sknll, will be found the vagus, hy})()giossal, and sympathetic nei'\'es: and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the vessels the loop of the first and second cervical nerves over the tians^'erse prc^cess of the atlas is to be defined ; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the s^'nipatlictic beneath the artery, and to the vagus and hypoglossal ner^'es. Ascending to tlie cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending j^haryn- geal artery will l)e met "s\ ith. To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to folhjw the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut along the side of the sknll in the following manner:—the saw being placed behiuil the mastoid ^irocess, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the wing of the sphenoid bon-,' (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrimient be directed through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone Ibrceps. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the supeiior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it ; and in a fresh part two small filaments may be recognised Avith care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the 2)osterior part of the canal ; the other from the Vidian nei ve, at the front of the canal. On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may oljtain a view of the outer part of the tympanum with its membrane and chain of bones, and the chorda tympani nerve. The internal carotid artery (fig. 27, d) springs from the bifurcation of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided into three portions—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third in the cranium.105 IXTERXAL CAKOTID ARTERY. (Jervlctd ixni. In tlie iu;ck the artery a^^cends almost vertically tlirougii from its origin to tlie carotid canal, and is in contact with the "^^'^'^ jiharynx on tlie inner side. The line of the common carotid artery would mark its })()sition in the neck. Its depth from the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the digastric muscle may be taken as the index in this difference. Thus, below that Uss a^-v^ muscle, the internal carotid is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid and * Deep vessels and nerves of the neck (Illustrations of Dissections). Arteries: a. Subclavian, h. Common carotid, c. External carotiu, cut. d. Internal carotid. /. Inferior palatine branch of facial. g. Ascending pharyngeal. Nerves: 1. Glosso-pharyngeal. 2. Spinal accessory. 3. Pneumo-gastric or vagus. 4. Hypoglossal. 5. Pharyngeal branch of vagus. 6. Upper laryngeal branch of vagus. 7. External laryngeal branch of the last. 8. Thyro-hyoid branch of hypoglossal. 9. Descendens noni, cut. 10. Phrenic. 11. Brachial x^lexus. Recurrent of the vagus winds round the sub- clavian artery, a. • .DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NEllYES OF NECK. covered by the common integuments, fascia, and platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though fartlier back. But above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. While in the neck, the internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which separates it from the vertebrse. Vein: The internal jugular vein accompanies the artery, being contained in a sheath with it, and placed on the outer side. Small vessels. Below the digastric muscle the occipital artery is directed back over the carotid ; and the oflset from it to the sterno- mastoid may run down on the carotid trunk. Above the digastric the posterior auricular artery crosses the internal carotid. Nerves. The pneumo-gastric is contained in the sheath between the artery and vein, being parallel to thenj ; and the sympathetic, also running longitudinally, lies behind the sheath of the vessels. Crossing the artery superficially, from below up, are the hypoglossal, which sends its descending branch downwards along the vessel ; next the pharyngeal branch of the vagus ; and lastly the glosso-pharyngeal. Directed inwards beneath the carotid is the superior laryngeal nerve, furnishing the external laryngeal branch, together with pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic. Close to the skull, the cranial nerves of the neck are interposed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic, and offsets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The cervical portion of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous ; and it usually does not furnish any branch. Fart in the temporal hone. In the carotid canal the winding course of the vessel commences. The artery first ascends in front of the cochlea and tympanum; next it is directed forwards and inwards almost horizontally ; and lastly it turns upwards into the cranium through the foramen laceruni. Branches of the sympathetic nerve and a venous plexus surround the carotid in the bone. While in the canal the artery supplies a small branch to the cavity of the tympanum. The cranial part of the artery is described with the base of the sknll (p. 19). The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN is continuous with the lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the jugular foramen nearly to the first rib. Behind the inner end of the clavicle it joins the subclavian to form the innominate vein (p. 71). As far as the thyroid cartilage the vein accom2:)anies the internal carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid artery ; and it lies on the outer side of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close throughout, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a larger intervening space (p. 76), in which the j)neumo-gastric nerve, with its cardiac branch, is found.107 ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL AETEKY. The size of the vein remains much tJie same from the sskiill to the enlarged hyoid bone, where it is suddenly increased owing to the junction of a number of tributaries corresponding to branches of the external carotid artery. Its lower dilatation and its valve have been before referred to (p. 76). The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz., the inaneheH. inferior petrosal sinus close below the skull, the pharyngeal, lingual, facial and superior thyroid veins near the hyoid bone, and the middle thyroid vein opposite the lower part of the larynx. The ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY (fig. 27, g) Is a long Asceudiug slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the arten"^'^^'^ beginning of that vessel. It runs upwards between the internal carotid artery and the pharynx to near the base of the skull, where ends at it ends in pharyngeal and meningeal branches. Its offsets are "^''^^^" numerous, but small:— a. Prevertebral branches pass to the longus colli and recti antici branches muscles, supplying also the nerves and lymphatic glands of this t'.ijrau region. h. Pharyngeal branches supply the wall of the pharynx, the soft laryngeal, j)alate and the tonsil. The highest of these, one of the terminal branches of the artery, ramifies in the superior constrictor, the Eustachian tube, and the levator and tensor palati muscles : this branch is sometimes large and furnishes the infeiior palatine artery instead of the facial (p. 80). c. The meningeal branches enter the skull through the foramen and menin- laceruni, the jugular foramen and the anterior condylar foramen " ' (p. 16). These arteries are seldom injected. The pharyngeal veins form a plexus which empties itself into the internal jugular trunk. Dissection of the cranial nerves in the neck. By the time this stage Directions of the dissection has been arrived at, the condition of the pai-ts will small " not permit the- tracing of the very minute filaments of the cranial [j^ie'Jf^-ves^ nerves in the jugular foramen, and all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk are therefore to be omitted for the present. Alter\rards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the bone has been softened by acid and the nerves hardened in spirit, the exami- nation of the branches now passed over may be made. * In the jugular foramen. Supposing the dissection of the internal Dissection carotid to be carried out as it is described at page 104, let the jugular student cut across with care the jugular vein near the skidl. Let f<Ji'aiiicn. him then remove bit by bit with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone which bounds exter- nally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the osseous crest between that foramen and the carotid canal. Between the bone and the coat of the jugular vejn, the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve is to be found ; it is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. Trace then the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastric nerves ^^}^^^' through the aperture, by opening the fibrous sheath around them, accessory Two parts, large and small, of the sj^inal accessory nerve should pjjguj,^^), gastrie. ;DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. 108 afterwards glosso- pharyngeal and its branches. Dissection of the nerves in tlie neck : of spinal accessory of glosso- pharyngeal of vagus: pharyngeal l)lexus, cardiac )llsets, and recin-- rent; of liypd glossal of sympa- thetic in part. be defined ; the latter is to be shown joining a ganglion on the vagus, and applying itself to the trunk of that nerve, A commu- nication between the two pieces of the spinal accessory is to be found. On the pneumo-gastric is a small well-marked ganglion, fi-om which the auricular branch before referred to takes (jrigin ; and li'om the ganglion filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Next follow the giosso-pharyngeal nerve through the fore part of the foramen, and take away any bone tiiat overhangs it. This nerve presents two ganglia as it j^asses from the skull (hg. 28) ; one (jugular), wliich is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube (^f membrane containing it; tlie other, much larger (petrosal), is situate at the hinder border of the petrous jjortion of the temporal Ijone. Fr(;m the lower one, seek the small nerve ot Jacobson, wliich enters an aperture in the crest of bone Ijetween the jugular foramen and the carotid canal, and another filament of communication with the ganglion of the sympathetic. Sometimes the dissector will be able to find a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricular branch of the j^neumo-gastric, and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric ner\ e. Beloiv the for a men of exit from the skull, the cranial nerves have been for the most part denuded l)y the dissection of the internal carotid ; l)ut the intercommunications of the vagus, hypoglossal, sympathetic, and first two spinal nerves, near the skull, are to be traced out more completely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufticientl}' laid bare already ; but its small piece is to be traced to the vagus close to the skull, and onwards along that trunk. The chief part of the giosso-pharyngeal has also been dissected ; but the oflsets on the carotid, and others to the pharynx in fi'ont of the artery are to be defined. On the pneumo-gastric trunk the student will find an enlarge- ment close to the skull (ganglion of the trunk), to which the hypo- glossal nerve is intimately united. From the ganglion proceed two branches (pharyngeal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the parts indicated by their names, especially the first which enters tlie pharyngeal plexus. The task of exposing the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and those of the giosso-pharyngeal and sympa- thetic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contaiiied. Two or more cardiac offsets of the vagus, one at the upper and another at 1;he lower part (jf the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly, the dissector may jirej^are more fully the recurrent branch coursing up beneath the lower end of the common carotid : by removing the fat around it, offsets may be seen passing to the chest and the windpipe. Only the first, or the deep part of the hypoglossal nerve remains to be made ready for learning ; its communications with the vagus, sympathetic, and the spinal nerves are to be shown. . A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on (x). 114);109 GLOSSO-PIIARYNGEAL NERVE. hnt its large ganglion near tlie skull (upper cervical) should be cleaned, and the branches from it to the pharyngeal plexus should be pursued beneath the carotid artery. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves (glosso-]>haryngeal, Ninth, tenth l^neumo-gastric, and spinal accessory) leave the cranium together nervelr'^"*'' by the jugular foramen (p. 19), from Avhich circumstance the}' were formerly grouped together as one nerve—the eighth nerve of Willis. Outside the skull the nerves take different directions to their des- tination ; thus, the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined forwards to the tongue and pharynx ; the spinal accessory backwards to the sterno- mastoid and trapezius muscles ; and the pneurao-gastric nerA'e descends to the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE (fig, 28, ') is the Smallest of the Glosso- three trunks. In the jugular foramen it is placed somewhat in }|erve''''''*^ front of the other two, and lies in a groove in the hinder border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of exit the has t\yo nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, tlie uj^per one being fonuneiK' the jugular, and the lower the petrosal ganglion. The jugular (janglion ('^) is very small, and is situate at the upi)er its upper end of the osseous groove containing the ner\ e. It includes only the outer fibres of the nerve, and is not always to be recognised. The iMrosal ganglion {") is much larger, and encloses all the fibrils and lower of the nerve. Ovalish in form, it is placed in a hollow in the 8'"iisi'<'ii- posterior border of the temporal bone ; and from it si)ring the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen, it comes forwards in the neck- between the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 27, ^), and descends o^ er the artery until it reaches the hinder border of the stylo-pharvnfTeus muscle. Then curving forwards, it becomes almost f'"ii>;«es to ' . T . 11 1 . 11 tlie tongue, transverse m direction, crosses the stylo-pliaryngeus, ami finally passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, where it ends in liranches to the tongue. The hranches oi the olosso-pharvngeal mav be cLissed into those Branches to join connecting it with other nerves at the base of the skull, and those distributed in the neck. The connecting hranches arise from the petrosal ganglion ; and in ^y.'J^^' others, this set is the tympanic nerve. * A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck to ^[^'^j^l^^^J^^.*'^ join the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is an oftset from the ' ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, and another to the upper ganglion of this nerve. ^ The tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson ; fig. 28, ") enters the feinaiand aperture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid thetlc! foramina, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum: its distribution is given with the anatomy of the middle ear (Chapter XL). Brandies for distribution. In the neck the l)ranches are furnished Distributed chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. a. Pharyngeal hranches. Two or three branches, arising from the pharynx, glosso-pharyngeal nerve as it lies over the carotid artery, descendDISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. 110 to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and take part in the formation of the pharyngeal plexus ; and one or two smaller twigs penetrate the superior constrictor muscle. stylo- h. A muscular hrancli enters the stylo-pharyngeus while the nerve pharyngens, contact with the muscle. tonsil, c. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—circulus tonsillaris. and tongue. d. Lingual hranclies. The terminal branches of the nerve supply the hinder part of the tongue, in connection with which they are described (Section XV). Vagus non e The PXEUMO-GASTRic or VAGUS NERVE (fig. 28, ^) is the largest of the cranial nerves in the neck, and escapes through the jugular foramen in the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal accessory. In the foramen it has a distinct gan- glion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal acces- sory nerve is connected. When the nerve has left the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a ganglion nearl}- an inch long (gang, of the trunk). This gan- glion lies iDetween the internal ca- rotid artery and jugular vein, and communicates with several nerves. To reach the thorax, the vagus de- scends almost vertically (fig. 27,'') between the internal jugular vein and the internal and common ca- rotid arteries ; and it enters that cavity, on the right side, by cross- ing over the subclavian arter}'-, but beneath the innominate vein. Itsui)i,..r ^ The (janglion of the root (jugular ganglion; fig. 28,^) is of a gangiioji, gi^eyish colour, and from it small branches in the jugular foramen arise. and lower The ganglion of the trunk {^) is cylindrical in form, reddish in ganglion. eolour, and nearly an inch in length ; it communicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympathetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve enter the ganglion, but those derived * Diagram of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nevvcs. A. Pons. B. Medulli oblongata. 1. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 2. Vagus. 3, 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. 5. Petrosal ganglion. 6. Tympanic nerve. 7. Auri- cular brancli. 8. Root-ganglion, and 9. Trunk-ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrous and upper ganglion of the vagus. 11. Small part of spinal accessory. 12. Large part of spinal accessory. 13. Pharyngeal, and H, superior laryngeal brancli of vagus.PXEUMO-GASTRIC NEEVE. Ill from the spinal accessory nerve (") pass over the ganglion without being connected to it. The hrmiches of the pneumo-gastric nerve arising in the neck Brandios may be divided into those uniting it with other nerves, and those distributed to the several organs. * Connecting hrmirJifs (tig. 28) arise from the ganglia of the root to unite T . T n j.\ ' with otlioi'.s; and trunk ot the vagus. From the (jeivglion of tlte root. The (luricular hranch (Arnold's auriculav nerve, ') is tlie chief offset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter ' an aperture near the root of the styloid process : it traverses the substance of tlie temporal bone, and is distributed to the outer ear. Its farther course will be described with the anatomy of the ear. One or two short tilaments unite this ganglion with the small ^vith eleventh part of the spinal accessory nerve ; and a brancli from the upper sympa- ' ganglion of tlie sympathetic enters it. Occasionally there is an offset (^") to join the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. From the ganglion of the trunk. Communicating filaments pass with between it and the hypoglossal nerve. Other l)ranches connect it to syiuj-a-' the upper ganglion of the sym])athctic and the loop of the first two ^/j'^^'j^^'.ji,.,! cervical nerves. ner\-e.s. Branches for dixtrilititioii. The cervical branches arise from the Branches lower ganglion and the trunk of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. a. The pharyngeal hronch (lig. 28,^'') springs from the upper To pharynx part of the ganglion of the ti'unk, and is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery to the side of the pharynx, being joined in its course by the descending pharyngeal branches of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. On the surface of the middle constrictor, the ramifications of the united nerves communicate freely together, and through with the pharyngeal bran(^hes of the sympathetic, to form the jJexu"^^''^^ pharyugeal pjlcxus. The od'sets of the plexus enter the wall of the pharynx and supply the constrictor muscles, the palato-glossus, palato-pharyngeus, levator ■ palati and azygos uvulae muscles, and the mucous membrane between the mouth and the larynx. h. The superior laryngeal verre (fig. 28, ^'*) is much larger than upper the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion of lan'mx the trunk. It runs obli(j^uely downwards and forwards, passing on the inner side of the internal and external carotids (fig. 27,''), to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. Here it p(.'rforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and divides into branches for the sui)ply of the mucous memlu'ane of the larynx (Section XVI). While beneath the internal carotid artery it furnishes the following offset:— The external laryngeal hranch (fig. 27,') descends on the inferior its external constrictor muscle to the side of the larynx, and then beneath the sterno-thyroid to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it ends. Near its origin it gives off a filament to join the upper cardiac branch of the sympathetic ; and lower do-wn it supplies twigs to the inferior constrictor.DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. c. Cardiac hraiicJics. One or two small cardiac nerves spring from the pneiimo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac l)ranches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on each side, there is a larger cardiac nerve which descends into the thorax:—the right one joins the deep nerves to the heart from the sympathetic ; and the left terminates in the superficial cardiac plexns. d. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve leaves the pneumo- gastric trunk on the right side opposite the subclavian artery, and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the neck to the larynx, ascending beneath the common carotid artery, along the groove between the trachea and the oesophagus, and crossing either in front or behind the inferior thyroid artery. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, Avhere it will be afterwards traced. The following branches arise from it:— Some cardiac branches leave the nerve as it turns round the sub- clavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. Tracheal and oesophageal branches spring from it as it ascends in the neck ; and near the larynx some filaments are furnished to the inferior constrictor muscle On the left side the recurrent nerve arises in the tliorax, opposite the arch of the aorta ; in tlie neck it lies between the trachea and oesophagus, as on the right side, and is more freipiently behind the inferior thyroid artery. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE courscs through the jugular fora- men with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any ganglion. The nerve is composed of two parts, viz., a smaller one, accessory to the vagus, and a larger, spinal part, which have a different origin and distribution. The part accessory to tlie vagus (bulbar part ; fig. 28,") arises from the medulla oblongata, and ends l)y joining the pneumo-gastric outside the skull. In the foramen of exit it lies close to the vagus, and is connected to the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Below the foramen it passes over the lower ganglion of the vagus, and blends with the trunk beyond that ganglion. It gives distinct offsets to join the pharyngeal and upper laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric ; and other fibres are continued into the cardiac and inferior laryngeal branches. The spv/ial part (fig. 28,^"), which takes its origin from the spinal cord, is much larger, and is connected with the smaller piece while passing through the jugular foramen. Beyond the foramen the nerve (fig. 27, ^) takes a backward course through the sterno-mastoid, and across the side of the neck to end in the trapezius : at first it is concealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vessel. The connections of the nerve beyond the sterno- mastoid have been already examined (p. 57). The nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. The HYroGLOSSAL NERVE, issuiiig from the cranium by theHYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. H3 anterior condylar foramen, is at first deeply placed between tlie internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (fig. 27/). It next comes forwards between the vein and artery, turning round the outer side of the vagus to which it is closely united. The nerve now descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric muscle in the anterior triangular space (p. 77) ; from this spot it is directed forwards to the tongue and its muscles (p. 99). Connecting hranches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united to iiranches the lower ganglion of the vagus by filaments crossing between the "vagus* two nerves as they are in contact, A little lower down the nerve is joined by ofi'sets from the sym- sympa- pathetic and the loop of the first two spinal nerves. spinal ^^^^ The branches for distribution have been met with in the foregoing nerves, and dissections. Thus, in the neck its descending branch supplies, in miiscies. common with the spinal nerves, the depressors of the hyoid bone. In the submaxillary region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio-hyoid) of the hyoid bone, to the extrinsic muscles of the tongue except the palato-glossus, and to all the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. Dissection. The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, between the Dissection transverse process of the atlas and the base of the skull, is now to {jfteraiiT be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms a loop in front of the atlas, is to be found. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS (fig. 27) is very short, and repre- Rcelua sents a posterior intertransverse muscle. It arises from the fore and ^^^'-'^■'^^'•^ '• upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein ; and in contact parts with the posterior are the obliquus superior and the vertebral artery. ^^'^'^'"^ ' To the inner side lie the anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve and the rectus anticus minor muscle. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in use. inclining the head laterally. . Dissection. For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior Dissection branch of the first cervical nerve, divide the rectus lateralis muscle, nerve, observing the ofi"set to it ; then cut off the end of the transverse process of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCH OF THE FIRST CERVICAL Or SUB- ^^^^-^V"^^ OCCIPITAL NERVE is rather smaller than the posterior, and arises from suboccipital the common trunk on the neural arch of the atlas. From that spot ^^^""'^ it is directed forwards above the transverse process, and on the inner lies on atlas; side of the vertebral artery, to the interval between the rectus lateralis and rectus anticus minor muscles. Emerging here, it bends down in front of the transverse process of the atlas and forms a forms a loop loop with the second cervical nerve. As the nerve passes forwards Jecind: it supplies the rectus lateralis and anticus minor muscles, and branches connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympa- branches, thetic nerves. I114 DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Sympathetic nerve iu neck has three ganglia. Other ganglia on hfth nerve. Dissection or upper ganglion; of middle; and inferior ganglion. Superior ganglion is near skull, beneath carotid. Connecting branches with spinal nerves: with cranial below skull, Sympathetic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic nerve con- sists, on each side, of a gangliated cord, Avhich lies close to the vertebral column, and is continued into the thorax. On this portion of the nerve are three ganglia—the superior near the skull, the middle towards the lower part of the neck, and the inferior close to the first rib. From the ganglia proceed connecting branches to the spinal and most of the cranial nerves in the neck, and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck, where the sympathetic enters into connection with the three divisions of the fifth nerve. Dissection. To display the branches of the sympathetic nerve requires greater care than is necessary in tracing the white-fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their branches have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be required to bring them into view:—The jugular vein having been cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the carotid artery, and the trunks of the vagus and hypo- glossal nerves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loop between the first and second spinal nerves. The several branches of the ganglion are to be traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharynx, down along the neck, and outwards to other nerves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inferior thyroid artery ; and its branches to spinal nerves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part of the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian artery is to be cut through, internal to the scalenus, and drawn aside, without however destroying the fine nerves that pass over it. It is supposed that the clavicle has been removed. The ganglion is placed close above the neck of the first rib; its branches are large, and are easily followed outwards to the vertebral artery and the spinal nerves, and down- v>'ards to the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the three, and of a reddish-grey colour. Fusiform in shape, it is as long as' the second and third cervical vertebrte, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves ; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the pharynx, and the heart. Connecting branches unite the sympathetic with both the spinal and the cranial nerves. JFith the spinal nerves. The four highest spinal nerves have branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the offset to the fourth nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. TVith the cranial nerves.. Near the skull the lower ganglion of the vagus and the hypoglossal nerve are joined by branches of the sym-SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 115 pathetic. Another offset from the upper part of the ganglion P<1 ascends to the jugular foramen, and divides into two filaments Avhich foramen; join the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the root- ganglion of the vagus. Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves hy and with means of the ascending offset from the ganglion into the carotid Jkuii canal (p. 20). Branches for distribution. The branches of this set are more Branches, numerous than the preceding, and the nerves are generally of larger Bize. The ascending branch, prolonged from the upper part of the To internal ganglion, accompanies the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it divides into two pieces which enter the canal for the carotid, one on each side of that vessel, and are continued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the l)rain, forming secondary which join plexuses on the ophthalmic and cerebral arteries. In the carotid Serves; canal communications are formed with the tympanic nerve (p, 109), and with the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 144) ; with the former near the lower end, and with the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the brain are described at p. 20. Branches for blood-vessels (nervi molles). These nerves surround ^"j.^^-^^""^^ the external carotid trunk, and ramify on its branches so as to form ' ]3lexuses on the arteries with the same names as the vessels : some foi'»iing small ganglia are occasionally found on these slender nerves. By and ganglia; means of tlie plexus on the facial artery the submaxillary ganglion communicates with the sympathetic; and through the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic ganglion obtains a similar communication. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, pharyn- ^ where they join with the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal and pexus. pneumo-gastric nerves in the pharyngeal plexus (j). 111). Cardiac nerves- enter the thorax to join in the j^lexuses of the to cardiac heart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz., superior, P^^^^^^^' middle, and inferior, each taking its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior or superficial cardiac nerve of the right side courses superficial behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and enters the thorax along nerve, the innominate artery. In the neck the nerve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent nerve. In some bodies it ends by joining one of the other cardiac nerves. The MIDDLE CERVICAL Or THYROID GANGLION is of Small size, Middle , . . , 11 1 11 .1.1 ganglion and IS situate beneath the great vessels, usually opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, on or near the inferior Ihj^roid artery. Its branches are the following :— Connectinq branches with the spinal nerves sink between the joined to . . . . spinal borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus, to join the fifth nerves; and sixth cervical nerves. A considerable branch passes between the middle and inferior I 2116 DISSECTIOJ^ OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. loop to lower ganglion; branches of distribution, thyroid branches. middle cardiac nerve. Inferior ganglion on neck of first rib. Branches to spinal nerves and vertebral artery ; and inferior cardiac. Directions. cervical ganglia, forming a looj) (ansa Yieussenii) over tlie front of the snbclavian artery, and supplying it with filaments. Branches for distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid body, together with the middle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid artery^ and end in the thyroid body; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The middle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across the subclavian artery ; its termination in the cardiac plexus will be learnt in the chest. In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size, but irregular in shape, and lies over the interval between the first rib and the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it extends in front of the neck of the rib, and joins the first swelling of the knotted cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those of the other two ganglia. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming the vertebral plexus- around it, and communicating with the cervical nerves. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, issues^ from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions. The student now proceeds to dissect the left side of the neck, but the remains of the right half should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the left half. Section X. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Directions Dissection of anterior triangle of neck; of scaleni, and subcla- vian artery; Directions. In the dissection of the left half of the neck, the differences between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be only made to it. After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the anterior part of it is to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (pp. 58 to 65) is to be used for the anterior triangular space, the sterno-mastoid, and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scaleni muscles and the subclavian vessels are to be learnt. The dissection and description of the muscles on the rightLEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTEEY. 117 side (pp. 66 to 68) will serve for those on tlie left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct arches over the part of the subclavian artery of thoracic internal to the scalenus muscle. If it is uninjected it looks like a vein, rather flattened, and smaller than a crow-quill; and it will be found about half an inch above the clavicle, crossing behind the internal jugular vein, and then bending downwards to end in the jangle between the latter and the subclavian vein. On this side the clavicle is to remain articulated, in order that the joint may afterwards be studied. The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY arises from the arch of the aorta, Left -instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends thence over the art^iy ^''^^ first rib in its course to the upper limb. With this difference on differs much the two sides in the origin of the subclavian—the one vessel subclavian beginning opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, the other in the thorax—it is evident that the length and relations of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus anticus must also differ on the two sides. First part. The part of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus in the first is much longer on the left than the right side. It ascends nearly * vertically from its origin to the level of the first rib, and then bends somewhat abruptly outwards over the toj) of the lung. On leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the oesophagus, and does not rise usually so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between the artery and the surface are structures like those on relations to the right side, viz., the integuments with the platysma and deep parts^'""^^ fascia, and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. To the inner side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, the latter arching forwards above this part of the artery ; and the pleura is in contact with the outer and posterior surfaces. Its relations lower in the chest are described in the dissection of the thorax. Veins. The internal jugular and vertebral veins, as well as the veins; beginning of the innominate, are in front of this part of the artery. Nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve lies parallel to the vessel position of instead of across it as on the right side ; and the phrenic nerve serves, crosses over it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, which course along its inner side to the chest. The second and third parts of the artery, viz., beneath and beyond Rest of the scalenus, are essentially the same as on the right side (p. 69). ^^^^^y- The branches of this artery resemble so closely those of the right Branches trunk, that one description will serve for both (pp. 69 to 71). It tho'sTof^ may be remarked that the superior intercostal of the left side is right vessel, usually internal to, instead of beneath the scalenus as on the right side ; in other words, this branch arises sooner. The THORACIC DUCT (fig. 29, ^) conveys the chyle and lymph of Thoracic the greater part of the body into the venous circulation. Escaping ^^^^ from the thorax on the left side of the oesophagus, the duct ascends comes from in the neck as high as the seventh cervical vertebra. At the spot ti^orax,118 DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. and joins veins: valves; frequent variety; branches. mentioned it issues from beneath the carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, arching outwards and downwards above or over the subclavian artery, and in front of the anterior scalenus muscle and phrenic nerve, to open into the angle of junction of the subclavian with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the veins, are present in the interior of the tube; and a pair guards the opening into the posterior part of the vein. Freq^uently the upper part of the duct is divided; and there may be separate openings into the large veins corresponding with those divi- sions. Large lymphatic vessels from the left side of the head and necky Fig. 29. and from the left upper limb, open into the upper part of the duct, and sometimes separately into the veins (^°). Spinal Examine next the brachial and cervical plexuses, using the de- nerves, scription of the right side (pp. 72 to 74). ori^S^of ^ Common caeotids. On opposite sides these vessels have differ- lef?carotids '^^^^^ ^^^^^ those between the right and left subclavian arteries ; for * the left vessel arises from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer than the right, and contained partly in the chest. The description of the artery between its origin and the top of the sternum will be included in the dissection of the thorax. In the neck Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation, the vessels on both sides so nearly resemble one another that the same description may serve for the two (p. 75). On the left side, however, the jugular * Diagram of the ending of the right lymphatic duct and the thoracic duct in the veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Right, and 3, left innominate vein. 4. Left, and 5, right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7, right subclavian vein. 8. Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic trunk joining the right lymphatic duct, as this is about to end in the subclavian vein. 10. A lymphatic trunk opening separately into the left subclavian vein.119 THYROID BODY. vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are nearer to the carotid than difference on the right side, and are sometimes jjlaced over the artery, in the ne^y^e"^ ^^'^ lower third of the neck. Parts in the upper aperture of the thorax. The relative Parts in the position of the several parts entering or leaving the thorax by the thomx!^^ upper opening may be now observed. In the middle line lie the remains of the thymus gland, and the In middle trachea and oesophagus. In front of the trachea are the lower ends of the sterno-byoid and sterno-thyroid muscles with layers of the cervical fascia, and the inferior thyroid veins ; and behind the gullet and windpipe are the longi colli muscles. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the dome of the pleura and the apex of the lung On each project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and the trachea and oesophagus, are placed the vessels and nerves passing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both sides partly the lie the innominate vein, the phrenic nerve, and the internal mam- both sides, mary artery ; but the vessels and nerves next met with are different and partly on the two sides :—On the right side come the innominate artery, different, witli the vagus, the cardiac nerves, and the right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first dorsal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior inter- costal artery. The THYROID BODY (fig. 17,^^) is a soft reddish mass, which Thyroid embraces the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lateral , ^ OOTlSlStS Ol lobes, united by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe, two lobes The connecting piece from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed over the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end upwards, and -is about two inches in length. It is interposed Relations between the windpipe with the larynx and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies ; but usually extent of it reaches as high as the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper border of the thyroid body, a conical process. Middle lobe known as the pyramid, often ascends towards the hyoid bone, to Py^^"^^" • which it is attached by a fibrous band. The pyramid generally springs from the inner part of one of the lateral lobes, seldom from the isthmus ; and it is sometimes connected to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator glandidm thijroidem. Detached portions of ^^^^^^^^'^ glandular substance, or accessory thyroid glands, are not unfrequently found between the main body and the hyoid bone. The thyroid body is of a brownish red or purple hue, is granular in texture, and weighs from one to two ounces. It is larger in the J^e"^*^"'^ woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid yellowish fluid escapes. It has not any excretory tube or duct. No duct.120 DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Arteries : superior, inferior, and som'^- times lowest thyroid- Veins. Inferior, form a plexus on trachea. Trachea lies in neck and thorax: form. Cervical ■part is amongst muscles and vesseh CEsophagus occupies neck and thorax: length. Position in neck, and rela- tions. Muscles and vessels in anterior triangle. The arteries of the thyroid body are two on each side—^^superior and inferior thyroid. The branches of the external carotids (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect: while those from the subclavians /(inferior thyroid) pierce the deep surface of the mass. Occasionally there is a third branch (^art. thyroidea ima) which arises from the innominate artery in the thorax, and ascending in front of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The veins are large and numerous; they are superior, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two enter the internal jugular vein (p. 76). The inferior thyroid veins issue from the lower part of the thyroid body, and descend on the trachea, forming a plexus on that tube' beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles; they enter finally the innominate veins. The TRACHEA, or windpipe, is continued from the larynx to the thorax, and ends by dividing into, two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends com- monly from the lower part of the sixth cervical to the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a lialf in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front and sides of the trachea are rounded in consequence of the existence of firm cartilaginous bands in those parts of the wall; but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the wall is flat and, mem- branous. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has the following relative position to the surroimding parts. Covering it in front are the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia : beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins ; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oisophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described in Section XVII. The CESOPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences, like the trachea, oj)posite the lower part of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ends ojDposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax. Its length is about nine inches. In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax where it projects to the left side of the airtube, and touches the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus are the longi colli muscles. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greater, in consecpence of the projection of the oesophagus towards that side. The structure of the oesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Directions. The dissector may learn next the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles, with the hypoglossal nerve (p. 76). Afterwards he may take the trunk , of the external carotid, with the following branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior amicular, and superficial temporal (pp. 78 to 81).SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 121 Tlie dissector is not to examine now the pterygo-maxillary or sub- maxillary regions on the left side, because such a proceeding would interfere with the subsequent dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, oji this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection. For the display of the two lower ganglia of the sym- ^^^g^^^^^*^^" pathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to take away the thetic, great blood-vessels by cutting them across at the lower part of the neck, and near the digastric muscle. In removing the vessels, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The middle ganglion must be sought in the fat and areolar tissue viz., middle . . and lower near the inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen ganglia, fibove the neck of the first rib, after tlie subclavian artery has been divided. The upjDer cardiac nerve may be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The up]Der end of the sternum wdth the attached clavicle is to be ^g^no*.^ taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; clavicular mid the piece of bone is to be put aside for the subsequent exami- nation of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The middle and inferior cervical gmiglia of the sympathetic nerve are so similar to the corresponding ganglia of the right side, that the nerve, same description will suffice (p. 115). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left as on the right ^g^ygg^. side, viz.j sujjerior, middle, and inferior, but they present some diff'erences. The superior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the neck on both upper sides ; but the left in enteriiig the chest lies between and parallel to the carotid and subclavian arteries, and it ends in the superficial cardiac j^lexus. The middle cardiac nerve unites frequently with the next, and middle passes beneath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small branch, which enters lower, the thorax conjoined with the preceding, to end in the deep cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHAEYNX. The pharynx can be examined only when it has been separated Directionss, fiom the back of the head and the spinal column ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner indicated below, so as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The block being removed from beneath the neck, the Detach head is to be j^laced downwards, so that it may stand on the cut from spine, edge of the skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together witht22 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. cut base of skull partly from inside, saw left side of skull, and chisel through the basilar process; then cut soft parts. Preserve piece of spine. Fasten phaiynx. Dissect nerves on left side, then muscles, viz., lower and middle con- strictor, upper con- strictor. the vagus and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib^ and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone, but without injuring, on the left side^ the vessels and nerves near the skull. For the division of the skull turn upwards the inner surface of the base, and make the following incisions in the posterior fossa. On the right side a cut, with the chisel, is to be carried along the line of union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital bone. On the left side another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occipital bone internal to the jugular foramen and the inferior petrosal sinus ; this is to begin rather behind that foramen, and to end opposite the one on the other side. The skull is then to be sawn through vertically on the left side close behind the mastoid process, so that the incision shall meet the posterior end of the cut made with the chisel. Finally, placing the skull again upside down, let the student cut through the basilar process of the occipital bone between the attach- ments of the pharynx and the muscles of the spinal column, the chisel being directed backwards. The base of the skull is now divided into two parts (one having the pharynx attached to it, the other articulating with the spine), which can be readily separated with a scalpel. The spinal column with the piece of the occipital bone connected with it should be set aside, and kept for after examination. Dissection of the pharynx (fig. 30). Let the student take the anterior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately filling the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the CESophagus may be pendent and towards him. On the left side of the pharynx a diff'erent view from that of the right side may be obtained of the cranial and sympathetic nerves near the skull (p. 109), when some loose areolar tissue and the styloid process with its muscles have been removed : if the lower ends of the nerves are fixed with pieces of thread, they can be more easily displayed. Afterwards the dissector may proceed to remove the fascia from the constrictor muscles of the right side (fig. 30), in the direction of the fibres,—these radiating from the side to the middle line. The margins of the inferior and middle constrictor muscles are to be defined. Beneath the lower one, near the larynx, will be found the recurrent nerve with vessels ; between the inferior and middle are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels; and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle disappears beneath the upper border of the middle constrictor. To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower jaw and the pterygo-maxillary ligament, it will be necessary to cut through the internal pterygoid muscle of the right side. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skull, are two small muscles of the palate (f and h) entering the pharynx : one, tensor palati, lies close inside the internal pterygoid muscle; and the other, levator palati, is deeper and larger.123 MUSCLES OF PHAEYNX. The Pharynx is a portion of the alimentary canal which, gives pharynx: passage to both food and air. It is placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx, and extends from the base of the skull to the lower extent; border of the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, where it ends in the oesophagus, on a level with the lower part of the sixth cervical vertebra. In form it is somewhat conical, with the dilated part form; upwards ; and its length averages about four and a half inches, but length; varies according to the position of the head and the degree of elevation of the larynx. The tube of the pharynx is incomplete in front, where it com- j^jg^'^^-^'g^^'"' municates Avith the cavities above mentioned, but is closed above, behind, and at the sides. Below, it opens into the gullet. On relations; each side of it are placed the trunks of the carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein, and the accompanying cranial and sym- pathetic nerves. Behind it is the spinal column, covered by muscles, viz., longi colli and recti capitis antici. In front, the pharynx is united to the larynx, the hyoid bone, attach- the tongue, and the bony framework of the nasal fossoe, which form ^' the boundaries of its cavity in this direction. Behind and at the and con- sides, it has a special muscular Avail, and is only united by very loose connective tissue to surrounding parts. At the upper end the bag is completed by a fibrous aponeurosis Avhich fixes it to the base of the skull; and the whole is lined by mucous membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of the Aponeurosis pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube ^^^'^^ to the base of the skull, and to complete the posterior boundary. Superiorly it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital, and the petrous part of the temporal bone ; but inferiorly it becomes thin, and is lost in the layer of connective tissue between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane some of the fibres of the auperior constrictor muscle terminate. The Muscles of the pharyngeal wall are arranged in two layers— JJ^"^layer's an outer comprising the three constrictors, the fibres of which run more or less transversely to the direction of the tube, and an inner of longitudinal fibres derived from the stylo-pharyngeus and palato- pharyngeus. Externally the constrictor muscles are covered by a ^g^g^^"*^^^ fascia, which is continued forwards above, beneath the internal pterygoid muscle, to the surface of the buccinator (bucco-pharyngeal fascia, p. 26), The INFERIOR CONSTRICTOR (fig. 30, a), the most superficial, J'yjJytJi^toi. arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, and from the inferior arises from cornu, oblique line, and upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The ^^^^^^ origin is small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres radiate as they pass backwards, to be inserted along the middle line, line; where the muscles of opposite sides join. The outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the sheath of PJ^^^^^j.^ the carotid vessels, and with the muscles covering the spinal column, ^^ith it. The lower border is nearly horizontal, and beneath it the inferior laryngeal nerve and vessels (^) pass ; while the upper border ascends very obliquely and overlaps the middle constrictor. A few of the124 DISSECTION OF -THE PHARYNX. lowest fibres of the inuscle turn downwards, and are continued into the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, coSrictor '^^^ MIDDLE CONSTRICTOR (fig. 30, b) has a similar shape to the arises from Preceding, that is to say, it is narrowed in front and expanded behind, hyoid bone: Its fibres aoise from the great and small cornua of the hyoid bone Fig. 30.* and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. From this origin the fibres radiate, and are blended along the middle line with those of the opposite muscle. * External view of the pharynx {Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Inferior constrictor, b. Middle constrictor, c. Upper constrictor, d. Stylo- pharyngeus. F. Levator palati. h. Tensor palati. i. Buccinator, k. Hyo- glossus. Nerves: 1. Glosso-pharyngeal. 2. Hypoglossal. 3. Superior laryn- geal. 4. External laryngeal. 5. Inferior laryngeal. 6. Lingual.SUPEEIOE CONSTRICTOE MUSCLE. 125 The posterior surface of this muscle is to a great extent concealed relations, by the inferior constrictor. Laterally, it touches the carotid sheath; and its origin is beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, the lingual artery passing between the two. Its upper border is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus ; and in the interval between the origins of the middle and inferior constrictors are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. The SUPERIOR CONSTRICTOR is thinner than the others, and of a Upper quadrilateral form. It has a broad origin from the following parts arS from in succession, commencing above,—the lower end of the internal pterygoid pterygoid plate and the hamular process, the pterygo-maxillary faw^S ligament, the hinder part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, ^^^s^^ • the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the side of the tongue. The fibres pass backwards, and are inserted by joining those of the inserted fellow muscle along the middle line, where a tendinous raphe* is ^ raphi"^" formed between the two for the upper half of their depth. Some of the highest fibres end on the aponeurosis of the pharynx. The parts in contact with this muscle externally are the deep relations; vessels and nerves of the neck at the side, the middle constrictor and prevertebral muscles behind : internally are the aponeurosis of the pharynx and the palato-pharyngeus muscle. The upper border j^g^^^^^Jj forms an arch with the concavity upwards extending from the muscle and pterygoid plate to the basilar process ; and the space between it and the base of the skull is occupied by the aponeurosis of the pharynx, which projects outwards above the muscle, and by the levator palati. Eustachian tube and inferior palatine artery. The attachment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds with the origin of the buccinator muscle (i). Action of constrictors. The muscles of both sides contracting at Use of the same time will diminish the size of the pharynx ; and as the anterior attachments of the lower muscles are nearer together than those of the upper, the tube will be contracted more behind the larynx than near the head. In swallowing, the object is first seized by the lower part of the in swallow- upper constrictor, and then forced on to the oesophagus by the sue- ' cessive action of the middle and inferior constrictors. Since the back of the pharynx is closely applied to the prevertebral muscles, from which it cannot be separated in the natural condition of the parts, the effect of the contraction of these muscles is to draw the tongue, hyoid bone and larynx backwards, as well as somewhat upwards owing to the oblique direction of the greater number of the fibres of the middle and lower constrictors ; and the cavity, when empty, is compressed from before backwards. The upper part of the superior constrictor narrows the space of upper above the mouth, and assists in bringing together the posterior '^^'^^^^^^^^'^ pillars of the soft palate. (See the action of the palato-pharyn- geus.) The pterygo-maxillarij ligament is a thin fibrous band which ^^^f^^^^y passes from the tip of the hamular process to the hinder end of the ligament, mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and gives origin in front to theDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 126 Dissection to show longitudinal muscles. Dissection. Interior of pharynx. Objects to be noted. Seven aper- tures, viz.— Posterior nares. middle fibres of tlie buccinator, behind to the superior constrictor. It is often partly concealed externally by the meeting of the fleshy fibres of the two muscles. Dissection. By dividing the middle and inferior constrictors midway between their origin and insertion, and reflecting the parts forwards and backwards, the longitudinal fibres of the pharyngeal wall will be exposed. The LONGITUDINAL or ELEVATOR MUSCLES of the j)harynx are the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus. The stijlo-]}liaryngeus has already been described, but it may now be followed to its insertion (p. 103). The pcdato-^jharyngeus is only x^artially seen, and will be described with the muscles of the soft palate. Its fibres appear behind those of the stylo-pharyngeus, and descend to the lower part of the pharynx, reaching backwards to the middle line. Dissection (fig. 31). O-pen the pharynx by an incision along the middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks : a better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX (fig; 31) is wider from side to side than from before back, and its greatest width is opposite the hyoid bone ; from that spot it diminishes both upwards and down- wards, but much more raj)idh^ in the latter direction. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures (g) of the nasal fossae, which are separated by the sej^tum nasi. Below them hangs the soft palate, partly closing the opening into the mouth ; and from its free margin a jDrominent fold of the mucous membrane, the posterior pillar of the soft palate (l), is continued downwards and backwards on each side of the pharynx. Immediately behind each nasal aperture is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube ; and from the anterior extremity of the prominence formed by the tube, a ridge descends to join the posterior pillar of the palate. Behind the opening of the Eustachian tube the mucous membrane is prolonged into a deep hollow, the lateral recess of the ijharynx (fig. 35), which corresponds to the projection of the aponeurosis of the jDliarynx seen externally (p. 125). On raising the soft palate, the opening into the mouth—isthmus faucium (h), is exposed, bounded laterally by a mucous fold which descends to the tongue and is named the anterior pillar of the soft palate ; while between the anterior and posterior pillars on each side is a hollow containing the tonsil (k). Next in order, below the mouth, comes the ajDerture of the larynx (n) with the epiglottis projecting above it. Lowest of all is the opening (o) from the pharynx into the oesoijhagus. The apertures into the joharjmx are seven in number, and have the following position and boundaries :— . The p)Osterior openings of the nasal fossm (choanse ; g) are oval in form, and measure about an inch from above down, but only half an inch across. Each is constructed in the dried skull by the sphenoid, with the vomer and palate bones above, and by theEUSTACHIAN TUBE. 127 palate below; by tbe vomer internally, and by the internal ptery- goid plate on tlie outer side. The Eustachian tube (f) is a canal, partly osseous, partly cartila- Eustachian Fig. 31.* ginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear communicates with the external air. If the mucous membrane be removed from the tube on the right cartilagi- side, the cartilaginous part is seen to be nearl}^ an inch long. It is ^^^^ fixed above to a groove between the petrous part of the temporal Internal view of the pharynx (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles of the palate, and named parts : A. Levator palati. b. Tensor palati. c. Sal- pingo-pharyngeus. D. Azygos uvulae. E. Internal pterygoid. F. End of the Eustachian tube. a. Posterior naris. h. Mouth cavity, i. Anterior pillar of fauces, ic. Position of tonsil, l. Posterior pillar of fauces, K. Opening of larynx, o. Opening of oesophagus, p. Uvula, q. Superficial part of palato- pharyngeus. • . ■DISSECTION OF THE : PHARYNX. 128 pharyngeal opening; construc- tion. Fauces. Isthmus of the fauces. Upper opening of larynx. Beginning of oesophagus. Subdivision of cavity of pharynx into nasal, oral, and laryn- geal por- tions. and the sphenoid bones, and ends in front by a wide opening on the inner side of the internal pterygoid plate, on a level with the posterior extremity of the inferior spongy bone of the nose (fig. 35).. Its opening in the pharynx is oval in form, and the inner margin projects forwards, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed of a triangular piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is bent downwards on each side so as to enclose a narrow space. The inner portion is larger than the outer, and increases in breadth from behind forwards. On its outer side the tube is comjDleted by fibrous tissue. The cartilage is covered on its inner side by mucous membrane, and through the tube the mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the soft- palate is called the fauces. It is wider below than above ; and on each side lies the tonsil. The isthmus faucium (h) is the narrowed aperture of communica- tion between the mouth and the pharynx. It is bounded above by the soft palate, below by the tongue, and on the sides by the anterior pillars of the soft palate. Its size varies with the move- ments of these parts, and it can be closed by the meeting of the soft palate and the tongue. The aperture of the larynx (n) is wide in front, where it m bounded by the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the aryte- noid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before back, and are formed by folds (aryteno-epiglottidean) of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Behind it is limited by the cornicula laryngis, and by the arytenoid muscle covered by mucous membrane. During respiration this- aperture is unobstructed, but in the act of deglutition it is closed by the approximation of the lateral folds and the lower part of the epiglottis. The opening into the oesophagiis (o) is the narrowest part of the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the sixth cervical vertebra. At this spot the mucous membrane in the oesophagus- becomes paler than in the pharynx ; and the point at which the pharynx ends is marked externally by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The cavity of the pharynx is divided into three parts, whiclt differ in their function with regard to the transmission of the food and air. The upper or nasal portion is limited below by the soft palate and its posterior pillars ; it gives passage only to air, and i& always open. The middle or oral portion extends downwards to the aperture of the larynx, and is traversed by both food and air ; it is open when breathing through the mouth, but closed when breathing solely through the nose, the aperture of the larynx then corresponding to the interval between the posterior pillars. The third part being behind the larynx is termed laryngeal, and only transmits food ; its walls are naturally in contact, except during the act of deglutition.129 SOFT PALATE. The SOFT PALATE (veluiTi pendulum palati; q) is a moveable Soft palate structure between the mouth and the pharynx, which can either n!outh^: close the opening of the mouth, or cut off the communication with the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual surfaces; position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) its anterior surface is concave, and is continuous with the roof of the mouth ; while the opposite surface is convex and turned to the j)harynx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard borders; palate ; and on each side it joins the pharynx. The lower border from it is free, and is produced in the centre into a conical pendulous part imila. —the uvula (p). Along its middle is a slight ridge, indicative of the original separation into two halves. Descending from the soft palate on each side of the fauces are Arches or • ■ T)illars' the two folds of mucous membrane before referred to, containing muscular fibres, and named the arches or pillars of the soft palate or fauces. The anterior pillar (i) springs from the anterior surface anterior; of the soft palate near the base of the uvula, and reaches to the side of the tongue rather behind the middle ; and the posterior (l), posterior. longer than the other, is continued from the lower border of the velum to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular space in which the tonsil lies. The soft palate consists of an aponeurosis, with muscles, vessels, ^f^^J^j"^'^*^ nerves, and mucous glands ; and the whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily dis- Dissect played, but others require care in their dissection. On the right side the two principal muscles of the soft palate— levator and T -1 • mi 111 tensor on the elevator and tensor, are very plam, 1 hese have already been right half; partly dissected ; but to follow them to their termination, let the upper attachment of the pharynx on the right side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal pterygoid plate be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane and a few muscular fibres cover- ing its lower end. The tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evident. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should also be ascertained. On the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised with great left ' , " . palato- care from the posterior surface of the soft palate, to obtain a view pharyngeus, of the superficial muscular fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus muscle ; and beneath them, close to the middle line, are the longi- tudinal fibres of the azygos uvulse. A slender muscular bundle ^^^^^^ contained in the ridge of mucous membrane descending from the extremity of the Eustachian tube is to be exposed and traced to its junction with the palato-pharyngeus. On the right side, a deeper set of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus is to be followed beneath the levator and azygos muscles. KDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 130 and palato- glossus. Aponeurosi of palate. Nine mus- cles in it. Elevator muscle arises outside I^harynx, The student should remove next the mucous membrane from the muscular filDres contained in the arches of the palate, and should follow these upwards and downwards. In order to see those in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres may not be visible. Aponeurosis of the soft palate. Giving strength to the velum is a thin but firm aj)oneurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE are, on each side, an elevator and tensor, which descend from the skull, with the palato-glossus and jDalato-pharyngeus, which act as depressors, and a small median azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 31, A; 32, ^) is a thick roundish muscle which is partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone close in front of the carotid foramen, and from the lower border of the and is lost adjacent cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. Entering the m velum, pj^^j-yj-jj^ above the superior constrictor, the fibres of the muscle spread out in the soft palate, where they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the opposite side, relations. The belly of the muscle rests against the lower border of the Eustachian tube ; and the expanded part is embraced by two layers of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus (^). Action. It raises the soft palate from the tongue, so as to enlarge the fauces ; and by bringing the hinder part of the velum into con- tact with the posterior wail of the pharynx, it can sliut oft" the upper part of that cavity, as in vocalization, when the air is prevented from passing through the nose. 1. Azygos uvula3. 2. Tensor palati. 3, Levator palati. 4. Palato- pharyngeus—upper end. 6. External pterygoid.131 MUSCLES OF PALATE. The TENSOR or CIRCUMFLEXUS PALATI (fig. 31, B ; 32,^) is a thin Tensor flattened muscle, lying immediately behind the internal pterygoid plate. About an inch wide at its origin, it is attached to the arises scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the pharynx; outer side of the Eustachian tube, and to the spinous process of the sphenoid. The fleshy fibres end below in a tendon, which turns round the haniular process, and is inserted into a ridge close inserted into to the posterior border of the hard palate, and blends inferiorly of soX'^^^^'^ with the aponeurosis of the velum. palate; The fleshy part of the tensor palati is placed between the internal relations; pterygoid muscle externally and the Eustachian tube and levator palati internally. The tendon enters the pharynx between the attachments of the buccinator muscle, and is thrown into folds as it winds round the hamular process, a bursa being placed between the two. In the soft palate it lies between the palato-pharyngeus and joalato-glossus. Action. Acting from the skull the muscle will fix and make use on tense the soft palate ; but its movements will be very limited, P^^^*^' seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. The soft palate being fixed by its depressor muscles, the tensor, on tube, taking its fixed point below, opens the Eustachian tube in swallowing. The PALATO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a Paiato- small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior pillar sioi=sus. (fig. 31, i) of the soft palate. It is connected below with the side of attach- the tongue; from this spot the fibres ascend in front of the tonsil to the ' anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and relations; at its insertion it is placed beneath the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus closes the isthmus of the fauces, use. bringing the soft palate into contact with the tongue, and approxi- mating the anterior pillars, thus shutting ofi" the mouth from the pharynx. The PALATO-PHARYNGEUS (fig. 31, Q ; 32, is much larger than Palato- the preceding muscle, and gives rise to the eminence of the pos- terior pillar (l) of the soft palate. It begins in the soft palate in forms two two layers, which enclose between them the levator palati and ^^^etan;" azygos uvulse muscles. The superficial, very thin, and situate immediately beneath the mucous membrane, meets in the middle line the corresponding part of the opposite muscle; it is also posterior joined by a slender fasciculus, which descends from the anterior jofned by- extremity of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube {salpi7igo-pharyn ■ ^^^^^^1^^. geus, Santorini ; fig. 31, c). The deep or anterior layer is much ^^^^^jq" stronger, and lies between the levator and tensor palati muscles ; layer is its upper fibres spring from the hinder margin of the hard palate • and the aponeurosis of the velum, while the lower ones join those of the opposite side. The two layers meet at the outer part of the soft palate, and the muscle descends behind the tonsil on the side wall of the pharynx. Spreading out below, the anterior fibres are inserted jj. 2 into thyroid132 DISSECTION OF THE PHAEYNX. cartilage and wall of pharynx ; in swallow- ing; of salpingo- pharyngeus Azygos muscle is in two slips; Tonsil is between pillars of fauces: Pharj-ngeal tonsil. Vessels. and nerves. Mucous membrane of pharynx: glands epithelium. inserted into tlie hinder border of the thyroid cartilage, but the greater number end in the submucous tissue of the pharynx beneath the inferior constrictor, the hinder ones meeting the fellow muscle. in the middle line. Action. The palato-pharyngeus depresses and tightens the soft palate, raises the larynx and lower part of the pharynx, and at tlie same time brings together the posterior pillars of the fauces, thus acting as a sphincter by which the nasal portion is separated from the oral portion of the pharynx. In swallowing, the hinder pillars of the soft palate, being aj)proximated by the action of this muscle, form, together with the uvula, an inclined plane, beneatli which the food is directed downwards. The contraction of the salpingo-pha- ryngeus at the same time assists in opening the Eustachian tube, by drawing inwards and backwards the cartilage bounding its orifice. The AZYGOS rvuL^ (fig. 31, d ; 32,^) is situate along the middle line of the velum near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeu- rosis, and end below in the base of the uvula. Behind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Action. Its fibres shorten the mid-part of the soft palate, and elevate the uvula, directing that process backwards. The TONSIL is an oval prominent body, of variable size, placed above the root of the tongue, in a recess between the anterior and posterior pillars of the soft palate. Externally it is covered by the superior constrictor muscle, and is a little above the angle of the lower jaw. The surface of the tonsil is marked by apertures, which lead into recesses lined by mucous membrane. Its substance consists mainly of lymphoid tissue, partly diffused, and partly collected into follicles set roimd the walls of these recesses. A similar collection of lym- phoid tissue stretches across the posterior wall of the pharynx, between the openings of the Eustachian tube, and is known as the fharyngeal tonsil. The arteries of the tonsil are numerous, and are derived from the facial, lingual, ascending pharyngeal and internal maxillary branches of the external carotid. Its veins have a plexiform arrangement on the outer side. Nerves are furnished to it from the fifth and glosso- pharyngeal. Its lymphcUics join the deep cervical glands. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous in front with the lining of the nose, mouth and larynx. A fold encloses the muscles and glands of the soft palate, from which the membrane descends on each side over the tonsil to the tongue. It is also pro- longed by the Eustachian tube to the tympanum ; and below, it is continued into the oesophagus. It is provided with numerous mucous glands in the upper part of the pharynx, and on both sur- faces, but especially the upper, of the soft palate. Another collec- tion of glands (arytenoid) is enclosed in the fold of mucous mem- brane bounding the opening of the larynx on each side. TheCAVITY OF THE MOUTH. 133 epithelium is columnar and ciliated above the soft palate, but scaly and stratified below that part. Beginning of the cesophagus. This tube is much smaller than the pharynx, and the walls are flaccid. For its commencement, and its of cesopha >-us. relations in the neck, see p. 120. The gullet consists of two layers of muscular fibres, with a lining Two layers of mucous membrane. The extexnal Iciyev is formed of longitudinal fibres^^^^''^^ fibres, which begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, outer lon- an anterior and two lateral; the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the inferior constrictor. The internal layer is formed of circular fibres, which are continuous ap^ inner with those of the inferior constrictor. The structure of the cesophagus is described more fully in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth are to. be examined with the mouth, as all may be considered accessory parts. Mouth. The cavity of the mouth extends from the lips in Mouth: front to the anterior pillars of the fauces behind. Its boundaries are partly osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw-bone. When the lower jaw is mode- form, rately removed from the upper, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof, concave, is constituted by the hard and bounda- and soft palate,, and is limited in front and on the sides by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, surrounded by the arch of the lower teeth ; and beneath that body is the sublingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is bounded by the lips ; and the posterior is the isthmus faucium (p. 127), leading into the pharynx. The space between the lips and the teeth is distinguished from the rest Vestibule, of the cavity as the vestibule of the mouth. The mucous membrane is less sensitive on the hard than the soft ^^"^s of^ boundaries of the mouth ; it lines the interior of the cavity, and ^ is reflected over the tongue. In front it is continuous with the skin, and behind with the lining of the pharynx. The epithelium cover- ing the membrane is scaly and stratified. Between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw the diflfers in membrane forms a small fold—frsenulum. Over the bony part of P^^'*^ * the roof it blends with the dense tissue enclosing the vessels and nerves; on the soft palate it is smooth, and thinner. Along theCAVITY OF THE MOUTH. 134 floor, cheek, and Papillse, Cheek; extent, and struc- ture. Lips, formed by orbicularis. contain arteries. Teeth: number and arrangement in jaw. middle of the roof is a slightly raised ra],)he, which ends in front opposite the anterior palatine fossa in a small papilla ; and on each side of this, at the fore part of the hard palate, there are two or three irregular transverse ridges. In the floor of the month the membrane forms the frsenum lingnse beneath the tip of the tongue, and on each side of the fraennm it is raised into a ridge by the sub- lingual gland, at the fore part of which is a small papilla, perforated by the opening of Wharton's duct. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands. Over the whole cavity, but especially on the lips and tongue, are papillse for the purpose of touch. The CHEEK extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus of the lower jaw, and is attached above and below to the alveolar process of the jaw on the outer aspect. The chief constituent of the cheek is the fleshy buccinator muscle : on the inner surface of this is the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The LIPS surround the opening of the mouth; they are formed mainly by the orbicularis oris muscle, covered externally by integu- ment, and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering lie the labial glands ; and in the substance of each lip, internal to the muscular structure, and sepa- rated from the free edge by the marginal bundle of the orbicularis, is placed the arch of the coronary arteries. Teeth. In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, which are set in the alveolar borders in the form of an arch, and are sur- rounded by the gums. Each dental arch has its convexity turned forwards ; and, commonly, the arch in the maxilla overhangs that in the mandible when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names:—the most anterior two are incisors, and the one next behind is the canine tooth ; two, still farther back, are the bicuspids ; and the last three are molar teeth. For details as to the form and structure of the teeth reference must be made to a work on syste- matic or general anatomv. Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Directions. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be necessary to make a sagittal section through the nasal cavity. While examin- ing the boundaries of the nose, the student should be provided withCAVITY OF THE NOSE. 135 a similar section of a macerated skull. It is also desirable, in order to fully comprehend the form of the cavity, that he should have the opportunity of inspecting a coronal section of the nose in the recent state. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower Dissection, jaw on the right side should be taken away, and the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, are to be detached from the opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. On the right side of the middle line saw carefully through the Cut througii frontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and with saw, the body of the sphenoid bone, without letting the saw descend into the nasal cavity. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft Cut soft parts are to be divided on the right side opposite, the cut in the roof saw bone in of the nose. Then by sawing through the hard palate and the alveolar process of the upper jaw along the same line, the piece of the skull will be separated into two parts, right and left ; the right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi, after the mucous membrane has been removed. The CAVITY OF THE NOSE is j)laced in the centre of the bones of Situation of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and between the orbits. The space is divided into two nasal fossce by Division a vertical partition. into two. Each fossa is elongated from before back, and compressed from Form and side to side. Its length is greater below than above, and measures '^""^^^'^^o"^- near the floor about three inches. Its height in the middle of the cavity is about one inch and three-quarters, becoming less in front and behind. The upper part of the fossa is narrow (fig. 33), not exceeding one-eighth of an inch in breadth, and has been named the olfactory cleft, which extends down as far as the lower border of the middle turbinate bone : below this the outer wall recedes, form- ing the respiratory passage, which has a width near the floor of about three-fifths of an inch. In front, each fossa opens onto the face, and Openings, behind into the pharynx, by orifices called nares. Other apertures in the roof and outer wall lead into air-sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz., frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. Each fossa presents for examination a roof and floor, an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The roof is strongly arched from before back, and is formed by Roof, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the lateral cartilages in front; and by the body of the sphenoid, and the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the palate bone, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it; most are in the ethmoid bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nerve and vessels ; on the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and is formed by FloorDISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 136 Inner boundary partly osseous, partly carti- laginous. the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones. Near the front in the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner ivall (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly cartila- ginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the frontal and nasal with which this last bone articulates. The angular space in front in the macerated skull is filled in the recent state by the cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the parti- tion between the nostrils, and supports the lateral cartilages. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid, and the nasal bones, this sup. txirb. hone mid. ethm. cell ^^mid. ethm. cell -mid. meatus ctnininv if. nieatus cartilage rests in front on the incisor crest of the superior maxillte, and projects between the cartilages of the nostrils. The septum nasi is commonly bent to one side. Outer The outer wall has the greatest extent and the most irregular ' surface. Seven bones enter into its formation, and they come in the following order from before backwards :—the nasal and superior maxillary ; the small lachrymal bone and the lateral mass of the ethmoid, with the inferior turbinate bone below these; and j)osteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal formed of pterygoid plate of the sphenoid ; of these, the nasal, lachrymal, and many bones, ethmoid reach only about half way from roof to floor, and the inferior turbinate is confined to the lower half, while the others extend the whole depth. In front of the bones, the lateral cartilages complete this boundary. The nasal fossae in coronal section. On the right side of the figure the section passes through the openings of the middle ethmoidal cells and the antrum into the middle meatus : on the left side, a section of the hinder part of the fossa is represented, and the posterior ethmoidal cells are seen opening into the superior meatus.SPONGY BONES AND MEATUSES. 137 From this wall three slightly convoluted osseous plates, named is i^'^egular turbinate or spongy hones (fig. 34), project into the cavity :—the pj,gggj^'^g upper (^) and middle (^) are processes of the ethmoid, but the lower spongy one (^) is a separate bone. The turbinate bones are confined to that ^'^^^^ portion of the outer wall which is situate above the hard palate. ^^^^ Between each turbinate bone and the wall of the nose is a longitudinal hollow or meatus ; and into these hollows the nasal duct and the sinuses of the surrounding bones open. The meatuses are the spaces arched over by the spongy bones ; and Meatuses, as the bones are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so are the spaces beneath them. The upper meatus (fig. 34,^) is the smallest and straighest of the Upper three, and is limited to the posterior half of the space above the Fig. 34.* hard palate. Into its fore part the posterior ethmoidal cells open (fig. 33 and 35), and at its posterior end, in the dried skull, is the spheno-palatine foramen by which nerves and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus, {fig. 34, ') is longer than the upper, reaching Middle from the posterior opening of the nasal fossa, nearly as far forwards as the hard palate. Tlie free border of the middle turbinate bone being curved upwards anteriorly, this meatus is open in front as well as below. On raising, or cutting away, the overhanging turbinate bone (fig. 35), a deep groove, hiatus semilunaris.^ will be seen in the Outer wall of the nasal cavity. 1. Upper turbinate bone. 2. Middle turbinate bone. 3. Inferior turbinate bone. 4. Flat part of the ethmoid bone. 6. Upper meatus, 7. Middle meatus. 8, Lower meatus. 9. Rudi- mentary fourth meatus. 10. Vestibule. The cut also shows the apertures of the glands of the nose.DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Lower meatus Spheno- ethmoidal fore part of the lateral wall of the meatus, bounded below by the uncinate process of the ethmoid, and leading upwards through the infundibulum of the latter bone to the frontal sinus. Into the groove lower down the anterior ethmoidal cells open, and at its hindmost part is a small aperture leading into the antrum of the superior maxilla. Above the hiatus is an opening leading into the middle ethmoidal cells ; and in some cases there is a second opening into the antrum close above the lower turbinate bone. The inferior meatus (fig. 33), is wider than the middle one, and extends the whole length of the hard palate. Near its anterior extremity is the opening of the nasal duct (fig. 35). Above the superior meatus, in an angle formed by the roof, there is a vertical depression called the spheno-ethmoidal lecess, (fig. 35), on the posterior wall of which the sphenoidal sinus opens ; and occasion- Agger nasi, A fourth ally a small fourth meatus, communicating with a posterior sometfmes ethmoidal cell, is present between the recess and the superior meatus. In front of the attached border of the middle turbinate bone there is usually to be seen a faint ridge, the agger nasi, directed obliquely and atrium, downwards and forwards, and forming the upper boundary of a slight hollow known as the atrium of the middle meatus. Nares. The 7iares. In the recent condition of the nose each fossa has a distinct anterior opening on the face, and another in the pharynx ; but in the skeleton there is only one common opening in front for both sides. These apertures ancl their boundaries have been before described (pp. 30 and 126). * Outer wall of right nasal fossa. The whole of the middle, and the fore part of the lower turbinate bones have been cut away, to show the openings in the middle and inferior meatuses.,139 EEGIOXS OF NOSE. The MUCOUS lining of the nasal fossa is called the ijituitary Mucous or Schneiderian membrane, and is blended with the subjacent perios- ISse.^^^ teum or perichondrium. It is continuous with the skin at the nostril, with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior naris, and with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct; and it sends prolongations to line the different sinuses, viz., frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. The apertures in the dry Ijone which transmit nerves and vessels, Somefora- viz., the incisor and spheno-palatine foramina, the holes in ^j^^ ^^^^^ ^l^^^^' cribriform plate, and the foramen for the nasal nerve and vessels, are entirely closed by the membrane ; and the openings leading to others the sinuses are reduced in size by the ]3i"olongations passing through them. Afc the termination of the nasal duct the mucous mem- brane forms a single or double fold, which is sometimes sufficient to close the opening and prevent air entering the canal from the nose. Over the middle and lower turbinate bones, and to a greater extent Folds on on the latter, the mucous membrane is thickened and projected bones."^ beyond the edges of the bones by the large submucous vessels, so that the meatuses are deeper and longer in the recent state than in the dried skull. The aj^pearance and structure of the lining membrane differ in the Three upper and lower parts of the nasal fossa, and near the anterior open- nas^aifossa. ing, whence a division of the cavity is made into three portions, which are termed respectively the olfactory region, the respiratory region, and the vestibule. The vestibule (fig. 34,'°) is the slightly dilated portion of the Vestibule, cavity immediately within the nostril. It is bounded by the cartilage of the aperture and the ala of the nose ; and its wall is more flexible than that of the part above. The lining membrane of the vestibule lias the characters of the outer skin, being furnished with papillce and hairs (vibrissa;), and lined by a stratified scaly epithelium. The respiratory reqion is the part below the level of the middle Respiratory . reo^ioii. turbinate bone. Its mucous membrane is thick, of a red colour, ° very vascular, and has numerous mucous glands, the openings of which are readily seen on the surface. The glands are largest and most abundant on the inferior turbinate bone, and at the lower and back part of the cavity. The epithelium of this region is columnar and ciliated. The olfactory region is the narrowed upper part of the nasal fossa. Olfactory which is enclosed by the ethmoid bone. It comprises the part of the roof formed by the cribriform plate, the part of the septum (about one-third) formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and, on the outer wall, the upper and middle turbinate bones, together with the flat surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid in front of the former. Over this region the olfactory nerves are dis- tributed, and it is, therefore, the seat of the sense of smell. The olfactory mucous membrane is thinner, softer, and less vascular than that in the respiratory region, and it has in the fresh state a140 DISSECTION OF THE JSTOSE. Mucous membrane in sinuses. Dissection of nerves and vessels. yellowish colour. Its epithelium is columnar, but not ciliated; and it is thickly heset with simple tubular glands. In the sinuses the mucous lining is thin and pale, and its glands are few and small. Dissection. At tliis stage of the dissection, but little will be seen of the distribution of the olfactory nerves. If the septum be removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the left side, the nervous filaments will appear on the surface, near- the cribriform plate. In the membrane, near the front of the septum, an offset of the nasal nerve is to be found. The naso-palatine nerve and artery (fig. 36, are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine fossa; the artery is readily seen, especially if Olfactory nerves; inner set: it is injected, but the fine nerve is embedded in the membrane, and will be found hj scraping with the point of the scalpel. By cutting through the fore and upper part of the membrane detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The OLFACTORY NERVES spring from the under surface of the olfactory bulb as it lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone (fig. 36, ^), and descend to the olfactory region of the nose through the apertures in this part of the roof. They are about twenty in number, and are divided into two sets. Those of the inner set are the larger, and run downwards in the grooves on the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, to be distributed over the upper third of the Nerves of the septum of the nose. 1. Olfactory bulb and inner set of olfactory nerves. 2. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic trunk. 3. Naso-palatine nerve from Meckel's ganglion (too large in the cut).DISSECTION OF MECKEL'S GANGLION. 141 septum. The outer set (fig. 37) ramifies over tlie upper turbinate o"ter set. bone, the flat surface of the ethmoid in front of this, and the fore part of the middle turbinate bone. As the nerves leave the skull, they receive sheaths from the dura mater and pia mater, which are continued as far as their terminal ramifications, and then become lost in the surrounding tissue. The trunks break up into tufts of filaments which communicate freely together, forming a close net- work beneath the mucous membrane. The olfactory nerves consist wholly of non-meduUated fibres. The other nerves in the nose will be described in the following section. Blood-vessels. For a statement of the different vessels of the nose, Biood-ves- see p. 145. The arteries form a network in the pituitary mem- brane, and a large submucous plexus on the edge of each of the two lower spongy bones, especially on the inferior. The veins have a veins, plexiform disposition like the arteries, and this is largest on the lower spongy bone and the septum nasi. Section XIV. SPHENO-PALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA, NASAL AND FACIAL NERVES, AND FINAL BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY VESSELS. The preparation of Meckel's ganglion and its branches (fig. 37), Meckel's and of the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery, is a sangUon. difficult task, in consequence of the nerves and vessels being con- tained in osseous canals which require to be opened. The branches are first to be sought, and these are then to be followed to the ganglion and main ti-unk. Dissection. The left half of the head is to be used for the dis- Dissection play of the ganglion and its branches ; but the student will derive advantage from first attempting the dissection on the remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches to the palate, detach the soft parts in of palatine the roof of the mouth from the bone, until the nerves and vessels escaping from the posterior palatine canals are arrived at. Cut off, with the bone forceps, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level with the vessels and nerves ; and cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the front of the mouth. Take away, without injury to the naso-palatine nerve and vessels nasal (already found), the hinder portion of the loose piece of mucous '^^^'^'^^-^^' membrane detached from the septum nasi; and separate the mucous membrane from the outer wall of the nasal fossa, behind the spongy bones, as high as the spheno-palatine foramen. In reflecting for-DISSECTION OF THE HEAD, wards the membrane, vessels and nerves will be seen entering it through the foramen ; but these may be left for the j^resent, and directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has been removed behind the spongy bones, the palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and may be readily reached by breaking carefully through the latter with a chisel. Afterwards, the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves being opened, these are to be followed down to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the ganglion which is close to the body of the S23lienoid bone. To bring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the overhanging body of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body, from which the Vidian and pharyngeal nerves j)ass backwards. Besides the branches referred to, the student should seek two large nerves from the top of the ganglion to join the superior maxillary trunk, and smaller off'sets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the Vidian branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nerve, the student must'lay open the canal which contains it and its artery in the root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small pharyngeal branches of nerve and artery which are superficial to the Vidian, and lie in the pterygo- l^alatine canal. At the back of the Vidian canal, a small branch from the nerve to the plexus on the internal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, the prolongation of the Vidian nerve (large superficial petrosal) is to be followed into the skull through the dense tissue in the foramen lacerum, after cutting away the point of the petrous j^ortion of the temporal bone, and dividing the internal carotid artery; and it is to be pursued on the surface of the tem- poral bone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii : its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that nerve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose will be found entering the outer surface of the detached mucous membrane opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), dissected before in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. The branches of the internal maxillary artery with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. The SPHENO-PALATINE or Meckel's ganglion (fig. 37, ') lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen, and is connected with the branches of the sujjerior maxillary nerve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate, for the most part, behind the branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior maxillary nerve, so as to surround only some of their fibres ; and it is j)ro- longed posteriorly into the Vidian nerve. Meckel's ganglion re-143 BEANCHES OF MECKEL'S GANGLIOK sembles the other ganglia in connection with the fifth nerve in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic offsets or roots connected with it. The branches of the ganglion are distributed chiefly to the nose branches, and palate, but small offsets are given to the pharynx and the orbit. Other offsets or roots connect it with surrounding nerves. Branches to the nose. The nasal branches, from three to five in Nasal number, are very small and soft, and pass inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen; they are distributed in the nose and the roof of the mouth. Tlie superior nasal branches ramify in the mucous membrane on superior uasal, Fig. 37.^^ the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments reach the back part of the septum nasi. The naso-palatine nerve (fig. 36, ^) crosses the roof of the nasal naso- fossa to reach the septum, on which it descends to near the front of that partition. In the floor of the nose it enters a special canal by the side of the septum, the left being anterior to the right, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are distributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and communicate with one another. On the septum nasi filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth must be opened. * Nerves of tlie outer wall of the nose and of the palate. 1. Olfactory tract. 2. Olfactory bulb giving branches to the nose. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. 5, Fifth nerve. 6. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic trunk. 7. Meckel's ganglion. 8. Vidian nerve. 9. Large palatine nerve. 10. Small palatine nerve, ft Nasal branches.144 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. branches Branches in the 'palate. The nerves of the palate, though con- nected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 101). are three. Below the ganglion they are divided into three —large, small, and external. Large nerve The large or anterior palatine nerve (fig. 37, ^) reaches the roof of to nose'-*^^^^ the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and courses forwards nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve. While in the canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments {inferior nasal,\) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in the roof of the mouth it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an offset to the soft palate, small; and The small or 'posterior palatine nerve (^°) lies in the smaller canal, and ends below in the soft palate, the uvula, and the tonsil, external The external palatine nerve is very small, and descends in the palatine. canal of the same name to be distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. Pharyngeal The pharyngeal branch is a minute twig which is directed through branch. pterygo-palatine canal to supply the mucous membrane of the pharynx near the Eustachian tube. Orbital Branches to the orbit. Two or three in number, these ascend branches. through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the periosteum and orbital muscle (p. 50). It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Uniting Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, with fo^flfth!''' the spheno-palatine branches of the fifth nerve (fig. 37,'), receiving sensory fibres through them ; and through the medium of the Vidian, which is described below, it communicates with a motor nerve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve, and to facial The Vidian nerve (^) passes backwards through the Vidian canal, thetic^™^^' and sends some small filaments through the bone to the membrane Vidian^^ at the back of the roof of the nose (upper posterior nasal branches). At its exit from the canal, the nerve receives a soft reddish ofiset (large deep petrosal nerve) from the sympathetic on the outer side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum, and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large siqjerjidal petrosal nerve (fig. 38,^). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the geni- culate ganglion of the facial nerve (p. 147). compound '^^^ Vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and sym- nerve. pathetic fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the sym23athetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The student may now give his attention to the remaining nerves in the nasal cavity. Seek other Dissection. The nasal nerve is to be sought behind the nasal. bone (fig. 37) by gently detaching the lining membrane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum, but probably this, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part.145 IJITEENAL MAXILLAEY ARTEKY. Tlie terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery in the vessels of spheno-maxillary fossa have been laid bare in the dissection of MeckeFs ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The NASAL NERVE (of the oijhthalmic) (fio-. 37 °) has been already Nasal nerve • ^1 in 11-^ T? ^ • /i 1V 1 . lies beneath seen m the skull and orbit. iLntering the nasal lossa by an aperture nasal bone; at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a branch to the membrane of the septum, and then descends in a groove on the back of the nasal bone. At the lower margin of the latter it escapes between tlie bone and the upper lateral cartilage to the surface of the nose (p. 45). Brandies. The hranch to the septum (fig, 3G) divides into filaments i>ranfii u< that ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower border. One or tiro filaments are likewise furnished by the nerve to the an^^ mucous membrane on the outer wall of the nasal fossa : these extend as low as the inferior spongy l^one. Terminal branches op the internal maxillary artery. The branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, whicli maxillary have not been examined, are the superior palatine, nasal, pterygo- ^^'^^'^y ^i-'' palatine, and Vidian. The superior or descending palatine is tlie largest brancli, and accompanies the large palatine nerve through the canal, and along the roof of the mouth ; it anastomoses behind the incisor teeth with its fellow, and with the naso-palatine branch through the incisor foramen. This artery supplies offsets to the soft palate and tonsil through the other palatine canals, and some twigs are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous membrane, glands and gums receive their vessels from it. The nasal or sjjlieno-palatine artery enters the nose through the iiasal spheno-j)alatine foramen, and divides into brandies. Some of these ^^^^^ are distributed on the spongy bones, and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the posterior ethmoidal cells. One long brancli, naso-palatine or artery of the septum nasi, runs on the partition one to sep- between the nasal fosste to tlie incisor foramen, through Avhich it "^^^' anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth ; this branch accompanies the naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with numerous ramifications. The pterygo-palatine is a very small ln\anch which, passing back- P^JJ^J^^' wards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to the branch; lining membrane of the pharynx. The Vidian or pteriiqoid hranch is contained in the Vidian canal Vidian 1)1*3,11011 with the nerve of the same name, and ends on the mucous mem- brane of the Eustachian tube and the upper part of the pharynx. Some small nasal arteries are furnished to the roof of the nasal ^^teries''^^'^^ fossa by the posterior ethmoidal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 46). Also the anterior ethmoidal (internal nasal; p. 46) enters the cavity with the nasal nerve, and ramifies in the lining membrane of the fore part of the nasal chamber as low as the vestibule : a branch LDISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 Veins to alveolar plexus. Facial nerve. Dissecticn of nerve in the bone, and its genu; of clionia tympani: passes to the face between the nasal bone and the cartilage with the nerve. Other offsets from the facial artery supply the nose near the nostril. Veins. The veins accompanying the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery enter the alveolar plexus in the spheno- maxillary fossa (p. 90). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose the veins have a plexiform arrangement, as before said. Facial Nerve in the Temporal Bone (fig. 38). This nerve winds through the petrous part of the temporal bone ; and it is followed with difficulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal Fig. 38.* bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissection. The trunk of the nerve is to be found as it leaves the stylo-mastoid foramen, and from this point it is to be followed upwards through the temporal bone. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through vertically between the meatus auditorius ex- ternus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the lower part of the aqueduct of Fallopius from behind. The nerve will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed forwards by cutting away with the bone-forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be opened, and the chain of bones in it exposed. The nerve is to be traced onwai-ds along the inner side of the tympanum, until it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius internus. The surrounding bone is to be removed from the enlargement, so as to allow of the petrosal nerves being traced from it ; and the internal meatus is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that canal. The course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the facial) across the tympanum will be brought into sight by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. This nerve may be also followed * Facial nerve in the temporal bone. 1. Facial nerve. 2. Large superficial petrosal. 3. Small superficial petrosal from Jacobson's nerve. 4. External superficial petrosal. 5. Chorda tympani of the facial.147 FACIAL NERYE IN THE BONE. to the facial through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone are very and other minute, and are not to be seen except on a fresh jDiece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may, therefore, omit the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, until he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. The FACIAL NERVE (fig. 38/) traverses the internal auditory meatus, Facial nerve and entering the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of that hollow, is conducted through the temporal bone to the stylo-mastoid foramen winds and the face (p. 37). In its serpentine course through the bone, temporal the nerve is first directed outwards to the inner wall of the tym- bone, panum ; at that spot it bends backwards, and is marked by a is marked ganglionic swelling—geniculate ganglion, with which several small which^give^ nerves are united. From this swelling the nerve is continued at off twigs, first backwards and then downwards through the arched aqueduct, to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serve chiefly to connect it with other nerves ; but one supj^lies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. * Connecting hranches unite the facial with the auditory and Branches glosso-pharyngeal nerves, with Meckel's ganglion, and with the nerie^ lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. * Union idth the auditory nerve. In the bottom of the meatus to auditory, the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute filaments. Gon7iecting branches of the geniculate ganglion.—From the con- vexity of the swelling on the facial nerve three small branches proceed. One is the large superficial petrosal nerve (^), passing to to Meckel's the Vidian (p. 144) ; another is a filament of communication with fy"fpa^c of the small superficial petrosal nerve of the tympanic plexus (^) ; and the third is the external superficial 'petrosal nerve (■^), which unites sympa-' the ganglion wi'th the sympathetic on the middle meningeal ^^etic; artery. * The branch of the stapedius muscle arises at the back of the nerve to tympanum, and is directed forwards to its muscle. stapedius,, Chorda tympani. This long but slender branch of the facial chorda nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising to'iingual. about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it enters the tympanum below the pyramid. In the cavity (fig. 38, ^) the nerve is directed forwards across the handle of the malleus and the membrana tympani to an aperture on the inner side of the Glaserian fissure, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the skull the chorda tympani joins the lingual nerve, and continues along it to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue <p. 98). The AUDITORY NERVE wiU be learnt with the ear. Entering the Auditory internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger part, which are distributed to the membranous labyrinth. L 2148 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Otic ganglion. Dissection to find it, to define ganglion and its branches. Otic gan- glion is on inner side of inferior maxillary. Otic ganglion. At tliis stage of the dissection there is little to be seen of the ganglion, hut the student should keep in mind that it is one of the things to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, immediately below the foramen o^'ale, and it adheres closely to the trunk of the nerve. Dissection (fig. 39). Putting the part in the same position as for the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and the cartilaginous portion of the tube, using much care in removing the latter. When some loose areolar tissue has been cleared away, the internal pterygoid muscle (6) comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it; and a brancli (internal pterygoid, ^) descending from that nerve to the muscle. Fig. 39.* If the nerve to the pterygoid be taken a& a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. To complete dissection, saw tically through petrous part of temporal bone the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being supported while it is divided. Taking off some membrane Avhich covers the gan giion, tlie student may follow l)ackwards a ; but he should open by entering it below Above this small brancli there is another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal), which issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle ; and other minute filaments to join the sympathetic nerve on the large meningeal artery and the chorda tympani. The OTIC GANGLiox (Arnold's ganglion; fig. 39) is a small reddish body, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior maxillarv —4 the ver the the near small branch to the tensor tympani muscle the small tube that contains the muscle, through the carotid canal. nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to its inner surface the ganglion is the internal pterygoid muscle. By in contact with the Eustachian tube. and at a little distance ]:)ehind * The otic ganglion from the inner side. a. Tensor tympani muscle. b. Internal pterygoid muscle, c. External carotid artery with the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining lingual. 5. Nerve to internal pterygoid. 6. Nerve to tensor palati. 7. Auriculo-temporal nerve.BEANCHES OF OTIC GANGLION. 149 lies the large meningeal artery. In this ganglion, as in the others Structure, connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are furnished hy it to mnscles. Connectiiuj brandies—roots. Through its connection with the Brandies nerve to the internal pterygoid, the otic ganglion receives fibres from jitth,^* both the small and large roots of the inferior maxillary nerve, so that it may be said to derive its motor and sensory roots from the fifth. Its sympathetic root comes from the j^lexus on the middle meningeal artery. The ganglion is farther joined behind by the ' ' «mall superficial petrosal nerve (-), through which fibres are conveyed seventh, to it from the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. One or two "inth, short branches pass between the ganglion and the beginning of the auricuio- ixuriculo-temporal nerve ; and a filament descends to the chorda and chorda tympani. tyrapani. Branches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves through Branches to the otic ganglion, viz., tensor tympani and tensor palati. The nerve tensoi^^' to the tensor tympani (^) is directed backwards to gain the bony ^^^^^^Jj^^^^^^ canal lodging the muscle. The branch for the tensor iKilati (") arises palati. from the front of the ganglion, and enters the outer surface of its muscle. The fibres of these branches are derived mainly from the internal pterygoid nerve. The nerve of the internal ])terij(joid muscle (^) arises from the inner Nerve of side of the inferior maxillary nerve near the skull, and penetrates ptexj^o^d. the deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is formed almost entirely by an oft set from the motor root of the fifth. Directions. The remainder of the pteiygo-maxillary I'egion of the Directions, left side may Ije now examined. Section XV. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. The tongue and larynx are to remain connected with Directions, each other while the student learns the general form and structure of the tongue. Dissection. The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles that have Dissection. l)een detached on the right side may be shortened, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE is an ovoid, somewhat flattened body, with the Tongue: larger end turned backwards, which occupies the floor of the mouth, form and and forms a part of the anterior wall of the x^harynx. It is free "^^^''^^lo" > over the greater part of its surface ; but at the back, and at the posterior tAvo-thirds of the under surface, it is attached by muscles and mucous membrane to the parts around.160 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. relations of apex, and Upper surface body Lower surface. Borders. Kinds of papillae: conical and filiform ; fungiform circumval- late. The tip of the tongue (apex) touches the incisor teeth. The base is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likewise with the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane—a central and twa lateral. The upper surface or dorsum is convex, and in the anterior two- thirds of its extent is marked by a median longitudinal groove or raphe, which terminates behind in a depression of variable depth, named the foramen caecum. From the depression a slight lateral groove is directed outwards and forwards on each side for a short distance. The part of the tongue in front of the lateral grooves is- distinguished as the body, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth : its surface is covered with papillae. The posterior third or root of the organ looks into the pharynx ; and its surface is smoother, although rendered somewhat irregular by projecting mucous glands and groups of lymphoid follicles, and by small apertures leading into recesses of tlie mucous membrane. The under surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous membrane and to the different lingual muscles connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw. In front of the muscles the mucous membrane forms a fold in the middle line, termed the froenum linguces and on each side an irregular ridge—plica fimbriata (better seen in infants), runs forwards and inwards about midway between the fraenum and the margin of the tongue towards the tip. Each border of the tongue is joined opposite the lateral groove above mentioned by the fold of mucous membrane descending from the soft palate, and known as the anterior pillar of the fauces. Behind this fold, the root of the tongue is attached on each side to the wall of the j)harynx ; but in front, the margin of the body is free. The free border is thick and rounded in its hinder part, where it is marked by vertical ridges and furrows, and becomes gradually thinner towards the tip. Papillae. On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds of papillte ; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the circumvallate. The cortical and filiform papillce are the numerous small projec- tions which cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They taper from the base towards the free extremity, where they are provided with smaller secondary papillae ; and many of them, especially towards the sides of the organ, have their epithelial covering produced into long hair-like processes, whence the name filiform is given to them. Towards their limit behind they are arranged in lines parallel to the lateral grooves, and on the sides they form vertical rows. The fungiform 2^(ipillce are less numerous but larger than the preceding set, amongst which they are scattered, especially at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and project beyond the conical papillae. Their surface is covered with small simple papillae. The circumvallate papillce are much larger than the foregoing, and are placed at the junction of the middle and posterior thirdsSTRUCTUEE OF THE TONGUE. 151 of the tongue. Tlieir number varies from seven to twelve. One, larger than the rest, is situate immediately in front of the foramen caecum, and the others are disposed in two rows (one on each side) parallel to the lateral groove, so as to form a figure like a widely- spread letter V, Each papilla is attached by a constricted stem, which is surrounded by a groove ; its wider end or base projects beyond the surface of the tongue, and is covered with small simple papillae. Around the groove the mucous membrane forms a slightly prominent fold, which is also beset with secondary papilla). Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves Parts found separated by a fibrous layer in the median plane. Each half is tongue, made up of muscular fibres with interspersed fat ; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The tongue is enveloped by raucous membrane; and a special fibrous layer attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching Define the tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its '^^P*"'"' dorsum ; and, the remains of the right mylo- and genio-hyoid muscles having been removed, the genio-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating those muscles, and cutting across their intercommuni- hyo-giossai eating fibres, the edge of the septum will appear. By tracing the hinder fibres of the genio-glossus muscle towards the hyoid bone, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. On the outer side of the genio-glossus muscle is the longitudinal and inferior bundle of the inferior lingualis, w^hich will be better seen subse- ^'"^ui^iis. quently. Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a Fibrous thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum ; the root of the tongue ofTo^ngue! is attached by another fibrous structure, the hyo-glossal membrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ is a submucous layer of the same tissue. Septum. This structure forms a vertical partition between the Septum, two halves of the tongue (fig. 41, b), and extends from the base to the apex, but does not reach to the dorsum. It is thicker behind than in front, and is connected posteriorly with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is attached. Its disposition may be better seen subsequently on a vertical section. The hyo-qlossal membrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, Hyo-glossal Avhich attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the hyoid bone. The submucous fibrous stratum of the tongue invests the organ, and ^^y^"^*^^*^^^^ is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the muscular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue.152 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Muscles ill each half: two kinds. Extrinsic number. Dissection of jialato-, stylo-, and ]iyo-glossu> of plia- ryngeo- of f hondi-o- giossus. Palato- glossus in tongue. Stylo- f^lossus pro- longed to tip of tongue; sends many libres in- wards. Muscles. Eacli half of the tongue is made up of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former or external are distinguished by having only their termination in the tongue ; and the latter, or in- ternal, by having both origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing from one part and ending at another. The extrinsic muscles (fig. 40) are the following : palato-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-glossus, hyo-glossus, chondro-glossus, and pharyn- geo-glossus. Only the lingual endings of these, except in the case of the chondro-glossus, are now to be studied. Dissection. After the tongue has been firmly fastened on its left side, the extrinsic muscles may be dis- sected on the right half. Three of these muscles, viz., palato- (d), stylo- (b), and hyo-glossus (c), come together to the side of the tongue ; and, to follow their radiating fibres inwards and for- wards, it will be necessary to remove from the dorsum, between them and tlie ti]!, a thin layer consisting of the mucous membrane with the submu- cous fibrous tissue, and the fleshy fibres of the upper lingualis. Beneath the tip a junction between the stylo- glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. The piece of the constrictor mus- cle (g) which is attached to the tongue, and the ending of the genio-glossus will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus. To lay bare the chondro-glossus (f), which is a small muscular slip attached to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small cornu of the hyoid through the mucous membrane. Then remove the mucous membrane in front of this, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be visible. The PALATO-GLOSSUS reaches the side of the tongue at the junction (jf the posterior and middle thirds. Its fibres are directed inwards, in part on the surface, and in part deeply with the trans^^erse muscle of the septum. The STYLO-GLOSSUS joins the body of the tongue below the fore- going, and is continued forwards as a gradually tapering bundle beneath the lateral margin to the tip of the organ, where it becomes united Avith the inferior lingualis, and meets the muscle of the opposite side. From its upper border fibres are directed inwards over the dorsum of the tongue to the middle line ; and other * Muscles on the dorsum of the tongue. A. Superficial lingualis. B. Stylo- glossus, c. Hyo-glossus. d. Palato-glossus. F. Chondro-glossus. g. Pha- ryngeo-glossus. h. Septum linguae. (After Zaglas.)MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. bundles pass inwards from its lower edge between the fasciculi of the hyo-glossus. The HYO-GLOSSUS enters the under surface of the tongue in its Hyo- middle third, between the stylo-glossus and the inferior lingualis. 8^*^'^'^^^ Its fil)res are collected into bundles which turn round the margin united with and form, with those of the preceding muscles, a layer on the ^^yj^Q*^'" dorsum of the tongue, the hinder lil)res passing almost transversely glossus. inwards, the anterior inclining forwards to the tip. The CHONDRO-GLOSSUS is a small fan-shaped muscle, which arises ciiondro- from the lesser cornu and the adjacent part of the body of the liyoid s^^^s^"^- bone. Its fibres are directed forwards, spreading out beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the tongue^ and are inserted into the submucous layer. Cortex, of the tongue. The muscles above described, together with Muscular the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and tongiie.^ longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where tlie genio-glossus and inferior lingualis muscles are placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down " (Zaglas). Tliis stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. The GENio-GLOSSUS (fig. 41, a) enters the tongue vertically by Genio- the side of the septum and perforates the cortical covering to end in the tongue; the submucous tissue. In the tongue the filjres spread like the rays of a fan from apex to l)ase, and are collected into transverse laminse as Fig. 41," they pass through the transversalis. The hindmost fibres end on the hyo- glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is prolonged from them, beneath the hyo-glossus, to tlie upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The PHARYNGEO-GLOSSUS, or the fibres of the upper constrictor at- tached to the side of the tongue, passes beneath the fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. The intrinsic muscles are four in number in each half of the intrinsic tongue, viz., transversalis, a superior and an inferior lingualis, and muscles, a set of perpendicular fil^res. Dissection. To com^Dlete the preparation of the inferior Ihigualis First .show on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering It in front, ^"f^"^''' r.nd those of the hyo-glossus over it behind are to be cut through. The superior lingualis (fig. 40, a) may be shown on the left side, tiuai^supe- by taking the thin mucous memljrane from the upper surface from guaiii','" tip to base. The transversalis may be laid bare on the right side, l)y cutting then trans- away on the upper surface the stratum of the extrinsic muscles ^'ersalis. * Transverse section of the tongue, a. Genio-glossus. b. Septum lingufe. c. Transversahs. D. Inferior hngualis. (After Zaglas.)DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. already seen ; and by removing on the lower surface the inferior lingualis and the genio-glossus, after the former muscle has been examined. The nerves of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit ; but a fresh specimen will be required to follow them satisfactorily. The TRANSVERSALis MUSCLE (fig. 41, c) fomis a horizontal layer in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat curved, to their insertion into the submucous tissue at the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into flattened bundles, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres of the genio-glossus. Action. By the contraction of the fibres of the two muscles the tongue is made narrower and rounder, and is increased in length. The SUPERIOR LINGUALIS (fig. 40, a) is a very thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the submucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the fraenimi epiglottidis, and from the fibrous tissue along the middle line ; from this attachment they are directed obliquely outwards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue at which they end in the submucous fibrous tissue. Action. Both muscles tend to shorten the tongue ; and they will bend the point upwards. The INFERIOR LINGUALIS (fig. 41, d) is much stronger than the preceding, and is placed on the under surface of the tongue, between the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus. The muscle arises behind from the fascia at the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle : from its attached surface fasciculi are continued upwards through the transverse fibres to the dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the styloglossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and dis- tributed with it. Action. This muscle shortens the tongue, and bends the apex downwards. The intrinsic perpendicular fibres are found near the border of the fore part of the tongue, and can be seen only in transverse sections. They pass from the submucous tissue of the dorsum downwards and somewhat outwards, decussating with the cortical and transverse fibres, to the under surface. Action. By their contraction these fibres flatten and render broader the part of the tongue in w^hich they occur. Medullary portion of the tongue. The central part of the tongue,, which is thus named, is paler in colour and softer than the cortex. It is composed mainly of the bundles of the transverse muscle cross- ing the laminae of the genio-glossus internally and the perpendicular fibres externally, together with interspersed fat. The mucous membrane of the tongue is a continuation of that lining the mouth, and is provided with a stratified scaly epithelium. ItNERYES AND VESSELS OF THE TONGUE. 156 invests tlie greater part of the tongue, and is reflected off at different points in the form of folds (p. 150). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-epiglottidean folds, connecting this body to the root of Folds, the tongue ; the central one of these is called the frcenum of the epiglottis. It is furnished with numerous glands, and lymphoid crypts and follicles. The crypts are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are Crypts, surrounded by lymphoid follicles in the submucous tissue, like the arrangement in the tonsil; they occupy the dorsum of the tongue between the circumvallate papillae and the epiglottis, where they form a stratum close beneath the mucous membrane. The lingual glands are racemose, similar to those of the lips and and glands cheek, and are placed beneath the mucous membrane on the dorsum ' of the tongue behind the circumvallate pajjillse. A few are found in front of the circumvallate papillae, where they project into the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on the surface ; others in the hollows around the circumvallate papillas, or into the foramen caecum and the depressions of the crypts. Opposite the circumvallate pajDillae, at the margin of the tongue, glands at is a small cluster of mucous glands. Under the tip of the tongue, ,, ' , RllCl 1)6116311*11 on each side of the fraenum, is another elongated collection of the tip. same kind of glands embedded in the muscular fibres, from which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nerves on the under surface of each Nerves half of the tongue, viz., the lingual of the fifth, the hypoglossal, and sources: the glosso-pharyngeal (fig. 25). The lingual nerve sends upwards filaments through the muscular lingual of substance to the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, and supplies the conical and fungiform papillae. Accompanying this nerve are the lingual fibres of the chorda tympani (p. 98). The hypoglossal nerve is spent in long slender ofi"sets to the mus- twelfth, cular substance of the tongue. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve divides under the hyo-glossus into two and ninth, branches. One turns to the dorsum, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen caecum, supplying also the circum- vallate papillae. The other passes to the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the mucous membrane, extending forwards to about the middle of the border. Vessels. The arteries are derived from the lingual of each side : Arteries, V6iDS 3>Ild the veins pass to the internal jugular trunk (p. 97). The lymphatics lympiiatics. of the tongue for the most part pass backwards to the upper deep cervical glands, and have connected with them two or three small lingual glands on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle ; but some descend to the submaxillary lymphatic glands.156 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Section XYI. DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. General coiistruclion of larviix'. Dissection Form ; and' diniei sions in male, in female, and in cliild. Relations Muscles, extrinsic and intrinsic. Direction Dissection The Lary^'X is the upper dilated part of the airtube, in which the voice is produced. It is constructed of several cartilages united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The Avhole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the laryiix by cutting through its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. The student Avill find it advantageous to learn the laryngeal cartilages before beginning the dissection of the larynx. Their description is given at p. 166. The larynx is placed in the middle of the neck, in front of the pharynx, and in the resting condition opposite the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. It is however very moveable, its con- nections permitting es]3ecially a considerable degree of elevation, which comes into play in the act of swallowing. Its form is pyramidal, the base being turned upwards and attached to the hyoid l^one, while the apex joins the trachea. In length it measures, in the male, about an inch and three-quarters ; in width, at the top nearly as much, and at the lower end one inch ; while the greatest depth from before backwards is about an inch and a lialf. In the female, the average length is an inch and a half, and the depth one inch. Before the age of puberty the larynx is relatively very small. On each side the larynx is covered by the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, the carotid vessels, and the latei'al lobes of the thyroid body. The front projects beneath the skin in the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Muscles. The steriio-thyroid and th}ro-hyoid muscles, which, together with the stylo-pharyngeus and inferior constrictor of the pharynx, move the larynx as a whole, are frequently called the extrinsic muscles of the larynx. The intrinsic muscles are six pairs and one single muscle. Of these, one paired muscle is exposed on the side of the larynx ; two pairs and a single muscle are seen at the back ; and the rest are concealed by the thyroid cartilage. Directions. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and the superficial muscles are to be first learnt, which do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissection. The larynx being extended and fastened with j)iiis, the dissector may clear away from the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage the following muscles, viz., omo-liyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and inferior constrictor.CRICO-THYEOID MUSCLE. 157 Along the side, between the thyroid and cricoid cartihiges, the of t^^s. crico-thyroid muscle (fig. 42) will be lecognised. muJcies!^^ To denude the posterior muscles (fig. 43), it will be necessary to turn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane covering it. On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle ; and above this, on the back of the arytenoid cartilages, the arytenoid muscle will api)ear, with Fi?. 42. Fig. 43. t the crossing fasciculi of the aryteno-ejDiglottidean muscles on its surface. The CRico-THYROiD MUSCLE (fig. 42,^) is fan-shaped, and is Crico- separated by a triangular interval from the one on the opposite side. It arises from the front and the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage ; origin; and its fibres radiate to be inserted into the lower cornu, and the insertion; lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forwards as a quarter of an inch from the middle line; as well as for a short distance into the inner surface of that cartilage. The muscle rests on the crico-thyroid membrane, and is concealed by the sterno-thyroid muscle. Action. It draws the cricoid cartilage upwards and backwards, so use. as to increase the distance between the thyroid and the arytenoid cartilages, and thus tightens the vocal cords. The POSTERIOR CRICO-ARYTENOID MUSCLE (fig. 43, c) arlscs from Posterior crico- arytenoid is. Side view of the larynx. 1. Crico-thyroid muscle. 2. Thyroid cartilage, ^^j^j^'^^ '^^ 3. Cricoid cartilage. _ _ cartilage: + Hinder view of the larynx, a. Aryteno-epiglottidean muscle, b. Ary- tenoid muscle, c.c. Posterior crico-arytenoids.158 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Kerato- cricoid. Arytenoid muscle lies on back of arytenoid cartilages: Aryteno- epiglotti- dean mus- cles cross like letter X: Dissection of internal muscles. Remove half of thyroid cartilage. Position of muscles. the depression by the side of the vertical ridge at the back of the cricoid cartilage. From this origin the fibres are directed out- wards and upwards, converging to their insertion into the mus- cular process at the outer side of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. Action. It draws the arytenoid cartilage downwards and outwards to a slight extent, separating this from the one of the opposite side ; but its principal action is to rotate the cartilage, turning outwards the vocal process, and thus dilating the glottis. Kerato-cricoid muscle (Merkel). This is a small fleshy slip which is occasionally seen at the lower border of the preceding muscle. It arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back of the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The ARYTENOID MUSCLE is single, and extends across the middle line, closing the inteival between the arytenoid cartilages behind. Its transverse fibres are attached on each side to the outer part of the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. On its hinder surface lie the arj^teno-epiglottidean muscles ; and the laryngeal mucous membrane covers it in front in the space between the cartilages. Action. It dra-\^-s together the arytenoid cartilages, rendering narrower the opening of the glottis. The ARYTENO-EPiGLOTTiDEAN MUSCLES are two Small bundles which cross obliquely from one side to the other on the back of the arytenoid muscle. Each arises from the outer and lower part of the posterior surface of one arytenoid cartilage, and passes to the upper part of the outer border of the cartilage of the opposite side, Avhere a few of the fibres are inserted, but the greater number turn round this border and end in the aryteno-ejoiglottidean fold of the mucous membrane, some reaching the margin of the epiglottis. A slip is also prolonged into the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The ending of the muscle will be seen later when the ala of the thyroid carti- lage has been removed. Action. These muscles bring together the tips of the arytenoid cartilages, and depress the epiglottis, thus assisting to close the upper aperture of the larynx in swallowing. Dissection. The remaining muscles and the vocal apparatus would be learnt better on a fresh larynx, if this can be obtained. To bring into view the deep muscles (fig. 44), it will be necessary to remove the greater part of the right ala of the thyroid cartilage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch from the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the cricoid, and the crico- thyroid muscle taken away. By dividing next the thyro-hyoid membrane attached to the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating the subjacent areolar tissue from it. By the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define inferiorly the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle ; above it, the thyro- arytenoid muscle ; and still higher, the pale fibres of the aryteno- epiglottidean and thyro-epiglottidean muscles in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. On159 INTEKNAL MUSCLES OF LARYNX. cleaning the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glands will appear above the fleshy fibres. The LATERAL CRico-ARYTENOiD MUSCLE (fig. 44,^) aHses from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the side, and is directed back- wards to be inserted into the fore part of the muscular Fig. 44.* process of the arytenoid car- tilage. It is concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle and the thyroid cartilage ; and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle. Action. It rotates inwards \ the arytenoid cartilage, op- posing the posterior crico- arytenoid muscle, and ap- proaching the one vocal cord to the other, so as to narrow the glottis. The THYRO - ARYTENOID MUSCLE (fig. 44) extends from the thyroid to the ar^^tenoid cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of its depth, and from the crico-thyroid mem- brane. The fibres are di- rected backwards with dif- ferent inclinations :—The ex- ternal C^) ascefld somewhat and are inserted into the outer border of the arytenoid cartilage horizontal, and form a thick bundle which is inserted into the margins of the vocal process and the lower part of the outer surface of that cartilage. A few of the deepest fibres of the muscle pass from the outer surface of the vocal process of the arytenoid car- tilage to be inserted into the true vocal cord. The outer surface of the miLScle is covered by the thyroid carti- lage ; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle and pouch of the larynx. Action. The thvro-arvtenoid draws forwards the arytenoid Lateral crico-aryte- noid mus- cle : The internal fibres (^) are and inner ^ ^ parts: some fibres from aryte- noid carti- lage to vocal cord; relations: * Internal muscles of the laiynx. 1. Crico-thyroid detached. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid. 3. Lateral crico-arytenoid. 4. Thyro-arytenoid, superficial part. 5. Depressor of the epiglottis, consisting of fibres of the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle and others given ofi" from the thyro-arytenoid. 6, Thyro- hyoid, cut. 8. Deep part of thyro-arytenoid.DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 160 cartilage, and causes tlie cricoid to move forwards and doAvnvvards^ thus opi^osing the crico-thvroid musclej and shortening the vocal cords. It also moves inwards the fore part of the arytenoid carti- lage with the true vocal cord, so as to place the latter in the position necessary for vocalization. The short fibres passing from the arytenoid cartilage to the vocal cord will tighten the fore part, and relax the hinder part of the cord. Tliyro- The THYRO-EPIGLOTTIDEAN MUSCLE is a thin layer which varies deafnuuseie; n^LUch in its development in different bodies. Its fibres arise from the thyroid cartilage in conjunction with the outer part of the thyro- arytenoid, and are directed upwards, covering the outer surface of the saccule of the larynx, to be inserted into the margin of the epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold with the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle. The whole of the muscular fibres passing from the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages to the epiglottis are sometimes described together as the d.epressor of the epiglottis. use. Action. This muscle draws downwards the epiglottis and aryteno- epiglottidean fold, and assists in closing the upper aperture of the larynx. Interior of CaVITY OF THE LARYNX AND PARTS INSIDE. On looking into the The cavity is cavity of the larynx from above, the tube will be seen to become constricted narrower from above downwards, owing to the projection inwards of in mi ( ( . prominent folds on each side termed the vocal cords. The lower or true vocal cords are placed on a level with the bases of the ary- tenoid cartilages, and the slit-like interval between them is called the glottis. Below this the cavity enlarges again to the lower aperture of the larynx, where it is continued into the trachea. Upper open- Up2>er aperture of the larynx (fig. 31, n). This is the orifice by J°g: which the larynx communicates with the pharynx. It is tri- form and angular in shape, with the base, which is formed by the epiglottis, ijoiiiidaries. ^^pj^^^^^ forwards and upwards. The sides, which are sloi)ed from before downwards and backwards, are formed by the aryteno-epi- glottidean folds of the mucous membrane ; and at the apex is the arytenoid muscle, with the upper ends of the arytenoid cartilages, covered by the mucous membrane. This aperture is closed by the tubercle of the epiglottis during deglutition, i.owcr open- The lower aperture of the larynx, bounded by the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, is nearly circular in form, and of the same size as the interior of the cartilage. Dissection. Dissection. To see the parts within the larynx, the tube is to be divided by a median incision along the back; but in cutting through the arytenoid muscle, let the knife be carried a little to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. Parts inside On the side wall of the larynx (fig. 45) there will now be seen aijnx. ^j^^ projecting bands of the vocal cords separated by a depression called the ventricle of the larynx. If a probe be j>assed into this hollow, it will enter a small pouch—saccuhis laryngis, by an aperture at the upper and fore part, under cover of the suj^erior vocal cord. Glottis: The glottis or rima glottidis is the narrowest part of the laryngealGLOTTIS AND LARYNGEAL POUCH. IGl cavity, and is placed on a level witli the bases of the arytenoid position, cartilages. If the cut surfaces of the back of the larynx be placed and together, it will be seen to have the form of an elongated triangle, ^^oundarics; with the base turned backwards. It is bounded on the sides by the true vocal cords (fig. 45, b) in the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and by the arytenoid cartilages (e) in the posterior third. In front, the right and left vocal cords meet at their attachment to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind, the base is formed by the arytenoid muscle. The portion of the slit between the vocal cords, being s^^Mivision. alone concerned in the production of the voice, is distinguished as tlie vocal glottis, while the part between the arytenoid cartilages is termed the respiratory glottis. The size of the glottis differs in the two sexes ; and its form ^ize and undergoes frequent changes during life, caused by the movements of ^"^"^ ^ '^"^^ ' the arytenoid cartilages and the vocal cords. In the male, the length, interval measures nearly an inch (eleven lines) from before back- wards ; in the female, from eight to nine lines. Its breadth at the andbreadtii. base is about one-third of the length. The length of the glottis is increased by the stretching, and shortened Ijy the relaxation of the vocal cords. In quiet breathing the glottis has the triangular form seen after Form during death, the space being slightly widened in inspiration, and narrowed in expiration. In forcible inspiration it becomes widely dilated, ratton the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages being directed out- forced wards, and the aperture acquiring the form of a lozenge with the "^''P^''^^*^" • posterior angle truncated. The widest part is then opposite the junction of the vocal cords with the arytenoid cartilages, and its transverse measurement is about one half of the length. During in produc- vocalization the cords and the vocal processes of the arytenoid y^c^f^ cartilages are brought together, and the vocal glottis is reduced to a narrow chink, while the hinder part of the space is closed by the meeting of the anterior borders of the arytenoid cartilages. The glottis is rendered longer, and the vocal cords are tightened Muscles pro- l)y the crico-thyroid muscles ; the opposite effect is produced by the changes in elasticity of the cords and the contraction of the thyro-arytenoid glottis, muscles. Widening of the glottis is effected by the posterior crico- arytenoid muscles ; and the cords aud arytenoid cartilages are approximated by the thyro-arytenoid, lateral crico-arytenoid, and arytenoid muscles. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 45, a) is best seen on the left Ventricle: side. It is the boat-shaped hollow between the vocal cords, the upper margin being concave, and the lower nearly straight. It is situation, lined by the mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle. In its roof, towards the front, is the aperture of the laryngeal pouch. The laryngeal pouch or sacculus laryngis (fig. 45, d), has been Pouch of laid bare partly on the right side by the removal of the ala of the ^^^^ ' thyroid cartilage, but it will be opened in the subsequent dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, about half an inch long and rather form and " position; MDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 conical in form, wliicli projects upwards between the false vocal cord and the ala of the thyroid cartilage, reaching as high as the ripper border of the latter. Its cavity communicates with the fore surrounding part of the ventricle by a somewhat narrow aperture. On the deep parts. surface of the mucous lining are numerous small glands, the ducts of which open on the inside. Its outer side is covered by the thyro - epiglottidean muscle. The size and extent of the pouch vary greatly in dif- ferent subjects. Dissection. The general shape and position of the vocal cords are evident on the left half of the larynx, but to show more fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in con- tact, and detach on the right side the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle from its cartilages. Take away in like manner the thyro-arytenoid, raising it from before back. By the removal of the last muscle an elastic membrane, crico- thyroid (fig. 47, ^'), comes into view ; and it will be seen to be continued u]3wards into, and give rise to the promi- nence of the inferior or true vocal cord. Lastly, dissect off the mucous membrane from the vocal cords on the right side, and in doing this the wall of the ventricle and saccule, which are formed mainly by this membrane, will disappear. Vocal cords: The vocal cords (fig. 45) are two bands on each side, which extend from the angle of the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilage, one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle of construe- the larynx. Each consists of a fold of the mucous membrane supported by a ligamentous structure—the superior and inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments respectively, conr^"^ The superior or false vocal cord (c) is arched with its concavity downwards, and is much softer and looser than the lower. Its free and thyro- border Is thick and rounded. The contained superior thyro- Kgament arytenoid ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, and is * Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the larynx. A. Ventricle of the larynx, b. True vocal cord. c. False vocal cord. d. Sacculus laryngis. E. Arytenoid cartilage, r. Cricoid cartilage, g. Thyroid cartilage. H. Epi- glottis. K. Crico-thyroid membrane. L. Thyro-hyoid membrane.163 TRUE VOCAL CORD. fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage near the attach- ment of the epiglottis, behind to the middle portion of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. It is continuous above with scattered fibrous bundles in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. The inferior or trm vocal cord (b) is attached in front to the angle Inferior of the thyroid cartilage about half way down below the notch, and behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. Between these points, its free margin, by the vibration of which the voice is produced, is straight, sharp and smooth. The cord projects upwards and inwards into the cavity of the larynx, and forms the boundary of the vocal portion of the glottis. It is about seven lines long in the male, and two lines less in the female. The mucous membrane of the true vocal cord is very thin, and intimately united to the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament. The latter structure is the upper and liga- eclge of the lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane, and con- sists of fine elastic tissue, which shows a slight thickening close to its attachment to the thyroid cartilage. On the outer surface of the ligament is the deep part of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, some of the fibres of which are inserted into the band ; and a thin submucous layer of elastic tissue is continued outwards from it to line the ventricle of the larynx. The mucous membrane of the larynx is continued from that lining Mucous the j)harynx, and is prolonged downwards into the trachea. At the o'nar^^nx.'^ superior aperture of the larynx it forms the aryteno-epiglottidean fold on each side, between the margin of the epiglottis and the tip of the arytenoid cartilage : here it is very loose, and the submucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the membrane lines the wall of tl;ie cavity closely, sinks into the ventricle, and sends a prolongation upwards into the laryngeal pouch. On the lower thyro-arytenoid ligaments it is very thin and closely adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the superior vocal cords, Epithelium the epithelium is of the stratified squamous kind, and free from cilia. But a columnar ciliated epithelium covers the edges of the ^^^^^ superior cords and the surface below these, though it becomes flattened without cilia on the lower cords ; on the epiglottis the epithelium is ciliated in the lower half. Numerous racemose glands are connected with tlie mucous mem- Glands, brane of the larynx ; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior asjoect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytenoid) ; and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the true vocal cords, but close to those bands is the collection of the sacculus laryngis, which moistens the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves and vessels. The termination of the laryngeal Dissection nerves may be dissected on the untouched side of the larynx. For " ^^'^v^s > this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated ii-om the cricoid cartilage, care being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies close behind the joint between the two. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down with pins ; and after theDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. thyroid lias been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx and the mucous meml^rane of the pharynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal nerve is to be found as it pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, and branches of it are to be followed to the mucous membrane of the larynx and pharynx. Two communi- cations are to be looked for between the laryngeal nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accompanies each nerve, and its offsets are to l»e dis- sected at the same time as the nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric (p. Ill) : the former is distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter mostly to the muscles. The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the larynx, furnishes backwards an offset to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; this joins filaments of the upper laryngeal. The nerve passes finally beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid. Its small muscular branches are mostly super- ficial, but that to the arytenoid muscle lies beneath the posterior crico-arytenoid. Beneath the thyroid cartilage the inferior is joined l)y a long offset of the upper laryngeal nerve. The superior laryngeal nerve (internal division) pierces the thyro- hyoid membrane, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it furnishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerve. The trunk terminates in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane ;—Some of these ascend in the aryteno-eiDiglottidean fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the inner side of the sacculus, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the true vocal cords. One branch of this set pierces the arytenoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. Tlie external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve has previously been traced to the crico-thyroid muscle (p. 111). Vessels. The arteries of the larj-nx are furnished from the superior and inferior thyroid branches (pj). 80 and 71). The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters the larynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the ejDiglottis, and the mucous membrane from the root of the tongue to the vocal cord. Like the nerves, the two laryngeal arteries communicate both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of the phar\'-nx and the posterior muscles of the larynx.165 HYOID BONE. Some other twigs from the crico-thyroid branch of the superior fi"om crico- thyroid artery perforate the crico-thyroid meiiibrane, and rainify in arteiy^ the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. Lary7igeal veins. The vein accompanying the branch of the veins superior thyroid artery joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein (p. 80) ; and the vein with the artery from the inferior thvroid opens into the plexus t)f the inferior thyroid veins (p. 120). " Tlie lymphatics of the larynx pass to the deep cervical glands. Lymphatios. Section XVII. HYOID BOiXE, CAETILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be Dissection, taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the membrane joining the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed. In the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may be recognised ; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. The HYOID BONE (tig. 46) is situate between the larynx and the Hyoid bone: root of the tongue. Kesembling the letter U placed horizontally, form; and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two lateral pieces or cornua on each side. The body (g) is elongated transversely, in which direction it body; measures about - an inch, and flattened from before back. The anterior surface is convex, and marked in the centre by a tubercle, on each side of which is an impression for muscular attachment. The posterior surface is concave and smooth. To the upper border the hyo-glossal membrane, fixing the tongue, is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side—large and small. J^^^f"^"'^* The large cornu (h) continues the bone backAvards, and is joined to ° the body by an intervening piece of cartilage, or in old persons by continuous bony union. The surfaces of this cornu look rather upwards and downwards ; and the size decreases from before back- wards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cornu (j) is and small, directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament; it is seldom Avholly ossified. It is united to the body of the bone by a synovial joint, with a surrounding capsule. Cartilages of the Larynx (fig. 46). There are four large in larynx cartilages in the larynx, by which the vocal cords are supported, fouriarge viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two arytenoid. In additionDISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. 166 and some small carti- Thyroid cartilage IS convex m front, concave behind : formed of two alse, each havin^j upper and lower cornua. Cricoid cartilage: form surfaces: there are some yellow fibro-cartilagiiions structures, viz., the epi- glottis, a capitulum to each arytenoid cartilage, and a small ovalish piece (cuneiform) in each aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The THYROID CARTILAGE (b) is the largest of all : it forms the front of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield. The upper part of the Fig- 46. *■ cartilage is considerably wide;- than the lower, and in conse- quence of this form the larynx is somewhat funnel-shaped. The fore part is prominent in the nnddle line in front, forming the subcutaneous swelling named Ijomum Adami, and concave be- hind, where it gives attachment to the epiglottis, and to the thyro - arytenoid muscles and ligaments. The ujDper border is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two squarish halves or oIce, which are united in front. Posteriorly each ala has a thick border, which is continued upwards and downwards in a rounded pro- cess or cornu (e and r). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards : of the two, the upper (e) is the longer; but the lower one (p) is the thicker, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of the ala is smooth; the outer is marked by an obli(iue line for the attach- ment of muscles, which extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, to a projection at the middle of the lower border. The CRICOID CARTILAGE (d) is stronger though smaller than the thyroid, and surrounds the lower part of the cavity of the larynx ; it is partly concealed by the thyroid cartilage, below which it is placed. It is very unequal in depth before and behind,—the posterior j^art being nearly four times as deej) as the anterior, some- thing like a signet ring. Its contained space is about as large as the fore finger. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square portion, which is marked on its posterior surface by a median ridge, between two oval depressions occupied by the posterior crico-aryte- * Hyoid bone and laryngeal cartilages, a. Body of hyoid bone. h. Large cornu. J. Small cornu. A. Epiglottis. B. Thyroid cartilage, c.c. Arytenoid cartilages, d. Cri- coid cartilage, e. Upper cornu, and f, lower cornu of thyroid cartilage.167 ARYTENOID CARTILAGES AND EPIGLOTTIS. iioicl muscles. On each side, immediately in front of tlie square part, is a slightly raised articular facet, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is horizontal, somewhat undulating, and is borders, united to the trachea by fibrous membrane. The upper Ijorder of the broad part of the cartilage is slightly excavated in the middle, and is limited on each side by a convex articular facet for the arytenoid cartilage, which slopes downwards and outwards. In front of that spot, the border descends rapidly as it passes forwards to the middle line. The two ARYTENOID CARTILAGES (c) are placed one on each side Arytenoid at the back of the larynx, on the upper border of the cricoid carti- cartilages: lage. Each is pyramidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, situation and ofiers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. ' The base has the form of an elongated triangle, with one of the base; angles (the postero-internal) rounded off. Its anterior extremity is thin and tapering, and gives attachment to the inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament, whence it is named the vocal process. The external angle is thick, and projects backwards and outwards, form- ing the muscular process, into which the crico-arytenoid muscles are inserted. On the under aspect of the muscular process is an oval, concave articular facet, sloped downwards and outwards, for the cricoid cartilage. The apex of the cartilage is directed backwards, apex; and is surmounted by the capitulum of Santorini. The inner, surface is narrow, especially above, and fiat ; it is surfaces, covered by the mucous membrane. The anterior or outer surface internal, is the largest and irregular, being convex above and concave below, anterior or It is marked near the upper end by a tubercle, and lower down, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, l)y an oblique ridge. This surface gives attachment to the superior thyro-arytenoid liga- ment and the thyro-arytenoid muscle. At its posterior asjoect the car- and tilage is concavejind smooth, being covered by the arytenoid muscle, r^stenor. Cartilages of Santorini, cornicula or capitida laryngis. At- ^"^gg^'^^jP'**' tached to the apex of each arytenoid cartilage is the small, conical Santorini. fibro-cartilage of Santorini, which is inclined backwards and inwards. The aryteno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous Fibro-carti- bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the aryteno- wrisberg. epiglottidean folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated in form, like a grain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytenoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection. These cartilages are often absent. The epiglottis (fig. 46, a) is single, and is the largest of the Epiglottis: pieces of yellow fibro-cartilage. In form it resembles an obovate forin and leaf, with the stalk below and the blade above. Its position is ^^^^ ' behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During \ respiration it is placed vertically ; but during deglutition it takes an oblique direction over the opening of the larynx.168 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. surfaces, anterior. and posterior; sides; glands in it. Ossification of: laryngeal cartilages. Ligaments of the larynx. To hyoid Ijone and trachea. Thyro-hyoid jaembrane: median and lateral parts. Lateral thyro-hyoid ligament often contains a cartilage. Relations. Crico- tracheal membrane. Between cricoid and thyroid cartilages. Crico- thyroid niembrane The anterior surface is covered in its upper part by mucous membrane, which forms the three glosso-epiglottidean folds (p. 155) between it and the tongue ; its lower. part is attached to the hyoid bone l^y fatty tissue containing glands, and by the hyo-epiglottidean ligament. The posterior surface is entirely covered by closely adherent mucous membrane, and is for the most part concave ; but at the lower end there is an elevation known as the tubercle or cushion of the epiglottis. To the sides the aryteno-epiglotticlean folds of mucous membrane are united. After the mucous membrane has been removed from the cartilage, its substance will be seen to be excavated l)y numerous pits, which lodge mucous glands. In the adult the hyaline cartilages of the larynx are commonly to a greater or less extent (in old j^ersons sometimes completely) converted into bone. The ossification begins in the thyroid and cricoid cartilages at about twenty years of age, the deposition of osseous matter in the former taking place first in the neighbourhood of the inferior corim, and thence extending along the inferior and posterior borders ; while in the cricoid two or three bony spots appear near the arytenoid articular surface on each side, ancl spread through the upper part of tlie cartilage. The arytenoid cartilages ossify later, from below ujjwards. The tendency to ossification is more marked in the male than in the female. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is connected by extrinsic ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Otlier ligaments unite together the cartilages, sometimes with joints. Union of the larynx with the hyoid hone and the trachea. A loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) extends from the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone ; and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-hyoid membrane (fig. 45, l) is attached on the one hand to the upj)er border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other to the upper border of the hyoid bone. Its central part, extending from the body of the hyoid bone to the margins of the notch in the thyroid cartilage, is of some thickness, but its lateral j)arts are thin and ill-defined. It ends behind in a rounded elastic cord on each side (lateral thyro-hyoid ligament), uniting the extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone to the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage : this band frequently contains a small cartilagmous or osseous nodule (cartilago triticea). The superior laryngeal nerve and vessels perforate the lateral part of the membrane; and a synovial bursa is placed between its central part and the posterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage to the first ring of the trachea, crico-tracheal ligament, resembles the fibrous layer joining the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of tlie cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are united by a membrane in front, and a synovial joint on each side. The crico-thyroid membrane (fig. 47, ^) occupies the space between the thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages ; and its right half is now visible. It is of a yellow colour and is formed mainly of elasticAETICULATIONS OF THE LARYNX. 169 Fig. 4/ tissue. By its lower border tlie membrane is fixed, to tbe iij^per edge of the cricoid cartilage, reaching back to the articulation with the arytenoid. Its central part is thick and strong, and is attached above to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. The lateral part is thinner, and is continued upwards l^eneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, to end in a thickened border, which is attached behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid car- tilage, constituting the inferior thyro-ary- tenoid ligament in the true vocr^l cord (p. 163). The central part of the membrane is partly exposed between the crico-thyroid muscles, and small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels into the larynx. The lateral part is separated from the thyroid cartilage by the thyro-arytenoid and lateral crico-arytenoid muscles. The deep surface of the membrane is lined by the mucous membrane. The crico-thyroid articulation is formed Ijetween the inferior cornu of the thyroid and the lateral articular facet of the cricoid cartilage. A capsular ligament, Avhich is thickest behind, and lined by synovial membrane, surrounds the articu- lation. This joint allows of a slight degree of gliding movement backwards and for- wards, and of a rotatory movement around a transverse axis, by which the front of the cricoid cartilage is raised or depressed. (See the action of the crico-thyroid and thyro-arytenoid muscles.) Crico-arytenoid articulation. Between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages there is a synovial joint surrounded by a loose capsule. To the inner side of the joint there is a well marked crico-arytenoid ligament, which passes from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage near the middle line to the adjacent part of the base of the arytenoid, and prevents the latter cartilage being drawn forwards over the cricoid. The arytenoid cartilage glides upwards and inwards, or down- wards and outwards, to a slight extent on the oblique articular facet of the cricoid ; but its principal movement is one of rotation, by which the vocal process is carried inwards and somewhat downwards, approximating the vocal cords and narrowing the glottis, or outwards and upwards, enlarging the glottis. Between the apex of the arytenoid cartilage and the capitulum * View of the vocal cords and crico-thyroid ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Ary- tenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryugis. 6. Lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane. median part, and lateral parts; elations. niovemeuts. Crico- arytenoid joint and ligament: movements, gliding and rotation. Arytenoid and capituluuj.DISSECTIOX OF THE LARYJs^X. 170 there is sometimes a synovial joint, hut tlie two cartilages are most frequently united Ly connective or fibro-cartilaginons tissue. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments have been examined with the vocal cords (pp. 162 and 163). Twoiiga- Ligaments of the epiglottis. An elastic himd.^ thyro-einglottidcan epT^^^lottis ligament, connects the lower extreiaity of the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage, close to the notch in the upper border of the latter (fig. 45) ; and a membranous layer of fibrous and elastic tissue, lujo-ejnglottidean ligament, passes between the front of the epiglottis and the hyoid bone. Coustitu- Structure of the Trachea. The Avindpipe consists of a series trachea. pieces of cartilage (fig. 43), Avhich are deficient behind, and con- nected together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the carti- lages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane and muscular fibres ; and the interior is lined by mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages: Cartilages. The pieces of cartilage vary in number from sixteen form; to twenty. Each forms about three-fourths of a ring, extending irregu- round the front and sides of the airtube. Their arrangement is not quite regular throughout, for some of them are often bifurcated at one end, or sometimes two adjacent pieces are partly fused together. The highest is commonly broader than the others, and may be joined to the cricoid cartilage. The lowest piece is triradiate, or V-shajDed, a median j)rocess being sent dowmvards and backwards in the angle between the two bronchi. Fibrous The fibrous membrane ensheaths the cartilages and, being con- lajer. tinned across the intervening spaces, binds them together. It also extends across the posterior part of the tracliea. Dissection. Dissection. On removing the fibrous membranes and the mucous glands from the interval between the cartilages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will ajDpear. After the muscular fibres have been examined the membranous part of the tube may be divided, to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular Muscular fibres. Between the ends of the cartilages is a continuous iScOc.^*^ layer of transverse bundles of imstriated muscle, which is attached to the truncated ends and the adjacent part of the inner surface of the cartilaginous hoops. By the one surface the fleshy fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and glands, and by the other with the elastic tissue. Some longitudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue. Submucous The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the trachea beneath tissue! mucous membrane ; and at the posterior part, where the carti- lages are wanting, it is gathered into strong longitudinal bundles. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. Mucous The mucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and is epithelium' furnished with a columnar ciliated epithelium. and glands. Connected with this membrane are numerous branched mucous171 LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE. glands of variable size. Tlie largest are foimcl at the back of the trachea, in the membranous part of the wall, where some are placed outside the librous layer, and others between that membrane and the muscular fibres. Smaller glands lie beneath the mucous membrane. Other small glands are found at the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartilaginous rings. The arteries of the trachea are derived from the inferior thyroid Vessels and and bronchial. The veins have a corresponding termination. Nerves are supplied to the tube from the vagus, mainly through the recur- . . rent laryngeal, and from the sympathetic. Section XYIII. PEEVERTEBRAL MUSCLES A^D YERTEBEAL VESSELS. Directions. On the piece of the spinal column which was laid aside after the separation of the pharynx from it the student is to spine, learn the deep muscles on the front of the vertebree. Dissection. The prevertebral muscles will be prepared by remov- Dissection, ing the fascia and areolar tissue. They are three in number on each side (fig. 48), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line, and the longest, is the longus colli ; the muscle external to it, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major ; and the small muscle close to the skull, which is external to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor. The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar j)rocess of the occipital bone. The LONGUS_ COLLI MUSCLE (fig. 48, a) is situate on the bodies of the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae, and is pointed above and below. It consists of three parts—one internal and two external, Longus colli which differ in the direction of their fibres, but are closely united partsT^ together. The internal part is vertical, and arises by fieshy and internal or tendinous processes from the bodies of the upper two dorsal and straight, lower two cervical vertebrae, and from the front of the transverse processes of the lower three cervical vertebrae. It is inserted by similar slips into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. The upjper external part is inclined obliquely inwards, superior It arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of'^^^'1'^*^' the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the side of the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. It is generally joined by a slip from the upper end of the vertical part of the muscle. The lower external part, also oblique, but in the and inferior opposite direction to the last, arises in common with the inner part o^^i^l^e; from the upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into tlie transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae.172 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. parts in contact with it: Rectus anticus major: origin ; insertion relations: use. Rectus anticus minor is beneath preceding use. Dissection of inter- transver- sales. Inter- transverse muscles : number and attach- ments ; relations: 111 contact with the anterior surface of the longus colli are the pharynx and oesophagus. The inner border is at some distance from the muscle of the opposite side helow, but above only the pointed anterior common ligament of the vertebra3 separates the two. The outer border is contiguous to the anterior scalenus, to the vertebral vessels, and to the rectus capitis anticus major. The number and attachments of the slips of this muscle are subject to great variation. Actio7i. Both muscles bend forwards the neck ; and the upper oblique part of one may rotate the head to the same side. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR (fig. 48, b) is external to the preceding mnscle, and is hirgest at the upper end. Its origin is by pointed tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra); and the fibres ascend to be inserted, shortly tendinous, into the basilar process of the occipital bone by the side of the pharyngeal tubercle, reaching from tlu; middle line to the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This muscle partly conceals the longus colli and rectus anticus minor. Its anterior surface is in contact wdth the pharynx, the internal and common carotid arteries, and the sympathetic nerA'e. The origin from the cervical vertebrae corresponds with that of the scalenus anticus. Action. It fiexes tlie head and the cervical portion of the spine. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR (fig. 48, g) is a small flat muscle, which arises from the front of the lateral mass of the atlas at the root of the transverse process, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone behind the last muscle, and half an inch from its fellow\ The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve emerges l^etween the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Action. It helps in bending forwards the head. Dissection. The small intertransverse muscles will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the front and back of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves, the intertransversales will be readily seen in front of and behind them. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare the vertebral artery. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES are slender fleshy slips in the intervals between the transverse processes. In the neck there are six pairs on each side—the first being between the atlas and axis. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes. The anterior primary divisions of the corresponding spinal nerves issue between these muscles ; and the posterior primary divisions lie to the inner side of the hinder muscles. Between the atlas and the occipital bone the rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent intertransverse muscles.CERVICAL NERVES. 173 Action. By approximating the transv erse processes these muscles use. bend the spinal column laterally. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal. Cervical The trunks of the cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through their'^fora- the intervertebral foramina, excejjt the first two, and bifurcate into minagive anterior and posterior primary branches. The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the inter- anterior transverse muscles, and joins in a jjlexus with its fellows (p. 72). Fig. 48.* The posterior primary branch tiiiiis to the back beneath the and pos- posterior intertransverse muscle and the otlier muscles attached to branches, the posterior transverse processes ; in its course it lies close to the bone between the articular jjrocesses of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first tivo. The first two nerves leave the spinal First two canal above the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and divide at differ: tlie back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primary branch of the first or suboccipital nerve has anterior and been examined (p. 113). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebrae, is directed forwards outside the vertebral arter}-, and between the two intertransverse muscles of the first space, to join the cervical plexus. * Deep muscles of the front of the neck and scaleni. A. Longus colli. B. Rectus capitis anticus major, c. Scalenus anticus. d. Scalenus medius. F. Scalenus posticus. G. Rectus capitis anticus minor.DISSECTION OF THE NECK 174 posterior branches. Vertebral artery in neck: relation to the nerve.s; a vein, and nerves are with it; branches. Vertebral vein : origin ; ending; branches Vertebral plexiis ot nerves. The posterior primary hranches of the first two nerves are described in the dissection of the back. The VERTEBRAL ARTERY has been seen at its origin in the lower part of the neck (p. 70) ; and its termination is described with the vessels of the brain. Entering usnally the foramen in the sixth cervical vertebra, the arter}^ ascends through the corresponding- foramina in the other vertebrae. Finally, the vessel winds back- wards round the upper articular process, and crosses the neural arch of the atlas, piercing the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and the dura mater, to enter the skull through the foramen magnum. In its course npwards the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, except the first, which crosses on the inner side. The vessel is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name. In the neck the artery furnishes small twigs to the surrounding- muscles, the s2Dinal canal, and the spinal cord. The vertebral vein begins on the neural arch of the atlas by the nnion of a considerable offset from the intraspinal venous plexuses with other branches proceeding from a network between the muscles in the suboccipital region. It is also joined by the emissary vein leaving the skull through the ^^osterior condylar foramen when that aperture is present. In the neck, the vein forms a plexus around the artery in the foramina of the transverse processes ; and it termi- nates below by emptying itself into the innominate trunk. In this course it is joined by branches from the internal and external spinal veins ; its other tributaries are noticed at p. 70. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic (p. 116). It surrounds the artery, and communicates with the spinal nerves which it crosses. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE YERTEBE.^] AND CLAVICLE. Directions. Directions. On the remaining part of the spine, the . ligaments connecting the cervical vertebrae to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cervical from the first dorsal vertebra. Then remove altogether the nniscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat from the cervical vertebrae. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. Common The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the cervical vertebrae vertebrlc^ similar to those uniting the bones in other parts of the spine, viz., an anterior and a posterior common ligament, bands betweenLIGAMENTS OF ATLAS AND AXIS. 175 the laminse and spines, capsular ligaments lined by synovial mem- brane for the articular processes, and an intervertebral disc between the bodies of the bones. Directions. The common ligaments will be best seen on the dorsal or lumbar portion of the spine, where they are more strongly elsewhere, developed ; their preparation and description will be found at the end of the thorax, with the description of the ligaments of the spine (p. 380). Should the student examine them in the neck to see their difference in this region, he should leave uncut the neural arches of the upper two vertebrae, to wliich special ligaments are attached. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebrje to each Special ligaments Fig. 49.' ^^^^ other and to the occipital bone : some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are fibrous membranes, between which connect the axis to the atlas, and the latter to the occipital ^^j.^g*])'^ bone in front and behind. Capsular ligaments also surround the and oecipi- articulations formed by these bones on each side, but they will be ^'"^^ examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. The anterior atlanto-axial ligament (fig. 49, ^) consists of a mem- Anterior branous layer attached to the anterior arch of the atlas and the body of the axis, and a superficial thickened band in the centre, prolonged atlas and from the upper end of the anterior common ligament, and connect- ing the ridge on the front of the axis to the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. The anterior occipito-atlanfal ligament (fig. 49) resembles the and between foregoing, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, ocJfjpft^f bone. * External ligaments in front between the occipital bone, atlas, and axis. (Bourgery.) 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Capsule of articulation between occipital bone and atlas, internal to which is the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament. 3. Anterior atlanto-axial. 4. Lateral articulation between the atlas and axis opened.176 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. immediately in front of the foramen magnum, to tlie anterior areli of the atlas. Its central part is also thickened, and is tixed to the tnbercle on the front of the atlas. The 2^osterior occijjifo-atlanfal ligament (lig. 50, ^) is a tliin hroad Fig. 50.* between memhraue, the deep surface of which is intimately united to the bmieand dura mater. It is attached above to the hinder margin of tlie atlas, foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and below to the posterior arch of the atlas. Behind the upper articular process of the atlas it forms an arch over the groove of the l)one in this situation, bomiding with the latter an aperture through which the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve pass. * External ligaments behind between the occipital bone, atlas, and axis. 1. Posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. 2. Posterior atlanto-axial. 3. Yer tebral artery entering beneath the occipito-atlantal ligament. t Internal ligaments between the occipital bone, atlas, and axis, first view. (Bourgery.) 1. Long occipito-axial ligament. 2. Beginning of the posterior common ligament.LONG OCCiriTO-AXIAL LIGAMENT. ■117 The posterior atlanto-axial ligament is also tliin, and adherent to and betweon the dura mater. It closes the interval between the neural arches of ax\s! '^"'^ the atlas and axis, and is pierced on each side by the second cervical nerve. The ligaments inside the spinal canal are much, stronger, and internal assist in retaining the skull in place during the rotatory and nodding bffw'-rn ^ movements of the head. Between the occipital bone and tlie second 1'"i>p«. A'ertebra are four ligaments—a long occipito-axial with a central and two lateral odontoid ; and the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the body of the atlas by a transverse l)and. Dissection (fig. 51). Supposing the neural arches of the cervical Dissection of vertebrae to be removed except in the first two, the arches of these mentl^ vertebrse are to be sawn through close to the articular processes. Next, the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the foramen magnum is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should Fitr. 52.-'- detach the tube of dura niater from the interior of the spinal canal; and, by following upwards the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, its continuation, the long occipito-axial . ligament will be exposed. The long or posterior occipnto-axial ligament (^) is a strong flat band Long which continues upwards the posterior common ligament of the vertebraj. It is broad above, where it is attaclied to the upper ligai'" surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, reaching outwards on each side as far as the insertion of the check ligaments. Descend- ing thence through the foramen magnum, and over the odontoid process, it becomes somewhat narrower, and is inserted mainly into the back of the body of the axis, but many of the superficial fibres are prolonged into the posterior common ligament. Occasionally a bursa is found between it and the transverse ligament. Dissection (fig. 52). After the removal of the long occipito-axial Dissec ligament, by cutting through it transversely above, and reflecting verse * Internal ligaments between the occipital bone, atlas, and axis, second view. (Bourgery.) 1. Check ligament. 2. Transverse ligament, sending offsets, npwards and downwards. 3. Cut end of long occipito-axial ligament. N178 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. it downwards, tlie student should define a strong band, the trans- verse ligament, which crosses the neck of the odontoid process, and sends upwards and downwards a slip to the occipital "bone, and the axis. The upper offset from the transverse ligament may be cut and odontoid through afterwards for the purpose of seeing the odontoid ligaments, ligaments, ^^j^j^^j-^ radiate from the process, the central one being a slender l)and in the middle line, and the lateral, much stronger, passing nearly horizontally outwards. Toiix The transverse ligament of the atlas (fig. 53, ^) is a strong arched ijrocess^ band behind the odontoid process, which is attached on each side to is the a, tubercle on the inner surface of the lateral mass of the atlas, below iJamenC the fore part of the upper articular process. The ligament is rounded at each end, but flattened and wider in the middle; and at this spot also named cruciform. Socket for odontoid process. Cheek ligaments. Suspensory ligament. Articular surfaces of odontoid process, and two synovial sacs. it has a band of longitudinal fibres connected with its upper and lower margins (fig. 52,^) so as to produce a cruciform figure : the upper band is inserted into the basilar process, and the lower into the body of the axis. Towards the spinal canal it is concealed by the long occipito-axial ligament. This ligament forms, with the anterior arch of the atlas, a ring (fig. 53, -) which surrounds the neck of the odontoid process of the axis, and prevents separation of the bones. Tlie lateral odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 52, are two strong bundles of fibres, attached by one end to a flat impression on each side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a rough mark on the inner surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the long occipito-axial band: their upper fibres are sliort and nearly horizontal; the lower are longer and obli(jue. The central odontoid ligament is a small median cord, which passes from the tip of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. When the transverse and odontoid ligaments have been cut through, the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilage- covered surfaces, which correspond to as many synovial sacs. One surface is on the front of the process, and articulates with the anterior arch of the atlas ; the other is the floor of the groove * Atlas v/itli tlie transverse ligament. 1. Transverse ligament Avith its offsets cut. 2. Space occupied by the odontoid process.179 MOVEMENTS OF HEAD. behind tlie neck of tlie process, and is in contact witli the transverse ligament. The posterior synovial sac is larger than the anterior. Occipito-atlantal articulations. A synovial joint is formed between Occipito- the condyle of the occipital bone and the npper articular process of articufa- the atlas on each side. Surrounding the articulation is a capsular tions are ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in jokitr^^^ front. When the joint is opened, the elliptical articular surface of articular the condyle will be seen to be convex in all directions, and to look surfaces, outwards as well as downwards. The articular cavity of the atlas has a corresponding direction, upwards and inwards, and is marked by a slight transverse groove, from which the cartilage is often wanting. Atlanto-axial articulations. Three synovial joints exist between Between the atlas and axis. The central articulation is between the anterior axis\re a arch of the atlas and the odontoid process, and has already been ^^^^J^^^'^*^^^* exposed. The lateral articulations are formed on each side by the gliding inferior articular process of the atlas and the upjDer articular joints: surface of the axis. These are united by a loose cajmile (fig. 49, ^), wliich is thickened so as to give rise to an accessory ligament at the inner and posterior aspect of the joint. The articular surface of the articular axis is somewhat convex, and is slo23ed downwards and outwards ; iat/ei\^^ while that of the atlas presents a slight transverse ridge in the middle, so that the opposed surfaces are more extensively in contact when the atlas is turned to one side, than wlien it is placed symmetrically over the axis. Movenmits of the head. The head can be bent forwards—flexion. Movements or backwards—extension ; it can be inclined towards the shoulder ?^ n M • n • 1 1 -1 • -1 • lands ot. —lateral nexion; and it can be turned to either side—rotation. Flexion and extension take place in the joints between the atlas Nodding and occipital bone ; and the range of movement is greater in the seatr'^^'^ forward than in the backward direction. Flexion is limited mainly extent, RllU Cll6CKS. by the long occipito-axial and the check ligaments; extension by the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and by the approximation of the (jccipital bone to the neural arch of the atlas. When the head is moved more freely, flexion and extension of the cervical portion of the spine also come into play. Lateral flexion is effected mainly by movement between the inclination cervical vertebrae ; but a very slight degree may be due to move- place in ^^^'^ ment having its seat in the occipito-atlantal articulations. "eck. Rotation takes place in the atlanto-axial articulations, the atlas Turning and head moving together round the pivot formed by the odontoid between"* process. The movement is stopped by the check ligaments. Less atlas and than half of the whole possible rotation of the head is obtained between the atlas and axis, the rest being made up in the neck. and in neck. Sterno-clavicular articulation (fig. 54). The articular sterno- surfaces of the two bones are not precisely adapted to each other, artrcuiation and an interarticular fibro-cartilage is placed between them. They is a com- are united by a capsular ligament; and the clavicle receives addi- P^^^^'^^J^"^^- tional support from a ligament passing to the first rib-cartilage, and another band connecting it to the bone of the opposite side. N 2DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. 180 Dissection. Dissection. For the examination of tlie liganients of the sterno- claviciiLar articulation, take the piece of the bones that was set aside for the purpose. If the ligaments have become dry, they may be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will be seen in tlie situation indicated by their names, after the removal of some connective tissue. Fibrous The Capsular ligament (tig. 54, ^) is a stout membrane surrounding tlie articular portions of the Ijones and the fibro-cartilage. Its fibres run oliliquely from the clavicle downwards and inwards to the Inter- clavicuhir. and costd clavicular ligament. sternum. The stronger parts in front and behind are described a.s the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments. The inttrclavicular ligament (fig. 54, ^) extends above the sternum, between the ends of the clavicles. The fibres dip into the hollow between the collar-bones, and are connected with the upper edge of the sternum. The costo-claricular or rltomhoid. ligament (hg. 54, ") is a short strong band of oblicpie fibres, passing from the upper surface of the cartilage of the l^irst rib to a rough mark on the under surface of the clavicle near the sternal end. In front of the ligament is the origin of the subclavius muscle. Sometimes the ligament is liollow, and contains a svnovial bursa. ■"■ Ligaments of the inner end of tlie clavicle, and of the cartilage of the second rib, 1. Capsule. 2. Costo-clavicular ligament. 3. Interclavicular liga.ment. 4. Anterior ligament of the second chondro-sternal articulation. 6. Interarticular ligament of the same joint. 7. Interarticular fibro-cartilage between the sternum and clavicle.181 STEllNO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. The interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 54, ^) will come into \'ie\v Kibi-o- by cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the clavicle, ^'^^"'^^''^se: It is ovalish in form and flattened, and is thicker at the circumference than in the centre. Its upper margin is tirnilv imited to the inner attach- end of the clavicle ; and below, it is simihirly lixed to the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it unites with the capsule of tlie joint. The hbro-cartilage is of considerable strength, and prevents the clavicle being displaced upwards or inwards. Two synovial sacs are present in the articulation, one on each side Two of the fibro-cartilage. The external one is prolonged outwards for a sacs!^^^^ Kshort distance below, between the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib. Movements. The clavicle can be moved upwards and downwards Motion in and forwards and backwards ; but the extent of movement in each directions, direction is very limited, in consequence of the shortness of the ligaments surrounding the articulation : the forward and upward movements are freer than the opposite. In llie upward and down- ward movements, the clavicle, glides on the interarticular fibro- cartilage; and when the shoulder is depressed, the inner end of the bone is raised, Avhile elevation of the shoulder is accompanied by a sinking of the inner end of the clavicle. In the forward and backward movements, the fibro-cartilage glides in the same direction over the sternal articular surface. Dislocation may take place in any direction, except downwards ; but it is of rare occurrence owing to the strength of the liiiaments.CHAPTER IL DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Section I. MEMBRANES AND VESSELS. Position of the brain. Outline of cranial mass. Medulla oblongata. Pons Varolii and its connections Cerebellum. Cerebrum, and its great divisions. Weight of brain. Three membranes. During tlie examination of the membranes, vessels, and nerves, the brain is to be placed upside down, resting in the coil of a cloth which supports it evenly. Subdivisions of the encephalon. Before the description of the membranes and vessels is given, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon may be shortly noticed. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system (tig. 64) consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, pons, and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions :— The medulla oblongata, or bulb of the spinal cord (fig. 64, a)^ lies in the groove between the halves of the small b.rain, and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii (fig. 64, d) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates a separation into halves. Above it are two large processes (crura cerebri,/) connecting it to the great brain ; and on each side it is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelli). The cerebellum (fig. 64, h), or the small brain, is separated into two hemispheres by a median groove ; and its surface is marked by concentric laminae. The cerebrum (fig. 64, r and^), or the large brain, is divided into hemispheres by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line ; and each half is further subdivided into two by a transverse cleft—the fissure of Sylvius. The surface of the hemispheres is convoluted. In the centre of the cerebrum, between the hemispheres, and in front of the pons, are several small bodies wliich will be afterwards enumerated. The average weight of the brain in the European male is about 49 oz. ; in the female about 44 oz. Membranes of the Brain. The coverings of the brain (meninges) are three in number, viz., dura mater, pia mater, and arachnoid membrane. The dura mater is a firm fibrous investment, whichARACHNOID AND PIA MATEK. 183 separates and supports different parts of the Ijrain, and serves as an internal periosteum to the cranial Loues. The pia mater is the most internal layer, and contains the ramitications of the vessels of the brain. The arachnoid, Avhich is interj^osed between the other two, is the membrane that is seen wlien the brain is removed from its cavity. Besides enveloping the brain, these membranes are prolonged on the cord into the spinal canal. Only the cranial part of the last two will be now noticed. For the description of the cranial portion Dura mater, of the dura mater, see p. 9. The ARACHNOID is a very thin fibrous membrane, whicli envelops Arachnoid the brain loosely, and is separated from the dura mater by the "'^"^ interval named the subdural space, from the pia mater by the suh- arachnoid space. Its outer surface is free and smooth, and in the natural state is in close ai:)position to the dura mater. The inner surface is attached to the pia mater by numerous fine cords and bands, which cross the subarachnoid space. Tlie membrane covers relations tlie convolutions and laminc^e of the large and small brain, bridging ^"^^^' over the sulci between them, and at the base of the brain it stretches across from side to side between the cerebral hemispheres, so as to leave a considerable space beneath it. Above, it is prolonged into tlie median fissure between the cerebral hemispheres as far as the falx cerebri, but does not reach to the bottom of the cleft. On the nerves leaving the cavity of the cranium, the arachnoid sheaths on forms tubular sheaths Avhich enter the apertures in the dura mater, "^i'^'^'* and then terminate in a free edge ; but around the vessels passing and vessels, to or from the brain, the membrane joins the dura mater. The subarachnoid space is filled by a wateiy fiuid named cerebro- ^^^^^^^^^^^ spinal. Its size varies greatly at diff'erent parts. Over the con- varies^iu^'^ volutions and prominences of the brain the arachnoid approaches e-'^tcnt .: the pia mater closely, and the interval is ver}^ small; but opposite the sulci and depressions of the surface the space is expanded. The largest cavity is between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata, three large where the arachnoid is reflected from the one to the other nmch cavities, earlier than the ^Dia mater. By an aperture in the latter membrane at this spot the subarachnoid space communicates with the cavity of the fourth ventricle. Another considerable interval exists between the cerebral hemispheres in front of the pons ; and a third extends tlie whole length of the corpus callosum, in the great longitudinal fissure. The PIA MATER closely invests the brain, following all ine(|uali- Pia mater ties of the surface, and dipping into the sulci of the cerebrum and cerebellum. It also sends a large process, named velum interpositum, forms velum into the interior of the cerebrum, and from this vascular processes pos^t^m known as choroid plexuses project into some of the ventricles of the and choroid brain. Two similar fringes, the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle, project into that cavity between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. The pia mater consists of a network of vessels, formed by the structure, ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into, or issuingDISSECTIOJ^ OF THE BRAIN. m Vess(!ls and nerves of membranes. Dissection of arteries of lai-ge brain, and of small brain. Ai'tories of the brain. Vertebral ends in basilar, winds round medulla oblongata: blanches to dura mater; to spinal ccird, p<)stecior and ; . anterior; from tlie nervous substance, tlie intervals between the vessels being closed by connective tissue so as to form a continuous membrane. From its deej) aspect minute and very numerous vessels pass into tbe brain pei-pendicularly to the surface. Vessels and nerves. The arachnoid has no vessels, but various anatomists have described minute branches of some of the cranial nerves in the membrane. The sources of the vessels of the pia mater are given below, and its nerves, which are probably destined for the vessels, come from several cranial nerves and the sympathetic. Dissection. To follow out the arteries, let the brain remain upside down, and let the arachnoid membrane be removed from them. Having displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries on the medulla oblongata, and those of the carotid near the median fissure of the large l)rain, the student should lay bare on one side the branches to the large brain. Define first the two arteries (anterior cerebral) lying in the median fissure and joining by a short branch ; next, an artery that passes outwards in the fissure of Sylvius (middle cere- bral), and pursue it to the outer surface of the hemisphere. Look then for a much smaller vessel (choroid), which sinks into the brain on the outer side of the crus cerebri. By gently raising the cere- bellum on the same side, the last artery of the cerebrum (posterior cerebral) may be traced back to the inner ^^art of the hemisphere. Two principal arteries pass to the small brain. One on the upper surface (superior cerebellar) may be brought into view with the slender fourth nerve by its side on raising the cerebellum. The other artery (inferior cerebellar) turns backwards from the vertebral to the median groove, and may be easily followed. Arteries of the Brain (fig. 55). The brain is supplied with blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The vertebral artery ('^) is a branch of the subclavian trunk (p. 70), and enters the skull through the foramen magnum; directed upwards and forwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends Avith its fellow in a common trimk (basilar) at the lower border of the l>ons. As the vessel winds round the medulla oblongata, it lies between the roots of the suboccipital and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is afterwards internal to the latter. Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termi- nation, each artery furnishes oftsets to the dura mater, to the spinal cord, and to the cerebellum. a. The posterior meningeal branch leaves the vertebral trunk oppo- site the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the cerebellar fossa of the occipital bone. b. The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the back of the medulla oblongata : it descends along the .side of the cord, behind the nerves, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. c. The anterior spinal branch (^'^) is small like the preceding, and springs from the trimk opposite the front of the bulb. It joins.the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior asj^ect. . : ; .185 VERTEBRAL AND BASILAR ARTERIES. d. Tlie inferior cerebellar artery arises from the end of the .-md to under vertebral (sonietiiiies from the basihir), and winds backwards round cerebelluni, the medulhi oblongata, between the pneunio-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, to the median groove of the cerebellum. Directed onwards in the sulcus between the hemisphere and the inferior vermiform process, the artery reaches the hinder margin of the small brain, and there anastomoses with the superior cere- bellar arter}^ An oifset of this branch ramifies over the under part of the offsets, cerebellar hemisphere, and ends externally by anastomosing with the Fig, 55.* artery of the upper surface. As the vessel passes by the side of the fourth ventricle, it gives a small choroid branch to the plexus of that cavity. The BASILAR ARTERY ("), formed by the union of the two verte- Basilar brals, reaches from the lower to the upper border of the pons, where ^^'^^^''^ '■ it ends by dividing into two branches (posterior cerebral) for the ^^^^eutand cerebrum. The vessel lies in the median groove of the pons, resting situation; against the body of the sphenoid bone. On each side of, and almost parallel to it is the sixth nerve. Branches. Besides the two terminal branches mentioned above, branches; the artery supplies transverse offsets to the -pona and the fore part of the cerebellum, and a large branch to the upper surface of the cerebellum. a. The transverse arteries of the pons are four or five small twigs, transverse. to the pons; * Arteries at the base of the brain. 1, Internal carotid trunk. 2. Anterior cerebral. 3. Anterior communicating. 4. Middle cerebral. 5. Anterior choroid. 6. Posterior communicating. 7. Posterior cerebral. 8. Superior cerebellar. 9. Auditory. 10. Inferior cerebellar. 11. Basilar. 12. Ver- tebral. 13. Anterior spinal.DISSECTIOX OF THE BRAIN. which are named from their direction, and are distri])uted to the substance of the pons. One of them (^) gives an offset {auditorij) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. h. Resembling the branches of this set is the anterior cerebellar artery: this arises from the basilar trunk, and extends to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellar hemisphere, on which it is distributed. c. The SLijjerior crehellar artery (^) is derived from the basilar so near the termination as to be often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is the npper surface of the small brain, to which it is directed backwards, winding round the criis cerebri below the third, but parallel to the fourth nerve. The ramifications of the arter}^ spread over the upper surface of the cerebellum, and anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the fold of tlie pia mater (velum interpositum) which projects into the cerebrum. d. The ])osterior cerebral artery (') takes on each side a backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the third nerve. Gaining the under surface of the cerebral hemisphere, it divides into branches {siq^erjicial or cortical) which supply the whole of the occipital lobe, and the lower and inner parts of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Its other ofi"sets are the following :—■ Numerous small long branches [dee^:) or central) leave the trunk close to its origin, and enter the posterior perforated space between the crura cerebri, to supply the optic thalami in the interior of the brain. A small choroid artery (posterior^ passes between the crus and the hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositum and choroid plexus. Near its origin it is further joined by the posterior communicating artery of the carotid. From the foregoing examination of the offsets of the vertebral arteries and the basilar trunk, it a2)pears that about half the en- cephalon—viz., the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through these branches of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerebrum. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus (p. 19) internal to the anterior clinoid process, and divides at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into cerebral and communicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid lies between the second and third nerves, but nearer the former. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives off the oj^hthalmic offset, before it ends in the following branches. a. The posteriur communicating artery (®) is generally a small vessel, which is directed backwards parallel to, and on the inner side of the third ner\'e, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basilar) near the pons.CIECLE OF WILLIS. 187 b. The anterior cerebral artery (") supplies tlie inner part of the Anterior cerebral hemisphere. It is directed forwards to the median fissure artery^^ between the halves of the large brain ; and as it is about to enter, it is united to its fellow by a short thick branch—the o??imo?-com- communicating Q). Then passing into the fissure, it bends round °' the fore part of the cor]3Us callosum, and is continued backwards along the upper surface of that body, sending its branches nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere. It is distributed as follows :— Two or three small offsets {central branches) arise near the begin- central, ning of the artery, and penetrate the anterior perforated space at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius to reach the fore part of the corpus striatum in the interior of the hemisphere. The cortical branches sujiply the fore and upper parts of the ^'^1;!^^?'^*''^^^^ internal surface of the hemisphere, extending backwards as far as the parieto-occijDital fissure ; and some turn round the margin to the adjacent portions of the frontal lobe on both the upper and lower aspects. c. The middle cerebral artery ("') is the largest branch of the ^'^^^J.^^ carotid, and ramifies over the outer surface of the hendspliere. artery: Entering the fissure of Sylvius, it divides into four or five large cortical branches, which issue from the outer side of that groove, cortica and supply the whole of the parietal lobe, together Avitli the neigh- bouring parts of the frontal and teinporo-sphenoidal lobes. A set of small central branches arises from the artery at its origin, ^""^jj^j'gg'^^^' and j)asses through the anterior j^erforated space to the grey matter of the corpus striatum. d. The choroid arterii (anterior ; ^) is small and arises either from choroid . artery. the trunk of the carotid, or from the middle cerebral artery : it passes backwards on the outer side of the posterior communicating artery, and makes its way between the hemisphere and the cms cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Willis. The arteries at the under part of the brain are ^^[j'^jg ?^ united freely both on their own side and across the middle line in an anastomotic ring—the circle of Willis. On each side this ring is formed by the trunk of the internal carotid giving forwards the vessels that anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior conmiunicating artery. "^^"^ ^ ' In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cerebrals, and the anterior communicating artery. And behind is the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the posterior cerebrals. In the area of the circle lie several bodies corresponding with the floor of the third ventricle. The com]3lete inosculation between the cranial vessels in the Use of the circle of Willis allows at all times a free circulation of blood through oSation. the brain, even though a large vessel on one side of the neck should be obstructed. Bevond the circle of Willis the arteries of the cerebrum communi- other , -.If. anastomoses cate together only by fine anastomoses. are small. The VEINS of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura mater, and veins of tiie do not form companion trunks to the arteries.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 188 Two sets to cerebrum: external, which are upper and lower: and internal. Veins of cerebellum. Dissection. Care to be taken in removing pia mator. Two sets of veins belong to tlie cerebrum, viz., superficial or external, and deep or internal. The superficial veins of the upper part of the hemisphere ascend to the superior longitudinal sinus (p. 10) ; and tliose of the lateral and under parts enter the sinuses in the base of the skull, especially the cavernous and lateral sinuses. These vessels communicate freely together. The deep veins of the cerebrum join the veins of Galen (p. 223), and reach the straight sinus (p. 13). The veins of the cerebellum end differently above and below. On the upper surface they are received by the veins of Galen and the straight sinus ; and on the lower surface they terminate in the occi- pital and lateral sinuses. Dissection. The pia mater and the vessels are now to be stripped from the l)rain, and the origin of the cranial nerves is to be care- fully defined. Over the cerebrum and pons, tlie pia mater can be detached with tolerable ease by using two pairs of forceps ; but on the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata the membrane adheres so closely as to require much care in removing it without tearing the ])rain-substance, or injuring the nerves. In clearing out the groove between the halves of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane bounding the opening into the fourth ventricle (p. 240) will be taken away : therefore the position, size, and limits of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum should be now noted. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be replaced in the spirit, but it is to be turned over occasionally, so that all the parts may be hardened. Section II. OEIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Definition. Origin is apparent and. real. Real is from grey matter. Classifica-' ' tion as nine The cranial nerves take origin from the encephalon, with one exception (spinal accessory), and pass through apertures in the wall of the cranium. The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at which it appears on the surface, for iibres or roots may be traced deeply into the brain-substance. Each nerve has therefore a superficial or appa- rent, and a deep or real origin. With respect to the superficial attachment there cannot be any doubt ; but there is much difference of opinion concerning the deep origin, in consecjuence of the difficulty of tracing the roots. When the roots are followed into the encephalon, they enter niasses of grey substance, containing nerve-cells, which are looked upon as nuclei of origin. The cranial nerves are enumerated as forming nine or twelve189 OPdGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. pairs. In tlie former classification (tliat of Willis) all the trunks or twelve entering one aperture in the skull are regarded as constituting one nerve ; and thus the facial and auditory are included in the seventh nerve, while the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and spinal acces- sory make np the eighth nerve. According to the other arrangement (Scemmering's) each trunk is considered, a separate nerve, although Snemmei- it may be associated with others in the foramen of exit. The ™u,neration classification into twelve pairs is on the whole preferable, and is the followed one more generally used. The several nerves may be designated first, second, third, and so Designation forth : this numerical mode of naming applies to all. number But a second name has been derived for some of the nerves from the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of this nomen- name of clature the terms pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal may be taken. And a different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function conferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the or functio;). terms auditory, oculomotor and olfactory express. In this way two names may be employed in referring to a nerve :—one being numerical, the other local or functional, as is exemplified below. The FIRST or olfactory nerves are about twenty fine filaments oifaetory Avhich spring from the under surface of the olfactory bulb (p. 206). They are very soft, and break ofl' close to their origin when the brain is removed from the skull. The SECOND or optic (fig. 56,-) is the largest of tlie cranial Second nerves except the fifth, and appears on the crus cerebri as a flat opt[c/^ band, which is directed inwards to join the one of the opposite side in a commissure. The part behind l!:e commissure is distinguished as the optic trad, and the name optic nerve is confined to the anterior parteaiiod portion, which is round and firm. The destination of the nerve i^ the eyeball. The optic tract is the flattened band winding round the peduncle Optic tract: of the cerebrum. In front, it ends in the commissure ; and behind, it divides into -two pieces which will be subsequently seen to take their origin from the optic thalamus, the corpora geniculata, and the origin now superior corpus <|uadrigeminum (p. 230). As the tract passes for-'^'^'^^^^^^^^' wards it is attached to the crus cerebri b}^ its outer or anterior edge; and internal to the crus it is placed between the anterior perforated relations, spot on the outer, and the tuber cinereum on the inner side : it is said to be joined here by additional fibres springing from the latter body. The commissure (chiasma) of the nerves measures nearly half an its commis- inch across, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, • within the circle of Willis. It is placed in front of the tuber cine- situation, reum ; and passing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. In the commissure each tract is resolved into three sets of fibres arrangement with the following arrangement :—The outer fibres, few in number, ''^ are continued straight to the eyeball of the same side. The middle, the most numerous, decussate with the corresponding fibres of the other tract,—those of the right tract being continued to the leftDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 190 Trunk of nerve. Origin of third nerve nerve, to the opposite eye, and vice versa. And the most internal are continued through the tract of the other side back to the brain without entering the eye. The o'ptic nerve extends from the commissure to the eyeball, and is about one inch and a half in length. It leaves the skull by the optic foramen, where it receives its sheaths from the dura mater and arachnoid. Its course in the orl)it is described on p. 47. In the eyeball it ends in the retina. The THIRD or oculomotor nerve (^) is round and firm, and is Fig. 56.* attached by a series of filaments along an oblique groove on the inner side of the cerebral j)eduncle, near the posterior perforated space, and close in front of the pons Varolii. deep in eras ' Deep origin. Tlie fibi-es of the nerve pierce the peduncle, passing through cerebri. the tegmentum (fig. 78), and enter a nucleus of grey substance in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius, f Fourth, The FOURTH or TROCHLEAR NERVE cannot be followed back- ce^eb^Uum- wards at present to its origin. It is the smallest of the cranial * Base of the brain, with origin of the cranial nerves. 1. Olfactory lobe. 2. Optic nerve. 3. Oculomotor. 4. Trochlear. 5. Trigeminal, with small and large root. 6. Abducent. 7. Facial and auditory, the former smaller and internal. 8. Glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves, in order from above downwards. 9. Roots of hypoglossal nerve. + The position of the nuclei of this and the following nerves is shown in fig. 82, on p. 241.191 ORIGIN OF CEAXIAL XEIUES. nerves, and is attaclied to tlie valve of Vieussens over the fourth ventricle (fig. 72, The nerve appears between the cerebrum and cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri, and is directed forwards to enter an aperture in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. Decj) origin. In the valve of Yiensscns the nerve crosses to the opposite nucleus in side, decussating with its fellow, and then arches round the aqueduct of floor of Sylvius to reach its nucleus in the floor of that canal, immediately below the ^yl^'iau nucleus of the third nerve. ^^^^ ' The FIFTH or trigeminal (^) is the largest of the cranial nerves, Fifth nerve and consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or j^^^^g^^'" niotor^ which are separate to beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, nearer the both issuing upper than the lower border. The small or aganglionic root is ^^"^"^ P*'"^- the higher, and is separated from the large root by one or two of the transverse bundles of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and join in the peculiar manner stated on page 18. Beep origin. The large root divides within the pons into two parts. One peep origin of these is connected with a mass of grey matter (sensory nucleus of the fifth) of large root near the floor of the fourth ventricle : the other (ascending root of the fifth ; i'|g|?|y"fa^'^'"^ fig. 63) arises from the cells of the posterior horn of the grey matter in the oblono-ata • lower part of the medulla oblongata and upper part of the spinal cord, and is directed upwards on the outer surface of the gelatinous substance of Rolando (p. 200) to join the uj^per part. The small root also has a double origin, one part springing from a special of small in nucleus (motor nucleus of the fifth) in the floor of the fourth ventricle internal pons and to the sensory nucleus,'and the other (descending root of the fifth ; fig. 78) I'^'^^-^rain. from a collection of nerve-cells on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The SIXTH NERVE C^), abducent nerve of the eyeball, springs from sixth nerve from pyramid, the outer part of the pyramidal body close to the pons, and often ^^'""^ by a second band from the lower border of the pons. Deep origin. ' The fibres of the nerve pass backwards, through the lower and nucleus part of the pons, to a nucleus in the floor of the foui-th ventricle, beneath the heneath outer part of the fasciculus teres (fig. 63). (^ntricle The SEVENTH or facial nerve (portio dura of the seventh pair, seventh Willis ;appears at the lower border of the pons, to which it is S^.a/tract closely adherent, in the depression between the upper ends of the of bulb:' olivary and restiform bodies. A small accessory Inmdle {j^ortio IXi'mediate intermedia of Wrisberg) leaves the medulla oblongata between the P'^rtion. facial and the auditory nerves, and joins the former within the iuternal auditory meatus. Deep origin. The fibres of the facial nerve pass backwards to the floor of Deep origin the fourth ventricle, and there Avind round the nucleus of the sixth nerve; to ^'om a join a group of nerve-cells lying in front and to the outer side of the latter ^OTga^part (fig. 63). Whether some of the fibres are connected with the cells of the of pons, nucleus of the sixth is uncertain. • The eighth or auditory nerve (portio mollis of the seventh Eighth nerve fromDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 192 restiform pair, Willis) has a surface attacliment outside the foregoing to the l>ody. restiform body, and to the floor of the fourth ventricle. Deep origin Deep 07'iylit. At its attacliinent to the medulla oblongata the auditory from^nner^^ nerve consists of two roots, upper and lower. The fibres of the up2')er root amrouter^ run backwards through the lowest part of the pons to the outer auditory auditory nucleus beneath the lateral angle of the fourth ventricle (fig. 63), and some nuclei. fibres are said to pass outwards to the cerebellum. The lower root is partly connected with the inner auditory nucleus, beneath the auditory tubercle in the floor of the fourth ventricle, by means of fibres passing backwards on the inner side of the restiform body ; and another part is continued superficially round the outer side of the restiform body to the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it gives rise to the auditory strife, but the central connection of these fibres is uncertain. Ninth nerve The NINTH Or GLOSSO-PHARYNGE.\L NERVE (first trunk of the below facial: gjghtli j^air, Willis) leaves the medulla oblongata by fi\Q or six fila- ments close below the facial nerve, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. nucleus in Deep origin. Directed backwards through the medulla oblongata, the floor of fibres join a nucleus beneath the inferior fovea in the floor of the fourth ^""^V, ventricle, ventricle. Tenth nerve The TENTH, VA(4U8 or PNEl irO-GASTRIC NERVE (second trunk of telowninth: ^j^^ eighth pair, Willis r^) issues by a number of filaments (twelve to fifteen) from the medulla oblongata in a line with, and below the gl osso-pharyngeal. nucleus beneath fourth ventricle. Deep origin. Taking <i similar course in the medulla oblongata to the roots of the ninth nerve, the fibres of the vagus reach their nucleus in the calamus scriptorius of the fourth ventricle. Eleventh nerve in two piei;es; accessory from medulla oblongata, spinal from cord. The ELEVENTH or SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE (third trunk of the eighth pair, Willis) consists of two parts—accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory or bnlhar part is of small size, and is formed by the union of slender filaments continuing the line of the glosso-pharyn- geal and vagus nerves along the medulla oblongata, as low as the first cervical nerve. After communicating with the spinal part in the jugular foramen, it throws itself into the vagus ner\'e outside the skull (p. 112). The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the sixth nerve, but only a small piece of it can now be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal cord as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nerve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamentum denticulatiun and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be connected ; and it enters the skull by the foramen magnum. Both from Deep origin. The fibres of both accessory and spinal parts have been one nucleus, traced inwards to an elongated column of cells i-eaching from the lower third of the olivary body to the level of the fifth cervical nerve, and situate in the spinal part of its extent in the outer pai't of the anterior horn of the greyMEDULLA OBLONGATA. 193 matter, in the medulla oblongata behind and to the outer side of the hypo- glossal nucleus. The iiintli, tenth, and eleventh nerves converge below the crus cerebelli, and rest here on a small lobe of the cerebellum (liocciilus). From that spot they are directed outwards to the jugular foramen (p. 19). The TWELFTH or HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth of Willis ; appears Twelfth on the front of the medulla oblongata, where it is attached bv a front o™"^ series of filaments (ten to fifteen) along the groove between the "{^^^^J^^^^^ pyramid and the olivary body, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which pierce the dura mater separately, and unite at the outer part of the anterior condylar foramen. Dee}) origin. The roots of the nerve can be followed through the medulla nucleus near oblongata to a nucleus, which is placed in front of the central canal below, and^fourth^^ and extends upwards into the lower part of the fasciculus teres in the fourth ventricle, ventricle. Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. The medulla oblongata and the pons are interposed between the spinal cord and the brain pro^Jer. Directions. On a single brain the student may learn nearly all Directions, the anatomy of the medulla and pons ; but if he can procure one hardened specimen of the medulla oblongata and pons united, and another of a median section through those bodies, he will comprehend much more readily the following description of them. Position. The brain is to remain in the same position as for the Position, examination of the vessels and nerves. The MEDULLA OBLONGATA or BULB is the expanded upper end of ff^^Jji^^^^. the spinal cord which is contained in the cranium. Its limits are extent tlie lower border of the pons in one direction, and the lower margin of the foramen magnum in the other. It is somewhat conical in form, and measures nearly an inch in length, half an inch in form and breadth below, and about an inch at its widest part above. Its base joins the pons, the transverse fibres of the latter marking Base, its limit; and its apex is blended with the spinal cord. The Apex, anterior surface (fig. 57) is irregularly convex, and is in contact with Surfaces, the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The opposite surface (fig. 58) is convex below, and somewhat excavated above, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle ; it rests in the groove between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. On the pos- terior aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mark the limit of the bulb. o194 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Median Tlie medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median fissure anteS front and behind, in a line with those of the cord. The anterior median fissure is interruj^ted at the lower end of the bulb by some bundles of fibres which cross obliquely from one side to the other, and constitute the decussation of the pyramids; above, it ends at the lower border of the pons in a dila- tation (foramen caecum). The pos- terior median fissure is continued upwards from the cord through the lower half of the medulla oblongata, and then terminates by the separa- tion of its lateral boundaries to form the sides of the fourth ventricle. On each half of the medulla oblongata are elongated eminences, separated by slight grooves, and continuous with the columns of the spinal cord; but they receive different names in this part of their extent, and some fresh bodies are added. Thus, the part continuing the anterior column of the cord, by the side of the anterior median fissure, is known as the pyramid (fig. 57,^). The prolongation of tlie lateral column takes the name of lateral tract ("), the position of Avhich is occupied in the upper half of the bulb by an oval eminence called the olivary body. Continuing the posterior column is the f uniculus cuneatus (fig. 58, fc), which is separated from the lateral tract by a smaller eminence to which the name of funiculus of Rolando {R) has been given : in the upper jDart of the medulla these are succeeded by the restiform body (fig. 57,^; fig. 58, rb) projecting outwards towards the cerebellum. And lastly, between the funiculus cuneatus and the posterior median fissure is the f uniculus gracilis (fig. 58,continued from the j^osterior median column of the cord. Pyramid. The pyramid (anterior) is placed between the anterior median fissure on the inner side and the lateral tract with the olivary body on the outer side. It increases in size from below upwards, whence its name; but at the upper end it is somewhat constricted and rounded just before it disappears beneath the superficial trans- verse fibres of the -pons. This body is only in small part pro- longed from the anterior column of the cord, its inner and larger portion being formed by the decussating fibres seen in the anterior median fissure. Lateral The lateral tract in the lower half of the medulla oblongata is of tract • • ' the same width as the lateral column of the cord ; but above, it is * Medulla oblongata and. pons from before. 1, Pyramid. 2. Lateral tract. 3. Restiform body. 5. Olivary body. 6. Decussation of pyramids.195 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. reduced to a narrow strip along the bottom of the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. The olivary body is oval in shape and abont half an inch long. Olive. Its npper end, which is more prominent than the lower, does not quite reach the pons. Internally it is separated from the anterior pyramid by a narrow groove along which the hypoglossal nerve arises ; and externally from the restiform body by a broader one, where the glosso- pharyngeal and vagus nerves issue. The fnniadns of Rolando l)e- gins in a pointed extremity at the lower end of the medulla oblongata, and enlarging upwards forms, on a level with the lower end of the olivary body, a slight prominence known as the tubercle of Rolando. Towards the front this funiculus is separated from the lateral tract by the con- tinuation upwards of the lateral groove of the cord ; but pos- teriorly the line of separation from the cuneate funiculus is <)^tell indistinct. The funiculus and tubercle of Rolando are better marked in the child, and the tubercle has then a greyish colour, whence the name tuberculum rinereum is also given to it. The fanicuhis cuneatus is the prolongation of the posterior column of the cord, and forms a swelling—tuberculum cuneatum (fig. 58, ct), opposite the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle. The restiform. body is the largest of the prominences of the medulla oblongata, and appears to be the continuation of the funiculus of I^olando and the funiculus cuneatus. It inclines outwards above, and enters the hemisphere of the cerebellum, of which it constitutes the inferior peduncle. On the back of the medulla oblongata, the inner margin of this body forms the lateral boundary of the lower jjart of the fourth ventricle. The funicidus gracilis (posterior pyramid) lies by the side of the posterior median fissure, and is the smallest of the parts of the medulla oblongata. It ends above in an enlargement termed the clava (fig. 58, cl), which bounds the lower point of the fourth ventricle. Cuneate funiculus and tubercle. Restiform body. Slender funiculus and clava. * Medulla oblongata and pons from behind, fy. Funiculus gracilis, cl. Clava. fc. Funiculus cuneatus. ct. Cuneate tubercle. E. Funiculus of Rolando, rb. Restiform body, a st,. Auditory strise. ft. Fasciculus teres. 0 2]96 DISSECTIO?^ OF THE ERAIN. Superllcial arciform fibres. Internal structure of medulla oblongata. On tlie anterior surface of the medulla oblongata tliere may be seen, more or less distinctly in different subjects, a set of fibres crossing transversely over the upper half of the pyramid and the olivary body. These are the superficial arciform fibres, and they pass external!}' into the restiform body. Structure. The fibres of the several columns of the spinal cord enter the medulla oblongata below, where they undergo a partial re-arrangement, and are partly continued onwards to the cerebrum and cerel^ellum, being joined by other fibres which take their origin in the Imlb, and partly end in the grey substance of the medulla oblongata. The course of the fibres can only be shown to a very small extent by dissection, and for the complete study of the Fig. 59.- arrangement of the fibres, as well as of the grey matter, it is necessary to examine sections of different parts of the medulla oblongata. Dissection Dissection. To expose the connection of the pyramid with the pyramid. spinal cord, let the student turn outwards on the left side, as in fig. 59, the small part of the anterior column of the cord that remains below the decussation (for the cord has been cut through near this), and the pyramid of the right side will then be seen to divide below into two parts, one passing directly into the anterior column, and the other crossing the median fissure and disajjpearing in the opposite half of the cord. * Superficial dissection of the medulla oblongata and pons. a. Pyramid. b. Decussation of the pyramids, c. Pyramidal fibres in the pons. d. The same in the crus cerebri, e. Superficial fibres of the pons, cut through and reflected. /. Superficial fibres of the pons, in place.197 FIBRES OF MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Pyramid and anterior column. The fibres of tlie pyramid fonii a Fibres of well-defined and independent bundle (fig. 61 a) through the whole extent of the medulla oblongata, and are continued below partly into the anterior column of the same side, and partly into the lateral column of the ojDposite half of the cord. The set of fibres keeping to tlie same side forms the outer portion of the pyramid, but in the anterior column of the cord, where it is known as the direct pyramidal direct, tract, it is placed close to the anterior median fissure. The decussating fibres are the more numerous, and pass oblirpiely and crossed, backwards, across the median fissure and behind the opposite Fi>. 60.* anterior column, to enter the lateral column, where they constitute the crossed pijramidal tract. Upwards, the fibres of the pyramid are prolonged through the pons to the crusra of the cerebral peduncle (fig. 59, c, d). The fibres of the anterior column of the cord which Rest of ^ o 5 5 / _ ... anterior are not continued into the pyramid incline backwards, and enter the coimim. reticular formation of the medulla oblongata. The decussation of the ^pyramids (fig. 59, h) occupies the anterior ^f^py^^j*|^g fissure of the medulla oblongata at a distance of three-cjuarters of an inch from the pons. It is about a quarter of an inch in length, and is generally constructed by the crossing of three or four bundles of * Deep dissection of tbe medulla oblongata, pons, and cms cerebri, a. Pyramidal fibres, cut through, and raised as far as the optic thalamus, h. Lateral tract, c. Olivary body. d. Deep longitudinal fibres in the pons, -derived from the anterior and lateral columns of the cord. e. Superficial, and/, deep transverse fibres of the pons, cut through, and partly removed. g. Substantia nigra in the crus cerebri, between the crusta and tegmentum.198 DISSECTION 0¥ THE BRAIN. vanes in extent. Dissection. Fibres of lateral tract. Direct cerebellar tract. Posterior white fibres and slender Formation of restiforiu body. Arciforin ftbres: superficial, and deep. libres from each side, bat the proportion of the pyramidal fibres which decussate in the medulla varies much in different individuals. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the deeper fibres of the medulla oblongata, the pyramid may be cut across on the right side between tlie decussation and the olivary body (fig. 60) and raised towards the pons. The lateral trad is composed of the remaining fibres of the lateral column of the cord, after the crossed pyramidal tract has been given off. Most of these pass deeply behind the olivary body, and through the reticular formation to the pons ; but one small band, the direct cerehellar trad, is continued superficially from the lateral column to the cerebellum. This band is often visible on the surface of the medulla, as a whiter streak lying along the outer edge of the lateral tract, and inclining backwards above the tubercle of Kolando to jtjin the resti- form bod\'. fv.niridi. The of the cuneate funiculi are the continuation of the posterior, and posterior median columns of the cord respectively, and are believed to end entirely in the grey nuclei of the funiculi. The funiculus of Eolando has only a very thin superficial white hn er, which is also derived from the pos- terior column. The restiform body is formed mainly by the arciform fibres of the medulla, with the direct cerebellar tract from the lateral column of the cord. Arciform fibres. In the upper half of the medulla oblongata, covering its anterior surface and traversing its substance, is an extensive system of fibres, curving outwards and backwards from the median plane to the restiform body, to which this name has been given, l^ho, superficial arciform fibres {ii^. 61, i") have already been noticed in the description of the exterior of the medulla oblongata (p. 196). The deep arciform fibres (li) are more numerous, and are seen over the whole area of transverse sections except in the pyramid. Some of fliem come to the surface on the * Transverse section of the medulla ohlongata at the lower part of the fourth ventricle (Clarke), a. Pyramid, h. Olivary body. c. Tubercle of Eolando. d. Hestiform body. e. Lateral boundary of fourth ventricle. /. White core of the olivary body, with the roots of the hypoglossal nerve to its inner side. ff. Olivary peduncle, h. Deep arciform fibres entering the raphe (a few more are added from a second drawing), k.l. Reticular formation. 'II. Floor of fourth ventricle, o. Hypoglossal nucleus. j>. Grlosso-pharyngeal nucleus. r. Inner auditory nucleus. s. Superficial arciform fibres. t. Remains of the gelatinous substance.199 STRUCTURE OF MEDULLA OBLONGATA. inner side of, and through the olivary body, and join the super- ficial set. Others are deep in their whole extent, and pass outwards into the restiform body, and to the nuclei of the cuneate and slender funiculi. Internally, the arciform fibres enter the i-aphe, through which they are continued to the opposite half of the bulb. There they are thought to become longitudinal, but of their farther course nothing certain is known. The rajphe (fig. 61, between li and 1) occupies the median plane Raphe, of the medulla oblongata above the decussation of the pyramids, and consists of fibres running obliquely, longitudinally, and from before backwards, which are in part continuous with the superficial and deep arciform fibres, and in part spring from the nuclei in the fioor of the fourth ventricle. Formatio reticularis. In the dorsal portion of the medulla i^eticulai oblongata, beliind the pyramid and olivary body (fig. 61, ^ and k), * the longitudinal fibres derived from the anterior and lateral columns of the cord, decussating with the deep arciform fibres, give rise to a structure that is known as the reticular formation of the bulb In the part of the reticular formation behind the olivary body (/.') inter- spersed grey matter containing nerve-cells is also present. Olivary body (^g. 61,/). On removing a thin slice from the Olivaiy olivary body, it will be seen to consist of three parts, viz., an^'^'^^' external investment of white substance, a thin grey layer—-the olivary nucleus, and a central white core. The outer white layer consists mainly of trnnsverse fibres, which belong to the superficial arciform group. The olivary nucleus or corpus clentatum a thin plaited capsule its nucleus, or bag, having a zigzag outline in section. Towards the surface and behind it is closed, but on the inner side it is open, fornung a narrow neck, which is turned towards tiie raphe, and gives I)assage to the olivary peduncle. The central white matter fills the grey capsule, and is formed by the spreading out of a tract of white fibres called the olivary and peduncle, which passes inwards through the opening in the nucleus i'®'^^^"^'*^- to the raphe. The fibres of the peduncle partly terminate in the cells of the corpus dentatum, and are partly continued through the grey layer to join the arciform fibres. Grey matter of the medulla oblongata. The larger part of the grey Grey matter matter in the bulb is a continuation of that of the cord, but there are in. addition some smaller independent masses. Prolongation of grey matter of the spinal cord. At the lower end prolonged of the medulla oblongata the central grey matter resembles that in ^'^"^ " the.spinal cord (fig. 140), but as it extends upwards it undergoes the following changes :— The anterior cornu is broken up by the passage through it of the Changes in fibres of the crossed pyramidal tract, and the detached extremity of hon"^^ the horn is continued upwards in the lateral tract for some distance as the lateral nucleus. The posterior cornu is pushed outwards by the increasing in posterior development of the slender and cuneate funiculi, audits extremity200 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. and in commissure. Special grey masses. Pons: l)Osition, form, surfaces, borders, and sides. It consists of ventral and dorsal jiortions. Dissection to expose the fibres. (caput), consisting of tlie substantia gelatinosa of Rolando, becomes greatly enlarged and approaches tlie surface, giving rise to tlie funiculus and tubercle of Rolando (fig. 61, c). From tlie base of the horn, processes of the grey matter extend backwards into the slender and cuneate funiculi, and are known as the nuclei of those bodies. They are largest in the neighbourhood of the lower end of the fourth ventricle, where they cause the swellings which have been described above as the clava and cuneate tubercle (p. 195). By the opening out of the posterior median fissure and central canal of the cord to form the fourth ventricle, the anterior jDortion of the grey commissure and the bases of the anterior horns are exposed, constituting the grey layer in the floor of that cavity. Special deposits of grey matter. These are the olivary nucleus, which has just been examined, some groups of nerve-cells at the back of the medulla oblongata forming nuclei of origin for several cranial nerves, which will be noticed in connection with the anatomy of the fourth ventricle, and a few small masses of grey substance on the front of the medulla beneath the superficial arciform fibres (nuclei arciformes). Pons Varolii. The PONS VxkROLii (annular protuberance ; fig. 57) is situate above the medulla ol^longata, and between the hemispheres of the cere- l)ellum. In its natural position in the skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelli, resting against the hinder part of the body of the sphenoid bone. It is nearly of a square shape, tliough it is I'atlier wider from side to side, in which direction it measures about an inch and a half. The anterior surface is convex and prominent on each side, but marked along the middle line by a groove in which the basilar artery lies. By the opposite surface the pons forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The uj)per border Is the longer, and arches over the crura cerebri. The lower border is nearly straight, and projects above the medulla oblongata. On each side the pons is continued into the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and the fifth nerve issues at tlie junction of the two. Structure. The ventral or anterior half of the pons consists (jf transverse fibres which are in part of their extent divided into two layers by the prolongation uj)wards of the fibres of the pyramids of the medulla oblongata. The dorsal or posterior half is a continua- tion of the reticular formation, with the grey layer of the floor of the fourth ventricle, from the medulla oblongata. Dissection. The superficial transverse fibres of the pons being divided along the line of the pyramid of the right side (fig. 59) may be turned outwards so as to denude the longitudinal fibres (c) of that body ; and this set of longitudinal fibres, having been cut across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as far as the upper border of the pons. Beneath them wall appear the second or deep set of transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 60, f).201 STEUCTQRE OF PONS. Tlie deep transverse fibres may next be cut tliroiigh outside the pyramidal tract (fig. 60), and the reticuhir formation will then be seen, in which deep longitudinal fibres ascend from the medulla oblongata (fig. 60, d). The transverse fibres of the ventral portion of the pons are derived Transverse from the crus or middle peduncle of the cerebellum. They are veSraf mostly collected into two layers, superficial and deep (fig. 62), portion, which enclose tlie k)ngitudinal filn-es of the pyramid ; but some transverse fibres pass between the bundles of the pyramidal tract. The superficial fibres are nearly horizontal in the lower part of the pons, but the upper ones descend to join the cerebellar peduncle, and some are S(M'n on tlie surface crossing obliquely over the lower fibres. The pyramidal fihres (fig. 62 ; 63,|>;/r.?>) enter the pons below as a Pyramidal tract in pons. Fig. 62.* single mass, Imt in tlieir passage upwards through the pons they are broken up by decussating bundles of transverse fibres. Much in- creased in number, they emerge at the upper border of the pons, and are continued into the superficial j^ortion (crusta) of the crus cerebri. Scattered amonost tlie transverse fibres are numerous small Grey matter masses of grey matter (nuclei pontis) ; and fibres entering the jDons fibres, by one cerebellar peduncle are believed to cross to the other side, Supposed and there join nerve-cells in these nuclei, from which other fibres fl^H^ take origin, and ascend with the fibres of the pyramid to the crus cerebri. The reticular formation of the pons (fig. 62) is formed of longi- Formatiq tudinal fibres continued from the medulla oblongata (p. 199), and'^^*'^*'"'*"^* passing upwards to the deep portion (tegmentum) of the crus cerebri (fig. 60, d), decussating with transverse fibres which are derived from the dorsal grey layer. It contains much interspersed grey * Diagram of a transverse section through the lower part of the pons, show- ing its chief constituents.DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. 202 matter ; and near the floor of the fourth ventricle there are several nerve-nuclei, which will be referred to Avhen that cavity is described. Raphe. In the dorsal portion of the pons, as in the medulla oblongata, there is a median raijhe (fig. 63, ra), formed mainly by the transverse fibres changing their direction as they cross the middle line. Superior There is farther in the lower T)art of the pons, close behind the olive. ^ ^ Fig, 63.* nvmo deep transverse fibres of the ventral portion, and occuj)ying a position immediately above the olivary body, a small collection of grey matter to which the name of svi)erior olivary nudevs is given (fig. 63, Son). Section IY. DISSECTION OF THE CEEEBRUM. Situation The CEREBRUM, or great brain, the largest of the subdivisions of cerebrum. encephalon, fills the upper part of the cranial cavity, and occupies the anterior and middle fossse of the base of the skull. Its hinder part rests on the tentorium, which separates it from the cere- bellum. Its lower limit would be indicated on the surface of the * Transverse section of the lower part of the pons (after Obersteiner). ra. Raphe, ipc. Inferior peduncle of cerebellum, stf. Superficial transverse fibres, pyr.b. Pyramidal bundles, dtf. Deep transverse fibres, Ji. Fillet. Son. Superior olivary nucleus. Fix. Ascending root of fifth, nerve. VI. Sixth nerve. »F7. Its nucleus. F//. Seventh nerve. tiF//. Its nucleus. VIII. Upper root of auditory nerve. nVIIIo. Outer auditory nucleus.203 BASE OF CEREBRUM. head by a line from tlie eyebrow to tlie articulation of tlie jaw, and from tills point to tlie external occipital 2:)rotuberance. Taking the geneial form of the cranial cavity, the cerebrum is Form, convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower. It consists of Uxo hemispheres, which are placed side by side, and separated in Two hemi- the greater part of their extent by a median longitudinal fissure. In -'^P^^^^'^^' their lower half the hemispheres are united by some commissures, as j^^^?*^^ well as by several connecting parts at the under surface. The under parts, part oi' each hemisphere is divided into two by a deep transverse cleft—tlie fissure of Sylvius. U^y'DER Surface or Base op the Cerebrum (tig. 64). The Under under surface of the cerebrum is irregulai, in consetjuence of its cerebrum, fitting into inequalities in the base of the skull ; and on this aspect tlie separation into hemispheres is not so complete as on the upper, for the median fissure exists only at the front and l)ack. The following objects are to be recognised at the centre of the base of the brain :— Immediately in front of the pons (d) are two large white masses, Enumera- tlie peduncles of the cerebrum or crura cerehri (/), one belonging to ceiltral each liemisphere ; and between them is a small area perforated l)y P^^t^- vessels, which is named the posterior perforated space (g). Crossing the peduncle is the optic tract; and between it and the inner pai't of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. In front of the posterior perforated space are seen two rounded white bodies—the corpora alhicantia (e) ; and then a prominent greyish mass, called tuber cinereum (h). From the tuber cinereum a conical process, the i^ifundibulum, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to the tuber cinereum are the converging oi)tic tracts Avith their commissure (i). In front of the commissure lies a thin greyish layer—lamina cinerea {m) ; and still farther forwards is the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum [n) in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the Sylvian fissure is a depression termed the vallecula Sylvii (l), at the bottom of Avhicli is seen another spot j>erforated by vessels—the anterior perforated space. Lastly, in front of the anterior perforated space, and resting on J^^^g*'*"^^' the surface of the frontal lobe of the cerebral hemisphere, is tlie elongated process of the brain (o) named olfactory lobe, from which the olfactory nerve-filaments spring. This process is frequently called the olfactory nerve, but its true nature as a lobe of the cerebrum is shown by its position and structure, as well as l)y its condition in the lower animals, in which it is generally of large ' ■ size. Peduncle of the cerebrum or cRuy cerebri (/). This is a crus large, white, stalk-like body, which reaches from the upper border cerebri, of the jjons to the under part of the cerebral hemisphere of the same side, near the inner margin. In the natural position the two peduncles occupy the opening in the tentorium cerebelli. Each is about three-quarters of an inch long, and widens as it approaches theDISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. 204 cerebrum. Crossing its anterior surface is tlie optic tract; and between tbe crura of opposite sides is the interpeduncular space^ which contains the posterior perforated space, the corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereum with the infundibulum. Composed of Structure. The peduncle consists of a superficial layer of white tiiree parts. f^\^y.Q^^ ^^j^g crusta, continued from the longitudinal fibres of the pons, a prolongation of the reticular formation termed the tegmentum, and an intermediate stratum of grey matter—the substantia nvjra. Dissection, Dissedion. For the purpose of showing the structure of the crus Fig. 64.* on the right side (fig. 60), the optic tract should be divided, and the fibres continuous with the pyramid of the medulla oblongata should be raised as far as the junction of the crus with the hemisphere. In this proceeding the substantia nigra (g) will appear ; and beneath it will be seen the tegmentum. Ci'usta. The crusta is composed of coarse bundles of white fibres, ascending * Under surface of the brain, a. Medulla oblongata, b. Hemisphere of cerebellum, c. Flocculus, d. Pons. e. Corpus albicans. /. Crus cerebri. g. Posterior perforated space, k. Tuber cinereum. {. Optic commissure. L Vallecula Sylvii and anterior perforated space, m. Lamina cinerea. n. Rostrum of corpus callosum : on each side of m, is a narrow white band—the peduncle of the corpus callosum. o. Olfactory bulb. p. Frontal lobe of the cerebral hemisphere, r. Temporo-sphenoidal lobe, separated from the fore- going by the fissure of Sylvius.CRUS CEREBlil. 2O5 from the pons (fig. 59, c) to the cerebral hemispliere, where they enter a layer of white fibres termed the internal capsule, which will be siil)se(xuently seen. The continuation of the pyramidal fibres of the mi-dulla oblongata (pyramidal tract) occupies the central part only of the crusta ; and the lateral parts consist of fibres which have l)een added in the pons. Those on the inner side pass to the frontal lobe of the hemisphere, while the outer ones are destined for the occipital and temporo-sphenoidal lol)e8. The substantia yiigra (fig. 60, g; fig. 65) is a layer of dark grey Substantia matter which separates the crusta from the tegmentum. In trans- verse sections it is seen to be convex towards tlie crusta, and thicker at the inner than at the outer side. The tegmentum is united internally with the like structure of the Tegmentum, opposite side below ; but above, tlie two are separated by the grey matter of the posterior perforated space. It consists of a reticular formation continuous with that of the ])ons, together with a con- Fig. 65.* nf. cfuad. bodij ac^uccluo^ cf Syluius /""^X lamina tjuadn'fjfcmina grcj matter of / - J^.^ aqueciuct-—-h^r^— cerebellum / V V ' -J ^ T S 1, - sidej'able bundle of fibres derived from the cerebellum (superior peduncle of the cerebellum), in coimection with which there is a roundish mass of grey substance named tlie nucleus of the tegmentum or red nucleus (fig. 78). Above, the tegmentum joins the under surface of the optic thalamus. The POSTERIOR PERFORATED SPACE (hg. 64, g) is situate in the Posterior depression between the crura cerebri. The bottom of this hollow is formed by a layer of grey matter, which is perforated by the central branches of the posterior cerebral arteries. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The CORPORA ALBICANTIA (corp. mamillaria ; e) are two round Corpora white bodies, about the size of small peas, which are constructed in' ^^'^ greater part by the crura of the fornix. If, one, say the right, is cut across, it will be seen to contain gre}^ matter. The TUBER ciNEREUM (Ji) is a portion of the thin grey layer forming Tuber the floor of the third ventricle, which is continuous behind with the «mereum grey matter of the posterior perforated space, and in front, above the optic commissure, with the lamina cinerea. It is convex on the surface, and is prolonged at its fore part into the following body. The INFUNDIBULUM is a funnel-shaped tube which reaches from and in- the tuber cinereum to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. It * Transverse section of the lower part of the midbrain.mSSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Pituitary body : situation; two lobes. Dissection. Grey lamina, <Jor})Us callosuni ends below in two bands, and extends into hemi- sphere. Vallecula Sylvii. Anterior perforated space. Olfactoiy lobe lies in olfactory sulcus. Olfactory bulb.' consists of a layer of grey matter ; and its cavity is a j^art of the third ventricle. In the ffctus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed below. The PITUITARY BODY will be very imperfectly seen when it has been dislodged from its resting place: it should therefore be examined when o]>portunity offers in the base of the skull by removing the surrounding bone. Its use is unknown. It is situate in the hollow of the sella Turcica on the sphenoid bone, and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the larger, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In the adult this body is solid and firm in texture ; but in the ftetus it is hollow, and the posterior lobe opens into the third ventricle through the infundibulum. Dissection. To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior end of the corpus callosum, tlie hemispheres are to be gently separated from each other in front. The LAMINA CINEREA (m) is a thin concave layer of grey suIj- stance, which gradually tapers upwards from the tuber cinereum to the termination of the corpus callosum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated space. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken throuoh in removing the brain. The CORPUS CALLOSUM (n), bent downwards in front, is continued horizontally backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina cinerea, and ends by two white narrow bands—the 'peduncles of the corpus callosum, which are continued along the edge of the lamina cinerea on each side to the anterior perforated spot. The anterior bend of the corpus callosum is known as the genu (fig. 69), and to the prolonged central part the name rostrum is given. Laterally this part of the corpus callosum reaches into the frontal lobe, and forms part of the floor of the lateral ventricle. Vallecula Sylvii and anterior perforated space. The vallecula Sylvii is a depression between the optic commissure and the fore part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the hemisphere, which lodges the upper end of the internal carotid artery. Externally it leads into the Sylvian fissure, and in front it is bounded hj the diverging roots of the olfactory tract. The floor of the fossa is formed by a layer of grey matter which is perforated by the central branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, thus giving rise to the anterior perforated space. The grey substance is con- tinuous above with the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum. The olfactory lobe consists of an elongated nerve-like part which is named the olfactory tract, and a terminal expansion in front—the olfactory bulb. It lies in a groove (olfactory sulcus ; fig. 67, ol) on the surface of tlie inner orbital convolution of the frontal lobe of the hemisphere. The olfactory bulb (fig. 64, o) is an oval mass, of a greyish colour, and nearly half an inch in length, which rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. From its under surface the olfactory nerves arise.207 UPPEE SURFACE OF CEREBRUM. The olfactory tract i.s a prismatic band, aljotit an incli long, the Olfactory upper edge of which h received into the olfactory sulcus. It is ^^^^^' attached by its base, where it is somewhat expanded, to the frontal lobe close in front of the anterior perforated space ; and from this part two diverging white streaks, the roots of the olfactory tract or roots, outer olfactory strke, proceed to neighbouring convolutions. The external root passes along the outer margin of the anterior perforated space, and across the beginning of the Sylvian fissure, to the anterior extremity of the uncinate convolution in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The internal root, not always visible, bends inwards, and and inner, joins the lower end of the callosal convolution. By raising the olfactory lobe from its sulcus, the dorsal riclge will be seen to Olfactory become enlarged at its posterior end, forming the olfactory tubercle, ^^^^^^cie. Position of the part. ISTow that the base of the cerebrum has been Position of studied, the brain should be turned over for the examination of the upper jiart. Something should then be placed beneath the fore part, upper part, in order that it may be raised to the same level as the back ; and a rolled-up cloth should lo(jsely encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Upper Surface of the Cerebrum. Viewed from above, the cerebrum is cerelirum is ovoidal in form, and the upper surface is convex in convex a-DOVG ciud accordance with the shape of the skull. A riiedicm longitndinal fissure divides tlie cerebrum incompletely divided into into halves. At the front and back the hemispheres are quite ^^i^n^ separated by it ; but at the middle and under parts they are united fissure by connecting bodies, the largest of wliich is the white corpus callosum. In the lissure the falx cerebri is lodged. Each hemisphere is larger in front than behind, although the Hemispiioi e greatest breadth of the cereljrum is placed behind tlie middle. Its outer surface is convex and applied to the skull ; the inner is flat and rests against the falx cerebri. The surface of the hemisphere grey on consists of grey matter (cortex of the cerebrum), and is marked by ^'^''^f^'^' . 1 , mi . marked by tortuous eminences separated by grooves. The eminences are named convoiu- convolutio7is or gyri; the grooves are furrows or sulci. furrows*^ The sulci of the cerebrum are of two kinds. The greater number Furrows are are superficial depressions which carry inwards the grey cortex and incomplete only indent the central white substance ; but a few penetrate more deeply, and these are the result of folds involving the whole thick- and ness of both grey and white substance, so as to affect the form of ^^^^P^^*^- the cavity (lateral ventricle) contained within the liemisiDhere, or give rise to eminences projecting on its wall. The sulci of the ■ latter group are distinguished as fissures. The convolutions and sulci, especially the smaller ones, vary in Convolu- different brains, and they are not exactly alike even in the two 1,^^^^ hemispheres of the same cerebrum. Their general arrangement or plan is, however, constant, and there will seldom be much difficulty plan is in recognizing the several parts referred to in the following de- ^^i^o^i^- scription. Interlobar Sulci and Lobes of the Hemisphere. The outer Division of surface of the hemisphere is divided into regions, or groups of con- gphere!^^'208 DISSECTION OF THE BRXm. volutions, known as the lobes of tlie cerebrum, by means of some of the most constant sulci, aided by lines prolonged from these. The interlobar sulci are three in number, viz, :— Sylvian The fissure of Sylvius (fig. 66, s) begins at the vallecula Sylvii, ^ ""^^ whence it extends transversely outwards across the under surface of the hemisphere, separating the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes has three (fig, 64), As soon as it reaches the outer surface, it gives off one blanches. gu^^all branch forwards (anterior ; tig. 66, s), and another upwards (rt.sce?2t/M/r/;-s'"), which project into the inferior frontal convolution. and is then continued backwards as the posterior branch (s'") through about the middle third of the hemisphere. The posterior branch separates the temporo-sphenoidal from the frontal and parietal lobes ; it ascends somewhat as it runs backwards ; and at its termination it is bent upwards for a short distance and j^rojects into the parietal lobe. Position in When the brain is in the skull, the place of division of the fissure bones'of*^ of Sylvius is opposite the articulation of the great wing of the head. sphenoid with the parietal bone. * Sulci and convolutions of the outer surface of the hemisphere. Sulci : ,s. Fissure of Sylvius ; s', its anterior, s", its ascending, and s'", its posterior branch. r. Furrow of Rolando, jjo. Parieto-occipital fissure. sf. Superior, and if. Inferior frontal sulcus, pr. c. Prsecentral sulcus, ip. Intraparietal. pt. c. Postcentral, cm. End of calloso-marginal sulcus. St. Superior temporo-sphenoidal or parallel, and mt. Middle temporo- sphenoidal sulcus. Convolutions: sr. Superior, MP. Middle, and if. Inferior frontal, af. Ascending frontal, ap. Ascending parietal, spl. Superior parietal lobule. SM. Supramarginal convolution. Ang. Angular, so. Superior, mo. Middle, and 10. Inferior occipital. ST. Superior, mt. Middle, and it. Inferior temporo- sphenoidal.LOBES OF CEl^EBRAL HEMISPHEEE. 209 The furroiv of Rolando (central sulcus ; fig. 66, r) crosses tlie outer Sulcus of surface of the hemisphere near the middle. Beginning above close ^^^'^^'^^o to the margin of tht; great longitudinal fissure, the furrow runs downwards and somewhat forwards, with a serpentine course, to end about one inch behind the place of division of the Sylvian fissure, and very near to its posterior lind). This sulcus is used to separate the frontal from the parietal lobe. The upper end "of the furrow of Eolando is placed from an incli- i« behind and-a-half to two inches, the lower end about one inch behind the suture.^ coronal suture. jMrieto-ocxipital fissure (fig. 68, j9o) is a deep sulcus at the Parieto- liinder j^art of the inner surface of the hemisphere. Its upper end ||!^^ure-"^ appears on the superior surface of the cerebrum about midway between the preceding sulcus and the posterior extremity of the liemisphere, and extends outwards for nearly an inch from the margin of the longitudinal fissure (fig. 66, //o). It indicates the anterior limit of the occipital lobe. The jjarieto-occipital fissure is placed o})posite the summit of the situHtiun. lambdoid suture. Lobes. The outer surface of the hemispliere is divided into five Lobes of lobes (excluding the olfactory) which have the following names and ^"""'"l'^"^'''^- limits :— The frontal lobe forms the anterior half of the hemisphere. It is Frontal Mn limited below by the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius ^ • (fig. 66, and behind by the furrow of Eolando (r). Its under part, wliich rests on the roof of the orbit, is named the orbital oi-bital lobuie. The 2)arietal lobe is little more than half the size of the frontal. I'aiietal Its anterior limit is the furrow of Eolando (?'), and its posterior a line drawn transversely over the hemisphere from the parieto-occipital fissure. Below, it is bounded in its fore part by the posterior boundaries branch of the figsure of Sylvius (/"), and in its hinder part l)y a pait"^ line extending from the spot where this sulcus turns upwards to the artiiiciui. posterior extremity of the liemisphere. Its convolutions are con- tinuous with those of the occipital lobe behind, and of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe below. The occipital lobe is small, and triangular in shape. It is separated j^^^'^'^''*^^ from the j)arietal lobe for a short distance above by the parieto- occipital fissure (po) ; but its anterior boundary is for the most part artificial, being constituted by a line continuing the direction of that fissure across the outer surface of the hemisphere. Its convolutions join those of the parietal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. The temporo-sphenoidal lobe projects into the middle fossa of the Tempon.- base of the skull. Its fore part is separated from the frontal and S',"'"""'''^' ])arietal lobes by the fissure of Sylvius, but its hinder part is only limited by the lines above mentioned, across which its con- volutions pass into those of the parietal and occipital lobes. The central lobe, insula, or island of Eeil (fig. 67, c), is placed at the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and is concealed by the over- i^und of lapping of the temporo-sphenoidal, parietal and frontal lobes. If theDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. surrounded by three sulci of Reil, Frontal con- volutions : transvei'se; superior, margins of the Sylvian fissure be drawn asunder, it will be seen to have a triangular form, with the apex directed downwards towards the anterior ])erforated space, and to be bounded by three furrows, the sulci of Reil (ar, er, and pr), the hinder of which is continuous with the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius. The central lobe is placed opposite the corpus stria- tum in the interior of the hemisphere. To the portions of the frontal and parietal lobes which are placed between the ascending and posterior branches of the fissure of Sylvius (fig. 66, between s" and s"), and cover the upper part of the central lobe, the name operculum of the insula is given (fig. 67). Sulci and convolu- tions OF THE FRONTAL LOBE. On the outer surface of the frontal lobe there are four convolutions, sepa- rated by three sulci. The prcecentral sulcus (fig. 66, pr c) is placed in front of, and nearly parallel to, the lower half of the furrow of Rolando. From it the inferior frontal sulcus {if) runs forwards and downwards, towards the orbital surface of the lobe. Above this, the superior frontal sulcus (sf), which is often inter- rupted once or twice by cross gyri, takes a similar course. The ccscencling frontal convolution (af) is sinq^le, and forms the hindmost part of the frontal lobe, extending from the upper margin of the hemisphere to the Sylvian fissure, along the front of the furrow of Rolando. From its fore part the three longitudinal convolutions of this lobe take their origin. The siqjerior frontal convolution (sf) is longer and broader than the others, and is commonly much subdivided into secondary gyri. It lies between the margin of the hemisphere and the upper frontal sulcus. * Orbital lobule and central lobe. orb. Orbital sulcus. ol. Olfactory sulcus, ar. Anterior, er. External, and pr. Posterior sulci of Eeil, the last opened by the removal of the teraporo-sphenoidal lobe. lo. Internal, AO. Anterior, and PO. Posterior orbital convolutions, c. Central lobe or island of Eeil. if, af, and ap. Lower parts of the inferior frontal, ascending frontal, and ascending parietal gyri, constituting the operculum, aps. An- terior pei'forated space.211 PAEIETAL CONVOLUTIONS. The middle frontal convolution (mf) rims from the ascending middle, frontal to the h)wer margin of the lobe, between the upper and lower frontal sulci. The inferior frontal convolution (if) is the smallest of all. Spring- and inferior angfroni the lower end of the ascending frontal convolution, it arches tudfnal. round the ascending and anterior branches of the Sylvian fissure, and passes into the posterior orl)ital gyrus. Orbital lobule (fig. 67). The orbital lobule is subdivided by a Y or H-shaped orbital sulcus (orb) into three convolutions, named orbital internal (lo), anterior (ao), and posterior (po) orbital, which are sulcus and the continuation respectively of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions. On the internal orljital convolution is a longitudinal groove—olfactory sulcus (ol), for the reception of the Olfactory olfactory lobe. Sulci and convolutions of the parietal lobe. In the parietai parietal lobe there are two named sulci ; and four convolutions are '""^ distinguished. The intra'parietal sulcus (fig. 66, ip) begins close to the posterior intrapnrietai branch of the fissure of Sylvius, al^out midway between the up- turned extremity of this and the lower end of the furrow of Eolando. It first ascends, running nearly j^arallel to the lower half of the latter sulcus, and then is directed backwards to the hinder limit of the parietal lobe, where it often becomes continuous with the superior •occipital sulcus. The upper part of the intraparietal furrow is frequently interrupted by one or two cross gyri. The postcentral sulcus (jitc) continues the direction of the ascending and post- stage of the intraparietal sulcus behind the upper half of the furrow of Rolando. It generally opens into the intra]3arietal sulcus at the spot where the latter changes its direction. The ascending parietal convolution (ap) is placed op})Osite the as- Convolu- cending frontal, and like that is simj)le, and extends from the upper aseending margin of the'hemisphere to the posterior branch of the Sylvian P*^^"^^*^^' fissure. In front of it is the furrow of Rolando, round the ends of which it joins the ascending frontal convolution. Behind, it is limited by the postcentral sulcus above, and the transverse part of the intraparietal sulcus below. Parietal lobides. The larger portion of the parietal lobe behind p^Pj^^j^^^" the foregoing convolution is divided into two parietal lobules by the loimie, longitudinal part of the intraparietal sulcus. The superior parietal lobule (spl) is connected in front to the upper end of the ascending parietal convolation between the postcentral sulcus and the upper margin of the hemisphere, and behind to the upper occipital convo- lution by a small winding gyrus which is called the first annectant convolution (below po). This lobule is divided into several secondary gyri. The inferior parietal lobule is again subdivided into two convolu- tions, but the separation between them is often very indistinct, lobuie! The supramaryinal convolution (sm) is the anterior and larger of ^? suj-a"^ these ; it springs in front from the lower end of the ascending marginal parietal convolution, encircles the extremity of the posterior branch p 2DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 212 and angular convolu- tions. Occipital sulci ami convolu- tions aic superior, middle, and inferior. Annectant convolu- tions. Tempore > sphenoid sulci : upiier (ir parallel, middle, and inferior. Convolu- tions are also tlirc!'. Convolu- tions of island of Reil. Sulci and convolu- tions of inner and tentorial surfaces. of the Sylvian fissure, and ends by joining the superior temporo- .sphenoidal convolution. Tlie angular convolution (Ang) arises from tlie hinder part of the foregoing, arclies over the upper end of the parallel sulcus (st), and descends behind that furrow to be continued into the middle temporo- sphenoidal convolution ; it is joined behind to the middle occipital convolution by the second annectant gyrus (behind Ang). Sulci and convolutions of the occipital lobe. The occipital lobe is divided into three convolutions, which run forwards from the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, by two small furrows—the superior and 'middle occipital sulci. The superior occipital convolution (so) is united anteriorly to the superior parietal lobule by the first annectant gyrus ; the middle (mo) to the angular C(jnvolution by the second, and to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the third annectant gyri; and the inferior (lo) to the lower temporo-sphenoidal convolution b}^ the fourth annectant gyrus. An inconstant inferior occipital sulcus, at the lower margin of the hemisphere, separates the third occipital convolution from the external occipito-temporal of the under surface. The occipital convolu- tions are very variable, and the sulci are frequently ill marked. Sulci and convolutions of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Three longitudinal sulci limit as many convolutions in this lobe. The superior temporo-siiilienoidal or parallel sulcus [st) is well marked, and runs l^elow and parallel to the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius, from near the anterior extremity of the lobe, backwards and upwards, into the inferior parietal lol)ule. The middle tempjoro-sphenoidal sulcus {mi) takes a similar course at a lower level, but it is not so constant as the superior; and the inferior (fig. 68, it), which is also very variable, is placed on the under surface of the hemisphere near the margin, sej)arating the lower temporo-sphenoidal from the external occipito-temporal convolution. The superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution (inframarginal; st) forms the lower boundary of the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure, and is continuous behind with the supramarginal convolu- tion. The middle and inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolutions (mt and it) are commonly united in some part of their extent. Tlie posterior end of the middle one is joined by the angular and third annectant gyri. The inferior forms the lower margin of the lobe, and receives the fourtli annectant gyrus. Convolutions of the central lobe (fig. 67, c). The surface of the insula is divided by an oblique furrow—the central sulcus of the insula., placed opposite the lower end of the furrow of Rolando, into an anterior triangular, and a posterior more elongated portion. The anterior part is again subdivided externally into three small gyri breves, and the posterior part into two gyri longi. Sulci and Convolutions of the Inner Surface of the Hemisphere (fig. 68). The convolutions of the inner aspect of the hemisphere^ with which are included those of the lower surface behind the fissure of Sylvius, are generally well defined ; but some bein£r so long as to reach bevond the extent of a single lobe of theINNER CEREBRAL SULCI. 213 outer surface, tliey are not usuall}- described as formiug lobes like the foregoing. Dissection. Tlie parts to be now described can only be seen How to .s satisfactorily on a separate hemisphere ; but if the student possesses only the one brain, he may show much of the inner surface by cutting off the left hemisphere as low as the corpus callosum. Sulci. The Cidloso-wargwal snkus {cm) begins below the rostrum Caiioso- of the corpus callosum, and arches upwards, following the curve of ^uiof,!"^^ Fig. 68.-=^- the fore part of that body. It is then directed backwards as far as the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, where it bends up- wards and ends by notching the superior margin of the hemisphere (fig. 66, cm). -Its fore part is frecpiently interrupted b}" one or two small gyri uniting the adjacent convolutions. The parieto-occijjital or iierpendicular fissure (fig. 68, jjo) is a deep Paiieto- cleft which descends from the upper margin of the hemisphere at flygj^^'g**' the back part, with a slight inclination forwards, to join the follow- ing sulcus on a level with the liinder end of the corpus callosum. The calcarine fissure (c) is nearly horizontal. It begins close to caicaiin the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, and is directed forwards, receiving the i)arieto-occipital hssure about the middle of its length, to end a little beloM^ the splenium of the corpus callosum. It gives rise to the eminence called calcar avis in the lateral ventricle, \\ hence its name. * Sulci and convolutions of the inner aspect of the hemisphere. Sulci : cm. Calloso-marginal. po. Parieto-occipital fissure, c. Calcarine fissure. A. Hippocampal fissure, coll. Collateral fissure, it. Inferior teniporo-sphenoidal sulcus. Convolutions: >i. Marginal. Ov. Ova! lobule. Call. Callosal convolution. Q. Quadrate lobule. Ctin. Cuneate lobule, v. Uncinate convolution, eot. External occipito-temporal. it. Inferior temporo-sphenoidal. fd. Fascia dentata. th. T^nia hippocampi. * Cut surface of optic thalamus.DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. '214 Hippoeam- pal fissure. Collateral fissure. Marginal oonvolu- tion. Oval lobule. Convolu- tion of the corpus callosuni. Quadrate lobule. Cuneate lobule. Uncinate convolution. External occipito- temporal convolution. The liijppocamijal or dentate fissure (h) is placed in front of the foregoing, at the inner margin of the lower ]3ortion of the hemi- sphere, and separates the uncinate convolution (u) from the tsenia hippocampi (th). It corresponds to the hippocampus major in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and its relations will be better seen when that body is examined. The collateral fissure (coll) gives rise to the collateral eminence in the lateral ventricle. It extends from near the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the fore part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and is frequently broken up into two or three jiarts by cross gyri. Convolutions. The marginal convolution (m) occupies the space between the calloso-marginal sulcus and the border of the hemi- sphere. It is much subdivided, and at its j)osterior extremity a small portion which is marked off by a short vertical furrow is- distinguished as the oval or i^aracentral lohule (Ov). The marginal convolution is continuous over the border of the hemisphere with the internal orbital and superior frontal convolutions, while the oval lobule is formed by the upper end of the ascending frontal convolu- tion. The callosal convolution (gyrus fornicatus ; Gall) is narrower and simpler than the marginal. Beginning below the rostrum of the corpus callosuni, this convolution follows the curve of that body, and turns downwards behind its posterior extremity to end in a thin part which joins the uncinate convolution (u). It is bounded in the greater part of its extent by the calloso-marginal sulcus, but behind the spot where this furrow turns upwards it is continuous with the quadrate lobule (q). Near its ending, it is limited below by the calcarine tissure. The quadrate lobule (q) is placed betAveen the end of the calloso- marginal sulcus and the parieto-occipital fissure. Much subdivided by secondary furrows, it reaches the margin of the hemisphere above, where it is continuous with the superior parietal lobule, and joins the callosal convolution below. The cuneate lohule (occipital lobule ; Cun) is triangular in shape, the base being formed by the margin of the hemisphere. In front of it is the parieto-occipital, and below the calcarine fissure. Small irregular sulci divide it into secondary gyri. The uncinate or internal occijpito-teni'poral convolution (u) extends from the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the Sylvian fissure, being bounded by the calcarine and hij)pocampal fissures above, and by the collateral fissure below. It is somewhat narrowed in the middle, where the callosal convolution joins it, and enlarged in front and behind. At its fore part is a small piece {uncus) bent backwards over the lower end of the dentate fissure, from which the convolution derives its name. The external occipito-temporal convolution (eot) lies between the collateral fissure and the inferior temporo-sphenoidal sulcus (it). This is frequently not distinct from the lower temporo-sj)henoidal convolution. At the bottom of the hippocampal fissure, the grey cortex of theINTEEIOR OF CEREBRUM. 215 hemisj^here ends in a projecting notclied niiirgin, A\'liicli is named Dentate fascia dentata or dentate convolution (fd). Tliis will Ije l^etter seen sy^us. subsequently (p. 221). Structure of the convolutions. Each convolution is continuous Form and with the general mass of the hemisphere on the one side (base), conToiu- and is free on the other, where it presents a summit and lateral ^'^'^^^» surfaces, which are covered by pia mater. A cross section will show g^-ey its constitution of a layer of cortical grey substance on the surface, cortical, which is continued at the bottom of the sulci from one eminence to another, and a white medullary part in the centre, which appears as and white a process of the large medullary mass forming the greater part of the pa^s^^^^'^ substance of the hemisphere. On examining closely the section of a convolution in a fresh specimen, the cortex may generally be seen to pusedof'^ix consist of three grey, and as many thinner white, layers arranged l^^^f^^'^ alternately, the outermost being a thin white stratum, Avhicli is grey sui.- most marked over the fore part of the imcinate convolution. nateiy Interior of the Cerebrum. Each cerebral hemisphere consists outline of of white and grey substance, the white forming the larger portion cerebrum: of the mass (medullary centre of the hemisphere), while the grey medullary matter is chiefly disposed in a superficial layer (cortex) which covers <^^^*^®' the medullary centre, except over the region on the inner side whence cortical the corpus callosum issues ; but at the lower part of the hemisphere there are other collections of grey matter more or less surrounded by and central the medullary substance. In each hemisphere is an elongated ^^^^ masses, cavity, named the lateral ventricle, which communicates with another median space—the third ventricle, placed close to the base of the ventricles, brain. The student will now proceed to examine the parts in the interior of the hemisphere, carrying the dissection from above downwards. Dissection. Supposing both hemispheres entire, the left is to be Cut down to cut olf to the level of the calloso-marginal sulcus. When this has celftre of the been done, the-surface displays a white central mass of a semi-oval hemisphere, shape (centrum ovale minus) sending processes into the convolu- tions, and surrounded by an irregular grey margin. In a fresh brain this surface would be studded with drops of blood escaping from the divided vessels. Next, the callosal convolution is to be divided about the middle. Reflect 11 • -11 TIP 1 r\ callosal con* and the two pieces are to be thrown backwards and lorwards. (Jn volution, its under surface w^ill be seen a thin band of Avhite fibres, the cingu- ciugulum. liim or covered hand of Reil, which bends down before and behind the corpus callosum. A similar dissection is to be carried out on the opposite side ; and Repeat dis- tlie hemisphere being removed to the level of the corpus callosum, rf|ht°side! the transverse fibres of that body are to be defined as they radiate to the convolutions. Now a much larger white surface comes into view (centrum ovale The larger majus), and the white masses in the two hemispheres are seen to be fg^'deeper! *^ continuous, across the middle line, through the corpus callosum. The CORPUS CALLOSUM reaches from one half of the cerebrum to the corpus other, and forms the roof of the lateral -s^entricle in each hemisphere callosum:DISSECTION OF THE JBRAIN. 216 situation, (fig. 74). Its central part, wliicli is exposed in the longitudinal extent and fissurc, is naiTow, and measures about three inches in length. It is ^''^' nearer to the anterior than to the posterior end of the cerebrum, and is somewhat arched from before backwards. On each side its upper surface is free for a short distance beneath the callosal convo- lution, from which it is separated by a groove {callosal sulcus). anterior and In front, the C(jrpus callosum is bent downwards, forming the posterior ends; fibres transverse; a few longi- tudinal. gcniL and rostrum as before described (p. 206) ; and behind, it ends in a thickened part named the splenium (fig. 69). The fibres of the corpus callosum are for the most part directed transversely, but on the ujiper surface there is a somewhat irregular, narrow longitudinal band on each side close to the middle line (stria> longitudinales or nerves of Lancisi). Between tlie two bands is a median groove or raphe. Farther out there may be seen other lono'itudinal fibres belonj^infj to the covered band, if that has not Portion of a median section of the brain, showing the corpus callosum, third (3) and fourth (4) ventricles, arbor vitse cerebelli, &c. In front of 3, the soft commissure is seen cut across. Between the infundibulum and the corpus albicans the tuber cinereum, and behind the corpus albicans the posterior perforated space and the united tegmenta are forming the floor of the third ventricle. Above 4, is the superior medullary velum with the lingula, and below are the inferior medullary velum and the nodule. The pia mater and velum interpositum are removed.217 LATERAL VENTRICLE. hcen completely removed. The longitudinal stiioe are prolonged (lownwai'd.s in Iront, and form the peduncles of the corpus callosum (p. 206). Dissectio7i. In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosmu, Dissection, and to hring- into view the parts in relation M'ith its under surface, a cut is to he made through it on the right side about half an inch from tlie raphe ; and this is to he extended forwards and hack wards, as far as the limits of tlie underlying ventricle. While cutting til rough the corpus callosum, the student may observe that a thin membraniform structure (e])endyma) lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the centre, in is thickened consequence of a greater number of fibres being collected from the «^'^ch cmi; cerebrum ; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected sudaee. with its under surface along the nuddle is the septum lucidum or partition betwecu the \'entricles (fig. 70, h) at the fore part, and the fornix (r) Ijc^hind. This is the chief c(;mmissural body of the halves of the cerebrum, and its fibres pass laterally into the medullary centre of the hemi- sphere, in which they radiate to the convolutions. Dissection. The left lateral ventricle is to be now opened in the Dissection. 8ame way as the light; and to prej^are for the examination of the cavity on the right side, as much of the corpus callosum as forms the roof of the s]»ace is to be remoA ed. A part of the ventricle •extends down in the tenqxn'o-sphenoidal lobe towards the base of the brain ; and to open it, a cut is to l)e carried outwards and down- wards, through the substance of the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. (See tig. 70.) Ventricles oe the Brain. Five ventricles are described in the lirain ((.n- brain; l)ut four of them are subdivisions of one large central cavity, ventricles: and these are lined throughout by a thin membrane named the ■('pendyma, which is covered by epithelium, for the most part ciliated. They are the two lateral ventricles, one in each cerebral hendsj)here, the third ventricle close-to the base of the brain, and the fourth ventricle between the cerebellum and the back of the pons and medulla oblongata. The fifth ventricle is a small space between fifth is the layers of the septun.i lucidum, and has not any lining of ^.'Itendyma. The LATERAL VENTRICLE (fio*. 70) is a uarrow siiace which extends Lateral ventricle nearly the whole length of the hemisphere, and sends a process ilownwards into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The cavities of the two sides approach one another in front, where they are only separated by the thin septum lucidum ; and below the hinder part of that partition, each communicates with the third ventricle by an aperture known as the foramen of Monro. At the back there is a wider interval between them. The roof of the space is formed in its whole extent by the fibres of the corpus callosum jjassing outwards to the convolutions ; in the floor are numerous objects which will be enumerated in connection with the several parts of the ventricle. The ventricle consists of a central part or body, and three Subdivision, processes or cornua, anterior, posterior, and middle or inferior.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 218 Body; Tlie hody is beneath the parietal lobe of the hemisphere, and extends from the foramen of Monro to the sj)lenium of the corpus callosum. It is somewhat arched, with the convexity upwards, and in its floor are seen the following j)arts, proceeding from without objects ill inwards :—1, the hinder portion of a pyriform mass of grey matter ' named the corpus striatum (caudate nucleus ; e), 2, a slender white Fig. 70.* band—the taenia semicircularis (/), 3, a narrow part of the optic thalamus {g), 4, a vascular fringe of the pia mater—the choroid plexus Qi), and 5, a thin white layer—the lateral part of the fornix (c). It is bounded internally for a short distance in front by the mesial limit, hinder part of the septum lucidum (6), and behind this by the meeting of the fornix and corpus callosum. Anterior The anterior cornu j)rojects forwards, with an inclination down- lioru: wards and outwards, into the frontal lobe. In the floor are the boundaries, large anterior extremity (head) of tlie caudate nucleus and the * View of the lateral ventricles : on the left side the descending cornu is laid open, a,a. Ends of the corpus callosum. b. Septum lucidum, enclosing the small space of the fifth ventricle, c. Fornix, d. Posterior crus of the fornix or tajnia hippocampi, e. Caudate nucleus of the corpus striatum. /. Taenia semicircularis. g. Optic thalamus, h. Choroid plexus, i. Hippo- campus minor, k. Eminentia col lateralis. I. Hippocampus major, o. Posterior cornu of the ventricle.SEPTUM LUCIDUM. 219 rostrum of tlie corpus callosuni ; its anterior boundary is formed by the genu of the latter body ; and internally it is separated from the cavity of the opposite side by the septum lucidum. The posterior cornu (o) is narrower and generally longer than the Posterior anterior, but its breadth and length vary much in different brains. ^"^^^ • It extends backwards into tlie occipital lobe, being curved outwards form; I'ound the parieto-occij)ital fissure of the internal surface of the hemisphere. Along its inner side is an elongated white eminence— inner wall; the hippocampus minor (i) ; and the floor is formed by the hinder part of the eminentia collateralis (Ic). The inferior or descending cornu leaves the hinder part of the Middle body of the ventricle op2:)osite the sj^lenium of the corpus callosum, ^^"^" and runs downwards and forwards in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, direction; describing a curve with the convexity outwards. In the roof are roof; contained the fibres passing from the hinder end of the corpus callosum downwards and outwards into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, together with the prolongation of the caudate nucleus and ta3nia semicircularis; and at the anterior extremity is a prominence called the amygdaloid tubercle. The floor is formed and floor, mainly by a loiig curved eminence—the hippocampus major (1), along the inner margin of which is a thin band prolonged from the fornix—the toenia hippocampi, while to its outer side lies the tapering fore part of the eminentia collateralis. The choroid plexus is continued downwards along tlie inner side to the lower extremity of this cornu. The SEPTUM LUCIDUM (fig. 69 ; 70, h; 74) is placed vertically Septum between the two lateral ventricles, beneath the anterior half of the corpus callosum, to which its upper border is attached. It is l^*^^'*^^"' triangular in shape, Avith the base turned downwards and forwards, attach-"*^ and fixed to the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The jDOsterior m^nts; border is oblique, and joins the fornix. Its surfaces look into the lateral ventricles, 02)posite the head of the caudate nucleus. Although so thin as to be translucent, the septum lucidum consists of two is a double laminae wdiich enclose a space—the fifth ventiicle. Each lamina containili"- is composed of white substance, with a thin layer of grey matter fifth internally; and the ependyma of the lateral ventricle covers its^^^^"^^" outer surface. Dissection. The fifth ventricle will be exposed by cutting through Dissection, the piece of the corpus callosum which remains in the middle line, and detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum. The FIFTH VENTRICLE (veut. of the septum) is a narrow slit in the Fifth fore part of the septum lucidum, where this is deeper. Posteriorly ventricle, and above, the laminae of the septum are united to a variable extent. Like the septum, it is larger in front than behind. This cavity has not any epithelial lining. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay l^are this Dissection, body the posterior part of the corpus collosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown backwards ; and the septum lucidum should also be removed from its upper surface. The FORNIX (fig. 70, c) is a thin white layer beneath the corpus Fornix220 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN position mid callosLiiii, wliicli, projecting on each side into tlie lateral ventricle, form. forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its central part or body is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards ; and it is con- tinuous with the rest of the brain by processes named crura in front and behind. Upper sur- '-^^^ upper surface of the body has the septum lucidum attached face and to it along the middle line in front ; and behind, its median part is united to the corpus callosum. Each border is free in tlie corre- sponding lateral A^entricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus, the velum interpositum being between the two ; and along it lies the Posterior choroid plexus. At its base it joins the corpus callosum in the •■""^1 middle, Avhile on each side it sends off a small riband-like band— the ]josterior cms or tcenia hi])i)ocam])i (fig. 71, c), along the concave anterior margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior end it is arched part, Qyyp foramen of Monro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which wdllbe afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 228). Under If the fornix Ije cut across near its front, the foramen of Monro surface ^^-^yi l)e opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen (figs. 71 and 74). When the posterior part is raised, it will be found to be supported on a process of the j)ia mater, named velum inter- positum. And near its base, on the under aspect, is a triangular marked surface, marked Ijy transverse lines, which are produced by the bylines fil)res of the cor])us callosum appearing in the interval between the two diverging longitudinal l)ands of the fornix : the Avliich is so defined has been called the hjrct (fig. 71, a). Fornix Tlie fomix may be described as consisting of two l)ands, right t«""baiKis '^^^^ which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in tlie optic thalamus and passing through the corpus albicans, arches over the foramen of Monro, and after forming the body of the fornix, is continued as the taenia hipjiocampi to the hook of the uncinate convolution. Foramen of The FORAMEN OF MoNRO (fig. 69), is a short slit between the fore Monro. p.^^.^ q£ ^j^^ fornix and the optic thalamus. Through it the latera. A'entricle communicates with the third ventricle, and indirectly Avith the one of the opposite side. It is lined by a prolongation of the ependyma, which is thus continued from one ventricle to the other. The student may leave untouched for the present the velum interposituni, and proceed to examine the bodies which have been enumerated in the floor of the joosterior and descending cornua. Hippocani- The HIPPOCAMPUS MINOR or CALCAR AVIS (fig. 70, i) is a spiudle- pusinmoi, g]^j^pg(-i^ prominence on the inner side of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. If it is cut across, it will be seen to be formed foinied by l^y the calcarine fissure pushing outwards the wall of the cavity fissure.'^ (p. 213), and beneath the white layer is the cortical grey substance passing from the unciuAte convolution to the cuneate lobule at the bottom of the fissure.221 TRANSVERSE FISSURE OF CEREBRUM. The HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR (fig. 70, I) is tlie large convex eminence Hippocnm- in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and like i'"^ inajor. that is cnrved, Avith the concavity directed inwards. Its anterior extremit}', which is named ^:)e.s hippocampi, is somewhat enlarged, pes hippu- and presents two or three indentations, resembling the foot of a <'ampi- feline animal. Along the inner margin of the hippocampus is tlie i<i'nia hippo- Ta-niahippo- ramp)i or fimbria (fig. 71, c), which is prolonged from the fornix ; "^'""^ this ends below by joining the small recurved part of the unchiate convolution (p. 214). Dissection, To examine more fully the hippocampus, tlie hinder Dissection, portions of the corpus callosum and fornix should be divided in the middle line, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away from the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its structure will be seen. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface l)y a striictiue thin medullary layer, with which the taenia blends. On its opposite cLupus' surface is the hollow of the hippocampal fissure of the exterior of the brain, which is lined by grey substance. Beneath the tseuia Idppocampi the grey matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata : this is external to the cavity of the A eiitricle, and has been, named the dentate convolution (p. 215). The EMINENTIA COLLATERALis (fig. 70, h) is the triangular, slightly Collateral convex surface occupying the fioor of the posterior and descending cornua of the lateral ventricle to the outer side of the hippocam])i. It lies over the collateral fissure of the under surface of the hemi- formeii i.> sphere ; and its extent varies greatly in difierent su1)jects. flssure.'' ' The AMYGDALOID TUBERCLE is a Variable eminence due to a c(»l- Anivf^iaioid lection of grey matter, the amygdaloid nucleus (fig. 74), on the outer side of the uncus, with the cortical layer of which it is continuous. Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. By draiving the sepa- fJr'-at t'iiiis- verse lissure rated part of the right hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the optic thalamus, and replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the position and boundaries, on one side, of the great cleft of the brain. This fissure lies beneath the fornix and splenium of the corpus is beuoatii callosum, and above the optic thalami and corpora <|uadrigemina leaoji^VV'ase (fig. 69); and in the dissected brain it opens into the lateral ventricle of brain, aloug the edge of the fornix on each side, from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. The slit opening into the lateral ventricle {choroidal fijisure^ is bounded by the edge of the fornix with the taenia hippocampi on the one side, and by the optic thalamus and crus cerebri on the other. A fold of pia Pia mater mater (velum interpositum) projects into the transverse fissure ^ ' beneath the fornix (fig. 71, g), and forms lateral fringes—the choroid plexuses, which appear in the ventricles along the margins of the slit. In the natural state the fissure is separated from the cavity of the ventricle by the epithelium of the ependyma being continued over the choroid plexus. The student is now to return to the examination of the parts in Parts in the222 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. middle of tlie centre of the bmin, viz., the fold of pia mater and its vessels, the brain, ^^j^-]^ ventricle. Afterwards the corpus striatum and optic thalamus will be studied. Veinm, or The VELUM iNTERPO.siTUM (fii^. 71 g) is the fold of pia mater fold of pia mater Fi- 71.* is over third ventricle. and carries choroid plexuses. Choroid jilexus of the lateiul ventricle. entering the great transverse fissure. .Triangular in shape, it has the same extent as the body of the fornix, and reaches in front to the foramen of Monro. The upper surface is in contact with the fornix, to which it supplies vessels. The lower surface, looking to the third ventricle, covers the pineal body and a part of each optic thalamus : on it, close to the middle line, are the two choroid plexuses of the third ventricle ; and along each side is the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. The CHOROID PLEXUS OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE (fig. 71,/) is the red, somewhat rounded and fringed margin of the velum inter- positum, which projects into the lateral ventricle, extending from the foramen of Monro to the extrennty of the descending cornu. Its lower part is larger than the upper. The epithelium lining the * Second view of the dissection of the brain, the fornix being cut through in front and raised, a. Fornix, b. Hippocampus major, c. Teenia hippo- campi, d. Caudate nucleus, e. Optic thalamus. /. Choroid plexus, g. Velum interpositum.THIRD VENTRICLE. 223 ventricle is continued over tlie choroid plexus, but it loses its cilia in this situation. The right and left choroid plexuses are continuous at the anterior extremity of the velum, where they are similarly excluded from the foramina of Monro l)y the epithelial lining."^ Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to Vessels of the velum and the choroid plexus from the cerebral and cerebellar velum: arteries (p. 186, 187) : they are three on each side, and supply the arteries; surrounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus veins; receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following. Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two with veins large veins with tins name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane, they are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and through this they join the straight sinus. Dissection. Wlien tlie velum interposition has been raised and Dissection, thrown backwards, the third A^entricle will be opened (fig. 72). In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must l)e careful not to detach the pineal body (g) beliind, which is surrounded by the membrane. On the under surface of the velum are seen the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The CHOROID PLEXUSES OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE are twO short Choroid and narrow fringed bodies below the velum, which resemble the like tMni^ " structures in the lateral ventricle. ventricle. The THIRD VENTRICLE is the narrow interval between the optic Third thalami (fig. 72). Its situation is in the median plane of the ^'^^^^^'^^ cerebrum, below the level of the lateral ventricles, with which it '^^.^F^^^^^ communicates ; and it reaches to the base of tlie brain. Its boundaries and communications are the following:— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum with the choroid Roof. ]ilexuses, above which is the fornix. The floor (fig. 69) is very Floor, oblique from behind forwards, so tliat the depth of the cavity is about three-quarters of an inch in front and half as much behind : its hinder part is formed by the united tegmenta; and in front of these it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri (fig. 64), viz., posterior perforated space, corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum with the infundibulum, and the optic commissure. On the sides of the cavity are situate the pm-ts on the optic thalami and the anterior pillars of the fornix (fig. 69). In front "'"^i'^^'*' of the space are the anterior commissure and the lamina cinerea. Behind are the posterior commissure and the pineal body. Crossing ^^^^^^ behind, the centre of the ventricle, from one optic thalamus to the other, is a band of grey matter—the soft commissure. This space communicates in front with each lateral ventricle Openings through the foramen of Monro ; and behind is a passage beneath yl!„tScies. the posterior commissure into the fourth ventricle, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. In the floor, in front, there is a depression * Particles of brain-sand, Hke that in the pineal body, are sometimes pre- sent in the choroid plexus.DISSECTION OF THE BllAIN. 224 opposite tlie iiifundibuliim, where the cavity at an early period of foetal life was prolonged into the pituitary body. Lining of The ependvma lining the ventricle is continued into the neigh- cavity. Fig. 72.* bouring cavities through the different apertures of communication^ and its epithelium is continued over the choroid plexuses in the roof. * View of the third and fourth ventncles ; the former being exposed by the removal of the velum interpositum ; and the latter by dividing vertically the worm of the cerebellum. The third ventricle is the interval in the middle line between the optic thalami, h. a. Caudate nucleus, h. Optic thalamus, c. Anterior commissure, seen between the anterior crura of the fornix, d. Middle or soft commissvue. e. Posterior commissure. /. Pineal stria, g. Pineal body, li and i. Corpora quadrigemina. The fourth ventricle, n, is at the back of the medulla oblongata. 1c. Valve of Vieussens, I. Upper peduncle of the cerebellum, o. Fasciculus teres. p. Superior fovea, v. Inferior fovea, s. Clava. 4. Fourth nerve arising from the valve of Vieussens.225 COEPUS STRIATUM. Grey uiaftcr of the ventricle. A stratum of grey matter forms the Grey matter lower ])art of the wall of the ventricle. Portions of this layer , . , .1 1 PIT- • 1 . ventricle. appearing at the base oi the bram constitute the posterior perforated space, the tuber cinereum and the lamina cinerea. It also extends into the corpus albicans, forming the nucleus of that body. At the fore part of each optic thalamus it covers the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the soft commissure (d). The CORPUS .STRIATUM (fig. 70, e) is the large grey body which corpu!-- has been seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle. The grey matter striatum, composing it is incompletely divided into two masses—caudate and s^i'^^cture. lenticular nuclei, by a layer of white fibres, named the internal capsule; and it has received its name from the striated appearance of this layer. Dissect ion. To show the composition of the corpus striatum, the Dissection, upper ])art of that body and of the optic thalamus should be sliced off on the right side, until a view resembling that in fig. 73 is obtained. The superficial anatomy of the corj)us striatum and optic thalamus may be studied on the left side. The caudate or intraventricular nuclens (fig. 72,a) is a long p\ riform Camlate mass of reddish-grey substance which projects into the lateral shows in ventricle. Its larger extremity or Jiead (fig. 73, c7i) is turned ^^^^^^'^/^^^. forwards, and forms the floor of the anterior cornu of the ventricle. The middle tapering portion is directed backwards and outwards, along the outer side of the ojitic thalamus, beneath the Iwdy of the A'entricle, and ends in the tail (fig. 73, cn'), which bends downwards and is prolonged in the roof of the descending cornu of the cavity, nearly to its anterior extremity. Xumerous veins run over the veins on surface of the caudate nucleus, and they may be seen to join a' larger vessel (vein of the corpus striatum) which lies along the groove between the caudate nucleus and optic thalamus. The lenticular or cxtrarentricular nucleus is entirely surrounded bv Lenticular nucleus is white matter, and is placed opposite the bottom of the fissure of only seen in Sylvius and the insula of the exterior of the hemisphere. It -sections; appears lens-shaped in horizontal section (fig. 73, In), but triangular, with the base turned outwards, when cut transversely (fig. 74). Internally, it is separated from the caudate nucleus and optic surrounded thalamus by the internal capsule ; and externally and below, it is capsule*.^ bounded by a thinner white layer named the external capsule. The INTERNAL CAPSULE (figs. 73 ; 74) is a thick layer of white J^'^^^™^^ fibres, which is seen in the horizontal section to form a bend—genu (icg), opposite the groove between the optic thalamus and the head of the caudate nucleus. The part in front of the genu is named the v^^'^"^, anterior limb (ica), and the longer part behind is the posterior limh (icp) of the capsule. The internal capsule is formed in large part source of by the fibres of the crusta of the crus cerebri coursing upwards to the medullary centre of the hemisphere, but many fibres are added from the nuclei on each side. The pyramidal fibres, which have pyramidal been traced from the medulla oblongata through the pons (p. 202), and crusta (p. 205), occupy the anterior two-thirds of the posterior Q tract.226 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. limb. The fibres of tbe capsule are collected into separate bundles, between which the grey matter is continued from the caudate to the lenticular nucleus. ciaustrum. On the outer side of the external capsule, separating that from Fig. 73. =^ the medullary substance of the convolutions of the insula, is a third portion of grey matter^ a thin layer which appears as a slightly wa^•y line in sections : this is named the claustrum (fig. 13, cl; 74). The T^NiA SEMiciRCULARis (fig. 70, /) is a narrow whitish band of longitudinal fibres, which lies along the groove between the caudate * Middle part of a horizontal section through the cerebrum at the level of the dotted line in the small figure of one hemisphere (after Dalton). ccf/. Genu, and cc spl. Splenium of corpus callosum. /. Fornix ; the septum lucidum, containing the fifth ventricle between its layers, unites the fornix with the corpus callosum. Iva. Anterior, and Ivi. Inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, cn. Caudate nucleus, head, and cn', tail. ts. Taenia semi- circularis. o th. Optic thalamus, th. Taenia hippocampi, h. Hippocampus major, lea. Anterior limb, icg. Genu, and icp. Posterior limb of the internal capsule. In. Lenticular nucleus, ec. External capsule. cl. Claustrum. I. Island of Reil. Sy. Deep part of fissure of Sylvius.227 ANTERIOR COMMISSURE. niicleus and the optic thalamus. In front, the band becomes broader and joins the piUar of the fornix ; behind, it is continued with the tail of the caudate nucleus into the roof of the descending oornu of the lateral ventricle, at the lower end of which it joins the amygdaloid nucleus. Dissection. The anterior commissure is next to be exposed in its Anterior course through the cerebral hemisphere. For this purpose the si^g™'^ remaining fore part of the caudate nucleus, the white fibres, and the fUssectiou lenticular nucleus, on the right side, must be successively scraped show it; away with the handle of the scalpel, and the rounded band traced outwards from the spot where it is seen at the front of the third \'entricle to the medullary centre of tlie temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The ANTERIOR COMMISSURE is a round bundle of white fibres its form, about as large as a crow-(|uill, wliich is free only for about an eighth of an inch in the middle of its extent, where it lies in front of the position, pillars of the fornix (fig. 74). Laterally, it passes outwards beneath the corpus striatum, lying between the lenticular nucleus and the course, and grey matter of the anterior perforated space, and curving backwards, spreads out in the white substance of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe ending, above the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The OPTIC THALAMUS (fig. 72, b) is an oval-shaped body which takes Optic ^^^^ ]»art in bounding the lateral and third ventricles. Its uj)per surface ' * Coronal section of the cerebrum, passing through the fore part of the third ventricle. The anterior portion is represented. (After Merkel.) Q 2DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. upper surface: inner surface: lower ;iud extern ill surfaces: anterior an* posterior ends; Dissection, Origin of fornix. Dissection, is marked by a shallow oblique groove, wliicli corresponds to the edge of the fornix. The part of the surface inside the groove is in contact with the velnm interpositum ; but the narrower outer part is free in the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is covered by the ependyma of that cavity : at its anterior end it forms a slight pro- minence known as the tubercle of the optic thalamus. Externally this surface is bounded by the tsenia semicircularis, which separates it from the caudate nucleus. The inner surface is for the most part free, forming the lateral wall of the third ventricle, but near the middle it is united to the one of the opposite side by the soft com- missure. Along the line of junction of the upper and internal surfaces is a narrow white streak—the ^pineal stria (/), which springs behind from the stalk of the pineal body, and ends in front by joining tlie anterior pillar of the fornix. The under surface is concealed, except at its hindmost part, by the crus cerebri, the tegmentum of which joins the thalamus ; and on the outer side it is separated from the lenticular nucleus by the posterior limb of the internal capsule (fig. 73, icp). Tlie anterior end of the optic thalamus bounds the foramen of Monro. The posterior end is much larger, and projects above the superior quadrigeminal body (tig. 72, h) and crus cerebri, being covered by the j^ia mater : internally it forms a considerable pro- minence called the imlvinar; and below and outside this is a smaller oval elevation named the external geniculate body (fig. 76). In the section that has been made on the right side (fig. 73), the optiq thalamus is seen to be composed of dark grey matter; but it appears white on the upper surface, the grey substance being here covered by a thin medullary layer. A faint white line, which Ijifurcates in front, divides the grey mass into three portions—a small anterior, and larger internal and external nuclei. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus ma}^ now be followed out. As a preparatory stej) the anterior com- missure, the front of the corpus callosum, and the commissure of the optic nerves should be cut along the middle line, so that the fore parts of the hemispheres can be separated from one another. On the left hemisphere the crus of the fornix is to be traced down- ^N ards through the grey matter of the third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and thence upwards into the optic thalamus. The ANTERIOR PILLAR OF THE FORNIX is joined below the foramen of Monro by the fibres of the taenia semicircularis and j)ineal stria, and then curves downwards and backwards in front of the 0]itic thalamus, through the grey matter of the third ventricle, to the corpus albicans (fig. 69). Here it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, furnishing a white envelope to the grey matter of that, body. Finally it ascends to the fore part of the optic thalamus, in the anterior nucleus of which its fibres end. The bodies lying behind the third ventricle, viz., the corpora quadrigemina, the jDineal body, and the posterior commissure may be next examined. Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefully removed from229 MESENCEPHALON. the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, especially on the right side, on which they are to be seen. The posterior part of the hemisphere of the saiiie side may be taken away. The constricted portion of the brain between the optic thalami Midbrain, above and the pons and cerebellum below is known as the isthmus <ierehri or mesencephalon, and occupies, when the brain is in the skull, the aperture of the tentorium. The dorsal part of the Lamina mesencephalon is formed by a layer which is marked on the surface quadri- by four eminences—the corpora quadrigemina, and is therefore ° named tlie lamina quadrigemina. The ventral part of the mid- Fit iii/.guad.bodij aciucducl cf Syluius /^^^ lamina c(uacljiffnnina <jrcy matter of _y__^„yU:^\ aqnodact-—fy:: SUr m ^\ fillet—J-f \vjr^ \\ tccjnicufcum sup.pcd o/_^l_i r /JXsubstantia cms cerebellum / V V / ^/ nit)ra i ctrcbri LLsta brain is much larger, constituting the crura cerebri wdiich have already been examined. The lamina quadrigemina is separated from the crura in the middle by a canal—the a,queduct of Sylvius; A(iueduct of but on each side it is united wdth the tegmentum. t^yivms. The coRPORxV QUADRIGEMINA (fig. 72) are fouL jDrominent bodies, Quadri- an upper and a lower pair, which are separated by a crucial groove, jjodies: The superior eminence (natis ; h) is the larger, and is rather oval in superior, shape. The inferior (testis ; i) is smaller, but more prominent, and inferior, rounded ; it is, also whiter in colour than the npper one. From the outer side of each quadrigeminal body a wdiite band, hracliiam Brachia. (fig. 76) is continued outwards and forwards : the upper brachium ■passes into the optic tract ; while the lower band smks beneath a internal small but well defined oval prominence, wdiich is placed between tlie g^"^^^"'^''^^*' crus cerebri and the optic thalamus, and is named the internal geniculate body. The quadrigeminal bodies are small masses of grey substance, covered by a wliite layer. From the grey matter of the upper one fibres of the optic tract take origin. Behind the quadrigeminal bodies are seen the superior peduncles Below testis of the cerebellum (fig. 72, ^; 81, sp) with the valve of Vieussens seen^'^^^^ (fig. 72, h) between them. Issuing from beneath the transverse "fibres of pons, and arching over the cerebellar peduncle, is an oblique, slightly raised band named Xh^ fillet (fig. 81,/), which disappears imder the lower quadrigeminal body and its brachium. ' The FILLET is a white filjrous tract w'hich appears in sections of the Fillet: * Transverse section of the lower part of the midbrain.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 230 origin; ending of outer or superficial part, and inner or deep part. Optic tract arises from nates, geniculate bodies, and thalamus. pons between the reticular formation and the deep transverse fibres (tig. 63, f). It is formed mainly by fibres continued upwards from the anterior and lateral columns of the same side of the spinal cord, together with others from the nuclei of the posterior columns (cuneate and slender) of the opposite side of the bulb. At the upper edge of the pons the outer part of the fillet becomes super- ficial, and curving round the tegmentum (fig. 75), passes to the quadrigeminal bodies, in which many of the fibres are lost, while others decussate in the lamina quadrigemina, above the aqueduct of Sylvius, with those of the opposite side. The inner fibres of the fillet maintain their deep position, and are continued upwards with the tegmentum to the cerebral hemisphere. The ORIGIN OF THE OPTIC TRACT can now be seen (fig. 76). At the outer side of the crus cerebri the optic tract forms a bend (genu). Fis. 76.* J»i. h. sup. hiar\ tcciuvb semi p. nj. hmch . if. ciucLoL.b. opt.conurv. opt. rtcrvt and then divides into two parts. The inner and smaller of these springs from the internal geniculate body ; while the outer is con- tinued from the external geniculate body and the optic thalamus, receiving also the bracliium of the superior quadrigeminal body. Posterior The POSTERIOR COMMISSURE (fig. 72, e) is the thin foremost part commissure. ^£ ^^iq lamina quadrigemina, which is folded back so as to present a rounded margin in front towards the third ventricle, above the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius (fig. 69). On each side it joins the optic thalamus, and to its uj)i)er part the stalk of the pineal body is attached. It consists mainly of decussating fibres con- tinuous with those of the fillet ; but some are said to be conunis- sural, uniting the tegmenta of the two sides. Pineal The PINEAL BODY (conarium; fig. 72, g) is ovoiclal in shaj)e, like gland, ^i^g ^Qj^^ ^£ ^ pine, and about a quarter of an inch in length. It lies ■■" Origin of the optic tract. The mesenceplialon is divided close above the pons.231 AQUEDUCT OF SYLVIUS. Avitli its base turned forwards in the groove between the superior (|uadrigeminal bodies. It is surrounded by pia mater ; and its base is attached by a hollow white stalk, below to the posterior commis- sure, and above to the optic thalamus on each side, along which it sends forwards the thin band already described as the pineal stria (/; p. 228). Thin body is of a red colour and very vascular. It is not structure, composed of nervous substance, but consists of small follicles lined by epithelium, and containing minute granular masses of calcareous matter (brain-sand) : similar concretions are often found on its surface, and adhering to its stalk. The AQUEDUCT OF Sylvius (iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum ; Aqueduct of Sylvius. Fig. 77.* fig. 69) is a narrow passage, about five-eighths of an inch long, uniting the third and fourth ventricles. It is lined by ependyma, external to which is a layer of grey matter (fig. 75) continuous with that of the floor of the two cavities. Fibres of the Cerebrum. In the cerebral hemisplieres three Three sets systems of fibres are distinguished, viz., ascending, transverse, and cg^e^J^? longitudinal. The ascending are derived in large pait from the hemisphere spinal cord and the lower jDortions of the encephalon ; the transverse and longitudinal connect together parts of the cerebrum. Ascend'ng OY'peduMCular fibres (fig. 77). The longitudinal fibres Ascendin}? fibres; Posterior view of the connections between the cerebrum, medulla oblongata and cerebellum, 1, Superior, 2. Middle, and 3. Inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. 4. Fillet. 5. Funiculus gracilis. 6. Tegmentum passing into the optic thalamus. 7. Lamina quadrigemina. 8. Optic thalamus. 9. Caudate nucleus. 10. Corpus callosum.DIS8ECTI0N OF THE BEAIX. 232 their origin. Fibres of ci-usta. and of t(\"mentnni. Dissection of them in the corpus striatum. Ascending libres spread out in hemisphere, formuig corona radiata. Transverse libres. entering tlie midbrain from tlie pons are collected into two sets, wliich are contained respectively in the crusta and the tegmentum. In this region they are reinforced by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and l)y fibres derived from the corpora quadrigeniina, as well as l)y others springing from tlie grey nuclei of the crura. The fibres of the crusta enter the internal capsule ; and while some (including the pyramidal tract) are continued without interruption through this into the medullary centre of the hemisphere, others pass into the lenticular and caudate nuclei, and fresh fibres are added from those bodies. The longitudinal fibres of the tegmentum for the most part end in the optic thalamus, from the outer side of which also numerous fibres are given oft" to the capsule ; but one tract of tegmental fibres, prolonged from the fillet, passes beneath the thalamus into the hinder part of the internal cajDSule, some of the outer ones inclining to the side and traversing the inner part of the lenticular nucleus as they course upwards. Dissection. A complete systematic view of the ascending fibres cannot now be obtained on the imperfect brain. At this stage the chief purpose is to show the passage of the radiating fibres from the crus through the large cerebral ganglia. To trace the ascending fibres through the corpus striatum, the caudate nucleus of this body should be scraped away (fig. 77) ; and the dissection should be made on the left side, on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this pro- ceeding the internal capsule comes into view, consisting of white fibres with intervening grey matter of the corj^us striatum, giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb (pecten of Reil). On taking away completely the hinder part of the caudate nucleus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and radiating to the posterioi' and inferior portions of the hemisphere. Arrangement of the ascending fibres. The fibres of the internid capsule diverge as they pass through the grey matter of the corpus striatum, and at the outer margin of that body they enter the medullary centre of the hemisphere, where they decussate with the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum, and radiate to all parts of the hemisjihere. The ascending fibres thus form in the hemisphere a part of a hollow cone, named the corona radiata^ the apex of which is towards the crus cerebri, and the concavity turned down- wards. The base of the cone is at the surface of the hemisphere, where the fibres pass into the grey cortex of the convolutions. From the foregoing description it will be evident that the fibres constituting the corona radiata are of two kinds, viz., those extend- ing without interruption from the cortex to the isthmus cerebri, and those uniting the cortex with the corpus striatum and optic thalamus. The transverse or commissural fibres connect the hemisijlieres of the cerebrum across the median plane. They give rise to the great commissure of the corpus callosum (p. 215), and to the anterior commissure (p. 227). These bodies have already been examined.FIBRES OF CEREBRUM. 233 Longitudinal or collateral fibres. These are connecting fibres Longitu- wliich pass from before backwards, uniting together parts of the '^^'"^^ ^^^^'^^ same hemisphere. The chief bands of this system are the follow- ing :—The fornix, tlie ttenia seniicircularis, the pineal stria, the longitudinal stria of the corpus callosum, and the cingulum. Other fibres pass in the medullary centre between adjoining and more distant convolutions, describing arches l)eneath the sulci : these are known as the association-fibres. The dissector may now make a transverse section of the remains Make of the left hemisphere at the fore part of the optic thalamus, Avhen lentlcui'ai'^ the form and relations of the lenticuhir nucleus and the claustrum, nucleus, Fig. 78.^^ togethei- with the position of the anterior commissure will be appa- rent (fig. 74). Cuts may al«o be made into the geniculate bodies to sliow the geniculate grey nuclei within them. Finally, by dividing transversely the left half of the midbrain and mesen- througli the superior (piadrigeminal body, there will be seen the grey matter of that eminence, the crusta and tegmentum separated by the substantia nigra, tlie red nucleus of the tegmentum, and the grey matter of the Sylvian a(|ueduct (fig. 78). Sectiox V. THE CEREBELLUM. . Dissection. The cerebellum (hg. 64, b) is to be separated from prepare the remains of the cerebrum l)y carrying the knife through the'^"'t'^'^"' ; ..r^ ■ Transverse section of the upper part of the midbrain. (After Obersteiner.)234 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. Pavts to be separated from one another. Form and l)osition of cerebellum. Division into two. No groove- on the upper surface; halves joined by upper worm. Horizontal fissure. A hollow below, Avhicli is called valley, and contains lower worm. «urfEicc foliated. Between iolia are sulci. Many folia are hidden. Arrange- ment in worm. optic thalamus, so that the small brain, the corpora (|uadrigemiiia, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata may remain united together. Any remaining pia mater is to be carefully removed from the median groove on the under surface ; and the different bodies in that hollow are to be separated from one another. Lastly, the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a deep sulcus at the circumference, which is continued from the crus, between the upper and under surfaces. The CEREBELLUM or small brain (fig. 79) is oval in shape, and flattened from above down. Its longest diameter, which is directed transversely, measures about four inches. This part of the encephalon is situate in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incom- pletely divided into two hemispheres ; the division being marked by a wide median groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior border into which the falx cerebelli projects. The narrower part uniting the two hemispheres is known as the ivorm (vermis). Upper surface. On the upper aspect the cerebellum is raised in the centre, and sloped towards tlie sides. There is not any median sulcus on this surface ; and the hemispheres are united by a central constricted part—the superior vermiform process. Separating the upper from the under surface, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which extends from the crus cerebelli in front to the median notch behind. The under surface of tlie cerebellum is convex on each side, where it is received into the lower fossge of the occipital bone ; and the hemispheres are separated by a median hollow—vallecula (fig. 79), which is widest in front where it lodges the upper end of the medulla oblongata : the hinder end of the vallecula is continued into the notch at the posterior border, and receives the falx cerebelli. At the bottom of the groove is an elongated mass named the inferior vermiform process {c to e), which corresponds to the central part uniting the hemispheres above. Tlie two vermiform processes constitute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum. Lamina and Sulci. The superficial part of the cerebellum is composed of grey substance, and is marked by concentric laminae or folia, which have their free edges towards the surface, and run in a curved direction with the concavity turned forwards. The laminw are separated by sulci, which are lined by pia mater, and are (»f variable depth. Only a small number of the laminae appear on the surface, for many others are placed on the sides of the larger pro- cesses, and are concealed within the deeper sulci. The lamina), especially the smaller ones, are frec^uently interrupted by the junction of neighbouring sulci. On the upper aspect many of the laminae pass continuously from one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; but those of the under surface of the two hemispheres are connected235' LAMINA AND LOBES. by means of the special commissural bodies composing the inferior vermiform process. The deepest sulci of the hemisphere divide the laminae into groups which are known as the lobes of the cerebellum. Lobes of the upper surface. On the upper surface the Upper ir.bes hemisphere is divided into two lobes by a deep sulcus which arches outwards and forwards from the hinder end of the superior vermiform process. The anterior or quadrate lobe is the larger, and anterioi-, its laminae pass without interruption through the elevated portion of the worm known as the monticidus (fig, 69) into the corre- s])onding lobe of the opposite hemisphere. The 2^osterior lobe is posterioi', semilunar in shape, and is connected internally with the one of the opposite side by a single lamina (folium cacuminis), which is deeply placed at the bottom of the median notch. Belonging to this surface aji^j central, there is also at the front of the vermiform process a small part. Fig. 79.* c(jmprising about eight lamina?, which overlaps the sui)erior peduncles, and is known as the central lobe (figs. 69 ; 72). The lobes of the under surface of the hemisphere (fig. 79) ^re^*^ are five in number. Beginning l^ehind, there is first the 'posterior posterior. lobe (k), of a semilunar form, like that of the upjier surface, from which it is separated by tlie great horizontal fissure ; next comes tlie slender lobe (between h and i), composed of three or four parallel siendor, laminae ; and then the larger biventral lobe, triangular in sliape, and biveutrai, subdivided into two chief parts (^ and h). The other two lobes, although smaller, are more distinct ; one is the amygdaloid lobe (g), amygdaloid, Avhich lies to the inner side of the biventral lobe, and projects into the vallecula, touching the medulla oblongata ; and the other is a * Under surface of the cerebellum, the medulla oblongata being cut away in greater part. a. Pons Varolii, h. Medulla oblongata, cut through. r. to e. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of—c. Uvula, d. Pyramid. e. Tuber valvulse. Lobes of the under surface. /. Flocculus. (/. Amygdaloid, h, i. Biventral. Between i and Tc. Slender. Tc. Posterior. 3. Third nerve attached to the crus cerebri, 5. Fifth nerve.DISSECTIOiX OF THE CEREBELLUM. 2:36 and flocculus. Lower worm includes tuber valvula', pyramid, uvula, nodule, furrowed band, and inferior medullary velum. Dissection. small conical part named the flocculus or suhpeduncular lobe (/), which is placed in front of the biventral lobe, and curves upwards round the lower border of the crus cerebelli, being attached to the general mass of the small brain only by a narrow white stalk. Parts op the inferior vermiform process (fig. 69). On the inferior vermiform process there are seen, from behind forwards —first a small eminence, comprising seven or eight narrow trans- verse laminse which unite the posterior infeiior and slender lobes of the two sides, and named titber valvulce (fig. 79, e) ; next a larger, tongue-shaped projection, which serves as a commissure to the biven- tral lobes, and is called iho,pyramid (d) ; and then a narrow elongated part—the uvula (c), at the anterior extremity of which is the rounded prominence of the nodule. The uvula is connected to the amygdaloid lobe on each side by a grey strip named the furrovxd hand, and the nodule to the fl(jcculus by a thin white lamina—the inferior medullary velum, but to see these parts the following dissection must be made. Dissection. Tlie biventral and slender lobes are to be sliced off on the left side, so that the amv<>daloid lobe mav be everted from tlie Fi£T. 80. valley (fig. 80). By this proceeding the stalk of the flocculus is exposed, and is seen to be continued into the thin and soft white layer of the inferior medullary velum (6), which joins the nodule internally : beneath the velum a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band {d) is also exposed on the side of the uvula. Inferior The inferior medullary velum is a thin white layer which forms a v^lum!^'*^ commissure to the flocculi, and is connected to the upper surface of the nodule in the middle. Its exposed part on each side, between the flocculus and the nodule, is semilunar in shape, and the anterior edge is free ; but behind, it is continued into the meduUaiy centre of the cerebellum (fig. 69). * View fronj behind of the under surface of the cerebellum, with some of the lobes removed to show the inferior medullary velum, a. Uvula. 1). In- ferior medullary velum with a bit of whale-bone under it. c. Flocculus. (1. Furrowed band. e. Pyramid. /. Amygdaloid lobe, turned aside. (J. Medulla oblongata raised, showing j)osterior surface.INTERNAL STRUCTUEE. The fv.rroired band (fig. 80, d) is a narrow ridge of grey matter, Furrowed notched on the surface, which passes from the side of the uvula to the constricted base of the amygdaloid lobe. It lies along the attached posterior margin of the inferior medullary velum. Structure of the Cerebellum. The interior of the cerebellum Cerebeihuu c(msists ( tf a large white mass—the medullary centre, from which a'^whit? offsets pioceed to the lamina? and to other parts of the encephalon. medullary The medullary centre is surrounded, except in front, where the ^^"^'^ }>rocesses to other parts of the brain (peduncles of the cerebellum) issue from it, l)y a superficial layer of grey substance—the cortex 0/and grey the ceirbeUum ; and other small masses of grey matter are embedded in it. Structure of tlie lamina'. The laminre are seen in the section that Laminrt' has been made of the under vjart of the left hemisphere to consist ofS'^'J' , . , . , ^ externally, a grey external portion envelopmg a white centre (fig. 72). The and white grey matter is subdivided into two layers, the superficial of which is lighter and clear, while the deeper stratum is darker and of a rust-colour. The white part is derived from the medullary centre, Avhich sends off numerous j^rocesses to tlie lobes and the bodies ccmiposing the worm, and these, dividing like the branches of a tree, end in small offsets whicli enter the several laminte. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the medullary centre, with Dissection, its contained corpus dentatum, remove all the laminae from the upper surface on the left side. This dissection may be accomplished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the anterior and ])osterior lobes of the upper aspect. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices may be made anteriorly till it is reached. The medullary centre of tlie cerebellum forms a large oval mass in White each hemisphere, but is flattened and narrow in the middle between ^^^^^^'^ tlie vermiform, processes (hg. 69). The lateral part contains the grey corpus dentatum, and is continued in front into a large stalk- like process, which becomes divided into the three peduncles. From its surface, as already stated, offsets are furnished to the different lobes and laminae. The white centre is composed mainly of the consists of fibres of the peduncles radiating to the cortical grey matter; but radiating, there are in addition, as in the cerebrum, commissural fibres between commis- the two hemispheres, which are most developed at the fore part of the superior vermiform process, and at the back close to the median ^"[j^^^^.^^^ notch, as well as a system of association-fibres uniting the laminae fibres, beneath the sulci. The cmyus dentatHm iti situate in the inner part of the white mass Dentate of the hemisphere, and resembles the nucleus in the olivary body of si^ultion, the medulla oblongata. It measures about three-quarters of an inch from before back, and consists of a plicated capsule, which g^^'J^,,^,^^^.^ Avhen cut across appears as a thin, wavy, greyish-yellow line : the bag is open at the fore and inner part, and encloses a core of white substance. Through its aperture issues a band of fibres to join the superior peduncle.DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. Between the two dentate bodies, embedded in the central white matter, are some smaller portions of grey substance, the chief of which is an oval mass on each side, nearly half an inch long, lying close to the middle line in the fore part of the suj)erior vermiform process, and known as the roof-nucleus from its relation to the fourth ventricle (fig. 69). Peduncles op the cerebellum (fig. 77). These are three in number on each side, an upper passing to the cerebrum, a middle (^) to the pons, and an inferior (^) to the medulla oblongata. The superior pedmicle (processus ad cerebrum; fig. 72, I) is directed forwards, and disappears beneath the corpora quadrigemina. It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The processes of the two sides are nnited by the valve of Vieussens (Jc). Its fibres are derived mainly from the interior of the dentate body, bnt a few are added from the white centre of the hemisphere and the worm. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the superior peduncle enters the tegmentum of the crus cerebri, and crosses the middle line decussating with the one of the opposite side (fig. 75). The fibres are then connected with the red nucleus (p. 205), and are continued with the longitudinal teg- mental fibres to tlie optic thalamus. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, is a thin translucent white layer which enters into the roof of the npper part of the fourth ventricle (fig. 72, k). It is narrow in front, but widens behind, where it is continued into the medullary centre of the worm (fig, 69). On each side it joins the superior peduncle. Near the lamina quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to tlie valve : and its npper surface is covered by four or five small trans- verse grey ridges, constituting the lingula (fig. 81). The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem; fig. 81, mp), commonly named the crus cerebelli, is the largest of the three processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the hemisphere, and are directed forwards to the pons, of which they form the transverse fibres (p. 202). The inferior pedu7icle (processus ad medullam; fig. 81, ip) passes downwards to the medulla oblongata, where it is known as the restiform body. Its fibres begin chiefly in the laminae of the npper surface of the hemisphere. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Dissection. One other section (fig. 72) must be made to expose the fourth ventricle. The cerebellum still resting on its under surface, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes ; and then the structure of the worm, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be observed on separating the halves of the cerebellum. Structure of the worm (fig. 69). The upper and lower vermiform processes of the cerebellnm are united in one central piece Avhich connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this connect- ing piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellnm, viz., a central white portion and investing laminae. Here the branching239 FOURTH VENTRICLE. appearance of a tree (arljor vit«) is best seen, in consequence of tlie laminae being more divided, and the white central stalk being thinner and more ramified. The FOURTH ventriclp: (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons (figs. 69 ; 72). It has the form of a lozenge, with the ]>oints placed upwards and downwards. The upper angle reaches as high as the upper border of the pons ; and the lower, nearly to the level of the lower end of tlie olivary body. Its greatest breadth is opposite the lower edge of the pons ; and a transverse line in this .situation would divide the hol- low into two triangular portions —upper and lower. The lower lialf has been named calamus inriptorim from its resemblance to a writing pen. The lateral hoiimlaries are more marked above than l)elow. For about half way down the cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (tig. 72, /), which, projecting over it, forms part (jf the roof ; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform Ijod}^, witli the clava of the funiculus gracilis (tig. 81, d) at the inferior extremity. At the lower bordei- of the middle peduncle of the cere- ])ellum a lateral process of the cavity extends- outwards over the surface of the restiform body, l)eing bounded below by a narrow white streak called the lu/ula (tig. 81, on the right side). The roof of the space is formed above by the valve of Vieussens with the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and by the inferior medullary velum and nodule of the inferior vermiform process ; below by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the medulla oblongata. Between the valve of Vieussens and the Fourth ventrifle: form and extent, breadth : lateral recess. Roof. apex of which is directed towards the medullary centre of the worm (fig. 69). * Back of medulla oblongata and pons, sliowing the floor of the fourth ventricle. /. Fillet, sp. Superior, mp. Middle, and ip. Inferior peduncle of the cerebellum : attached to the superior peduncle on the left side is the half of the superior medullary velum, covered by the lingula. ft. Fasciculus teres. fs. Superior fovea, fi. Inferior fovea. a st. Auditory striae. rb. Restiform body. cL Clava. Crossing the restiform body of the right side, below the auditory stria", is the lignla.240 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. Floor; objects in it are a median groove. fasciculus teres, a\iditory .stria;, superior ;ukI inferior fovea, auditory tubercle, nucleus of sixth nerve, and locus Cifiruleus. Openings into other cavities. Clioroid plexus of cavity. Grey layer of floor. Nerve nuclei in and near The floor of the ventricle (fig. 81) is coiistitiitecl by the posterior surface of the iiieclulhi oblongata and pons, and is greyisli in colour. Along tlie centre is a median groove, which ends below, near the point of the calamus, in a minute hole—the aperture of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped eleva- tion, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres (ft). This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and well defined below, but less distinct above. Its widest part is opposite the centre of the ventricle. Crossing the Hoor on each side, at the lower border of the pons,, are some white lines—the auditory strix {a st), which vary much in their arrangement: they issue from the median groove, and pass outwards to the auditory nerve (p. 192). The fasciculus teres is limited externall}^ by two small depressions —the swperior and inferior fovece, separated by the auditory strise. The superior (fs) is the broader, and is connected to the lower one by a faint groove. The inferior fovea (fi) is well marked, and has the form of the letter V inverted. The triangular portion between the two branches is of a darker colour than the surface on each side, and is named the ala cinerea (fig. 82, ac) : it corresponds to the nucleus of the vagus nerve. On the outer side of the fovea the surface is elevated over the principal nucleus of the auditory nerve, forming the auditor]] tuharle (at), which is crossed by the auditory strife. In the upper half of the floor of the ventricle there may be seen^ on the inner side of the superior fovea, a rounded elevation of the fasciculus teres, produced by the nucleus of the sixth nerve, with the deep part of the facial arching round it (p. 191). And la,stly, above the superior fovea is a narrow, slightly depressed area of a bluish colour (locus cseruleus), caused by a deposit of A^ery dark grey substance (substantia ferruginea) beneath the thin surface-layer. The fourth ventricle communicates above with the third ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and with the subarachnoid space through an aperture in the pia mater between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Below, it opens into the central canal of the cord. It is lined by ependyma, the epithelium of which is continued over the j)ia mater in the roof, and prolonged ujjwards and down- wards into the canals leading from the ventricle. Projecting into the lower half of the ventricle is a vascular fold on each side—-choroid plexus, similar to the body of the same name in the lateral and third ventricles. It is attached to the inner surface of the pia mater which closes the ventricle between the medulla and the cerebellum, and extends from the point of the calamus scriptorius to the extremity of the lateral recess of the cavity. It receives branches from the inferior cerebellar artery. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by a layer of grey matter, which is continuous below with the grey commissure of the cord, and above with the grey substance of the aqueduct. Nuclei of cranial nerves (fig. 82). In the dorsal portion of the medulla oblongata and pons are situate the collections of nerve-NUCLEI OF CRANIAL NERVES. 211 ninth, and eighth nerves. cells from wliich many of tlie cranial nerves take tlieir origin. Some of these appear in the floor of the fourth ventricle, while floor of others are placed a little below the surface. ^^ntricie Beneath the calamus scriptorius, and in the portion of the floor lower of the cavity formed by the medulla oblongata, are the nuclei of half of floor . . o ' four nuclei the twelftli, tenth, ninth and eighth nerves. The hijpoylossal nucleus viz., (XII ) extends through nearly the whole length of the medulla ob- of twelfth, longata ; its lower part is hidden, lying in front of the central canal below the level of the fourth ven- tricle, but its upper half approaclies the surface in the lower portion of the fasciculus teres. The 7mdeus of tJic nu/us (X) corresponds to the ala ci- nerea, and is continued above into the (jlosso-jjJiaryngeal nucleus (IX) Avhich lies beneath the inferior fovea. The ]iosition of the inrur or principal au- ditory nuchas (Villi) is indicated by the auditory tubercle. In the Innder part of the pons, and beneath the upper half of the floor ol' the A'cntricle, are nuclei of the fifth (two), sixth, seventh and eighth nerves, ' \mt only that of the sixth is indicated by a superficial prominence. The nucleus of the sixth (VI) lies beneath the elevation of the fasciculus teres above the auditory strise. The facial nucleus (VII) is placed external to and deeper than the last ; and the motor nucleus of thr Jijlk vcrce {Vm) is above that of the focial. The sensory nucleus of tJie fifth (Vs) two of fifth, lies external to the foregoing, and just beyond the lateral margin of the ventricle. The outer auditory nucleus (VIIIo) is situate at the lateral angle and outer ■■1 . T n T 1 1-^ • of eighth. ot the ventricle, close above the auditory strite. Above the fourth ventricle, in the grey matter surrounding the ^jj ^j'J^-^Jf^" a(|ueduct of Sylvius, are the nuclei of the fourth (IV) and third (III) vil%f nerves in the floor, and the nucleus of the descending mot of the fifth f^^^^^i^ (Vf?) on the side of the canaL flfth nerves. f sixth, seventh '* Dicigram showing the position of the nerve-nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Roman numbers indicate the nuclei of the corre- sponding nerves. Vf^. Nucleus of the descending root, Ym. Motor nucleus, and Ys. Sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve. VIIIo, Outer, and VIII/. Inner auditory nucleus. XL Upper part of the spinal accessory nucleus. On the left side : cq. Position of the corpora quadrigeniina. ot. Auditory tubercle. nr. Ala cinerea.ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 242 TABLE OP THE CHIEF ARTERIES OP THE HEAD AND NECK. 1. Coiiunon I carotid. . I. External carotid. . 1. Bracliio- ) cephalic. , Internal carotid. . 1. Superior thyroid 2 lingual 3. facial 4. occipital 7. temporal \S. internal maxillary 1. Arteri* receptaculi 2. ophthalmic 5. posterior auricular 6. ascending pharyngeal THyoid branch -[ laryngeal (^thyroid. / Hyoid branch \ dorsal lingual i sublingual Cranine. Inferior palatine Ijraneh tonsillar glandular submental inferior labial lateral nasal ^angular. / Sterno-mastoid bvancli \ posterior cervical, rstylo-mastoid branch -| auricular V mastoid. ? Pharyngeal branches -| prevertebral \^meningeal. .Auricular ( parotid I transverse facial ■^1 miildle temporal j anterior temporal ^X)osterior temporal. /Inferior dental I large meningeal muscular posterior dental infraorbital spheno-palatine descending palatine Vidian pterygo-palatine. /Central of the retina ciliary lachrymal supraorbital muscular ethmoidal palpebral froiital nasal. 2. Subcla- ^ vian. . (1. Vertebral 2. internal mammary 3. thyroid axis . 4. superior intercostal. 3. posterior communieatinj 4. anterior cerebral 5. middle cerebral \6. choroid. Posterior meningeal posterior spinal anterior spinal inferior cerebellar \ transverse basilar anterior cerebellar .superior cerebellar 1 posterior cerebral. Inferior thyroid , suprascapular transverse cervical Deep cervical. rAscending cervical -| laryngeal thyroid. / Superficial cervical posterior scapular. 2. Left common carotid. Left subclavian.VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 243 TABLE OF THE CHIEF VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. ''Internal ju- gular Brachio- cephalic is joined by I. Lateral sinus ■2. inferior petrosal sinus. ' Superior longitudinal sinus j inferior longitudinal sinus 1 straiglit sinus I occipital sinus - superior petrosal sinus \ / Ca-\'er: fX oph nous sinus and ophthalmic veins. 3. pharynge 4. lingual rMeningeal branches I pre^■ertebral 1^ pharyngeal. /'Superficial dorsal - lingual venae comites i^ranine. Angular inferior jjalpebral lateral nasal 5. facial 'Supraorbital frontal palpebral nasal. , Nasal veins anterior internal max-J J^J^^^^^^^^^. p^^i^^j^g i^^'^y • • • • infraorbital ^ posterior dental. labial submental inferior palatine tonsillar glandular part of temporo-max- [ illary . . . . (See below.) 7. middle thyroid. subclavian . External jugular ^Anterior 1. Part of temporo- posterior maxillary vein, formed J middle temporal by temporal. . .1 parotid anterior auricular Hransverse facial. {Middle meningeal inferior dental deep temporal pterygoid masseteric. vertebral internal mammary inferior ^ thyroid. /■ Spinal J deep cervical . I anterior vertebral I highest intercostal. 2. posterior auricular 3. transA'^erse cervical 4. suprascapular >^ 5. anterior jugular. Occipitil ( Superficial cervical (posterior scapular. R 2CRANIAL J^ERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK 244 TABLE OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 1. First nerve 2. Second nei-ve 3. Third nerve 4. Fourtli nerve Filaments to the nose. To retina of the eyeball. To muscles of the orbit. To snjierior oblique nmscli Recurrent ' lachrymal. Ophthalmic j oplithalmic I lenticulai- uanslion superior maxil- lary frontal nasal ( Lachrymal (^palpebral. ( Supraorbital \ supratrochlear. To lenticular ganglion long ciliary nerves infratrochiear nt'sal. r To nasal , Connecting branches^ to third i ^ (. to sympa (, short ciliary nerves. Orbital branch . splieno-palatine posterior dental middle dental I anterior dental ' infraorbital. ■ Internal hranches ! ascending. ' To nasal ner^■e nerve ithetic ( Malar I tejnporal. I Nasal I naso-palatine. To the orbit. Meckel" I glion Fifth or trifacial ) nerve . . ^ inferior nuixil- lary otic ganglion submaxillary ganglion descendin Small part ge part nerve to intfii pterygoid. I Large palatine I small palatine (^external palatin l'Vidian 1^ pharyngeal. TDeep temporal J masseteric 'l buccal 1, pterygoid. Auriculo-tempora 1 lingual ( To facial nerve \ to symi^athetic. /Articular I to meatus parotid j auricidar [ temporal. To submaxillary ganglion to hypoglossal to the tongue. C'oimecting branches inferior dental To trunk of inferior maxillary to Jacobson's nerve to auriculo-temporal to sympathetic. / Mylo-hyoid ' dental mental brai +'^,. , rI'o tensor palati tor i"uscles |^^^^j^g^^^iyj^^j^^j^j_ /'To the lingual, Connecting branches-' chorda tympani, \ branches to glands ' and sympathetic. 1 and mucous nieni- ( brane of moutli.245 CRANIAL NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. TABLE OF THE CRANIAL NERVES Continued. e. Sixtli nerve To external rectus. r. Seventh nerve, oi- facial S. Ei.cliMi nerve, or anditory Nintli nci-ve, pharyngeal Connecting branches branches for tribution / To join auditory to Meckel's ganglion to tympanic, and syni- j pathetic nerves I chorda tympani. Posterior auricular j digastric branch stylo-hyoid branch ilis- I Connecting Ijranehes brandies for triV)ution temporo-facial cervico-facial To tlie facial ) upper ])art Mower part . , To vagus \ to synii>athcti(' icobson's nerve ■ h. /'To the pharynx (lis- \ tonsillitic branches . J to stylo-pharyngeus '.lingual. I Temporal . -J malar Unfraorbittii. ^ Buccal •j supramaxillary (, intramaxillarv. ,'To the common sac \ to the superior and ex- ) ternal semicircular canals. ,' To the cochlea ) to the saccule ) to the posterior semicir- cnlar canal. /'To sympathetic and otic I ganglion, ^supplies tympanum. 10. Tenth nerve, oi'^jiieumo- "astric . . . . C(Uinccting branches ' bi'auches foi- I tribution /Connecting T, -1 branches ] I. Eleventh nerve, or s])mal I accessory . . . "j i^j-anches for ti-ibution C(uinee.ting brandies Twelfth nerve or hypo- glossal . . . . branches for tribution / To glosso-pharyii.uejil ' to sympathetic auricular nerve I to hyjioglossal and cer- 1 vical nerves. Pliaryngeal , su]ierior laryngeal I cardiac nerves inferior larvn^ieal . . ( To pneumo-gastric . . I to the cervical plexus. dis- ( To sterno-niastoid and . i trapezius. ( To pneumo-gastric ' nerve" ■ ■ to sympathetic I to loop on atlas Vto lingual of fifth. /'Descending branch dis- ) thyro-hyoid nerve .') to genio-hyoid ' to lingual muscles. ' Extern a 1 1 ary ngeal ascending f^^ - mucous descending (membrane to join inferior laryngeal. Cardiac oesophageal, tracheal to inferior constrictor and muscles of larynx .to ioin superior laryngeal.246 SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. TABLE OF THE SriNAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVED OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Sj^inal Nerves. Anterior brandies The first four form the Cervical Plexus, which gives 'Superficial ascendinj. superficial descending deep internal ^'Icep external rSmall occipital nerve great auricular V. superficial cervical. f Acromial -| clavicular ' V.sternal. / To pneumo-gastric I to hypoglossal .1 to sympathetic j to ansa hypoglossi I to prevertebral muscles to diaphragm. To sterno-mastoid to levator anguli scapul to trapezius to join siJiual accessory. The cervical spinal nerves divide into posterior branches. The last four and part of first dor- J sal form the ( Brachial Plexus, ' which gives . /Are distributed to \ the muscles of the I back, and give oft' C cutaneous nerves. Branches above the clavicle . liranches below ,The rhomboid ner;'e I to phrenic nerve I suprascapular ner\ e, to subclaviuR posterior thoracic to scaleui muscles. ( Are dissected with the upi> I limb. Sympathetic Nerve. II , Superior cervical ganglion has . 2. Middle cervical ganglion 3. Inferior cervical \ ganglion Ascending branches, Avhich unite in plexuses external branches Carotid plexus,whi gives branches Cavernous plexus, which gives branches TTo tympanic plexus ch I to Vidian nerve to sixth nerves. and fifth cranial (To third cranial nerve 1 to fourth cranial nerve to ophthalmic nerve j to lenticular ganglion \to carotid arterv and branches. 'To join pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves to spinal nerves. / Pharyngeal branches (.superficial cardiac nerve. internal branches ^, branches to vessels . Nervi molles. j' External branches . To spinal nerv internal ( External Cinternal Middle cardiac nerve to supply thyroid body and join external laryngeal loop over subclavian artery. /To spinal nerves \ vertebral plexus. Inferior cardiac nerve.CHAPTER in. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Section I. THE WALL OF THE THORAX AND THE AXILLA. The wall of llie chest and the axilla, which are described in this Directions Section, are to l^e learnt within a fixed time, in order that the Jlss^JJtion examination of the thorax may he undertaken. While the dissection of the thorax is in progress, the student will have to discontinue his work on the upper limb ; but when that is finished, he must be ready to begin the part of the back that belongs to him. Position. The body lying on the back, the thorax is to be raised Position of to a convenient height by a Idock ; and the arm, being slightly ^^^"^ rotated outwards, is to be placed at a right angle with the trunk. Directions. Before the dissection is begun, attention should be given to the surface-marking ; and the prominences and depressions formed by the muscles, together with the parts of the bones that are to be recognised, should be noticed. TJie position of the chief blood-vessels is also to be ascertained. Surface-marking. On the front of the chest is seen the prominence Marking of of the mamma, large in the female, but small and rudimentary in ^^i^*^ «^ii"face. the male, with the nipple projecting from it near the centre. In tlie male, the nipple is placed most frequently over the fourth inter- " costal space, sometimes over the fifth lib, and occasionally at a still nfppie^'^ higher or lower leveh Its position in the female varies greatly with the development of the mamma. Between the arm and the chest is the hollow of the axilla, in the Armpit, outer part of which the large vessels and nerves of the limb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for in proportion as the arm is elevated, the folds bounding it in front and behind are carried upwards and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is diminished. In this part the skin is of a dark colour, and is furnished with hairs and large sweat-glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in diff'erent directions,, Head of while the fingers of one hand are placed in the armj)it, the heacl {gJt.^ ^'^ of the humerus may be recognised. On the outer side of the limb is the prominence of the shoulder ; Shoulder and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is formed inarch of bone front by the clavicle, behind and externally by the spine and the248 DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. Intermus- cular de- pressions. Arm : its prominence and groovch-. Promi- nences around the elbow-joint. Dissection to raise the integument. Eeflect skin. Fascipe: superficinl, and deep. thickest over axilla. Dissection of cutaneoiiE nerves of the chest: from cervi- cal plexus acromion process of tlie scapula. Continued downwards from about the middle of the clavicle is a slight depression between the pectoi'al and deltoid muscles, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove, extending outwards from the sternal end of the clavicle, corresponds with the interval between the clavicular and the sternal origins of the great pectoral muscle. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the biceps muscle; and on each side of that eminence is a groove, which subsides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow-joint. The inner of tlie two grooves is the deeper, and indicates the position of the l)rachial vessels. If the elbows-joint be slightly flexed, the j^rominences of the outer and inner condyles of the luimerus will be rendered evident, espe- cially the inner. Below the outer condyle, and separated from it by a slight interval, the head of the radius is placed ; it may be i-ecognised by rotating that bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the |)rominencc' of the olecranon ; and to the outer side of this, the capitellum forms a projection when the elbow is fully bent. Dissection. As the first step in the dissection, raise the skin from the side of the chest and the armpit, over the great pectoral muscle and the hollow of the axilla, l)y means of the following incisions :— One is to be made along the middle of the sternum. A second, carried along the clavicle for the inner two-thirds of its length, is to be continued over the front of the shoulder and arm to rather beyond the anterior fold of the armpit, and then to be turned across the inner surface of the arm as far as the hinder fold of the axilla. From the ensiform process a third cut is to be directed outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level with the posteiior fold of the armpit. The flaj) of skin thus marked out is to be reflected outwards beyond the axilla ; but it should be left attached to the body, in order that it may be used for the preservation of the part. The suhcufaneous fatty layer of the thorax resembles the same structure in other 2^arts of the body ; but in this region it does not usually contain much fat. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is the stronger deep fascia, which closely invests the muscles, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It is thin on the front of the chest, but becomes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over the armpit, will render evident its increased strength in this situa- tion, and the casing it gives to the muscles bounding the axilla ; and if the fore finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capability of confining an abscess in that hollow. . Dissection. The cutaneous nerves of the side of the chest are to be next sought. At the spots where they are to be found they are placed beneath the fat, which must be cut through to expose them ; and those over the clavicle lie also beneath the platysma muscle. Small vessels indicate the position of the nerves. Some of them (from the cervical plexus) cross the clavicle at249 CUTANEOUS NEllVES OF CHEST. the middle, and the inner end. Others (anteiior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one from each inter- costal space. And tlie rest (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about an inch behind the interior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal and inter- space except tlie first: as the last-mentioned nerves pierce the wall ^g^ves • ■of the thorax, they divide into anterior and posterior branches. The posterior branches of the highest two nerves are larger than nerve of the rest. They are to be followed across the armpit, and a junc- ^"''^^^f-'- tion is to be found there Avith a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Cutaneous xeiive.s from the cervical plexus. These cross J^"^*^^"^ JJJ** the clavicle and are distiibuted to the skin over the pectoral muscle, cervical The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the Plexus, bone, and reaches but a short distance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in nunilx^r and larger, cross the middle ■of the clavicle, and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralis major; they join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves. The Cutaneous Nerves of thk Thorax are derived from the trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs. Of these there intercostais; are two sets :—One set, lateral ciitaiicoiis iwrres of the thorax, arise in two rows, from those nerves about midway bet am'en 1])e spine and the sternum. The other set, anterior cutaneovs ncrrcs nf //u fJiorax, are the termi- nations of the same trunks at the. anterior ends of the intercostal .spaces. The anterior cutaneous nerves are slender filaments which One near pierce the pectoral muscle, and are directed outwards to supply the ""^^^^^ skin and the mammary gland. The ofiset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch from the cervical plexus. Small branches of the internal mammary vessels accompany these nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves (fig. 83) issue with companion The other vessels between the digitations of the sei-ratus magnus muscle, and thVchlst^; <livide into anterior and posterior branches. There is not usually miy lateral cutaneous nerve from the first intercostal trunk. The anterior off'ud.s P) ])v\ul over the pectoral muscle, and end these have ,1 . . ' , 1 ii 1 1 J.1 • anterior and m the integuments and the mammary gland : they increase m size downwards, and the lowest give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The cutaneous nerve of the second inter- costal trunk commonly wants the anterior offset. The loosterior offsets (^) end in the integuments over the latis- PJ|^^rior ftimus dorsi muscle and the l)ack of the scapula, and decrease in ^^"^ size from above down. The branch of the second intercostal nerve (') is larger than the One reaches T . -. . 7 -T. l^ . • ^1 r • f arm. rest, and is named intercosto-hmiieral Perforating the fascia ot the axilla, it is distributed to the skin of the arm (p. 277). As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two <3r more pieces, and is con- nected to the nerve of Wrisberg (^) by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal nerve gives filaments likewise Third nerve, to the armpit and the inner side of the arm.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 The breast: form and position; with its dimensions and weiffht. Position and form of the nipple: the areola colovir is variable ; skin lias iilands. Breast of the male. structure. Investint and fibrous tissue. Vesicles. Lobnles and lobes. Lactiferous ducts ; The Mamma is the gland for the secretion of the milk, and is situate on the lateral part of the front of the chest. Resting on the great pectoral muscle, it is nearly hemispherical in form, but most prominent at the inner and lower aspects. Its dimensions and weight vary greatly. In a breast not enlarged by lactation, the width is commonly about four inches. Longitudinally it extends from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the mamma ranges from six to eiglit ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or mamilla. This prominence is about half an inch or ratlier more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring— the areola, about an inch in width, the tint of which is influenced by the complexion of the body, and becomes darker during pregnancy and lactation. The skin of the nij)ple and areola is provided with numerous j)apillse and glands ; and on the surface are some small tubercles marking the position of the latter. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in general form, though it is much less developed ; and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola provided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. The mamma is a compound racemose gland, and con- sists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct. A layer of areolar tissue, containing masses of fat, surrounds the gland, and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes ; l3ut between the lobules of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty suljstance. Some fibrous septa fix the gland to the skin, and support it; these are the lirjamenta suspensoria of Astley Cooper. Vesicles. The little vesicles or alveoli at the ends of the most minute ducts are rounded in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury are just visible to the naked eye. Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. Lobules and lobes. A collection of the vesicles around their ducts forms a lobule, and by the union of the lobules the lobes are pro- duced. Of these there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named from their office galactophorous ; they converge to the areola, where they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sinuses) of one-sixth to one-third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become narrower ; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, they are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one another. * If the student has a male body, he may disregard the description of the mamma ; and if the body is a female, he may set aside the breast for a more convenient examination of its structure.THE AXILLA. 251 to open on tlie summit by apertures smaller tlian tlie canals, and open on end varying from the size of a bristle to that of a common pin. mppie. Nipple. The substance of the nipple is composed in great part ^g^^^j'^J^j^^^ of a network of interlacing bundles of plain muscular tissue, through nipple, which the lactiferous ducts pass to the surface. Some of the bundles extend from base to apex of the nipple ; and surrounding the base is a set of circular fibres, with which radiating bundles decussate. Blood-vessels.—The arteries are supplied by the axillary, internal manuiiary, Arteries of and intercostal, and enter both surfaces of the gland. The veins end prin- ^^^^ g^fmcl) cipally in the axillary and internal mammary trunks ; but others enter the and veins, intercostal veins. The nerves ai-e supplied from the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of Nerves, the thorax, viz., from the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves. The lymphatics of the inner side open into the sternal glands ; those of the Lymphatics, outer side pass to the axillary glands. Dissection (fig. 83). With the limb in the same position to the ^/p^g^ctori'i trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia and the fat from the muscle. surface of the great pectoral muscle. In cleaning the muscle the scalpel should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz., from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun at the lower border on the right side, but at the upper border on the left side. The fascia and the fat are to be taken from the axilla, without ^.^^OY*^ T , , . , of axilla, injury to the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands m the space. The dissection will be best executed by cleaning first the large axillary vessels at the outer part, Avhere these are about to enter the arm ; and then following their branches which are directed to the chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary, and the subscapular along the posterior boundary. With the latter vessels the middle and lower subscapular nerves are to be found, and turning backwards near the arm the circumflex artery and nerve. Some arterial twigs entering the axillary glands should also be traced out. In taking away the fascia and fat from the muscles at the back of Clean back the space, the small internal cutaneous branch of the musculo- ^ ^P^^^- spiral nerve (fig. 83, ^) should be looked for near the great vessels. The nerves of the brachial plexus are then to be defined. The Trace nerves smallest of these, which possibly may be destroyed, is the nerve of P^^^"^' Wrisberg : it lies close to the hinder edge of the axillary vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. When cleaning the serratus muscle on the ribs, the student is to and on inner seek on its surface the posterior thoracic nerve, and to trace the posterior ofi'sets of the intercostal nerves crossing the axilla. THE AXILLA. The axilla is the hollow between the arm and the chest (fig. 83). f^^f f^j!;" ..f It is somewhat pyramidal in form, with its apex directed upwards the armpit, to the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as follows :— Boundaries. In front and behind, the space is limited by the Boundaries:252 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. muscles passing from the trunk to the upper limb. In the anterior wall are the two pectoral muscles, but these take unequal shares in in front, its construction :—thus the pectoralis major (a) extends over the whole front of the space, reacliing from the clavicle to the edge of the anterior fold ; while tlie pectoralis minor (b) corresponds only and behind; to about the middle third of the wall. In the posterior boundary, from above downwards, lie the subscapularis (f), the latissimus dorsi muscle (d), and the teres major (e) : the free margin of this boundary, which is formed l)y the latissimus dorsi and teres major, is thicker and more prominent, especially near the arm, than tlie anterior. on the On the inner side of the axilla lie the first five ribs, with their inner, and intervening intercostal muscles, and the part of the serratus magnus outer sides; (^(j) taking origin from those bones. On the outer side the space has but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus and the . coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles (g and h). ap^x, The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the upper * View of the dissected axilla (Illustrations of Dissections), Muscles: a. Pectoralis major, b, Pectoralis minor, c. Serratus magnus. ]>. Latissimus dorsi. E. Teres major, f, Subscapularis. g. Coraco-brachialis. H. Biceps. Vessels: a. Axillary artery, h. Axillary vein. c. Subscapular A'ein. d. Subscapular artery, e. Posterior circumflex artery. Nerves: 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Ulnar. 4. Musculo-spiial. 5. Nerve of Wris- berg. 6. Internal cutaneous of musculo-spiral. 7. Intercosto-humeral. 8. Posterior, and 9, anterior branches of lateral cutaneous of the thorax.COIs^TENTS OF AXILLA. 253 margin of tlie scapula, and the first ril) ; and the fore finger may be introduced into the sj^ace for the purpose of ascertaining the upper boundaries, and the depth. The base of the pyramid is turned and i^a.se. downwards, aud is closed by the thick aponeurosis reaching from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. In the axilla are contained the axillary Contents of vessels and the brachial plexus, with their l)ranches; some branches spaco. of the intercostal nerves ; together witli lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. Position of the trunks of vessels and nerves. The large axillary Position of artery {a) and vein (6) cross the outer portion of the space in passing yes^pi... from the neck to the upper limb. The part of each vessel now seen and reia- lies close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior tions, fold of the armpit, and is covered only by the common superficial coverings, viz., the skin, the fatty layer or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the suljscapularis (f) and the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles (d and e). To their outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle (g). On looking into the space from below, tiie axillary vein (i) lies with vein on the thoracic side of the artery. After the vein has been drawn aside, the artery will be seen antl nerves. ■ to lie amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, luu ing the median trunk (^) to the outer side, and the ulnar and the small nerve of Wrisberg (^) to the inner side ; the internal cutaneous (^) generally superficial to, and the musculo-spiral (^) and circumflex nerves be- neath it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the shoulder. The vein receives some branches in this spot. Position of the branches of vessels and licrirs. The several branches Situation of of the vessels and nerves have tlie undermentioned position with ^'"a"^'^^'* • respect to the boundaries :— Close to the anterior fold, and concealed by it, the long thoracic »i fi'^^'^tj artery runs to the side of the chest: and taking the same direction, though nearer-the middle of tlie hollow, are the small external mammary artery and vein. Extending along the posterior wall, within its free margin and i^ehind, in contact with the edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the sub- scapular vessels and nerves {d) ; and near the humeral end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels (c) and the circumflex nerve bend backwards beneath the large trunks. On the inner boundary, at the upper part, are a few small branches inside, of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle; but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free from vessels with respect to any surgical operation. Lying on the surface of the serratus magnus, is the nerve to that muscle ; and perforathig the inner boundary of the space, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—the highest of which is directed across the axilla to the arm, and receives the name intercosto-humeral ('). The lymjjhatic glands of the axilla are arraiiged in three sets: one Lynipiiatic is placed along the inner side of the great blood-vessels ; another S^^i^^^-254 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIME. of the axilla; and vessels joining them. Great pectoral muscle : clavicular and sterno- costal insertion into humerus; relations; interval between the two parts. Use; flexes, rotates in, and adducts arm: raises ribs. Dissection. Cut clavicu- lar part of the pectoral. occupies the hinder part of the space, lying near the subscapular vessels ; and the third accompanies the long thoracic artery, beneath the margin of the pectoralis major. Commonly there are in all ten or twelve ; but in number and size they vary much. Small twigs from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to them. The glands 1)y the side of the blood-vessels receive the lymphatics of the arm ; those along the hinder boundary are joined by the lymphatics of the side of the chest and of the back; and those beneath the pectoral muscle by the lymphatics of the front of the chest, as well as by some from the mamma. The efferent vessels unite to form a trunk, which opens into the lymphatic duct of the neck of the same side ; or some may enter separately the subclavian vein. The PECTORALIS MAJOR (a) is triangular in shape, with the base at the sternum, and the apex at the arm. It arises from the inner half of the front of the clavicle, from the anterior surface of the sternum and the cartilages of the upper six ribs, and below from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this wide origin the fibres take different directions—those from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, while the lower ones ascend behind the middle porti<ui of the muscle; and all end in a. tendon, which is inserted into the pectoral ridge on the outer side of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle bounds the axilla in front, and its 1 ower border forms the anterior fold of the hollow. Covering it are the integuments, with the mamma and the thin deep fascia, as well as the platysma close to the clavicle. The upper border is adjacent to the deltoid muscle, the cephalic vein and a small artery lying between tlie two. Between the clavicular and sternal origins is a narrow interval, which corresponds to a depression on the surface. The parts beneath the pectoralis major will be seen subsequently. Action. If the humerus is hanging, the muscle Avill move for- wards the limb until the elbow reaches the front of the trunk, and will rotate it in. When the limb is raised, the jiectoralis depresses and adducts it; and acting with other muscles inserted into the humerus, it may dis- locate the head of that bone when the lower end is raised and fixed, as in a fall on the elbow. Supposing both limbs fixed, as in climbing, the trunk will be raised by both muscles ; and the lower fibres can elevate the ribs in laborious breathing. Dissection (fig. 84). The great pectoral muscle is to be cut across now in the following manner :— Only the clavicular part is to be first divided, so that the branches of nerve and artery to the muscle may be found. Kefiect the cut piece of the muscle, and press the limb against the edge of the table, for the purpose of raising the clavicle and rendering tight the fascia attached to that bone; on carefully reinoving the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged from the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, the membranous costo-coracoid sheath \Yi\\ be seen close to the clavicle, covering the axillary vessels and nerves.255 PECTORALIS MINOR. At this stage the cephalic vein is to be defined as it crosses in- Trace wards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), ""'^^^^^^ ^^"^ and the acromio-thoracic vessels, which perforate the sheath around the axillary trunks, are to be followed to the pectoral muscle. The remaining part of the pectoral is major may be cut about its Divide tiie centre^ and the jjieces thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat muscie^tlf coming into view is to be removed; and the tendon of the pectoralis its is to be followed to the humerus. Insertion of the ijedoroMs major. The tendon of the pectoralis Tendon of consists of two layers, anterior and posterior, at its attachment to pecto^-aiis*^^ the bone ;—the anterior receives the clavicular and upper sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a half wide, and sends upwards one expansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the shoulder- joint, and another downwards to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered hj the pectoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers Parts the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, JJJe nufsde the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillary vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and on the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles near the humerus. The PECTORALIS MINOR (fig. 84, b) is also triangular in shape. Small and extends from the thorax to the shoulder. It arises from the JJJ^usclT- third, fourth and fifth ribs, immediately external to their cartilages, p^igin from by tendinous slips which are Ijlended with the aponeuroses in the "^^^; intercostal spaces. The fibres converge to their insertion into the insertion anterior half of the coracoid process of the scapula, at its upper and "oraooid inner part. process; This muscle assists the pectoralis major in forming the anterior relations; wall of the axilla, and near its insertion it lies over the large vessels and the accomjDanying nerves. The ui)per border is sej^arated from the clavicle by a triangular interval. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major close to the chest; and along it the long thoracic vessels lie. The tendon of insertion is united with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. Action. It draws the scapula forwards and downwards; and use. in laborious breathing it liecomes an inspiratory muscle, taking its fixed point at the shoulder. Dissection. Supposing the clavicle raised by pressing backwards Dissection the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the vessels g^eath and will be demonstrated b}^ making a transverse cut below the costo- costo-co- coracoid membrane (rig. 84), so that the handle of the scalpel can fascia. Ije passed beneath it. Then, by dividing the membrane itself near the clavicle and raising the lower border of the subclavius, this muscle will be seen to be encased by fascia, which is attached to the bone both before and behind it. The costo-coracoid membrane or ligament (fig. 84) is a firm Costo-cora-DISSECTIOJS: OF THE UPPER LIMB. 266 coid mem- brane conceals subclavius, and joins sheath of A'essels. Axillary sheath : strongest in front. Clean the vessels. Subclavius muscle is attached to clavicle and first rib: relations; Axillary artery: extent, The depth varies. Eelations: Above small pectoral: with muscles, vessels, band whicli receives this name from its attachment on the one side to the rib, and on the other to the coracoid process of the scapnla. Between these points it is inserted into the clavicle, enclosing the subclavius muscle, and is joined by the piece of fascia that encases the small pectoral muscle. The part of the membrane behind the subclavius is blended with the front of the axillary sheath. The sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves (e) is a funnel- shaped tube, prolonged from the fascia covering the scaleni muscles in the lower part of the neck. It is strongest near the subclavius muscle, where the costo-coracoid band joins it. The anterior part of the sheath is perforated by the cephalic vein (e), the acromio- thoracic artery (a), and the anterior thoracic nerves and ^). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, the remains of it are to be taken away ; and the subclavius muscle, and the axillary vessels and nerves with their Ijranches, are to be carefully cleaned. The SUBCLAVIUS (tig. 84, d) is a small elongated muscle, placed below the clavicle. It arises by a tendon from the first rib and its cartilage at their junction, in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres pass outwards and somewhat upwards, and are inserted into a groove on the under surface of the clavicle, which reaches between the two rough impressions for the costo- and coraco-clavi- cular ligaments. The muscle crosses the large vessels and nerves of the limb, and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula. The AXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 84) coutiuues the subclavian trunk to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to which this name is applied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (h). In the axillary space its position will be marked by a line from the centre of the clavicle to the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis. Its direction will vary with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for when the arm lies by the side of the body the vessel is arched, its convexity being upwards ; but when the limb is raised to the level of the shoulder, it is somewhat curved in the ojDposite direction. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeply placed, but it becomes sujoerficial as it approaches the arm. Its relations with the surrounding objects are numerous ; and the description of these will be methodised by dividing the artery into three parts—one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. Above the small 'pectoral uiuscle, the artery is contained in the axillary sheath of membrane (e), and is concealed by the clavi- cular portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus magnus. To the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein ((/). The cephalic vein (e) and offsets of the acromio-thoracic vessels cross over it.257 AXILLARY ARTERY. On the acromial side lie the cords of the brachial plexus ; and nerve superficial to it is the external anterior thoracic nerve; and beneath it is the posterior thoracic. In its second 'part, the pectoralis minor and major (b and a) are Beneath superficial to the artery. But there is not any muscle immediately pectoral: in contact behind, for the vessel is placed across the top of the ^^^^^^ ^ i muscles, axilla, particularly when the limb is in the position required by the dissection. The companion vein (cj) lies to the inner side, but separated from vein, the arterial trunk by the inner cord of the brachial plexus. In this position the cords of the brachial plexus lie around it, one and nerves being outside, another inside, and the third behind the artery. Beyond the 'pectoralis minor, the artery is at first concealed by And beyond the lower border of the great pectoral muscle (a) ; but thence to pectoral: * Second view of the dissection of the chest (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles and fascice: a. Pectoralis major, cut. b. Pectoralis minor, c. Ser- ratus magnus. d. Suhclavius, encased in the costo-coracoid membrane. J3. Axillary sheath, f. Subscapularis. G. Latissimus dorsi. h. Teres majoi". J. Coraco-brachialis. k. Biceps. Vessels: a. Acromio-thoracic branch. b. Long thoracic branch, c. Subscapular branch, c?. Axillary artery, e. Ce- phalic vein. /. Brachial veins joining the axillary vein, g. Nerves: 1 and 2. Anterior thoracic branches. 3. Long subscapular branch. 4. Nerve to the serratus. 5. Intercosto-humeral. s258 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. with muscles, with vein, and nerves. Branches to the thorax and the shoulder. Upper thoracic. Acromio- thoracic : offsets are internal. external. ascending, and de- scending. Alar tho- racic. Long tho- racic. External mammary. its termination it is covered only by tlie integuments and the fascia. Beneath it are suLscapularis muscle (f) and the tendons of the latissinms and teres (g and h). To the outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle (j). The axillary vein remains on the thoracic side of the artery. Here the artery lies in the midst of the large trunks of nerves into which the brachial plexus has been resolved :—On the outer side is the median nerve, with the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance ; and on the inner side are the ulnar, and the nerve of Wrisberg. Superficial to the vessel is the internal cutaneous ; and behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of the thorax and the shoulder. The thoracic branches are four in number ; two (superficial and acromio-thoracic) arise from the artery above the pectoralis minor ; one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle ; and one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two circumflex ; they arise close together, at the border of the subscapularis muscle. The last ofi'sets are the external mammary and some muscular twigs. The superior thoracic branch is the highest and smallest ofi'set, and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side of the chest, anastomosing with the intercostal arteries. The acromio-thoracic branch (fig. 84, a) is a short trunk on the front of the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pecto- ralis minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and deltoid muscles. Its principal oft'sets are directed inwards and outwards :— a. The inner or thoracic set supply the pectoral muscles, and give a few offsets to the side of the chest, which anastomose with the intercostal and other thoracic arteries. 6. The outer or acromial set enter the deltoid, and some twigs perforate that muscle to anastomose over the acromion with a branch of the suprascapular artery (p. 394). c. A small clavicular branch ascends to the subclavius muscle. d. The humeral branch runs downwards with the cephalic vein between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, to which it is dis- tributed. The alar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, its place being frequently taken by offsets of the subscapular and long thoracic arteries : it is distributed to the glands and fat of the axilla. The long thoracic branch (fig, 84, b) is directed along the border of the pectoralis minor to about the fifth intercostal space ; it supplies the pectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other branches, with the intercostal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. An external mammary artery is frequently met with, especially in the female ; its position is near the middle of the axilla with a companion vein. It supplies the glands, and ends in the wall of the thorax below the preceding.259 AXILLARY VEIN. The subscapular branch (fig. 84, c) courses with a nerve of the Subscapular same name along the subscapularis, as far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magnus, latissimus clorsi, and teres major muscles ; it gives many oftsets to the glands of the space. Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable dorsal a dorsal branch round the edge of the subscapular muscle : this gives an infrascapiilar offset to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then which give turns to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dis- ^"^1'^- ° sected (p. 274). ^^^f^^^^' The subscapular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. The circumflex branches wind round the humerus below the sub- Anterior Bcapular muscle. The anterior is small, and passes outwards beneath posterior the coraco-brachialis and biceps. The posterior is much larger, and circumflex, disappears with the companion nerve between the subscapularis and teres major muscles. They will be followed in the dissection of the shoulder (p. 269). Small muscular offsets enter the coraco-brachialis muscle. Muscular. The AXILLARY VEIN ((/) continues upwards the basilic vein of the Axillary arm, and has the same extent as the axillary artery. It lies to the ^^^^ • thoracic side of its artery, and receives corresponding thoracic and yeiations^-^ shoulder branches. Opj^osite the subscapular muscle it is joined branches.' externally by a large vein, which is formed by the imion of the venfB comites of the brachial artery ; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissection. To follow out the branches of the brachial plexus, cut Dissection through the pectoralis minor near its insertion into the coracoid piexus^.^^*^ process, and turn it towards the chest, but without injuring the thoracic nerves. The axillary vessels are next to be divided below the second rib,* and to be drawn down with hooks ; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of tlie plexus. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS (fig. 85) results from the interlacement of Nerves the anterior branches of the lower four cervical nerves and the ^rach^l larger part of the first dorsal; and a slip is added to it above from plexus, the lowest nerve in the cervical plexus. It is placed successively situation in the neck and the axilla, and ends opposite the coracoid process in the nerves of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of the head and neck (p. 72). The andrela- part below the clavicle has the same relations to surrounding muscles as the axillary artery ; and in it the nerve-trunks are disposed as follows :— As the plexus enters the axilla it consists of three cords, inner. The nerves outer, and posterior, which lie together in a bundle on the outer side coi™g*^^^® of the artery. Beneath the pectoralis minor the three cords embrace around the ^ ^ artery, *" The student must be careful not to cut the vessels higher than the spot jnentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck. s 2DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. the vessel, being placed as their names indicate—the first inside, the second outside and the third behind the artery. Near the lower Diagram of the brachial plexus. The dotted Hne indicates the level at which the cords are crossed by the clavicle, c iv. to c viii. Fourth to eighth cervical nerves, d i. and d ii. First and second dorsal nerves. 1 i and 2 i. First and second intercostal nerves. iU. Intercosto-humeral nerve, phr. Phrenic nerve. Supraclavicular branches of brachial plexus : rh. Branch to rhomboids, sps. Suprascapular, sc. Bi'anch to subclavius. pt. Posterior thoracic. Infraclavicular branches: From outer cord—eat. External anterior thoracic, mc. Musculo-cutaneous. m. Median. From inner cord—iat. Internal an- terior thoracic, w. Nerve of Wrisberg. ic. Internal cutaneous, u. Ulnar, m. Median. From posterior cord—s. 1. Upper, s 2. Middle, and s 3. Lower subscapular, c. Circumflex, ms. Musculo-spiral.261 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. edge of the small pectoral muscle, the cords divide to form the large nerves of the limb. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle arise from the which give several cords in the following way :— branches: The outer cord furnishes one anterior thoracic branch (eat), the from the musculo-cutaneous (mc), and the outer head of the median nerve (m). The inner cord gives origin to a second anterior thoracic nerve inner, and (iat), the internal cutaneous (ic), the nerve of Wrisberg (w), the inner head of the median (m), and the ulnar nerve (u). The posterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches (si, s2, and posterior s3), and ends in the circumflex (c) and musculo-spiral (ms) trunks, ' Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are exposed to their The follow- termination at present; the remaining nerves will be seen in the now^^^-i?— subsequent dissections. The anterior thoracic branches (fig. 84, ^ and ^), two in number. Two anterior are named outer and inner, like the cords from which they come. thoracic: The outer nerve crosses over the axillary artery, to the under outer, surface of the great pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it communicates with the following branch. The inner nerve comes forwards between the artery and vein, and and inner, after receiving the oflset from the outer, ends in many branches to the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the great pectoral muscle, after passing either through the pectoralis minor or above its border. The subscapular nerves are three in number, and supply the Three sul..- niuscles bounding the axilla behind :— scapular: The upper nerve is the smallest, and enters the upper part of the to subsca- , V • 1 ill pularis, subscapuiaris muscle. The middle or long subscapular nerve accompanies the subscapular latissimus artery along the posterior wall of the axilla, and supplies the ' latissimus dorsi muscle. The lower subscapular nerve gives a branch to the lower part of the and teres subscapuiaris niuscle, and ends in the teres major. major. Another branch of the plexus, the posterior thoracic nerve or nerve Nerve to to the serratus, lies on the inner side of the axilla (fig. 84, "*). It ^erratus. arises above the clavicle from the fifth, sixth and seventh cervical nerves (p, 73; fig. 85, pt), and descends behind the axillary vessels to reach the outer surface of the serratus magnus muscle. The LATISSIMUS DORSI MUSCLE (g) may be examined as far as it Latissimus enters into the posterior wall of the axilla. Arising from the back • t)f the trunk (p. 391), and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the muscle ascends to be inserted into the bottom of the bicipital insertion, groove, by a tendon one inch and a half in width, in front of the teres major ; at the lower border aponeurotic fibres connect the two, but a bursa intervenes between them near the insertion. Dissection. To lay bare the serratus magnus, the arm is to be J^/^J^^^^^,^.^ drawn from the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the ratus. thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus may be cut through opposite the third rib ; and the fat and connective tissue should be cleaned from the muscular fibres.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 262 Serratus magnus: origin ; insertion; tliree parts to the muscle: relations: Dissection of the inter- costal muscles. Intercostal muscles are two layers. The SERRATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE (fig. 86) extends from the side of the chest to the base of the scapula. It arises from the upper eight or nine ribs by as many slips or digitations, and passes back- wards, diminishing in breadth, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapnla on the ventral aspect. From a difference in the arrangement of the slips, the muscle is divided into three parts :— The u])per j^ctrt is ibrmed by the first digitation, which is thicker than the others, and springs from the first and second ribs, as well as from a tendinous arch Fig. 86.* between them : it is in- serted into an impression in front of the upper angle of the scapula. The middle port is thin, and comprises two digitations, which spread out from the second and third ribs to the verte- bral border of the scapula. The lower part is the strongest, and consists of the remaining five or six slips, which converge from their ribs (fourth to eighth or ninth) to a special sur- face on the ventral aspect of the lower a^ngle of the scapula. The serratus is in great I)art concealed by the pec- toral muscles, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the scapula with the subscapularis and latissimus dorsi muscles. Its deep surface rests against the ribs and the intercostal muscles. The lower slips interdigitate with like processes of the external oblique muscle. Action: The whole muscle acting, the scapula is carried forwards. But the lower part can move forwards the lower angle alone, so as to rotate the bone, and turn the glenoid cavity upwards. The lowest sli]DS may evert the ribs in forced inspiration. Dissection. The intercostal muscles will be brought into view by detaching the j)rocesses of the serratus from the ribs for a couple of inches, and by taking away the loose tissue on the surface. At the front of the chest a thin aponeurosis is continued forwards from each external intercostal to the sternum; this is to be left in the third space. Some of the lateral cutaneous nerves should be preserved. The INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES form two layers in each space, but neither occupies the whole length of the interval. The direction of the fibres is different in the two, those of the external muscle run- * View of the serratus magnus muscle, a.263 INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. iiing very obliquely downwards and forwards, while those of the internal j^ass, although less obliquely, downwards and backwards. The external muscle consists of fleshy and tendinous fibres, and is Outer layer attached to the margins of the ribs bounding the intercostal space, in front. It extends from the tubercle of the upper rib behind to the end of the bone in front, except in the last two spaces, where the muscle is continued forwards l)etween the cartilages. A thin membrane {anterior intercostal a2)oneurosis) takes the place of the muscle between the rib-cartilages. Dissection. The internal intercostal muscle will be seen by cutting Dissection through and removing the external layer and the fascia in one of the musSr^ widest spaces, say the second. Far back between the tw(j muscles, and close to tlie rib above, the of nerves intercostal nerve and vessels will be found. A branch of the nerve vessels, to the surface (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be followed through the external muscle ; and the trunk of the nerve is to be traced forwards in one or more spaces to the sternum and the sur- face of the chest. The hinder part of the muscles will be seen in the dissection of the back and thorax. The internal intercostal muscle is attached to the inner surface of inner layer the ribs bounding the space. It begins near the angles of the ribs behind, behind, the upper muscles approaching more closely to the spine than the lower ones, and reaches to the extremity of the intercostal space in front. The fibres of the lowest two muscles are continuous anteriorly with those of the internal oblique of the abdomen. One surface is in contact with tlie external muscle, and the intercostal vessels and nerves ; and the other is lined by the pleura. Action. By the action of the intercostal muscles the ribs are Use of moved in respiration. The external intercostals elevate the ribs and evert the lower edges, ^^^^t^"^, niuscl6s' so as to enlarge the thorax in the antero-j^osterior and transverse directions : they come into play during inspiration. The internal intercostals act in a different Avay at the side and fore ^'^'1^^' muscles, part of the chest. Between the osseous parts of the ribs they depress and turn in jj^^jr^^*^^^^^"^ those bones, diminishing the size of the thorax ; and they are brought into use in expiration. Between the rib-cartilages they raise the ribs, and are muscles intercarti- of inspiration, like the outer layer. iwt!^"*' Dissection. To bring into view the triangularis sterni muscle and Dissection the internal mammary vessels, the cartilages of the true ribs, except J*4mmary the first and seventh, are to be taken away with the intervening vessels, muscles on the right side ; * but the two ribs mentioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dissectors of the abdomen and of the head and neck. Small arteries to each intercostal space and the surface of the thorax, and the intercostal nerves are to be preserved. * On the left side the vessels and the muscles may have been destroyed by the injection of the body.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 264 Triangularis sterni: insertion relations Internal mammary artery courses through thorax to abdomen. Branches superior phrenic, small pos- terior off- Tlie surface of the triangularis sterni will be apparent when the loose tissue and fat are removed. The TRIANGULARIS STERNI (fig. 87) is a thin muscle beneath the costal cartilages. It arises internally from the side of the ensiform process, from the back of the sternum as high as the third costal car- tilage, and usually from the inner ends of the cartilages of the lower two or three true ribs. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper ones also ascending considerably, and are inserted by fleshy slips into the true ribs except the first and last, at the junction of the bone and cartilage : some of the fibres fre- quently end in an aponeurosis in the in- tercostal spaces. In front of the muscle are the rib- cartilages and the in- ternal intercostals, with the internal mammary vessels and intercostal nerves. Be- hind, it lies on the jDleura. Its lower part is continuous with the transversalis muscle The size of this muscle varies greatly, and one or more of the upper slips are frequently wanting. Action. The triangularis sterni assists in depressing the anterior ends of the ribs, and acts with the interosseous internal intercostals in expiration. The INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY is a branch of the subclavian (]). 70), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying behind the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the sternum, as far as the sixth inter- costal space ; here it gives externally a large muscular branch (mus- culo-phrenic), and then passing beneath the seventh cartilage, enters the sheath of the rectus muscle in the wall of the abdomen. In the chest the artery lies on the pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the chain of sternal lymphatic glands. Its thoracic branches are numerous but small :— a. A long, slender branch (comes nervi plirenicij arises as the artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm with the Ijhrenic nerve : this branch is seen in the dissection of the thorax. 6. Small sternal branches supply the triangularis sterni, and ramify over the back of the sternum. From these, mediastinal of the abdomen (fig. 87, b). * View from behind of the triangularis sterni muscle, a.INTERCOSTAL NERVES. 2G5 twigs pass backwards to be distributed to tlie remains of the thymus gland and the pericardium. c. Two anterior intercostal branches run outwards in each space, iutercostid, lying along the borders of the costal cartilages, and terminate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. d. Perforating branches, one or twd opposite each space, pierce perforating, the internal intercostal and large pectoral muscles, and are distributed on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves : the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the musculo- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the diaphragm : i^^"^^^^" it supplies anterior branches to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination will appear in the dissection of the abdomen. Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk, which Veins, opens into the innominate vein. The INTERCOSTAL NERVES, seen now in the anterior half of their intercostal extent, are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, and "^^^^^ • supply the wall of the thorax. Placed at first between the layers of course, the intercostal muscles, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax about midway between the spine and the sternum. Much diminished in size by the emission of this offset, the trunk is termina- continued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal ^^'^ intercostal muscle, as far as the side of the sternum, where it ends as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Branches supply the branches, intercostal muscles, and the triangularis sterni. The AORTIC INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES lie with the nerves between intercostal the strata of intercostal muscles, and close to the upper rib bounding ^^f^^gfte • the space. Near the angle of the rib the artery gives off a branch which is continued forwards along the edge of the lower rib ; and both anastomose in front with the intercostal offsets of the internal mammaiy artery. A small cutaneous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous offsets, nerve of the thorax ; and other branches are furnished to the thoracic wall. Directions. The dissector of the upper limb now waits the ap- At this pointed time for the examination of the thorax. But as soon as ^^ofax and the body is turned he is to take his share in the dissection of the ^ack are back, and to proceed with the paragraphs marked for him in Chapter V. After the back is finished, the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through the soft parts connected with the scapula.dissectiotn of the upper limb. 266 SeCTIOJn' 11. SCAPULAR MUSCLES, VESSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS. Position. Dissection of mnscles. Positicn. After tlie limb has been separated from the trunk it is to be placed with the subscapularis uppermost. Dissection. The different muscles that have been, traced to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the chest and of the back are now to be followed to their insertion into the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the purpose of showinjx the attachment. Muscles attached to upper margin of the scapuls to axillary margin, and to base the base of the scapula, run the posterior scapular artery and vein, the ramifications of Fig. 88.* which are to be traced. To the borders and the angles of the scapula the following muscles are connected :— From the ui^per margin of the scapula arises one muscle, the omo-hyoid (fig. 88, e). About half an inch wide at its origin, the muscle is attached to the edge of the bone behiiid the notch, and sometimes to the liga- ment which bridges over the notch. Along the axillary margin arise the long head of the triceps (fig. 94, a), and the teres minor (h) and major (g) muscles ; these attachments will be ascertained in the progress of the dissection. The vertebral border of the bone has four muscles inserted into it. Between the superior angle and the spine is the levator anguli scapulae (fig. 89, h) ; opposite the spine the rhomboideus minor (j) is attached ; and between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major (k) is inserted : the upper fibres of the last * View of the subscapularis and the surrounding muscles. A. Subscapu- laris. B. Teres major, c. Latissimus dorsi. d. Serratus magnus. E. Omo- hyoid. F. Pectoralis minor, o. Biceps. H. Coraco-brachialis. a. Suprascapular artery. 1. Suprascapular nerve, separated from the artery by the suprascapular ligament.267 SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE. muscle often end in an aponeurotic arch, which is fixed to the bone above and below. In front of these muscles, and inserted into the base of the scapula along its whole length, is the serratus magnus muscle (fig. 88, d), the ujDper and lower parts of which are much thickened, and occupy special surfaces on the ventral aspect of the corresponding angles of the bone. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the anterior half to coracoid of the coracoid process at its upper and inner part is also seen (fig. 88, f). Dissection. By the separation of the serratus from the sub- Dissection, scapularis there comes into view a thin fascia, which belongs to the and fascia, latter muscle, and is fixed to the bone round its margins ; after it has been observed, it may be taken away. The subscapularis muscle is to be followed forwards to its in-ofsub- sertion into the humerus ; and the axillary vessels and nerves, with •'^capuians. their ofi'sets to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE (fig. 88, a) lies beneath the scapula, Snbscapu- and is for the most part concealed Ijy that bone when the liral) is in its natural position. It arises from the concave ventral surfiace origin, of the scapula, except near the upper and lower angles, and over tlie neck ; and a thick portion of the muscle is attached in the groove along the axilhiry margin of the bone : many of the fleshy fibres spring from tendinous septa which are fixed to the ridges on the surface of the scapula. The muscle is inserted by a tendon into the and inser- impression on the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy ' fibres into the bone for nearly an inch below this mark. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in contact relations; with the axillary vessels and nerves, and the sei'ratus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder-joint ; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which generally couimunicates with the synovial cavity of that joint. The lower border projects beyond the scapula, and is con- tiguous to the teres major, the latissimus dorsi, and the long head of the triceps ; along this border the subscapular artery runs, the dorsal branch of which, as well as the posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve, turn backwards below it. Action. It rotates in the hanging limb ; and when the humerus use. is raised it depresses that bone. Dissection. The subscapularis is to be separated from the scapula, Dissection but a thin layer of fibres, in which the vessels lie, is to be left on ^^^^ the bone. As the muscle is raised, its tendinous processes of origin, the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the shoulder- joint, and the bursa are to be observed. A small arterial anasto- mosis on the ventral surface of the bone is to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres. The INFRASCAPULAR ARTERY is an oftset of the dorsal branch of the subscapular vessel (p. 259), and ramifies on the ventral surface artery, of the scapula. Passing beneath the subscapular muscle, it forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Position. The examination of the muscles on the opposite sur- face of the scapula may be next undertaken. For this purpose the limb is to be turned over ; and a block, which is deep enough to make the shoulder prominent, is to be placed between the scapula and the arm. Dissection. The skin is to be removed from the prominence of the shoulder, down to the middle of the outer side of the arm. After its removal some small cutaneous nerves are to be found in the fat: -—the upper of these descend over the acromion ; and a larger branch comes to the surface about half-way down the posterior border of tlie deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. Branches of nerves, stqwaacromial, descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical plexus (p. 58). A cutaneous branch of the circumflex nerve (tig. 89,^^ turns forwards with a small companion artery from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integuments covering the lower two-thirds of the muscle. Dissection. The fat and fascia are now to l)e taken from the fleshy deltoid, its fibres being made tense for the purpose. Beginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards, following the direction of the coarse muscular fasciculi. As the posterior edge is approached, the cutaneous nerve and vessels escaping from beneath it are to be dissected out. At the same time the fascia may be removed from the back of the scapula, so as to denude the muscles there. The DELTOID MUSCLE (fig. 89, f) is triangular in form, with the base at the scapula and clavicle, and the apex at the humerus. It arises from the lower border of the spine of the scapula, from the outer edge of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the front of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the rough triangular impression on the outer surface of the humerus, above the middle. The anterior border is contiguous to the pectoralis major muscle and the cephalic vein ; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus, teres, and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle from the bones of the shoulder corresponds with the insertion of the trapezius. At its insertion the tendon of the deltoid is united with that of the pectoralis major ; and a fasciculus of the bracliialis anticus is attached on each side of it. The middle or acromial portion of the deltoid is thicker than the rest, and its fibres form large bundles which run obliquely between tendinous septa prolonged from the origin and insertion of the muscle. The anterior or clavicular and posterior or spinous portions are somewhat separate from the foregoing, and their fibres converge to the anterior and ]30sterior edges respectively of the lower tendon. Action. The acromial portion of the muscle raises the arm, abducting it from the body ; the clavicular part flexes the shoulder- joint, moving the arm forwards and inwards ; and the spinous part draws the arm backwards, or extends the shoulder-joint.269 CIEC [IMPLEX VESSELS AND NERVE. Dissection (fig. 89). The deltoid is to be divided near its origin, Dissection and is to be thrown down as far as the circumflex vessels and nerve d.eitoid^^^ beneath will permit. As the mnscle is raised a large thick bursa Subacrwniai between it and the upper end of the humerus comes into sight, ^ursca. The loose tissue and fat are to be taken away from the circumflex vessels and nerve ; and the size of the bursa having been looked to, the remains are to be removed. The insertion of the muscle should be defined. Parts covered by deltoid. The deltoid conceals the upper end of the Part humerus, and those parts of the dorsal scapular muscles which are thldeUoid fixed to the great tuberosity. A large bursa, sometimes divided into sacs, intervenes between the great tuberosity of the humerus and the under surface of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Lower down are the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the biceps muscle. In front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. Dissection. By following back the posterior circumflex vessels Dissection and nerve through a space between the humerus and the long head circumflex of the triceps (g), their connection with the axillary trunks will be vessels, arrived at. In clearing the fat from the space a brancli of the nerve to the teres minor muscle is to be sought close to the border of the scapula, where it is surrounded by dense fibrous tissue. Arching outwards in front of the humerus is the small anterior cir- and anterior, cumflex artery ; this is to be cleaned. The CIRCUMFLEX ARTERIES arise near the termination of the Two circum- axillary trunk (p. 259) ; they are two in number, and are named ^^^^'"^^^^^^^^ • anterior and posterior from their position to the humerus. The anterior branch is a small artery, which courses beneath the anterior; coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and ascends in the bicipital groove to the articulation and the head of the humerus : it anasto- moses with small ofisets of the posterior circumflex. The 'posterior circumflex artery (fig. 89, a), much larger than the posterior, anterior, winds backwards through a space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps, and is distributed chiefly to the deltoid muscle, in which it anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic artery. Branches are given from it to the shoulder-joint, and to anastomose its otfsets. with the anterior circumflex and superior profunda arteries. It supplies off'sets also to the teres minor, the long head of the triceps, and the integuments. The CIRCUMFLEX NERVE (fig. 89,^) leaves the armpit with the pos- ^g^^ ^g^'^g™' terior circumflex artery (p. 261), and bends round the humerus, beneath the deltoid muscle, in which it ends. Many large branches J^^^^j^^J^^^f enter the deltoid ; and one or two filaments pierce the muscle and become cutaneous. Branches. As the nerve passes backwards it gives an articular branches, n 1 ^ 11 •• articular filament to the under part of the shoulder-jomt. Behmd the humerus it furnishes a branch to the teres minor (^), which has a to teres, reddish gangliform swelliiig on it, and the cutaneous nerve (") before cutaneous, noticed, which turns round the edge of the deltoid.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 270 infraspina- The INFRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig, 89, b) occiipies the infraspinoiis froni"^^^ fossa of the scapula, and extends to the upper end of the humerus, fossa of that The niuscle arises from the lower surface of the spine of the scapula, name; from the dorsal surface of the bone helow that process, except at the neck and the narrow area along the axillary border where the teres muscles are attached, and from a special fascia covering it. Its insertion; fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins the Fig. 89.* tendons of the supraspinatus and teres minor. The fleshy fibres arising from the spine overlie the tendon of the muscle. relations; A part of the muscle is subcutaneous ; but the upper portion is concealed by the deltoid, and the lower angle by the latissimus dorsi. The lower border is in contact with the teres minor, with which it is often united. The muscle lies on the scapula and the scapulo-humeral articulation ; and there is sometimes a small bursa between it and the capsule of the joint. and use. Action. With the humerus hanging it acts as a rotator outwards ; and when the bone is raised it will move the arm backwards in concert with the hinder part of the deltoid. * View of the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula, and of the circumflex vessels and nerve. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles: A. Supra- spinatus. B. Infraspinatus, c. Teres minor. d. Teres major, e. Latis- simus dorsi. P. Deltoid. G. Triceps (long head). H. Levator anguK scapulae. J. Rhomboideus minor, k. Rhomboideus major. Arteries: a. Posterior circumflex. b. Branch to teres minor. c. Dorsal scapular. Nerves: 1. Circumflex trunk. 2. Its cutaneous offset. 3. Branch to teres minor.TERES MUSCLES. 271 The TERES MINOR (fig. 89, c) is a narrow fleshy slip, which is ^^^^3 often united inseparably with the preceding muscle. It arises on the minor: dorsum of the scapula from a special imj)ression along the upper ori"-in • two-thirds of the axillary border of the bone, and from an inter- muscular septum on each side ; and it is inserted by a tendon into insertion • the lowest of the three marks on the great tuberosity of the humerus, as well as by fleshy fibres into the bone below that spot—about an inch altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid : it rests on the long parts head of the triceps and the shoulder-joint. Underneath it the dorsal ^^^o^nd it; branch of the subscapular artery turns. Action. The limb hanging, the muscle rotates it out and moves it and use back ; the arm being raised, the teres depresses the humerus. The TERES MAJOR MUSCLE (fig. 89, D) passeS from the inferior Teres major: angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its origin is from an oval origin; surface behind the inferior angle of the scapula, from the lower half of the axillary border of the bone, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the teres minor. The fibres end in a tendon which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, insertion; The muscle assists in forming the posterior fold of the axilla, and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the humerus relations; (fig. 83). The upper border is contiguous to the subscapularis muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the latissimus dorsi, which covers the teres behind at its origin, and in front at its insertion. At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is about two inches wide, and is placed behind that of the latissimus : the two are separated above by a bursa ; but they are united below, and an expansion is sent from them to tlie fascia of the arm. A second bursa is frequently present between the teres and the bone. Action. If the limb hangs, it is carried back behind the trunk, use on and is rotated inwards by the muscle. The humerus being raised, ^^^"smg the muscle depresses and adducts it. With the limb fixed by the hand the teres will cause the lower and fixed angle of the scapula to move forwards. Below the scapula, where the teres muscles separate from one ^P^^^^^^Jjl" another, is a triangular interval, which is bounded in front by the teres; shaft of the humerus, and above and below by the teres minor and major (fig. 89). The space is divided into two by the long head of the triceps. Through the anterior part, which is of a quadri- anterior and lateral shape, the posterior circumflex vessels (a) and the circumflex posterior, nerve (^) pass ; and opposite the posterior triangular space, the dorsal branch (c) of the subscapular artery bends backwards. Dissection (fig. 90). Before sawing through the acromion process Dissection to expose the sujjraspinatus muscle, the ligaments of the scapula and clavicle should be examined. A strong ligament (coraco-clavicular) ascends from the coracoid ['fg"]!^*^ process to the under part of the clavicle : on removing the areolar vide, tissue it will be seen to consist of two parts, anterior and posterior, differing in size, and iu the direction of the fibres.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 272 A capsular ligament, connecting tlie outer end of the clavicle witli the acromion, will be shown by taking away the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid muscles, and of Another strong band (coraco-acromial) passing transversely be- scapuia. tween the acromion and the coracoid process, and a small fasciculus (suprascapular ligament), placed over the notch in the superior border, are then to be defined. Union of the LIGAMENTS OF THE CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA (fig. 90). The OUter scapula ^^^^ clavicle forms a synovial joint with the acromion, and is Fig. 90.* united to the coracoid process by a strong coraco-clavicular liga- ment. Coraco-cla- The CORACO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENT cousists of two portions, each having a different direction and designation, a conical The posterior piece Q), called conoid from its shape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid j)rocess ; and by its base to the tubercle of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone, and a square The anterior part (^), trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid ; it is attached below to the inner border of the coracoid process along the hinder half; and above to the line on the under surface of the clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition behind, but are separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the ligament suppoi-t the scapula in a state of rest. They serve also to restrain the rotatory movements of that bone ; thus, when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band ; and when upw^ards, by the conoid piece. piece. Use of liga- ment. * Ligaments of the clavicle and scapula, and of the sLoulder-joint (altered from Bourgery). 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Coraco- acromial ligament. 4. Suprascapular ligament. 5. Capsule of shoulder- joint. 6. Tendon of long head of biceps, entering the joint. 7. Tendon of subscapularis muscle. 8, Coraco-humeral ligament.273 LIGAMENTS OF SCAPULA. AcROMio-CLAVicuLAR ARTICULATION. The articular surfaces of joint witli ^ the clavicle and acromion process of the scapula are connected acromion: ' together by a capsule, which is thick above (superior ligament), but capsule, very thin below. An interarticular fihro-cartilage is sometimes present at the upper flbro-carti- 2)art of the joint; and occasionally it forms a complete septum. If the fibro-cartilage is j^erfect, there are two synovial cavities in the and synovial joint ; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial sac. Movements. This articulation allows the scapula to chauge its Use of position in relation to the clavicle when the former bone is moved, either in gliding over the surface of the thorax, or in being rotated with the elevation and depression of the arm. Scapular Ligaments. The sjjecial ligaments of the scapula are Ligaments two in number, and extend from one point of the bone to another. scapula. The suprascapular ligament is a narrow band stretching Posterior, across the notch in the upper border of the scapula. By one end it ^^^'^ is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the border behind the notch. It converts the notcli into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes. The CORACO-acromial ligament (^) is triangular in form, and anterior— extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its ajDex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The ligament consists usually of two formed of thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thinner intervening pieces: part. It forms part of an arch above the shoulder-joint, which pre- vents the head of the humerus being displaced upwards. Dissection. To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion Dissection, process is to be sawn through, and to be turned aside with the outer end of the clavicle ; but in a repetition of the dissection of the upper limb, the bone may be left uncut for the j)urpose of seeing the use of the coraco-acromial arch. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle ; this is to be taken away after it has ' been observed. The supraspinatus muscle (fig. 89, a) has the same form as the Supraspina- hoUow of the bone which it fills. It arises from the surface of the * supraspinous fossa of the scapula, except over the neck, from the origin; upper side of the spine of the bone, and from the fascia covering its surfiice. Its filjres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the upper imjiression on the great insertion; tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the acromion relations; process; and it rests upon the scapula, the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and the shoulder-joint. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the humerus. Action. It comes into use with the acromial portion of the deltoid use. in raising the limb and supporting the joint. Dissection (fi^r. 94). The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of Dissection ^ ° ^ ^ of supra-274 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. scapular vessels. Supra- scapular artery- ends in infraspina- tus, and gives sub- scapular and supraspi- nous offsets. Vein. Suprascapu- lar nerve: branches, muscular and articu- lar. Posterior scapular artery. Dorsal sca- pular artery. tlie scapula can be traced by detaching from behind forwards the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, so as to leave a thin layer of the fleshy fibres with the ramifying blood-vessels on the surface of the bone. In the supraspinous fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinous fossa : and entering the infraspinous fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between these vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY (ct) is derived from the thyroid axis of the subclavian trunk (p. 70). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the suprascapular ligament, and passing beneath the supraspinatus muscle, ends in the infraspinous fossa, where it gives off'sets to the infraspinatus muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery and the posterior scapular of the subclavian. Before entering the supraspinous fossa, it gives a small branch to the ventral surface of the scapula; and beneath the supraspinatus it furnishes offsets to that muscle, the bone, and the shoulder-joint. The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external jugular vein. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE (^) is a branch of the brachial plexus (p. 74). When it reaches the upper border of the scapula, it enters the supraspinous fossa beneath the suprascapular ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus ; and it is con- tinued beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder-joint, and other offsets to the scapula. The POSTERIOR SCAPULAR ARTERY runs along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles, furnishing off'sets to them and to the surfaces of the bone. It is more fully noticed with the dissection of the back (p. 394). The DORSAL SCAPULAR ARTERY {!)) is a branch of the subscapular (p. 259), and after giving off its infrascapular offset, turns round the axillary border of the bone opposite the posterior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinous fossa beneath the teres minor, it suj^plies that muscle and the infraspi- natus, and anastomoses with the suprascaj)ular and posterior scapular arteries. It sends a considerable branch downwards between the teres muscles, towards the lower angle of the bone.275 SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES OF ARM. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position. For the dissection of the superficial vessels and nerves Position, on the front of the arm the limb should lie flat on the table, with the anterior surface uppermost. Dissection. The skin is to be raised from the fore and hinder sur- and inci- faces of the arm and elbow. To reflect it, make one incision along ^^^^ the centre of the limb as far as two inches below the bend of the elbow, and at the termination of this, a second cut half round the forearm. Then strip the skin from the limb as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a bursa may be seen. The cutaneous veins (fig. 91) may be first sought in the : they are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, as they issue from beneath the integument. One in the centre of tlie forearm is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow. Exter- nal to this is the radial vein ; and internal to it are the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the forearm. At the ell)ow these veins are united into two ; one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner side, and the other (cephalic) along the outer side of the arm. The cutaneous nerves are next to be traced out. Where they '^^'^^^ perforate the deep fascia they lie beneath the fat ; and this layer nerves must be scraped through to find them. ; On the outer side of the arm, about the middle, two external gf^^g^*^^" cutaneous branches of the musculo-s2)iral are to be sought. In the outer l^icipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, the cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be recognised. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more mi- 1 1 • -IT- Side of the numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- limb, neous nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about the. middle of the arm ; and a little external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Scrape through the fat behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower third of the arm, for the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the upper third, follow the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. Superficial fascia. The subcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- Siiperficial tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. At that spot it encloses the superficial vessels and lymphatics. Cutaneous Veins. The position and relations of the veins in Superficial .) veins.DISSECTION OF THE AEM. 276 Median vein divides into two Ibranclies. Position aiK relations of the median- cephalic, and of the median-ba silic vein. Venesection is practised in this branch. Basilic veil on inner side of till- Cephalic voin on outer side. Fig. 91.^^ front of tlie elbow are to be attentively noted by the dissector, because the operation of venesection is practised in one of them. The MEDIAN. VEIN of the forearm (lig. 91, ^) divides into two branches, internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow ; and at its point of division it is joined by an offset from a deep vein. The internal branch {inedian-basilic) crosses to the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins (^) to form the basilic vein of the inner side of the arm. The external branch (median- ceplialic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction with the radial vein (') gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. The MEDIAN-CEPHALIC VEIN is directed obliquely, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and the outer mass of muscles of the forearm ; beneath it is the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. This vein is altogether removed from the brachial artery, and is usually smaller than the median-basilic vein. If opened with a lancet it does not generally yield much blood, in consecjuence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering compression of it very uncertain and difficult. The MEDIAN-BASILIC VEIN (^) is niore transverse in direction, and larger than the preceding ; and it crosses the brachial artery. It is firmly supported by the underlying fascia,—the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by an offset from the biceps tendon, intervening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerve lie beneath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median-basilic is the vein on which the operation of blood-letting is commonly performed. It is selected in consequence of its usually larger size, and more super- ficial position, and of the ease with which it may be compressed ; but from its close proximity to the brachial vessels^ the spot to be opened should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The BASILIC VEIN (^), commencing as before said, ascends near the inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, where it passes beneath the deep fascia, and is continued into the axillary vein. In this course it lies to the inner side of the brachial arter}^ The CEPHALIC VEIN (*) is derived chiefiy from the external * Cutaneous veins and nerves at the bend of the eroow. (Quain's "Arte- ries. ") 1. Median-basilic vein. 2. Median vein of the forearm bifurcating. 3 . Anterior ulnar veins. 4, Cephalic vein, formed by the radial from behind and tlie median-cephalic in front : the musculo-cutaneous nerve is beneath it, 5. Basihc vein, with the large internal cutaneous nerve by its side. 6. Brachial artery, with its companion veins (one cut). 7. Radial vein.CUTANEOUS NERVES OF ARM. 271 branch of tlie median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very small : it is continued to the shoulder along the outer side of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles to open into the axillary vein near the clavicle. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most part along Superficial the basilic vein, and enter the glands of the axilla. A few lym- ^^"^i'^^^*^^-^ phatics accompany tlie cephalic vein, and end in the ujjper axillary glands. One or more superficial lympliatic glands are commonly found a and glands, little above the inner condyle of the humerus. Cutaneous Nerves. The superficial nerves of the arm appear on superficial the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to cover the surface of the limb. With one exception (intercosto-humeral) all are derived from the brachial plexus, either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other nerves. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo-sj^iral and musculo-cutaneous nerves. On the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves from the plexus, a third internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral, and the intercosto-humeral nerve. The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCHES OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL External NERVE are two in number, and appear at the outer side of the ^erver'^^^ limb about the middle. The upper small one turns forwards ^^^^ fi.„„^ with the cephalic vein, and reaches the front of the elbow, ^^^l^^^Y^' supplying the anterior part of the arm. The lower and larger pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, and after suj^plying .some cutaneous filaments to the back of the arm, is continued to the forearm. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE pierces the fascia in front of JJJ^J^^"^^^.^" the elbow ; it lies beneath the median-cephalic vein, and divides neous. into branches for the forearm. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE perforates the fascia in two internal pieces, or as one trunk that divides almost directly into two. Its ^^erveT:"'' anterior branch passes beneath the median-basilic vein to the front of the forearm ; and the posterior winds over the iiiner condyle of large, the humerus to the l,)ack of the forearm. A slender offset of the nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far, as the elbow : it supplies the integuments over the l)iceps muscle. The NERVE OF AVrisberg (small internal cutaneous) appears aud small: behind the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives offsets to the lower third of the arm on the inner and posterior surfaces, and joins above the elbow the posterior liranch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL t^ie^fijfJ''i NERVE, becoming subcutaneous in the upper third, winds to the spiral; back of the arm, and reaches nearly as far as the olecranon. The INTERCOSTO-HUMERAL NERVE, a branch of the second inter-and inter- costal 249), perforates the fascia near the axilla, and ramifies on fiunierai.278 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Aponeurosis of the arm receives ac- cessions from tendons; disposition above, and below: forms inter- muscular septa. Directions to be ob- served. Position of limb. Dissection of muscles, of vessels, and of hollow of elbow. Position of the muscles of the arm. Biceps flexor brachii; origin from the scapula' the inner side and posterior surface of tlie arm in the upper half. The size and distribution of this nerve depend upon the develop- ment of the small internal cutaneous and the offset of the musculo- spiral. The DEEP FASCIA of the arm is a white shining membrane, which surrounds the limb, and sends processes between the muscles. Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons :—thus^ in front of the elbow an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins it; and near the axilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major send prolongations to it. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula, clavicle, and chest. Below, it is continued to the forearm, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the elbow-joint, especially to the supracondylar ridges of the humerus, so as to give rise to the intermuscular septa of the arm. Directions. As the back of the arm will not be dissected now, the skin may be replaced on it until the front has been examined. And to keep in place the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb, these should be tied together with string in their natural position to one another, and fastened to the coracoid process. Position. The limb is still to lie on the back, but the shoulder is to be raised by means of a small block ; and the scapula is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. Dissectio7i. The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the front of the arm by an incision along the centre, like that through the skin; and it is to be removed on the outer side as far as the outer supra- condylar ridge of the humerus, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle ; and to prevent the disj^lacement of the brachial artery and its companion nerves, fasten them here and there with stitches. In front of the elbow is a hollow containing the brachial vessels ; and into this the artery should be followed, to show its ending in the radial and ulnar trunks. Muscles on the Fkont of the Arm. There are only three muscles on the front of the arm. The one along the centre of the limb is the biceps ; and that along its inner side, reaching about half way down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachial is anticus lies beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the inner and outer condyles of the humerus, and to the ridge above the outer condyle. The BICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 92, ^; 93, b) forms the prominence seen on the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either end ; and the upper end consists of two tendinous pieces of dif- ferent lengths, which are attached to the scapula. The short head is the innermost, and arises from the tip of the coracoid process279 BICEPS MUSCLE. ill common with tlie coraco-bracliialis muscle (fig. 88) ; and the long head is attached to the upper part of the head of the scapula, within the capsule of the shoulder-joint (fig. 104). Muscular fibres spring from each tendinous head, and meet to form a fleshy belly, which is somewhat flattened from before back. Inferiorly the biceps ends in a tendon, which is inserted into the tuberosity of the insertion radius, having previously given off a slip to the fascia in front of ^"^^^ radius; the elbow. The muscle is superficial except at the extremities. At the upper parts cover- part it is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; ^"^^ and at the lower end the tendon dips into the hollow in front of the elbow. Beneath the biceps are the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and beneath the upper part of the humerus, and the brachialis anticus muscle. ! Its inner border is the guide to the brachial artery below the middle inner border of the humerus, but above that spot the coraco-brachialis muscle If s^^'i® *o intervenes between them. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shoulder-joint, and the insertion of the muscle into the radius will be afterwards learnt. Action. It bends the elbow-joint, and acts powerfully in supinating use on the radius. When the body is hanging by the hands it will apply ^^^^^^S' the scapula firmly to the h umerus, and will assist in raising the trunk, ^^^nk^^ With the arm hanging and the radius fixed, the long head will on humerus, assist the abductors in removing the limb from the side ; and after the limb is abducted, the short head will aid in restoring it to the pendent position. The CORACO-BRACHIALIS (fig. 88, h) is partly concealed by the coraco- biceps, and extends to the middle of the arm. Its origin is fleshy ^i"achiaiis: from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous short origin; head of the biceps. Its fibres becom.e tendinous below, and are inserted into a narrow mark on the inner side of the humerus, below insertion; the level of the deltoid : some of the fibres frequently end on an aponeurotic arch, which extends from the upper end of the humerus to the insertion of the muscle. The upper half of this muscle is beneath the pectoralis major relations to (fig. 93) ; and its inner part projects beyond the short head of the parts^" biceps, forming a prominence in the axilla. Its insertion is covered by the brachial vessels and the median nerve. The coraco-brachialis lies over the subscapular muscle, the anterior circumflex vessels, and the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. Along the inner border are the large artery and nerves of the limb ; and the musculo- cutaneous nerve perforates it. Action. The coraco-brachialis moves forwards the arm, and adducts use on limb, it to the thorax. The BRACHIAL ARTERY (fig. 92,^) is a continuation of the axillary Brachial trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begins at the tends to lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminates rather below^^^ow: the bend of the elbow, or opposite the neck of the radius, in two branches—radial and ulnar, for the forearm. The vessel is internal to the humerus in the upper part of its P^^jj^^^^J^^jj^ course, but in front of the bone below the middle of the arm ; and the limb;DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 280 Veins. Vense comites with veins, and muscles its situation is indicated by the surface-depression along the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles, relations Throughout the arm the brachial artery is superficial, being VI a c £e Q-j^jy ^Y^Q integuments and the deep fascia ; but at the bend of the elbow it becomes deeper, and is crossed by the pro- longation from the tendon of the biceps. Posteriorly, the artery has the following mus- cular connections (fig. 93) :—While it is in- side the humerus it is placed over the long head of the triceps (f) for two inches, but separated partly by the musculo -spiral nerve and profunda vessels ; and over the inner head (g) of the same muscle for about an inch and a half. But when the vessel passes to the front of the Ijone it lies on the insertion of the coraco- brachialis (c) and on the brachialis anticus (h). To the outer side are the coraco-brachia- lis and biceps muscles (c and b), the latter overlapping it. lie along the sides of the artery (fig. 93, d), encircling it with cross branches, and the me- dian-basilic vein crosses over it at the elbow. The basilic vein is near the artery, on the inner side, above ; but it is superficial to the fascia in the lower half of the arm. * Axillary and brachial arteries. (Quain's "Arteries.") 1. Axillary artery and branches : the small brancli above the figure is the superior thoracic, and the larger branch close below, the acromio-thoracic. 2. Long thoracic. 3. Subscapular. 4. Brachial artery. 5. Superior profunda branch. 6. Inferior profunda. 7. Anastomotic. 8. Biceps muscle. 9, Triceps muscle. The median and ulnar nerves are shown in the arm ; the median is close to the brachial artery.BRACHIAL AETERY. 281 The nerves in relation with tlie artery are the following :—The and with internal cutaneous (fig. 93, ^) is in contact with the vessel until it perforates the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve {^) lies to tlie inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco- Ibrachialis muscle ; and the musculo-spiral (fig. 83, is behind for <i distance of two inches. The median nerve (fig. 93, ^) is close to the vessel throughout, but alters its position in this way :-—as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis it is placed on the outer side, but it then crof^ses obliquely over, or occasionally imder the artery, <ind l)ecomes internal about tAvo inches above the elbow-joint. Peculiaritji in position. Tlie brachial trunk occasionally leaves the inner Ucviatiou border of the bice^js in the lower half of the arm, and courses along the inter- hi position; muscular septum, with or without the median nerve, to near the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinary position in front of the elbow, beneath the upper fibres of the pronator teres, which has then a wide origin. In this unusual course the artery lies behind a projection (supracondylar process) of the humerus. Muscular coiKvinf/. In some bodies the brachial artery is covered by an in nuiscnlar additional slii> of origin of the biceps, or of the bracliialis anticvis muscle, covering. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk continuing to the forearm. JligJi division. Instead of a single trunk, there may be two vessels in the Artery lower part, or even the whole length of the arm, owing to an unusually high t^o'^ble. origin of one of the arteries of the forearm, more frequently the radial. Vasa aberrantia. Occasionally a long slender vessel passes from the Al)errant brachial or the axillary trunk to the radial, rarely to the ulnar artery. vessels. Branches s}»ring both externally and internally from tlie brachial itsbranchet muscular, artery (fig. 92). Those on the outer side, muscular, supply the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis aiiticus, as well as the lower part of the deltoid ; those on tlie inner side are the superior and inferior profunda, tlie medullary artery of the humerus, and the anastomotic branch. The superior profunda hvanrh (•') is larger than the others, and p^^J^f^f^ leaves the artery near tlie loAver b(n-der of the teres major ; it winds backwards witli the musculo-s])iral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm (p. 286). The inferior pnfanda Jiranch C*) arises opposite the coraco- brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the (decranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. There it anastomoses with the ])Osterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motic branches, and supplies the triceps. It often arises in common w ith the superior profunda artery. Tlie iiiedullarij artery of the Itumerm begins near the preceding artery to branch, and enters the apc^rtiire about the middle of the humerus, bemg directed downwards. The anastoinotie branch arises one or two inches above the, anas- elbow, and courses inwards through the intermuscular septum to the hollow between tlie olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the artery anastomoses ^\dth the inferior profunda and posterior nlnar recurrent branches, and gives twigs to theDISSECTION OF THE AEM. 282 triceps muscle : one of the offsets forms an arcli across the back of the hnmerns with a branch of the superior profunda. In front of the elbow-joint the anastomotic branch sends an offset to the pronator teres muscle ; this joins the anterior ulnar recurrent branch. Veins end ill The BRACHIAL VEINS (fig. 93, (7) accompau}'the artery, Dne on the axillary. ^^^^ ^.^^^ ^^^^-^ ^^.^^^^ branches of communication across that vessel; thev receive tributary veins corresponding to the branches of the artery. Above, they usually join into one, which enters the axillary vein near the subscapular muscle. Fig. 93.* Nerves on front of arm. Median nerve with tlie artery, has not any branch. Nerves of the arm (fig. 93). The nerves on the front of the arm are derived from the terminal cords of the bracliial plexus. They furnish but few offsets above the elbow, being for the most part continued to the forearm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been already referred to (j). 277). The MEDIAN NERVE (^) arises from the brachial plexus by two heads, one from the outer, and the other from the inner cord (p. 261), and accompanies the brachial artery to the forearm. Beginning on the outer side of the artery, the nerve crosses over, or less frequently under, it below the middle of the arm, and is placed on the inner side a little above the elbow. It does not give any branch in the arm : but there mav be a fasciculus connecting it * Dissection of the inner side of the arm. (Ilhistrations of Dissections.) Muscles: a. Pectoralis major, b. Biceps, c. Coraco-brachiaHs. d. and e. Latissimus and teres. f. Long head, and o, inner head of triceps. H. Brachialis anticus. Vessels: a. Brachial artery, h. Inferior profunda, c. Anastomotic, d. Internal vena comes, joining the basihc vein a Httle above the middle of the arm. Nerves : 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Nerve of "Wrisberg, 4. Ulnar. 5, Muscular to the triceps, and Q. internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral.NEEVES OF THE ARM. 283 with the musculo-ciitaneoiis nerve. Its rehitioiis to muscles are the same as those of the artery. The ULNAR NERVE derived from the imier cord of the brachial Ulnar nerve plexus, lies close to the inner side at first of the axillary, and then of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis : then leaving the blood-vessel, it is directed backwards through the inner intermuscular sejotum to the interval between the olecranon and the internal condyle, being surrounded by the muscular fibres is without of the triceps. There is not any branch from the nerve till it }ar'^s^i^g reaches the elbow-joint. elbow. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS (") is a tegumentary nerve of the fore- internal arm. Arising from the inner cord of the plexus, it is at first ]7e*ve be^^ superficial to the brachial artery as far as the middle of the arm, "eath the where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia and reach the forearm (p. 289). Near the axilla it furnishes a small oftset to the skin of the front of the arm. The NERVE OF Wrisberg (small internal cutaneous ; ^) arises with Nerve of the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillary vein, it is directed beneatiAhe inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and joins with fast^ia. the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the integument (p. 277). The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE, named from supplying muscles muscuIo- and integuments, ends on the surface of the forearm. It leaves the nerveln^Uie outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the arm: pectoralis minor (p. 261), and immediately perforates the coraco- brachialis : it is then directed oblicjuely to the outer side of the limb between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. At the front of the elbow it becomes a cutaneous nerve of the forearm. Branches. The nerve furnishes a branch to the coraco-brachialis its muscular before entering the muscle, and others to the biceps and lirachialis anticus where it is j)laced between them. Dissection. The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought into Dissection, view by cutting through the tendon of the bicej)s near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be defined on each side, so as to show that it Deiine reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only ^ for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is re(![uired in detaching the brachialis externally from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely applied. As the muscles are separated, the musculo-spiral nerve with a small artery comes into sight. The BRACHIALIS ANTICUS (fig. 93, h) covers the elbow-joint and Brachialis the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises Irom the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid origin; muscle ; and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, xiz., froni all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer. The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, wdiich is inserted into the im- insertion; pression on the front of the coronoid ju^ocess of the ulna (p. 300).DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 284 relations of surfaces, of borders; vise, fore- arm free, and fixed. Tliis muscle is for the most part concealed by the biceps. On it lie the brachial vessels, with the median, musculo-cntaneous, and mnsculo-spiral nerves. It covers the humerus and the articLdation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two slips the tendon of the deltoid ; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy points of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border reaches the inter- muscular septum in all its length ; but the outer is separated below from the external intermuscular septum by two muscles of the forearm, supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Action. The bracliialis brings forwards the ulna towards the humerus, and bends the elbow-joint. If the ulna is fixed, as in climbing with the hands above the head, the muscle bends the joint by raising the humerus. BACK OF THE ARM. Position of the part. Lay bare the triceps, and separate pieces. Triceps mnsoie has tliree heads origin of middle head, of outer head. and of inner head; directioii of the fibres; insertion; Position. During the examination of the back of the arm, the limb is to be raised in a semiflexed position by means of a block beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that position. Dissection (fig. 94). On the back of the arm there is one muscle, the triceps, beneath wdiich are placed the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda vessels. The skin having been already reflected, the muscle will be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia. To take away the fascia, carry an incision along the middle of the limb to the point of the elbow ; and in reflecting it, the loose sub- a]3oneurotic tissue should be removed at the same time. Separate the middle from the inner and outer heads of the muscle ; and trace the musculo-spiral nerve and vessels beneath it. Define the outer head, which reaches down to the spot at which the musculo-spiral nerve api^ears on the outer side. The TRICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 94) is divided superiorly into three heads of origin, inner, outer, and middle : two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. The middle or long head (a) has a tendinous origin, about an inch wide, from a rough mark on the axillary margin of the scapula close to the glenoid cavity, where it is united with the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The outer head (b) is narrow and arises from the back of the humerus, extending from the root of the large tuberosity to the spiral groove. The inner head (c), fleshy and wide, arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, reaching laterally to the intermuscular septa, and gradually tapering upwards as far as the insertion of the teres major. From the difterent heads the fibres are directed with vary- ing degrees of inclination to a wide common tendon above the elbow. Inferiorly, the muscle is inserted into the end of the olecranon pro- cess of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon there is sometimes a small bursa.INTEKMUSCITLAR SEPTA. Two inter- muscular septa: . The triceps is superficial, except at the ujjper part where it is relations; overLappecl by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articu- lation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the inter- muscular septa ; and the lowest fibres are continuous externallv with the anconeus—^a muscle of the forearm. Action. All the pieces of the triceps comljining in their action us?, will bring the ulna into a line with the humerus, and extend the Fig. 94. * elbow-joint. As the long head j)asses the shoulder, it can de- press the raised humerus, and adduct the arm. The INTERMUSCULAR SEPTA are fibrous processes continuous with the investing aponeurosis of the arm, which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus : they separate the muscles of the front and back of the limb, and give attachment to the fleshy fibres. The internal is the stronger, and reaches as high as the cora- co-brachialis muscle, from which it receives some tendinous fibres. The brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind : the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anas- tomotic vessels pierce it. The external septum is thinner, H^n. "li an outer. and ceases at the deltoid muscle. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front are the brachialis anticus, and the muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior) arising above the condyle of the humerus : it is pierced by the muscuU)- spiral nerve and the accompanying vessels. Dissection. To follow the superior -orofunda vessels and the mus- Dissection ■*■ OI VGSSGlS culo-spiral nerve, the middle and outer heads of the triceps should and nerve. an inner and * Dissection of the dorsal scapular vessels and nerve, and of the triceps muscle. Muscles: a. Long head of triceps, b. Outer head, v/itli a bit of whalebone beneath it to mark the extent of its attachment down the humerus, c. Inner head. d. Anconeus. e. Supinator longus. p. Extensor carpi radialis longior. G. Teres major, h. Teres minor, i. Infraspinatus, cut across. j. Supraspinatus, cut through. Arteries: a. Suprascapular. h. Dorsal scapular, c. Posterior circumflex. Nerves: 1, Suprascapular. 2. Circumflex.286 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Trace ■branches. Superior profunda artery lies behind the hume- rus, supplies triceps, and joins anasto- moses around elbow; cutaneous offsets. MuRculo- spiral nerve winds to outer side of the arm : branches. Internal cutaneoiis branch. Two exter- nal cuta- neous. Branches to the triceps and an- coneus, be cut across over tliem, and tlie fatty tissue should be removed. The trunks of the artery and nerve are to he afterwards followed below the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus. The veins may be taken away. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery which descend to the elbow and the anconeus muscle, the tricej^s is to be divided along the line of union of the outer with the middle head. The SUPERIOR PROFUNDA branch of the brachial artery (p. 281) turns to the back of the humerus with the musculo-spiral nerve between the inner and outer heads of the triceps ; in this position it supplies branches to the triceps and deltoid muscles, and is con- tinued onwards in the groove in the bone to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal offsets :—One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo-spiral nerve to the front of the elbow, anastomosing with the recurrent radial branch ; while a larger one descends along the intermuscular septum to the elbow, and joins the anastomotic and posterior interosseous recurrent arteries. Branches. Besides the terminal offsets of the vessel, a consider- able branch descends to the elbow in the inner head of the trice]3s, supplying the muscle, and communicating with the inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the l^rachial artery. One slender twig accompaides a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutaneous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, and accompany the superficial nerves. The MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE (fig. 83,'*) is the largest trunk of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 261), and is continued along the back and outer part of the liml) to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds with the superior profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external con- dyle of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves (fig. 103,^ and ^). The nerve gives muscular branches, and cutaneous offsets to the inner and outer sides of the limb. a. The internal cutaneous hmnch of the arm (fig, 93,'') is of small size, and arises in the axillary space in common with the branch to the inner head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 277). h. The external cutaneous tranches, springing at the outer side of the limb, are two in number : they are distributed in the integu- ments of the arm and forearm (pj). 277 and 289). c. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply all three heads. One slender offset for the inner head arises in common with the internal cutaneous branch, and descends close to the ulnar nerve to enter the muscular fibres at the lower third of the arm. Another long and slender branch behind the humerus,SURFACE-MARKING OF FOREARM. 287 appearing as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. d. On the outer side of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve supplies brachialis the brachialis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearm, viz., mSes^o? supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. forearm. Directions. As the dissection of the arm has been completed as Directions, far as the elbow, it will be advisable to keep moist the shoulder- joint until it is examined with the other ligaments. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position. The limb is to be placed with the palm of the hand Position of uppermost ; and tlie marking of the surface and the projections of bone are first to be noted. Surface-marking. On the anterior aspect of the forearm are two ^;^r^f ^^^a-^ lateral depressions, corresponding with the position of the main vessels. The external is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal groove is evident only below the middle of the forearm, and points out the place of the ulnar artery. The bones (radius and ulna) are sufficiently near the surface to Bony pro- be traced in their whole length : each ends below in a point—the j'^^^^^"'^- styloid process ; and that of the radius is the lower. A transverse line separates the forearm from the hand, and the articulation of the Line of the wrist is about tliree-o[uarters of an inch above it. wni,t-joint. On each side of the palm of the hand is a large projection ; the Surface of external of these (thenar) is formed by muscles of the thumb, and '^^"^ the internal (hypotlienar) by muscles of the little finger. At the upper end of the latter the prominent pisiform bone is easily felt ; and towards the outer side of the wrist, below the end of the radius, the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone is to be recognized. Between the muscular eminences is the hollow of the palm, which is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it : they result from the bending of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, but the lower one is nearly half an inch above the three inner joints when the fingers are extended. The position of the superficial palmar arch of arteries is marked Position of by the middle third of a line across the palm from the root of the Pai'^ararch. thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Transverse lines on the palmar aspects of the thumb and fingers Surface f)f correspond to the articulations of the phalanges ; but while the ^"gf i'^- middle and lower ones are nearly opposite (about a line above) the two interphalangeal articulations, the upper one is fully half an inch below the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Dissection. With the limlD lying flat on the table, an incision is to Dissection288 DISSECTION OF THE FOEEARM. to remove be carried through the skin along the middle of the front of the le J, ail. forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist ; and at its termination a transverse one is to cross it. The skin is to be reflected carefully from the front and back of the forearm, without injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves beneath ; and it should be taken also from the back of the hand, by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along each margin to a little beyond the knuckles. The whole of the fore finger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves may be followed to the end. Seek the The superficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in the fat; vesselsTiid they have the following position, and most of them have been partly nerves in dissected :—AlonQj the inner side, witli the ulnar veins, is the con- front tinuation of the internal cutaneous nerve ; and near the wrist there is occasionally a small offset from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side, with the radial vein, is the superficial part of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the centre of the forearm, and inside the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis which can be rendered tense by extending the wrist, the small palmar branch of the median nerve should be sought beneath the fat. On the ulnar artery, close out- side the pisiform bone, a small j)almar branch of the ulnar nerve is to be looked for. behind, At the back of the forearm the large external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is to be traced onwards ; and offsets are to be followed to this surface from the nerves in front. 'ijack*o/tr ^^^^ j)osterior part of the hand is a plexus of superficial veins. hand. Winding back below the ulna is the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; and lying along the outer border of the hand is the radial nerve : these should be traced to the fingers. Subcuta- Cutaneous Veins. The superficial veins are named median^ neons veins: ^..^(jjal, and nlnar, from their position in the limb. i)iexus oil Dorsal plexus op the hand. This network receives the super- the hand; facial veins from both surfaces of the fingers ; and from it, on the outer and inner sides, the radial and posterior ulnar veins proceed. radial: The RADIAL VEIN begins in the outer part of the plexus above mentioned, and in some small radicles at the back of the thumb. It is continued along the forearm, at first behind and then on the outer border as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic vein by its union with the outer branch of the median vein (fig. 91,'). In many bodies a considerable branch passes from the lower part of the radial vein to join the median vein on the front of the forearm. uhiar, The ULNAR VEINS are anterior and jDosterior, and occupy the front and back of the limb :— anterior The anterior begins near the wrist by the junction of small roots from the hand, and runs on the inner part of the forearm to the elbow, where it opens either into the median-basilic or posterior nlnar vein (fig. 91,^). •md poste- "^^^ posterior ulnar vein arises from the inner part of the dorsal rior; plexus of the hand, and is continued along the back of the forearmCUTANEOUS NERVES. 289 nearly to the elbow ; here it bends forward to join the inner branch of the median and form the basilic vein. The MEDIAN VEIN takes origin near the wrist by small branches luedian. which are derived from the palmar surface of the hand. It is directed along the centre of the forearm nearly to the elbow, and there divides into median-basilic and median-cephalic, which unite, as before seen (fig. 91,-), with the radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a large communicating V)rancli from the deep veins beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves. Some of the superficial nerves of the fore- Superficial arm are continued from the arm :—those on the inner side from foreann ^ the large internal cutaneous nerve ; and those on the outer, from the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, and the musculo-cutaneous. On the f(jre part of the limb there is occasion- ally a small off'set of tlie ulnar nerve near the wrist. On the back and back of of the hand is the termination of the radial nerve ; together with ^'^'"^ the dorsal branch of tlie ulnar nerve. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE (p. 277) is divided into two. internal The anterior branch extends on the front of the forearm as far as the wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the ulnar nerve. The jjosterior branch continues along the iDack of the forearm (ulnar side) to the lower part. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE (cutaueOUS part ; p. 283) is external ])rolonged on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, o\'er which it terminates in cutaneous ofi'sets. Near the wrist the nerve is jDlaced over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel, and su2^])ly the carpal articulations. A little above the middle of the forearm the nerve sends backwards a branch to the posterior aspect, which reaches nearly to the wrist, and communicates with the radial and tlie following cutaneous nerve. The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL external NERVE (p. 277) descends along the hinder part of the forearm as far i^Jl^gcuio"^ as the wrist. Kear its termination it joins the preceding nerve. spiral; The RADIAL NERVE ramifies in the integument of the back of the radial nerve, hand, and some of the digits. It becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and after giving some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two l )ranciies :— One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is ending by distributed on the radial border and the ball of the thumb. external and The other branch (internal) supplies the remaining side of the i^j.g'jl""^^^ thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger; so that the radial nerve distributes the same number of digital branches to the dorsum as the median nerve furnishes to the palmar surface. This portion of the radial nerve communicates with the wiiicii musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nerves ; and the offset to the con- ^V^lg^j tiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined by a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The DORSAL BRANCH OF THE ULNAR NERVE giveS offsets tO the and branch ^ of ulnar290 DISSECTIOX OF FEONT OF FOREAEM. nerve to back of hand and fingers. Extent of nerves on fingers. Deep fascia of forearm : at the wrist; posterior annular ligament. Take away fascia, nerves, and veins. Clean out hollow of elbow. rest of the fingers and the back of the hand. Appearing by the styloid process of the nlna, it joins the radial nerve in an arch across the back of the hand, and is distributed to both sides of the little finger, and to the ulnar side of the ring finger : it communicates with the part of the radial nerve furnished to the space between the ring and middle fingers ; and sometimes it supplies this space entirely. The dorsal digital nerves are much smaller than those on the palmar aspect, and cannot be followed on the fingers farther than the base of the second phalanx. On the sides of the finger each communicates with an ofi'set from the palmar nerve. The APONEUROSIS of the forearm is continuous with the similar investment of the arm. It is of a pearly white colour, and is formed of fibres which cross obliquely. The membrane is thicker behind than in front, and is stronger near the elbow than towards the wrist. At the upper part it receives prolongations from the tendon of the biceps in front, and of the triceps behind ; and it gives origin to the muscles springing from the condyles of the humerus. Longi- tudinal white lines indicate the position of deep processes (inter- muscular septa), which separate the muscles, and give origin to their fleshy fibres. On the back of the forearm the fascia is attached to the hinder border of the ulna, and to the margins of a triangular surface at the upper end of that bone, which is left sub- cutaneous. At the wrist the lascia joins the anterior annular ligament; and near that band the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces it, and receives a sheath from it. Close to the pisiform bone there is an aperture through which the ulnar vessels and nerve enter the fat of the hand. Behind the wrist it is thickened by transverse fibres, giving rise to the posterior annular ligament; but on the back of the hand and fingers the fascia becomes very thin. Dissection. The skin is to be replaced on the back of the fore- arm and hand, in order that the denuded parts may not become dry. Beginning the dissection on the anterior surface of the limb, let the student divide the aponeurosis as far as the wrist, and take it away with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous off'sets of the median and ulnar nerves near the hand. In cleaning the muscles it will be imj^ossible to remove the aponeu- rosis from them at the upper part of the forearm without cutting the muscular fibres. In front of the elbow is the hollow, already partly dissected, between the two masses of muscles arising from the inner and outer sides of the humerus. The space should be carefully cleaned, so as to display the brachial and forearm vessels, the median nerve and branches, the musculo-spiral nerve, and the recurrent radial and ulnar arteries. In the lower half of the foreaini a large artery, radial, is to be ]aid bare along the outer border; and at the inner side, close to the annular ligament, the trunk of the ulnar artery will be recognised as it becomes superficial. These vessels and their branches shouldHOLLOW IX FRONT OF ELBOW. 291 he carefully cleaned ; and the adjoining muscles may be fixed with stitches to prevent their displacement. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist, w^hicli arches over Definp the tendons passing to the hand, is next to be defined. This strong ai^tenoi' band is at some depth from the surface ; and wddle the student ligament, removes the fibrous ti^.sue superficial to it, he must take care of the small branches of the median and ulnar nerves to the palm of the hand. The ulnar vessels and nerve pass over the ligament, and will serve as a guide to its depth. Hollow in front of the elbow (fig. 95). This hollow is situate Hollow in between the inner and the outer muscles of the forearm, and is eibow*^/ ^^'^ triangular in shajje, with the wider part towards the humerus. It is bounded on the outer side by the supinator longus muscle, and boundaries; on the inner side by the pronator teres. The aponeurosis of the limb is stretched over the. space ; and the bones, covered by the brachialis anticus and supinator brevis, form the deep boundary. Contents. In the hollow are lodged the termination of the brachial '^o'ltents of . , . . 1 1 T , . t^^^*^ space; artery, with its veins, and the median nerve ; the musculo-spiral nerve ; the tendon of the biceps muscle ; and small recurrent vessels, with much fat and a fe^v glands. These several parts have the following relative position :—-The and their tendon of the bicejis is directed towards the outer boundary to reach another- the radius ; and on the outer side, concealed by the supinator longus muscle, is the musculo-spiral nerve. Nearly in the centre of the space are the l^rachial vessels and the median nerve, the nerve being internal; but as the artery is inclined to the outer side of the limb, they soon become distant from one another about half an inch. The brachial artery divides here into two trunks—radial and ulnar; and the recurrent radial and ulnar ])ranclies appear in the space— the former on the outer, and the latter on the inner side. Two or three lymphatic glands lie on the sides of the artery, and lymphatic- one below its point of splitting. ° Muscles on the Front of the Forearm (fig. 95). The muscles on the front of the forearm are divided into a superficial and a deep group. In the superficial group there are five muscles, which are fixed to superficial the inner condyle of the humerus by a common tendon, and lie in fJJ'^'JJij^g the under-mentioned order from the outer to the inner side;—five muscles, pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris ; and deeper and larger than any of these is the flexor sublimis digitorum. The deep group will be met witli in a subsecpient dissection (p. 298). The pronator radii teres (fig. 95,^) arises from the inner con- Pronator dyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the ridge above ^'^y^^J the condyle by fleshy fibres, from the fascia, and the septum between ^y^two it and the next muscle, and by a second tendinous slip from the inner ^i^-^i'^s: edge of the coronoid process of the ulna. It is inserted by a flat insertion; tendon into an impression, an inch in length, on the middle of the outer surface of the radius. u 2DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOEEARM. m The muscle is superficial except at tlie insertion, where it is covered by the radial artery, and some of the outer set of muscles, viz., supinator longus, and radial extensors of the wrist. The pronator forms the inner Loundary of the Fig. 95.* triangular space in front of the elbow ; and its inner border touches the flexor carpi radialis. By gently separating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on the Ijrachialis anticus, the flexor sublimis digi- torum, and the ulnar artery and the median nerve : the second small head of origin in- tervenes between the artery and nerve. Action. The pronator assists in bringing forwards the radius over the ulna, so as to ^MM^MUMB pronate the hand. When the radius is fixed^ the muscle raises that bone towards the humerus, bending the elbow-joint. The FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS (fig. 95, ^) takes its origin from the common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becoming free from fleshy fibres about the middle of the forearm, passes through a groove in the trapezium, in a special sheath at the outer side of the anterior annular ligament, to be inserted mainly into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the index finger, and by a slip into that of the middle finger (p. 311). The muscle rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitorum ; but near the wrist it lies over the flexor longus poUicis,—a muscle of the deep group. As low as the middle of the forearm the flexor carpi radialis corresponds externally with the pronator teres, and below that with the radial artery, to which its tendon is taken as the guide. The ulnar border is in contact at first with the palmaris longus muscle, and for about two inches above the wrist, with the median nerve. Action, the hand being free, the muscle first flexes the wrist-joint, inclining the hand somewhat to the radial side ; and it will assist in bringing forwards the lower end of the radius in pronation. Still continuing to contract,, it bends the elbow. * Superficial view of the forearm. (Quain'.s "Arteries.") 1. Eadial artery with its nerve outside. 2. Ulnar artery and nerve. 3. Pronator teres. 4. Flexor carpi radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. 6. Flexor sublimis digitorum. 7. Flexor carpi uluaris. 8. Supinator longus. 9. Biceps.293 RADIAL ARTERY. The PALMARis LONGUS (fig. 95/^) is sometimes absent; or it may Longpaiuuu- present great irregularity in the proportion between tlie fleshy and ^'^"•'^'-'^^ tendinous parts. It arises, like tlie preceding muscle, from the common tendon, the fascia, and the intermuscular septa. Its slender lies over tendon is continued along the centre of the forearm ; and piercing ^aament the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the and joins palmar fascia, sending a slip to the abductor muscle of the thumb, palm; The palmaris is situate between the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Rendering tense the palmar fascia, the palmaris will ^isf. afterwards bend the wrist and elbow, like the last muscle. The FLEXOR CARPI ULNARis (fig. 95, ') arises by a narrow slip in ^{^^[j!/^*:^^"^^^ comuKJu with the other muscles from the inner condyle of the humerus, and from the intermuscnlar septum between it and the origin by flexor sublimis digitorum ; and by a broad aponeurosis from the • inner margin of the olecranon and the posterior border of the ulna for the npper two-thirds of its length. The fibres pass downwards insertion and forwards to a tendon on the anterior aspect of the muscle in Snn^boiie • the lower half, some joining it as low as the wrist ; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone. One surface of tlie muscle is in contact with the fascia ;• and its adjacent tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, serves as the^^^^""' guide to the ulnar artery. To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor profundus digitorum, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels ; between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the forearm. Action. The wrist is bent, and the hand is drawn inwards by the use. contraction of the muscle. The RADIAL ARTERY (fig. 95, ^) is ouc of the vessels derived from ^^'^^^'^^^^^^f''^ the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and extends to the palm of tiie radial the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearm as ^'"^^^y- far as the end of the radius ; next it winds backwards below the lixtremity of that bone ; and finally it enters the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this cir- cuitous course the artery will be found in three different dissections, viz., the front of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of tlie forearm. In this region of the limb the position Situation in of the artery will be marked on the surface by a line from the '^''^ forearm, centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process <jf the ratlins. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial trunk. It is partly deep and partly superficial; and where it is super- ficial, it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist during life. In its upper half the vessel is placed beneath the supinator longus ^^^^^^^^^ (^) ; and it rests successively on the following muscles,—the tendon of the biceps (^), the fleshy supinator brevis, the pronator teres (^), half; and part of the thin origin of the flexor sublimis (").DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. Ill its lower half the artery is superficial, being covered only hy tlie integiiinents and the deep fascia. Here it is placed in a hollow between the tendons of the supinator loiigus (^) and flexor carpi radialis ("*). It lies from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two muscles of the deej) group, viz., flexor longus l^ollicis, and pronator c[uadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Veins. Yenoi comites lie on the sides, with cross branches over the artery. Nerve. The radial nerve is on the outer side of tlie artery in the upper two-thirds of the forearm, but is separated from the vessels by a slight interval near the elbow. In the lower third the nerve passes backwards and becomes superficial behind the tendon of the su])inator longus. Branches. The radial artery in this part of its course furnishes many unnamed muscular and cutaneous ofi^sets, and three named branches, viz., recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent is the first branch, and supplies the muscles on the outer side of the limb. Its course is almost trans- verse to the supinator longus, beneath which it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One off'set ascends beneath the supinator, an<l anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. b. The superficial volar hrancJt (fig. 98, c) is very variable in size, and arises near the lower end of the radius. It is directed towards the palm of the hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb ; and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial j^almar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very small, and v.ill be seen in the examination of the deep muscles. Arising rather above the end of the radius, it passes transversely inwards at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery : from the arch thus formed, ofisets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radial artevji. When the radial arises Ligh in the arm, its course is close to the brachial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle ; and in passing the bend of the elbow it is occasionally subcutaneous, i.e., above the deep fascia, and liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm the aitery may likewise be subcutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor subliinis digitorum, the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near the inner condyle of the humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may be seen entering the under surfaces of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOR suBLiMis DIGITORUM (flex. perforatus ; fig. 95,*^) is the largest of the superficial muscles, and is named from its position to another flexor in the deep set. It arises in common with the fore- going muscles from the inner condyle of the humerus and the intermuscular septa, also from the internal lateral ligament of theULNAR AETERY. 295 elbow-joint and the inner margin of the coronoid process of the ulna; and by a thin layer from the obli(]^ue line of the radius, as well as frequently from the anterior border of that bone for a distance of one or two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres. Below the middle of the forearm tlie muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued beneath the annular ligament and through the hand, to be inscvtsd into the middle phalanges of the insertion; lingers, after being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. The flexor sublimis is in great part concealed by the other reMions; muscles of the superficial group ; and the radial vessels lie on the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they pass beneath the annular ligament of the wrist ;—the middle and ring finger tendons being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. On dividing the condylar and coronoid attachments, the muscle will be seen to cover two deep flexors (flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus poUicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. Action. This flexor bends first the middle and then the proximal use on joints of the fingers ; but when the first phalanges are fixed by the ° '' extensor of the fingers, the superficial flexor moves the second phalanges alone. After the fingers are bent the muscle Avill heli3 in flexing the on elbow ^ and wrist. wrist and eibow-jomts. The ULNAR ARTERY (fig. 96, g) is the larger of the two branches y^Jj^^jj^'^'^^^IJ coming from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and is directed of iiand. along the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand, where it forms the superficial palmar arch, and supplies most of the fingers. In the forearm the vessel has an arched direction ; and its de]_3th from the surface varies in the first and last parts of its course. In the up])er half tlie artery is inclined obliquely inwards from Course in the centre of the elbow to the inner side of the Ihnb. It courses ^P^^^'' between the superficial and deep muscles, being covered by the and reia- pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor j^^Jgcies: sublimis. Beneath it lie the brachialis anticus for a short distance, and the flexor profundus (c). In the lower half it has a straight course to the pisiform bone, jj^^/f'.'^''^^ and is covered by the integuments and fascia, and by the flexor relations to carpi ulnaris. To the outer side are the tendons of the flexor muscles: sublimis. Beneath it is the flexor profundus (c). Veins. Two veins accompany the artery, and are united across ^^J^Jf^^^. it cat intervals. Nerves. The median nerve {') lies to the inner side of the vessel ^en^?^J'.' for about an inch, but then crosses over it to gain the outer side, the coronoid head of the pronator teres being placed between the two. Rather above the middle of the forearm the ulnar nerve (*) reaches the artery, and continues thence on the inner side ; and a small branch f), sending twigs around the artery, courses on it to the palm of the hand. - ■DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 296 position on the annular ligament. Its branches are muscnlar anterior and jiosterior recurrent, On the annular ligament the artery has passed through the fascia, and lies close to the pisi- formhone. The ulnarnerve, with its palmar brancli, still accompanies the ves- sel on the inner side. Branches. The greater nnmher of the offsets of the artery are distributed to the muscles. Its named branches are the follow- ing :— a. The aitterior ulnar recurrent branch frequently arises in common with the next, and ascends on the brachialis anticus muscle, to join the branch of the anastomotic artery beneath the pronator teres. It gives offsets to the conti- guous muscles. h. The 'posterior ulnar recurrent Iranch ((?), of larger size than the ante- rior, is directed beneath the flexor sublimis muscle to the interval between the inner condyle and the olecranon. There it passes Avith the ulnar nerve be- tween the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifica- tions of the inferior pro- funda and anastomotic arteries on the inner side of the elbow-joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the ulnar nerve. ■* Dissection of the deep muscles of the forearm, and of the vessels and nerves between the two groups of muscles. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles: A. Pronator teres, b. Flexor longus pollicis. c. Flexor profundus digitorum. d. Pronator quadratus. e. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Arteries: a. Radial trunk. h. Superficial volar branch, g. Ulnar trunk, d. Its posterior recuri'ent branch, e. Anterior interosseous. /. Median artery. g. Brachial trunk. Nerves: 1. Median. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. Cu- taneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar trunk. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch of ulnar.297 ULNAR NERVE. (\ The interosseous artery is a sliort thick trunk, which is interos- ilirected backwards towards the interosseous membrane, and divides into anterior and posterior branches : the two divisions will be afterwards followed. d. Tlie metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower metacarpal, end of the nlna, and runs along the metacarxDal bone of the little fingei', of which it is the inner dorsal branch. e. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the and carpal, front and back of the carpus, on which they anastomose with cor- responding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. Peculiarities of the ulnar artenj. The origin of the artery may be trans- The origin ferred to any point of the main vessel in the arm or axilla. In one instance R. Quain found the nlnar artery arising between two and three inches below the elbow. When it begins higher than usual, it is generally superficial to the flexor and courst- muscles at the bend of the elbow, but l^eneatli the aponeurosis of the forearm; may ^ary. though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the superficial veins. The ULNAR NERVE (lig. 96,^) enters the forearm between the ulnar nerve iittachments of the tlexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner "Jj*^.^ condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery somewhat above the middle (in length) of the forearm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather deeper than the iirtery. It gives off the following branches :— its branches a. Articular nerves. In the interval between the olecranon and '^^^^^^^^^^ the inner condyle, slender filaments are furnished to the joint. joint, b. Muscular branches arise from the nerve near the elbow, and to two supply the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor pro- ^'^ fundus digitorunr. c. Cutaneous nerve of the forecmii and hand. A small palmar cutaneoni; branch (•') arises about the middle of the forearm, and descends on Jlf*^^ the ulnar artery, sending twigs around that vessel, to end in the hand, integuments of the palm of the hand : sometimes a cutaneous off- set perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand leaves the trunk about cutaneons two inches above the end of the ulna, and passes obliquely backwards IH^^'^^ beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris ; perforating the aponeurosis, it is hand, ilistributed on the back of the hand and fingers (p. 289). The MEDIAN NERVE (fig. 96, ^) IcaVCS the hollow of the elbow Median^ between the heads of the pronator teres, and runs in the middle line {Jetween the <3f the limb to the hand. It is placed beneath the flexor sublimis ^yjJ^f^J^J'J^^. •as low as two inches from the annular ligament, where it becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly, the nerve passes beneath the annular ligament to the palm of the hand. It supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and furnishes a cutaneous offset to the hand.DISSECTION OF FEONT OF FOIiEAEM. 298 it supplies Muscular offsets leave the trunk of tlie nerve near the elbow, and muscles, ^^'^ distributed to all tlie superficial muscles except tbe flexor carpi •imi^aha"/ ^^^^^^^^ ; in addition tlie nerve supplies the deep layer through the interosseous branch (p. 299), except the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. ami a branch The cutaneous 'palmar branch (^) arises in the lower fourth of the hand!^" forearm ; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and crosses. over that band to reach the palm. Radial nerve Tlie RADIAL NERVE is the Smaller of the two branches into which 0 ouaim. musculo-spiral divides at the elbow. This nerve is placed along the outer border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus. (fig. 95), and on the outer side of the radial artery, to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm, where it becomes, it ends on cutaneous at the posterior border of the supinator tendon. It finally halid.^^^^^ divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of the hand and digits (p. 289). No muscular offset is furnished by the nerve. Dissection Dissection {^g. 96). To examine the deep layer of muscles it will muSs: necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm the pronator teres, to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, and to remove its fleshy part. A thin layer of fascia, which is most distinct near the wrist, is to be taken away ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous mem- brane, and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. ^rci^ Over the ends of the forearm bones the arch of the anterior carpal arteries may be defined. Three nms- Deep Group OF MuSOLES. There are three deep muscles on the d?ep"setl^^ front of the forearm. One, covering the ulna, is the deep flexor of the fingers ; a second rests on the radius, the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, which lies beneath the other two, over the lower ends of the bones. Deep flexor The FLEXOR PROFUXDUB DIGITORUM (flex. perforans ; fig. 96, c) of fingers: ^^.^^.^5 from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three- "Jiig'Ji, fourths of the length of the bone, from the inner half of the interosseous ligament for the same distance, and from the aponeurosis of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, and ends in tendons which, passing beneath the insertion; annular ligament, are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers, parts Lying over the muscle are the ulnar vessels and nerve, the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor longus pollicis and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. The portion of the muscle furnish- ing the tendon to the index finger is separated from the rest by a layer of areolar tissue. Action. The muscle bends the joints of the fingers and the wrist ; but it does not act on the last phalanx till after the second has been moved by the flexor sublimis. How fingers The fingers are usually bent in the following order :—firstly, the articulation between the metacarpal and the middle phalanges; around it use on lingers and wrist. are bent.299 ANTEEIOH INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY. secondly, the last phalangeal joiiU ; and thirdly, the metacarpo- phalangeal. The FLEXOR LONGUB poLLicis (hg. 96, b) arises from the anterior Longflexoi- siirface of the radius, as low as the pronator quadratus, and from the outer part of the interosseous membrane ; it is also joined in ' most cases by a distinct slip arising in common with the tiexor sublimis digitorimi either from the internal condyle of the limnerus or the coronoid process of the ulna. The fleshy fibres des^cend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annuUir ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumlj. insertion; The greater part of the muscle is covered by the tiexor sublimis parts above digitorum ; and the radial vessels rest on it for a short distance below. It lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the ^^^} ^^^neath inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. Action. This muscle is the special flexor of the last joint of the thumb, but it also aids in bending the other joints of that digit and tlie wrist. The PRONATOR QUADRATUS (fig. 9G, d) is a flat muscle covering Pronator the lower fourth of the bones of the forearm. It arises from the anterior surface of the ulna, where it is somewhat widened, and is inserted into the fore and inner parts of the radius for about two inches. The anterior surface is covered l)y the tendons of the flexor ^^^^^^^P^^"} muscles of the digits, and by the radial vessels ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with the intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and ner\ e. Along its lower border is the arch formed l)y the anterior carpal arteries. Action. The end of the radius is moved inwards over the ulna by use. this muscle, and the hand is pronated. The ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY (fig. 96, e) is continued on Anterior in- . 11 XI terosseous the front of the interosseous membrane between the two flexors or artery, in the fibres of the flexor profundus digitorum, till it reaches an aperture in the membrane beneath the pronator (j[uadratus. At that spot the artery turns from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the back of the carpus, where it ends by anastomosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches. Numerous offsets are given to the deep muscles. Branches: One long branch, 'median (/), accompanies the median nerve, niusculai median, which it sui^plies, and either ends in the flexor suldimis, or is con tinned beneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. Above the middle of the forearm the medvllartj arteries of the J^^t^^^^Jl^^oJ^g^ radius and ulna arise from the vessel. Where it is about to pass through the hiterosseous membrane and carpal, it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus ; and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE (fig. 96, ') is derived from the Anterior ,> ° 4. +1, interosseous median, and accompanies the artery of the same name to tJie pro- nerve ends nator quadratiis muscle, the under surface of which it enters. pronator. Branches are given by it to the deep flexor muscles.300 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Dissection. Dissection. The attacliiiient of the biceps and bracliialis anticus to the bones of the forearm may be now cleaned and examined. Insertion of The insertion of the hrachialis anticus takes place by a broad thick ant^ciis!^'^ tendon, about an inch in length, which is fixed into the inner and lower 2)arts of the rongh impression on the front of the coronoid process of the nlna. Insertion of Insertion of the hlceps. The tendon of the biceps is inserted into l)iceps. ^j^^ rough hinder part of the tul)erosity of the radius, a bursa separating it from the fore part of the prominence. Near its attachment the tendon is twisted, so that the anterior surface be- comes external. The supinator l3re^ds muscle partly surrounds the insertion. Section V. THE TALM OF THE HAND. Dissection. Clean small palmar muscle, and trace cutaneous nerves. Define the palmar fascia, digital vessels and nerves; and expose digital sheaths. Cutaneous palmar nerves : one from median. the other from ulnar. JJisscction (fig. 98). The digits being separated and fixed firmly with tacks, the skin is t(j be reflected from the palm of the hand by means of two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre from the wrist to the fingers ; and the other is to be made from side to side at the termination of the first. In raising the inner tiaj), the small palmaris brevis muscle will be seen at the inner margin of the hand ; and its insertion into the skin may be left till the muscle has been learnt. In the fat the ramifications of the palmar branches of the median and ulnar nerves are to be traced. The student should remove the fat from the palmaris muscle, and from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand ; and he should take care not to destroy a fibrous band (transverse ligament) which lies across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise, near the fingers, the digital vessels and nerves, and must be especially careful of two,—viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear higher up than the rest, and are more likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be exposed. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid bare. Cutaneous palmar nerves. Small twigs are furnished to the integu- ment from both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two branches descend from the forearm. One is the offset of the median nerve (p. 298) which crosses the annular ligament: it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is imited with the palmar branch of the ulnar : a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 297), and has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand : it is distributed to the uj>per and inner part of the palm.301 PALMAE FASCIA. Tlie PALMARis BREVis (fig. 98, h) is a small flat muscle, aLoiit an inch and a half wide, the fibres of Avhich are collected into separate bundles. It arises from the jDalmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed transversely to their insertion into the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar vessels and nerve. After it has l)een examined it may be thrown inwards with the skin. Fig. 97. "" Action. It draws outwards and wrinkles the skin of the inner side of the palm. /r#. The PALMAR FASCIA or aponeurosis consists of a central and two lateral parts; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thmnb and little finger, are so thin as not to ref|uire a special notice. The central part is a strong, wliite layer, which is pointed at the wrist, but expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Above, the fascia receiws the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is con- nected to tlie annular ligament ; and l)elow, it (!nds in four processes, which are continued downwards, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the pieces from one another some transverse fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbri- calis muscle and the digital vessels and nerve appearing at this spot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are jjrolonged to the integument near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. To follow one of the digital pro- cesses of the fascia to its termination, the super- ficial fibres being first removed, it may be divided longitudinally by inserting the knife beneath it opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Ending of the processes. Each process of the fascia sends back- wards an ofi'set on each side of the tendons, which is fixed to the deep ligament connecting together the heads of the metacarpal bones, and to the edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distance. The superficial transverse ligament of the, fingers is a thin fibrous ])and, which stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is contained in the fold of skin, forming tlie rudiment of a web between them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are con- tinued onwards to their terminations. Sheath of the flexor tendons (Hg. 97). Along each finger the Palmaris brevis is a cutaneous muscle: Palmar fascia : its central part ends in a piece for each finger. and in the skin. Dissection. Deep ending of the pieces of fascia. Transverse ligament of the fingers. Sheath of the tendons * The tendons and short muscles of one finger, vith the slieatli of the flexor tendons, a. Extensor tendon, with interosseous [b) and lumbrical (c) muscles joining it. d. Tendon of flexor subhmis passing into its slieath, the thicker parts of which are marked e and /.DISSECTION OF TflE HAND. 302 vanes m thickness, has a syno- vial sac. Dissection. Superficial palmar arch: position in the hand; relations. Branches : to join the ••leep arch; four digital branches; these join offsets of the deep arch; termination on the fingers; flexor tendons are retained in place against the phalanges by a fibrous sheath. Opposite the middle of the first and second phalanges the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band {vaginal ligament; e and /) Avhich is almost tendinous in consistence ; but opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered and oblique fibres. If the sheath be opened it will be seen to be lined by a synovial membrane, which forms long and slender vascular folds {rincula vascidosa) between the tendons and the bones. Dissection. The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the digital sheaths opposite the joints of the fingers may be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery, and the median and ulnar nerves become aj)parent. Palmar part of the ulnar artery (fig. 98). In the pahn of tlie hand the ulnar artery is directed towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two offsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c), and the branch to the radial side of the fore finger (/). The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the siqjerficial palmar arch (d). Its convexity is turned towards the fingers, and its position in the palm would be nearly marked by a line across the hand from the cleft of the thumb. The arch is comparatively superficial, being covered for the most part only by tlie integuments and the palmar fascia ; but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Yenae comites lie on its sides. Branches. From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital arteries, and from the concavity some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small deep branch arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. a. The deejJ or communicating branch {^profunda; fig. 99, h) passes backwards Avith the deep i^art of the ulnar nerve, between tlie abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery (]>. 309). h. The digital branches (g) are four in number, and supply both sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger. The branch to the inkier side of the liand and little finger is un- divided ; but the others, lying over the three inner interosseous spaces, bifurcate below to supply the contiguous sides of the corre- sponding digits. In the palm these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Near the roots of the fingers they receive communicating branches from offsets of the deep arch ; but the digital artery of the inner side of the little finger has its communicating branch about the middle of the palm. From the point of l)ifurcation the arteries extend along the sides of the fingers ; and over the last phalanx the vessels of opposite sides unite in an arch, from the coiwexity of which offsets proceed to supply the ball of the finger. Branches are furnished to the303 ULiS^AR AXD MEDIAN NERVES. finger and the sheath of the tendons ; and twigs are supplied to the and arches, phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bones— an arch being close above each joint. On the dorsum of the last phalanx is a plexus from which the nail-pulp is supplied. Palmar part op the ulnar nerve (fig. 98/). The ulnar Ulnar nerve nerve divides, on or near the annular ligament, into a superficial ^'^^"^ and a deep part. The deep part accompanies the deep branch of the artery to the divides into muscles, and will be dissected with that vessel (fig. 99). deep and The superficial piart furnishes an off'set to the pal maris brevis superficial muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the inner part of P^^*^- the hand, and ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next. Digital nerves (^). The more internal nerve is undivided, like the Digital corresponding artery. The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of their opposed sides ; in the palm of the hand this branch is connected with an offset (•^) of the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar part of the median nerve (fig. 98,^). As soon as the Median median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament it becomes pfies^inus- cmlarged and somewhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal ciesand parts for the supply of digital nerves to the thumb and the remain- ing two fingers and a half ; the outer part also furnishes a small muscular branch to the ball of the thumb. The branches of the nerve are covered by the fascia and the superficial palmar arch ; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The muscular branch ("*) supplies the outer head of the flexor Branch to brevis, the abductor, and the opponens pollicis muscles. muscles. h. The digital nerves (^) are five in number. Three of them are Five digital undivided, and come from the external of the two pieces into which ^^^^'^'^^: the trunk of the median splits. The other two spring from the inner piece of the nerve, and are bifurcated, each supplying the ojiposed sides of two fingers. The first tivo nerves belong to the thumb, one on each side, and first two, the outer one communicates with a branch of the radial nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and third, gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and fourtii, ■divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth also divides into two branches, which are distributed to fifth, the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it communicates with a branch of the ulnar nerve. Oil the fingers. On the sides of the fingers the nerves are in front On the sidos •of the arteries, and rea^h to the last phalanx, where they end in g^ers- filaments for the ball, and the pulp beneath the nail. In their course downwards the nerves supply chiefly tegumentary branches : lateral offsets.DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 304 one of these is directed backwards by the side of the metacarpal phalanx, and after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 290), is continued to the dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissection Dissection. The tendons • of the flexor muscles may next be mitlonsf''^^^ followed to their termination. To expose them, the ulnar artery should be cut through below the origin of the deep branch ; and Fig. 98.* the superficial volar branch of the radial having been divided, the palmar arch is to be thrown towards the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are also to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned downwards. Divide ^ longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the ment^^'^ ^^^^i^^^^^i' ligament, without injuring the muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thro^vn to the sides. ''^ Superficial dissection of the palm of the Land. (Illustrations of Dissec- tions.) Muscles: a. Abductor pollicis. c. Outer head of flexor brevis. D. Adductor transversus pollicis. H. Palmaris brevis. Arteries : a. Ulnar, h. Radial, c. Superficial volar branch, d. Superficial palmar arch. e. Branch uniting the arch with /, the radial digital branch of the fore finger, g. Digital branches of the superficial arch. Nerves: 1. Ulnar, and 2, its two digital branches. 3. Median, and 5, its digital branches. 4. Branch of the median to thumb-muscles. 5 (On the annular ligament). Communicating branch from the median to the ulnar.305 TENDOXS OF LONG FLEXOR MUSCLES. Fiiuilly, the sheaths of the fingers may he opened in order to and open show the insertion of the tendons. sheaths. Fj.exor Tendons. Beneath the annular ligament the tendc^ns of Synovial sac t-lie deep and superficial fiexors are surrounded by a large and loose temions!^^ synovial niemhrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and d(;wnwards into the hand, and sends an off'set into the digital sheath of the thumb, and sometimes one into that of the little finger. Flexor sublimis. The tendons of the flexor sublimis are super- Supciiiciai ficiaito those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament ; and all four tnuimis are nearl\- on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the in the hand digital sheaths (fig. 97, e) ; and each is inserted by two processes into insertion; the margins of the nuddle phalanx, about the centre. As it enters the sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but opposite the lower half of the first phalanx slit for the it is split for the passage of the latter tendon. * Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- Dissection, brical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. Afterwards tlie synovial membrane and areolar tissue should be taken awa}-. Flexor profundus. At the lower border of the annular liga- iv ndons of ment the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into four ^' ])ieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the index finger is distinct from the rest. From the ligament the four tendons are cross the directed through the hand to the fingers ; and in their course they give origin to the small lumbricales muscles. At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and having passed throuo;h that tendon, is inserted into their , T 1 , , \ ° insertion. the base oi the last phalanx. Between both fiexor tendons and the bones are short folds of the Short folds synovial membrane, one for each. By means of this each tendon is flexor ten- connected with the capsule of the joint, and the lower part of the phalanx immediately above the bone into which it is inserted. The LUMBRICALES (fig. 99, i) are four small muscular slips, which Lumbriciii arise from the tendons of the deep flexor near the annular liga- ""^^^ " ment; the outer two springing each from a single tendon, while the origin; inner two are connected each with two tendons. They are directed to the radial side of the fingers, to be inserted into the expanded insertion; extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 97, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons relations: and vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous for a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. Action. The lumbricales assist in bending the metacarpo- use. phalangeal joints ; and by their insertion into the extensor tendons tliey straighten the interphalangeal joints. Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Beneath the annular ligament j^^^^j^j^g^^^^^f^ this tendon is external to the flexor profundus ; and in the hand it of"thumb • inclines outwards between the outer head of the flexor brevis and the adductor oldiquus pollicis (fig. 99), to be inserted into the last XDISSECTION OF THE HAND. 806 its insertion. Dissection of deep arch. and uf muscles of thumb and little finger. Five mns- cles to tlnimli. Abductor attacli- nients; relations and use. Dissection Opponens tixed to ]netacarpal bone, beneath former: phalanx of tlie thumb. Tlie common synovial membrane f^urrounds it beneatli the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. JHssection (fig. 99). The deep palmar arch with the dee]> branch of the ulnar nerve, and some of the interosseous muscles, will come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lumbricales muscles towards tlie fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student should preserve the fine nerves and vessels entering the inner two lumbrical muscles. The short muscles of the thumb and little finger are next to be prepared. Some care is necessary in making a satisfactoiy separation of the diff'erent small thumb-muscles ; l)ut those of tln^ little finger are more easily defined. Short Muscles of the Thumb (fig. 99). These are five in number. The most superficial is the abductor pollicis (a) ; and lieneath it is the opponens pollicis (b), which will be recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the outer head of the short flexor (c) ; below this and the tendon of the long flexor is the adductor obliquus (c') ; and the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal bone is the adductor transversus (d).'"" The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (a) is the most sujjerficial muscle, and is about an inch wide. It arises from the upper part of the annular ligament on the outer side, and from the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone ; and it is inserted into the base of the first phalanx (jf the thumb at the radial margin, sending a slip to join the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis. The muscle is subcutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis : it is joined at its origin by a slip from the tendon of the palmaris longus, and often by one from the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Action. The abductor pollicis moves the thumb in the direction of its radial border away from the index finger. Dissection.. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting through the abductor. To separate the muscle from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the head of the metacarpal bone, where there is usually a slight interval. The OPPONENS POLLICIS (b) arises from the annular ligauicnt beneath the preceding, and from the outer side of the ridge of the tra])ezium ; and it is inserted into the outer surface and I'adial border of the metacarpal bone for the whole length. This muscle is for the most part concealed by the j^receding, though it projects on the outer side. Along its inner border is the flexor brevis pollicis. Action. It draws the metacarpal bone inwards over the ])alm, It has been usual to describe only four short muscles of the thumb, the adductor obliquus being regarded as the inner head of the flexor brevis. The present division and nomenclature are those adopted by Cunningham, whose comparative investigations have done much to elucidate the homologies of tlie intrinsic muscles of the hand and foot.307 FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS. rotating it at the same time, so as to turn the ball of the thumb towards the fingers, thus producing the movement of opposition. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS (c) COnsists of two separate parts Fle::or or heads, of which only the outer is now visible. It arises from the ^^'^"-'[^^ , consists of two pieces: Fig. 99.* lower border oT the annular ligament on the outer side, and is outer head inserted into the outer margin of the base of the first phalanx of the sesamoid^^ thumb : its tendon contains a sesamoid bone close to its insertion. 'Jo^e; This part of the flexor brevis lies along the inner border of the relations; opponens poUicis, and is superficial to the tendon of the long- flexor. The i'lmer head of the fiexor brevis is a small slip, which is con- inner head cealed by the adductor oblifpius poUicis, and will be subsequently "g^*/.*'^^ seen to pass from the nlnar side of the first metacarpal bone to lie inserted into the first phalanx w^ith that muscle (p. 320). * Deep dissection of the palm of tlie hand. (IHustrations of Dissections.) Muscles : a. Abductor pollicis. b. Opponens pollicis. c. Outer head of f exor brevis pollicis. c'. Adductor obliquus pollicis. ». Adductor trans- versus pollicis. b. Abductor minimi digiti. p. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. 6. Opponens minimi digiti. i. Lumbricales. J. First dorsal interosseous. Vessels : a. Ulnar artery, cut. b. Its deep branch, c. Deep palmar arch. d. Radial digital artery of the index finger, e. Artery of thumb. /. Inter- osseous arteries. Nerves : 1. Ulnar nerve, cut. 2. Its deep x>art, continued at 4, to some of the thumb-muscles. 3. Offsets to the inner two lumbricales. X 2DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 308 Adductov obliqiius : origin; passes to internal sesamoid bone, and sends a slip to external: relations: Adductor transversus joins adductor obliquuK : relation^ and use. Two or three muscles to little finger. Abductoi' is beneath skin: Flexor brevis is often ab- sent : relations; Action. The muscle bends tlie metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and assists the opponens in drawing the thumb forwards and inwards over the palm. The ADDUCTOR OBLiQUUS POLLicis (c') mises from the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, the anterior ligaments of the carpus, the os magnum, and the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. Directed obliquely downwards and outwards, it is inserted into the iTlnar side of the base of the first phalanx in union with the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor transversus, a sesamoid bone being formed in the tendon over the head of the metacarpal bone. From the adductor obliquus a muscular slip usually passes outwards beneath the tendon of the long flexor to join the insertion of the outer head of the flexor brevis. The tendon of the flexor longus poUicis lies between this muscle and the outer head of the flexor brevis ; and its origin is covered by the outer tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbricales. It lies over the inner head of the flexor brevis, the first dorsal inter- osseous muscle, and the ending of the radial artery. Action. It flexes the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and draws the thumb over the palm. The ADDUCTOR TRANSVERSUS POLLICIS (d) is triangular in shape, with the apex at the thumb, and the base in the centre of the palm. Its origin is from the ridge on the lower two-thirds of the palmar aspect of the middle metacarpal bone ; and its insertion is into the inner side of the first j)halanx of the thumb, in common with the last muscle. From the conjoined insertion of the two adductors a slip is sent to the tendon of the extensor longus j^ollicis. The anterior surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the posterior surface lies over the interosseous muscles of the first and second spaces, with the intervening metacarpal bone. The deep palmar arch sejtarates this muscle from the adductor obliquus. Action. It draws the thumb tovv^ards the centre of the palm. Short Muscles of the Little Finger (fig. 99). In the hypothenar eminence there are the abductor and opponens muscles of the little finger, and sometimes a short flexor. The abductor minimi digiti (e) is superficial to the opponens muscle. It arises from the pisiform bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger : an offset from it reaches the extensor tendon on the back of the pha- lanx. The palmaris brevis partly conceals the muscle. Action. Firstly it draws the little finger away from the others ; but continuing to act it l^ends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI (f) is placed at the radial border of the preceding muscle. It takes origin from the tip of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular liga- ment ; and it is inserted with the abductor into the first jjhalanx. It lies on the opponens ; and near its origin it is separated froni the abductor by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and309 EADIAL ARTERY. Action. It tiexes and abducts the first plialanx of tlie little finger, and use. The OPPONENS MINIMI DiGiTi (g) resemhles the opponens i3ollicis opponens in being attached to the metacarpal bone. Its orirjin is from the attach- hook of the unciform bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament : its insertion is into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The opponens is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and relations; beneath it tlie deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Action. It raises the inner metacarpal bone, and moves it towards aii.i use. the others, so as to deepen tlie hollow of the palm. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand between the Dissection first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it will be and ^'^^ ^^^^ requisite to detach the origin of the adductor obliquus poUicis. The <leep palmar arch, and the In-anch of the ulnar nerve accompanying it, together with their ofl'sets, are to be dissected out. A fascia which covers the interosseous muscles is to be removed, interosseous after the dissector has (jbserved its connection ^vith the transverse fasci'a.^^ ^"'^ ligament nniting the heads of the metacarpal Tjones, Radial artery in the HxVND (fig. 99). The radial artery enters Radial the palm at the first interossecnis space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle ; and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finu'er, it turns across the hand fornis deep arch towards the ulnar side, forming the deep arch. The deep imlmar arch (c) extends from the upper end of the first interosseous space to the base of the metacai'pal bone of the little finger, where it joins tlie deep branch of the ulnar artery {h). Its Avinchiies convexity, which is ljut slight, is directed downwards ; and its bonesf'^*^^ situation is nearer the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interosseous muscles. It is covered by the long flexor and beneath tendons, and in part by the adductor obliquus pollicis and oj^ponens ™^iscies, minimi digiti muscles. Two veins accompany it. The hran dies of -^^^"^ the arch are the following :— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the Brandies: front of the carpus ; these supply the bones and joints, and anasto- recurrent; mose with the anterior carpal arteries. b. Three perforating arteries pierce the inner three dorsal inferos- perforating; seous muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries (/), which palmar in- ,. , , -\ 1 • j_ 1 • • • terosseons. lie over the inner three metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the sujierficial palmar arch at the clefts of the fingers. An ottset of the inner one, or a separate branch of the arch, joins the digital artery to the inner side of the little finger (p. 302). These branches supply the interosseous muscles, and the two or three inner lumbricales: they vary much in their size and arrangement. d. Digital branches of the radial. The large artery of the thumb (e) Digital runs along the first metacarpal bone to the interval between the ad- ' ductor obiiquus and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis, where the thumb;310 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. artery of the fore finger. Deep braiu-' of ulnar nerve: muscular offsets. Transverse ligament of metacarpus. Seven inter- osseous muscles, divided into palmai- and dorsal. Palmar go to index, ring and little fingei-s. Dorsal: two to middle finger, one each to index and ring fingers. Common insertion of "both sets. Action as flexors and extensors, as abductor; and adduc- tors. it diwides into the two collateral branches of the tliunib : these are distributed like the arteries of the sujDerficial arch (p. 302;. e. The radial digital branch of the index finger (d) is directed over the first dorsal interosseous muscle (j), and beneath the adductors of the thumb, to the radial side of the fore finger. At the lower border of the adductor transversus (d), this branch is usually con- nected by an off"set with the superficial palmar arch ; and at the end of the digit it unites witli the branch furnished to the oj)posite side by the ulnar artery. The DEEP PART OF THE ULNAR NERA'E (^') accompauies the deep arterial arch as far as the muscles of the thumb, where it terminates in ofl'sets to the two adductors. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives offsets to all the palmar and dorsal interosseous muscles, and to the inner two lum- brical muscles (^), besides the terminal branches before mentioned. The TRANSVERSE METACARPAL LIGAMENT is formed by cross fibres uniting the palmar ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tions of the fingers, and serves to bind together the heads of the inner four metacarpal bones. To its upper border the fascia cover- ing the interosseous muscles is attached. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interosseous muscles. The INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES, SO named from their position betAveen the metacarpal bones, are seven in number. Two muscles occup}' each S2:)ace, except the first, where there is only one. They arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first phalanges of the fingers. They are divided into palmar and dorsal ; but all are seen in the palm of tlie hand, though the former project more than the others. Tlie ixdinar 'muscles (fig. 100), three in number, are smaller than the dorsal, and have each a single origin from the side of the metacarpal bone of the finger to which it belongs. The first is placed on the ulnar side of the index finger, the second and third on the riidial side of the ring and little fingers respectively. The dorsal muscles (fig. 101), one in each space, «?-is-e by two heads from the lateral surfaces of the metacarpal bones between which they lie. The first (abductor indicis) is inserted on the radial side of the index finger, the second on the radial, and the third on the ulnar side of the middle finger, and the fourth on the ulnar side of the ring finger. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 97, b) :— The fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the first or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor- tendon on the dorsum of the bone. Action. They bend the metacarpo-phalangeal joints by their attachment to the first phalanx, and extend the two interphalangeal joints through their union with the extensor tendon. The interosseous muscles also sej^arate and approximate the straightened fingers, the palmar set adducting the index, ring and little fins^ers towards the middle digit : while the dorsal abduct theirANTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT. 311 lingers from the median line of the hand, the two fixed to the middle finger moving it to either side of that line. Dissextion. The attachments of the annular ligament to the carpal Dissection, bones on each side are next to l)e dissected out by taking away the small mii'^cles of the thumb and little finger. Before reading its Fig. 100.*- Fig. 101. t descri2)tion, the ends of the cut ligament may be placed in appo- sition, and fixed with a stitch. The ANTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT is a broad band, which arches Annular over and binds down the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is I'S'^int-iit , ^ ot front attached internally to the pisiform and unciform bones, and ex- of wrist, ternally to the ttiberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium, as well as by a deeper process to the trapezoid bone on the inner side -of the groove for the flexor carpi raclialis. By its upper border it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the forearm ; and on its anterior surface it is joined by the palmar fascia. Over it lie the palmaris longus tendon and the ulnar vessels and nerve. Dissection. Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis Dissection, to its insertion into the metacarpal bones, by dividing the overlying • ] )art of the anterior ligament. The. tendon of the jiexor carpi radialis, in passing from the fore-insertion of arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the trapezium between the faSis'?'^'' attachments of the annular ligament, but outside the arch of that band ; here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the metacarx>al bone of the index finger, and sends a slip to that of the middle digit. The three palmar interosseous inuscle,s. a. Muscle of the little finger ; h, of the ring finger ; and c, of the index finger. t The four dorsal interosseous muscles, d. Muscle of the index finger. >' and f. Muscles of the middle finger, g. Muscle of the ring finger.312 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. Section VI. THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Position. Take away the super- ficial iiervos and the fascia. Position. Durmcj; llie Fis. 102.^=- Strip fingers. Separate muscles. Annular ligament behind th( wrist. dissection of tlie back of tlie forearm llic limb lies on the front, and a small block is to be placed beneatli thi; wrist for the pnrpose of stretchiiii; the tendons. Dissection, (fig. 10!2). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and from the ten- dons on. the back of the hand; but in removing the fascia in the fore- arm, the student must be careful not to cut away the posterior inter- osseous vessels, which are in con- tact with it on the ulnar side in the lower third, A thickened band of the fascia opposite the carpus (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Let the integument be removed from the fingers, in order that the tendons may be traced to the end of the digits. The several muscles should l)e separated from one another up to their origin, especially the two radial extensors of the wrist. The POSTERIOR z\NNULAR LKiA- MENT (k) is a part of the deep fascia, thickened by the addition of transverse fibres, and is situate (jj^posite the lower ends of the * Superficial dissection of tba back of the forearm. (Illustrations of Dissec- tions.) Muscles: a. Supinator longus. B. Extensor carpi radialis longior. c. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. d. Ex- tensor communis digitorum. e. Exten- sor minimi digiti. F, Extensor carpi ulnaris. G. Anconeus. h. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. i. Extensor primi internodii. j. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. K. Posterior annular ligament, l. Bands uniting the tendons of the common extensor on the back of the hand. n. Insertion of the common exten- sor into the second and third phalanges. Arteries: a. Posterior interosseous. 1. Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arch. b. Dorsal interosseous branch. 4. Dorsal branches of thumb and fore lingei'.313 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES. bones of tlie forearm. This band is attached on the outer side to the radius, and on the inner to the pyramidal and pisiform bones. Processes from it are fixed to the bones beneath, and confine the extensor tendons. The ligament will subseciuently be examined more in detail. Superficial Layer of Muscles (tig. 102). The muscles of the Supertieiai back of the forearm are arranged in a superficial and a deep layer, le^en mus- The superficial layer contains seven muscles, which arise, in part by a common tendon, from the outer side of the humerus, and are placed in tlie following order from without inwards ;—the long supinator (a), the long and short radial extensors of the wrist (b and c), the common extensor of the fingers (d), the extensor of the little finger (e), and the ulnar extensor of the wrist (f). Tliere is one other small muscle near the elbow—the anconeus (a). The SUPINATOR RADII T,ONGUS (a) reaches upwards into the arm, Supiuatov and iinuts on the outer side the hollow^ in front of the elbow. It ^'^'^sus: arises from the uj^per two-thirds of the external supracondylar ridge "^'^'^' of the humerus, and from the front of the external intermuscular septum of the arm. The fleshy fibres end about the middle of the forearm in a tendon, which is inserted into the lower end of the uisertion; radius, close above the styloid process. In the arm the maigins of the supinator are directed towards the relations; surface and the bone, but in the forearm the muscle is flattened o^ er the others, with its edges forwards and backwards. Its anterior l)order touches the biceps and the pronator teres ; and the posterior is in contact with both radial extensors of the wrist. Near its insertion the supinator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Beneath the muscle are the brachialis aiiticus and the musculo-spiral nerve, the extensors of the wrist, the radial vessels and nerve, and the radius. Action. The chief use of the supinator longus is to bend thean'iusc, elbow-joint; but if the radius is either forcibly pronated or supinated, radius tvee the muscle caiir imt the hand into a state intermediate between pro- nation and supination. If tlui radius is fixed, as in climbing, the muscle will bring up the and fixed, humerus, bending the ell;)ow. The extensor carpi radialis longior (b) cirises from the lower Extensor third of the external suj^racondylar ridge of the humerus, from i^oii|ior the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum, and from the origin; septum between it and the next muscle. It lies on the short I'adial extensor, being partly covered by the supinator longus ; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal insertion; bone of the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. Action. The long extens(jr straightens the wrist and abducts the and use. hand ; it can also bend the elbow-joint. If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the humerus like the long supinator. The extensor carpi radialis BREVIOR (c) is attached to the Extensor314 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOEEARM. carpi radialis brevior: insertion : parts aronnd it: outer condyle of tlie hiiiuems by a tendon common to it and the three following muscles, viz., common extensor of the fingers, extensor of the little finger, and ulnar extensor of the wrist ; it takes oriain also from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint. The tendon of the muscle is closely applied to the preceding, and after ])assing with it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into the Ijase of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side l)y the two preceding muscles, this extensor rests on the radius and two of the muscles attached to it, viz., supinator brevis, and pronator teres. Along the inner side is the common extensor of the fingers; and tlie extensors of the' thumb issue between the two. Each radial extensor has usually a and ust'. Common extensor of fingers : origin ; division into four tendons; insertion into the plialanges; relations of the muscle; use, on the lin- gers. on elbow and wrist. Extensor of little finger: termination Action. This muscle acts in the same way as its fellow. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DiGiTORUM (d) is single at its origin, but is divided below into four tendons. It arises from the common tendon, from the fascia, and from aponeurotic septa between it and the adjacent muscles. At the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in four tei^dons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle, and are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the second and third phalanges of the fingers. On the fingers the tendons have the following arrangement. On the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an expansion with the tendons of the lumbricalis and interosseous muscles (fig. 97). At the lower part of that phalanx the expansion divides into three parts (fig, 102, n) ;—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, Avhile the lateral pieces unite, and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Opposite the first two articulations of each finger the tendon sends down lateral bands to join the capsule of the joint. On the fore and little fingers the expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits. This muscle is placed i^etween the extensors of the wrist and little finger, and conceals the deep layer. On the back of the hand the tendons are joined by cross l)ands (l) which are strongest between the ring finger tendon and its collateral tendons ; they prevent the ring finger being raised if the others are closed. Action. The muscle straightens the fingers and separates them from each other. It acts especially on the first phalanges, the two interphalangeal joints being extended mainly by the interosseous and lumbricales muscles. The digits being straightened, it will assist tlie other muscles in extending the wrist and the elbow. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DiGiTi (e) IS the most slender muscle on the back of the forearm, and apj^ears to be but a part of the common extensor. Its origin is in common with that of the extensor communis, but it passes through a distinct sheath of the annular ligament. Beyond the ligament the tendon splits into two, and the outer part is joined by the fourth tendon of the common315 EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARI8. extensor : linally, botli parts enter the common expansion on tlie lirst phalanx of the little linger. Action. It extends the little finger and moves hack the wrist and and use. elbow. As the inner -piece of the split tendon is not united with the common extensor, it can straighten the digit during Mexion of the otiicr lingers. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS MUSCLE (f) arises from the Extensor common tendon, the aponeurosis of the forearm, and an inter- ^FP^ muscular septum on its outer side ; it is also fixed by fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). Its tendon becomes Ii'lh^ from Heshy libres near the origin; annular ligament, and passes through a separate sheath in that struc- ture to be inserted into the tuberosity at the base of tlie metacar]3al iusortion; bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer, relations; with part of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little linger, with the posterior interosseous vessels. Action. The ulnar extensor straightens the wrist, and inclines the and use. hand towards the ulnar side : it can then extend the elbow-joint. The ANCONEUS (g) is a small triangular muscle near the elbow. Anconcms: It arises from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct origin; from, and on the ulnar side of the common tendon of the foregoing muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into insertion; the outer side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper third of the posterior surface of the ulna. Tlie upper fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the touches tw lowest of the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus lie the supinator ^^'^^i^^ > bre^'is muscle, and the interosseous recurrent vessels. Action. It assists the triceps in extending the elbow. use. Dissection (fig. 103). For the disj^lay of the deep muscles at the Dissection of back of the forearm, and of the jDosterior interosseous vessels and of nmscks nerve, three of the superficial muscles, viz., extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris, are to be divided above and turned aside ; and the small branches of the nerve and artery entering these muscles may be cut. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed from the muscles, and from the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender and interos- part of the nerve, which sinks beneath the extensor of the second f^u^nervr^^ phalanx of the thumb about the middle of the forearm, should be traced beyond the wrist. The separation of the muscles shoidd be made carefully, since the outer two of the thumb are not always very distinct from each other. Deep Layer of Muscles (fig. 103). In this layer there are five Fivemus- muscles, viz., one supinator of the forearm, and four special extensor (|t^fp^]^ayer. muscles of the thumb and index finger. The highest muscle, partly surrounding the upper third of the radius, is the supinator brevis (d). Below this are the three muscles of the thumb in the following- order ;—the extensor of the metacarpal bone (e), the extensor of the first (f), and that of the second phalanx (a). On the ulna the indicator muscle (h) is placed.DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOEEAEM. 316DEEP MUSCLES. 317 that of the j)receding extensor. Its origin, about one inch in width, origin; is from the radius and the interosseous membrane, close below the attachment of the last muscle. The tendon passes through tlie same space in the annular ligament as the extensor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, insertion With respect to surrounding parts this muscle has similar relations to the preceding. Action. It extends first the proximal phalanx, and then the and use. metacarpal bone, like its companion. The EXTENSOR LONGUS POLLicis (ext. secundi internodii poll. ; g) Extensor of arises from the middle third or more of the ulna below the anconeus, ' pnalanx: along the nlnar side of the extensor of the metacarpal bone ; and orirrin • from the interosseous membrane below, for about an inch. Its tendon, passing through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to he inserted into the insertion; base of the last phalanx. Tlie belly of the muscle is covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris relations; and the extensors of the fingers, but the tendon becomes superficial close to the wrist. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses the extensors of the wrist and the radial artery. Action. It first extends both phalanges of the tliumb, and and use. then lielps in moving backwards tlie metacarpal Ixme and tlie liand. The EXTENSOR INDICTS (indicator ; h) arises on the inner side of indicator the last mnscle from the ulna for three or four inches, usually below ^^^^^^^^^ '■ the middle, and from the lower part of the interosseous membrane. Near the wrist the tendon becomes free from muscular fibres, and origin; passing beneath the annular ligament with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied to, and blends with the external tendon of insertion; that muscle in the expansion on the first plialanx of the fore finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the superficial layer, but it is afterwards subaponeurotic. Action. The muscle can point the fore finger even when tlie three and use. inner fingers are bent ; and it will help the common extensor of the digits in drawing back the hand. Dissection. To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary Dissection to detach the anconeus from the external condyle of the humerus, ^JeviS!"'^*'^' and to cut through the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, the fleshy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. ' The SUPINATOR BREVIS (d) surrouuds the upper part of the origin of radius, except at the tuberosity and the front of the bone below it. ^^JJ'^ f^P^" It arises from the external margin of the ulna for a distance of two inches, as well as from a depression below the small sigmoid cavity ; also from the orbicular ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. The fibres pass outwards and318 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. and ins tion; overlyint and con- tiguous parts; Posterior interosseous artery between the layei's of jnuscles, and sujjer- licial: its recur- rent braneli Posterior interosseous nerve: position to muscles ; termination on back of the carpus; its nmsculai offsets. l^adial artery at wrist: relation parts around, forwards, and are inserted into the upper third or more of the radius, except at the fore and inner parts, reaching downwards to the insertion of the p]'onator teres, and forwards to the ohlique line of the bone. The supinator hrevis is concealed altogether at the jDOsterior and external aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial layer ; and anteriorly the radial vessels and nerve lie over it. The lower ])order is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, only the posterior interosseous vessels (a) intervening. Through the substance of the muscle the ])osterior interosseous nerve (^) winds to the back of the limb. Action. When the radius has been moved over the ulna in pronation, the short supinator comes into play to bring that bone again to the outer side of the ulna. The POSTERIOR INTEROHSEOUS ARTERY (fig. 103, a) is an otfset from the common interosseous trunk (p. 297), and reaches the back of the forearm alcove the membrane between the bones. Appearing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the artery descends at first between the superficial and deep layers of muscles ; and afterwards, with a superficial position in th(! lower third of the forearm, along the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris as far as the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing with the carpal and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes muscular offsets to the surrounding muscles, and the following recurrent branch :— The recurrent branch (h) springs from the artery near the beginning, and ascends on or through the fibres of the supinator, l>ut beneath the anconeus, to supply both those muscles and the elbow-joint ; it anastomoses with the superior profunda arterj^and the recurrent radial. The POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE (^) is derived from the musculo-spiral trunk (p. 286), and winds backwards through the fibres of the supinator brevis. Issuing from the supinator, the nerve is placed between tlie superficial and deep layers of muscles as far as the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that s^^ot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous membrane to the back of the carpus. Finally, the nerve enlarges beneath the tendons of the extensor com- munis digitorum, and terminates in filaments to the articulations of the carpus. Branches. It furnishes oftsets to all the muscles of the deep layer, and to those of the superficial layer with the exception of the three following, viz., anconeus, supinator longus,and extensor carpi radialis longior. Radial artery at the wrist (fig. 103). The radial artery (d), with its vena3 comites, winds below the radius to the back of the carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the Avrist-joint, and beneath the tendons of the extensors of the meta- carpal bone (e) and the fii'st phalanx of the thumb (f) ; but afterwards319 RADIAL ARTERY AT WRIST. it is more superticial, and is crossed hj the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb (g). Offsets of the musciilo-cntaneons nerve entwine around the artery and nerves, (p. 289), and branches of the radial nerve are superficial to it. Its Branches branches are numerous but inconsiderable in size :'■— are small: , a. The dorsal carpal branch (/) passes transversely beneath the to back of extensor tendons, and forms an arch with a corresponding offset of ^'"^''P^^^' the ulnar artery ; this arch is joined by the interosseous arteries. From the carpal arch branches (g) descend to the third and fourth dorsal inter- interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three dorsal interosseous '^•^•'^sous; arteries: at the cleft of the fingers each divides into two, which are continued along the dorsum of the digits. Below, they communicate with the digital arteries ; and above, they are joined by the per- forating branches of the deep palmar arch. b. The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch (fig. 102, h) metacarpal; gains the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and receives, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, a per- forating branch from the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it joins the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and gives small dorsal branches to the index and middle fingers. c. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb (c) arise opposite the dorsal metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to thmnb*^ be distributed on its posterior aspect. d. The dorsal branch of the Mute ^?i^er is distributed on the radial and fore €dge of that digit. The different divisions of the annular ligament may be seen more Sheaths of completely by cutting the sheaths of the ligament over the several ii"ament tendons passing beneath. There are six separate compartments, f^om with- ixnd each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most ex- out inwards, ternal one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollpw for the two radial extensors of the wrist ; and a small space for the long extensor of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger ; and then conies a slender compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal Bones to all is the space for the extensor carpi ulnaris. The last muscle the^tendons grooves the ulna; but the others lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the exception of the extensor minimi digiti which is situate between the bones. Dissection. If the supinator brevis be divided by a vertical in- To see cision, and reflected from the radius, its attachment to that bone sn^nator!*^ Avill be better understood. The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its gangli- interosseous form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist. The posterior surface of the dorsal interosseous muscles of the and inter- hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their insertion J'nuscies. into the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be observed.DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 320 Divide abductor indicis, to show lUnar head of flexor hrevis pollicis. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the jjosterior peiforatmg arteries appear. Lastly, the outer head of the abductor indicis is to be divided, and carefully separated from the first metacarpal bone, so as to display the deep head of the flexor brevis poUicis. The INNER HEAD OF THE FLEXOR BREYLS POLLicis is a slender muscular slip arising from the ulnar side of the base of the first metacarpal bone, and inserted with the adductor obliquus into the inner margin of the base of the first phalanx. It is not always present. Sectiox VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER, ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions. Dissection of external ligaments r shoulder. Shoulder- joint, Looseness. Capsular ligament: attach- ments ; aperture: Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb, which are still moist, may ])e examined at once ; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, while the student learns the others. Dissection. For the preparation of the external ligaments of the shoulder-joint the tendons of the surrounding muscles, viz., sub- scapularis, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the capsule ; and as these are united with it, some care will be needed not to open the joint. The Shoulder-Joint. This ball and socket joint (iig. 104) is formed between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the scapula. Enclosing the articular ends of the bones is a fibrous cap- sule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. The bones are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may be drawn from the scapula for the distance of an inch. The ccqmdar ligament (fig. 90,"''') encloses the articular portions of the bones. It is much thickened above, and slightly so below; and the surrounding tendons are closely adherent to it. By the one end it is fixed around the articular surface of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. By the other the ligament is fixed (fig. 104) to the neck of the humerus close to the articular surface above, but at a little distance down the bone below ; and its attachment is interrupted between the tuber- osities (&) by the tendon of the biceps muscle, over which it is con- tinued, covering in the bicipital groove (fig. 90). On the inner side there is an aperture in the caj^sule, below the coracoid process, through which the synovial membrane of the joint is continuous with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis.LIGAMENTS OF SIIOULDEPt-JOINT. 321 The following muscles surround the articulation ;—above and behind are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres ndnor ; below are the long head of the triceps and the lower part of the subsca|ai- laris ; and internally it is covered by the last-named muscle. On the upper part of the capsule is a thick l)and of fibres—-the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament (fig. 90, which springs from the outer side of the coracoid process of the scapula, and widening over the top of the joint, is attached to the great tuberosity and margins of the bicipital groove. Dissection. To see the interior of the articulation cut circularly through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done, the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid ligament, and the tendon of the biceps will be manifest. The tendon of the hiceijs nmscle arches over the head of the humerus, Fi^. 104.* muscles around; accessor)- bund. Dissection of internal structures. Tendon of the biceps. and serves the purpose of a ligament in supporting the bone. It is attached to the upper part of the head of the scapula (fig. 104, d), and is united on each side with the glenoid ligament. At first flat, it afterwards becomes round, and enters the groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, where it is surrounded by the synovial membrane. The glenoid liganient (fig. 104, c) is a fibrous band, which surrounds Glenoid the fossa of the same name, increasing it for the reception of the i'sa"^«rit- head of the humerus. It is about two lines in width, and is con- nected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps ; but most of its fibres are fixed separately to the margin of the glenoid fossa. The synovial memhrane lines the articular surface of tlie capsule, Synovial -. . . -. ■> -I -. 1 • • T J. ■ • J.1 luembran- and IS contmued through the aperture on the inner side to join the ^' View of the interior of the shoulder-joint, a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus, b. Interval of the bicipital groove, c, Grlenoid hgament around the glenoid fossa, d. Tendon of the long head of the biceps fixed at the top of the fossa. Y322 DISSECTION OF UPPEE, LIMB. Surface of humerus; of scapula. Kinds of movement. Flexion and are accom- panied by rotation of scapula. Condition of head of humerus. Checks to movements. Abduction. Adduction. Circum- duction. Rotation ; bursa beneath tlie subscapular muscle. The membrane is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the upper part of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Articular surfaces (fig. 104). The convex articular head of the humerus is about three times as large as the hollow of the scapula, and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone is supported on a short neck, which is joined to the shaft at an obtuse angle. The glenoid fossa of the scapula is oval in form with the larger end down, and is very shallow. Its margin is slightly more promi- nent below than above. Movements. In this joint there is the common angular motion in four directions, with the circular or circumductory ; and in addition a movement of rotation. In the swinging to and fro movement, the carrying forwards and inwards of the humerus constitutes flexion; and the moving it backwards and outwards, extension. Flexion is freer than extension ; and as the joint is bent the scapula follows the humerus, undergoing a rotation upwards, so that the whole range of movement of the arm in this direction is much greater than that taking place in the scapulo-humeral articulation. In extension the scapula is similarly rotated downwards, the lower angle approaching the vertebral column. During these movements the head of the humerus rests in the bottom of the glenoid fossa, rotating around an axis that is nearly perpendicular to the plane of that cavity ; and there is no tendency to dislocation either from the rapidity or extent of the movement. Flexion of the humerus upon the scapula is checked by the twisting of the cajosule, and by the meeting of the small tuberositj^ of the former bone with the coraco-acromial arch. Extension is limited mainly by the coraco-humeral ligament. Abduction and adduction. In abduction, the arm is moved out- wards and forwards away from the body ; and in adduction, it is brought downwards to the side. These movements, like the fore- going, are accompanied, and their range is increased by rotation of the scapula. When the limb is abducted, the head of the humerus glides downwards in the glenoid cavity, and ]Drojects beyond it against the lower part of the capsule, which is stretched ; while the great tuberosity sinks beneath the acromial arch, which sets a limit to the movement. In this condition a little more movement down of the head, either by muscles depressing it or by force elevating the farther end of the bone, will throw it out of place, giving rise to dislocation. In adduction, the head of the humerus rises in the socket, and the coraco-humeral ligament being tightened checks the movement. In circumduction^ the humerus passes in succession through the four difierent states above mentioned, and the limb describes a cone, the apex of which is at the shoulder and the base at the digits. Rotation. There are two kinds of rotatory movement, viz., in and out ; and in each the humerus revolves around an axis passing fromLIGAMENTS OF ELBOW-JOINT. 323 the centre of the head through the shaft to the lower end of the bone. In rotation in, the great tuberosity moves forwards and inwards, the head of the bone glides backwards in the glenoid cavity, and the hinder part of the capsule is rendered tense. In rotation out, the movements of the parts of the humerus are re- versed, and the front of the capsule is stretched. Fig- 105.* The movements are stopped by the tightening of the capsule, assisted by the muscles on the back and front of the joint respectively. Dissection. To make the necessary dissection of the ligaments of the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint. The muscles connected with the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus digitorum, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments—an- terior, posterior, and two lateral—will come into view. . The interosseous membrane between the bones of the forearm will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both surfaces. The Elbow-Joint (fig. 105). In this articu- lation the lower end of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as to produce a hinge-like arrangement ; and the upper end of the radius assists to form the outer part of the joint. Where the bones touch, the surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and they are united by the fol- lowing ligaments :— The externcd lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, which is attached by one end to a de- pression below the outer condyle of the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament round the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backwards to the external margin of the olecranon. The internal lateral ligament is triangular in shape. It is pointed at its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner condyle of the humerus. The fibres diverge, and are inserted in this way :—The anterior, which are the strongest, are fixed to the edge of the coro- noid process ; the posterior are attached to the side of the olecranon ; and a few middle fibres join a transverse band over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with the ligament; and vessels enter the joint by the aperture beneath the transverse band. in, and out. Dissection of the elbow- joint. Bones forming the elbow-joint. External lateral ligament. Internal lateral lis'ament. * The ligaments of the elbow-joint, and of the radius and ulna (Bourgery). 1. Capsule of the elbow-joint. 2. Oblique ligament. 3. Interosseous membrane. 4. Aperture for blood-vessels. 5. Tendon of the biceps. Y 2324 DISSECTIOX OF UPPER LIMB. Anterior lisrameiit. Posterior ligament. Dissection Synovial membrane. Lower end of the liuinerus: two articu- lar surfaces. and three fossa'. Upper end of the ulnii, Head of tht; radius. Kinds of motion: bending: extendint Radius is joined to The anterior ligar)ient is tliiii, and its fibres are separated hj intervals in wHcli masses of fat are lodged. By its upper edge the ligament is attached to the front of the humerus, and by its lower to the front of the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The brachialis anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is much thinner and looser than the an- terior, and is covered completely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon; and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissection. Open the joint by an incision across the front near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the articulai- surfaces may be seen. The synovial memhrane of the joint passes from one bone to another along the deep surface of the connecting ligaments. It is continued downwards on the inner surface of the orbicular ligament, and serves for the joint of the head of the radius with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces. The articular surface of the lower end of the humerus is divided into two parts for the bones of the forearm. That for the radius, on the outer side, forms a rounded eminence (capitellum) which is confined to the front of the bone. The surface in contact Avith the ulna (trochlea) is limited internally and externally by a prominence, and hollowed out in the centre. On the front of the humerus above the articular surface are two de- pressions which receive the coronoid process and the head of the radius during flexion of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the joint. On the end of the ulna the articular surface of the great sigmoid . cavity is narrowed in the centre, but exj)anded above and below (fig. 106). A median ridge, which is received into the hollow of the trochlea, extends from the upper to the lower end of the fossa; and across the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting over a small space between the coronoid and olecranon processes. The head of the radius presents a circular depression with a raised margin, which plays over the ca]3itellum of the humerus. Movement. This joint is like a hinge in its movements, per- mitting only flexion and extension. In flexion^ the bones of the forearm move forwards, each on its- own articular surface, so as to leave the back of the humerus uncovered. The movement is checked by the meeting of the arm and forearm ; and the posterior and internal lateral ligaments are stretched. In extension, the ulnar and radius are carried back over the articular surface of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm- bone. This movement is checked by the anterior ligament, and the muscles on the front of the joint. Union of the Eadius and Ulna. The radius is connected with the ulna at both ends by means of synovial joints, with sur-UNION OF EADIUS AND ULNA. 325 rounding ligaments ; and tlie shafts of the bones are united by interosseous ligaments. Upper radio-ul^^ar articulation. In this joint the head of the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavit}^ of the ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band :— The annular or orbicular ligament (fig. 106, a) is about one-third of an inch wide, and is stronger behind than before ; it is placed around the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and posterior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border, the thicker, is connected with the ligaments of the elbow-joint; but the lower is free, and is applied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the cavity of the ulna the radius moves freely. The synovial meyahrane is a pro- longation of that lining the elbow- joint; it projects inferiorly between the neck of the radius and the lower margin of the annular liga- inent. Ligaments of the shafts OF the bones. The aponeurotic stratum connecting together the bones in nearl}^ their whole length consists of the two following parts:— The interosseous nicmhraue (tig. 105, ^) is. a thin tibrous layer, which is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, and forms an incomplete septum l)etween the muscles on the front and back of the forearm. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, though a few on tlie posterior surface have an opposite direction. Superiorly, the membrane is wanting for a considerable space, and through the interval the posterior inter- osseous vessels pass backwards. Some small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels ; and the largest of these (■*) is about t^vo inches from the lower end, through which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the Avrist. The membrane gives attach- ment to the deep muscles. The oUique ligament (fig. 105,-) is a slender band above the inter- osseous ]nembrane, the fibres of which have a direction opposite to those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the lower end of the coronoid process, and by the other to the radius below the tuberosity. The ligament divides into two the space above the in- terosseous membrane. Oftentimes this band is not to l)e recognised. at the upper end by orbicular ligament around the head of the >)one: is ilelicieut above; oblique ligament. * View of the orbicular ligament [a), which retains the upper end of the radius against the ulna.DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. The lower radio-tilnar articulation cannot be well seen till after the examination of the wrist-joint (p. 327). Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and back- wards npon the ulna. The forward motion, directing the palm of the hand backwards, is called pronation ; and the backward move- ment, by which the palm of the hand is turned to the front, is named supination. In pronation, the upper end of the bone rotates within the band of the orbicular ligament without shifting its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing nearly half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the ulna. In siqjination, the lower end of the radius turns backwards over the ulna ; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius^ being external ; and the upper end rotates from within out in its- circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round a line, internal to the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head of the bone, and downwards through the styloid process of the ulna. The upper end of the bone is kept in place by the orbicular ligament; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage ; and the shafts are united by the interosseous ligament, which is tightened in supination, and relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease ; in the one case because the radius cannot be moved unless it is entire ; and in the other because the broken ulna cannot support the revolving radius. In the natural actions of pronation and supination, especially when the elbow is bent, there is generally associated with the move- ment of the radius a slight degree of circumduction, but without appreciable rotation, of the ulna in a direction opposite to that in which the radius travels, i.e., backwards and outwards in pronation, inwards and forwards in supination. Dissection. To see the ligaments of the wrist-joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from both the front and back ; and the fibrous structures and the small vessels should be taken from the surface of the ligaments. The Wrist-Joint (radio-carpal articulation; fig. 107). The lower end of the radius, and the first row of the carpal bones, except the pisiform, enter into this joint. Four ligaments connect the bones, viz., anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out from the articulation by a piece of fibro-cartilage. The external lateral ligament is a short band, which passes from the styloid process of the radius to the outer part of the scaphoid bone. The internal lateral ligament is longer and thicker than the external. It is attached by one end to the styloid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough upper part of the pyramidal bone. Some of the anterior fibres are continued to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament (fig. 107,^) springs from the radius, and is. inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform on the anterior surface. 'THE WRIST-JOINT. S27 The 2^osterior ligament (fig. 110,^) is membranous, like the posterior anterior, and its fibres are directed downwards and inwards from ^ig^^^nt.s. the radius to the same three carpal bones on the posterior aspect. Dissection. To see the form of the articular surfaces, the joint Dissection may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus. Articular surfaces. The end of the radius, and the (fig. 108, c) imiting it with 107.* fibro-cartilage Surface of radius: opposed surfaces. the ulna form a shallow socket for the reception of the carpal bones ; and the sur- face of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, and an internal square impression. The three carpal bones of the first row constitute a convex eminence, which is received into the hollow before men- tioned in this way ; — the scaphoid bone is opposite the external mark of the radius; the semilunar bone touches the square impression and the greater part of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; while the small articular surface of the pyramidal bone is in contact with the apex of the fibro-cartilage and the adjoining part of the capsule. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple Synovial joints. This joint communicates occasionally with the lower radio- ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage between the two. Movements. The principal movements taking place in the radio- Kinds of carpal articulation are flexion and extension. Lateral motion occurs niotion: naturally only to a very limited extent. Flexion and extension. In flexion the hand is moved forwards, flexion; while the carpus glides on the radius from before back, and projects behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In extension the hand extension, is carried backwards, and the row of carpal bones moves in the opposite direction, viz., from behind forwards, so as to cause the anterior ligament to be tightened. The backward movement is not so free as the forward. Lower radio-ulnar articulation. In this articulation the J/'^^^.^^*^" head of the ulna is received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius ; aiui ulna joined by * Front view of the articulations of the wrist, and carpal and metacarpal bones (Bourgery). 1. Anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. 2. Capsule of the joint of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. 3. Pisiform bone, with its ligamentous bands. 4. Transverse bands uniting the bases of the metacarpal bones.DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 328 capsule, triangular fibro-carti- lage: attach- ments, and rela- tions. Synovial nieinbrano. Bones are joined into two rows. Dissection of carpal and meta- carpal joints. How first row is united. Separate ligaments of pisiform hone. Second row is like first. —an arrangement just the opiDosite to tliat between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro- cartilage ; but a kind of ccqmde, consisting of scattered fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fihro-cart/lage (fig, 108, c) is placed transversely below the end of the ulna, and is tliickest at its margins and apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which se23arates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid pi'ocess of the ulna, and the depression at the root of that projection. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior ligaments of the Avrist-joint; and its surfaces enter into the radio-carpal and the lower radio- ulnar articulations. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane is very loose, and ascends between the radius and the ulna : it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. The motion in this articulation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 326). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the carpus (except the pisiform) are united into two rows by small dorsal, palmar, and interosseous bands ; and the two rows are connected together by wide sej^arate ligaments. Dissection. The articulations of the carpal bones with each other Avill be prepared b}^ taking away all the tendons from the hand, and cleaning carefully the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments from the pisiform bone to the unciform and fifth meta- carpal are to be defined in the palm. At the same time the ligamentous bands uniting the metacarpal with the carpal bones, and with one another should be dissected. Bones of the first row (fig. 109). The semilunar bone is united to the scaphoid and j)yi'amidal by dorsal (d) and loalmar transverse bands ; as well as by small interosseous ligaments at the up23er part of the contiguous surfaces. The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the pyramidal by a distinct capside and sipiovial sac. It has further two special ligaments ; one of these is attached to the process of the unciform, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The bones of the second row (fig. 109) are connected together in the same way as those of the first, viz., by a dorsal {i) and a * Lower ends of the forearm bones with the uniting fibro-cartilage, a. Ivadius, b. Ulna. c. Triangular fibro-cartilage.329 ARTICULATIONS OF CARPUS. palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between the con- tiguous rough surfaces of the several bones are interosseous ligaments, one in each interval. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted a oHdino- between the different carpal bones, in consequence of the flattened articular surfaces, and the short ligaments uniting one to another ; and this is less in the second than in the first row. One row with another (transverse carpal joint ; fig. 109). Transverse The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and ^^^^^^ J^i"*: X^osterior. and two lateral ligaments. The anterior liyament (jj) consists of strong fibres, which for the anterior, most part converge from the three bones of the first row to the os magnum. The j^ost^rior ligament is thinner and looser ; and its posterior, strongest fibres are transverse. Of the lateral ligaments the external (/.•) is tlie better marked, and and lateral extends between the trape- zium and scaj)hoid bones ; the internal (l) passes from the j^yra-iiiidal to the un- ciform bone. Dissection. After the di- vision of the lateral and posterior ligaments, the one row of bones may be sepa- rated far enough from the other to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. Articular surfaces. The three bones of the first row, viz., scaphoid (a), semi- lunar (/)), and pyramidal (c), together form tin arch with its concavity turned down- wards, while externally the scaphoid presents a convexity to the second row. The lower articular surface has a corresponding form, the os magnum and unciform making up a condyloid projec- tion which is received into the arch of the first row, and the trapezium and trapezoid forming a slight hollow for the convexity of the scaphoid bone. One synovial sac serves for the articulation of all the carpal bones, Ouesyno\'ial except the pisiform with the pyramidal. The cavity extends trans- Se^ai>ai versely between the two rows of the carpus, and is continued bones, upwards and downwards between the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes open into the cavity of the * Articulations of the carpal bones, the joint between the two rows being opened behind, a. Scaphoid bone. h. Semikmar. c. Pyramidal, d. Dorsal transverse bands between those bones, e. Trapezium. /. Trapezoid, g. Os magnum, k. Unciform, i. Dorsal transverse bands joining the bones, k. External lateral ligament of the intercarpal joint. I. Internal latei'al ligament, p. Anterior ligament. ligaments.330 DISSECTION OF UPPEE LIME. .•i,nd some meta- carpals. Kinds of motion : flexion extension. Combined movements of radio- carpal and trans^'erse carpal joints : flexion and extension : abdnction: adduction and circum- duction. Metacarpal bones joined at bases, with synovial joints, and at heads. Carpal and metacarpal joints. That of the thumb. wrist-joint ; but the offsets in the opposite direction are three, and may be continued to all, or only to some of the articulations between the four inner metacarpal with their carpal bones. Movements. Owing to the irregular shape of the articular surfaces, only forward and backward movements are permitted in the trans- verse carpal joint. Flexion. As the hand is brought forwards, the os magnum and unciform move backwards in the socket formed by the first row, while the trapezium and trapezoid advance over the scaphoid, and the posterior ligament is tightened. Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. The trapezium and trapezoid glide backwards over the scaphoid, and the OS magnum and unciform project on the palmar aspect, the move- ment being checked by the anterior ligament of the joint and the strong flexor tendons. The axes upon which the movements of flexion and extension of the radio-carpal and transverse carpal joints take place are not strictly transverse, but oblique in opposite directions, that of the proximal articulation having its inner end directed forwards, while that of the distal articulation is inclined from ^Aithout inwards and backwards. In order therefore to move the hand directly forwards or backwards, both joints are called into play simultaneousl}''. By a combination of flexion in the one joint with extension in the other, lateral movements {abduction and adduction) of the hand are produced. Thus, abduction results from flexion of the radio- carpal and extension of the transverse carpal articulation, and ad- duction, which is the freer movement, from extension of the radio-carpal and flexion of the transverse carpal joint. In circum- duction the hand passes successively through the several states of angular movement, describing a cone with the apex at the wrist^ and the excursion is greater in the direction of flexion and adduction than in the opposite directions. Union of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the four fingers are connected at their bases by the following liga- ments :—A dorscd (fig. 110) and pcdmar (fig. 107) fasciculus of fibres- passes transversely from each bone to the next ; and the bands in the palm are the strongest. Besides these, there is a short interosse- ous ligament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones. Where the metacarpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage; and between the articular surfaces there are prolongations of the synovial cavity serving for their articulation with the carpus. At their distal ends the same four metacarpal bones are connected by the transverse lirjament, which was seen in the dissection of the hand (p. 310). Union of the jMetacarpal and Carpal Bones. The meta- carpal bones of the fingers are articulated with the carpal bones after one plan ; but the bone of the thumb has a separate joint. The metacarpcd hone of the thumb articulates with the trapezium ; and the ends of the bones are encased in a capsular ligament (fig. 107, ^), which is lined by a simple synovicd membrane.331 CAEPO-METACAEPAL ARTICULATIONS. The thumb-joint possesses angular movement in opposite direc-Motion: tions, with opposition and circumduction, thus :— Flexion and extension. When the joint is flexed, the metacarpal bending bone is brought in front of the palm ; and as the movement proceeds, the thumb is gradually turned towards the fingers, passing into the state of oioposition. In this way the thumb may be made to touch and opposi- the palmar surface of any or all of the fingers, the phalanges of tlie ^^^^' latter being somewhat bent at the same time. Extension of the extending; joint is very free, and by it the metacarpal bone is removed from the palm towards the outer border of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the thumb is and lateral placed in contact with, or removed from the fore finger. motion. The metacarpal hones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands from Joints of the carj)al bones on both aspects, thus :— tingeis The dorsal ligaments (fig. 110) are tvv'o to each, except to the have dorsal bone of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal Fig- 110.* bone of the fore finger come from the trapezium and tra- pezoid ; those of the third metacarpal are attached to the trapezoid and os mag- num ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bands from the os magnum and unciform ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one ligament from the unci- form. The palmar ligaments (fig. 107), usually one to each metacarpal bone, are weaker and less constant than the dorsal. These liga- ments may be oblique in direction ; and sometimes a band is divided between two, as in the case of a ligament passing from the trapezium to the second and third metacarpals. One or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is lateral band, a longitudinal lateral land, which is attached above to the os mag- num and unciform, and below to a rough part on the inner side of the base of the above mentioned bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This band may be seen by opening from behind the articulation between the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by * Posterior ligaments of the wrist, and carpal and metacarpal bones (Bourgery). 1. Posterior radio-carpal, 2. Carpo-metacarpal capsule of the thumb. 3, 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones.DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. cutting through the transverse ligaments joining tlie third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. Movement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement exists in the articulations of the leases of the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers ; but in the ring and little lingers the motion is greater, with a slight degree of opposition. Dissection. The articular surfaces of the bones in the carpo-nieta- carpal articulation may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the fore finger lias a broad, notched articular surface, which receives the prominence of the trapezoid bone, and articulates laterally with the trapezium and OS magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the os magnum. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger touches the u]iciform bone and the os magnum. And the little finger bone is ojDposed to the unciform. Synovial sacs. Usually two synovial sacs are interposed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz., a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and ofi'sets of the common carpal synovial sac (p. 330) for the others. Sometimes there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the two inner metacarpals with the unciform bone. Interosseous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between tlie bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from another ; and those uniting the adjacent carpal bones may be shown in the same way. Dissection. For the examination of the joint between the head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger, it will be requisite to clear away the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. Oiie of the joints may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the jjhalanges of the fingers. Uniox of Metacarpal Bone and First Phalanx (fig. 111). In this joint the convex head of the metacarpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, and the two are united by the following ligaments :—• The lateral ligament (a) is the same on both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached above to the lower part of the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and below it is inserted into the phalanx and the anteiior ligament. The anterior ligament (h) is a strong and dense band, which is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone: It is grooved for the fiexor tendon ; and to its sides the lateral liga- ments are united. On the dorsal aspect of the joint, the capsule is completed by a thin layer of connective tissue which supports the synovial mem- brane, and is closely covered by the extensor tendon. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are con-333 JOINTS OF PHALANGES. Fk. 111. iiectecl with the anterior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of tlie lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in four opposite directions, together with circumduction, take place in these condyloid joints. Flexion and extension. In flexion, the phalanx glides forwards over the head of the metacarpal bone, and leaves this exposed to form the knuckle when, the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon are put on the* stretch as the joint is bent. In extension, the phalanx moves back- wards to slightly beyond the line of the metacarpal bone, so that the two form an obtuse angle. Tlie anterior ligament and the flexor tendons are stretched, and limit the movement. Abduction and adduction are the lateral movements of the finger from or towards the middle line of the hand. The lateral ligament of the side of the joint which is rendered convex is tightened, and the other is relaxed. The circumductory motion is less impeded in the fore and little fingers than in the others. In the joint of the thumb the movements, especially to the side, are much less extensive than in the fingers. Union of the Phalanges. The ligaments of these joints are similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, viz., two lateral and an anterior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form. Each is connected hy its apex to the proximal phalanx at the side of the head ; and by its base to the distal phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament has the same mode of attachment between the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, but it is not so strong. Tliere is a simple synovial memhraae jDxesent in the joint. The joint of the second with the last phalanx is like the preceding in the number and disposition of its ligaments ; but all the articular bands are much less strongly marked. Articular surfaces. The head of each phalanx is marked by a pulley-like surface. The base presents a hollow on each side of a median ridge, which fits into the central depression of the opposed articular surface. Movements. The two interphalangeal joints can be bent and straightened like a hinge. Flexion and extension. In flexion, the distal phalanx moves round the proximal in each joint, and the motion is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon : in the joint between the middle and the metacarpal phalanx this movement is most extensive. In exten- sion the farther phalanx conies into a line with the nearer one, and the motion is sto2:)ped by the anterior ligament and the flexor tendons. Kinds of motion: bending: extending lateral motion circumduc- tory. Joints of the phalanges have lateral and anterior ligaments. Synovial .sac. Last joint. Surfaces of the bones. Kinds (if motion: bending. extending.334 CHIEF ARTEfllES OF UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE CHIEF ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. / Sui:)erior thoracic acromio-thoracic . The subclavian is continued in the arm by 1. Axillary artery . 2. brachial artery . 3. radial artery , 4. ulnar ^ artery long thoracic alar thoracic subscapular anterior circumflex posterior circumflex external mammary. Superior profunda. medullary inferior profunda anastomotic muscular. ■ Recurrent muscular sujierflcial volar anterior carpal X)Osterior carjjal dorsal interosseous dorsal of thumb dorsal of index finger volar of thumb radial of index finger deep arch , r Acromial J thoracic ' 1 clavicular I humeral. /Dorsal scapular ' ( muscular. / Infrasca- \ pular. fMuscular to triceps and anconeus ^anastomotic. / Muscular to triceps ■ 1 anastomotic. r Recurrent 3 perforating 1 palmar inter- L osseous. Antei-ior recurrent posterior reciirrent interosseous , . . . muscular metacarpal anterior carpal posterior carpal communicating to deep arch superficial arch Anterior posterior r Medullary < median V. muscular. / Recurrent 1 muscular. TFour digital branches 4 cutaneous I muscular.SPINAL NEEVES OF UPPER LIMB. 336 TABLE OF THE SPINAL NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. . r External /Anterior thoracic .| internal. Brachial Plexus gives off below the clavicle . subscapular circumflex nerve of Wrisber' rSuperior . -! middle or long ^.inferior, /'Articular \ cutaneous •') to teres minor C to deltoid. ^ Small cutaneous internal cutaneous A anterior of forearm C i)osterior of forearm. niusculo-cutaneou s median. ulnar To coraco-brachialis, biceps and brachialis anticus external cutaneous of forearm articular to carpus. ' To pronator teres, flexor radialis palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis anterior interosseous cutaneous palmar to muscles of thumb in part Ave digital branches. ^ Articular to elbow to flexor carpi ulnaris to flexor profundus in part cutaneous branch of forearm palm dorsal cutaneous of the hand superficial palmar division. . deep palmar nerve. and r Communicating -! two digital I branches. ^ musculo-spiral / Internal cutaneous to triceps and anconeus I external cutaneous I to supinator longus and extensor j carpi radialis longior posterior interosseous \ radial / Muscular * \ articular. [ Cutaneous of back of thumb, of in- . - dex and middle fingers and half \ the ring.CHAPTER lY. DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Section I. CAVITY OF THE THORAX. Definition. Contents of cavity. Dissection to open thorax. Sternum to be kept. Form in general; on a cross section. Boundaries, The cavitj^ of the thorax is the space included by the spinal column, the sternum, and ribs, and by certain muscles in the intervals of the bony framework. In it the organs of resj)iration, and the heart with its great vessels are lodged ; and through it the gullet, and some vessels and nerves are transmitted. Dissection. Supposing the soft parts covering in front the bony parietes of the thorax to have been examined and taken away, the cavity is to be opened by removing a portion of the anterior boun- dary. To make a sufficient opening in the thorax, the sternum is to be sawn through opposite the interval between the first and second ribs, and again between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. After detaching the lining membrane (pleura) from the inner surface of the chest-wall, the student is to cut through the true ribs, except the first and seventh,* as far back as he can conveniently reach. The loose sternum and the ribs can be removed by dividing the internal mammary vessels, the triangularis sterni, and tlie inter- costal muscles in the first and sixth spaces. The bag of the pleura, and the cavity with its contents will now be ready for examination. The sternum and the cartilages of the ribs will be required here- after for the dissection of the ligaments. Form. The included cavity is irregularly conical, with the scpex above and the base below ; and it appears, from the collapsed state of the lungs, to be only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant sj^ace is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a horizontal section its shape would appear broadly cordiform ; for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished in the middle line by the prominent spinal column, and projects backwards on each side of the spine. Boundaries. On the sides are the ribs with the intercostal muscles; in front is the sternum ; and behind is the spine. * The student must leave these ribs uncut; the division of them will not he advantageous to him, and will injure the dissection of the neck and abdomen.337 BOUNDARIES AND SIZE. The base is constructed at the circumference by tbe last dorsal The base, vertebra behind, by the end of the sternum in front, and by the ribs Avith their cartilages on each side ; while the space included by the bones is closed by the diaphragm. The base is wider transversely than from before back, and is form of convex towards the chest; though at certain spots it projects more than at others. Thus in the centre it is slightly lower than on each side, and is on a level with the base of the ensiform process. On the right side it rises to a level with the upper border of the fifth and heigiit: rib near the sternum ; and on the left, to the corresponding part of the upper border of the sixth rib.* From the lateral projections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but more behind than before, so as to leave an angular interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of this attached its side edge will be marked by an oblique line, over the side of the chest, from the base of the ensiform process to the eleventh dorsal spine ; but it differs slightly on the two sides, being rather lower on the left. The apex of the space is continued higher than the osseous boun- -^pex dary, and reaches into the root of the neck. Its highest point is neck, not in the middle line, for there the windpipe, blood-vessels, &c., lie, but is prolonged on each side for one or two inches above the anterior end of the first rib, so that the apex may be said to be bifid, is bifid: Each point projects between the scaleni muscles, and under the how subclavian blood-vessels ; and in the interval between them lie the bounded, several objects passing between the neck and the thorax. Dimensions. The extent of the thoracic cavity does not corre- Exterior sizo spond with the apparent size externally ; for a part of the sjoace in- cavity, eluded by the ribs below is occupied by the abdominal viscera; and the cavity reaches upwards, as just stated, into the neck. In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm, the Depth depth of the space varies greatly at different parts. At the centre, where the depth is least, it measures generally from six to seven inches, but at the back about half as much again ; and the other vertical measurements can be estimated by means of the data given of the level of the base on the wall of the thorax. Alterations in capacity. The size of the thoracic cavity is con- size is stantly varying during life with the condition of the ribs and dia- ^f^^p*^ phragm in breathing. The horizontal measurements are increased in inspiration, when transverseiy the ril^s are raised and separated from one another, and are dimi- i^^nts of nished in expiration as the ribs approach and the sternum sinks. I'i^s; An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the diaphragm in depth by in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is taken into the "^'^P'^^^siii- lungs, thus increasing the cavity ; and it ascends when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or to diminish it in violent efforts. But the movement of the but un- ^ ' equally. * This is the height in the dead body. The level to which it may reach in great respiratory efforts during life will be stated with the account of the Diaphragm (p. 531). vanes: before; behind; on sides.338 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. diaphragm is not equal tlirouglioiit, and some parts of the cavity will be increased more than others. For instance, the central ten- dinous piece, which is joined to the heart-case, moves but slightly ; but the lateral, bulging parts descend freely, and increase greatly the capacity of each half of the chest below by their separation from the thoracic parietes. Thorax The thoracic cavity may be diminished by the diaphragm being how. ^' pushed upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the abdomen ; or by the existence of fluid in the latter (;avity. THE PLEURiE. Sac of the The pleura3 are two serous meml^ranes, or closed sacs, which are pleura: reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the thorax. One occu- pies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity ; they ap- 23roach each other along the middle of the chest, f(Uining a thoracic partition or mediastiiuim. form; Each pleura is conical in shape ; its apex projects into the neck above the hrst rib (fig. 112); and its base is in contact with the dia- outer sur- pli^i^gm- TliG outer surface is rough, and is connected to the lung face; and the wall of the thorax by areolar tissue ; but the inner surface face^ is smooth and free. Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior disposition ^^^^ ^^'"^^^ ^^^^ chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal ])art—costal pleura, and of a visceral part—pulmonary pleura. Difference ill There are some diflerences in the shape and extent of the two sac of right, _ r\ i • i • i i • • ^ pJeural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than and of left Oil tlie left ; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to that side. The con- The continuity of the bag of the pleura may be traced horizontally h"re traced from a given point, over the lung and the wall, back to the same spot in the following manner:—Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it lines the wall of the chest from wall of as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root lung: ^ of the lung, and is then reflected over the viscus, covering its surface, and extending into the fissures between the lobes. From the front of the root the pleura may be followed over the side of the pericar- dium to the sternum. Below the root the pleura forms a thin fold, the ligamentuni latum imlmonis, w^hich unites the inner surface of the lung to the side of the pericardium, in upper If the serous sac be traced above the root of tlie lung, it describes rent. two distinct circles, one lining the chest-wall, and the other surround- ing the lung. Along The mediastinum. The median thoracic partition, or mediastinum, sacl*^form a formed by the inner portion of the parietal pleura on each side, septum. and the structures interposed between the two membranes. It extends the whole depth of the thorax, and reaches from the spine to the sternum, thus separating the right and left pleural cavities. In the centre the two layers of serous membrane are widely separated l)y the heart; but in front and behind the}^ come nearer339 THE MEDIASTINUM. together. The partition is artificially divided into four parts, which are distinguished as the superior, anterior, middle, and posterior mediastina. The superior mcdiastimtm is the portion of the septum above the Superior pericardium, and may be defined as bounded below by a plane thmm^:^ extending; from the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal boundaries, vertebra to the junction of the manubrium and body of the sternum. It is limited in front by the manubrium with the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and behind by the upper four dorsal vertebrae and the lower ends of the longi colli muscles. Between the pleura3 in this part there are found, proceeding from and before backwards, the following objects,—the remains of the thymus contents, gland, several lymphatic glands, the innominate veins and the upper half of the superior cava, the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, the arch of the aorta with its three large branches, innominate, left carotid and left subclavian, the trachea, oesophagus and thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The anterior mediastinum, is the part in front of the jDericardium, '^^^^^'^^V and is very narrow in its upper half, since the two pleurae meet num is the behind the sternum from the level of the second to the fourth smallest: costal cartilages. Below the latter spot the left pleura inclines away irom the middle line, and is separated from its fellow by an interval in which the pericardium comes into contact with the sternum and the left triangularis sterni muscle. The anterior mediastinum contents, contains only sohie areolar tissue with a few small lymphatic glands. In some bodies the left pleura is continued behind the sternum nearly as far as the diajDhragm. The middle mediastinum is the largest part of the septum, and Middle me- includes the pericardium with the contained heart and great vessels, contents, viz., the ascending aorta, the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and the lower half of the superior vena cava ; also the phrenic nerves, the roots of the lungs with the bronchial lymphatic glands, and on the right side the arch of the azygos vein. The posterior mediastinum is the portion between the pericardium Posterior and the spine ; and the interpleural space is here larger than in ifn^niT front of the heart. Its extent and contents will be shewn by dividing the jDleura on the right side behind the root of the lung, boundaries, Enclosed between the serous layers of the posterior mediastinum and con- are the descending thoracic aorta, the azygos veins, the oesophagus with the pneumo-gastric nerves, and the tlioracic duct, as well as a set of lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned from clean peri- ,^ . T p . 1 . T cardium and the Side oi the pericardium. The root of the luno- is to be dissected out by taking away the the root of pleura and the areolar tissue from the front and back, without in- juring its component vessels. In this dissection the phrenic nerve Trace the and artery will be found in front of the root, together with a few ''^'"'''^^ small anterior pulmonary nerves ; the last are best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the vagus nerve, dividing into branches ; and arching above the right one is the large azygos vein. ^"•1/'^^°''^ z 2DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 340 Thymus body in foetus : and extent. Remains adult. For the present, tlie arcli of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched. The THYMUS GLAND is an organ which is most developed in the infant, and the use of which is not understood. It is placed mainly in the upper part of the thorax ; and it may be best examined in a full-grown fcetus. At birth it is about two inches in length, and of a greyish colour. It consists of two lobes of a conical form, which touch each other. Its upper end is pointed, and extends on the trachea as high as the thyroid body ; and the lower wider part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and large branches, on the left innominate vein, and on the pericardium. In the adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather firm material in the interpleural space behind the upper end of the sternum ; and after middle life it has generally disappeared altogether. RELATIONS OF THE LUNGS. Number The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavity of and use. the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. Form Each lung is of a somewhat conical form, and takes its shape from the space in which it is lodged. It is unattached, except at the inner side where the vessels enter forming the root ; and it is and parts, covered by the bag of the pleura. It has a base and apex, two borders and two surfaces ; and one or two fissures divide it into lobes. Ease The base of the lung is hollowed in the centre and thin at the diaphragm: circumference, fitting the convexity of the diaphragm. Foliow- shape and ing the shape of that muscle, it is sloped obliquely from before level. backwards, and reaches in consequence much lower behind than in front. Its position with respect to the wall of the thorax may be indicated by a line drawn from the sixth chondro-sternal articulation to the tenth dorsal spine ; but it will be slightly lower in front on Apex is in the left, than on the right side (fig. 112). The apex is rounded, the neck. projects from one to two inches above the anterior end of the first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery. Anterior Th^ anterior border is thin, and overlies in part the peri- edge IS thm: cardium. On the right side it lies along the middle of the sternum ^Sir"""" '-^^^^ cartilage (fig. 112). On the left side it and left reaches the mid-line of the chest as low as the fourth costal carti- lage ; but below that spot it presents a V-shaped notch the apex of which is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib. Posterior The posterior border is half as long again as the anterior, and pro- thfcV.^ jects inferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column.341 EELATIONS OF LUNGS. The outer surface of the lung is convex, and is in contact with External the wall of the thorax : a large cleft divides it into two parts, and on the right side there is a second smaller fissure. The inner sur- internal face is flat when compared with the outer : at the fore part is a ^'^^^'^ce large hollow which lodges the heart and great vessels, and is most marked on the left lung ; and behind this is a fissure about three gives attach- ment to the root. Fig. 112.* t inches long, hilum piilmonis, which receives the vessels of the root of the lung. Each lung is divided into two lobes by an oblique fissure, which Division begins at the posterior border near the apex, and ends at the fore ^^^^ part of the base ; and the lower lobe is larger than the upper. J^^^^ In the right lung a second horizontal fissure is directed forwards and'the from the middle of the oblique one to the anterior border, and cuts right ofi" a small triangular piece from the upper lobe : this is the third ^^^^^ ^"^^^ or middle lobe. Occasionally there may be a trace of the third lobe in the left lung. Besides the difference in the number of the lobes, the right lung Difference is larger and heavier, and is wider and more hollowed out at the s?ze°of the"* base, as well as being somewhat shorter than the left. The increased lungs, length and the narrowness of the left lung are due to the absence of a large projecting body like the liver below it, and to the direction of the heart to the left side. : * Diagram to show the difference in the anterior border of the right and left lung, the edge being indicated by the dark line ; and to mark the different level of the base on the two sides.DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 342 Root of the luug: situation : relations. Consti- tuents of the root; their rela- tive posi- tions. The root of the lung consists of the vessels entering the fissure on the inner surface ; and as these are bound together by the pleura and some areolar tissue they form a stalk, which attaches the lung to the heart and the windpipe. The root is situate at the inner surface, about midway between the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth from the posterior border of the lung. In front of the root on both sides are the phrenic and the anterior pulmonary nerves, the former being some little distance from it; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind on both sides is the posterior pulmonary plexus; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above, on the right side, is the azygos vein ; and on the left side, the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called ligamentum latum pulmonis. In the root of the lung are collected a branch of the pulmonary artery, two pulmonary veins, and a division of the airtube (bronchus); small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. The large vessels and the airtube have the following- positions to one another :— On both sides the bronchus is behind, the pulmonary veins in front, and the pulmonary artery in the middle. In the direction from above down the position on the right side is bronchus, pul- monary arteryj and pulmonary veins ; but on the left side the bronchus and artery change places, and the order is artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides is accounted for by the bronchus of the right side giving off its branch to the upper lobe of the lung before it is crossed by the artery ; while on the left side there is no corresponding branch of the airtube, and the artery crosses the undivided bronchial stem. THE PERICARDIUM. Pericar- dium. Clean ves- sels of heart. First aorta. then inno- minate veins and branches, and upper cava. The bag containing the heart is named the pericardium. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval between the two pleura). Dissection. Supposing the surface of the pericardium to be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the large vessels above the heart, and trace the nerves. The large artery curving to the left above the pericardium is the aorta, which furnishes three trimks to the head and the U23per limbs, viz., from right to left, the innominate, the left common carotid, and left subclavian. On its left side lies the larger pulmonary artery. Above the arch of the aorta a large venous trunk, left innominate, crosses over the three arteries mentioned above, and ends by uniting on the right side with the right innominate vein in the upper cava. Several small veins, which may be mistaken for nerves, ascend over the aorta, and enter this trunk. Define the branches of this vein, and especially one crossing the aortic arch towards the left side, which is the left superior intercostal vein (fig. 119, i). The large vein by the side of the aorta is the upper cava ; and the azygos vein will be found opening into it l)ehind.THE PERICARDIUM. 343 Seek tlie following nerves of the left side, wliicli cross the arch of Seek nerves the aorta :—The largest and deepest is the vagus ; the next largest 3™^!)"^ in size, in front of the vagus, is the phrenic. Between the preced- i^ortsi. ing nerves, and close to the artery, are the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, and the lower cervical cardiac hranch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smaller, and in front of the other. The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and sympathetic are to be Dissect followed to a small plexus (superficial cardiac) in the concavity of pifxuslu^ the aorta. An offset of the plexus is to be traced downwards ^^"^'^ «f between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the right coronary artery of the heart ; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards from the deep cardiac to the superficial jDlexus : this dissection is difficult, and requires care. When the pericardium is afterwards opened the nerves will be followed on the heart. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in injecting the l)ody. The PERiCxVRDiUM is somewhat conical in form, the wider part Peiicai- being turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part extending " upwards beyond the heart on the large vessels. It is placed behind fonif; " the sternum, and projects on each side of that bone, but much moi-e position; t(3wards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie between j.^^iations the two. Its anterior surface is separated from the chest-wall by the pleurae and lungs, except over a small area on the left side corre- sponding to the lower part of the anterior mediastinum (p. 339) ; and behind, in the interval between the pleura), it is in contact with the oesophagus and aorta. The heart-case consists of a fil)rous structure, which is lined Composi- internally by a serous membrane. The fibrous part surrounds the heart, and is pierced by the large Fibi-ouspart vessels joining that organ, with the exception of the inferior cava : |}\g^ths to it gives ]>rolongations around the vessels, and the strongest of these vessels, sheaths is on the aorta. Below, it is united to the central tendon of the diaphragm. This membrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of fibres crossing in different directions, many being longitudinal. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be seen. The serous sac consists of a parietal and a visceral part, which are serous continuous with one another along the great vessels. The parietal {f^^j^o^g"^'^ part lines the fibrous membrane, with, which it is inseparably united, and the included portion of the diaphragm ; while the visceral i^art covers the heart. Where it is reffected around the and covers vessels, it encloses the pulmonary artery and aorta in one sheath ; ^^^^^^ > but the veins are not completely surrounded, their posterior sur- disposition faces being devoid of a serous investment. At the back of the left ^If^^^^. auricle the serous membrane forms a pouch between the pulmonary veins of the two sides. In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer forms a f^i'jf'S'^^DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. small triangular fold, the vestigial fold of the 'pericardium (Marshall), between the pulmonary artery and the upper pulmonary vein : this includes the remains of a left superior cava which existed in the fcetus. The vessels of tlie j)ericardium are derived from the aorta, the internal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. Nerves. According to Luschka the pericardium receives nerves from the phrenic, sympathetic, and right vagus. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular organ by which the blood is propelled through the body. Into it, as the centre of the vascular system, veins enter ; and from it the arteries issue. Form. The heart is conical in form, but somewhat compressed from before backwards. The anterior surface is convex ; and the posterior or lower is nearly flat. The left border is thick and round ; while the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. Bize. The size of the heart varies greatly; and it is usually smaller in the woman than in the man. Its average measurements may be said to be about five inches in length, three inches and a half in Avidth, and two and a half in thickness. Its weight is generally from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female. Position and direction. The heart lies behind the body of the sternum, and projects on each side of that bone, but more to the left than the right. Its axis is directed very obliquely, from behind forwards and to the left, as well as somewhat downwards. The base is towards the spine, being opposite the sixth, seventh and eighth dorsal vertebrae, and looks backwards and upwards. The apex strikes the wall of the chest during life in the fifth intercostal space of the left side, at the junction of the ribs with their cartilages. The anterior surface looks forwards and somewhat upw^arcls ; while the posterior surface is nearly horizontal, resting on the diaphragm. The right margin is turned to the front; and the left is placed farther back. In consequence of the oblique position of the heart, the right half and the apex are directed towards the thoracic wall, though mostly with lung intervening ; while the left half is undermost and deep in the cavity. Limits (fig. 113). The extent of the heart in relation to the front of the chest may be indicated as follows :—The upj)er limit is marked by a line across the sternum from the lower edge of the second costal cartilage of the left side to the upper edge of the third cartilage of the right side ; and the lower limit by a line, slightly convex downwards, from the seventh chondro-sternal articulation of the right side to the spot where the apex touches, the latter point being usually about one inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch to the sternal side of the nipple. On the right side the345 POSITION OF HEART. heart projects about one inch and a half from the middle Hne of the sternum ; and on the left, the apex is distant from three to three and left, and a half inches from the centre of the breast-bone. The portion of the heart which is uncovered by lung (the area of Superficial superficial cardiac dulness) is included between the middle line of ^eSt^ the sternum, in its lower third, and a line drawn from the centre Fig. 113. of the breast-bone between the fourth costal cartilages to the apex of the heart (%. 113). Component parts. The heart is a double organ ; and in each half Chambers of there are two chambers, an auricle and a ventricle, which com- municate together, and are provided with vessels for the entrance and exit of the blood. The surface is marked by grooves indicating Grooves: this division. Thus, passing circularly round the heart, nearer the auricuio- base than the apex, is a groove which cuts off the thin auricular ventncuiai', from the fleshy ventricular part ; and on each surface there is a and inter- longitudinal sulcus over the partition between the ventricles. The ventricular, interventricular groove is nearer the left border of the heart in front, and the right border behind. The auricles are two, right and left, and their wall is much Auricles: thinner than that of the ventricles. They are placed deeply at the position, base of the heart ; and each is prolonged forwards into a small * Diagram shewing the position of the heart to the ribs and sternum, the soft parts being removed from the exterior of the thorax. The edge of each luns is shown by a dotted Hne. The left auricle extends somewhat higher than the area indicated in the figure, projecting into the second intercostal space.DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. tapering part known as the auricular ajjpendix or auricle proper, so-called from its resemblance to a dog's ear. The ventricles reach unequal distances on the two aspects of the heart ;—thus the right one forms the thin right border and most of the anterior surface ; l)ut the left enters alone into the apex, and constructs the left border, and the greater part of the posterior sur- face of the heart. Dissection. Before opening the heart, the coronary arteries are to be dissected on the surface, with the veins and small nerves that accompany them. The two arteries appear on the sides of the pulmonary artery, and run in the grooves on the surface of the heart, where they are surrounded by fat: one branches over the right, and the other over the left side. With each artery is a plexus of nerves, and that of the right side is to be followed upwards to the superficial cardiac plexus. In the groove between the left auricle and ventricle the student will find the large coronary vein, passing at the back into the dilated coronary sinus : the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. The CORONARY ARTERIES are the first branches of the aorta, and supply the heart, one being distributed mainly on the right side, and the other on the left. The right artery appears on the right side of the pulmonary trunk, and is directed backwards in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, giving branches upwards and downwards. Two of these are larger than the rest ; one runs on the anterior surface of the right ventricle near the free margin ; and the other descends in the posterior interventricular furrow to the apex of the heart. A small branch is continued to the left side of the heart, lying in the hinder part of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. The left artery passes outwards behind the pulmonary trunk to the left side of that vessel, where it divides into two branches. Of these, the anterior is the larger, and descends on the front of the heart in the groove between the two ventricles to the apex; while the j)osterior runs backwards between the left auricle and ventricle. The branches of the two coronary arteries communicate on the surface of the heart, but their anastomoses are very fine. The VEINS OF THE HEART (fig. 114) diff'cr in their arrangement from the arteries, and are for the most part collected into one large trunk—the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus will be. seen on raising the heart to be placed in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle. About an inch usually in length, it is joined at the one end by the great cardiac vein (^) ; and at the other it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Interiorly and at its right end it receives some branches from the back of the ventricles (+), and at its left extremity another small vein (^), the ohlique vein (Marshall), which descends to it along the back of the left auricle. On slitting up the sinus with the scissors the openings of itsVEINS OF THE IIEAKT. 347 diliereiit veins will be seen to be guarded by valves, witli the exception of the oblique vein; and at its right end is the Thebesian valve of the right auricle. The left coronary or fjreat cardiac vein, beginning in front near Large coro- the apex of the heart, first ascends in the interventricular groove, and then turns to the Ijack in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, to open into the coronary sinus ("'). It receives branches, mainly from the left side of the heart, in its course; and its ending in the sinns is marked by a double valve. The right coronary vein (^) is of small size, and runs in the hinder part of the right auriculo - ventricular groove to the right end of the coro- nary sinus. The jposterior cardiac veins (ft) ascend on the back of the left ventricle to the coro- nary sinus ; and one larger vessel, the middle cardiac vein, lies in the posterior in- terventricular furrow. The anterior cardiac veins are three or four in number, and run upwards on the front of the right ventricle to open separately into the lower part of the right auricle. Smallest cardiac veins. Other small veins lie in the substance of Smallest the heart, and are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac nerves. The nerves for the supply of the heart are Nerves of derived from a large plexus (cardiac) beneath the arch of the aorta, from which offsets proceed to accompany the coronary arteries. The greater part of this plexus is deeply placed, and will be dissected at a later stage, but a superficial prolongation may now be seen. The snperjicial cardiac plexus is placed below the arch of the aorta, superficial to the right of the ductus arteriosus. The nerves joining it are the plexus left superficial cardiac of the sym]3athetic, the lower cervical cardiac of the left vagus (p. 364), and a considerable bundle from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion is sometimes seen in the plexus. Inferiorly it sends off nerves along the right coronary artery to the ends in heart. A few filaments run on the left division of the pulmonary J^'f^y. artery to the left lung. * Back of the heart with its veins and the coronarj^ sinus. (Marshall.) A. Right auricle, b. Left auricle, with the appendix, c. 1. Coronary sinus. 2. Oblique vein. 3. Right coronary vein. 4. Left or great coronai-y vein. +tPos- terior cardiac veins; the larger one on the right is the middle cardiac vein.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. The right coronary nerves pass from ths superficial plexus to the right coronary artery, and receive near the heart a communicating offset from the deep cardiac plexus. The left coronary nerves are derived, as will be subsequently seen, from the deep cardiac plexus, and follow the left coronary artery. At first the nerves surround the arteries, but they soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. The CAVITIES OF THE HEART may be examined in the order in which the current of the blood passes through them, viz., right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ventricle. Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to be removed from the body. To open the right auricle, an incision should be made in it near the right or free border, extending from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; and from the centre of this cut the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the appendix. By this means an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the cavity may be examined. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT AURICLE (fig. 115) is of an irregular form,* though when seen from the right side, with the flaps held up, it has somewhat the appearance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex to the left. The widened part or base of the cavity is turned towards the right side, and at its extremities are the 023enings of the superior and inferior cavee. Between those vessels the wall projects a little, and in some bodies presents a slight elevation (tubercle of Lower). The apex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Near the top is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix Qi), which will admit the tip of the little finger. Near, and in the interior of the appendix are prominent fleshy bands, named musculi pectinati, which run mostly in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior wall corresponds mostly with the septum between the auricles, in consequence of the position of the heart (p. 344). On it, close to the inferior cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis [d), which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the foetus : inferiorly it merges into the lower cava. A thin semitransparent structure forms the bottom of the fossa ; and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture into the left auricle at its upper part. Around the upper three-fourths of the fossa is an elevated band of muscular fibres, called annulus ovalis or isthmus * The term cavity of the auricle is sometimes confined to the part in the appendix, and the name atrium or sinus venosus is then given to the rest of the space here named auricle.349 RIGHT AURICLE OF HEART. Fig. 115. Vieussenii, which is most prominent above and on the left side, and gradually subsides below. Altogether at the lower end of the posterior wall is the aperture of the coronary sinus {e). Other small apertures, nom^di foramina of Thebesius, are scattered over this surface ; some lead only into depressions; but others are the mouths of veins of the substance of the heart (smallest cardiac veins ; p. 347). The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cava?, coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava (a) is at the top of the auricle, and looks slightly forwards. The inferior cava (b) enters the lowest part of the cavity at the back, close to the septum, and is directed inwards to the fossa ovalis (d). The au- riculo-ventricular open- ing (c) is the largest of all, and is situate at the lower and fore part of the cavity. Between this and the septum is placed the opening of the coronary sinus (e). All the large vessels, except the superior cava, have some kind of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin fold of the lining membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian valve, which is only a remnant of a much larger structure in the foetus. This fold is semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. The valve is wider than the vein opening ; and its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards : it is often cribriform. The aperture of the coronary sinus is covered by a thin fold of the lining membrane—the valve of Thebesius. The auriculo-ventricular opening will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with a valve, which prevents the blood liowing back into the auricle. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle towards the ventricle. But in the foetus there are two streams in * Diagram of the two cavities of the right side of the heart, a. Upper cava. b. Lower cava. c. Right auriculo-ventricular opening, d. Fossa ovalis. e. Opening of the coronary sinus. /. Foramina Thebesii. g. Pulmonary artery, h. Auricular appendix. Annulus of Vieussens. Apertures of sinus and smallest A'eins. of coronary sinus. Valves of chief aper- tures : inferior cava has Eustachian valve: one to coro- nary sinus, and one to auriculo- ventricular opening. Course ol blood in auricle in adult,DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 350 and in tlie foetus. To open right ventricle. Cavity of right ventricle. Apex. Base and its openings. Anterior and posterior wall. Interioi- of the cavity is uneven : on it there are three sets of fleshy columns. Opening from the a.uricle: position, form and size; is guarded by the tri- cuspid valve. the cavity ; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one another in early life, but become more commingled as birth aj)proaches. The placental or pure blood, entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, through the foramen ovale in the septum ; while the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, ilows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of the right ventricle, the student should pierce it with the scalpel below the opening from the auricle, and cut out below near tlie apex of the heart without injuring the ventricular septum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the anterior wall of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks or string, so that the sjDace may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 115) is triangular in form, with the base turned towards the auricle of the same side. On a cross section it would appear semilunar in shape, the septum between the ventricles l^eing convex towards the cavity. The a/pex, of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at a short distance from the tip. The hase of the ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures; one of these, to the right and below, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening (c) ; the other, on the left and much higher, is the mouth of the pulmonary artery (^). The part of the cavity leading up to the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named irtfmuUhulurji or C071US arteriosus. The anterior n:aU^ or the loose part of the ventricle, is compara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The loosterior ivall corresponds with the septum between the ventricles, and is much thicker. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is marked by pro- jecting muscular bands, the columnar, carnece; but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three clifl'erent kinds. Some form merely a prominence in the ventricle, especially on the septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the middle {trahecula' carnece). And a third set, which are fewer in number and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi painllares; these give attachment by their free ends to the little tendinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The auriculo-ventricular orifice (c) is situate in the base of the ventricle, and behind the right half of the sternum, on a level with the fourth intercostal space. It is oval in shape, and measures about four inches in circumference, being slightly larger than the corresponding aperture of the left side. Fixed around the opening is a large membranous valve, which projects into the cavity of the A^entricle. At its attached margin the valve is undivided : but its lower part is notched, so as to formRIGHT VENTRICLE OF HEART. 351 three iDeiident cusps or tongues, whence the name tricuspid is given to it. Into the cusps are inserted small fibrous bands—the chordae tendinese, which unite them to the muscular wall of the A^entricle. The three cusps are thus placed;—one {rigid) is against the anterior the cusps wall of the ventricle ; another {idosterior) touches the septum ; and rfo-ht"^os^'^ the third (left or infundibular)^ the largest and most moveable, is terioraiui placed between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the infundi- buluni. The tricuspid valve consists of a duplicature of the lining mem- structure nt brane of the heart, enclosing fibrous tissue. The central part of^^^'^' each tongue is strong, while the edges are thin and notched ; and between the main pieces there are often thinner intermediate points. The chordce te7ulinece, which keep the valve in place, ascend from attaciinicnt the musculi papillares in the intervals between the cusps, and are J:*oni "-''" ""'^ connected in each space with the two pieces of the valve bounding it."^ They end on the surface of the cusps turned away from the opening, a few reaching the attached upper margin ; but the greater number join the central thickened part, and the thin edge and point of the tongue. As the blood enters the cavity the valve is raised so as to close its use. the opening into the auricle ; and its protrusion into the latter cavity during the contraction of the ventricle is arrested by the small tendinous cords. The closure of this valve assists in producing the first sound of the heart. The mouth of the 'pulmonarij artery (g) will be seen when the Puinioiuuy incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged into it. The opening is circular, with a diameter of about an inch. It size au«i occupies the summit of the funnel-shaped portion of the ventricle, P^*''*^'""' and is placed opposite the upper edge of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to its junction with the sternum. Pulmonary valve. Guarding the orifice of the pulmonary artery ^ji'^^^^^j^^p*^*. is a valve consisting of three semilunar or sigmoid flaps. Each flap is attached to the side of the vessel by its convex border, and is free at the opposite edge, in the centre of which there is a slightly thickened nodule—the corpus Arantii. In the wall of the artery diiatatiou of opposite each flap is a slight hollow—the sinus of Valsalva. artery. This valve resembles the tricuspid in structure, being formed of fibrous tissue with a covering of the lining membrane. In each flap the fibres have this arrangement : there is one band along the attached margin ; a second runs along the free edge, and is con- nected with the projecting nodule ; and a third set of fibres is directed from the nodule across the flap, so as to leave a semilunar interval named lunula on each side near the free edge. The use of the valve is obvious, viz., to give free passage to fluid -"^'^'^ in one direction, and to prevent its return. While the blood is entering the artery the flaps are separated ; but when the elasticity * The papillary muscles are collected into two principal groups, an anterior sending its tendons to the right and left cusps, and a posterior, to the right and posterior cusps. In the interval between the left and posterior segments of the valve the tendinous cords are small, and spring from the septum.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 362 To open left auricle. Fig. 116*. Form of cavity of left auricle Openings: four pulmo- nary veins, and to ventricle. Valves. of the vessel acts on the contained blood they are thrown together in the centre of the vessel, and arrest the flow of the fluid into the ventricle. They are concerned in giving rise to the second sound of the heart. Dissection. To open the cavity of the left auricle, the apex of the heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made across the posterior surface of the auricle from the right to the left pulmonary veins. Another short incision should be made downwards at right angles to the first. The heart must neces- sarily be held up during the exami- nation of the cavity. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT AURICLE (fig. 116) is smaller than that of the right side, and is rather oblong in shape, with its longest diameter di- rected transversely. It is joined at each end by the two pulmonary veins of that side: and at the lower and fore part it opens into the left ven- tricle. In the front wall, at the left ex- tremity, is the opening of the appendix (m), which is longer and narrower than the corresponding part on the right side. Musculi pectinati are also present, but on this side they are usually confined to the appendix. To the right of the opening into the appendix, on the part of the wall formed by the septum, is a superficial fossa (fig. 116, o), the remains of the oval apetture through that partition ; this is bounded below by a projecting margin, concave upwards, which is the edge of the valve that closed the opening in the foetus. This impression in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis in the right cavity, because the aperture between the two in the foetus was an oblique canal through the septum. The apertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmonary veins, and the opening into the left ventricle. The mouths of each pair of pulmonary veins are close together ; those from the right lung (i) open into the extreme right of the auricle against the sep- tum, and those from the left lung (k) enter the opposite side of the cavity, near the appendix. The pulmonary veins have no valves. The aperture into the ventricle (Z) will be subsequently seen to have a large and com- plicated valve to guard it, as on the right side. * Diagram of the two cavities of tlie left side of the heart, i. Right jjulmonary veins. A-. Left pulmonary veins. I. Left auric ulo-ventricular opening, m. Auricular appendix, n. Aorta, o. Remains of the foramen ovale.353 LEFT VENTEICLE OF HEART. in ftt'tus. How to In the adult tlie blood enters this cavity from tlie lungs by the current of pulmonary veins, and flows into the left ventricle by the large oj^ening between the two. In the foetus only a very small quantity of blood passes through the lungs ; and the left auricle receives its l)ure blood at once from the right auricle through the aj^erture in the septum (foramen ovale). Dissection. The left ventricle may be opened by an incision along both the anterior and the posterior surfaces, near the septum; these ventricle, are to be joined at the apex, but are not to be extended upwards so as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the cavity will be visible. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE (fig. 116) is longer and more Jl'g^^JjgjJ'^^* conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle ; and is oval, or almost circular, on a transverse section. The ai^ex of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The base Apex, is turned towards the auricle ; and. in it are the openings into the Base with aorta {n) and the left auricle (/). openings. The wall of this ventricle is thicker than that of the right, and A\'aii. the anterior boundary is formed for the most part by the septum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- inner sur- secpience of the projection of the columnar carne£e ; but near the fle^hy''^'' aorta the surface is smoother. There are three sets. of fleshy coinmns, columns in this as in the right ventricle ; and the mnsciili papil- and some lares, which give attachment to the tendinous cords of the vah^e, ^^^J' ^^rgc- are strongly marked : these are arranged in two large bundles, which spring from the right and left sides of the cavit}". The left auriculo-ventricular opening is ]3laced beneath tlie orifice Left auri- of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous band intervening pu|ai'?ap^^^ l)etween the two. It is rather smaller than the corresponding ture: aperture of the right side, being about three inches and a half in form and circumference, and is longest in tlie transverse direction. The centre ' of the opening corresponds to the junction of the fourth costal position, cartilage of the" left side with the sternum. It is furnished with a membranous valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- Mitral cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords ; it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring round the aperture, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its segments lie one before the other, with their segments; edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior. Tlie mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and ofiice. structure; Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two primary segments. The chorda3 tendinese ascend to be attached to the valve attaoiiment in the notches between the tongues ; and they end on the segments " ^' in tlie same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both portions of the valve.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 354 Aortic open- ing : position ; valve. Sinuses of Valsalva. Use. Position o apertures of arteries, and of auricles. Structure of the heart. Directions. Fibrous bands form rings around auii culo-ventri- cular and arterial openings. While the blood is entering the cavity, the cusps of the valve are separated ; and when the ventricle contracts, they meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in producing the first sound of the heart. The opening of the aorta^ anterior to that of the auricle, is close to the septum. This aperture is round, and rather smaller than that of the pulmonary artery, measuring slightly less than an inch in diameter. It is situate behind the left half of the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage. In its interior is a valve of three semilunar or sigmoid flaps, which are thicker and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pul- monary artery, but have a like structure and attachment. The projection in the centre of each valve, the corpus Arantii, is better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as in the pulmonary artery, though in a greater degree, and forms a hollow on the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The apertures of the coronary arteries are placed in two of these sinuses. Like the valves in the pulmonary artery, these meet in the middle to prevent the blood jDassing back into the ventricle, and combine with them in causing the second sound of the heart. Position of the ventricidaT apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle,—one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta and pulmonary) are nearest the septum ; and as the two vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together ; but of the two, the pulmonary artery is anterior and more to the left, as well as somewhat higher. The aperture of communication with each auricle is nearer the circumference of the heart, and is j)Osterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of the ventricle. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is nearest of all to the back of the heart. Structure. The heart is composed chiefly of muscular tilDres, together with certain fibrous rings and a fibro-cartilage. The structure may be studied in the heart of the sheep or ox, in which the muscular substance has been hardened, and the connective tissue destroyed, by boiling, so as to allow of the fibres being sepa- rated. The description of the structure of the heart may be omitted by the student till a suitable preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous structure forms rings around the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected with these openings. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral valves ; and the band surrounding the left auriculo-ventricular opening is blended in front Avith the aortic ring. The arterial rings surround the aortic and pulmonary orifices ; and the margin of each towards the artery forms three notches with intervening projections. The notches are occupied by thinner parts of the arterial w\all bounding the sinuses of Valsalva ; and to the concave edges the sigmoid flaps of the valve are attached.355 AUEICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. Behind the aortic opening, between it and the anricnlo-ventricular Fibro-carti- apertures, is a piece of jihro-cartilage, with which the fibrous rings are united. The muscular fibres of the heart, although involuntary, striped; but they differ in their character from those voluntary muscles. The fibres of the auricles are distinct from those of the ventricles. In the luall of the auricles the fibres are mostly transverse (fig. Fibres of 117, a, b), and are best marked near the ventricles, though they form there but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular are Muscular the auricles Fig. 117. and looped. cavities. Besides this set, there are annular fibres surrounding the appendages of the auricles and the endings of the diff'erent veins ; and lastly, a few looped fibres (c, d) pass obliquely over the auricle from front to back. Dissection. The auricles hav- ing been learnt, separate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-ventricular rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by re- moving all the fat from the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pulmo- nary), and from the anterior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart, let the student note that the anterior surface- is to be recognised by the fibres turning in at the septum, with the exception of a small band at the base and another at the apex; while on the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. To shew the direction of the muscular bundles in the left ventricle, Dissection divide the superficial fibres in front longitudinally near the septum, ^^-^^^ and transversely about half an inch below the left auriculo-ventri- cular opening ; and reflect a thin layer of the fibres carefully towards the left side. In the same way a second layer is to be reflected ; then a third, and so on, each lajei that is raised being about as thick as the thin end of the scalpel. It will not be difficult to demonstrate thus six or seven layers in the wall; and as each is raised, the fleshy fibres will be seen to change their direction (fig. 118). On the right side a similar dissection may be made, and a like and of number of layers may be displayed, but greater care will be necessary * Muscular fibres of the auricles, a. Transverse fibres of the right, and b, of the left auricle, c. Looped fibres of the left, and d, of the right auricle. e. Superior cava, /. Inferior cava. (/. Right, and A, left pulmonary veins. Annular fibres surround the veins.356 DISSECTION OF THE THOIIAX. Thickness of left ven- tricle, of riglit, and of se,)tum : Fibres can be separated into layers by dissec- tion. Direction of fibres: external, middle, and internal. Course of libres is obscure. owing to the thinness of the walL Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle ; and reflect the several layers inwards and outward.^. As the superficial ones are raised, their fibres may be followed into the septum in front, and across the middle line into the wall of the left ventricle at the back. Thickness of ventricular ivalls. The Avail of the left ventricle is in general nearly three times as thick as that of the right. Its thickest part is about one-fourth of its length from the base ; and at the apex it is very thin. The free wall of the right ventricle is of more imi- form thickness than the left. The septum is about as thick as the wall of the left ventricle, except at the upper end, in a small area close below the aortic orifice, Fig. 118.* where there is a very thin part from which muscular fibres are absent {pars menihranacea septi). Arrangement of fibres. It lias been shewn by the fore- going dissection that the di- rection of the muscular fasci- culi composing the ventricular wall varies at dilFerent depths from the surface, and that at a given spot a number of layers may be separated, which are characterized by the diff'erence in direction of their fibres. Such a division into distinct layers is how- ever in great measure artifi- cial, for the change in direc- tion is gradual, and many fibres jDass across from one layer to another, and have to be cut to effect the separation. Over both ventricles the most superficial fibres are directed very obliquely from base to apex, and from right to left on the anterior surface, from left to right on the posterior surface. Proceeding- inwards, the obliquity gradually diminishes ; and in the centre of the wall the fibres are transverse. Within the last, as the cavity of the ventricle is approached, the fibres become oblique again, but in the opposite direction to the external ones ; and the innermost fibres of all are nearly longitudinal. The attempt to trace the whole course of the bundles is, except in the case of the superficial fibres, attended with great difficulty, owing to the interlacement, branching, and joining of the fasciculi. * A diagram of tlie arrangement of the fibres in layers in the left ventricle. The dissection is carried through about two-thirds of the thickness of the wall. 1, 2, 3. Outer layers, the fibres of which gradually become less oblique. 4. Middle layer of transverse fibres. 5. Inner set of oblique fibres. The deej^est fibres, corresponding to 1 and 2 of the exterior, are not shewn. V357 VENTRICULAll FIBRES OF HEART. The principal groups of fibres that have been distinguished may be chief sets: arranged as follows ; but it must be understood tliat they are to a great extent intermixed, and that bundles frequently pass from one set into another. a. The external oblique fibres (fig, 118,^) begin at the base of ^^temal the ventricles, Avhere most of them spring from the auriculo-ventri- '^^^^^'^^ cular and arterial fibrous rings, and descend with the spiral course above described to the apex of the heart. On the posterior surface they pass without interruption from, the left to the right ventricle ; but in front the fibres crossing the right ventricle in part dip in at the interventricular groove to the septum, while those continued to the left ventricle are joined by others which issue from the septum along the furrow. At the apex of the heart they form a sharp twist, known as the vortej; or wJiorl, and sink in to become deep and ascend towards the base as the innermost layer of the left ventricle, and internal Some of them are continued to the base and join the auriculo-ventri- longitudinal cirG one' cular and aortic rings ; but others enter the papillary muscles, which are thus formed. b. The transverse or annular fibres (fig, 118,'') are partly special annular; to the left ventricle, and partly common to the two ventricles. Some of them appear to form simple rings round the cavities, but a gieat many pass from this into the oblique system of fibres. c. The looped fibres of the left ventricle spring from the fibrous looped of rings at the base, and passing downwards in the ventricular wall, enter the lower part of the septum, in which they ascend to the central fibro-cartilage. d. Similar looped fibres pass from the outer wall of the right and of right ventricle through the septum to the fibro-cartilage. ventricle ; e. The fioure-of-8 fibres i^ass from the front of the right ventricle figure-of-s libres through the septum to the back of the left, and from the front of the left to the back of the right, the two sets decussating in the septum. Endocardium. LiniuLj the interior of the cavities of the heart IS a Lining thin membrane, which is named endocardium. It is continuous on of*^}^^e^hpart. the one hand with the lining of the veins, and on the other with that of the arteries. Where the membrane passes from an auricle' to a ventricle, or from a ventricle to an artery, it forms duplicatures in which fibrous tissue is enclosed, thus giving rise to the valves ; and in tlie ventricles it covers the tendinous cords, and the project- ing muscular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is greater in the auricles than in the A'Cntricles, and in the left than in the right half of the heart. Great Vessels, Tlie arteries which take origin from the heart 7*?*^?^^^ ^j^^ are the aorta and the pulmonary trunk. The large veins entering 'j[*eart!^ the heart, besides the coronary sinus, are the superior and inferior cava3, and the pulmonary. The PULMONARY ARTERY is a short thick trunk, which conveys The pulmo- the dark blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From "^''^ ^""^^'^ its commencement in the right ventricle the vessel is directed up- wards and backwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of '^^^ an inch and a half or two inches, it divides into two branches for lungs.DISSECTIO]^ OF THE THORAX. 358 Relations. Right branch. Left branch. Space at the bifurcation. Ligament of arterial dviet. Arterial duct in foetus : course of the blood. The aorta extends through chest and abdomen. the lungs. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the pericardium ; and beneath its lower end is the beginning of the aorta. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricular appendix. The right branch, is longer and somewhat larger than the left. In its course to the lung it passes outwards above the right auricle of the heart, and beneath the aorta and superior vena cava. Behind it is the right bronchus. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe. The left branch is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fissure of the lung, where it ends in two branches for the two pulmonic lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery pass out- wards, they cross the two bronchi diverging from the end of the trachea, and enclose with them a lozenge-shaped space which con- tains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. Near the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery a fibrous cord, about the size of a crow-quill, passes from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta. This is the remnant of the ductus arteriosus of the foetus, and is named the ligament of the arterial duct. In the foetus the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery are small, and the trunk is continued by the ductus arteriosus, which ojDens into the aorta beyond the origin of the last great branch (subclavian) of the arch. The impure blood then passes from the pulmonary artery mainly through the arterial duct into the aorta, below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be j)nrified. But after birth, when the function of the lungs is established, the current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary artery instead of through the arterial duct and this tube becoming gradually smaller, is occluded by the eighth or tenth day, and forms finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The Aorta is the great systemic vessel which conveys the arterial blood from the heart to the difierent parts of the body. It first ascends for a short distance, and then arches backwards to reach the spinal column, along which it is continued downwards through the chest and abdomen. In the thorax the vessel is divided into three parts—the ascending aorta, the arch of the aorta, and the descend- ino- thoracic aorta.'" The arch of the aorta has been usually described in English textboolss as extending from the left ventricle of the heart to the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra, and divided into ascending, transverse, and descending portions. But the ascending (or intrapericardial) portion differs so much in relations and development from the rest of the vessel as to justify its separa- tion as a primary division of the aorta. The designation "transverse" is very inappropriate for the arched portion of the trunk, which is directed mainly from before backwards ; and the third part of the arch as formerly defined is in no way marked off from the descending thoracic aorta, with which it is therefore here incorporated. The division now adopted has long been in use among Glerman anatomical writers.359 ARCH OF THE AORTA. Ascending aorta: and relations. The ASCENDING AORTA Springs from the left ventricle of the heart behind the left half of the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage. About two inches, or a libtle more, in length, length, it is directed upwards, with a slight inclination to the right and forwards, and reaches to the inner end of the cartilage of the extent, second rib on the right side. It is contained nearly altogether in the pericardium, being surrounded by the same sheath of the serous memljrane as the pulmonary trunk, which is at first superficial to it, l)ut afterwards lies on its left side. Between the ascending aorta and the sternum are the anterior edge of the right lung, with the pleura, and some fatty tissue. Behind it are the left auricle of the heart and the right branch of the pulmonary artery. On the right side is the descending cava. Near the heart the vessel bulges oppo- site the flaps of the valve (sinuses of Valsalva ; fig. 119). There is sometimes another di- latation along the right Fig. 119.* side, which is named the (/reaf sinus of the aorta. Branches. From the lower end of the as- cending aorta arise the two coronary arteries of the heart (fig. 119, o), which have already been noticed (p. 346). The ARCH OF THE AORTA extends from, the second right costal car- tilage to the lower bor- der of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, (m the left side. The convexity of the arch is upwards, and from it the three large arteries for the supply of the upper part of the l)ody arise. The vessel recedes from the sternum, being at first inclined to the left across the front of the trachea, and then directed backwards to the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra, where it turns downwards to join the descending aorta. It thus forms a second curve with the convexity to the left side. The arch rests upon the trachea, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the fourth dorsal vertebra. In front of it are the remains of the thymus gland, and some fat. On its left side are the left pleura and lung, and the left phrenic, superficial cardiac, and vagus forms two curves: relations. * Arch of the aorta and its great branches, a. Aortic arch. h. Innominate artery. c. Left common carotid. d. Left subclavian. e. Ligament of arterial duct. /. Vena cava superior, g. Left innominate vein. h. Right innominate vein. i. Left upper intercostal vein. k. Large azygos vein. /. Left subclavian vein. n. Thoracic duct. o. Coronary artery.360 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Objects con- tained in the arch. Three branches of the arch. Innominate artery ends in carotid and sub- clavian : relations. Left com- mon caro- tid: relations in the thorax. Left sub- clavian artery : course and relations in the chest. nerves, tlie last sending inwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border, in front of the great branches, is the left innominate vein {g), to which the left upper intercostal vein {i) is directed over the hinder part of the arch ; and to the lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arterial duct (e) is attached. Below the concavity of the arch of the aorta are the root of the left lung, the branching of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. The three large branches of the arch supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. First on the right is the trunk of the in- nominate artery (h) ; close to it is the left carotid (c) ; and last of all comes the left subclavian (d). The INNOMINATE ARTERY (brachio-cephalic ; h), the tirst and largest of the three branches, measures from one inch and a half to two inches in length. Ascending to the right beneath the sternum, it divides opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation into the right common carotid and subclavian arteries. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein (<j), and lies behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origins of the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. At first it rests on tlie trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the air-tube. To its right is the innominate vein of the same side (h). Usually no lateral branch arises from this artery. Left common carotid ai^tery (c), Tlie common carotid artery of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance between the arch and the top of the sternum. In the thorax the artery ascends obliquely to the left sterno- clavicular articulation, but not so close as the innominate to the first piece of the sternum and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein(f/), and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but afterwards inclines to the left of that tube, so as to be jilaced over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. The LEFT subclavian artery (d) ascends to the neck through the upper aperture of the thorax, and then curves outwards between the scaleni, where it has the same relations as the vessel of the right side (p. 68). The trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the level of the first rib. In the thorax it is deeply placed, near the spine. To its inner side is at first the trachea, and after- wards the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. On its outer side it is invested by the left pleura ; and the left innominate vein crosses in front of the vessel as it enters the neck. Somewhat anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direction, are some of the cardiac nerves. The relations of the first part of the left subclavian artery in tlie neck are given on j?. 117.361 SUPEEIOR CAVA AND INNOMINATE VEINS. Veins. In addition to the cardiac veins (p. 346), there are the The great superior and inferior cavse, and the pulmonary veins ;—the former ^^"^^ •~ are the great systemic vessels which return impure blood to the right auricle of the heart; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs to the left auricle. The SUPERIOR or descending cava (tig. 119,/) results from Vena cava the union of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the ^"P^"^^" = heart the blood of the head and neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is placed behind the junction of the first costal cartilage formed by of the rif^ht side with the sternum. From that spot the large vein i»no"'>"ate o , J. o veins; descends to the i^cricardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag f>oyj.se ■ about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer surface the vein is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve is in contact v/ith it. To tlie inner side are the j.gjj^|.io,^g. innominate artery and the ascending aorta. ]3ehind the vein is the root of the right lung. When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is joined branches, by the large azygos vein ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinum. The innominate veins are two in number, right and left; and Brachio- each is formed near the inner end of the clavicle by the junction of vems: the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Below, they are united in the superior cava. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their relations to surrounding parts. The right vein (li) is about one inch long, and descends almost right, vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, to its junction with the opposite vein. On the outer surface the pleura covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein (g) is nearly three inches in length, and is directed and left; obliquely to the right, along the upper border of the arch of the aorta. It crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the nerves descending over the arch. The hrcmches of the veins are nearly alike on the two sides. Each receives the vertebral, the internal mammary, and the inferior thyroid of its own side ; and the left vein is joined in addition by the superior intercostal, and some small thymic and pericardial veins. Occasionally the innomiuate veins are not united in the vena cava, but Soniethiies descend separately to the heart, where each has a distinct opening in the ^^'^^ .^^L^^ right auricle. Wlien such a condition exists, the right vein takes the course 5n^o\'5,e ^ of the upper cava in front of the root of the right lung ; but the left vein heart, descends in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch generally connects the two above the arch of the aorta. This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one at a very early period of the growth of the foetus ; and the two vessels are also persistent in some mammalia. Change of the tivo veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two during foetal growth, to produce the usual arrangement in the adult, concern are changed the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. _ First a cross branch is formed between the two trunks, and this enlarging gives rise to the left innominate veiti. Then the left trunk below the cross branch dis-362 DISSECTION OF THE TIIOEAX. and coro- nary sinus formed. appears at its middle, and undergoes transformation at eacli end :—At the upper end it becomes converted into a part of the superior intercostal vein. At the lower end it remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary sinus ; and the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 346) is a remnant of the trunk as it lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a trace of the occluded vessel in the form of a small fibrous band in the vestigial fold of the pericardium (p. 344). Vena cav.'i inferior. Four pul- nionai-y veins." Right veins the longer. Left veins. The INFERIOR or ascending cava enters the right auricle as soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches join the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this A^ein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen (p. 536). The PULMONARY VEINS are two on each side. Tliey issue from the hilum of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 342. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath the right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots from the upper and middle lobes of the lung ; and the inferior vein is formed by branches from the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. NERVES OF THE THORAX. Nerves of tlie tliorax. To trace vagus. Phrenic nerve from the cervical plexus, passes to diaphragm. Right nerve above root of lung. Left ner\'e above root. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic ner^'es suj^ply the viscera of the thorax ; and the phrenic nerve courses through the cavity to the diaj^hragm. Dissection. The phrenic nerves have already been fulh' displayed in the thorax ; but the pneumo-gastric nerves are now to be prepared. The vagus is to be followed, on each side, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out : some fine branches from tlie gangliated cord of the sympathetic, coming forwards over the spinal column to the jilexus, must also be looked for. To the front of the root the vagus supplies a few filaments. Beyond the root, the nerve is to be pursued along the ossoi^hagus by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The PHRENIC NERVE is a branch of the cervical plexus (p. 74). In its course through the thorax it lies along the side of the pericardium, and at a little distance in front of the root of the lung, with a small companion artery. When near the diaphragm it divides into branches, which perforate the muscle, and are dis- tributed on the under surface. The nerves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their relations above the root of the lung. The right nerve is shorter and straighter than the left. In enter- ing the chest it crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vein and superior cava till it reaches the pericardium. The left nerve crosses the subclavian artery, but has the same position as the right to the mammary vessels when entering the363 PNEUMO-GASTEIC NEEVE. cavity. In the thorax it is directed over tlie arcli of tlie aorta to the root of the lung, and makes a curve lower down around the projecting heart. Before reaching the aorta the nerve is placed external to the left common carotid artery ; and it inclines gradually from without inwards, so as to be in front of the left vagus on the arch. Branches. Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the Some off- nerve to the pleura and j)ericardium. IXTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. A Small part of tllis artery, which internal lies beneath the first rib, and winds round the phrenic nerve and "J-tSy'^'^^ the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum, is now to be seen. It gives the following offset:— The siqmior phrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a "very gives _ slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the dia- UJanS^ phragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anastomosing therein Avith the phrenic artery from the aorta (p. 534), and with the mus- culo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary (p. 265). The PNEUMO-GASTRIC Or VAGUS NERVE paSSeS through the thorax Vagus to the abdomen. In the lower jjart of the thorax the right and left nerves have a similar position, for they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But aljove the root of the lung, the two nerves have different rela- tions. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz., to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and tlie gullet. The right vagus enters the thorax between the subclavian artery 'R^g\^t vagus and the innominate vein, and is directed obliquely backwards, by of umg, the side of the trachea, to the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the posterior pulmonary plexus. From and ou the plexus two large offsets are continued to the back of the gullet, cesopiiagus. and unite below into one trunk, which reaches the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side of the left 1^"^^^"^.^^^^^ common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and of lung beneath the root of the lung, forming there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonary plexus one or two branches and on l)ass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with offsets of the Esophagus, right nerve in a plexus ; but the pieces are collected finally into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the gullet to the anterior jmrt of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve seen in the thorax are Branches the following :— ' a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arising on the right Recurrent side on a level with the subclavian artery, and on the left at the ^^^^^seai. lower border of the arch of the aorta, bends inwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympa- thetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. h. Cardiac branches {thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches fur- cardiac nished by the vagus in the neck, other offsets pass in front of the branches: trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come fromDISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 364 terior form ;i plexus the trunk of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are supplied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. lower cervi- The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each branch!'^*^ vagus nerve (p. 112) may be now seen. The branch of the right nerve lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac offset of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial cardiac plexus (p. 347). Pulmonary C- Pnlmonarij branches. There are two sets of nerves for the lung, branches: q^^q anterior and the other on the posterior aspect of the root. small The anterior branches, two or three in number, are small, and antenoi, communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on tlie pulmonar}^ artery : these nerves are best seen on the left side. large pes- The posterior branches are larger and much more numerous. Torming a plexiform arrangement {posterior lyulmonary plexus) behind the root of the lung b}^ the flattening and splitting of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into tlie lung on the divisions of the airtube. (Esophageal d. QJsophagc'il branches are furnished to the gullet, but in greatest branches abundance in tlie lower half. Below the root of the lung the lorm 3' , T p T . 1 • 1 plexus. branches of the pneunio-gastric nerves surround the cesophagus with a network {plexus gulai). Sympathetic Sympathetic nerve. In the thorax the sympathetic nerve con- consists^f ^^^^'"^ knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, which communicates with tlie spinal nerves ; and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and the lungs. a gangiiated The gaiigliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- cord, tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed (p. 374). and a cen- The CARDIAC PLEXUS lies over the lower end of the trachea, and plexus^above the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. A part of this net- work, the superficial cardiac plexus, has been already described (p. 347). The remaiidng part, or the deep cardiac ^dexus, is placed beneath tlie arch of the aorta. Dissection of Directions. The cardiac plexus has been injured by the previous the plexus: examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in which the heart and the large vessels are entire, to expose JJissection. The ascending aorta is to be cut across near the heart, partand is to be drawn over to the left side : next, the upper cava is to be divided above the entrance of the azygos vein, and its lower part is to be thrown down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lymphatic glands, the right part of the plexus will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pulmonary artery. The oftsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the and the left, left side enter, the aorta is to be cut through a second time, between the subclavian artery and the attachment of the ligament of the365 CARDIAC NERVES. ductus arteriosus ; and tlie arch is to Le turned upwards witli the j^reat vessels attached. Tlie lymphatic glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away from the plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the left coronary plexus of the heart will be visible. The dee]) cardiac j^lexusis situate between the trachea and the arch Deep cardiac of the aorta, and consists of right and left halves, which are joined Pi^^"'^- by cross branches. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sjanpathetic and Aligns, with the exception of two brandies of the left side ; and from it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs. The right imrt of the plexus is j^laced above the right branch of Eight part, the pulmonary artery, and receives the nerves of the right side, viz., ^lowformed; the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck, the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus in both the neck and chest, and the cardiac offsets of the recurrent branch. The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed mostly to branches to the ri^ht side of the heart, and pass downwards before and behind ^'s^it coro- the right branch of the pulmonary artery ; those in front run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to end in the right coronary plexus (p. 348) ; and the nerves behind supply the right auricle of the heart. Offsets are sent laterally on the branch of the artery to the ^ root of the lung. root of lung. The left half of the 'plexus lies close to the ligament of the arterial Left part: duct, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cnterj^io- it - cardiac nerves of the sympathetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest, and numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it to the heart around the left branch and oflfsets end the trunk of the j)ulmonary artery, and after supplying branches to nary plexus^ the left auricle, terminate in the left coronary plexus (p. 348). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the ligament to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some nerves reach the left ^^^^^ anterior pulmonary plexus by coursing along the branch of the of lung, pulmonary artery. Termination of the cardiac hranclies of the siinvpathetic nerve of the other car- 1 / , , _ X ' diac nerves.. neck (p. 115). On the right side there may be only two cardiac nerves entering The right the thorax, for the highest nerve is often blended with one of the piexus!^^^' others. These nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus ; and they communicate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the oneieft aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a glJpei:^^;^!. branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nerve, f)thers the' the middle cardiac, is usually seen entering the left side of the deep plexus, plexus, as the lower one generally blends with it. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. Dissection. To see fully the pieces of the airtube in the root of JJj^g^^gj^^ljnd the lung, it will be necessary to divide the branches of the pul- its divisions.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 366 Trachea ends in bronchi Its relations in the thorax. monary artery and the pulmonary veins. And when the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will he able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the connective tissue from the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. The TRACHEA, or windpipe, reaches from the larynx to the lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins opposite the sixth cervical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung. In the neck. Its relations in the neck are described on p. 120, and its structure on p. 170. The part in the thorax remains to be studied. In the thorax the trachea is situate with the great vessels in the superior mediastinum; and its loAver end is usually inclined some- what to the right side. Here it is covered by the left innominate vein, by the arch of the aorta, with the origins of the innominate and left common carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the airtube is the CKSophagus, which projects to the left above the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the pleura, the vagus, and the innominate artery for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left sub- clavian artery, and the recurrent branch of the vagus. The BRONCHI, or the branches of the airtube, are contained in the roots of the lungs, and are surrounded by vessels, glands and nerves. Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been described at p. 342. The right hronclius is about an inch in length, and is larger than the left; it also forms a more direct continuation of the trachea, from which circumstance a foreign body in the airtube is more likely to enter this bronchus. It passes obliquely outwards, on a level with the fifth dorsal vertebra, behind the upper cava and the right pulmonary artery ; and the azygos vein arches above it. The left bronchus is about two inches long, and reaches to the level of the sixth dorsal vertebra. It is directed obliquely downwards below the arch of the aorta, and crosses behind the corresponding j)ulmonary artery. It lies in front of the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. Dissection. The lungs are now to be removed from the body by cutting through the bronchi and the small vessels of the root. The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium is to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm : in removing the pericardium, the dissector shoidd be careful not to injure the things contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical characters op the lung. The surface of the lung is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the Bronchi lie in the roots of the lungs: are like the trachea in form. The right differs from the left in size and rela- tions. Remove the lungs. Take away heart and pericardium. Surface of lung is smooth ;AXATOMY OF THE LUNGS. 367 serous covering tlie mass of the limg may be seen to be divided is marked into small irregularly shaped pieces or lobules. On looking closely ^nd smaif at it, especially at a thin margin, minute cells will be perceived in it. colls. The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a colour pale red; but in the adult the texture becomes greyish, and presents l^l^^^ here and there dark grey spots or lines of pigment, the shade of'' which deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old people. After death, the colour of the posterior border may be Accidental bluish-black from the accumulation of blood. colour. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the Consistence, pulmonary substance appears like a sponge ; but the lung which is deprived of air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from the con- capitation taining spaces through the pulmonary structure, and produces the noise known as crepitation. If the lung contains serum or mucus, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very elastic, this elasticity causing the andeiasti- organ to contract w^hen the thorax is opened, and to expel air tliat may be blown into it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of Specific dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. Wlien the s™^''^^' pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water ; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and therefore sinks. The weight of the lung is and Aveight influenced greatly by the quantity of foreign material contained in ofthciuns. its texture ; ordinarily it ranges from sixteen to twenty-four ounces, the right lung being about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are hxrger, and together about twelve ounces heavier than in the female. Obvious structure of the luxck The substance of the lung is Lung con- composed of small polyhedral masses or lobules, which are hollow, ^Q^^lgg and and again subjiivided into minute vesicles called the air-cells. The these of air- lobules are visible as little polygonal areas upon the surface of tlie lung ; and by inflating a portion of the organ, the cellular structure may be seen. The several lobules are united together by connective tissue without fat; and each is attached to a terminal branch of the airtube, and receives offsets of the pulmonary vessels. The lung is invested by the pulmonic pleura, except at the hilum, serous where the vessels enter. The serous membrane is thin and trans- covering parent, and is closely attached to the lung-substance by means of a fine layer of subserous areolar tissue, which is continuous with the interlobular tissue. Both the pleura and the subserous tissue are and sub- very elastic, so that in the collapsed state the surface of the lung is "^^^^^"^ still smooth. Arrangement of the airtube and imhnonary artery entering the lung. Reiati(«nof It has already been seen that in the root of the lung the pulmonary ^rSms, artery lies at first in front of the bronchus ; but before entering the organ the artery crosses over, and gains the posterior surface of the airtube. On the left side the artery passes backwards above the on left side, undivided bronchus; but on the right side the bronchus gives off and on right.DISSECTION OF THE THOIIAX. 368 AirtuLes in lung: mode of In-auching; structure; and ending. Vessels are two sets :— Pulmonary uitery, and veins. Bronchial arteries, and veins. Lymphatics the branch to tlie upper lobe of tlie lung before it is crossed by the arterial trunk, which therefore runs between the upper and middle divisions of the airtube. From this arrangement it would appear that the lower half of the left Ijronchus and the two lobes of the left lung are represented on the right side by the continuation of the bronchus below the artery and the middle and lower lobes of the lung ; and that the upper lobe of the right lung with its divi- sion of the airtube have no representatives on the left side. Bronchial hranches in the lung. If the primary divisions of the bronchi be followed into the lung, they will be found to give oft' secondary branches ; and these, together with tlie smaller offsets of the air-passages, divide for the most part dichotomously. The branches of the airtube within the lung are known as the bronchia or bronchial tubes, and diifer from the bronchi in being circular in section. Their structure resembles that of the bronchi ; l}ut the pieces of cartilage are irregular in shajoe and occur on all sides of the tube, and the muscular tissue completely surrounds the canal. The ultimate bronchial tubes are about half a line in diameter ; and each le'ads to a group of somewhat funnel-shaped dilatations (infundibula), which are beset with air-cells and form tlie lobules of the lung. Vessels of the lung. Two sets of vessels are furnished to the lung, viz., the pulmonary, which bring blood to the lung to be aerated, and then return it to the heart, and the smaller bronchial, which convey the blood destined for the nutrition of the lung. The imlmonary artery divides like the bronchus, and within the lung its branches run usually on the i:)osterior surface of the bronchial tubes, which they accompany to the lobules. The arterial branches do not anastomose together ; and they end in the capillary network of the air-cells. The 2^ulmonary veins are not so regular in their arrangement as the arteries. They arise from the network of the air-cells ; and the branches from adjoining lobules communicate freely together. The larger branches for the most part lie in front of the airtubes which they accompany. The pulmonary veins have no valves. The bronchial arteries are derived from the aorta, and enter the lung on the airtube, which they also follow in its ramifications. They distribute branches to the bronchial lymphatic glands, to the walls of the larger blood-vessels and bronchial tubes, and to the interlobular connective tissue. Other small oft"sets ramify on the surface of the lung beneath the pleura. On the smallest bronchial tubes minute branches anastomose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. The bronchial veins begin by twigs corresponding with the super- ficial and deep branches of the artery, and leave the root of the lung to end in the azygos veins. Many of these veins, however, open into the pulmonaiy veins, both within the lung and in the root. The lymphatics of the lung are superficial and deep ; the latter accompany both the bronchia and the branches of the pulmonary vessels. All pass to the bronchial glands at the root of the lung.369 DESCENDING THORACIC AOETA. The nerves of tlie lung are derived throngli tlie pulmonary Pulmonary plexuses from the vagus and sympathetic, and follow the branches of the airtube. They have minute ganglia connected with their filaments. PARTS ON THE SPINE AND THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. In front of the spinal column are the objects in the interpleural space of the posterior mediastinum, viz., the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic duct, and oesophagus ; and beneath the pleura on each side of the spine is the sympathetic nerve. Dissection. The thoracic duct should be found first near the dia- Dissection ])hragm by removing the pleura ; there it is about as large as a auet"^^'^"' crow-quill, and rests against the right side of the aorta : this slender vessel may be injected with tallow. The areolar tissue and the pleura are to be cleared away from the f>f"ther different things before mentioned ; and the az3^gos veins, one on the right and two on the left of the aorta, should be dissected. Next follow the thoracic duct upwards beneath the arch of the aorta, and along the oesophagus beneath the pleura, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. After raising the pleura from the inner surface of the chest, the and of sym- gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve will be seen lying over ^ the heads of the ribs. Branches are to be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves ; and others inwards over the bodies of the vertebrae,—the lowest and largest of these forming the three trunks of the splanchnic nerves. The DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA is the part of the great systemic Descending vessel between the termination of the arch and the diaphragm. Its nortaf ^ extent is from the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra (the extent; left side) to the front of the last dorsal vertebra. Contained in the posterior mediastinum, the vessel is rather course; curved, lying at its upper end on the left, but below on the front of the spinal column. Beneath it are the vertebrse and the smaller and reia- azygos veins. In front of the vessel are the root of the left lung and the pericardium. On its left side it is covered throughout by the pleura ; and on its right side are the oeso23hagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein, though near the diaphragm the gullet is placed over the aorta. The branches of the vessel are distributed to the surrounding Branches, parts, and are named from their destination bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and intercostal. a. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, and ^[g'J^n^"* adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, on which they ramify (p. 368) ; they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and tion; the oesophagus. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and inferior), two left; which arise from the front of the aorta at a short distance from each other. The artery of the right lung arises in common with one of the one right. B Bdissectiojn" of the THOEAX. 370 Vein of tlie lung. Pericardial branches. CEsophageal branches. Mediastinal branches. Intercostal arteries: number: coui-se to intercostal spaces; right longer. The anterior branch occupies intercostal space with vein and nerve Oftsets. Anasto- Posterior branch turns to the back. left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first intercostal artery of the right side. Bronchial veins. A vein issues from the root of each lung, and ends on the right side in the large az^^gos vein, and on the left in the superior azygos vein of its own side. 6. The j^mVftrcZm? hranclies are some irregular twigs, which are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac bag. c. The oesophageal branches are four or five in number, and ramify in the gullet, forming anastomoses with one another ; above, they communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery ; and l)elow, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. d. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the areolar tissue and the glands in the interpleural space. e. The intercostal arteries are nine on each side, and pass to the same number of lower intercostal spaces : to the upper two spaces branches are supplied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These vessels arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the bodies of the vertebroe, beneath the cord of the sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique direction ; and as the aorta lies on the left of the spine, the right vessels are the longer; the right run also beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. Many twigs are supplied to the bodies of the vertebrae. In the intercostal space, the anterior branch^ the larger of the two, continues onwards between the muscular strata to the front of the chest, where it ends by anastomosing with an intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery (p. 265). At first the artery lies in the middle of the space, beneath the pleura, and resting on the external intercostal muscle ; but near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper boundary. Accompanying the artery are the inter- costal vein and nerve,—the vein being commonly above, and the nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is, at first, higher than the artery. Branches are furnished to the intercostal muscles, and to the ribs. Near the angle of the rib a larger branch is given off, which runs forwards along the low^er border of the space, and joins in front a branch of the internal mammary ; and about the centre (from front to back) of the intercostal space a superficial twig arises, to accom- pany the lateral cutaneous nerve (p. 265). The highest artery of the aortic set of intercostals anastomoses with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery; and the last two are continued in front into the abdominal wall, where they lie between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and anastomose with the epigastric and lumbar arteries (p. 459). The posterior branch turns backwards between the vertebra and the ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in the back (p. 404). As it passes the intervertebral foramen it furnishesAZYGOS VEINS. .371 a small spinal brancli to the vertebra and tlie spinal cord. (See VESSELS OF THE SPINAL CANAL.) The intercostal vein resembles closely the artery in its course and intercostal branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing ^^™* dorsal branch, and then joins an azygos vein. The SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY of the Subclavian trunk Superior (p. 71) descends over the neck of the first rib, external to the cord intercostal of the symj)athetic, and supplies a branch to the first intercostal supplies two space : continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper aortic branch. Its intercostal offsets divide into anterior and posterior branches, which are distributed like the arteries from the aorta. The AZYGOS VEINS are two in number on the left side and one on Three azygos the right, and receive branches corresponding to the offsets furnished by the descending thoracic aorta. The rifjht or large azygos (fig. 120,^) begins in the lumbar veins Large on the right side of the spine ; and its origin is described with the ri^Jht^side,^'^ vessels of the abdomen (p. 544). It enters the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta and thoracic duct, over the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebrie. Opposite the fifth rib the vein arches for- wards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava and joins as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are few and very cavaV°^ incomplete, so that the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it. Branches. In this vein are collected the intercostals of the right branches side with the exception of the first ; m.ost of the intercostals of the ^^^^^^^ left side of the thorax, through the left azygos veins ; and some small oesophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins, with the right bronchial vein. By means of the right azygos vein the inferior communicates with the sujDerior cava, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower haK of the body if the inferior cava should be obstructed. The left lower azygos vein (fig. 120,^) begins in the abdomen in Left lower the lumbar veins on the left side of the vertebral column. Enter- ing the thorax along with the aorta, or through the crus of the i^egius in diaphragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the ninth or eighth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses beneath that vessel f^^^ in o . larger and the thoracic duct to end in the right azygos. It receives the azygos: three or four lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some branches, oesophageal and mediastinal branches. The left up2oer a?:ygos vein (fig. 120,^) is formed by offsets from Left upper the spaces between the superior intercostal and the preceding. Eeceiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The superior intercostal vein is a short trunk which is formed by ^'-J.P^jjj^g^^^ the union of the veins from the second, third, and fourth spaces, ygin: On the right side it descends to join the beginning of the arch of ending of the large azygos vein ; but on the left side (fig. 119, *) it is directed "S^it, B B 2DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 372- and of left. Vein from first space. CEsophagus in the thorax, passes through diaphragm. Parts covering it. beneatli it, and on sides. Three coats are in it. A muscuhir coat of external longitudinal and internal circular fibres. Fibrous layer. Mucous coat. forwards across the arch of the aorta, and then turns upwards to enter the left innominate vein. The highest intercostal vein ascends from the first intercostal space, in company with the superior intercostal artery, and joins the lower end of the vertebral vein. The OESOPHAGUS or gullet is a hollow muscular tube, which ex- tends from the pharynx to the stomach : the cervical portion has been described at p. 120, and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Appearing in the thorax to the left of the middle line, the gullet is directed beneatli the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is con- tinued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta, till near the diaphragm, where it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the oesophageal opening of that muscle. As far as the aortic arch the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it projects to the left of the airtube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is thence in contact with the pericardium as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax the gullet rests on the long! colli inuscles and the vertebrae ; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the large azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the right intercostal arteries, as well as by the aorta near the diaphragm. Laterally it touches the left pleura above the arch, and both pleura; below, but the right much more extensively than the left. Below the bronchus the pneumo-gas- tric nerves surround the oesophagus with their branches ; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact with it on the left. Structure. If a piece of the gullet be removed and distended with tow, it will be easy to show a muscular, an areolar, and a mucous coat, from without inwards. The muscular coat is thick and strong, and consists of two layers of fibres, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the oesophagus the muscular coat is red, and composed of striped fibres ; but below this it becomes gradually paler, and the striped fibres give way to involuntary muscular tissue. The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal fibres, which form a continuous covering, and end below on the stomach. The fibres begin opposite the cricoid cartilage (p. 133) ; and at intervals varying from half an inch to an inch and a half, they are interrupted by small tendons (-J^ to of an inch long) like the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle. The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above with the fibres of the pharynx ; they are more oblique at the middle than at either end of the oesophagus. The areolar or suhmucous layer is situate between the muscular and mucous coats, and attaches the one to the other loosely. The mucous coat will be seen on cutting open the tube : it is reddish in colour above but pale below, and is very loosely con- nected with the muscular coat, so that it is thrown into longitudinal373 LYMPHATICS AND THORACIC DUCT. folds when the OBsophagns is contracted. The surface is studded Papiii* and with minute papilloe, which are however concealed by the thick, laminated, scaly epithelium. Some compound glands (oesophageal) are scattered along the tube, Some and are most numerous at the lower end of the gullet. glands. Lymphatics of the Thorax. In the thorax are lymphatic Lymphatics vessels of the wall and the viscera, which enter collections of glands, thorax and end in one or other of the lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdo- men to the neck. Lymphatic glands. Along the course of the internal mammary sternal artery lies a chain of sternal glands, which receive lymphatics from siands. the ujDper part of the abdominal wall, the front of the chest, the mamma, and the fore j^art of the diaphragm. On each side of the spine, near the heads of the ribs, as well as intercDstai. between the intercostal muscles, is placed a group of intercostal glands for the reception of the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. Three or four anterior mediastinal glands lie in the fore part of Anterior the interpleural space, and receive lymphatics from the upper sur- face of the liver and the diaphragm. Numerous bronchial glands are situate at the division of the Bronchial, trachea, and along the bronchi ; through them the lymphatics of the lung pass. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of posterior Posterior mediastinal glands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the ceso- ^''^^^'^^^^i^^^- phagus, and hinder parts of the pericardium and diaphragm. Along the front and lower border of the arch of the aorta are the Superior superior mediastinal or cardiac glands, which receive the lymphatics "'^^i^^tinai. of the heart, the pericardium, and the thymus. The thoracic duct (fig. 120,^) is the main channel by which Thoracic the lymph of the lower half of the body, and of the left side of the upper half of the body, as well as the chyle, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in an enlargement begins in (receptaculum chyli ; p. 540), and ends in the veins of the left side men^nd of the neck. It is from fifteen to eighteen inches in length, and is j^^jj^"' contained in the thorax, except at its origin and termination. It has the following course and relations :— Entering the cavity through the same opening as the aorta, the Relations duct ascends on the right side of that vessel as high as the arch. "ioJ^^x. Opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra it passes beneath the aortic arch, and is then applied to the left side of the oesophagus, on which it is conducted to the neck under the left subclavian artery. At the lower part of the neck the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 117), to open into the left subclavian vein at its junction with the internal jugular. In this course the tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite ^^^"JgJ^^^ again ; or its divisions may even form a plexus. Near its termina- f^^.^^Jj^^^ tion it is frequently branched. It is provided with valves at inter- with valves; vals, like a vein ; and these are in greatest number at the upper part.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 374 receives most lym- phatics. Right dixct is in the neck: Fig. 120^ Branches to join spinal nerves to supply viscera. ts of upper six ganglia are small; Branches. In the thorax the duct receives the lymphatics of the left half of the cavity, viz., from the sternal and intercostal glands ; also the lymphatics of the left Inng, the left side of the heart, and the trachea and oesophagus. The RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT (fig. 29) receives large branches from the viscera of the thorax. It is a short trunk, about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 72) : its opening is guarded by valves. Branches. Into this trunk the lymphatics of the right upper limb and right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, right lung and right half of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their re- spective glands, unite into a few large trunks, which ascend beneath the innomi- nate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Cord of the sympathetic nerve. The thoracic part of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve is covered by the ]3leura, and is placed over the heads of the ribs and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but this number is frequently reduced by the fusion of two adjoining swellings. The first ganglion is the largest ; and the last two are rather anterior to the line of the others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the corresponding vertebrae. Each ganglion furnishes external branches to communicate with the spinal nerves, and internal for the supply of the viscera. External or connecting branches {fig. 121). Two offsets pass outwards from each gang- lion to join a spinal nerve (intercostal). In the branches of communication both spinal and sympathetic nerve-fibres are combined; but one (h) consists almost entirely of spinal, and the other {i) mainly of sym- pathetic fibres. The internal or visceral branches difter in size and distribution, according as they are derived from the upper or lower ganglia. The off'sets of the upper six ganglia are very small, and are dis- tributed to the aorta, and to the vertebrae with the ligaments. The thoracic duct, and the azygos veins. 1. Thoracic duct. 2. Ending of the duct in the left subclavian vein. 3. Large azygos vein, 4. Left lower azygos vein. 5. Left upper azygos vein. 6. Vena cava superior. 7. Left internal jugular vein, cut through.375 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. From the third and fourth ganglia offsets are sent to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the loiver six ganglia are larger and much whiter than the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of the abdomen : these are three in number, (large, small, and smallest) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the Fig. 121.* solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which receives roots appa- rently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high as the third ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebra3, it pierces the fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the semilunar s-ancj- lion of the abdomen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may present a ganglion. The small splanchnic nerve begins in the tenth and eleventh ganglia, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted inferiorly through the crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus by the side of the coeliac artery. The smallest splanchnic nerve sj^rings from the last ganglion, and accompanies the other nerves through the diaphragm ; in the abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This nerve may be absent, and its place is then taken by an offset of the preceding. of lower six, large, and form great splanchnic to semilunar ganglion; small splano.linic to coeliac plexus; smallest splanclmic to renal plexus. PARIETES OF THE THORAX. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles, soft parts with the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside the ribs is a thorfr thin fleshy layer at the back,—the subcostals. The base of the thorax is formed by the diaphragm. The SUBCOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of fleshy fibres, which SubcostaLs are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- P^^^^^*^"' * Scheme to iUustrate the connection between the spinal and sympathetic nerves. (Todd and Bowman.) a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, with a ganghon, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch, e. Anterior primary branch of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of the sympathetic. g. GangHa on the cord. h. "White offset from tlie spinal to the sympathetic nerve, i. Grey offset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve.376 DISSECTIOJT OF THE THORAX. attach- ments ; irregulari- ties ; and use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of the rib; relations. Out-er layer extends back to tuberosity of the rib. Use. Trace nerves. Eleven intercostal nerves. Upper and lower ones differ. Last dorsal nerve. Course of upper six, and branches. Exceptions in first two. First nerve ends mostly in brachial plexus. coetals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to tlie like surface of the ril) next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. The subcostals draw together, and depress the ribs, thus acting as expiratory muscles. Intercostal muscles. The anterior part of these muscles has been described (p. 263) ; and the posterior part may be now examined from the inner side. The inner muscle begins at the sternum, and reaches back to the angles of the ribs, or somewhat farther in the upper spaces. Where the fibres cease, a thin fascia (^posterior intercostal (qmieurosis) is continued inwards over the outer muscle. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve and vessels. External muscle. When the fascia and the subcostal muscles have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen between the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres cross tliose of the inner intercostal layer. While this muscle extends backwards to the tuberosity of the rib, it is generally absent in front between the rib-cartilages (p. 263). Action. The use of the intercostal muscles in respiration is. given on p. 263. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercostal muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and artery traced outwards. The INTERCOSTAL NERVES, eleven in number, are anterior primary branches of dorsal nerves ; and they pass from the intervertebral foramina into the intercostal spaces without forming a plexus. Near the head of the rib each nerve is joined to the sympa- thetic by two communicating filaments (p. 374). The upper six are confined to the wall of the thorax ; but the lower five are prolonged into the abdominal wall, where the ribs cease in front. The anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve lies below the last rib, and is seen in the dissection of the abdomen. Upper six nerves. At first the nerves lie between the pleura and the external intercostal muscle with an artery and vein ; but they soon enter between the intercostal muscles, and extend forwards to the side of the sternum (p. 265). In their course they supply branches to the muscles of the thoracic wall, viz., the subcostals, intercostals, and triangularis steriu, as well as to the levatores costarum and serrati muscles of the back, and cutaneous offsets to the surface, which are described in the dissection of the upper limb (p. 249). There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the arrangement above specified. The first nerve (fig. 85) ascends in front of the neck of the first rib, and enters the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest it supplies to the first intercostal space a branch, which furnishes377 UPPEE SURFACE OF DIAPHRAGM. muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of tlie sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous offset from this branch, except when the second nerve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles ; and it frequently sends upwards a branch to join the first nerve. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 249). In front it ends like the others. The loiver jive nerves resemble the foregoing in their course and Lower ihc branches in the intercostal spaces: their termination in the°^"^^' abdominal wall is described on p. 455, Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre of the muscle Upper sm- is tendinous, and the circumference is tieshy. In contact with the ciiapLra<^m upper surface are the lung with the pleura on each side, and the heart and pericardium in the middle : the phrenic vessels and Parts touch- nerves pierce this surface, external to the pericardium. In the dia- phragm are the following apertures ;—one for the oesophagus and Apertures the pneumo-gastric nerves, a second for the vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the large azygos vein, and a cleft on each side for the splanchnic nerves. Beneatli it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. The arch of the diapliragm towards the thorax has been before Curve, referred to (p. 337). Directions. The dissector of the thorax now waits while the The ^^i^ssec- examination of the back is made. Afterwards he is to learn the back is now ligaments of the ribs and spine : a notice of these will be found in the following Section. Section II. LIOAMEXTS OF THE TRU2s^K. The ligaments of the vertebra, ribs, and sternum are included in this Section. Articulations of the Ribs. Each rib is united to the spinal ^^Jj^^^^l^-j^ column at the one end, and to the costal cartilage at the other, ^ibj.,*' Between it and the spine there are two synovial joints, and two sets of ligaments, viz., one between the head of the rib and the bodies of the vertebrae, and a second passing from the neck and tuberosity to the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The costal cartilages are connected to the sternum and to one ami costal another by synovial joints and ligaments. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the ligaments between To see^the the ribs and the vertebras, take a piece of the spinal column with bral liga- three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal and "^ents, other muscles, and the loose tissue from the surface of the bones, the student will l)e able to define, as below, the ligaments passingDISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 378 andchondro- sternal. Ligaments of head of rib are anterior or stellate and interar- ticular, with syno- vial sacs. Costo- transverse ligaments: superior or ascending, posterior, Fii?. 122. from the liead and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebrse. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilages to the sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in opening the cavity. Ligaments of the head of the rib. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebrae, there are two ligaments to the arti- culation—anterior costo-central and interarticular, with two synovial sacs. The anterior costo-central or stellate ligament (fig. 122,^) is composed of radiating fibres, which pass from the head of the rib to the two vertebral bodies forming the articular cavity, and to the disc between them. Where the rib is in contact only with one vertebra, i. e., in the first, eleventh and twelfth, a few fibres ascend to the vertebra immediately above. The interarticular liagament will be seen when the stellate is divided. It is a very short thin band, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the two articular surfaces on the head of the rib, and on the other to the intervertebral disc. In the joints of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, where the head is not in contact with the intervertebral substance, this ligament is absent. Synovial sacs. There are usually two synovial cavities in the costo-central articulation, one on each side of the interarticular ligament; but in the three joints before mentioned (1st, 11th, 12th) there is but one. Ligaments of the neck and tuberosity. Three ligaments pass from the neck and tuberosity of the rib to the transverse processes of the two vertebrse with which the head is connected; and the tuberosity forms a synovial joint with the transverse process of the lower vertebra. The superior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 122,'*) is larger and longer than the others. It ascends from the upper edge of the neck of the rib to the transverse process of the vertebra above : it is wanting to the first rib. Between this ligament and the vertebra the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves pass ; and externally it is continued into the posterior intercostal aponeurosis. The loosterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 129,^) is a short band * Ligaments of the ribs and vertebra (Bourgery). 1. Anterior hgament of the bodies of the vertebrse. 2. Short lateral fibres uniting the bodies. 3. Stellate ligament. 4. Superior costo-transverse ligament. 5. Interspinous ligament.379 AETICULATIONS OF THE EIBS. of fibres between tlie rough part of tbe tuberosity of the rib and the tip of the transverse process with w^hich the latter articulates. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse ligament is placed and middle; between the neck of the rib and the transverse process which the tuberosity touches. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the transverse process. Its fibres are collected into separate bundles, with fatty tissue between them. The synovial cavity of the costo-transverse articulation will be synovial opened by dividing the posterior ligament. There is no joint between the last two ribs and their transverse pifferences j)rocesses ; and the posterior and middle costo-transverse ligaments and twelfth are united in one band. Movements of the ribs. The ribs undergo a movement of rotation The ribs around an axis which passes through the costo-central articulation around an in a direction corresponding very nearly to that of the neck of the axis, bone. By this rotation the fore part of the rib is carried upwards and outwards in inspiration, and do^vnwards and inwards in expiration. The degree of outward movement is necessarily pro- which is portionate to the obliquity of the axis, and is therefore greater in oblique. ^^^'^ the case of the lower ribs than the upper, since the backward inclination of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrjB, and of the necks of the ribs, increases from above downwards. The lower The lower ribs, while being elevated, also move somewhat backwards, their mOTe^back- tuberosities gliding over the sloped facets of the transverse processes ; ^q'^^^^j,^"'^ and in the eleventh and twelfth ribs the upward and downward movements are but slight, while the forward and backward move- ments are relatively free, owing to the absence of the costo-transverse articulation. Costal cartilage with the rib. The end of the rib is hollowed Rib and to receive the costal cartilage, and the two are directly united. The periosteum of the rib is continued into the perichondrium of the cartilage. Chondro-sternal Articulations. The cartilages of the true Costal car- ribs, except the first, are articulated to the sternum by synovial tile sternum, joints. The extremity of each cartilage is received into a depression on the side of the sternum, and is fixed by a surrounding capsule fig. 54, In front and behind, the capsule is thickened by radiat- ing fibres, which are described as anterior and posterior ligaments. In the joint of the second cartilage there is an interarticular Second car- ligament (fig. 54,'^), like that to the head of the rib, which joins the douWe j^ohit. cartilage between the pieces of the sternum ; and the synovial sac is double. Similar bands are sometimes present in one or two of the succeeding joints. A special band of fibres passes from the cartilage of the seventh Costo- rib to the ensiform process, and is named costo-xijjJwid ligament. K^nient. The cartilage of the first rib adheres directly to the sternum, First carti- without forming any joint, ^^s^- Interchondral Articulations. The cartilages of the ribs from Cartilages the sixth to the ninth articulate together by means of broad processes anotherf on their adjacent edges, Avhich are connected by synovial joints.DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 380 Motion of cartilase.s. Manubrium and body of sternum. Two sets of ligaments unite the vertebrae. How to see the several ligaments. The bodies are united by Anterior comm(m ligament: form and thickness : extent of fibres: Each joint is sinTOimded hj a short capsule, and is supported in front by strong fibres of the anterior intercostal aponeurosis (p. 263). The ends of the eighth, ninth and tenth cartilages are united each to the cartilage above by bands of fibrous tissue. Movements. There is only a limited degree of movement in the chondro-sternal and interchondral articulations, the cartilages being elevated with the ribs in inspiration, and sinking in expiration. Articulation of the Sternum. The manubrium and body of the sternum are united by a piece of cartilage, with anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres. In some cases there is a cavity result- ing from the absorption of the central portion of the cartilage. There is no appreciable movement between the pieces of the sternum, but the articulation aids in giving elasticity to the front of the chest. Articulations of the Vertebra. The vertebrae are united together by two sets of ligaments, —one for the bodies, and the other for the arches and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will sufiice except for those between the first two vertebrae and the head, and those of the pelvis. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined, the same piece of the s^jinal column will serve for the preparation of tlie ligaments of the bodies of the vertebrae. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be defined with very little trouble, by removing the areolar tissue. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of tlie vertebr£B is laid bare ; but if the canal should not be open, the neural arches of the vertebra} are Fig. 123.* to be removed by sawing through the pedicles. The remaining ligaments be- tween the neural arches, spines, and articular processes of the bones may be dissected on the piece taken away in opening the spinal canal. Ligaments of the bodies. The bodies of the vertebrae are united by an anterior and a posterior common ligament, with an inter- vening piece of fibro-cartilage. The anterior common ligament/ (fig. 123, a) reaches from the axis to the sacrum. It is narrow above and wide below ; and it also in- creases in thickness from above downwards. Its fibres are longitudinal ; and by detaching parts of the ligament, the superficial ones will be seen to extend over * a. Anterior common Hgament of the bodies of the vertebrae, b. Lateral short fibres.381 LIGAMENTS OF YERTEBR^. three or foiu' vertebrse, while the deepest i^ass from one hone to and mode of the next. More of the fibres are attached to the intervertebral discs than to the bones ; and few or none are fixed to the centre of the bodies. The ligament bridges over the transverse hollows on the vertebral bodies, and renders the front of the column smooth and even. On each side, over the part uncovered by the anterior common short latera ligament, the bodies of the vertebrse are united by a thin layer of short fibres (fig. 123, &). The posterior common ligament (fig. 124) is contained in the Posterior spinal canal, lying on the l^ack of the vertebral bodies, and also ugament: extends from the tixis to the sacrum. It is much thinner than the anterior, and, unlike that, is broad above and narro^v below. It is form; wider opposite the intervertebral discs than on the l)()dies, so that Fig. 124 a.* Fig. 124b. the margins are dentate. In the neck (a) it covers nearly the whole breadth of the bodies ; but in the dorsal and lumbar regions (b) it is a narrow band, which sends off a pointed process on each side to be attached to the intervertebral disc and the upper margin of the pedicle. The hinder surface of the ligament is in contact with the relations, dura mater ; and between the band and the centre of the bodies are intervals where large veins issue from the bones. The fibres are arranged as in the anterior ligament; and they are more closely united with the intervertebral substance than with the bone. Dissection. To see the intervertebral discs, the anterior and To see the ])Osterior common ligaments must be taken awaj^; and to show "ertebrai their structure, one disc should be cut through horizontally, while substance, another is to be divided vertically by sawing through the bodies of two vertebrse. The intervertebral substances or discs (fig. 125) are placed between inter- the bodies of the vertebrse, with the exception of the atlas and axis. ^Tscs^^^^ Each disc is a flattened or slightly biconvex plate (fig. 126), which form and is firmly united to the adjacent surfaces of two bodies ; and its form Two views of the posterior common ligament, c, to show the difference in shai>c, A, in the neck, and b, in the loins.382 DISSECTIOIT OF THE THORAX. connec- tions ; structure; and size are determined by the bones between wliich it lies. It is connected in front and behind with the anterior and posterior common ligaments ; and on the sides, in the dorsal region, with the stellate and interarticular ligaments of the ribs. In the sections that have been made the intervertebral substance Fig. 125.^=- Fig. 126.t outer part of fibrous laminge: inner part of pulpy substance, Fig. 127. i is seen to consist of two different parts,—an external, firm and laminar, and an internal, soft and pnlpy (fig. 126). The outer laminar part (fig. 127, a) forms more than half of the disc. The lamince are disposed concentrically, but do not form complete rings ; and they are at- tached by their edges to the bodies of the vertebrae (fig. 126, a). They are composed for the most part of white fibro-cartilage ; but the superficial ones consist of fibrous tissue. The fibres are parallel in each lamina, and run obliquely between two vertebrae ; but the direction is reversed in alternate layers (fig. 125). This arrangement of the fibres is best seen in the thicker discs between the lumbar vertebrae ; and it may be demonstrated by dissecting layer after layer. The central pulpy portion of the disc (fig. 127. b) is very soft, * Intervertebral substance in the lumbar region with, its laminse displayed. a. Supei"ficial, and b, deeper layer, the fibres in the two taking different directions. f Vertical section of the intervertebral substance, a. Peripheral laminar part, b. Central pulpy part, + Horizontal section of an interverteb.'al disc, a. Laminar external part. b. Pulpy central substance.LIGAMENTS OF YEETEBE^. 383 and being tightly confined by the surrounding lamina3, it projects when two vertebr83 and the interposed mass are sawn through. Placed nearer the back than the front of the disc, it is more marked situation, in the loins and neck than in the dorsal region. It has a yellowish i^J^,^est. colour, aiid is deficient in the stratiform arrangement so conspicuous at the circumference. The surfaces of the vertebras in contact with the disc have a Cartiliige cartilaginous covering, which may be seen by cutting the inter- ^oiie"'^^ vertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it forms a continuous layer, but it is wanting towards the circumference. The discs are thicker between the lumbar and cervical, than Thickness between the upper and middle dorsal vertebrae ; and in the loins and neck, where the spinal column is convex forwards, they are and form of deepest at the anterior edge, being wedge-shaped. The thickest piece of all, and the most wedge-shaped, is between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The total thickness of the discs amounts to about a fourth of the length of the moveable part of the spinal column. Use. The intervertebral discs form the chief bond of union They i.ind between the several bones of the column ; and mainly by reason to<^ether""*^ of their strength, displacement of the vertebree is a rare occur- rence. In the movements of the spine the vertebrae revolve around the but permit central pulpy portion of the discs ; and the extent of the move- ment between two segments of the column is limited by the circumferential laminar portion of the discs. Through their wedge-shaped form the discs are chiefly instru- render mental in giving rise to the convexity of the spine in the loins and convex, neck ; and by their elasticity they moderate the effect of jars or shocks transmitted through the column. Ligaments of the neural arches and processes. The articular Several processes of the vertebras are connected by synovial joints with th^arch and surrounding capsules ; the neural arches are united by yellow processes, ligaments ; the spinous processes have one band along their tips and others in the intervals between them; and some of the transverse processes are joined by fibrous bands. Joints of articular processes. Between the articulatins2: processes ^i"ticular . T . . . ^ ^ , or have capsule there is a moveable joint, in which the bones are covered with and synovial cartilage, and are surrounded by a capsular ligament, enclosing a synovial membrane. The capsules are loosest in the cervical, and strongest in the lumbar region. Movement. In these gliding joints the articular processes of the Motion in vertebrae move to a limited extent over one another, the direction the joints, of the motion being determined by the form and inclination of their surfaces. The kinds of movement permitted in any portion of the column are thus dependent upon the characters of the joints between the articular processes. The movements are freest in the cervical region, and least extensive between the upper dorsal vertebrae. By their overlapping, the articular processes also help in giving384 DISSECTION OF THE TIIOEAX. security to tlie spine ; and in dislocation of the vertebrce they are generally broken off. Yellow Liqaments of the arches. The liqamenta suhflava are small li^'aiueiits ot ^ the lamiuw: rhomboidal sheets of yellow elastic tissue, which close the intervals between the neural arches at the back of the spinal canal from, the axis to the sacrum. In each interval there are two ligaments, a extent; right and a left, which meet in the middle line, and extend from attacli- incnts: thickness. Ligaments i)f spines: supraspi- nous ; ami inter- spi nous. the root of the spine to the articular j^i'ocesses. Tliey are attached above to the anterior or deep surface of the laminse of one vertebra, and below to the upper border and posterior surface of the laminae of the next. They are thin in the neck, and strongest in the loins. Ligaments of the spines. Along the tips of the spinous j^rocesses of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrse is a longitudinal band of fibres (fig. 129, ^)—the siq^raspinotis ligament. It is thickest in the lumbar region ; and it consists of superficial fibres which pass over three or more spines, and deep fibres which unite adjoining bones. Many of the back muscles arise from it on each side. In the same regions there are also membranous intersjpinous ligaments (fig. 122, ^) reaching from the root to the tip of the spinous processes. They are thicker and broader in the lumbar than in the dorsal part of the column. * An inner view of the nenral arches of the vertebrse, with their interposed ligaments. (Bourgery.) 1 and 2. Ligamenta subflava. t Ligaments of the processes of the vertebrje, and of the ribs. (Bourgery.) 1. Supraspinous ligament. 2. Ligaraentum subflavum. 3. Posterior costo- transverse ligament : on the opposite side the band has been removed and the joint opened. 4. Intertransverse ligament.385 MOVEMENTS OF SPINE. In the neck the place of the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments is taken hy the ligamentum nuchse (p. 390). Ligaments of the transverse processes. In the loins the inter- Inter- transverse ligaments are thin membranous bands in the intervals ij^^ments^ between the processes. In the dorsal region there are rounded fibrous bundles (fig. 129,"^) passing between the extremities of the transverse processes of the middle vertebrae, and representing the intertransverse muscles of the low^er spaces. In the neck they are absent. Ligaments of Special Vertebra. The description of the Ligaments ligaments of the first two cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal vertebra! vertebrai, will be found with the dissection of the neck (p. 175) and of the pelvis (p. 595). Movements of Spinal Column. The spinal column can be Kinds of bent forwards, backwards, and to each side ; and it can be rotated. ^ ^' In flsxion the vertebrae between the axis and sacrum are inclined Flexion: forwards. The greatest movement takes place between the lower lumbar vertebrae and the sacrum ; there is an intermediate degree desree; in the neck ; and the least is in the upper half of the dorsal region, where the ribs are united to the sternum. The bodies of the bones are brought nearer together in front, movement while they are separated behind. The inferior pair of articular ^^^^^' processes of the second vertebra glide upwards on the upper of the third ; the inferior processes of the third bone move in like manner on the upper of the fourth ; and so on throughout the moveable column. The ligament in front of the bodies is relaxed, but the posterior, j'jg^^^g^^g and those uniting the neural arches and processes are tightened. The fore part of each intervertebral disc is compressed, and the back is stretched. In extension the column is arched backw^ards. The motion is Extension: most in the neck, and least in the dorsal vertebra^, which are fixed "l^ere most, by the true ribs and the sternum, and are impeded in their move- -"^"'^ ^^^^^ '■> ment b}" the overlapping spinous processes. The posterior parts of the vertebrae are approximated, while the "j.^^'^^"^^*^ anterior are separated ; and the inferior articular processes of each glide downwards on the upper ones of the next succeeding bone. The condition of the ligaments is the opposite to that in flexion. ^j^j^JJ^^^^g Thus, the intervertebral discs are compressed behind, and stretched in front ; the spinous and yellow ligaments are relaxed; the anterior common liga72?.ent of the bodies is tightened, and the hinder band is slackened. Lateral inclination. The spine can be curved to the right or the Beiidingto left side. Like the last movement, this bend is least in the more ^^^^^"^^. fixed upper dorsal vertebrae, and is greatest in the neck. On the concave side of the curve, say the right, the bodies are movement ' ^ „ of bones; brought nearer together ; and they are carried away from each other on the opposite aspect. The right inferior articular surface glides down, and the left up, in the joints wdth the vertebra beneath. On the right side the ligaments will be relaxed and the inter- ifg^,^,gQt^DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 386 vertebral substance compressed ; and on the left those structures will be tightened so as to check the movement. Rotation: Rotation is the twisting of the bodies of the vertebrae around a vertical axis through their centres, the fore part being turned to movement the right or left, while the lower articular processes glide in the of bones; opposite direction over the upper of the next bone below. The movement will obviously be checked by the tightening of one set of oblique fibres in the intervertebral disc, where A pure rotation of this kind, however, takes place only to a present. small extent in the upper dorsal region ; but in the neck a greater degree of turning movement is permitted in combination with lateral flexion, owing to the conformation of the articular surfaces. In the loins the articular surfaces are so disposed that rotation is impossible.CHAPTER y. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Directions. The dissection of the back may be iiiidertakeu l)y one Directions, student ; or conjointly by the dissectors of the head and upper limbs, the former preparing the neck, and the latter making ready the dorsal and lumbar regions. If the back should be allotted to more than one student, the dis- sector of the upper limb may attend chiefly to the paragraphs marked with an asterisk ; and the dissector of the neck may study specially the paragraphs which are not so marked. But as many of the dissections in the earlier stages require the co-operation of the students employed on the same side of the bod}'^, a general attention should be given to the whole by each. The dissector of the abdomen is to examine the arrangement of the fascia lumborum, after the first layer of the dorsal muscles has been learnt. Position. The body lies with the face downwards ; and the trunk J'^'^j!^^'^" is to be raised by blocks beneath the chest and the pelvis, so that the limbs may hang over the end and sides of the dissecting table. To make tense the neck, the head is to be depressed and fastened with hooks. In this region there are six successive lavers of muscles, amongst Strata iu back. which vessels and nerves are interspersed. Dissection. The first step is to raise the skin in two flaps by J^.J^^^^ means of the following incisions :—One cut is to be made along ' the middle line of the body from the occipital protuberance to the back of the sacrum. Another is to be carried from the last dorsal spine to the acromion process of the scapula. The flap of skin above the last cut is to be turned outwards by the dissectors of the head and upper limb. By a transverse incision opposite the iliac crest, the remaining piece of integument may l^e detached, and reflected by the dissector of the upper limb in the same direction as the upper flap. Beneath the upper flap of skin the trapezius muscle is placed, and under the lower one the latissimus dorsi. The cutaneous nerves may be now sought in the superficial fatty Seek layer : tliey are accompanied by small arteries which will guide the ^^erves*:"^ student to their position. The nerves vary much in size in the c c 2388 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. in tlie neck in thorax and loins ; sacral. Cutaneous nerves liow derived. In the neck Seeon( I and third nerves. In the dor- sal region : upper nerves lower nerves. In the loins Two mus- cles in first layer. Dissection. different parts of the back, and tlieir number is also irregular: as a general rule, there is one opposite each vertebra except in the neck. To find them in the cervical region, look near the middle line, from the 3rcl to the 6th vertebra, and trace an offset from the third nerve upwards to the head : the branch of the second nerve (great occipital) has been laid bare at the back of the head (p. 5). Over the upper part of the thorax, they will be found near the spines of the vertebrae, where they lie at first beneath the fat; Init at the lower part, and in the loins, they issue in a line with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves are included in the dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegumentary nerves are derived from the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves, which divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and outer. Arteries accompany the greater numljer of the nerves, bifurcate like them, and furnish cutaneous offsets. Cervical nerves. In the neck the nerves are derived from the inner of the two branches into which the posterior trunks divide : they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the head. They are four in number, and come from the second, third, fourth, and fifth nerves. The branch of the second nerve is named great occipital, and ac- companies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 8). The branch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset to the neck, and then ascends to the lower part of the head, where it is distributed near the middle line, communicating with the great occipital nerve (p. 8). * Dorsal nerves. These are furnished by both the inner and outer branches—the upper six or seven from the inner, and the lower five or six from the outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. The uyper nerves perforate the trapezius near the spines of the vertebra3 ; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, extends outwards over the scapula. The lower nerves 23ierce the latissimus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs ; the number of the superficial offsets from these nerves often varies. * Lumbar nerves. In the loins the nerves are derived from the outer branches of the first three trunks ; they perforate the latissi- mus dorsi muscle at the outer border of the erector spinjB, and cross- ing the iliac crest of the hip-bone, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock. * First Layer op Muscles (fig. 130). Two muscles, the trape- zius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer. Dissection. The superficial fatty layer and the unimportant deep fascia are to be removed together from the trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the shoulder to the spinal column ; and the upper limb is to be carried back-389 TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE. Avarcls or forwards according as it may be necessary to put on the .stretch different portions of the muscles. Some of the cutaneous nerves and vessels may be left in order that the base towards tlie spine, but the two have a trapezoid form. The muscle has an extensive origin, by short tendinous fibres, from the origiu; spines of all the dorsal and the seventh cervical vertebrae, and their supraspinous ligament, from the ligamentum nucha?, and from the * Muscles of the back. On the left side the first layer is shown, and on the right side the second layer, with part of the third, a. Ti-apezius. B. Latissimus dorsi. c. Levator anguli scapuljp. D. Rhomboideus minor. E. Rhomboidens major, f. Splenius. g, Serratus posticus inferior.890 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. insertion relatiouh use, scapula free to glide, m rotation of bono. Trace spinal accessory. Spinal accessory nerve in trapezius. Dissection to reflect trapezius; to prepare parts in the neck. Clean the scapular muscles. Parts covered hy trapezius. Ligamentum nucha. inner third of tlie superior curved line of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, converging to the shoulder, and are inserted into the outer third of the clavicle, at its posterior aspect, into the inner border of the acromion, and into the upper border of the sjoine of the scapula as far as an inch from the root of that process, as well as into a rough prominence on the lower margin of the spine near the inner end. The muscle is subcutaneous. At the outer side the lowest fleshy fibres end in a small triangular tendon, which glides over the smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The uj)p^^' edge forms the hinder boundary of the posterior triangular space of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds with the origin of the deltoid muscle. Action. If all the fibres of the muscle act, the scapula gliding on the ribs is moved upwards and towards the spinal column ; but the upper fibres can assist other muscles in elevating, and the lower fibres will helj:) in depressing that bone. When the scapula is prevented from gliding on the ribs, the trape- zius imparts a rotatory movement to it, and raises the acromion. Dissection. The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided hear the scapula, over the situation of the spinal accessory nerve, so that the ramifications of that nerve beneath the muscle, and its junction with the branches of the cervical plexus may be observed. A small artery to the trapezius (superficial cervical) accompanies the nerve. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE (p. 112), having crossed the pos- terior triangle of the neck, passes beneath the trapezius, and forms a plexiform union with branches of the third and fourth nerves of the cervical j^lexus. The nerve can be followed nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Dissection. To see the parts covered by the trapezius, the pieces of the divided muscle are to be thrown inwards and outwards. The dissector of the neck should now clean the splenius, and define the things beneath the clavicle, viz., the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle with the suprascapular nerve and vessels, as well as the transverse cervical vessels, and the small nerves to the levator anguli scapulae and rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached along the middle line, the ligamentum nucha;, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. * The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulae muscles, which are fixed to the base of the scapula; and while this is being done, the scapuhi is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fleshy fibres. * Parts covered hy the trapezius. The trapezius conceals in the neck the splenius, a small part of the comj)lexus, and the levator anguli scapulae ; in the dorsal region it covers the rhomboidei, the erector spinse, and the latissimus dorsi. Near the insertion it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The LIGAMENTUM NUCH^ is a narrow fibrous band, which extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the ex- ternal occipital protuberance. From its deep surface a thin layerLATISSIMUS DORSI MUSCLE. 391 of fibres, wliicli forms a median partition between the mnscles of the , two sides of the neck, is sent forwards to be attached to the externa] occipital crest and the other cervical spines. The LATISSIMUS DORSi (fig. 130, b) is the widest muscle of the Latissimus back, and is thin and aponeurotic at its attachment to the spine and or^^n'from pelvis. It arises along the middle line from the spinous processes of sp'»e, the six lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and the upper sacral vertebrae, as well as from the supraspinous ligament. On the outer side it pelvis, arises from the posterior half of the outer edge of the iliac crest by its aponeurosis, and from the lowest three or four ribs by as many and ribs; lleshy processes, which interdigitate with slips of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. And in many bodies it receives another fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scaj^ula. The fibres art- directed outwards and upwards, converging rapidly; and the muscle, much reduced in breadth, turns round the lower border of the teres major, to be inserted by tendon into the bottom of the bicipital insertion groove of the humerus (p. 261). rus" The muscle is superficial, except at the upper and inner part, relations: where it is covered to a small extent by the trapezius. Fartlier out there is a space between the two, in which the rhomboid and infra- spinatus muscles appear. The outer border overlaps the edge of the external oblique muscle in the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest. The aponeurosis of the latissimus is in its lower part incorporated in the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum, of which it forms the chief constituent. Action. If the arm is hanging loose, the muscle can move it use, behind the back, rotating it in at the same time. If the limb is i[mMs^ree raised, the latissimus, combining with the large pectoral and teres muscles, will depress the humerus. Supposing the arm fixed, the latissimus assists the pectoralis ami tixed. major in drawing the moveable trunk towards the humerus, as in the act of climbing. * Dissection. The latissimus is to be divided about midway Dissection between the spines of the vertebra3 and the angle of the scapula, lati^s^simus. and the pieces are to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner half of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy either the thin lower serratus, with which it is united, or the aponeurosis continued upwards from the serratus. In the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest the latissimus is adherent to the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and should not be detached from it. * Parts covered by the latissimus. The latissimus dorsi lies on the Parts be- erector spinas, the serratus posticus inferior, the lower ribs with their simus. intercostal muscles, and the lower angle of the scapula, with parts of the rhomboideus major, infraspinatus, and teres major muscles. Nearer the humerus it turns round the teres major, and is placed in . , front of that muscle at its insertion. In passing from the chest to the arm, the latissimus forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. Dissection of fascia lumhoi'um. After the latissimus dorsi has been DissectionDISSECTION OF THE BACK. 392 of fascia lumborum, to show three layers in it,— posterior, midclle, and anterior. Lumbar fascia, derived from trans versalis tendon, consists of three layei'S: anterior. and middle to transverse processes; posterior to spinous processes. refiected, the dissector of the abdomen can look to the disposition of the fascia liimboriim between the last rib and the hip-bone. In the spot referred to are portions of the external and internal oblique muscles, left in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen. After the removal of those muscles, the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves : one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib ; and the other, the ilio-hypogastric, with its vessels close to the iliac crest. Three layers of the fascia lumborum are to be demonstrated, passing from the aponeurosis of the transversalis to the spinal column. The superficial layer is already exposed, being formed mainly l)y the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. To see the middle layer, which passes beneath the erector spinse to the trans- verse processes, the first layer is to be diA'ided, with the attached jDortion of the latissimus dorsi, by a horizontal incision carried out- wards from the third lumbar spine. On raising the outer border of the erector spinse muscle, which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After cutting in the same way through this j^rolongation, another muscle, the quadratus lumborum, will be seen ; and on raising its outer border, the thin deepest layer of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The FASCixV LUMBORUM or LUMBxVR APONEUROSIS occupies the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest, and extends inwards to the spine. It is formed mainly l^y the posterior tendon of the transversalis muscle of the abdominal wall (fig. 151, c), but its superficial part receives important accessions from two of the muscles of the back. If the tendon of the transversalis be followed inwards, it will be found to divide at the outer edge of the (_[uadratus lumborum into two layers, which encase that muscle ; and the posterior of these again splits, or gives off a superficial j)rocess, at the outer margin of the erector spinas. There are thus in the lumbar aponeurosis three layers of membrane, forming with the vertebrae two sheaths, the one of which encloses the quadratus lumborum, and the other the multifidus and erector spinas muscles. The anterior layer is thin, and passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus lumborum to be fixed to the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae near their tips. The middle layer is the direct continuation of the transversalis tendon, and lies between the quadratus lumborum and the erector spinae muscles ; it is fixed to the extremities of the transverse processes. The posterior or superficial layer is the thickest, and is attached internally to the spines of the lumbar vertebrae. In this layer are united the aponeuroses of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior muscles, with only a small offset of the tendon of the transversalis. Second Layer op Muscles (fig. 130). This stratum containsMUSCLES OF SECOND LAYER. 393 the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small Second rhomboid muscles : besides these, the posterior belly of the omo- layer.^ hyoid muscle, and some vessels and nerves directed outwards towards the scapula, are now to be examined. The parts referred to have been prepared in the dissection following the reflection of the trapezius (p. 390). * The LEVATOR ANGULi SCAPULA (fig. 130, c) arises by tendinous Elevator of slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the geapuia upper four cervical vertebra?. The fibres form an elongated muscle, attach- which is inserted into the base of the scapula between the spiue and "lents; the superior angle. At its origin the levator lies beneath the sterno-mastoid, and at relations; its insertion beneath the trapezius, where it meets the serratus magnus muscle ; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles, viz., splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens. Action. The muscle raises the angle and hinder part of the ami use, scapula, and depresses the acromion ; l)ut in combination w^th the scapui^^. upper fibres of the trapezius, which prevent the rotation down of the acromion, it shrugs the shoulder. When the shoulder is fixed, the neck can l;)e hent to the side by on the nock, the levator'. * Rhomboidei muscles. The muscular laver of the rhomboidei Riiomboid ^ . ♦ ■ muscles cive is attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces, two. large and small, which are usually separated l)y a slight interval. "^^ Tlie RiiOMBOiDEUS MINOR (fig. 130, d) is a thin narrow band, Small which arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrai, and the ligamentum nucliee, and is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine. * The RHOMBOIDEUS MAJOR (fig. 130, e) is much larger than the Large preceding muscle. It arises from the spines of four or five dorsal ^" vertebra) below- the rhomboideus minor, and from the supraspinous '^"''"^' ligament ; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the insertion, lower angle. Sometimes the upper fibres are not fixed to the scapula directly, but end on a tendinous arch near the l)one. The rhomboidei are for the most part covered by the trapezius Relations, and latissinius ; l)ut a portion of the larger muscle is subcutaneous near the scapula. Action. From the direction of their fibres both rhomboidei will use, by draw the base of the scapula upwards and backwards, so as to de- ^vj|i"otheTs press the acromion. In combination with the traj^ezius they carry the scapula directly back; and acting with the serratus magnus they serve to fix the scapula. The OMO-HYOID MUSCLE cousists of two fleshy bellies, anterior Posterior and posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Only hyoiliT^'"^' the posterior half is now seen. The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind origin, the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a fora-DISSECTION OF THE EACK. 394 and termi- nation ; relations; Supra- scapular artery : (;ourse to slioulder ; offset. yupra- sca[tular nerve. Tran.sverse cervical artery divides into superficial cervical and posterior scapular. Acconipany ing veins. Nerve of rhomboid muscles. Third layer of muscles. Dissection. men. The fibres form a tliiii, riband-like muscle, wliicli is directed forwards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid (p. 64). This belly is partly placed beneath the trapezius, and is partly superficial in the pos- terior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery, and crosses the brachial plexus and the suprascapular nerve. Action. For the use of the muscle, see i^age 65. The SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY, a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), is directed outwards through the lower part of the neck to the upper border of the scapula. It runs behind the clavicle, and crosses the suprascapular ligament in front of the omo-hyoicl muscle, to enter the supraspinous fossa. Its termination on the dorsum of the scapula is seen in the dissection of the shoulder (p. 274). Before entering the fossa it gives off a sn.pra-acromial hranch, which perforates the trajDezius muscle, and ramifies over the acromion. The SUPRASCAPULAR XERVE is an ofi'set of the brachial plexus (p. 74), and inclines downwards beneath the omo-hyoicl muscle to the notch in the upper border of the scapula, through which it passes into the supraspinous fossa (p. 274). The TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY, also a branch of the sul)- clavian (p. 70), has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards the upper angle of the scapula, but is higher than the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into two branches— sujierficiaL cervical and posterior scapular. a. The siq^erjicial cervical branch is distributed chiefi}' to the under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes ofi'sets to the levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. b. The posterior scajmlar branch crosses under the levator anguli scax^ulse, and descends along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles. If these muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them, and to give small anastomotic twigs to l)oth surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises very fre- quently from the third part of the subclavian trunk. The suprascapular and transverse cervical veins ha^'e the same course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender offset of the brachial plexus (p. 73) courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhomboidei on their deep surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. Third Layer of Muscles. In this stratum are included the serratus posticus superior and inferior. Dissection. By reflecting the rhomboid muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing loose areolar tissue, the thin upper serratus muscle beneath them will be laid bare. The inferior serratus has been previously exposed by the reflectiois of the latissimus.395 SERRATI POSTICI MUSCLES. * Tlie SERRATi MUSCLES are very tliin, and receive tlieir name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in mirnber, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins from the spines of the vertebrae. Tlie SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR (fig. 131, a) civises from the ligamentum nuchse, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical, and upper two or three dorsal vertebrae, with the supra- spinous ligament. The fleshy fibres are inclined down and out, and are inserted by slijjs into four ribs, from the second Fi?. 131." to the fifth, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is co- vered by the rhomboidei, except at its upper border. * The SERRATUS POSTI- CUS INFERIOR (fig. 130, G) is wider than the j)receding muscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and with the fascia lumborum, and is connected to the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and ujjper two or three lumbar vertebra?. The fleshy fibres ascend somewhat to be inserted into the last four ril)s outside their angles, each successive piece extending further forwards than the one below. This muscle lies on the mass of the erector spinae ; the vertebral ai:)oneurosis is united. Action. Both serrati are inspiratory muscles. The upper one raises the ribs into which it is inserted; while the lower one draws backwards the lower ribs, and prevents their being carried upwards by the contraction of the diaphragm. The VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS is a thin fascia A\diich covers the fourth layer of muscles in the thoracic region. Internally it is attached to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. Externally it is fixed to the angles of the ribs ; and in the intervals between the bones it joins the layer of connective tissue covering the intercostal * Pai-t of the third and fourth layei's of the muscles of the back. a. Serratus posticus superior, b. Splenius capitis, c. Splenius colli, d. Continuation of the ilio-costalis. e. Longissimus dorsi. F. Spinalis dorsi. Serrati are two in number. The upper the smaller attacli- ments: insertion and with the upper border of its tendon Use of serrati. Vertebral' aponeu- rosis : attache. ments.;396 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. continvia- muscles. It is continuous below with the tendon of the serratus and above.' posticus inferior, and through this with the superficial layer of the fascia lumborum ; but above, it passes beneath the upper serratus, and blends with the deep intermuscular fascia of the neck. The strongest fibres of the membrane are directed transversely. Muscles of ^ Fourth Layer of Muscles. This comprises the splenius fourth layer. j^^^g(>^Q g^j^^j ^j^g erector spinse, with its divisions and accessory muscles to the neck. Dissection. Dissection. The ujoper serratus is to be cut through, and the vertebral aponeurosis taken away ; and the -part of the splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. In turning outwards the fleshy part of the serratus, slender twigs of the intercostal nerves, which perforate the external intercostal muscle accompanied by small arteries, may be found entering its slips. Splenius has The SPLENIUS MUSCLE (fig. 131) is flat and elongated. Single two parts: origin, it is divided alcove into two parts, one passing to the head—splenius capitis, and the other to the neck—splenius colli. It arises from the upper six dorsal and the seventh cervical spines, and from the ligamentum nuchse as high as the third cervical vertebra. The fibres are directed upwards and outwards to their insertion. one to the The spleuius colli (c) is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- iieck, terior transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebrae with, but behind, the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula, tiie other to The spUnius capitis (b), much the larger, is inserted into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, and into the outer third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, relations. The muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the skull is beneath the sterno-mastoid. The complexus muscle appears above the upper border of the splenius capitis. The splenius represents the pro- longation to the upper cervical vertebrae and head of the outer portion of the erector spinae. Use of A ction. The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head capltis^^ directly back ; and one will incline and rotate the head to the same side. splenius The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical vertebrae ; but one muscle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. Divide Dissection (fig. 132). The splenius is to be detached from the and"seek ^pinous processes, and thrown outwards. In doing this, small nerves. branches from the external divisions of the posterior cervical nerves to the pieces of the muscle are to be looked for. Define otf- And while the erector spinae is being displayed in the dorsal and the^erector ^^^^^^^^ regions by the dissector of the upper limb, two prolongations spinse. from it to the cervical vertebrae and the head are to be defined by the dissector of the neck :—One, a thin narrow muscle, the cervicalis ascendens, is continued beyond the ribs from the outer piece of theERECTOR SPIN^. 397 erector (ilio-costalis), and is to be separated from the inuscles around. The other is a larger offset of the inner piece of the erector (longis- simus dorsi) ; single at first where it is united with the fibres of the longissimus, it is divided afterwards, like the splenius, into a cranial part (trachelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (transversalis colli). * The serratus inferior is to be detached from the spines and Show the thrown outwards, when fine nerves will be found entering it like spjnse and its those to the upper muscle. The superficial layer of the fascia divisions, lumborum is also to be removed, and the areolar tissue is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spinse which now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is an inter- muscular interval, which divides the erector spince into an outer piece (ilio-costalis), and an inner (longissimus dorsi). By sinking nio- the knife into this interval the sacro-lumbalis may be turned out-^"'^'•'^^•'^^^ • wards, so as to uncover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the ribs : a muscular sli]» (cervicalis its offset to ascendens) is prolonged from this to the neck. ^^'^ '''' In preparing the ilio-costalis muscle, the external branches of Vessels and the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries will appear. nerves. * The attachments of the longissimus dorsi are then to be traced Longissimus out. Externally it has thin muscular slips of insertion into about the lower nine ribs, and thicker processes passing to the transverse outer processes of the lumbar vertebrce ; the latter may be shown by raising the outer border of the erector, and clearing away the fat between it and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum. Intei-nally the longissimus is inserted into the transverse processes of the dorsal, ami inner and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae by rounded ^'i^^''*^^""* • tendons ; and to see these it will be necessary to detach a thin tendinous and muscular portion of the erector (spinalis dorsi) from spinalis the inner side of the longissimus, and to divide longitudinally the ^^^^^^' part of the thick aponeurosis springing from the lumbar spines, so as to separate the erector from the subjacent multifidus spina?, f'ffsets to the From the longissimus, as from the ilio-costalis, a fleshy piece (trans- A^ersalis colli and trachelo-mastoid) is continued into the neck. Between the longissimus and the multifidus spinae are the in- Vessels and ternal branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal and lumbar nerves, witli offsets of the intercostal and lumbar vessels. * Erector Spin.-e. This is the muscular mass on the side of the Erector spine, extending from the lower part of the sacrum to the head. It single is single and pointed below, attains it greatest size in the loins, and ^^low, over the thorax becomes divided into secondary portions to which special names are given. Its prolongations to the neck and head ^^^1^^^^'?^^ are very slender. On its posterior surface, in the lumbar and sacral 'gypgrflgj.j, regions, is a strong flat tendon of origin, from which most of the tendon; fleshy fibres spring. The muscle arises internally from the lower two or three dorsal, and all the lumbar and sacral spines ; externally origin, from the posterior fifth of the iliac crest at the inner aspect; and inferiorly from the lower part of the back of the sacrum. Below the last rib it divides into the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi ; and in the thoracic region the spinalis dorsi is given oft' from the inner side of the latter part.DISSECTIOX OF THE BACK. 398 Ilio- costal is : Acees- sorius: origin ; insertion. Cervicalis ascendens : origin; insertion. Longissimns dorsi: double insertion; is continued to neck Ijv transversalis colli. and to head by trachelo- niastoid. Spinalis dorsi: Relations of erector in lumbar and dorsal regions; and i}i neck, ^ The ILIO-C08TALIS or sacro-lumbalis is derived from tlie outer and superficial part of the common mass of the erector in the loins. Its fibres end in six or seven tendons, which are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. It is continued to the upper ribs and the neck by the two following muscles :— * The ACCE8S0RIUS (musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem ; fig. 131, d) arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy slips from the anofles of the lower six ribs internal to the insertion of the ilio- o costalis; and it ends in tendons which are inserted, into the remain- incr ribs in a line with the ilio-costalis, and into tlie transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The CERVICALIS ASCEXDEXS is a muscular slip prolonging the accessorius intxj the neck : it arises from four ribs, viz., the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the sixth, fifth, and fourth cervical vertebrte. The LOXGissiMUS dorsi is the largest of the pieces resulting from the di^-ision of the erector spince, and has two sets of insertions into the vertebra3 and ribs. Internally it gives off a series of fleshy and tendinous bundles to the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrte : externally it is attached by thick fleshy slips to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebroe, and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum ; and by thin flattened processes to the ribs, except the first two or three, between the tuberosity and angle. Its muscular prolongation to the neck is united with the upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two following pieces :— The TRANSVERSALIS COLLI (fig. 132, b) arises from the transverse processes of the upper dorsal vertebrte (from four to six), and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae except the first and last. The TRACHELO-iiASTOiD MUSCLE (trausversalis capitis ; fig. 132, c) arises in common with the preceding, and receives additional slips from the articular processes of the lower three or four cer-vical vertebrae. It is inserted beneath the splenius capitis into the j^osterior margin of the mastoid process, where it is about three (j^uarters of an inch wide. ^ The SPINALIS DORSI is very narrow, and springs from the tendinous slips of the erector which arise from the lower dorsal and upper two or three lumbar spines. Its fibres are inserted into a variable number (from four to nine) of the upper dorsal spines. ^ Relations of the erector simue. The erector spinas is concealed by the muscles of the layers already examined. It lies over the semispinalis and multifidus spinse muscles, portions of the ribs and external intercostal muscles, and the levatores costarum. In the loins it is contained in an aponeurotic sheath of the fascia lum- borum (p. 392) ; and in the thoracic region a similar sheath is formed for the muscle by the vertebral aj^oneurosis with the ribs and dorsal vertebrae. The tendon of origin is united over the sacrum with the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum ; nnd from its outer border in this part some fibres of the gluteus maximus arise. The prolongations of the muscle in the neck lie between the399 ACTION OF ERECTOR SPINJ^. splenius and levator aiiguli scapulae on the outer side and the com- plexus on the inner side, the trachelo-mastoid being next to the complexus. The cervicalis ascendens is attached to the transverse processes in a line with the splenius colli, and immediately behind the middle and posterior scalene muscles, * Action of erector sinnce. These powerful muscles draw backwards Use of botii or extend tlie spine, and come into play in bringing the column ^^^^ Fig. 132.* into, and in maintaming the erect position. The parts inserted into the dorsal vertebrae will be to some extent inspiratory muscles, since tlie dilatation of the thorax is aided by extension of the verte- ]3ral column ; but the slips inserted into the ribs will draw down- wards these bones, and may thus act in forced expiration. The muscle of one side acting alone will incline the spine laterally. The cervical prolongations liave a similar action upon the neck and head. ^ Fifth Layer of Muscles. In this layer are included the * Dissection of the muscles beneath the spleniu?. a. Longissimus dorsi. B. Transversalis colli. c. Trachelo-mastoid, d. ComiDlexus. f. Splenius capitis, cut, g. Splenius colli, cut. H. Semispinalis dorsi. a. Occipital artery. 1. Great occipital nerve. 2, External branch of the second nerve. 3, Outer branch of the third nerve. of one muscle, and of portions in neck. Muscles of lifth layer.400 DISSECTIOJ^ OF THE BACK. Dissection of comi)lexus. Complexus: origin; insertion tendinous inter- sections ; relations; Dissection of tlie nei-ves of the neck: inner and outer branches; first nerve; complexus, the semispinalis, and tlie multifidiis spin£)e. Most of the vessels and nerves of the back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection. To display the complexus it will only be necessary to turn outwards the cervical prolongations of the erector spinse muscle, and follow down the slips of origin to the dorsal transverse processes. The semispinalis and multifidus are partly seen now below the complexus, lying between the erector spina3 and the spines of the vertebrae. The COMPLEXUS (fig. 132, d) is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal and seventh cervical vertebrse, and from the articu- lar processes of the succeeding cervical vertebrce as high as the third : it is also joined in most cases by one or two slips from the lowest cervical or upper dorsal spines. The fleshy fibres pass upwards to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the external occipital crest. The inner part of the complexus, having two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon, is often described separately as the biventer cervicis. Another tendinous intersection crosses the cutaneous surface of the muscle near the upper end. The complexus is concealed by the splenius and trapezius. Along the inner side is tlie semispinalis muscle, M'ith the ligamentum nuehse. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispinalis, and the posterior cervical nerves and vessels ; and the cutaneous offsets of two or three of the nerves perforate it. The complexus may be regarded as the cranial prolongation of the semispinalis muscle. Action. Both muscles will move the head directly back. One will draw the occiput down and back towards its own side. Dissection of vessels and nerves (tig. 133). In the neck the nerves and vessels will be brought into view by detaching the complexus from the occipital bone and the spines of the vertebia?, and raising it carefully from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle are the ramifications of the cervical nerves, and the deep cervical aiid other vessels, surrounded by dense connective tissue. Each nerve, except the first, divides into an inner and an outer branch. Dissect out first the inner branches, w^hich lie partly over and j)firtly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle (g). The external branches are very small, and are given off between the transverse processes close to where the trunks appear; they are to be looked for outside the complexus, entering the muscles prolonged from the erector spinse and the splenius. The small first nerve is the most difficult of the set to find : it is a short trunk, contained in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and will be best found by looking for the small twics furnished bv it to the muscles around.POSTEEIOR CERYICAL NERVES. 401 Tlie deep cervical artery is met with on tlie semispinalis muscle ; and t\w a part of tlie vertebral artery will be found in contact with the first ^ ''^^^^^ • nerve ; and the occipital artery will be visible crossing the occipital bone. ^ Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels will be readily nerves and displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the the'^dorsai removal of a little fatty tissue from between the transverse pro- i^egion; cesses. External and internal branches are to be traced from each nerve and vessel into the muscles : some of the former have been seen in the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi. The two l^ranches of the lumbar nerves and vessels are in in the lum- the same line as the dorsal ; but the inner set are difficult to find. ^®sion. ^" The sacral nerves are placed beneath the multifidus spina), and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 408). Posterior Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The Posterior spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cervical and sacral groups, spina/ ^ ^ divide in the intervertebral foramina into their anterior and posterior nerves, primary branches. The posterior supply the integuments and the muscles of the back, and are now to be learnt. In the neck. The posterior primary divisions of the cervical in tiie neck nerves are eight in number, and issue between the transverse pro- cesses ; but those of the first and second, which begin on the neural arches of the atlas and axis, appear above those arches. All, except they divitie the first, divide into internal and external branches. exceprtirst. The external hrcmches (fig. 132) are very small, and end in the External splenitis, and in the muscles prolonged from the erector spin^e. ^^^sniait The internal branches [fig. 133) are larger than the external; they jj^^g^-j^j^j are directed towards the spinous processes, the lower three passing branches: Ijeneath the semispinalis, and the up2)er fotir over that muscle. By the side of the spines cutaneous branches are furnished to the neck so"ie give and the head from the nerves that are superficial to the semispinalis: offsets, these cutaneous offsets ascend to the surface through the splenitis, the complextis, and the trapezius muscles, and are distributed as before seen (p. 388). In their course the nerves supply the surrounding muscles, viz., coniplexus, semispinalis, multifidus spinoe, and iiiter- s])inales. The cutaneous branches of the second and third nerves reach the head, and require a separate notice. That of the second nerve (fig. 133,^), named great occipital, '''P'^g^gj^^-jl ^-^ pears beneath the inferior oblique muscle, to which it gives offsets, head, and is directed upwards through the complextis and trapezius to end on the occiput (p. 8). The l)ranch of the third nerve (fig. 133,') becoming superficial Third near the middle line, gives an offset upwards to the lower part of neckband the occiput, internal to the preceding (p. 388). This nerve usually ^'^^d- joins the great occipital twice, viz., beneath the complexus and superficial to the trapezius. The loosterior primary division of the suboccipital or first spinal First nerve nerve (fig. 133,^) is very short, and appears in the interval betweenDISSECTION OF THE BACK. 402 the recti and obliqiii muscles. In parsing from the spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery. From its extremity branches radiate to the surrounding muscles, viz., one to the upper part of the complexus, another to the rectus posticus major and minor, and two short branches to the obliquus superior and inferior: the offset to the last muscle joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally the hrst nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the occiput, Dorsal '-^ Ix THE DORSAL REGiox. The posterior primary divisions of )iei\es. ^1^^ dorsal nerves, twelve in number, appear between the transverse |)rocesses, and bifurcate into internal and external branches. * Deep dissection of the back of the neck. (Illustrations of Dissections,) Muscles : A. Rectus posticus major, b. Rectus posticus minor, c. Obliquus inferior, n. Obliquus superior. E. Sterno-mastoid. r. Complex us, cut across. G. Semispinalis colli. Arteries : a. Occipital, and b, its cervical branch, c. Vertebral artery, and d, its cervical branch, e. Deep cervical. Nerves: 1. Posterior branch of the suboccipital. 2 to 7. Inner branches of the posterioi- primary divisions of the respective cervical nerves.POSTERIOR CERVICAL VESSELS. * The external branches increase in size from above downwards, Outer and pass beneatli the longissimiis dorsi to the interval between that erector^^ muscle and the ilio-costalis, distributing offsets to the several spinse: divisions of the erector spinas. The branches of the iq^per six or seven nerves end in these muscles ; but the lower five or six, after reaching tlie interval between the longissimus and ilio-costalis, are lower ones continued to the surface through the serratus and latissimus muscles, cutaneous, nearly in a line with the angles of the ribs. * The internal branches are larger above than below, and supply Inner the transverso-spinales muscles. The u^oijer six or seve^i are directed transvei^o-' inwards between the semispinalis and multifidus spinse, and become spinaies : cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes, after perforating the J^m^er ones splenius, serratus superior, rhomboideus, and trapezius muscles, surface. The loiver five or six ar(^ much smaller, and end in the multifidus .spinae. * In the loixs. The posterior primary branches of the lumbar Lumbar nerves, five in number, appear between the erector and multifidus divided intr> spinse. In their mode of dividing and general arrangement they resemble the lower dorsal nerves, cutaneous offsets being furnished by the external set of branches. * The external branches pass to the erector spinas, and supply it External and the intertransverse muscles. The first three pierce the erector ^^^^"^^^^^ • spinoe, and become cutaneous after perforating the posterior layer of f.econle^^'^ the fascia lumborum. The Ijrancli of the last nerve is connected cutaneous, with the corresponding jiart of the first sacral nerve by an offset near the bones. * The internal branches are furnished to the multifidus spina) internal muscle. They are difficult to find, being contained in grooves on ^I'^^^'^i^^*'- the upper articular processes. * Vessels in the ]3A.ck. The vessels now dissected are the Vessels, occipital and the deep cervical arteries, a small part of the vertebral, and the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries. The OCCIPITAL ARTERY (fig. 133, «) courscs along the occipital Part of the bone. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is arterv^'^' directed backwards under the sterno-mastoid, the splenius, and usually the trachelo-mastoid, but over the obliquus superior and coniplexus muscles. Behind the insertion of the sterno-mastoid it becomes superficial, and ascends to the occiput, where it is dis- tributed (p. 6). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and gives the Aviiich following branch to the neck :— ^^^'^^ ^ The cervical branch (b) distributes twigs to the splenius and trapezius, and passing beneath the complexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The VERTEBRAL ARTERY (fig. 133, c) lies on the neural arch of P^'^'* of tiie the atlas, behind the articulating process, and appears in the interval artery, between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the sub- occipital nerve. Small branches are given to the surrounding muscles, and to anastomose with the contiguous arteries. The DEEP CERVICAL ARTERY (fig. 133, e) is a branch of the SUpe- Deep cervi- cal artei-v. D D 2DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 404 Dorsal arteries are siilit into inner and i)uter l>ranches and give a spinal branch. Lumbar arteries are also divided intc inner and outer branches. Occipital Deep cervi- cal vein, and plexus of back of neck. Beginning of vertebral vein. Dorsal and lumbar, and deep veins. Transver.so- spinales: arrange- ment, rior intercostal of tlie subclavian (p. *71). Passing Lack between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and tlie neck of tlie lirst rib, it ascends between the complexus and semispinalis muscles^ as high as the upper border of the latter, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. ^' The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES (p. 370) pass back between the vertebrae and the ascending costo- transverse ligament, and divide like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. * The internal branches end in the Heshy mass of the multifidus spinse and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets with the nerves. The external tranches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest and extend to the surface. As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intrasjnnal artery to the spinal canal (p. 420). The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES divide,, like the foregoing, into internal and external pieces, as soon as tliey reach the interval between the erector and multifidus sjriinre. Each- gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. * The internal branches are small, and end in the multifidup^ spina;. ^ The external branches supply the erector sj)inne ; and offsets are continued to the integuments with the superficial nerves. Veins. The occijntal veins communicate usually with the lateral sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen, and pass beneath the complexus to enter the deep cervical vein. The dee2J cervical vein is of large size, and besides receiving the- occipital veins, communicates with the other deep veins of this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck. It jjasses for- wards with its artery between the transverse processes, and joins- the vertebral vein. The vertebral vein begins above the neural arch of the atlas by the union of an offset leaving the spinal canal with the artery and branches from the above-mentioned plexus. * The dorsal and lumbar veins agree in their branching and distri- bution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the correspond- ing trunks of the thoracic and abdominal wall. In contact with the spinous processes and laminae of the vertebrae is a deeper set of veins {dorsal spinal), which anastomose freely together, and communicate through the ligamenta subflava with the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. ^ Transverso-Spinales. Occupying the vertebral groove by the side of the spinous processes is a long muscular mass, which extends from the lower part of the sacrum to the axis. This is composed of slips which are directed obliquely from transverse or articular pro-405 MULTIFIDUS SPINtE. cesses to spinous processes, and are therefore designated collectively transverso-spinales. The slips differ in length, and form three layers, which are described as separate muscles, viz., a superficial sub- stratum of long slips, confined to the cervical and dorsal regions— ^"^'^^'on^. the seniispinalis ; a middle portion, with slips of intermediate length—the niultifidus spina3; and a deep set of very short fasci- culi, present only in tlie thoracic region—the rotatores dorsi. The semispinalis and niultifidus are only to be separated with difficulty ; but the rotatores are more distinct, and are included in the next layer. The SEMiSPiNAiJS consists of slips which pass over four or five Semispiuaiis vertebrae, and is su1)divided into the following two parts, but the jfito^^^^^ separation between them is not always distinct. The semisjmialis dorsi is thinner than the upper part : it arises jiemispinaiis from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrse from the sixth ^^^^^ to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of last two cervical and upper four dorsal vertebra). The semispinal is colli (fig. 133, g) arises from the transverse and semispi- processes of the upper six dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the ^^^^'^ .spines of the cervical vertebra) above the last, the atlas not receiving any slip. Dissection. The upper part of the niultifidus sjDina) is to be pre- Dissection pared by the dissector of the head and neck. It will be exposed by tiu^spina- cutting through the insertion of the semispinalis, and turning aside tliat muscle. ^ Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosis of the erector spiiite must be removed. In the dorsal region the niultifidus spinas will appear on detaching and refiecting the semispinalis from the spines. The slips by which the muscle is attached to the processes of the vertebrae should be defined and separated. The MULTIFIDUS SPiNzE reaches from the sacrum to the axis : , it is larger below than above, and is smallest in the upper dorsal spinai region. It takes origin at the pelvis from the back of the sacrum from pelvis. l)etween the spines and the external row of processes as low as the fourth aperture, from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, from the inner side of the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and from the overlying tendon of the erector spinas ; in the loins it arises by large froiuiuinku-, fasciculi from the mamillary processes of the vertebras ; in the '^'^^'^^^^ ^^'^^ dorsal region by thinner slips from the transverse processes ; and in the neck from the articular processes of the lower four cervical . vertebrae. From these attachments the fibres are directed obliquely upwards and inwards, passing over from one to three vertebrae, to be inserted into the spinous processes from the axis to the last insertion lumbar vertebra. into spines. * The transverso-spinales are entirely concealed by the erector Relations of ,, ,, IT - transverso- spmae and complexus muscles ; and beneath them are the laminae spinaies; of the vertebras, with the dorsal spinal plexus of veins. Internally they rest against the spinous processes and the interspinal muscles. * Action. The transverso-spinales of the two sides acting together and use. will extend the spine ; and the muscles of one side can rotate theDISSECTION OF THE BACK. column in the cervical and doi'sal regions, turning the face in the opposite direction. * Sixth Layer op Muscles. This layer includes a number of short muscles which pass between adjacent vertebrae, or from the first two vertebrae to the head. They are the recti and obliqui capitis, the rotatores dorsi, the interspinales, and the intertrans- versales. Dissection. Between the first two cervical vertebr[e and the occipital bone are the straight and oblique muscles, which are to be fully cleaned. The slips of the nmltifidus spinas are to be detached from the spines of the vertebra3 and turned downwards in order to show the rotatores dorsi in the thoracic region, and the interspinal muscles in the neck and loins. The intertransverse muscles of the lumbar region will be exposed by removing the erector spinoe. The RECTUS CAFiTis POSTICUS MAJOR (tig. 133, a) civises from the side of the 'spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it. The muscle is covered by the complexus, and at its insertion by the obliquus superior. It lies over the 2>osterior arch of the atlas and the ligaments attached to that part of the bone. Action. By the action of both muscles the head will be drawn backwards. One rectus acting alone will rotate, as well as extend the head, turning the face to the same side. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR (fig. 133, b) is a small fan- shaped muscle, lying to the inner side of the preceding. Arising close to the middle line from a slight roughness on the posterior arch of the atlas, it is inserted into the inner third of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and an impression below this. This muscle is deeper than the rectus major : ,it lies over the pos- terior occipito-atlantal ligament. The two small recti correspond to the interspinal muscles between the other vertebrae. Action. The rectus ]3osticus minor extends the head. The OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR (fig. 133, c) is the strongest of the suboccipital muscles. It arises from the spinous process of the axis below the rectus posticus major, and is inserted into the lower and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. The inferior oblique is concealed by the complexus and trachelo- mastoid muscles, and is crossed by the great occijjital nerve. Action. This muscle turns the face to the same side, by rotating the atlas on the axis. The OBLIQUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR (fig. 133, d) arises from the transverse process of the atlas above the insertion of the preceding- muscle, and is directed upwards and inwards to be inserted into the outer part of the space between the curved lines of the occipital bone. The origin of the muscle is beneath the trachelo-mastoid, and its insertion beneath the complexus. In the interval between these it is covered by the splenius. It lies over the vertebral artery and the insertion of the rectus posticus major.407 INTEHSPIJs^OUS AND INTERTRANSYEESE MUSCLES. Action. With its fellow the upper oblique will assist in carrying and use. Ijackwards the head. By the action of one muscle the head will he inclined backwards, and to the same side. Suboccipital triangle (fig. 133). This name is given to the Trianguiiu small spfice which is bounded below by the obliquus inferior muscle, ^ween Uif and above by the rectus posticus major on the inner side, and the muscles: obliquus superior on the outer side. It is covered by the com- plexus ; and its floor is formed by the neural arch of the atlas, with tlie posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. In it are seen a small part contents, of the vertebral artery, and the posterior branch of the suboccipital nerve. The iiOTATOREs DORSi are eleven short muscular slips in the Rotatores dorsal region beneath the multifidus spinte, from which they are "-^"^'^^ • separated by fine areolar tissue. Each arises from the upper and attach- back part of a transverse process, and is inserted into the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The tir^t springs from the transverse process of the second vertebra. The IXTER8PINALES are arranged in pairs in the intervals iuters])iua between the spinous processes. They are most develo}!ed in the ' neck and loins. In tlie cervical region the muscles are small rounded bundles in neck; attached t(» the bifurcated extremities of the spines from tlie axis downwards. * In the dorsal region interspinal muscles are only present in one m dorsal or two of the highest and lowest spaces. ivgion; * III the lumbar region they are thin flat muscles, reaching the in loins; whole length of the spine, one on eacli side of the interspinous ligament. Action. These muscles help to extend the spine. tiieii-use. The INTERTRANSVERSALES lie between the transverse processes inter- of the vertebra3 ; but only those in the loins and the bade are noM' J™isci,^s'^'^ dissected. In the nech they are double, and resemble the interspinal muscles in neck; of the cervical vertebrae (p. 172). In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles of small dorsal size, and are found only between the four or five lower vertebra?. They are represented in the middle spaces by thin fibrous bands, which constitute the so-called intertransverse ligaments (p. 385). ^' In the lumbar region there are two muscles in each space. The in loins; outer set are thin flat muscles between the transverse processes. The inner muscles are rounded bundles in a line with those of the dorsal region ; they are attached to the accessory processes above, and the mamillary processes below ; and the highest is between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrse. Action. The intertransverse muscles assist in bending the spine their use. laterally. * Dissection (fig. 134). To see the posterior divisions of the Dissection sacral nerves, it will be necessary to remove the part of the nerves.' multifidus spina? covering the sacrum. The upper three nerves arc each split into two; their external branches will be foundDISSECTION OF THE BACK. 408 Five sacral nerves. First three have imier and oiiter branches; readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and difficult to lind. The lower two nerves are very small, and do not divide like the others. They are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinoe. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower, by the side of the coccyx. latte give cutaneous offsets. Last two are undivided. Sacral nerves (fig. 134). Fiff. 134. The 2:)osterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in numl)er. Four issue from the spinal canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the common branching into inner and outer pieces, like the other spinal nerves ; but the last two are undivided. The first three nerves (Is, and 3 s) are covered by >pin8e. 'J. s the and divide multifidus regularly. The inner ineces Q) are distri- buted to the multifidus ; the last of this set is very fine. The outer ineces (^) are larger, and have communicating off"sets from one to another on the back of the sacrum ; the branch of the first nerve is also connected v\'itli the corresponding part of the last lumbar; and the branch of the third joins in a similar v/ay tlie sacral nerve next below. After to the surface of the great sacro- a second time, and become cuta- this looping they j^ass outwards sciatic ligament, where they join neous. (Dissection of the buttock.) * Last tivo nerves (4 s and 5 s). These nerves, which are below the multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regular branching of the others : they are connected with each other * Dissection of the posterior sacral nerves. Muscles : a. Multifidus spiiiie, and B. Erector spinse : both cut. c. Gluteus maxinius detached from its origin, and thrown down. d. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Nerves r 5 I. Last lumbar. 1 s to 5 s. The five sacral nerves issuing from the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve escaping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. In- ternal offsets of the last lumbar and first three sacral (these are represented too large). 2. External offsets of the same nerves. 3. Anterior, and 4, posterior primary branch of the coccygeal nerve. 5. The nerve derived from the anterior divisions of the last two sacral and the coccygeal nerves, piercing the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus muscle.409 LEVATORES COSTAEUM MUSCLES. and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the sacrum. A few filaments are distributed over the back of the coccyx. Coccygeal xerve (1 c). Its posterior primary branch issues Coccygeal through the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appears by the side of the coccyx. It is joined in a loop with the last sacral nerve, and ends on the posterior surface of the coccyx. * Sacral arteries. Small branches of the lateral sacral arteries Hman sacral leave the spinal canal with the sacral nerves ; they supply the ''^^^eries. multifidus spina), and anastomose on the back of the sacrum with oflFsets from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. * Dissection. The posterior part of the wall of the thorax may.be Dissection examined before the body is again turned. By removing, opposite mugjies! the ribs, the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi, the small levatores costarum will Ije uncovered. The hinder part of the external inter- costal muscles will be denuded at the same time. * The LEVATORES costarum are twelve small fan-shaped muscles, Levatores which are connected with the hinder parts of tlie ribs. Each, ex- "^"^""^i™" '■ cept the first, arises from tlie tip of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra, and is inserted, the fibres spreading out, into the upper attack- border of tlie rib beneath, from the tuberosity to the angle. The muscles increase in size from above down, and their fibres have the isame direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical Tiie ihst. vertebra, and below to the outer border of the first rib. Some of Longer the fibres of the lower muscles are continued lieyond one rib to that niuscii' s. next succeeding: these longer slips have ])een named levatores longiores costarum. Action. Tliese muscles have hut little influence in elevating the Use. ribs ; and their principal use appears to be in extending and bending laterally the spine. The EXTERNAL INTERCOSTAL MUSCLE is continued backwards Outer along tlie ribs as far as the tuberosity, where it joins the elevator muscie.^*'^^ muscle. Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches Dissection, of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid l)are by this proceeding. The DORSAL NERVES sj)lit in the intervertebral foramina into Dorsal ner\ e anterior and posterior primary branches. ^'^^ * The posterior branches are directed backwards, internal to the Posterior ascending costo-transverse ligament; and their distribution has been seen in the foregoing dissection. The anterior, named intercostal, are continued between the ribs to the front of the chest: their anatomy is learnt in the dissection of ' the thorax (p. 376) and upper limb (p. 265). * The INTERCOSTAL ARTERY has an almost exact correspondence intercostal with the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution (p. 370). ^'^itcij.CHAPTER \L THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. (Jurd is coil- The spinal cortl (iiiediilla spinalis) gives origin to the spinal .spinal canal nerves, and is lodged in tlie canal Ijounded hj the "Ijodies and im-ested hy iieural ai'ches of tlie vertebra3. It is invested hy prolongations of iiicnibraiH s. ^-j^g membranes of the brain, which foi'ni slieatlis aiound and support it. Dissection Dissedion. After all the mnsclcs liave been taken from the the corli arches and spines of the vertebra}, the s])inal canal is to l)e opened by sawing through the laminee on each side, close to the articular processes ; and the cuts of tlie savv' should extend to the lower end of the sacrum, but not higher in the neck than the fourth cer^'ical vertebra. As it is difficult to use tiie saw in tlie hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be found useful to complete the division of the neural arches, and tlic The tube of the dura mater is covered by some A cins and fat, nicnibiancs. .^^^j y^^. ^ Iqqc^q areolar tissue containing fluid sometimes, especially at the lower part. The fat may be scraped away Avith the handle of the scalpel ; and the lateral 2)rolongations of the membrane through the interverteljral foramina are to be defined. si>inai Membranes of the Cord (fig. 136). Three membranes, like aic'thrcc ill f^^^^^ on the brain, surround the cord, viz., an external tube of nnnibcr. dura mater, an internal covering of pia mater, and an intermediate sheath of arachnoid. Dnra mater The DURA MATER («) is the strongest tube, and is continuous siuTonnds with the membrane lining the interior of the skull. It forms a cord loosely; Jqosc sheath (theca) along the spinal canal as far as the last lumbar lower end- Vertebra ; and then tapering gradually it ends opposite the second '"S; or third piece of the sacrum in a slender impervious cord which is continued to the back of the coccyx (fig. 135, b). The cajDacity of size of the sheath greatly exceeds the dimensions of the cord ; and it is siic.ith , larger in the neck and loins than in the dorsal region, coimec- On the outer aspect the spinal dura mater is smooth, in com- tions; parison with that in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the wall of the canal are some vessels and fat; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebrae by a few fibrous bands, offsets oit 6^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ dura mater sends offsets along the sj^inal nerves in iier\es; the intervertebral foramina; and these offsets become gradually longer below (fig. 135), where they form tubes which enclose the sacral nerves,SPINAL DUEA MATEK and lie for some distance witliin tlie spinal canal. In tlie centre, pedian iniGriC)!* between tlie lowest offsets on the nerves, is the slender fibrous cord process. (h), which, blends with the periosteum covering the back of the coccyx. Dissection. To remove the spinal cord with the sheath of the JJ^'^^g^Jj^^'j;;.' dura mater from the body, the lateral processes in the intervertelu-al cord, I'oi-amina, with the contained nerves, are to be cut; and one or two of them in the dorsal region should be followed outwards beyond the apertures by cutting away the surrounding bone. The central prolongation may be now detached from the coccyx ; and the cord and its membranes are to be divided opposite the fourth cervical * Lower end of the dura mater with its central and lateral piocesses. (I. Sheath of dura mater, I. Central fibrous l)and fixing it to the coccyx. The lateral offsets encasing the last two lumbar, the five sacral, and the coccygeal nerves are also shown. Each nerve is marked by the numeral, and the first letter of its name; t Membranes of the spinal cord, a. Dura mater cut open and reflected, h. Small part of the translucent arachnoid, Ji. Pia mater, closely investing the spinal cord. c. Ligameutum denticulatum on the side of the cord, shown by cutting through the anterior roots of the nerves, d. Processes joining it to the dura mater, e. Anterior roots of the nerves, cut; and /, posterior roots, each entering a separate hole in the dura mater, ff. Linea splendens.THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBEANES. 412 and see next covering. Deep siu"fac(; of dura mater. Subdural space. Arachnoid membrane is loose, and leaA'cs a space beneath. To show subarach- noid space. Subarach- noid space contains a fluid, and opens into ventricles of bi'ain : an imperfect septum behind. Dissection of third covering. Pia mater supports the cord, gives offsets- Fibrous bands. vertebra, and to be removed by cutting the bands tliat attach the dura mater to the posterior common ligament. When the cord is taken out, place the anterior surface uppermost, with the lateral offsets widely separated. To show the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle as far as the small terminal fibrous cord before referred to ; but the membrane is to be raised while it is being cut through, so that the loose arach- noid on the cord may not be injured. Lastly, fasten back the dura mater with pins. The inner surface of the dura mater is now seen to be smooth and shining, and everywhere free except at the spots along each side where it is perforated by the nerves, and gives attachment to the processes of the ligamentum denticulatum. The cavity between the dura mater and the arachnoid is named the subdural space. The ARACHNOID (fig. 136, h) is the thin translucent covering of tlie Cfjrd immediately beneath the dura mater. It surrounds the cord loosely, so as to leave a considerable interval between the two, called the subarachnoid space. The loose sheath is largest at its lower part, where it envelops the mass of nerves forming the caucla equina. Around the roots of each nerve the arachnoid forms a short tube, which is lost as they perforate the dura mater. Dissection. The subarachnoid space may be made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel beneath the membrane, or by putting a piece of the cord in the water and blowing air between the arachnoid and pia mater. The subarachnoid space separates the arachnoid membrane from the spinal cord invested by the pia mater. It is larger below than above, and is occupied by the cerebrospinal fluid. Superiorly it is continuous with the cranial subarachnoid space ; and through this it communicates with the cavity in the interior of the brain by means of an aperture in the roof of the fourth ventricle (p. 183). Along the back of the cord the sjDace is imperfectly divided by a median partition {septum p)Osticunfi) composed of bundles of fibrous tissue, which is most developed in the neck. Similar fine trabecula; pass between the posterior nerve-roots and the arachnoid. The subarachnoid space also contains the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. In order to see the next covering of the cord, with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid membrane is to be taken aAvay ; and two or three of the anterior roots of the upper dorsal nerves may be cut through and reflected, as in fig. 136. The PIA MATER (fig. 136, li) is much less vascular on the spinal cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord with a sheath, and sends a thin fold into the anterior median fissure ; it furnishes coverings to the roots of the spinal nerves. The outer surface of the pia mater is rough. Along the front is a median fibrous band {linea splendens ; fig. 13B, g) ; and on each side another fibrous band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is attached to it. In the cervical reQ,ion the membrane has413 SPINAL PIA MATER. usually a rather dark colour, clue to the presence of pigment- cells in it. Where the spinal cord ceases, viz., about the lower edge of the it ends body of the first lumbar vertebra, the sheath of the pia mater con- sinaiTnbVuus tracts, and gives rise to a slender thread-like prolongation, the ^^^^^j jilum terminale or central ligament of the cord (fig. 138, d). This terminale. contains a little nervous substance in its upper part; and below, it blends with the central imjiervious process of the dura mater. A vein and artery accompany the filum terminale, and distinguish it from the surrounding nerves. The Hgamentum denticulatum (fig. 136, c) is a white, fibrous l)and Tiie dentate on each side of the spinal cord, and has received its name from its serrated appearance. It serves to support the cord, which is fixed b}'' it to the sheath of the dura mater. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the is nxed un band reaches upwards to the beginning of the medulla oblongata, cordt^'^^^' and ends below on the pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of tri- angular or tooth-like projections (d), which are fixed at intervals and on other into the dura mater, each being about midway between the aper- [nater tures of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty- mnni.er and one denticulations, of which the first is attached, to the dura mater f^f^'I^^J^^^"^ opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite the twelfth dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. Vessels and nervts of the membranes. The spinal dura i»ftfer has Vessels and l)ut few vessels in comparison with that in tlie skull, its office being (iixi-a^i*^i)|teT ■ different. Filaments of the sympathetic and spinal nerves are fur- nished to the membrane. The arachnoid has no vessels ; and proof of its containing nerves of aracii- in man is yet wanting. ' The }na mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though of pia mater, this is less marked here than on the brain; and from them oftsets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves derived from the sympathetic and the i^osterior roots of the spinal nerves. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken away on one Disseotii>n side ; and the nerve-roots are to be traced outwards to their trans- f,erves^ mission through apertures in the dura mater. One of the off'sets of the dura mater, which has been cut of some and the length, is to be laid open to expose the contained ganglion. The sanghon. student should define the ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 137, b), and should trace a bundle of threads of the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting also of two bundles of threads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior root beyond the ganglion. Spinal Nerves. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves; and Trunks of each nerve is constructed by the blending of two roots (anterior and ^lerves. posterior) in the intervertebral foramen (fig. 137). They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional Number and subdivisions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, s^oups. sacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in414 THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBRANES. Porttericjr larger tin anterior, forms two bundles that enter theganalion Ganglia form, and size each Infid. number as the vertebrae, except in the cervical region, -where they are eight, and in the coccygeal region where there is only one. The cervical nerves from the first to the seventh pass out above the several vertebra3 ; and the eighth is below the last cervical vertebra; the succeeding nerves are placed each below its corresponding ver- tebra. Each nerve divides into two primary branches, anterior and posterior ; the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs; and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Roots of the nerves (tig. 137). Two roots (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord ; and these unite together to form a common trunk in the intervertebral foramen. The posterior root is marked by a ganglion, but the anterior root is aganglionic. The iwsterior or ganglionic roots (fig. 137 A, b) are larger than the anterior, and are formed by thicker and more numerous fibrils. Tliey are attached to the side of the cord between the posterior and lateral columns in a straight line, which they keep even to the last nerve. In their course to the trunk of the nerve the fibrils converge to an aperture in the dura mater, opposite the intervertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are collected into two bundles (fig. 137 B, b) which, lying side by side, receive a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the two points of the intervertebral ganglion. The intervertebral ganglion (fig. 137 A, c) is reddish in colour and oval in shape ; and its size is proj)ortioned to that of the root. By means of the previous dissection, the ganglion may be seen to be bifid at tlie inner end (fig. 137 b), where it is joined by the bundles of filaments of the root (b) ; or the root might be said to possess t^-o * A. Plan of the origin of a spinal nerve from the spinal cord. a. Anterior root. I). Posterior root. c. Ganglion on the posterior root, d. Anterior primary branch, e. Posterior primary branch of the nerve-trunk. B. A drawing to shew the arrangement of the nerve-roots, and the form of the ganglion in a lumbar nerve, b, b. Posterior root gathered into two bundles of threads, c. The ganglion, bifid at the inner end. a, a. Filaments of the anterior root, also gathered into two bundles.ROOTS OF THE XERVES. 415 small ganglia, one for each bundle of filaments^ which are blended, at their outer ends. Sometimes the first or suboccipital nerve is without a ganglion. The anterior or agamjlionic roots (fig. 137 a, a) arise from the side Anterior of the spinal cord by filaments which are attached irregularly—not ^^thi^t in a straight line, and approach near the middle fissure at the lower ganglion, end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the inter- pierces vertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct openii]g in, and have ^nd ioius a separate sheath of, the dura mater. In their farther course to the , trunk of the nerve they are gatliered into two bundles (fig. 137 b, a), ganglion, and pass over the ganglion without joining it. Finally, the anterior root blends with the posterior beyond the ganglion, to form the trunk. Characters of the roots. Besides variations in the relative size of cimractei-s the two roots, the following characters are to be noted :— '^^ rnotfi. Union of the fibrils. The fibrils of contiguous anterior roots may ^^v'l"'^''^^ be intermingled, and the fibrils of the neighbouring posterior roots j'oin'. '^' may be connected in a like manner ; but the anterior is never mixed with the posterior root. Si?x of the roots to each other. The posterior root is larger than Posterior the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve; and the number Qf ^^'^'sei, the filaments is also greater. Farther, the posterior is proportion- proportion- ally larger in the cervical than in any other group ; in the dorsal nerves there is but a very slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Si:^e of both roots along the cord. Both roots are larger where the Roots ;nc nerves for the limbs arise than at any other part of the cord ; and ne'nf<:\s or' they are largest in the nerves to the lower limbs. They are li"'^"- smallest at the lower extremity of the cord. »■ Direction and length of the roots. As the apertures of transmission '". from the spinal canal are not generally opposite the place of origin of the nerves, the roots are for the most part directed obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down ; for in the upper cervical nerves the roots are horizontal ; but in the lumbar and ii.ost so sacral nerves they have a vertical direction around the filum ^" * terminale (iig. 138) ; and the bundle of long nerve-roots descending where they from the end of the spinal cord is named, from its resemblance to a equina?"* ' horse's tail, the cauda equina. The length of the roots increases in proportion to their obliquity. Length in- Thus, the distance between the origin and the place of exit of the aixm^down! roots of the lowest cervical nerve equals the depth of one vertebra ; in the lowest dorsal nerve it amounts to the depth of two vertebra3; and in the lumbar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes nearly a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of the roots. Commonly the roots unite as before Union of stated in the intervertebral foramina ; and the trunk of the nerve j^^^jntTr.*^ bifurcates at the same spot into anterior and posterior primary vertebr.ii branches (fig. 137, d and e). But deviations from this arrangementTHE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBEAXES. 416 except in lirst two cervical, the sacral, and coc- cygeal nerves. Situation of ganglia. Exceptions in cervical. sacral, and (coccygeal. Arteries of cord. Anterior spinal, a single artery : ternnnation oflsett Posterior arteries are two; lie on side; of cord. Veins : termina- tion ; at top of cord. Situation of the coi-d. are found at the upper ami lower ends of tlie spinal column in tlie following nerves. The roots of the first two cervical nerves join on the neural arches of the corresponding vertebrae; and the anterior and posterior primary branches diverge from tlie trunks in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place within the spinal canal ; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures on the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in the spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Situation of the ganglia. The ganglia are placed commonly in the intervertebral foramina, but where the position of these apertures is irregular, as at the U2:tper and lower extremities of the spinal column, they have the followiug situation :—In the first two nerves they lie on the neural arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral nerves they are contained in the spinal canal; and in the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is usually within the sac of the dura mate]-. Vessels of the spinal cord. The arteries on the surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal arterij occupies the middle line of the cord beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It begins by the union of two small branches of the vertebral artery (p. 184) ; and it is continued to the lower end of the cord by a series of anastomotic T^ranches, which are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the neck, and from the intercostal arteries in the dorsal region. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolongation of the cord. The branches of this artery ramify in the pia mater, some entering the median fissure. The posterior spinal arteries, one on each side, are continued from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the nerves. These vessels are furnished from the same source as the anterior (p. 184), and their continuity is maintained by a series of anastomotic ofi'sets, Avhich enter the canal along the spinal nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some twigs enter the posterior septa of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the cord the veins are united into two or more small branches, which, communicating Avitli the intraspinal veins, join in the skull the inferior cerebellar veins, or the inferior petrosal sinuses. The SPINAL CORD (medulla spinalis) is the elongated cylindrical part of the cerebro-spinal centre, which is enclosed within the spinal canal. Invested by the membranes before examined, the cord occupies about two-thirds of the length of its canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it.417 EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF CORD. The extent of the spinal cord is from the L)wer margin of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but Fig. 138.* its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third month the medulla reaches the whole length of the spinal canal ; but it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the posi- tion it has in the adult. Its length is usually from sixteen to eighteen inches. Above, the cord joins the medulla oblon- gata ; and below, it ends in a small taper- ing part {conus mediiUaris), from which the filum terminale (fig. 138, d) is continued downwards. The lower end of the conus niedullaris is sometimes marked by one or two irregular swellings. The size of the spinal cord is much increased wliere the nerves of the limbs are attached. There are, therefore, two enlargements on it, viz., cervical or brachial, and lumbar or crural; t he one in the neck reaches from the first cervical to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other is smaller, and is on a level with the eleventh and twelfth (k)rsal vertebrae. In the upper enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelling the measurement from before back nearly equals the transverse. While the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distinguished from the ]>osterior by the central fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery; as well as by the irregular line of the anterior nerve-roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the struc- ture the student will require a piece of a fresh 0 cord which has been hardened in spirit; for the cord which is obtained from the spinal canal / at this period is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater with the roots of the nerves removed on one side, the ' j^j student will be able to observe the following jl divisions of the cord. "* Sulci of the cord (fig. 139). The anterior median fissure occupies the middle line of the front of the cord in Extent varies below. and ia tli^ emVirso. Loii"Cli. Inferior t<'rininatif>n in the adult. Two s\V(^ll- ings on it. Antftrior surface, liow known. Dissection, to see con- stituents of cord. Purrovv.s of the cord are anterior * Membranes of the sphial cord laid open, to show the lower end of the cord with the filum terminale. a. Dura mater, and h, the fibrous Imnd fixing it to the coccyx. c. Pointed lower end of the cord (conns niedullaris). d. Filum terminale of the cord. E ETHE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBRANES. 418 post erior median, lilt oral, and pos- terior into mediate. Fig. 139.-"- its Avliole length, and penetrates about one-third of the thickness of the medulla. It is lined by a fold of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medullary substance bounds the fissure ; and at the bottom of it the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood-vessels. Along the back of the cord, also in the middle line, tliere is a narrow groove, from which a process of the pia mater called the posterior median sej^tum extends forwards nearly to the centre of the medulla, separating the nervous substance of the right and left halves. Vessels of the posterior surface of the cord enter in the septum. The lateral furron^ (fig. 139, d) is a shallow groove along the line of attachment of the fasciculi of the posterior roots. Between the posterior median and the lateral grooves another slight furrow, the posterior intermediate, may be seen in the upper part of the cord (fig. 139, e). Divisions of the Cord. Each half of the cord between the median sulci is divided into two by the lateral furrow (fig. 139, d) ; the part in front of that groove and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero - lateral column (a) ; and the part behind, the posterior column (h). The antero - lateral colurnn (fig. 139, a) includes rather more than the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerA'es, and gives attachment to the anterior roots (k). This part of the cord is sometimes described as consist- ing of anterior and lateral columns, the two being separated by tlie anterior roots of the nerves. The jjostcrior column (fig. 139, h) is situate between the lateral furrow (fZ), with the posterior roots of the nerves (j), and the with median posterior median septum. In the cervical region, the posterior parts^*^™'^^ intermediate sulcus (e) marks oft' a small inner portion, Avhich is named the posterior wedian column (c) ; and the remainder is then distinguished as the postero-external column (h). A narrow central piece, the commissure of the cord, unites the halves between the anterior median fissure and the posterior median septum. Composition of the cord (fig. 139). A horizontal section of the cord shows more distinctly its division into halves, with the * A section of the spinal cord, to show its composition and divisions. In the middle line below is the anterior median fissure, and above are the posterior median groove and septum, d. The lateral sulcus, e. The posterior intermediate sulcus. Columns: a. Antero-lateral. b. Posterior external, c. Posterior median. Cornposition : g. Grey crescent, surrounded by white fibres, h. Grey transverse commissure, and i, canal of the cord in it. j. Posterioi", and anterior root of a nerve entering the grey crescent. two-thirds of the half posterior column, and com- missure. Cord con- sists of grey and white matter.419 GREY SUBSTANCE OF CORD. eoniBiissivral or connecting piece between tliem. The same cut demonstrates the existence of a mass of grey matter in the interior, which is arranged in the form of two crescents (one in eacli half), iitiited by a cross piece, and surrounded by white substance. The commissure consists of two parts, viz., a transverse band of The cum- grey matter (fig. 139, /;), with a white stratum in front. missure: The grey transverse band (posterior or grey commissure) connects the grey the opposite crescents, and is placed rather nearer the front than ' the back of the cord. In its centre is the shrunken canal of the with its "spinal cord (fig. 139, i), which is best seen in the foetus. It ^^11*™^ reaches the whole length of the medulla, and a cross section of the cord shows it as a round spot. Above, the canal opens on the floor of the fourth ventricle ; and below, it is continued into the filum terminale. It is lined by a columnar ciliated epithelium, and is lined by olxstructed l)y a granular material near the upper end. epithehum, The anterior or white commissure is best marked opposite the en- the white largements on the cord, and is least developed in the dorsal region. The half of the medulla. In the half of the cord, as in the com- The half of missure, grey and white portions exist ; the former is elongated from before back, being crescentic in shape as before said, and is quite surrounded by the latter. The grey crescent (fig. 139, g) has its extremities or cornua directed The grey towards the roots of tlie nerves, and the crescent, convexity to the middle line. The Yig, 140."''" crescentic masses in tlie opposite halves of the cord are united by the gre}^ com- missure. _ ^ >N J^^ The posterior cornu is long and slender A j vj^*^ (fig. 140), and reaches nearly to the « '^^^^'^^S^ surface along the lateral fissure. It is j rather narrow at its base (cervix;'), and y' '^'f^'^ enlarged towards its extremity (caput; ^), ^ its parts where it is surmounted by a semi-trans- 'parent layer which has been named the substantia gelatinosa (^). There is also on the inner side of the cervix of the posterior cornu a special portion of grey matter containing nerve-cells, the posterior vesicular cofumn of Clarke (^), which is most developed in the lower dorsal region. The anterior cornu (fig. 140,") is shorter and thicker than the Anterior posterior, and projects towards tlie anterior roots without reaching the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outline. A third smaller projection of the grey matter is seen in the u]3per inter- part of the dorsal region of the cord, on the outer side of the crescent, pvocoss. between the anterior and posterior horns : this is known as the inter- mediate process ((lowers) or the lateral cornu (fig. 140,^). * Outline of the grey substance in tlie spinal cord, near the middle of the «lorsal region (Lockhart Clarke). 1. Caput cornu posterioris. 2. Anterior covnu. 3. Substantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5. Posterior commissure. 6. Intermediate process. 7. Cervix cornu posterioris. 8. Pos- terior vesicular column. E F. 2 Po.sl;erior cornu:THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. 420 White The white substance of the cord is composed cliiefly of meduUated snbstance. nei've-fibres disposed in longitudinal bundles, which are enclosed by- irregular septa of connective tissue prolonged from the pia mater on the surface. Three larger processes of the pia mater extend into the back of the cord ; these are the posterior median septum already referred to, and the posterior intermediate septum on each side, which passes forwards in the cervical region from the furrow of the same name, and separates the posterior median and postero-external columns. Grey ami Modifications in the grey and white substance. The white substance white sub- staiu-e vary. Fig. Ml.* Fi--. 142.t Crescents alter their shape. Vessels oi' the spinal canal. ijoiu'ce of the intra- spinal arteries. mucli exceeds "the grey in quantity in the cervical and dorsal regions ; but it is less abundant in proj)ortion to the grey matter in the lumbar enlargement. The grey substance is least in amount in the dorsal region. The cornua of the grey crescents decrease in length from above down, especially the jDosterior, and towards the end of the cord they blend in. one indented or cruciform mass. Intraspinal Vessels. Arteries supply the cord and its mem- branes, and the bodies of the vertebrte. The veins form a remark- able plexus within the canal, but this Avill not be seen unless they have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (fig. 141, a) are derived from the vessels along the sides and front of the spinal column, viz., from the vertebral and ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in * Intraspinal arteries in the loins, a. Branch of a lumbar artery. 6. As- cending, and c, descending offset, d. Offset to the body of the vertebra on each side. e. Central artery formed by offsets from the lateral loops. t Intraspinal veins in the loins, a. Branch to join a lumbar vein. h. Anterior longitudinal vein, one on each side. c. Veins from the bodies of the vertebrae.421 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. the back, and fToni the lumhar and lateral sacral Lelow. Th'ey are distributed after the following plan :— As each artery enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral fora- Distribution men, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the point of division the branches are directed, one (6) upwards and the other (c) downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebrae, and join in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- spinal artery above and below. From the loops offsets (d) are y,y . furnished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebra3. Anas- tomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebra3. The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal artery (e), i<"ci a cen- like that on the front of the spinal cord, Avhich lies on the bodies of ''^ ^^^^^ ' the vertebrae, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loops. The intraspinal veim (fig. 142) consist of two anterior longitu- intraspinal <linal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal ; 1.^1"^'^"^"^ of veins inside the bodies of the vertebra); and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. The anterior longitudinal veim {h) are close to the bodies of the Anterior vertebra), one on each side of the posterior common ligament ; and |,r"oubo,H^s they are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the vertt-ina-. intervertebral foramina. They receive oj)posite the body of each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the interverte- bral foramina they have branches of communication {a) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, tlic loins, and the pelvis. Veins of the bodies of the vertehrce. Within the channels in the Vemsoftiie bodies of the vertebrte are large veins, which join on the front of the ^ •'■'t*-^'™- bone with veins in that situation. Towards the back of the vertebra they are united in an arch, from which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, tlie trunks di^'crge to tlie right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. The -posterior'spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater Posterior and the arches of the vertel)rao. A large vein may be said to lie on a|?e"in cml-'** <',ach side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and tact with with the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Offsets from these vessels are directed through the intervertebral foramina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse processes.CHAPTER YII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section I. PERINEUM OF THE MALE. Eeiure tin Jlirectioiis. Tlie perineiini may be allotted "with greatest advaii- pa^s^^catile- dissector of the alxloinen ; and its examination should ter. be made first, as tlie distinctness of many of tlie parts is destroyed soon after death. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dissection, the student may ])ractise passing the catheter along the urethra. Place the Position of the hochj. The body is most conveniently supported body in (or the dissection of the jierineum by placing it on a sj^ecial perineal ixtsi joii. Ij^it \yi the absence of this it may be fixed in the following manner :—While the body lies on the back it is to be drawn to the end of tlie dissecting table, till the buttocks project slightly over the edge ; and a block is to be placed beneath the pelvis, to raise ami fasten the perineum to a convenient height. The knees having been bent, tiie™^^!^ the thighs are to be raised upon the trunk, and the limbs fastened Avitli a cord in their bent position. For this i^ui'pose make one or two tttrns with the cord round one bent knee (say the right) ; carry the cord beneath the table, and, encircling the opposite limb in the same manner, fasten it finally roitnd the right knee. When the position has been arranged, let the student raise the scrotum, and place a small piece of cotton-wool or tow within the anus, but with- (Utt distending the rectum. Tlie surface Sujjerficial limits and marhing. The perineal sj^ace in the male is lumts. limited, on the surface of the body, by the scrotum in front, and by the thighs and buttocks on the sides and behind. The anus. The skin of this region is of a dark colour, and is covered with hairs. In the middle line is the. aperture of the anus, which is behind a line extending from the anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex over the urethra, and j)resents a longitudinal prominent line the raphe, or raphe, which divides the space into halves. Betw.een the anus hollow on and the ttiberosity of the hip-bone the surface is somewhat depressed sideofanu.s. ^^^^^ hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially in emaciated bodies. and folds The margin of the anal aperture j^ossesses numerous converging around that ^^^^^r ^^^^^ these are more or less obliterated by the position of the opening.BOUNDARIES OF THE PEKINEUM. 420. hudy and the distension of the anus : and projecting oftentimes through and around the opening are some dilated veins (haemor- rhoids). Deej) houndaries. The deep boundaries of the perineal space will Bounding he ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to correspond with as those of the inferior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis. The limits may be seen on a dry or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire; and the student should trace on the body the several boundaries with his finger. In front is the symphysis pubis ; and at the back is the tip of the coccyx, Avith the great gluteal muscles. On each side in front is the portion of the hip-bone which bounds the subpul)ic arch, viz., from the pubic symphysis to the ischial tuberosity ; and farther back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuberosity to the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as tlie recto-vesical fascia, Avhich forms its floor. Form and size. The interval included within the boundaries above Form of ilie said is rather heart-shaped, owing to the projection of the coccyx meaTure-' behind ; and it measures over the surface about four inches from "it-nts. before back^vards, and three and a half inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth. The depth of the perineum from the surface to the floor Depth of may be said to be generally about three inches between the anus ^ ■^P''^'^- and the ischial tuberosity, but this measurement varies greatly in different bodies ; and it amounts to about an inch at the fore part, between the pubic bones. IHvinon. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one side to a line be- tlie corresponding point on the other will divide the perineal space tuberosities into two parts. The anterior half (urethral) contains the root of the cUvides it penis and the urethra, with their muscles, and vessels and nerves. The posterior half (rectal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. This portion of the perineal space contains the lower end of the Contents of rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscles and the muscles acting ' on the anus. The gut does not occupy, however, the whole of the interval between the pelvic bones ; for on each side is a space, the and their ischio-rectal fossa, in which is contained much loose fat, with the |ositi!)n. vessels and nerves for the supply of the end of the gut. Dissection (fig. 143). The skin is to be raised fioni this part of Dissection the perineum by the following cuts :—One is to be made across the perineum at the front of the anus, and is to extend rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx in the same direction, and for the same distance. The two transverse cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the mid-line, and around the anus. The flaps of the skin thus marked out are to be raised and thrown out- wards from the middle line : in detaching the skin from the marginDISSECTION OF THE PEIUNEUM. 424 of extorual sphincter Difference in cleaning the ischio- rectal fossse. Dissection of left ischio- rectal fossa. On right side, seek vessels and nerves. Situation of fossa; form ; dimensions; boundaries. Pudic ves- sels on the outer Avail, of the anus, the supei-ficial fibres of the sphincter muscle may he injured without care, for they are close to the skin, without the intervention of fat. The dissector should trace the external sphinc- ter to the coccyx, and forwards for a short distance beneath the skin, and define a fleshy slip on each side in front and behind to the subcutaneous fatty layer. The next step is to bring into view the iscliio-rectal hollow between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip-bone. On the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissec- tion is to l)e made of them. To take out the fat from the left fossa, begin at the outer margin of the sphincter ani, and proceed forwards and backwards. In front the dissection should not extend farther than the anus, while behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the levator ani (sometimes very pale) is to be exposed by the removal of a thin layer of areolar tissue (anal fascia). On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and the accompanying nerves should be denuded : they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance from the surface. On the right side it is not necessary to clean the muscular fibres when following the vessels and nerves. If the student begins at the outer Ijorder of the sphincter, he will find the inferior hsemor- rhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to the pudic trunks ; some of the branches, which join the superficial perineal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space seek a small ofl"set of the fourth sacral nerve ; and external to it, branches of the perforating cutaneous nerve from the sacral plexus, with small vessels, turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is the superficial perineal artery with a nerve ; and the last, after communicating with the hsemorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa. A second perineal nerve, with a deeper position, may be found at the front of tlie hollow. The iscHio-RECTAL FOSSA (fig. 143) is the interval between the rectum and the ischial part of the hip-bone. It is a somewhat pyramidal hollow, which is larger behind than before, and dimin- ishes in width as it sinks on the inner side of the hip-bone. Its width is about one inch at the surface ; and its depth about two inches at the outer side. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner or longest side of the space is very oblique, and is formed by the levator ani muscle (d), together with the coccygeus at the back ; but the outer side is vertical, and is formed by the obturator internus muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen) ; and Ijehind are the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the largest gluteal muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the teguments, and is overlain in part by the gluteus (e) and the &23hincter externus (a). Vessels and nerves in the space. Along the outer wall lie the pudic vessels (a) and the perineal and dorsal divisions of the pudic nerve,425 ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA. wiiicli are contained in a sheath of fascia ; opposite the ischial tuberosity they are situate about an inch and a half from the edge of the bone, but towards the front of the space they approach to within half an inch of the margin of the ischial ramus. Crossing the centre of the hollow are the inferior hoemorrhoidal vessels and nerve (b),—branches of the j^udic. At the anterior part, for a short and nerves distance, are two superficial perineal nerves (^) (of the pudic) ; and at the posterior part is a small branch of the fourth, sacral nerve (^), 14.' with cutaneous offsets of the sacral plexus and inferior hsemor- rhoidal vessels (c), bending round the gluteus. Into this space the surgeon sinks his knife in the first incision First cut, in in the lateral operation of lithotomy; and as he carries it from entens*th"ls before backwards, he will divide the superficial hsemorrhoidal vessels space, and nerve. Muscles. Connected with the lower end of the rectum are four Muscles .if muscles, viz., a fine cutaneous muscle, and two sphincters (external ''cctinn. and internal), with the levator ani. CORRUGATOR CUTIS ANI f (fig. 143, b). This thin subcutaneous Cormgator ^ ° ' cutis ani: * A view of the dissection of the rectal half of the perineum (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : a. External sphincter, b. Corrngator cutis, only part left. c. Internal sphincter, n. Levator ani. E. Gluteus maxirauB. Arteries: a. Trunk of the pudic artery, b. Inferior hfemorrhoidal, and c, its gluteal branches. Nerves: 1. Interior htemorrhoidal. 2. Superficial perineal. 3. Perineal branch of the fourth sacral. 4. Perforating cut^aneous. f Illustrations of Dissections, p. 243. London, 1865.426 DISSECTION OF THE PEEINEUM. attach- ments ; Superficial sphincter : insertion ; relations : and xise. JJeop sphincter, pale band. is part of fibres of iiitestiiio ; Insertion of levator ani into coccyx and tendon in front of if ; into rectum, and the centre of the perinenni : relations ; layer of involuntary muscle surrounds the anus with radiating ftbres. Externally it blends with the subdermic tissue outside the internal sphincter ; and internally it enters the anus and ends in the sul)- mucous tissue within the sphincter. Action. This muscle draws upwards and inverts the mucous membrane of the lower end of the gut, after it has been protruded and everted in the passage of the fasces. The EXTERNAL SPHINCTER (sphincter ani externus ; fig. 143, a) is a fiat, orbicular muscle, which surrounds the anal opening. It arises posteriorly by a fibrous band from the back of the coccyx near the tip, and by fleshy fibres on each side from the subcutaneous, fatty layer. Its fibres pass forwards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture ; and they are inserted in front into the central point of the perineum, and into the superficial fascia by a fleshy slip on each side. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and partly conceals the- levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio-rectal fossa ; and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. Action. The muscle gathers into a roll the skin around the anus^ and occludes the anal aperture. Commonly the fibres are in a state of involuntary slight contraction, l)ut they may be firmly contracted under the influence of the will. The INTERNAL SPHINCTER (spliincter ani internus ; fig. 143, c) is situate round the extremity of the intestine, internal to the p>receding muscle, and its edge will be seen by removing the corrugator and the mucous membrane. The fibres of the muscle are pale, fine in texture, quite separate from the surrounding exteirnal sphincter, and encircle the anus in the form of a ring about half an inch in depth. The muscle is a thickened band of the involuntary circular fibres of the large intestine, and is not attached to the bone. Action. This sphincter assists the external in closing the anus ; and its contraction is-altogether involuntary. The LEVATOR ANI (fig. 143, d) can be seen only in part; and the external sphincter may be detached from the coccyx, in order that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from its origin at the inner aspect of the hip-bone, and is inserted along the middle line from the coccyx to the central j)oint of the perineum. The hindmost fibres are attached to the side of the coccyx ; and between that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a median tendinous line. The middle fibres are blended with the side of the rectum. And the anterior are joined with the opposite muscle, in front of the rectum, in the central point of the perineum. This muscle bounds the ischio-rectal fossa on the inner side, and unites with its fellow to form a fleshy layer (pelvic diaphragm), con- vex downwards, through which the rectum is transmitted. Deeper than the muscle is the recto-vesical fascia. Along the hinder border is placed the coccygeus.PUDIC VESSELS AND NERVE. 421 Action. It compresses the lower part of the rectum during tlie use on act of defaecation. rectinu. This muscle will be more fully seen in the dissection of the pelvis (p. 549). Arteries (lig, 143). The pudic artery, with its inferior hsemor- Arteries of rhoidal branch, and other small offsets of it, are now visible. The INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY («) is derived from the internal Pndic iliac in the pelvis (p. 565), and in its course to the genital organs ^^^^^"J" = distributes offsets to the perineum ; one portion will be laid bare m course: the posterior, and the other in the anterior half of the perineum. As now seen, the vessel enters the hinder part of the ischio-rectal posterior fossa, and courses forwards along the outer wall at the depth of one fos^gV^ inch and a half behind, but of only half an inch in front. It is depth and contained in an aponeurotic sheath formed by the obturator fascia, relations. The usual companion veins lie by its side ; and two nerves accom- pany it, viz., the dorsal nerve of the penis which is abo^ e it, and the perineal branch of tlie pudic nerve which is nearer the surface. Its Branches:— offsets in this part of its course are the following:— The inferior hcemorrJioidal branch (/>) arises as the artery enters inferior the ischio-rectal fossa, and is directed inwards across the space to Ij^i"^^^'''*^"': the anus, dividing into branches which supply the skin and fat, the ' ' levator ani and sphincter muscles, and the lower end of the rectum. On the gut it anastomoses with the other liEemorrhoidal arteries. In a well injected body cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part of the perineum, and to communicate with the superficial perineal artery. Other offsets {c) turn upwards round the edge of the gluteus maximus to the integument of the lower and inner part of the buttock. Small muscular hranches cross the front of the iscliio-rectal fossa, '"^jj^^^^"^'"" and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. J^eins accompany the arteries, and have a like course and ramifi- Veins, cation : the pudic veins end in the internal iliac. Nerves (fig. 143). The nerves seen at this stage of the dissec- Nerves of tion are the three divisions of the pudic trunk, a branch of the ^^^^ ^r^ice. fourth sacral nerve, and the perforating cutaneous offset of the sacral plexus. The PUDIC NERVE is derived from the sacral plexus, and lies over Pndic nerve the small sacro-sciatic ligament with the artery in the buttock ?ire!>^paJ-t^I (p. 647). In the small sacro-sciatic foramen the nerve breaks up into the three following branches, which enter the perineum :— The inferior hcemorrlioidal branch crosses the ischio-rectal fossa, inferior and reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to dja" the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous offsets of the nerve run forwards over the fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial perineal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. ,[ The perineal branch is the largest of the three divisions, and runs perineal; : ■ forwards in a sheath of the obturator fascia, lying below the pudic vessels. At the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa it divides into j cutaneous, muscular, and genital offsets. Its two cutaneous branches ; : ■DISSECTIONS^ OF THE PERINEUM. and dorsal nerve of the penis. onset of fourth sacral nerve. Perforating cutaneous nerve. (superficial perineal) may be seen on the right side, where they lie for a short distance in the fat of the hollow. The dorsal nerve of the penis accompanies the pndic artery along the outer side of the ischio-rectal fossa to the fore part of the perineum. It is also enclosed in the obturator fascia, but is deeper than the blood-vessels. The PERINEAL BRxVNCH OP THE FOURTH SACRAL NERVE (^) reaches the ischio-rectal fossa between the levator ani and coccygeus, or by piercing one of these muscles, near the coccyx, and ends by supply- ing the external sphincter. The PERFORATING CUTANEOUS NERVE is an offset from the lowest part of the sacral j)lexus, and is named from its piercing the great sacro-sciatic ligament in its course to the perineum. Turning upwards round the lower edge of the gluteus maxinius, its branches are distributed to the skin of tlie inner and lower j^art of the gluteal region (fig. 143, Urethral half: contents and general position of parts. Incisions t< raise the skin. Blow up superticial fascia, and reflect it. Define parti- tion between thigh and perineal space. On right side seek inferior ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINEAL SPACE. In the anterior jDait of the perineal space are lodged the crura of the penis, and the tube of the urethra as it courses from the interior of the pelvis to the surface of the body. Placed midway between the bones, the urethra is supported by the triangular ligament of the jierineum, and by its union with the penis. Muscles are collected around the urethra and the crura of the ])enis : most of tliesc ai'c suj^erticial to, but one is within the tri- angular ligament. The vessels and nerves lie along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send inwards offsets. Dissection (fig. 144). To raise the skin from the anterior half of the perineum, a transA erse cut is to be made at the back of the scrotum, and is to be continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected outwards. After the removal of the skin, the superficial fascia which covers the front of the perineal space is to be blown up by means of a pipe introduced beneath it posteriorly. Each side is to Ije inflated to demonstrate a partition along the middle line, and a septimi between the perineal s^^ace and the thigh, Avhich prevents the air passing to the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side of the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa; and after reflecting it, and removing loose fatty tissue, its line of attachment to the bone externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly, will be brought into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. To show more completely the attachment of this layer to the hip- bone between the perineal space and the thigh, it will be necessary to take away from the left limb the fat on the fascia lata, external to the margin of the bone. In the fat of the thigh on the right side the student should seek the inferior pudendal ner\'e, which pierces the fascia lata one inch429 SUPEEFICIAL FASCIA OF ANTERIOR HALF. ill front of tlie ischial tuberosity, and about tlie same distance from pudendal the margin of the bone ; and he should trace its junction in the fat with the inferior hseniorrhoidal nerve. Afterwards the nerve is to be followed forwards to where it enters beneath the superficial fascia nearer the middle line. The swperjicial fascia of the anterior half of the perineum is com- Superficial posed of two layers, which differ in their characters and relations. ' One is the subcutaneous fatty part, continuous witli tliat of the subcutanc- adjoining regions : its thickness, and the quantity of fat in it vary ^^^^ P''*''* \ with the condition of the body. Passing in front into the scrotum, it there loses its fat, and contains involuntary muscular fibres, forming the layer known as the clarfos. The other (fascia of Colles) is a more membranous stratum of and mem- limitecl extent, and is connected with the firm subjacent structures, ifvor""" Externally it is fixed to the conjoined rami of the ischium and pubis, outside the line of the crus penis and its muscle, extending as far back as the ischial tuberosity. Posteriorly this hxyer bends upwards to join the triangular ligament of the urethra ; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to the scrotum and iienis. „„ , -r. p . ., . t. , 11-1 i^^s latter By means oi similar connections of the membrane on both sides, a forms a pouch, opoii in front; * Superficial dissection of the anterior hah' of the perineum (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles, S{c.: A. Ejaculator urinse, b. Erector penis, c. Trans- versus perinei. D. Levator ani. e. Gluteus niaximus. g. Crus penis, h. Urethra. Arteries: a. Transverse perineal, h. Superficial perineal. Nerves: 1. Inferior haemorrhoidal. 2 and 3. Superficial perineal. 4. Inferior pudendal.DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. this divided by a septum. Course of air and effused urine. Dissection of nerves and vessels on right side. Superficial vessels of pudic. Superficial pei'ineal ends in scrotum, and supplies muscles. Transvei artery. Veins with the arteries. Cutaneous nerves of scrotum. Two super- ficial peri- ii'eal; external space is enclosed over the anterior half of the perinenm. From its dee J) surface a septum extends upwards in the middle line, and divides posteriorly the subjacent space into two : but anteriorly this •partition is less perfect, or may disappear. Air blown beneath the fascia passes forwards to the scrotum ; and this direction is given to it by the deep connections of the membrane with parts around. Should urine be effused beneath the superficial fascia, the fluid Avill necessarily be directed forwards, like the air, through the scrotum to the penis and the front of the abdomen. Dissection. The superticial vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side of the perineum, by cutting through the super- ficial fascia in the same manner as on the left side. The long slender artery then visible is the superficial jierineal, which gives a transverse l^ranch near its commencement. Two superficial peri- neal nerves accompany the artery ; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perineal and the inferior haemorrhoidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backwards. Arteries (fig. 144). The superficial and transverse perineal arteries beneath the fascia are branches of the pudic, and are two or three in number. The SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL ARTERY (fig. 144, />), arising at the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa, runs over or under the transverse muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia, to the back of the scrotum, where it ends in flexuous branches. In its course through the perineum the vessel supplies offsets to the muscles beneath ; and in the scrotum it anastomoses with the external pudic branches of the femoral artery. Sometimes there is a second perineal branch. The TRANSVERSE ARTERY OF THE PERINEUM (fig. 144, ft) arisCS from the preceding, and is directed transversely to the middle of the perineal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and the muscles between the urethra and the rectum. It anastomoses with the one of the opposite side. Branches of veins accompany the arteries, and open into the trunk of the jDudic vein ; those with the superficial perineal artery are plexiform at the scrotum. Nerves (fig. 144). Three nerves run forwards to the scrotum on each side, viz., the inferior pudendal of the small sciatic, and two sujDerficial perineal branches of the pudic nerve. The SUPERFICIAL perineal nerves, two in number, are named external and internal: l)oth arise in the ischio-rectal fossa from the perineal division of the pudic nerve (p. 427). The external branch {^) is continued forwards, beneath the super- ficial fascia, with the artery of the same name to the back of the scrotum. While in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an offset to the integuments in front of the anus ; and this communicates with the inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve.SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF AKTEEIOll HALF. 431 The internal hrancli (^) passes under the transverse muscle, and audinternai; accompanies the other to the scrotum. The superficial perineal branches communicate with one another, and the external is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the distributed scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, which reach ami^penLs"^ as far as the under surface of the penis. Other muscular branches of tlie perineal nerve will be afterwards Muscular examined (p. 432). 'tancies. The INFERIOR PUDENDAL NERVE {^) is a branch of the small sciatic, inferior It pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial uei've^' tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perineum, to end in tlie outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Communica- ends in tions take i)lace l)etween this nerve, the inferior ha^niorrhoidal, and the outer of the two su])erticial perineal branches. Dissection. For the display of the muscles, the superficial fascia. Dissection as well as the vessels and nerves of the left side, must be taken of "he'^^'*'^ away from the anterior half of the perineal space. Afterwards a "rcthra and thin aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the surface of the muscles. Next to the middle line lies the cjaculator urina); along the outer edge of the space is the erector penis ; and behind, pass- ing obliquely Ijetvveen the other two, is the transverse muscle. On the rigilt side the student should seek the branches of the and of their perineal nerve to the muscles. "er\es. Muscles (fig. 144). Superficial to the triangular ligament, in Tiuee the anterior half of the perineal space, are three muscles, viz., the "ver'^trr- erector penis, the ejaculator urinse, and the transversus perinei. j^"^"''*'" Another muscle of the urethra is contained between the layers of the triangular ligament, and will be subsequently seen. Central 'point of the perineum. Between the urethra, and the rec- Oenirai turn is a small transverse tendinous septum, to the centre of which this name has been applied. It is placed about one inch in front of the anus, and in it the muscles acting on the rectum and urethra where are united. Its develoj)ment varies greatly in different bodies. join.^'^^ The ERECTOR PENIS (ischio-cavemosus ; fig. 144, b) is the most Erector external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end than in pen>«: the middle. It covers the crus penis : and its fibres arise from the origin; ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of the penis, and from the bone on each side of the crus. In front, the muscle is insertion; inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and the bone. Action. The muscle compresses the crus penis against the sub- use. jacent bone, and retards the escape of the blood from the corpus cavern osum by the veins : in that way it will contribute to the erection of the organ. The EJACULATOR URINiE (bulbo-CavemOSUS ; fig, 144, a) lies on Ejaculator the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides unite by a median • tendon along the middle line and in the central point of the perineum {origin). The fibres are directed outwards, curving origin at around the convexity of the urethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, ""'^'"^ ^"'^ which has the following insertion hindmost fibres end on the432 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. {nsertion by three parts; surrounds the urethra; voluntary and involun- tary. Transvcrsus perinei: origin; ends in central point; Accessory transveise nuisele. A trianp:ular space be- tween the three muscles : the knife may entei in litho- tomy. Perineal nerve has cutaneous, muscular. and genital branches. Dissection of triangular ligament. lower surface of tlie triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, whicli are the longest and best marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect, in front of the erector ; and, according, to Kobelt, they send a tendinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. The intervening fibres turn round the urethra, sur- rounding it for two inches, and join their fellows in a common tendon. The ejaculator nniscle covers the bulb and the corpus spongiosum for nearly three inches below and in front of the triangular liga- ment. If the muscle be cut through on the left side, and turned off the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the urethra, and eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into use at the end of the process, when the j)aS''^age has to be cleared. The action is involuntary in the emission of the semen. The TRANSVERSUs PERiXEi (fig. 144, c) is a small thin muscle, which lies across the perineum opposite the base of the triangular ligament. Arising fi'om the inner side of the ischial tuberosity at the fore part, it is inserted into the central point of the perineum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the sphincter ani and the ejaculator urinaj. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia curves round to join the triangular ligament. Action. From the direction of the fibres the muscle will draw l )ackwards the central jwint of the perineum, and help to fix it pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. Sometimes there is a second small fleshy strip in front of the transversalis, which has been named transversaUs alter ; this throws itself into the ejaculator muscle. The three muscles above described, when separated from eaclk other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- lator urince forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer side, and the transversus perinei the Ijase. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the super- ficial perineal vessels and nerves. The knife entering the posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy will divide the transverse muscle and artery, and pro- bably the superficial perineal A^essels and nerves. The PERiisiEAL DIVISION OF THE PUDic NERVE (p. 427) breaks up in the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa into superficial and deep branches. Its two superficial offsets have been followed to the scrotum (p. 430). The deep branches are muscular to the fore parts of the external sphincter and levator ani, to the transversus perinei, erector penis, and ejaculator urinse, and the nei^ve to the bulb, a long slender branch, which pierces the last muscle and, dividing intO' filaments, enters the hinder portion of the corpus spongiosum. Dissection (fig. 145). For the display of the triangular ligament, the muscles and the cms penis, which are superficial to it, are to be detached on the left side in the following way;—the ejaculator urina^^433 TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT. is to be removed completely from the corpus spongiosum and the surface of the ligament, and the erector muscle from the crus of the penis. Next, the crus penis is to be detached from the bone ; but this must be done with care so as not to cut the triangular ligament nor to injure, near the pubic ramus, the terminal branches of the pudic artery and the nerve to the penis. The TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT OF THE URETHRA (deep perineal Triangular aponeurosis; fig. 145, c) occupies the anterior part of the sub-Ilf ^Sra: pubic arch, and is about one inch and a half in dei)th in the middle line. On each side it is fixed to the pubic and ischial rami beneath the attacii- crus penis. Its base is turned towards the rectum, and in the middle line is united with the central point of the perineum ; while laterally it is free and sloped towards the bone, so that the ligament is deeper at the sides than in the centre. Suj^erficial to it are the bulb of the corpus spongiosum and the crura of the penis, with the a»tl wia- muscles of the anterior half of the perineal space ; and the super- ' ficial fascia joins it along the hinder border. From its deep surface some fibres of the levator ani arise ; and the thin anal fascia is con- tinued backwards from the ligament over that muscle in .the ischio- rectal fossa. * Deep dissection of the perineum (IlUistrations of Dissections). Muscles, Sc. : A. Erector penis, b. Ejaculator urin«, cut. c. Triangular ligament, inferior layer, d. External sphincter, f. Bulb of corpus spongiosum, g. Levator ani. H. Superior layer of triangular ligament, i. Constrictor urethra?, k. Crus penis, cut. Arteries : a. Pudic, in the triangular ligament, h. Dorsal of penis, c. Cavernous. d. Deep muscular branch. Nerves: 1 and 3. Dorsal of penis. 2. Perineal branch, giving offset to bulb.DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. consists of two strata : apertures in it for iiretlira, for arteries and nerves of penis ; parts bet. ween layers. Dissection. Constrictor nrethraj: attach- ments ; disposition of libres. Ti-ansverse ligament. The ligament is comjDosed of two layers of membrane (superior and inferior) which are united along the base. The superior layer is derived from the recto-vesical fascia. The inferior is a separate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres ; but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the inferior layer of the ligament, about one inch from the symphysis pubis, is the canal of the urethra ; but the margin of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Nearer the symphysis, and close to the bone on each side, the terminal part of the jDudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis (h and 3) perforate the ligament by separate apertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained the membran- ous part of the urethra, the Fiff. 146.^ constrictor urethree muscle, Cowper's glands, the pudic vessels with their branches to the bulb, and the dorsal nerves of the penis. Dissection. The muscle be- tween the layers of the liga- ment will be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the superficial stratum near its attachment to tiie bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dissection, and the removal of some veins, the fleshy fibres of the constrictor urethrse will be exposed. The CONSTRICTOR URETHRA (fig. 145, I; 146, b) extends trans- versely across the subpubic arch, enclosing the membranous -pait of the urethra in the same way as the sphincter ani externus surrounds the end of the rectum. The muscle is attached by tendinous bundles on each side to the rami of the pubis and ischium, and other fibres spring from the two layers of the triangular ligament. Between these attachments the fleshy fibres are directed transversely and obliquely across the middle line, one set passing in front of, and another behind the urethra, where they are interrupted in some cases by a small median tendon. At the anterior border of the muscle there is a short fibrous band stretching across between the inferior rami of the pubic bones, and bounding with the subpubic ligament at the lower margin of the symphysis an oval opening, through which the dorsal vein of the penis enters * The sympliysis pubis seen from above, with part of the urinary bladder and the prostate, and with the tube of the urethra surrounded by the con- strictor muscle (Santprini). a. Bladder cut open : the swelling of the prostate surrounds it in front, h. Constrictor urethra :—c. Part of the muscle before, and d, part behind the urethra.COWPER'S GLANDS. 435 the pelvis. The hindmost fibres of the constrictor are connected Deep with the central point of the perineum, and are sometimes described muscle^ separately as the tmnsversus 'perinei profiLndus. Action. This muscle acts as a sphincter in narrowing the use of membranous part of the urethra, and ejecting the contents of the constrictor, tube. It may also aid in producing erection of the penis by compressing tlie veins of the corpora cavernosa, wliich are sur- rounded by its fibres. Involuntary circular fibres within the constrictor muscle surround Circular the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about jj^ethra^ 3^^th of an inch thick ; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous above with the circular fibres of the prostate. This layer is from the a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate is tiie'buib**' the chief part, surrounding the beginning of the urethra. Action. This involuntary layer assists in moving forwards the use. urine and the semen. The glands of Cowper will be found hj cutting through some Cowper's of the hinder fibres of the constrictor muscle. They are situate ^j^^j^^^^j^ behind the membranous part of the urethra, one on each side of the size, and' middle line, and close above the bulb. Each gland is about the ^^^^i'^^*^"'*^' size of a pea, and is made up of small lobules. Connected with each is a minute duct, an inch or more in length and length, which perforates obliquely tlie wall of the urethra (corpus o7the^duct\ spongiosum), and opens into the canal about three-quarters of an inch in front of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. The nature of the secretion of the gland is not known. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and t^iey vary they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. The student may complete the examination of the i^jssection oi vessels perineum by tracing out on -the left side the pudic vessels Avith and nerve, their remaining branches, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. From the point of its division beneath the crus into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the artery is to be followed back- wards along the bone : the nerve will be found by the side of, but deeper than the artery. The PUDIC ARTERY has already been dissected in the posterior Pudic half of the perineum (p. 427). At the front of the ischio-rectal' fossa it penetrates the base of the triangular ligament, and then runs forwards close to the edge of the hip-bone (fig, 145, a), in a course and canal formed by the tendinous origin of the constrictor urethra3. About half an inch behind the symphysis pubis it jiierces the ending, inferior layer of the ligament, and immediately divides into the arteries of the cavernous structure and dorsum of the penis. It is accompanied by venae comites and the dorsal nerve of the penis. Branches Its offsets in this part of its course are :— a. Deep muscular branches (cl). As the artery is about to enter -^inscuiar. between the layers of the triangular ligament it furnishes one * See a paper on the Arrangement of tlie Muscular Fibres of the Ui-ethra, in vol. xxxix, 1856, of the Trans, of the Roy. Med. Chir. Society. F F 2436 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Artery of bulb in the triangvilar ligament; its situation varies. Artery <>f body "of penis. Artery of dorsum of penis. or more branches to tlie levator ani and sphincter, and fine twigs through the ligament to the constrictor and the urethra. b. The artery of the hulh is a branch of considerable size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing almost transversely inwards between the fibres of the constrictor muscle, about half an inch from the base of the triangular ligament, the artery reaches the upper surface of the bulb, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. The distance of this branch from the l)ase of the ligament will be influenced by its origin nearer the front or back of the perineal space. If the vessel arises earlier than usual, it may be altogether behind the ligament, and may cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation of lithotomy. c. The artery of the corpus caverriosnvi {c) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At first this vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramifies in the cavernous structure of the penis (p. 583). d. The dorsal artery of the pejiis {h) is in direction the continua- tion of the pudic ; it runs upwards between the crus and the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at p. 446. Accessory pudic artery : Accessory pudic artery. In some cases the pudic artery is not large enough to supply the branches above described to the penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will then be contributed by an accessory vessel, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this accessory artery is the internal iliac (p. 565). Pudic veins. Dorsal nor of the pen Parts cut i lithotomy. in cutting- down to " urethra. The pudic veins, two in number, have frequent communications together, so as to form a plexus round the artery ; they receive similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join them. The DORSAL NERVE OF THE PENIS has been seen in the ischio- rectal fossa (p. 428). In the anterior half of the perineum it takes a similar course to the pudic artery, but at a deeper level and in a distinct sheath, within the triangular ligament, and then pierces the superficial layer of that structure close to the inferior ramus of the pubis, to be continued with the dorsal artery to the l^enis. Its termination is described at p. 446. The nerve supplies filaments to the constrictor urethrse muscle. Parts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz., cutting down to the urethra, opening the canal, and slitting the tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incision the knife is entered near the middle line of the j^erineum, one inch in front of the anus, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as midway between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and fat, the transverse perineal muscle and artery, the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying across the ischio-rectal fossa,PARTS ENDANGERED IN LITHOTOMY. 437 and possibly the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, will be cut in this first stage of the operation. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is in reaching introduced into the front of the wound, the hinder part of the triangular ligament and constrictor urethra?, and the fore part of the levator ani will be divided ; and when the knife is placed within the groove of the start', the membranous part of the urethra will be cut with the muscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it ^"^'^^Jj^j^^g* incises in its progress the membranous portion of the urethra, part along staff, of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut, the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards, in the direction of a line from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Parts to be avoided. In the first incision in the ischio-rectal fossa, Parts to be the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the rectum, intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it ; and if the gut is not held out of the way with the forefinger of the left hand. The pudic pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be ^^^^^ wounded near the anterior part of the hollow, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament ; but, posteriorly, they are .securely lodged inside the projection of the ischial tuberosity. While making the deeper incisions to reach the staff', the artery artery of of the bulb lies immediately in front of the knife, and will be ^' wounded if the incisions are made too far forwards ; but the vessel must almost necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should recto- , . . , , . PI • vesical not be mcised- to a greater extent than is necessary tor the extraction fascia, of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perineum from the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened. Too large an incision through the prostate may wound also an and acces- unusual accessory pudic artery on the side of that body. artery^*^^^ Directions. When the dissection of the perineum is completed, Directions, tlie flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after a preservative has been aj)plied, and the limbs are to be put down for the examination of the abdomen. Section II. PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. The perineum in the female differs from that in the male more Per nemn in the external form than the internal anatomy. On the surface it hasTpecTial has special parts distinguishing it, viz., the aperture of the vagina parts.438 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Apertures of anus am vulva. External labia and com- missures. Clitoris. Internal labia. Prepuce and frgenuni of clitoris. Vestibule. Opening of urethra. Aperture of vagina. Hymen and caruncles. Fourcliette and fossa navicularis. Boundaries alike in both sexes. Dissection. Take first iscliio-rectal Then ex- amine ante- rior half of jjerineuni. and tlie siirroimding A'lilva, wHcli occupy the position of tlie scrotnm in the male. Burface-marking.—External organs of generation. In the middle line there are the aperture of the anus and the cleft of the vulva, which are separated from one another by an interval of about an inch. The anus is situate a little further back than in the male. The cleft or rima of the vulva is bounded at the sides by the lahia majora, two prominent folds, thick and rounded in front, but becoming thinner as they 23ass backwards, which correspond to the scrotum of the male. The labia are formed externally by skin, which is provided with scattered hairs, and internally by mucous membrane. They are united in front and l;)eliind in the anterior and 2)osterior commissures. Within the rima, at the fore part, is the clitoris, from whicli two folds of mucous membrane, the labia minora or nympJuv, extend backwards, one on each side of the aperture of the vagina. At its anterior end each nympha divides into two smaller folds, the outer of which unites with the one of the opposite side so as to form a kind of hood over the front of the clitoris—the ]jra'(putium clitoridis^ while the inner one, much shorter and thinner, is attached to the back of the clitoris in contact with its fellow, the two constituting the frcenulum clitoridis. Enclosed by the labia minora, and between the clitoris and the orifice of the vagina, is a median recess about an inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. At the hinder part of the A^estibule is the orifice of the urethra (meatus urinarius), surroimded by a slight eminence, about an inch behind the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. The orifice of the vagina varies much in size ; and in the child and virgin it is often partly closed behind by a thin semilunar fold of the mucous membrane—the hymen. After the destruction of the hymen, small, irregularly shaped projections, the caruncula^ myrtiformes, are found in its place. At the back of the rima, within the posterior commissure of the labia, is a narrow transverse fold of the integument called the fourchette or frcenulum lyuclendi; and to the interval between the frsenulum and the commissure the name fossa navicularis is given. Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineum are alike in both sexes ; but in the female the outlet of the j^elvis is larger than in the male. Dissect ion. The steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the male and female perineum. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made. Afterwards the muscles, vessels and nerves of the posterior half of the perineal space are to be examined. (See description of the male perineum, pj). 423 to 428.) Next, the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the perineal sj)ace, as in the male ; and the transverse incision in front is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of theANTERIOR HALF IN FEMALE. 439 Fie-. 14/ superficial fascia are then to be looked' to, and tlie cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 428). Supei-ficial fascia. The description of this fascia in the male will serve for the like part in the female, with these modili cations :—• tliat in the female it is interrupted in the middle line, and is of less extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva ; and that it is continued forwards through the labia majora to the inguinal region. In the labia the superficial fascia contains involuntary muscular fil)res, like the dartos tunic of the scrotum, as well as fat. The SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL VESSELS and NERVES, and the INFERIOR PUDENDAL NERVE liave the Same arrangement as in the male (p. 430) ; but they are distributed to the labia instead of to the scrotum. Dissection. The labia and the superficial fascia are to be removed, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. Two other muscles are exposed at the same time, viz., the erector clitoridis lying along the ramus of the ischium, and the trans- versus perinei passing across the perineum to tlie central point. The SPHINCTER VA- GINAE (bulbo-caverno- sus ; fig. 147, a) is an orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, and corre- sponds to the ejacu- lator urinae in, the male. Posteriorlyit is attached to the central point of the perineum, where it Ijlends with the sphincter ani and transversus muscles ; and its fibres are directed forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris. The muscle covers the bulb of the vestibule and the gland of Bartholin by the side of the entrance to the vagina. Action. Like the other orbicular muscles, the sphincter diminishes that part of the vagina which it encircles ; and it assists in fixing the centi-al point of the perineum. The ERECTOR CLITORIDIS (ischio-cavernosus) resembles the erector of the penis in the male, though it is much smaller (p. 431). The TRANSVERSUS PERINEI is similar to the muscle of the same name in the male. The one description will suffice for the muscle in both sexes (p. 432). Venous plexuses of the genital organs, and opening of tlie vagina (Kobelt). A. Sphincter vaginaa muscle. B. Clitoris. c. Nympha. a. Bulb of the vestibule. 1). Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris, c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris. Superficial fascia. Dartoid tissue. Superficial vessels and nerves. Dissection of the muscles. V, origin; insertion; relations ; Erector clitoridis. Superficial transverse muscle.DISSECTION OF THE PEEINEUM. To expose triangular ligament. Triangular ligament. To see deep muscle. Deep transverse muscle. Glands of Bartholin : shape and size; duct. Pudic vessels. Pudic nerve. Dissection. To see the triangular ligament of tlie urethra, the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from the bone on the left side, and the corresponding half of the sphincter vaginae is to be removed. The TRiANGULx^R LIGAMENT transmits the urethra, but is not so strongly marked as in the male (p. 433) ; it is interrupted to a large extent in the middle line by the aperture of the vagina. Dissection. By cutting through the superficial layer of the liga- ment in the same way as in the male (p. 434), the deep muscle, with the pudic vessels and their branches, and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris, will be arrived at. The TRANSVERSUS PERiNEi PROFUNDUS is the representative of the constrictor urethrse of the male. It arises on each side from the pubic and ischial rami ; and the fibres are directed inwards to be inserted mainly into the side of the vagina. The hindmost ones join the central f)oint of the perineum; and anteriorly some are continued across from side to side in front of the urethra. Beneath the last is a circular layer of involuntary fibres, as in the other sex. Glands of Bartholin. At the hinder part of the entrance to the vagina on each side is a yellowish glandular body, which corre- sponds to Cowper's gland in the male. It has the shape and size generally of a small bean, its greatest length, which is directed from before backwards, measuring about half an inch. It lies close to the hinder end of the bulb of the vestibule, and is covered by the fibres of the sphincter vagina). The duct is directed forwards and downwards for about three-quarters of an inch, to open on the inner aspect of the nympha of the same side, immediately below the hymen or its remains. The description of the pudic artery (p. 435) will serve for both sexes, except that the branch to the bulb is small, and is furnished to the bulb of the vestibule. The terminal branches are the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the clitoris, and are also much smaller than the corresponding vessels in the male. The PUDIC nerve has the same arrangement as in the male. From its perineal division proceed the two superficial nerves, branches to the superficial muscles, and an offset to the bulb. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris is of small size.CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section I. WALL OF THE ABDOMEN". The dissection is to be carried as far as the end of Sectiox III Directions (p. 499), before the body is turned for the examination of the back, dissection. Position. The body will be suthciently raised by the blocks Position of beneath the thorax and head for the dissection of the upper limbs '^o&y. and neck, but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pelvis. If the abdomen is flaccid, it may be inflated through an aperture in the umbilicus, but if it is hrm, proceed with the dissection without blowing it up. Surface-marking. On its anterior aspect the abdomen is pretty Appear- uniformly convex, especially in fat bodies ; but at the side there is surface of^^'*' a slight hollow below the ribs, and a groove marks the position of the abdo- the iliac crest. Along the middle line is a groove over the linea alba, which begins above in a depression over the ensiform j^rocess (epigastric or infrasternal fossa), and becoming gradually shallower Pit of the below, ends a little beyond the umbilicus. The latter is a round, depressed cicatrix, situate nearer to the pubic bones than to the lower end of the body of the sternum, and ojDposite, as a rule, the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebraj. On each side of the median groove is the elevation of the rectus muscle, which is intersected in adult well-formed bodies by two or three trans- verse furrows. Over the lower ends of the recti and the adjacent parts of the Eminence of pubes pubic bones the surface is somewhat elevated, owing to a slight accumulation of fat; and the name pubes has been given to this part from its thick covering of hair. This projection is especially marked in front of the bones in the female, where it is distinguished as the mons Veneris. Beneath the eminence of the pubes the student Mons will be able to recognize with his finger the symjjhysis pubis, and to trace outwards from it the osseous pubic crest, which leads to the prominent pubic spine. From this to the anterior superior iliac inguinal spine the curved inguinal furrotu extends, separating the abdomen from the thigh. If the finger be carried along the furrow it will Poupavt's detect the firm band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes one or ' two inguinal glands.442 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Abdominal rings, outer, and inner. Raise the skin from the front. Position of cutaneous nerves: on tlie side; and in front. Seek vessels ana nerves in right groin. Separate fascia in lett groin into super- ficial and deep layers. Immediately above and to tlie outer side of the pubic spine the opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt; and the promi- nence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be detected. The internal abdominal ring is farther to the outer side, but it cannot be recognized on the surface with the finger ; its position may be ascertained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and a finger's breadth above Poupart's ligament. Dissection. The requisite incisions for raising the skm from the sides and front of the belly are the following :—One cut is to extend outwards over the side of the chest from the ensiform process to* about midway between the sternum and the spine. A second in- cision is to begin at the symjDliysis pubis, and to be carried outwards along Poupart's ligament and the iliac crest till it ends opposite the first cut. Lastly, the hinder extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the side of the chest and belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, but is not to be taken away; and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to- be sought in the fat at the side and front of the abdomen. Along the side of the abdomen look for the lateral cutaneous^ nerves, five or six in numl)er, which issue in a line with the corre- sj)onding nerves of the thorax. At first they lie beneath the fat,, and divide into two : one offset is to be traced forwards and the other backwards, Avith small cutaneous arteries. On tlie iliac crest, near the front, is a large branch from the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back on the crest, and deej)er, is a smaller branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous nerves will be recognized with small arteries ; these are uncertain in number and size, and are to be followed outwards in the fat. In the inguinal region the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side, and the superficial fascia on the left. For this purpose, all the fascia superficial to the vessels is to be removed from the right groin. The vessels which will then appear are the superficial pudic internally, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial circumflex iliac artery exter- nally. Some inguinal glands lie along the line of Poupart's liga- ment. Two cutaneous nerves are to be sought:—one, the ilio- inguinal, comes through the external abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh and scrotum ; the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, and rather outside the abdominal ring. In the examination of the superficial fascia on the left side two strata are to be made out, one over and one beneath the vessels. The layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be reflected by means of a transverse cut directed inwards from the front of the iliac crest, and by a vertical one near the middle line to the pubic bone. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer ; and when these are reached, a triangular flap of the fascia is to be thrown towards, the thigh. To define the thinner deep stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other layer, and detach it carefully with theSUPERFICIAL FASCIA OF GEOIN. 443 vessels from the tendon of tlie external oblique muscle. Tliis stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum ; and as the student follows it downwards, he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and blended with the fascia lata close below that structure. The SUPERFICIAL FASCIA is a single layer over the greater part of Superficial the abdomen ; but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous ^^^^'^ and a deeper stratum by the vessels and the glands. Into two^ The subcutaneous layer contains the fat, and varies therefore in layers.', appearance and thickness in different bodies ; for it is sometimes ^^^1^^^!^^.'^'"' divisible into strata, Avhile at others it is very thin, and somewhat layer con- membranous near the thigh. It is continuous with the fatty ^'""'^ covering of the thigh and abdomen; and when traced to the limb, it is separated from Poupart's ligament beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the j^enis and except in scrotum, where it changes its adipose tissue for involuntary mus- and scro- cular fibre ; and after investing the testicle, it is prolonged to the tum. perineum. The deeper layer (fascia of Scarpa) is thinner and more mem- Deeper branous than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the imi mein-'''' external obi icjue by fibrous bands along the linea alba. Like the > subcutaneous part, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, j.^g^g^g ^nd and inwards to the penis and the scrotum, through Avhich it is pro- disposition; longed to the perineum, Avhere it has attachments to the subjacent parts, as before specified (p. 429). Towards the limb, it ends a and ends on little below Poupart's ligament by joining the fascia lata across the fascia lata, front of the thigh. Urine effused in the perineum from rupture of the urethra will Attach- be directed through the scrotum and along the spermatic cord to nli'ne comse" the abdomen (p. 430). From the arrangement of the deeper layer of effuse<i of the fascia across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb^ though its progress over the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the superficial fascia of the groin is separable into Faseia in two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the ^^'^ female, male ; but the part that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex, enters the labium in the other. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in it. Cutaneous Nerves. The skin of the abdomen is supplied Cutaneous mainly by the lower intercostal nerves : thus, the cutaneous branches ^^'^^^^ along the side of the belly are offsets from five or six of those nerves ; and the cutaneous branches along the front are the terminal are derived parts of the same trunks. Two other cutaneous offsets from the sources!^ lumbar plexus, viz., ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The LATERAL CUTANEOUS NERVES of the abdomen emerge between Lateral the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line with the iS^ercoatai!'^ same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the most which posterior. As soon as they reach the surface they divide, with the divide into exception of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch :—DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. posterior and anterior branches. Last dorsal nerve. Anterior cutaneous nerves of intercostal. Ilio-hypo- gastric of lumbar plexus: iliac brancli liypogastric brancli. Uio-inguinal nerve of the plexus. Vessels Avith nerves; . both lateral and anterior cutaneous. From femoral artery three branches: external pudic, superficial epigastric, The posterior branches are small, and are directed back to the integuments over the latissimiis dorsi muscle. The anterior branches are continued forwards nearly to the edge of the rectus muscle, and increasing in size from above down, supply the integuments on the side of the belly : they furnish off- sets to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is larger than, and does not divide like the others. After jDiercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region (p. 637). The ANTERIOR CUTANEOUS NERVES of the abdomen pierce the sheath of the rectus: in the integuments they bend outwards towards the lateral cutaneous nerves. The number and the situation of these small nerves are very uncertain. The iLio-HYPOGASTRic NERVE is distributed by two pieces : one passes over the crest of the ilium (iliac branch) ; the other ramifies on the lower part of the abdomen (hypogastric branch) :— (a) The iliac branch lies close to the crest of the hip-bone near the last dorsal nerve, and enters the fat of the gluteal region (p. 638). (6) The hypogastric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle above the abdominal ring, and is distributed to the skill of the lower part of the abdomen. The iLio-iNGUiNxiL NERVE becomes cutaneous through the external abdominal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum, and upper and inner part of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous vessels run with both sets of nerves on the abdomen; with the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries; and with the an- terior cutaneous are offsets from the internal mammary and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial l)ranches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, epigastric, and circum- ffex iliac. The LATERAL CUTANEOUS ARTERIES have the same distribution as the nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The ANTERIOR cutaneous ARTERIES are irregular in number and in position, like the nerves. After piercing the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the nerves towards the other set of branches. Branches of the femoral artery. Three cutaneous offsets ascend from the thigh between the layers of the superficial fascia, and ramify in the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of the abdomen. The beginning of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh. The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the spermatic cord, to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the under part of the penis. The superficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligamentSUPERFICIAL PARTS OF PENIS. 445 near tlie centre, and is distributed in tbe fat ]iearly as liigli as tlie umbilicus. The circumflex iliac branch lies below the level of Poupart's liga- circumflex ment, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. The companion veins to these arteries join the internal saphenous Veins, vein of the thigh. The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF THE GROIN are three 01' four in num- inguinal l)er, and lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. They are placed ^^^^^^" between the strata of the superficicil fascia ; and recei\'e lymphatics from the abdominal wall, from the gluteal region and perineum, from the upper and outer jiortion of the thigh, and from - the super- ficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass down- ducts enter wards to the saphenous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. ^^^^^^J"^^- Dissection. After the examination of the superficial fascia with Dissection its vessels and nerves, the student may prepare the cutaneous cover- of coverings , mi 1 1 01 penis ami mgs of the penis and scrotum. The skin should be divided along testicle. the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected on the left side by means of a vertical incision. Cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. The penis xegumen- is attached to the front of the pelvis by a suspensory lio;anient, and t^^^'^ cover- . . . -, mg of penis IS provided with a tegumentary covering continuous with that of the is thin, and abdomen, but devoid of fat. without fat, Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way:—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the prejmce : it is after- forms wards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous membrane of I'^'^'i*"''*' the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a small triangular fold, frcenum jJnqjiitii. andfra-num. Where the ^skin covers the glans, it is inseparably united with sebaceous that part, is very thin and sensitive, being provided with papillfe, gian^is- and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glandulm odoriferoi. In the scrotum the two layers of the superficial fascia of the groin Teguments l)ecome united in a thin membrane of a reddish colour. The pro- scrotum, longation around the testicle on one side is separate from that on the other side ; and the two pouches, coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and front of the Muscular perineum contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the corru- "asc^ja^ gation of the skin is owing. This contractile structure is named the dartoid tissue. Dissection. By removing all the fatty tissue from the root of the Dissection penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament nerves, will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nerves, with the dorsal vein of the penis, which will be partly laid Imre, are to be followed forwards to the glans. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a l^and of fibrous tissue. Suspensory446 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. lisameiit of penis : attach- ments ; contains A^essels and nerves. Source of vessels and nerves. Dorsal artery of penis. Dorsal vein ends in prostatic plexus. Dorsal nerv of pudie. Vessels on clitoris. To expose external oblique muscle. Precautions To define abdominal ring. On the side are three flat muscles, of a triangular form, wliicli is attaclied l)y its apex to the front of the symphysis j)n^his. Widening below, it is fixed to the upper surface of the hody of the penis, and is prolonged for some distance on the organ. Perforating the ligament at its junction with the jDenis are the dorsal vessels and nerves. Dorsal Vessels and Nerves. The arteries and nerves on the dorsum of the penis are branches of the pudic trunks of "both sides (p. 436). The vein accompanying the arteries enters the pelvis below the symphysis pubis. The DORSAL ARTERY, One on each side, pierces the suspensory ligament, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends in many branches for that structure : in its course the vessel supplies the integuments and the body of the i3enis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 436). The DORSAL VEIN is a single trunk, and commences by numerous l)ranches from the glans penis and the prepuce. It runs backwards, l)etween the two arteries, through the suspensory ligament, and then through a special opening below the subpubic ligament (p. 434), to join the prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches from the erectile structure and the integuments of the penis. Each DORSAL NERVE takes the same course as the artery, and ends like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes twigs to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, sides, and pre^uice of the penis. In the female these vessels and nerves are much smaller than in the male, and occupy the upper surface of the clitoris—the organ tliat represents the penis. Dissection of the muscles. The surface of the external muscle of the abdominal wall (fig. 148) is now to be freed from fascia on both sides of tiie bod}^ It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because there it has a thin aponeurosis, which may be taken away too readily with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to carry the knife obliquely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeurosis before referred to is in front of a line extended upwards from the anterior end of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be careful not to injure the tendon, more particularly above, where it lies on the margin of the ribs, and is very indistinct. On the right side tlie external abdominal ring (c) may be defined, to show the spermatic cord passing through it; but on the left side a thin fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to l)e preserved. Lastly, the free border of the external oblique should be made evident between the last rib and the iliac crest. Muscles of the Abdominal Wall. On the side of the abdomen are three large flat muscles, which are named from their position to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial muscle is the external oblique ; the underlying one, the internal oblique ; and the deepest, the transversalis.447 EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. Fig. 148.* Nearer the middle line are placed other muscles which have a vertical direction. In front lie the rectus and pyraniidalis, and behind is the (|uadratus lumLorum : these are encased by sheaths derived from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 148, a) is fleshy on the side, and aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by fleshy processes from the eight lower ribs, the five highest pieces alternating with similar parts of the serratus magnus, and the lowest three with slips of the latissimus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs the fibres are directed over the side of the abdomen to end in the following manner :—the lower ones descend almost vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of the iliac crest, at the outer margin ; and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards obliquely to the tendon or aponeurosis on the front of the belly. The aponeurosis occupies the front of the abdomen, internal to a line drawn from the pro- minence of the ninth rib-cartilage to a point about an inch and a half in front of the anterior supe- rior iliac spine ; and it is broader below than above. Along the middle line this expansion ends in the linea alba—the common place of imion of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued over the thorax to the pectoralis major muscle. Below, its fibres are stronger and more distinct than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis ;—some of them are fixed to the front of the pubis ; and the rest are collected into a firm band, Fonpart's ligament (b), between the pubic spine and the iliac crest. Relations. The muscle is sul^cutaneous. Its posterior border is unattached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but is overlapped commonly by the edge of the latissimus dorsi, except for a short distance below. At the outer jiart of the aponeurosis is a curved white line, the linea semilunaris., marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle (fig. 152) ; and crossing between this and the linea alba are three or four somewhat irregular lines—the linece transversce. the aponeu- roses of which en- ease three verticaL External oblique muscle : origin from ribs: position above and below. Relations. Lines on the aponeu- rosis : * A. External oblique muscle. B. Poupart's ligament. c. External abdominal ring. d. Gimbcrnat's ligament.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 448 apertures Numerous small apertures in the tendon transmit cutaneous vessels ' and nerves ; and near the pubis is the large opening of the external abdominal abdominal ring (c), which gives passage to the spermatic cord in the ""S- male, and to the round ligament in the female. Use of both Action. Both muscles taking their fixed point at the pelvis will actiWrom ^^^^ ^^^^ trunk forwards ; but supposing the spine fixed, they will pelvis, draw down the ribs. If they act from the thorax they will elevate and thorax ; the pelvis. one muscle Should one muscle contract it will incline the trunk to the same acting; gj^jg^ qj. paise the pelvis, according as the upper or the lower attach- ment may be moveable ; or if the trunk is prevented from being bent, it will turn the thorax to the opposite side, influence on The external oblique also acts powerfully with the other broad cavST'"^^ muscles in flattening the wall and diminishing the cavity of the abdomen, and in forcing up the diaphragm during expiration by means of pressure transmitted through the abdominal viscera. Parts of the aponeurosis. Besides the general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line, the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin, and the thickened border named Poupart's ligament. In the linea Linea alba (fig. 152). This white band on the front of the alba the abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of opposite are uniSi? sides. It extends from the ensiform process to the pubic symphysis, and is wider above than below. It is perforated here and there by small apertures, which allow pellets of fat to j)rotrude in some below bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which now umbilicus pi'ojects beyond the surface, though before the skin was removed, a hollow indicated its position. External External abdominal ring (fig. 148, c). This opening is situate abdominal near the pubis, between the diverging fibres of the aponeurosis. It is """ ard somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the pubic crest, and situation; the apex directed upwards and outwards. The long measurement size; of the aperture is about an inch, and the transverse about half an inch. inner side or 1^'^ margins are named pillars, and difter in form and strength, pillar; The inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the front of the symphysis pubis, where it decussates wdth the corresponding piece of the opposite side. The outer margin is stronger, and is outer pillar; curved, SO as to form a kind of groove for the support of the spermatic cord : this margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament,, fascia pro- and is attached below to the pubic spine. A thin membrane (inter- longed from columnar fascia), derived from some fibres on the surface of the margm; . " aponeurosis, covers the openmg. objects The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, and in through. female to the round ligament ; and in each sex the transmitted part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering from the intercolumnar fascia. Through this aperture an inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. Intereolun;- The intercolumnar fibres run transverselv on the surface of the nar fibres :APONEUEOSIS OF EXTERNAL OELIUUE. 449 aponeurosis, and bind together its parallel fibres, so as to construct a firm membrane. Interiorly, where they are strongest, some well- attachment marked bundles are connected with the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and the anterior end of the iliac crest. At the external abdominal ring the fibres stretch from side to side, and close the upper end of that opening ; and as they are prolonged on the cord ^yg^^'/,^'^. from the margin of the ring, they give rise to a membrane named ooiumnar the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is entire, this thin covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament in the female. Dissection. To see the attachments and connections of Poupart's To see ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both sides of the body, poupart's"'^ the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh, as in fig. 153. ligament, For this purpose an incision is to be carried inwards, through the aponeurosis, from the front of the iliac crest to a spot about three inches from the linea alba ; and the tendon is to be detached from throw down the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel. When the external aponeurosis cannot be separated farther from the tendons beneath, ^jblique, near the linea alba, it is to be cut in the direction of a line descend- ing to the symphysis pubis. After the triangular piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown anci show towards the thigh, the spermatic cord is to be dislodged from the flS"^'*'^ surface of Poupart's ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the pubis, and to lay bare the fibres (triangular fascia) which ascend therefrom to the linea alba. Pouparfs ligament (fig. 149, D) is the lower border of the aponeu- Poupart's rosis of the external oblique, which is thickened and folded back- ^^s^''^^"* • wards, so as to form a slight groove with the concavity upwards. In the hollow of the ligament the lowest fibres of the internal oblique and transversal is muscles, and the cremaster take their origin. Externally it appears round and cord-like, and is attached outer and to the anterior superior iliac spine. Internally it widens as it inner attach- approaches the pubis (fig. 148, d), and is inserted into the pubic - spine and the pectineal line of the hip-bone for about three-quarters forms of an inch, forming a triangular piece with its base directed out- li^lfeJ™'' *^ wards, which is named Gimbernat's ligament (fig. 151). By its lower border Poupart's ligament joins the fascia lata of the itsdirectiun, thigh ; and so long as this membrane remains uncut, the band is curved with its convexity downwards, especially when the limb is extended on the trunk. The outer half of the ligament is oblique, and parts in and is firmly united with the subjacent iliac fascia: its inner half ^^^^^^^^^ ^^^'^^ is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh. Triangular fascia. From the insertion of Gimbernat's ligament Triangular into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin sheet, to which the above name has been given. Dissection. The upper part of the external oblique is now to be Dissection taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts beneath. It fnternaT^ may be detached by carrying the scalpel through the digitations on oblique.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 460 Clean tlie ereinaster. Parts covered l)y external oblique. Internal oblique muscle: origin from pelvis; insertion into the ribs and linea alba. Aponeurosis di^^des to enclose rectus, the ribs back to the free border, and then through the insertion into the iliac crest. The muscle is to be thrown forwards as far as practicable, after the nerves crossing the iliac crest are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs above, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique at the upper part. By the removal of the fatty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves issuing through it below, w^ill be prepared. At the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle on the cord is to be defined (fig. 150) ; it is about as wide as the little finger, and consists of Heshy loops which descend through the external abdominal ring. Its inner attachment is tendinous, and is easily taken away. Parts covered by the external oblique (fig. 149). Beneath the external muscle are the internal oblique, with parts of the ribs and intercostal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the muscle conceals the spermatic cord, and the branches of the lum- bar plexus in the abdominal wall. The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fi.g. 149, a) is fleshy at the side and aj^oneurotic in front, like the preceding : but its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external oblique. The muscle arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum : c) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their destination The upper ones ascend, and have a fleshy insertion into the cartilages of the last three ribs, w^here the}^ join the internal intercostal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The remaining fibres pass forwards, with varying degrees of obliquity, to the aponeurosis. The a])oneurosis of the muscle extends from the thorax to the pelvis, and is broader above than below. For the most part it is * A. Internal oblique muscle, b. Latissimus dorsi, cut. c. Part of tlie hinder tendon of the transversalis muscle, d. Poupart's hgament. e. Ex- ternal, F, internal intercostals.INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 451 split to encase the rectus ; but in the lower half of the space between the umbilicus and pubis it is undivided, and lies altogether in front of that muscle. Along the middle line the two layers are united together, as well as with those of the opposite side, in the linea alba. Superiorly it is arranged in the following mariner :— for a short distance before it divides, the aponeurosis is fixed to the ninth costal cartilage ; and the posterior layer continues this attach- ment along the eighth and seventh cartilages to the ensiform process; while the anterior layer is prolonged over the chest, being blended with the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and except below; attachments to chest, separate from each other, and Fig- 150.* are inserted into the front of the pubis, and into the pec- tineal line for half an inch behind the attacliment of Gimbernat's ligament. Relations. The internal is covered by the external ol)- lique muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's ligament and the pubis, where it arches over the cord, and has the cre- master muscle contiguous to it. The parts covered by the internal oblique will be seen when the muscle is reflected. Action. Both muscles will depress the ribs, and will assist in forcing back the viscera of the belly, which have been protruded by the descent of the diaphragm. One muscle may incline the body laterally ; and con- tracting with the opposite external oblique (the fibres of the two having the same direction) it will rotate the trunk to the same side. The CREMASTER MUSCLE (fig. 140, d) is a muscular slip which lies along the lower border of the internal oblique, and is named from suspending the testicle. The muscle has attachments, at the inner and outer sides, similar to those of the lowest fibres of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and arises from Poupart's ligament below, and in part beneath the internal oblique, with which some of the fibres are connected. Internally it is narrow, and is and pelvis. Use of both muscles. Cremaster muscle: attach- ments ; external fleshy, * View of the lower part of the internal oblique, witli the cremaster muscle and the testicle, a. External oblique, reflected, b. Internal oblique, c. Rectus abdominis. ]>. Cremaster, with its loops over the spermatic cord and the testicle. G G 2452 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. intei'iial tendinous; forms loops over the cord, giving rise to creinas- teric fascia Fiff. 151, ii'sertt'd by tendon into the front of the pubis, joining the tendon of the internal oblique. Between the two points of attachment the fibres descend on the front and sides of the cord, forming loops with the convexity down- ^vards, which reach to and over the testis. The bundles of fibres are unitecl by areolar tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front of the cord, Avhich is named the cremasteric fascia. Occasionally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides and front of the cord. Arfiov. It elevates the testicle towards the abdomen, and in some cases is under the influence of tlie will ; but it may be excited to contract invo- luntarily l)y cold, fear, &c. Dissection. On the left side of the body the student is not to make any farther dissection of the abdominal wall ; and the layers that have been reflecred in the groin should be replaced^ until the examination of that region is resumed in connection with hernia. On the right side the dissection is to ]je carried deeper by the removal of the internal oblique and the cremaster. The last muscle may be reflected from the cord by means" of a longitudinal incision. To raise the internal o]> lique, it will be necessary to cut it through firstly near the ribs, secondly along the crest of the ilium and Poupart's ligament, and lastly at the hinder part, so as to connect the tirst two incisions. Its depth will be indicated by a fatty layer between it and the transversalis, and hy a branch of artery between the two muscles near the anterior superior iliac spine (fig. 153, 6). In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the transver- salis with which they are often conjoined ; and dissect out, between, the two, the intercostal nerves and arteries, and the two branches- * A. Transversalis muscle, with b, its anterior, and c, its posterior tendon (fascia lumborum). d. Poupart's hgament, 1. Last dorsal nerve with its. accompanying artery.2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artery, f f Inter- costal nerves and arteries.TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE. 453 of the lumbar plexus (ilio-liypogastric and ilio-ingniiial) near tlie fore part of the ilium. Tlie offsets entering the muscle must be <;ut. Farts covered by the internal oblique (fig. 151). The internal Parts oblique conceals the transversalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves hiternai'^^ Ijetween the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic oblique. <:ord and the transversalis fascia. The rectus muscle is covered below by the aponeurosis. The TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE (fig. 151, a) fomiS the third stratum Transveisa- in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblique mus- ^'^ '"^^^^^^ • rles in having a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the internal oblique it is attached on all sides, except where the s])ermatic cord lies. At the pelvis it arises from the outer third of ">iigm tvotu Poupart's ligament, and the anterior two-thirds of the iliac crest and pelvis; along the inner border; at the chest it takes origin by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the lower six costal cartilages ; and between the chest and the pelvis it is connected with the lumbar tibres end iu \'ertebra3 by means of the posterior aponeurosis or the fascia lum- '^i'^^^^^^^^^''- borum. All the fibres are directed to the aponeurosis in front. Its anterior aponeurosis is widest in the centre, and narroAvest at Jiu; aponcu- the upper end. Internally it is continued to the linea alba, passing jjehind^^^^ ^ beneath the rectus as low as midway between the umbilicus and the ^^^^^^^^ pubis, but in front of the muscle below that spot. Its attachment i,nver pait. below to the pelvis is nearly the same as the internal oblique ; for it is fixed to the Iront of the pubis, and to the pectineal line for about an inch. Some of the fibres end on the transversalis fascia. Fibres to and are connected beneatli Poupart's ligament with a thickened band of that fascia which is called the deep crural aich. Action. The transversalis muscle draws do^mwards the lower ribs. Use. and diminishes the abdominal cavity, compressing the viscera and forcing upwards the diaphragm. Conjoined temlon. The aponeuroses of the internal oblicpie and At pelvis transversalis muscles are united near their attachment to the j^ubis, t?,"ijoi„ed and give rise to the conjoined tendon. The aponeurosis of the tendon, oblique muscle extends about half an inch along the pectineal line ; while that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge, and forms the greater part of the conjoined tendon. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the fascia lum- rosterior borum (c), is described in the dissection of the back, p. 392. aponeurosis. Relations. Superficial to the transversalis are the two muscles Relations of before examined ; and beneath it is the thin transversalis fascia. ^'''^^^^ Its fleshy attachments to the ribs alternate with like processes of the diaphragm ; and the highest slip joins the lower edge of the triangularis sterni muscle. The lower border of the transversalis is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half, and is arched above the internal abdominal ring. Dissection. To remove the aponeurotic layer from the rectus ]:.\]jose muscle of the right side, make a longitudinal incision through the J™?,iauiis. tendinous sheath, and turn it to each side. As the fascia is reflected, its union with three or more tendinous bands across the rectus will454 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Leave the left side. Rectus muscle: origin from pubis ; inserlion into rib- cartilages liiis cross tendons; use OH trunk, on abdomen Its sheath : how formed have to be cut througli; and near the pubis a small muscle, the pyramidalis, will be exposed. The dissector should leave the nerves entering the outer border of the rectus. On the left side of the body the rectus should not be laid bare below the umbilicus, in order that the special dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia may be made on this side. The RECTUS MUSCLE (fig. 152, a) extends along the front of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest. It is narrowest below, where it arises from the pelvis Fig. 152. by two tendinous pro- cesses :—one, the internal and smaller, is attached to the front of the sym- physis pubis in common with that of the opposite side ; and the external process springs from the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the rectus is inserted by three large lleshy and tendinous slips into the cartilages of the last three true ribs, the outermost slip iLsually extending to the bone of the fifth rib. Some of the inner fibres are often attached to the ensiform process. The muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath, except above and below ; and its fibres are inter- ruj)ted at intervals by ir- regular tendinous lines— the inscriptiones tendinea. Action. It will draw down the thorax and the ribs, or raise the pelvis, according as its fixed point may be below or above. Besides . imparting movement to the trunk, it will diminish the cavity of the abdomen, and compress the viscera. Sheath of the rectus (d). This sheath is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the ; rectus. One piece passes before, and the other behind the muscle ; and the two unite at the inner border so as to complete the sheath. Inseparably blended wiih the stratum in front of the rectus is the * Eectus muscle of the abdomen, dissected on the right side, and in its. sheath on the left. Close to the pelvis the pyramidahs is exposed. A. llectus. B. Internal oblique, c. Poupart's ligament. D. Anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus.455 SHEATH OF RECTUS. aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar manner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The anterior layer of the sheath adheres closely to the tendinous inter- sections of the muscle. The sheath is deficient behind, both at the upper and lower end deficient of the muscle. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the'J^jo^^/^"** intervention of the sheath, which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, at, or somewhat above, a point midway between the umbilicus and pubis, the aponeurosis of the internal oblique ceases to split, and then passes altogether in front of the rectus, with the other aponeuroses. When the rectus is raised, the termination of the hinder layer of the sheath is seen to be marked by a more or less distinct white line, concave towards the pubis, which is termed the semilunar fold of Douglas: below this the rectus is in contact Fold of with the transversalis fascia. Douglas. The linece transversce (fig. 152) on the front of the sheath are Linear caused by the tendinous intersections of the rectus. The most constant are three in number, and have the following j^osition ; one lnore; is opposite the umbilicus, another at the lower end of the ensiform situation, process, and the third midway between the tvro. If there is a fourth it will be placed below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole depth or breadth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and beloAV. Lined semilunaris (fig. 152). This line corresponds with the J^'"*"''^.-'*^'"': 1 !• 1 T T n 1 -1 f ^ -1 lunaris IS at outer edge oi the rectus, and reaches from the cartilage of the ninth edge of rib to the j)ubic spine of the hip-bone : it marks the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The PYRAMiDALis MUSCLE (fig. 152) is triangular in form, and is Pyramidaiis • iiiuscIg ' placed in front of the lower end of the rectus. It a^^ises by its base from the front of the pubis, and is inserted into the linea alba below attach- the mid-point between the umbilicus and the pelvis. This small muscle is often absent. Action. The muscle renders tense the linea alba; and when large it may slightly assist the rectus in compressing the viscera. Nerves of the Abdominal Wall (fig. 151). Between the Nerves in internal oblique and transversalis muscles are situate the intercostal aMomeii nerves; and near the pelvis are two branches of the lumbar plexus, viz., the ilio-liypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves. Some arteries accompany the nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 45.9). The lower five intercostal nerves (f ]') enter the wall of intercostal the abdomen from the intercostal spaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the nerves are directed forwards to the edge are between of the rectus, and through this muscle to the surface of the abdomen t^ansver-"^^ near the middle line (p. 444). About midway between the spine saiis; and the linea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous branches to the side of the ubdomen (lateral cutaneous ; p. 443) ; and while between the oiTsets. abdominal muscles they supply muscular branches and offsets of com- munication with one another. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is visible, owing to the shortness of the inferior spaces.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 456 Last dorsal nerve. Ilio-hyp( gastric nerve: iliac part and hypo- gastric ])ait. llio-iijguiiial nerve. Dissection of transver- salis fasci;i. Transver- salis fascia is best marked in the groin ; pierced by internal abdominal ring. Entling of fascia below Situatioi) of The LAST DORSAL NERVE C) is placed below the twelfth rib, and therefore not in an intercostal sj^ace, but it has a similar course and distribution to the foregoing. As it extends forwards to the rectus it communicates sometimes with the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles (p. 444). The ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC NERVE (^) perforates the back of tlie transversalis muscle near the iliac crest, and divides into iliac and hypogastric branches. The iliac branch pierces both oblique muscles close to the crest of the ilium, to reach the gluteal region (p. 638). The hypogastric branch is directed forwards above the hip-bone, giving twigs to the transverse and internal oblique muscles, and communicating with the ilio-inguinal nerve. It perforates the fleshy part of the internal oblique near the front of the iliac crest, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique near the linea alba, fhially becoming cutaneous in the liypogastric region (p. 444). The ILIO-INGUINAL NERVE perforates the transversalis muscle near the front of the iliac crest. It afterwards pierces the internal oblique, and reaches the surface through the external abdominal ring (p. 444) : it furnishes offsets to the internal oblique, the trans- versalis, and the pyramidalis. Dissection. To see the transversalis fascia on the right side, it Avill be necessary to raise the lower part of the transversalis muscle by two incisions :—one of these is to be carried through the fibres attached to Poupart's ligament ; the other, across the muscle from the front of the iliac crest to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily from the thin fascia beneath. The TRANSVERSALIS FASCIA (tig. 153, g) is a thin fibrous layer l)etween the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. In the inguinal region, where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is considerably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by some tendinous fibres of the transversalis muscle ; but farther from the pelvis it gradually decreases in strength, until at the thorax it becomes very thin. In the part of the lascia now laid bare is the internal abdominal ring, Avhich gives passage to the spermatic cord, or the round liga- ment of the uterus, according to the sex ; it resembles the hole into the finger of a glove in being visible from within, but not externally, owing to the fascia being prolonged from its margin on the cord. On the inner side of the ring the fascia is thinner than on the outer, and is fixed to the body of the pubis, and to the ilio-iiectineal line behind the conjoined tendon, with which it is united. Along the outer half of Pou]iart's ligament the fascia ends by joining the posterior margin of that band, and it will be afterwards seen to unite Avith the iliac fascia for the same extent (p. 469) ; but Ijeneath the inner half of the ligament it is continued downwards to the thigh, in front of the blood-vessels, to form the anterior part of the crural sheath around them. Internal abdominal ring (fig. 153). This opening is situate mid-457 SPEEMATIC COIID. way between tlie symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac internal spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin ring?"""^ «'i thin tubular prolongation of the fascia (infundibuliform fascia) is continued around the cord as before said. Dissection. The tubular prolongation on the cord may be traced iJiwsectiou by cutting the transversalis fascia horizontally above the opening of process on the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With tlie handle of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoncsal fat. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the transversalis Subperi- fascia and the peritoneum. Its tliickness Aaries much in different fn'oTOin^"^"' bodies, but is greater at the lower than at the upper part of the abdomen. This structure will be more specially noticed in the examination of the wall oi the abdomen from the inside. Dissection. After the subjieritoneal fat has been seen, let it be Trace re- reflected to look for the remains of a piece of peritoneum along the ^"eHtoneuni. cord, in the form of a fibrous thread. The peritoneum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects Peritoneum forwards slightly opposite the internal abdominal ring. Connected J'^* prolonged with it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolonga- on the cord: tion to the testis in the fcetus) Avhich extends a variable distance ^ilong the front of the cord. It is generally impervious, and can be piece may followed only a very short way ; but it may sometimes be traced as vL"",^'^^ a fine band to the tunica vaginalis oi the testis. In some bodies the i)rocess may be partly open, being sacculated or saccu- iit intervals ; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in front of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, the tube of peritoneum receiv- or open, ing the testis in the foetus may be unclosed, so that a coil of intestine oould descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the foetal tube of peritoneum sometimes remains fomaie pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament; the pa^iy^open. anobliterated pojich is named the canal of Nack. The SPERMATIC CORD (fig. 153, v) extends from the internal Spernmtic iibdominal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and the efferent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or tlnujugh which they pass. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, since its is oblLpie iu ^iperture oi entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture oi exit wall, from, the muscles : but escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. In the oblique part of its and \ erticai <^ourse it is contained in the passage named the inguinal canal; it ^•^^'^"'^^5 is placed at first beneath the internal oblique, and rests against the transversalis fascia; but beyond the lower border of the oblique relations; muscle, it lies on the upper surface of Poupart's ligament, with the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from the strata in the wall of coverings, the abdomen. Thus, from within out come—the subperitoneal fat, the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia, the cremaster muscle continuous with the internal oblique, the intercolumnar orDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 458 In female round liga - ment is in place of cord. ■ Dissection, Constitu- ents of the cord. Vessel ill- female. Vas defe- rens : situation and eom'se. Artery and nerve of the coverings of the cord ; and cuta- neous. Dissection of deep arch. and of the vessels in the wall of abdomen. Deep crural arch : attach ments. spermatic fascia from the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The round ligament, or the sus]3ensory cord of the uterus, occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments of the groin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord,, except that it wants the cremaster. Dissection. The constituents of the cord will be displayed by cutting through longitudinally, and turning aside the different sur- rounding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric artery into the cremasteiic covering. Vessels and nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and veins, which convey the blood to and from the testicle, the nerves and lymphatics of the testicle, and the vas- deferens or the efferent duct. In the female a hranch from the ovarian artery enters the round ligament. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is- placed behind the other constituents of the cord ; it will be recog- nised by its resemblance in feel to a piece of whipcord, when it is- taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen through the opening in the transversalis fascia (internal ring), it lies- on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it begins its- descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the cord has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived from the epigastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The genital hranch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord l^y the internal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Cutaneous vessels and nerves are supplied to the integumentf- covering the cord from the superlicial pudic artery and the ilio- inguinal nerve. Dissection. By cutting through the spermatic cord near the pubis,, and raising it towards the internal abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, will appear: it. passes inwards to the pubis, and is to be defined with some care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epigastric and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal mammary artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary arteries will be found on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one above, and the other below, ramifying in the muscle. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced by removing the transversalis fascia from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's- ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. Deep crural arch. Below the level of Poupart's ligament is a thin band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has re- ceived the name deep crural arch from its position and resemblance to the superficial crural arch (Poupart's ligament). This fasciculus- of fibres, beginning about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged459 VESSELS OF ABDOMINAL WALL. inwards to the pubis, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the deep aspect of the conjoined tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen.* It is closely connected with the front of the crural sheath. Vessels in the Wall op the Abdomen. On the side of the Vessels in abdomen are some of the intercostal and lumbar arteries w^ith the wall, nerves. In the sheath of the rectus lie the epigastric aud internal mammary vessels. And running along the crest of the ilium is the circumflex iliac branch. The INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES of the lowest twO spaces issue intercostal between the corresponding ribs (p. 370), and enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis and internal oblicjue muscles : they extend forwards with, the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and forming anastomoses with the internal mammary, e2:)igastric and lumbar arteries. Lumbar arteries. The anterior branches of the lumbar arteries i-uiui.ai- supply the muscles in the hinder part of the alxlominal wall, and anastomose with the foregoing arteries above, with the circumflex iliac and ilio-lumbar arteries below. The highest artery accom- panies the last dorsal nerve below the twelfth rib, and is distributed ■>vith the nerve. From the lowest lumbar artery a branch passes to the integuments with the iliac part of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Internal mammary artery. The abdominal branch of this intenuii vessel (superior epigastric artery; p. 264) enters the wall of the artery, abdomen beneath the cartilage of tlie seventh rib. Descending in the sheath of the rectus, the vessel soon enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epigastric artery. Branches are given to the neighbouring muscles and tlie overlying integu- ment. Tlie EPIGASTRIC artery (fig. 153, a) arises from the external iliac J^j^^^^;^^' about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends epigastric in the sheath of the rectus, and above the umbilicus divides into artery: branches which enter that muscle, and anastomose with the internal mammary. As the artery courses to the rectus it passes beneath the spermatic relations 1 / I T 1^ 1 N T 1 • • T L' in wall of cord (or round ligament oi the uterus), and on the inner side oi the abdomen, internal abdominal ring ; and it is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, so as to form the outer boundary of a triangular space along the edge of the rectus. It lies at first beneath the transversalis fascia ; but it soon perforates that mem- brane, and enters the sheath of the rectus over the semilunar border of the posterior layer. The branches of the artery are numerous, but inconsiderable in Branches: size :— a. The i^uhic branch is a small artery, which runs transversely ^^^urator ^ * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct band, which is joined by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times, and this is the most common arrangement, it Is only a thickening of the transversalis fascia, with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle. ,460 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. cremas- teric ; miiscnlar; cutaneous. Epigastric veins. Circunitlex iliac artery offsets, muscular, and auasto niotic. Circumflex iliac vein. "behind Poiipart's ligament to the back of the pubis, where it anasto- moses witli the similar branch of the opjiosite side, and with an offset from the obturator artery (fig. 154,/) ; the size of the last anastomosis varies much, but its situation is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric hrancli is furnished to the muscular covering of the cord. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the artery to the abdominal wall, and anastomose with the intercostal and lumbar arteries ; others enter the rectus. d. Cutaneous offsets pierce the muscle, and ramify in tlie integu- ments with the antei-ior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins lie with the artery ; they join finally into one, which opens into the external iliac vein. The CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY arises from the outer side of the • external iliac, opposite, or a little below the epigastric. It runs at first over the iliacus, close behind Pou part's ligament, in a fibrous sheath at the junction of the iliac and transversalis fasciae, and then along the inner margin of the iliac crest to about the middle, where it ends by anastomosing with the iliac branch of the ilio-lumbar artery. Branches. Near the front of the iliac crest a branch (fig. 153, h) ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomosing with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral oflsets, which supply the neighbouring muscles, and communicate on the one side with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two col- Uiteral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an inch above Poupai't's ligament, to oj)en into the external iliac vein. Sectiox II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Inguinal hernia. The dissec- tion in the le,l't groin. Reflect internal oblique. The lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved on the left side of the body, should now be dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The integuments and the aponeurosis of the external oblique having already been reflected, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 153. To raise the oblique muscle, let one incision be made across the fleshy fibres from the iliac crest towards the linea alba ; and after the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By lifting upINGUINAL HERNIA. 461 the muscle cautiously, tlie student Avill ""oe able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis so that it may be turned inwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is often difficult in consequence of their lowest fibres being blended together, but a branch of the circumttex iliac artery serves as a guide to the intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut tlie to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched jaceivt pluts. border, -and define with care the conjoined tendon of it and the internal oblique to show the exact extent outwards. The trans- versalis fascia and the spermatic cord should also be nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval below the border of the transversalis muscle Show tiif are the epigastric vessels, which lie close to the inner side of the ve^eis!'^' internal abdominal ring, ljut beneath the transversalis fascia. A small j)iece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine or other organ Situation through the lower jDortion of the abdominal wall near Poupart's hevnii!'" ligament (answering to the inguinal region) is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is favoured by Predis- the deficiencies in the muscular strata, by the passage of the sper- ^aturaiiv matic cord through the abdominal i^arietes, and by tlic existence of fossoe on the inner surface of the wall. The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through the internal Course it abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected through the part of the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of tlie rectus muscle. These two kinds of hernia are distinguished by Two kinds: the names external and internal, from their position to the epigastric artery ; or they are called oblique and direct, from the direction they take through the abdominal wall. Thus, the hernia protruding external or through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called external ' from being outside the artery, and oblique from its slanting course ; Avhile the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is named internal from being inside the arter}-, and direct internal or from its straight course. ^ External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the cavity of External or the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal canal, makes its exit from that .passage by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy op external hernia. To understand the anatomy of Anatomy <.r this form of hernia, it will be necessary to study the passage which f.e\^ned."'' it occupies in its course through the abdominal wall (inguinal canal), the apertures by which it enters and leaves the wall (abdominal rings), and the coverings it receives in its progress. The inguinal canal (fig. 153) is the interval between the flat ^"""j"?'^^ muscles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. It extends from the internal to the external abdominal ring, and extent, lueasures about one inch and a half in length. From its beginning length and at the internal ring, it is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, direction;DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 462 being placed above, and nearly parallel to, tlie inner half of Poupart's ligament. boundaries Towards the surface of the body the canal is iDonnded by the m front, integuments and the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle (a) for its whole extent, and by the internal oblique (b) in addition for and behind; the outer third. Towards the cavity of the abdomen its wall is similarly formed by the peritoneum, subperitoneal tissue and trans- versalis fascia (g) throughout its whole length, and by the conjoined Fig. 153.* tendon (h) of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles in its inner two-thirds. flour, Along the lower part, or the floor, the canal is limited by the meeting of the transversalis fascia with Poupart's ligament, and by the fibres of the ligament inserted into the pectineal line (Gini- ;!nd roof. bernat's ligament) ; while along the upper part its extent is determined only by the apposition of the muscles, and by the arched borders of the internal oblique and transversalis. Canal in tiie In the female, the canal has the same boundaries, but is usually female. * Dissection for inguinal hernia (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles, d-c. : A. External oblique tendon, thrown down. b. Internal oblique, the lower part raised, c. Cremaster muscle in its natural jDosition. d. Transversalis muscle with a free border, f. Spermatic cord, surrounded by the infundi- buliform fascia. G. Transversalis fascia, h. Conjoined tendon. Arteries: a. Epigastric, b. Offset of the circumflex iliac.463 EXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE HERNIA. somewhat longer and narrower. In that sex it lo Iges the round ligament. The internal abdominal r'mg (fig. 153) is an aperture in the internal transversalis fascia, which is situate midway between the symphysis ^^j'^^lf.'""^'^^ pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and half an inch above situation Poupart's ligament. It is oval in form ; and its longest diameter, form and which is directed vertically, measures about half an inch : the fascia "margin; at its outer and lower parts is stronger than at the opposite sides. Arching above and on the inner side of the aperture is the lower relations; border of the transversalis muscle (d), which is fl.eshy in the outer but tendinous in the inner half. Below it is Poupart's ligament, which separates the aperture from the external iliac artery. On the inner side lie the epigastric vessels (a). This, opening in the transversalis fascia is the inlet to the inguinal pai-ts trans- canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into througii it. the wall of the abdomen. An external hernia enters the canal at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a covering the prolongation (infundibuliforni fascia) from the margin of the opening. The external abdominal ring (fig. 148, c) is the outlet of the in- External guinal canal, and through it the spermatic cord reaches the surface ^Jj^^J^""'^^' of the body. This aperture is placed in the aponeurosis of the situation external oblique muscle, near the crest of the pubis ; and from the margin a prolongation (spermatic fascia) is sent on the parts passing through it (p. 449). Course and coverings of an external hernia. A piece of intestine The intos- leaving the abdomen with the cord, and passing through the inguinal l^^'tl^t}^^^^^^ canal to the surface of the body, will obtain a covering from every conrse of stratum of the wall of the abdomen in the groin, except from the ' transversalis muscle. It receives its investments in this order :—As the intestine is lias cover- thrust forwards, it carries before it first the peritoneum and the peritoneum subperitoneal fat, and enters the tube of the infundibuliforni fascia ^"3|^gy^'j,gj^ji^ (p) around the cord. Still increasing in size, it is forced downwards fascia, to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia (c) applied to it. The intestine is next cremaster, directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, spermatic and in passing through that opening receives the investment of the l^^^p^^ficiai intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends fascia and towards the scrotum, it has the additional coverings of the super- "^^"^' ficial fascia and the skin. In a hernia which has passed the external abdominal ring, the seven in coverings from without inwards are therefore the following :—the ""•"^'^^' skin and superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascise, the infundibuliform fascia, the subperitoneal tissue, and the peri- toneum or hernial sac. Two of the coverings, viz., the peritoneal iiow pro- and subperitoneal, originate as the gut protrudes ; but the rest are * " ' ready formed round the cord, and the intestine slips inside them. The different layers become much thickened in a hernia that has existed for some time. ...464 DISSECTIONS^ OF THE ABDOMEN. How to flis tiiignisli it. Tlic taxi. Stricture Avliere situate: two kilul^ To set free external, and intern; stricture. Two varieties. Congenital hernia: liow con- stituted ; coverings and course diagnosis; stricture. Infantile hernia : how con stituted Diagnosis. If tlie hernia is small, and is confined to tlie wall of the belly, it gives rise to an elongated swelling along the inguinal canal. If it has proceeded farther, and entered the scrotum, it forms a flask-shaped tmnonr with the large end Ijelow, and the narrow neck occupying the inguinal passage. While efforts are being made to init back a piece of j^rotruded intestine during life, the direction of the canal, and the situation of the internal abdominal ring, should be borne in mind. Seat of Stricture. The protruded intestine may be constricted at the internal abdominal ring, in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle, or at the external abdominal ring. The stricture is placed usually at the internal abdominal ring, and may be produced either by a constricting fibrous band outside the narrowed neck of the tumour, or by a thickening and contraction of the peritoneum itself at the inner surface of the neck. Division of stricture. To set free the intestine, an incision is made down to the internal abdominal ring ; and, all fibrous bands outside the peritoneum being divided, the intestine is to be returned if possible into the abdomen by gentle pressure. Supposing the intestine cannot be replaced in the abdomen after the previous steps have been taken, the surgeon proceeds to lay open the peritoneum, and to divide the internal stricture, from within out, on a director placed beneath it. With the view of avoiding the surrounding vessels, the cut is directed upwards on the front and mid-part of the hernia. Varieties of external hernia. There are two varieties (congenital and infantile) of oblicpie inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. Congenital hernia. This kind is found for the most part in the infant and the child, though it may occur in the adult male. In it the tube of peritoneum (processus vaginalis), which receives the testicle in the foetus, remaining unclosed, the intestine descends into a sac already formed for its reception. As it follows the course of the inguinal canal, it will possess the coverings before enumerated for the external hernia ; and it passes- at the first to the bottom of the scrotum, instead of being arrested at the top of the testis. With care it may be distinguished, while it is of moderate size, Ijy its position in front of the testicle. For the seat, cause, and division of the stricture, refer to what is before stated for external hernia. Infantile or encysted hernia is much rarer than congenital, and cannot be distinguished from the common external hernia during life. It was first recognised in the young child, and received its name of infantile from that circumstance ; but it may be met with at any period of life. This form of hernia occurs when the fojtal processus vaginalis of the peritoneum is closed only in the neighbourhood of the internal abdominal ring, instead of being obliterated from that point down to the testicle, so that a large serous sac will be situate in front ofINTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. 46j the sjjermatic cord, and may occupy tlie inguinal canal. With this state of the peritoneum, should an external hernia with its cover- ings descend along the cord in the usual way, it will pass behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus in a serous membrane. In this way there will be two sacs : an anterior (the tunica vaginalis) con- taining serum, and a posterior enclosing the intestine. An infantile hernia is first recognised during an operation by ],ow known the knife opening the tunica vaginalis. The operator then proceeds treated, to lay bare the neck of the hinder or hernial sac, and to treat the stricture of it as before described (p. 464). Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia escapes on the inner internal side of the epigastric artery, and has a straight course through the abdominal parietes. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be understood after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which it passes. Anatomy of internal hernia. In the abdominal wall near tlie Triangle of pubis is a triangular space to which the name of Hesselhach^s triamjle ^fomidaiie.s •' lias been given. This is bounded by the epigastric artery on one side, the outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and the inner part of Poupart's ligament below ; it measures about two inches size: from above down, and one inch and a half across at the base. The constituents of the abdominal wall in this area are—the constituents integuments, the muscular strata, and the layers lining the interior of the abdomen, viz., transversalis fascia, subperitoneal tissue, and peritoneum. The mascles have the following arrangement :—The aponeurosis of the external oblique is pierced by the external and disposi- abdominal ring, towards the lower and inner angle of the space. ^HusJies. The internal oblique and transversalis, which come next, are united together in the conjoined tendon ; and as this descends to its inser- tion into the pectineal line, it covers the inner two-thirds (about an inch) of the space ; and leaves uncovered about half an inch between its outer edge and the epigastric vessels, where the transversalis fascia appears. Any intestine protruding in this spot must make a new path for Hernia in itself, and elongate the different structures, since there is not any twokmds." passage by which it can descend, like an external hernia. Farther, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent and direction in the abdominal wall, must vary according as the gut projects through the portion of the space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part external to that tendon. Course and coverings of the hernia. The commoner kind of in- Coverings ternal hernia (inferior) passes through the part of the triangular common S2)ace which is covered by the conjoined tendon, kind are The intestine in protruding carries before it the peritoneum, the peritoneum subperitoneal fatty membrane, and the transversalis fascia ; next it cent'tissue, elongates the conjoined tendon, or as in a sudden rupture, separates g^jl^^f^^J^jj^ the fibres, and escapes between them. Then the intestine advances conjoined into the lower part of the inguinal canal, opposite the external tendon, abdominal ring, and j^asses through that opening on the inner side spermatic of the cord, receiving at the same time the covering of the spermatic sup'erhciai H HDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMExX. 466 • fascia, and skin. The taxis. How known from exter- nal : impossible if it is large. Stricture : to free from stricture; in larg( hernia. Rarer liind of internal hernia is oblique i direction with the cord. Coverings are same a in external liernia. Diagnosis not'possible in life.' fascia. Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of an internal hernia are the same as those of an external; and in kind the only differences are that the covering of transversalis fascia is not furnished by the infundibuli- form process, and the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremas- teric fascia. The j)osition of the openings in the abdominal wall, and the straightness of its course, should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind of hernia. Diagnosis. This rupture will l)e distinguished from external hernia by its straight course through the abdominal wall, and by the neck being placed close to the pubis. When an inguinal hernia has attained a large size, it is impossible to tell by an external examination whether i\ began originally in the triangular sp£ice, or at the internal abdominal ring ; for as an ex- ternal hernia increases, its weight drags inwards the internal ring into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling ac<[uires the appearance of a direct rupture. ^eat of stricture. The stricture in this form of hernia occurs most frequently outside the neck of the tumour, at the opening that has been formed in the conjoined tendon, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum ; and it may occasionally be found at the external abdominal ring. Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid bare, and all fibrous bands around it are to be divided without in- jury to the peritoneum ; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot be put back into the abdomen, the sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. In dividing the stricture on a large rupture appearing to be direct, the cut should be made directly upwards in the middle of the front of the tumour, so as to avoid the epigastric vessels, the position of which cannot be ascertained. Variety of internal hernia. Another kind of internal hernia (suj^erior) occu]?s through that part of the area of the triangular space which is external to the conjoined tendon. The intestine protrudes through the wall of the abdomen close to the epigastric artery^ and descends along nearly the whole of the inguinal -canal to reach the external abdominal ring ; so that the term " direct" would not apply strictly to this form of internal hernia. Coverings. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal canal, it has the same coverings as an external hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascite, the transversalis fascia ('but not the infundibuliform fascia), and the subperitoneal fat with the peritoneum. Diagnosis. This form of internal hernia would be considered external during life from its course and its form ; and yet it must be remembered that the epigastric vessels are i)laced on the outer part of its neck, while in the liernia which it simulates they lie onUMBILICAL HERNIA. ■467 the inner side. Its nature can be ascertained with certainty only after death. Seat of stricture. The constriction of the intestine will take place stricture at from similar causes, and at the same spots as in the external as"externai. ]iernia. Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in Division of the living body whether a small hernia is internal or external, the rule observed in dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of tlie tumour ; and if it is necessary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upAvards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomplialo.s, is a protrusion of the intestine Umbilical through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in • *" course' size, and its course is straight tlirough the abdominal wall. Coverings. The coverings of the intestine are—the skin and super- coverings hcial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the ajDerture in the linea alba, together with coverings of the transversalis fascia, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the become tumour the superficial fascia blends with the other contiguous sti'uc- the\iin'i*our tures, and its fat disappears. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investnieut changes in; otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat of stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the stricture, , . . . . wlieie margin of the tendinous opening in tlie abdominal wall; and it may found. Ije either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of hernia. It should be rememl^ered that the narrowed neck is at the upper end and not in the centre of the swelling. Division of the stricture. The constriction nuxy be removed by cutting externally the parts around the neck. Or if the sac is to be opened, the knife may be carried upwards in cutting the stricture ; but there is not any vessel lial^le to injury in the operation. Other Forms of Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the otiicr parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so hernia"u-o as to form a hernia. For instance there may he femoral hernia below femoral, Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia obturator, through the thyroid foramen, with the artery of the same name ; sciatic and sciatic hernia through the sciatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed pre- sently ; but the student may refer to some special treatise for information respecting the other abdominal hernia?. Dissection. The abdomen is now to be opened to see the cords and Dissection 1 • r" !• 1 T1 A open depressions on the posterior suriace oi tlie wall. A transverse cut may abiiomen. be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, three prominent fibrous cords, the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries, will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall. In the middle line is the uracluis, One median :which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus ; on ^^^^ ^^^^^ each side is the obliterated hypogastric artery, extending from the side, side of the pelvis to the uml^ilicus ; and a little external to the last, H H 2468 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and an artery. Three inguinal I'ossfe: external, internal, Situation of femora] hernia. Dissection of the parts concerned. Divide Avail, detach peritoneum and fat, and clean iliac vessels Anatomv of the sti'uctures near Poupart's ligament, is a less marked ])rominence of tlie perito- neum caused by the epigastric artery. Fossce. With tliis disposition of the cords, three hollows {inguinal fossce) are seen near Pouparf s ligament, one internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, another outside the epigastric artery, and the third between the two prominences. The external fossa corresponds by its lower and inner part to the internal abdominal ring, opposite which there is often a slight depression of the peritoneum, and is the place where an external inguinal hernia begins to protrude. The internal fossa is between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the urachus ; its outer part is opposite the external abdominal ring, and is the seat of the commoner (inferior) variety of internal hernia. The middle fossa is the smallest, and is placed behind the inguinal canal; in it the superior variety of internal hernia leaves the abdo- minal cavity. In some bodies the obliterated hypogastric artery is close to, or behind, the epigastric artery; and in that case the middle fossa will be wanting. Femoral Hernia. In this hernia the intestine leaves the abdomen below Poupart's ligament, and descends in the membranous sheath around the femoral vessels. Only so much of the structures will be described here as can be now seen ; the rest are noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh (p. 612). Dissection. The dissection for femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the body. The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from the umbilicus to the pubis, the cut being made on the left side of the urachus, and care being taken not to injure the bladder, which may project above the pubic bones. The peritoneum is to be de- tached from the inner surface of the flap, and from the iliac fossa. The layer of subperitoneal fatty tissue is to be separated in the same way, and in doing this the sj)ermatic vessels and vas deferens will come into view as the}^ meet at the internal abdominal ring to form the spermatic cord. Beneath these the external iliac vessels are to be cleaned, with some lymphatic glands lying along them, and the genito-crural nerA^'e on the artery. (In the female the round liga- ment of the uterus is seen entering the internal abdominal ring round the epigastric artery; and the ovarian vessels cross the external iliac trunks higher up.) Any loose tissue remaining is to be taken away to show the beginning of the crural sheath around the femoral vessels, and the interval (crural ring) on their inner side (fig. 154). Afterwards the transversalis and iliac fascise are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the forniation of the crural sheath. Anatomy of femoral hernia. The membranes concerned in femoral hernia are the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fatty layer, the transversalis and iliac fascise lining the interior of the abdominal cavity, with the sheath on the femoral vessels to which they gi^^e origin at Poupart's ligament.FEMORAL HERNIA. 469 The peritoneum lines the inner surface of the abdominal wall, Peritoneal whence it is prolonged without interruption into the iliac fossa and the pelvis ; and its thinness and weakness are apparent now it is detached. The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer beneath the «ubperi- peritoneum, hut is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of ^ ' * ' the abdomen, where the iliac vessels pass under Poupart's ligament. At that spot it extends over the upper opening of the membranous sheath around the vessels, and covers the space of the crural ring internal to the vein. The part of this layer which stretches over the crural ring is ^^'j^^.^^j^j^!^"^^, named the septum crurale; and a lymphatic gland is generally attached to its under surface. The transversalis fascia has been before noticed (p. 456). At Poupart's ligament it joins the iliac fascia outside the situation of " the external iliac artery ; but internal to that spot it is continued downwards to the thigh in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath. The iliac fascia covers the ilio-psoas muscle, and lies beneath the iliac fascia, iliac vessels. At Poupart's ligament it joins the trans- Fig. 154.* versalis fascia external to the iliac vessels ; but be- hind the vessels it is pro- longed into the posterior part of the crural sheath. The crural sheath is a loose membranous tube, which encloses the femoral vessels as they enter the thigh, and is obtained from the fasciae lining the ab- domen. Its anterior half is continuous with the transversalis fascia, and its posterior is derived from the iliac fascia and the pubic fascia of the thigh. The sheath is not entirely filled by the vessels, for a space (crural canal) exists on the inner side of the vein, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The aperture leading into the crural canal is called the crural ring. The crural ring (fig. 154, d) is an interval at tlie base of the Crural ring: sheath, to the inner side of the femoral vein, which is about half an inch wide, and is filled by a lymphatic gland. Bounding it size ami internally are Gimbernat's ligament (e) and the conjoined tendon ; '* View of the parts concerned in femoral hernia. (R. Quain.) Muscles, <fcc. : A. Iliaciis covered by the iliac fascia, b. Rectus, c. Transversalis, covered by the transversalis fascia, d. Crural ring. e. Gimbernat's liga- ment. Vessels: a. External iliac artery. b. Iliac vein. c. Epigastric artery, d. Circumflex iliac, e. Obturator, with its nerve. /. Anastomosis between the pubic branches of the obturator and epigastric arteries.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 470 C'onstvicfcinr boundaries, how re- laxed. Usual ves- sels around Unusunl state of vessels. Femoral hernia. Covering six ill number. stricture either at neck, or at saphenous opening. Incision to divide ex- ternal and intenial stricturi'. Risk of wounding; and limiting it externally is tlie femoral vein {b). In front i.s Poupart's ligament, with tlie deep crural arcli; and behind is the pubis, covered by the pectineus muscle and the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Crossing the front of the space, but at some little distance from it, is the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. The oiDening is larger in the female than in the male. Two of the boundaries, anterior and inner, are firm and sharp- edged, though their condition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the thigh is raised and approximated to its felloAv, those bounding parts will be relaxed. Position of vessels around the ring (fig. 154). On the outer side is the femoral vein (b) ; and above this are the epigastric vessels (c). In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubis ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. But in some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from the epigastric, and lies along the ring as it passes to the pelvis. It may have two positions with respect to the crural ring:—either it is placed close to the iliac vein, so as to leave the inner side of that space free from vessels; or it arches over the aperture, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament; in this last condition the ring will be encircled by vessels except behind. Course of femoral hernia. The intestine leaves the abdomen by the opening of the crural ring : and it descends internal to the vein in the crural sheath, as far as the saphenous opening in the thigh, where it projects to the surface. Coverings. In its progress the intestine will pusli before it the peritoneum and subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it will displace, or cause to be absorbed, the gland which fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the saphenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural sheath, and a layer called the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, it is invested by the superficial fascia and skin of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuller details (pp. 612 to 616). Seat of stricture. The stricture of a femoral hernia is placed opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, or lower down at the margin of the saphenous opening in the thigh. And the constric- tion may be caused either by a fibrous band outside the upper narrow end of the tumour, or by the thickening of the peritoneum inside the neck, as in inguinal hernia. Division of the stricture. To free the intestine from the constricting fibrous band arching over it, an incision is to be made ^o^\\\ to the neck of the sac at the inner and upper part. And to relieve the deep stricture Avithin the neck of the sac, the peritoneal bag is to be opened and a director introduced, and the knife is to be carried horizontally inwards, or uj)Avards and inwards, through the thickened sac and a few fibres of the edge of Gimbernat's ligament. Danger to vessels. When the incision is made upAvards and in-47i CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. wards to loosen the constricting band in the neck of the tumour, vessels in there will not be any vessel injured unless the cut should be made so long as TO reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small ])ubic l)rancli of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the same ami in-egu- \\ti\\, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But of^th'^em^*''" in some few instances (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence) the obturator artery takes its unusual course in front, and on the inner side of tlie neck of tlie hernia, and will l)e before the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the vessel cannot l)e recognised beforehand, the surgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the ai'tery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. Section III. CAVITY OF THE ABDO:\lEX. The abdominal cavity is the S})ace included between the spinal Di'nniti..ii, column behind, and the muscles stretching from the thorax to the pelvis in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), and f.m- and contains the digestive, urinary, and gencrati^'c organs, with vessels and nerves, J.Hssection. To prepare the cavity for examination, the remainder Dissection of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be cut, along the abdomeii. left side of the linea alba, as far as the ensiform process. The resulting fla}>s may be thrown to the sides. Si::e and form. This cavity is the lar<^est in the bodv. It is lai'gest ^ ^ Ctivity iii ovoidal in form, with the ends upwards and downwards, so that it tiie body; measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is ovoidal. is much wider above than below. Boundaries. Above, it is limited by the diaphra<'ni : below, by Bonndarios X o 3 >/ above and the recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani muscles, and by the other below, structures closing the outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are concave towards the cavity , and are in part tleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and iiattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and i" fi<>|it and partly muscular ;—thus, towards the upper and lower limits is the bony framework of the skeleton, viz., the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other ; but between these the wall is formed by the broad muscles which have been examined. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous and behind, to it, viz,, the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished action of by tlie contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contrac- ^j^^j^gylt'jV tion and ascent of the levatores ani; and the cavity is restored to ani; its ibrmer dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 472 width by muscles in wall of abdomen. How excreta expelled. Division of space. Abdomen proper. Pelvic portion. Abdomen proper here described. Pelvis after. Abdominal cavity is marked out into regions. Three lateral on each side, and three central. Other sub- divisions. Things in cavity. Viscera seen without displace- ment. General division of The width is lessened by the contraction of the abdominal muscles ; but it is increased, during their relaxation, by the action of the diaj^hragm forcing outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is effected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division of the sjKice. A division has been made of the space into the abdomen proper and the cavity of the pelvis. The abdominal iiortion reaches from the diaphragm to the biim of the pelvis, and lodges nearly the whole of the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys. Tlie pelvic ijortion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. The following description concerns the part of the cavity between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards the end of the dissection of the abdomen, the pelvic portion will receive a separate notice (p. 545). Regions. The upper part of the abdominal cavity is divided into regions by lines drawn through certain points of the parietes. If two horizontal lines are carried round the body, so that own shall be opposite the lowest point of the thoracic wall on each side, and the other on a level with the highest point of the iliac crest, the abdomen will be divided into three zones,—upper, middle and lower. Each of these zones is farther subdivided into three by a vertical line on each side, falling on the centre of Poupart's ligament. The regions marked off, on each side, from the three zones by tlie vertical line are named respectively, from above downwards, hypo- chondriac, lumbar, and iliac ; while the central parts are designated, from above down, ej^igastric, umbilical, and hypogastric. In addition, the middle and lower part of the h3^pogastric space is named pubic region, Avhile the contiguous portions of the hypo- gastric and iliac constitute the inguinal region. Contents and tJieir imition. The alimentary tube, the liver, pan- creas, spleen, and kidneys occupy the abdomen proper. S'lqierficial vie'w. On first opening the abdomen the following- viscera appear (fig. 155) :—Above and to the right is the liver, which is in great part concealed by the ribs. Lower down, and more to the left, a piece of the stomach is visible ; but this viscus lies mostly beneath the ribs and the liver. Descending from the stomach is a loose fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and conceals the small intestine : in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the intestine uncovered. The ccecum (cm) is usually to be seen in the right iliac region ; and sometimes a part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon comes to the surface in the corresponding situation on the left side. Close above the pubic symphysis is the apex of the bladder (bl), with the uracil us (ur) continued upwards from it; and if the organ is distended, a larger part of it is. exposed. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided473 RELATIOiS^S OF STOMACH. into stomacli, small intestine, and large intestine ; and the two last ciihuentary are farther subdivided as will afterwards ajDpear. The several ^^^^ \ viscera have the following general position:—The small intestine several is much coiled, and occupies the greater part of the cavity; while P^^"**^"» the great intestine arches round it. Both are held in position by portions of the serous lining. Aljove the arch of the great intestine are situate the stomach, the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas ; and of and below it is the convoluted small gut. Behind the intestine, on ^^^"^y- each side, is the kidney with its excretory tube. Before the natural i^osition of the viscera is disturbed, their Relations . of viscGrft situation in the different regions of the abdomen, and their relations to be seen, to surrounding j)arts should be examined. RELATION,S OF THE VISCERA. The STOMACH (tig. 155) intervenes between the gullet and the Position small intestine, and is partly retained in position by folds of the of the ^ '^"'^ serous meml)rane. It is somewhat pyriform in shape, wdth the stomach: larger end on the left side; and it is 2:)laced in the left hypo- chondriac and the epigastric regions. At its large end the stomach is joined by the a)so]3hagus, Avhich <'arfiiaan<i fixes it to the diaphragm. The oi)ening of the oesophagus into the stomach is named the cardia, and lies behind the seventh costal cartilage of the left side, about an inch from its junction with the sternum, l^eing on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra. To the left of the cardia, the fundus of the stomach bulges ujiwards in the fundus left vault of the diaphragm. The concave border of the stomach to the right of the oesophagus is the small curvature, and is attached to small the liver by a fold of peritoneum—the small omentum. nuvatme, The right extremity leads into the small intestine (duodenum) pyloric end by the ])yloric orifice, the situation of which is indicated externally by a slight constriction of the tube, and a thickened band in the wall that may be felt with the finger. The pyloric end of the stomach is placed beneath the liver, and about two inches below the xiphi-sternal articulation, at the level usuall}" of the disc bet^^^een the twelfth dorsal and tirst lumbar vertebrae. The anterior surface of the stomach is in contact above and to anterior the right with the liver, on the left with the diaphragm, and between these with the abdominal wall. The posterior surface lies and pos- over the spleen, to which it is connected by a fold of j)eritoneum surfaces; (gastro-splenic omentum), the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, the pancreas, and the transverse meso-colon. The convex border or great curvature is directed to the left and great curva- downwards, and has the great omentum attached to it; along it lies flxeVpart.^^ the transverse colon. This is the most moveable part of the organ. The form and position of the stomach vary with its degree of changes in distension. "When the organ is empty, it is flattened from before pSion^; backwards, and drawn up towards the left hypochondriac region, the empty pyloric end reaching very little to the right of the middle line.474 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. and full stomach, But when full, the stomach becomes ronnclecl, and its anterior surfai-e is directed somewhat upwards; the fundus pushes upwards tlie Fiff. 155. * Diagram showing the positiou of some of the abdominal viscera. The liver is shaded with horizontal, and the stomach with vertical lines, (j h. Gall-bladder, tr c. Transverse colon. It. Ligamentum teres of the liver. coe. Caecum. o h a. Obliterated hypogastric artery. xir. Urachus. bl. Urinary bladder.RELATIONS OF INTESTINE. • liapliragui, pressing on the lieavt and left lung ; the great ourvaturt.- moves to the left antl ilownwaixls, as Avell as somewhat forwards ; and the pyloric extremity is carried to the right. The SMALL INTESTINE reaches from the stomach to the right iliac Small region, where it ends in the large intestine, it is arbitrarily i"*^^'''*^'"'^ ■ divided into three parts,—duodenum, jejunum, and ihuim. dhislons!^ The diiodciuDii c()ni})rises the first nine or ten inches (twelve duchUmuuu fingers' breadths) of tlie small intestine. ]>y raising the liver it beginning, may be traced from the pyloric end of the stomach, at first back- wards, and then downwards, until it disa})[)ears IxMieath thi' trans- vei-se colon. If the great omentum, with the attached transverse colon, be turned up over the margin of tlie lht)rax, and the mass of aiui onding small intestine be drawn to the right, tlie end of the duinhMium will be seen on the left of tlie spine. It hen' ascH'uds for a short dis- tance, and at the level of the second bnubar vertebra passes into the jejunum, IVtrming a sharp bend forwards and downwards, Avhich is named the i/('()(/('//()-/V//n;(^^ Jie.aur. The rehitions of the duodenum to be fniiy cannot, however, bi' satisfactorily seen at preseid, aud they will be examined at a later stage (p. 491). The je'iKuum and ilcKm include the remainder of tlie small intes- -lejimuui tine, two-tifths belonging to the jejunum and three-tiftlis to the ileum, but there is no natural division between them. This ]>art of the ^'i"''*'"" • intestinal tube forms many convolutions in the umbilical, hypt)- gastric, lumbar, and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it di-scends commonly, but more extensively in the female, into the t-avity of the pelvis. In front of the convolutitms is the great omentum; and ^ behind, they are fixed to the sjune by a large fold o[ peritoneum named the mesenterv, which contains tlie vessels and nerves. The !V"' ". . , . . ileiiui. tt'rmination of the ileum ascends sligiitly from the pelvis to the right iliac fossa, crossing the external iliac Ms^els and the psoas muscle, to oyen into the large intestine at a spot a little to the outer side of the sacro-iliac articulation. The LAiUiE INTESTINE or COLON is luore fixed than the jejunum l-ngv and ileum, from which it is to be distinguished by its sacculated howdis- appearance, and by its being furnished with small ]>rocesses of peri- toneum containing fat—the appendices cpiplaYac. It begins in the right iliac region in a rounded part or head (ca^cum^ and ascends to the liver through the right iliac and lumbar regions. Then crossing the abdomen below the stomach, it readies the left hypochondriac regii>ii ; and it lies in this transverse part of its i-ourse between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or altogether in the latti'r. Finally, aTui extont it descends, on the left side, through the regicais corresponding with those it occupied on the right, and forms a remarkable bend (sig- moid llexure) in the left iliac fossa ; then becoming straighter (rectum) it passes through the pelvis to end on the siu'face of the body. It is divided into six parts, viz., ciecum, ascending colon, trans- Divisions, verse colon, descending colon, sigmoid llexure, and rectuuL The ciccxm (caput crecnm coli; fig. 155, ra-) is placed in the ■ right iliac fossa, above the outer half of Poupart's ligament. When position ;476 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. jieritoneni around it. Junction of ileum. Verinifonu Ascending colon: parts around. Transverse colon : extent and course; splenic flexure; arch of colon; relations of arch: disposition of peri- toneum. Descending colon: situation; and peri- toneum. empty it may be entirely covered by the convolutions of the small intestine ; but more frequently it is found more or less distended, and resting against the anterior abdominal wall. The cjecum is as a rule entirely sumjunded by peritoneimi, which sometimes forms a small fold (meso-c{X3Cum) behind it ; but occasionally it is closely bound down by the peritoneum being reflected off on each side, so as to leave the hinder surface uncovered, and connected to the iliac fascia by areolar tissue. This part of tlie large intestine is joined at its inner and posterior aspect hy the termination of the ileum, which marks the division between the ccccum and ascending colon ; and near the blind extre- mity the ca3cum has attached to it a slender worm-like process—the vermiform cvppmdix. This process is usually directed upwards and inwards, under cover of the cfecum, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum. The ascending colon reaches from the coecum to the under surface of the liver, where the intestine makes a bend known as the hepatic Jiexure. It lies against the iliacus and quadratus lumborum, and in its upper part along the outer border of the kidney. In front and to its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The peritoneum fixes the ascending colon to the wall of the abdomen, and surrounds commonly about two-thirds of the circumference ; but it may encircle the tube, and form a fold behind (ascending meso-colon). The transverse colon (fig. 155, tr c) begins at the hepatic flexure, and passes across to the left and upwards, along the great curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen. Here another bend is formed at the junction with the descending colon, sharper than that on the riglit side, and named the splenic Jiexure. In this course the transverse colon is deeper at each end than iu the middle, and thus forms tlie arch of the colon, which has its convexity directed forwards. Above the arch are placed the liver and gall-bladder, the stomach, and the sj)leen ; and below, the convolutions of the small intestine. In passing from right to left, the transverse colon first lies over the right kidney and the second part of the duodenum, and is fixed to these organs by its peritoneum, which is arranged like that of the ascending colon. But beyond the duodenum, it is only loosely attached to the back of the abdomen by a long fold of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon (fig. 156, rnc) ; while the great omentum (g om), which passes between it and the stomach, covers it in front. The descending colon extends from the spleen to the iliac crest, and is longer than the ascending part. At first it is placed deeply in the left hypochondriac region, resting against the diaphragm, and partly concealed by the stomach. Lower down, it has the small intestine in front and the quadratus lumborum behind. Along the inner side, it is closely applied to the outer part of the leit kidney. This part of the colon is smaller than either the right or the transverse portion, and is commonly less surrounded by theRELATIONS OF LIVEIL 477 peritoneuin ; its upper end is attached to the diaphragm hy a special fokl (pleuro-colic) of that membrane. The sigmoid flexure of the colon, beginning at the iliac crest, first sigmoid descends in the left iliac fossa, over the ilio-psoas muscle and the A^^^^*^ • external iliac vessels, being fixed in this position by the peritoneum, ^^^^^^ > until it reaches the brim of the pelvis. Here the intestine forms a forms a. large loop, which is provided with a long process of peritoneum— ra*r?e.s^i!r*^ the sigmoid meso-colon, and is therefore freely moveable. The loop position; commonly hangs down in the cavity of the pelvis ; but it often projects forwards in the iliac fossa, and reaches the anterior wall of the abdomen. Opposite the brim of the pelvis, in the neighbour- ending, hood of the left sacro-iliac articulation, it ends in the rectum. The rectum, or the termination of the large intestine, is con- Rectum, ttiined in the pelvis, and will be examined in the dissection of that cavity. The LIVER (fig. 155) is situate in the right hypochondriac and Position of the epigastric regions, and often reaches slightly into the left hypo- ' <;hondriac. It is covered in front by the ribs with their cartilages, except over a small area in the subcostal angle. Folds of peritoneum, called ligaments, attach it to the abdominal parietes. The upper surface fits against the diaphragm, and is convex on sm-faces, each side, but slightly hollowed in the centre below the heart: the ^^^^^^ right portion is more prominent than the left, and reaches to the level of the fourth intercostal a-pace. This surface is divided into two parts, corresponding to the right and left lobes of the organ, by the falciform ligament. The 'lower surface looks also somewhat backwards ; it is in con- and lower -. tact with the stomach, the first and second -pavts of the duodenum, the small omentum, the right kidney, and the beginning of the transverse colon. To this surface the small omentum, containing the hepatic vessels, is attached. The anterior border is thin and directed downwards. On the anterior riglit side it is concealed by the ribs ; but in the epigastric region it is exposed, running obliquely from the ninth right to the eighth left costal cartilage : it crosses the middle line of the body about a liand's-breadth below the xiphi-sternal articulation. The fundus of the gall-bladder (fig. 155, g b) projects beyond this edge, close to the ninth costal cartilage of the right side. Posteriorly, the liver has the following relations, but they cannot posterior all be seen at present:—The left lobe lies in front of the oesophagus, and is attached to the diaphragm by a triangular fold of peritoneum ' —the left lateral ligament. The two layers of j)eritoneum fixing and of the right lobe are for the most part widely separated, and constitute the coronary ligament ; but at the right end they come together, and give rise to a small triangular fold which is distinguished as the right lateral ligament. The portion of the surface between the hxyers of the coronary ligament is adherent directly to the diaphragm by means of areolar tissue : in this space also the right suprarenal capsule touches the liver; and the inferior vena cava is embedded in a deep groove in its substance (fig. 169).DISSECTI02i OF THE ABDOMEN. 478 Position is changed by <liapliragin, and by postiire of body. Spleen : position ; relations of snrfaces, phrenic, gastric, and venal )f ends Expose kidney on left si.le. Kidney; situation relations common t( botli, ;nd special >f right, )f left. Pancreas later. The liver changes its situation with the ascent and descent ai' the diaphragm in respiration ; for in inspiration it descends, and in expiration it regains its former level. In the npright and sitting postures also, it descends lower than in the horizontal condition of tlie body ; so that when the trunk is erect, the anterior border may be felt below the edge of the ribs, but when the body is reclined, it is withdra^vn within the margin of the thorax. The SPLEEN is deeply placed behind the stomach, at the back of the hypochondrium and the adjoining part of the epigastric region. It lies very obliquely, the upper end being near the spine, while the lower end reaches about half-way round the side of the body. Its outer or posterior surface is convex and free ; it touches the diaphragm opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. The anterior surface is concave and applied to the stomach, to which it is attached by the gastro-splenic omentum (fig. 157, f/s om) ; the tail of the pancreas also touches the lower end of this surface. A third narrow surface, the internal, lies against the outer border of the left kidney in its tipper half ; and a fold of peritoneum, called the lieno-renal ligament (fig. 157, Ir), which contains the splenic vessels, passes between the two. The upj)er end of the spleen is close to the suprarenal capsule ; the lower end rests on the splenic flexure of the colon and the pleuro-colic ligament. Dissection. The kidney should be examined on the left side of the liody, so that the duodenum may not be displaced. In order to see it, the peritoneum and descending colon must be separated from the abdominal wall; and its casing of fat should be torn through with the fingers. The KIDNEY is situate at the back of the abdomen, opposite the last dorsal and upper two or three lumbar vertebrte, and occupies 2)arts of the epigastric, hypochondriac, umbilical and lumbar regions. Its position is somewhat oblique, the uj)per end being nearer to the spine than the lower ; and the surface which is called anterior looks much outwards. The viscus lies behind the peritoneum, and is surrounded with fat. It rests upon the diaphragm, the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. Its upper end supports the suprarenal body ; and at the inner border the vessels enter, and the duct (ureter) leaves the organ. Differences on the tiro sides. The right kidney is placed rather lower than the left ; it reaches as high as the last intercostal space, while its fellow rises to the upper border of the eleventh rib. The right kidney has in front of it the liver and transverse colon, with the second part of the duodenum along its inner border; and the hepatic flexure of the colon lies against its outer border below. The left kidney has the stomach and pancreas in front, and tlie spleen and descending colon along its outer side. The relations of the pancreas nia}^ be omitted for the present ; they will be found on p. 492.REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. 479 THE PERITONEUM. This is tlie largest serous membrane in the body. In the male perito- it is a closed sac, like other serous membranes ; but in the female • there is an aperture of communication with the Fallopian tube, and s®"^^*'*^ the mucous Immg oi the latter becomes continuous with the serous membrane. It lines tlie wall of the abdomen (parietal peritoneum), and is reflected over the several viscera (visceral peritoneum), some of whicli it invests comioletely, except where the vessels enter. The surfaces; inner surface is free and smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from the parts to which it is naturally adherent. The membrane, as it passes from viscus to viscus, or from the abdominal wall to viscera, forms processes or folds, to which different names are folds, given, and which for the most part consist of two layers enclosing vessels. The continuity of the sac may Ije traced both horizontally and vertically. Horizontal circle round the lower ixirt of the abdomen. From the Circk-of tin- umbilicus the peritoneum may be followed along the abdominal wall opposite" on the left side to the hinder part of the lumbar region, where it umbilicus, partly surrounds the descending colon, and thence over the kidney to the front of the spine. Here it is reflected forwards along the superior mesenteric vessels, passes round the small intestine, and returns to the spine along the same vessels, thus forming the mesen- tery' From the spine it is continued in the same way on the right side, over the kidney, round the colon, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus again. Vertical circles (pg. 156). Starting at the under surface of the Circles rrom liver, the small omentum (.s om) is found descending; to the small ^ o^n onu. onieiital curvature of the stomach, where the two layers of which it consists layers; separate to enclose that organ, one passing in front and the other behind. At the great curvature they meet again, and give rise to the great omentum or epiploon (g om). After descending to the lower part of the abdomen, they bend backwards and ascend to the transverse colon, which they enclose in the same way as the stomach ; and they are then continued to the posterior abdominal wall, forming the transverse meso-colon (mc). Opposite the lower transverse border of the pancreas these two layers, which have been followed '"eso-coion from the liver to the spine, part company,—the one j^assing up- wards, and the other downwards.'" The ascending layer is continued in front of the pancreas and it« ascend- ing layer; * In the foetus at aa early period the reflected portion of the great omentum is continued up to the spine ; and while the anterior layer ascends over the pancreas as explained in the text, the posterior or descending layer surrounds the transverse colon before passing into the mesentery, thus forming a transverse meso-colon distinct from the great omentum. The front of the transverse meso-colon then becomes adherent to the opposed part of the great omentum, so that the two are united in a single process, and the colon appears to :be enclosed between the omental layers. Occasionally traces of the foetal condition are met with in the adult.480 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. ileseending layer and mesentery; in xielvi Small and large ba-?s diaphragm, and is then reflected on to the posterior surface of the liver, where it covers the part called the Spigelian lobe, and passes into the hinder layer of the small omentum. The descending layer immediately passes off along the superior mesenteric vessels to the Fig. 156.* small intestine (jejunum and ileum), forming the mesentery (m) as before ex^ilained in tracing the horizontal circle. From the root of the mesentery, this layer de- scends over the lower end of the aorta and the jjro- montory of the sacrum to the pelvis, where it partly invests the viscera of that cavity. Thus, it sur- rounds the upper part of the rectum, and attaches that to the front of the sacrum by the meso-rec- tum ; from the rectum it is reflected forwards to the bladder in the male, or the uterus in the female, forming a pouch between the two; and after cover- ing the upper part of the bladder, it passes off at the front and sides to the abdominal wall, forming the fossse before noticed in the inguinal region (p. 468). ^ Lastly, the membrane is continued upwards, lining the anterior wall of the abdomen, and the under surface of the diaphragm nearly to the spine ; there it is reflected over the upper surface of the liver, and then turning round to the under surface it joins the anterior layer of the small omentum. In the foregoing account it will be seen that two vertical circles have been traced, which surround distinct cavities in the figure. The portion of the membrane which forms the circle behind the Diagram showing the arrangement of the peritoneum in a median section of the ahdomen. I. Liver, st. Stomach, c. Transverse colon, p. Pancreas. d. Duodenum, third part. i, i. Coils of small intestine, r. Rectum. hi. Bladder, s om. Small omentum, g om. Grreat omentum, mc. Transverse meso-colon. m. Mesentery, rv p. Eecto-vesical pouch.4«1 REFLECTIONS OF PEEITONEUM. liver and stomach is known as the small bag of the peritoneum ; while the part in front of those organs, which is much more exten- sive, and reaches into the pelvis, constitutes the large bag. The their con- two bags are however continuous, and their cavities communicate ^''^^^^'i'- through the aperture termed the foramen of Winslow, as will be apparent by tracing the horizontal circle at a higher level than before, viz., immediately above the pyloric end of the stomach. Horizontal circle at the level of the foramen of IVinslow (fig. 157). C""*^^® Beginning in front at the falciform ligament of the liver (/), the winsiow; Fig. 157. ^• peritoneum may be followed on the left side along the aljdomiiuii w^all and the diaphragm to the outer part of the left kidney, where it is reflected along the back of the splenic vessels to the spleen, forming one lay«r of the lieno-renal ligament {I r). Having fur-covering ot nished the investment of the spleen, the membrane passes as the «pi«f"i; outer layer of the gastro-splenic omentum {gs om) to the stomach, and over the front of the latter into the anterior layer of the small omentum {s om). From the front, it turns round the hepatic vessels small to the back of the small omentum ; and at the spot where it passes ""^^^^t""^' behind the vessels it bounds the foramen of Winslow (^(;), and the foramen of small bag begins. It then forms in succession the posterior co^'er- ^d^sniali ing of the stomach, and the inner layer of the gastro-splenic omen- ^•'^s- turn and lieno-renal ligament, and turning to the right, is continued * Diagram of a horizontal section of the abdomen through the twelfth dorsal vertebra, to show the arrangement of the peritoneum at the foramen of Winslow and round the spleen. I. Liver. st. Stomach. spl. Spleen. Jc, Tc. Kidneys, ao. Aorta ; farther forwards the coronary artexy is seen, cut twice. V c. Inferior vena cava. ^v. Foramen of Winslow. s om. Small omentum, at the right end of which are, from left to right, the hepatic artery, portal vein, and bile-duct, gs om. Gastro-splenic omentum. Ir. Lieno-renal ligament. /. Falciform ligament. In front of the left kidney is the splenic artery, sending its branches to the stomach between the layers of the gastro- splenic omentum. T IDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 482 Chief folds of the I)eritoneiiiiV Gastri( folds : (Jastro- liepatic. onientut attach- ments ; contents Gastro-colic omentum : formation cavity; fusion of layers. Cavity of smal] bag: boundarie over the left kidney and the diaphragm to the inferior vena cava, where it forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Here becoming large bag again, it can be followed over the right kidney to the liver, and round the latter to the falciform ligament. On the right side of the falciform ligament the peritoneum simply passes over the liver and diaphragm. Special Parts of the Peritoneum. After tracing the con- tinuity of the serous sac over the wall and the viscera, the dissector is to study the chief processes or folds of the membrane in connec- tion with the alimentary tube and its appendages. The pieces of peritoneum in connection with the viscera of the pelvis Avill be seen in the dissection of that cavity. Folds connected with the stomach. The processes uniting the stomach to other viscera are named omenta, and are three in number, viz.—the small or gastro-hepatic omentum, the large or gastro-colic omentum, and the gastro-splcnic omentum. The small omentum (figs. 156 and 157, s om) stretches between the liver and stomach, and ends towards the right in a free border, behind which the foramen of Winslow leads into the cavitj^ of the small bag. It is attached above to the liver along the transverse fissure and the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure (fig. 169, so) ; below to the small curvature of the stomach and the first part of the duodenum. At its left or posterior end it is fixed to the diaphragm for a short distance, between the liver and the termina- tion of the oesophagus. The part between the longitudinal fissure of the liver and the small curvature is very thin, and can be sepa- rated into two layers only in the immediate neighbourhood of the viscera ; but that extending from the transverse fissure to the duo- denum is much thicker, and encloses the hepatic artery, portal vein, common bile-duct, and nerves and lymphatics of the liver. The great omentum, (fig. 156, ^ om) is the largest fold of the peri- toneum, and results from the meeting of two layers which leave the great curvature of the stomacli and the first j)art of the duodenum. The sheet thus formed descends in front of the intestine, extending farther on the left side than the right, and at the lower jDart of the abdomen is doubled backwards to join the transverse colon. The fold therefore encloses the lower part of a space (cavity of the small bag), which originally extended to its lower border ; but in the adult the anterior and posterior portions of the omentum are usually closely adherent, and the cavity seldom exists below the transverse colon. Between the layers of the great omentum, especially near the stomach, are some branches of vessels, minute nerves, and a variable quantity of fat ; but over the greater part of their extent the layers are inseparably united, and the resulting membrane is veiy thin, and in places cribriform. Cavity of the small hag or sac of the omentum. By dividing the fore part of the great omentum near the stomach, this cavity will be opened, and the hand may be introduced to ascertain its extent. In front it is bounded by the anterior part of the great omentum, the stomach, the small omentum, and the Spigelian lobe of the liver.PERITONEAL FOLDS ON INTESTINE. Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon and meso-colon, the j)ancreas, the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, and the diaphragm. To the right it extends as far as the and extent, inner border of the duodenum (second part), and to the left as far as the spleen. Between the duodenum and the liver it opens into tlie general cavity or large bag by the foramen of Winslow. The foramen of TFinsloia is bounded in front by the right portion Boundaries of the small omentum, containing the hepatic vessels ; below ^'-I's of Winslow the same vessels and the first part of the duodenum; above is the caudate lobe of the liver; and behind, the inferior vena cava. The gastro-splenic omentum (fig. 157, gs om) reaches from the Gastro- back of the stomach to the front of the spleen, and is continued below oirentum. into the great omentum. Between its layers are the gastric brandies of the splenic vessels. Folds of the large ixtestine. The disposition of the Peritoneal peritoneum round the several portions of the colon has been ex- ]arg| ^ plained in giving their relations (j). 476). The following processes intestine: pass between the large intestine and the abdominal wall :— The transverse meso-colon (fig. 157, m c) extends from the lower ^^^'^^^^^^j^. border of the pancreas to the transverse colon, to the left of the spot where the latter crosses the duodenum, and contains the middle colic vessels. In the adult it is formed by a continuation of tlie omental layers, but in the fcctus it was a distinct process of peri- toneum (p. 479). The upper end of the left colon has a distinct fold—xtleuro-colic or pieuro-coiic costo-colic, fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a ' ' wide end to the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs, it passes transversely inwards to the colon, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, sigmoid which attaches the loop of the sigmoid fiexure to the brim of the "i«so-coi.m; pelvis : it contains the sigmoid vessels. The meso-rectmn contains the superior lia^morrhoidal vessels, and and meso- attaches the upper part of the rectum to the front of the sacrum. ^ ' ' In some bodies the ascending and descending colon are surrounded sometimes by peritoneum, which meets behind the gut and forms a fold—the ingor ascending or descending meso-colon, between it and the abdominal wall, ^^g^!'^ The caecum may also be provided with a similar fold {meso-ccecum) or meso- attaching it to the right iliac fossa (p. 476). Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon ; they are the appendices epiploicm, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not Peritoneal enveloped by the peritoneum after the same manner throughout, small intes- For while the jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall by one process (mesentery), the duodenum has special relations with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. The first part of the duodenum Peritoneum has peritoneal relations like those of the stomach, but its posterior num!****^^' or left surface is only covered for a short distance by the serous I I 2484 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Mesentery : form: attach- ments. Peritoneal ligaments of the liver: falciform ligament coronary ligament; right latei'al ligament; left latf i al ligament. Splenic folds. inembraiie. The second part is covered in front, except at the spot where it is crossed by the transverse colon. And the last part, which crosses the aorta, is separated from the peritonenni in the middle by the superior mesenteric vessels (fig. 156), but is covered in front by the serous membrane on each side of them. In many cases the peritoneum extends inwards behind the end of the duode- num, forming a recess or pouch to which the name of duodeno-jejv- nal fossa has been given. Fold of the jejunum and ileum. The mesentery supports the rest of the small intestine, and is stronger than any other piece of the serous membrane. Its hinder end is narrow, and is attached along the front of the spine and great vessels from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right sacro iliac articulation. The other end of the fold is wide, and is coimected with the intestine. Ligaments of the liver. On the upper surface of the liver is the suspensorj'" ligament; and along the back there is a wide process which is divided into coronary, and right and left lateral ligaments. The suspensory or falciform ligament extends from before back- wards between the upper convex surface of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. Its lower border is concave, and fixed to the liver ; while the upper border is convex, and is connected to the abdo- minal wall on the right of the linea alba, and to the under surface of the diaphragm. In its free anterior border or base is the remains of the umbilical vein, which is named the round ligament of the liver. The coronary ligament is placed at the back of the right lobe of the liver, and is composed of two layers which are separated by an interval (p. 477). The superior layer passes from the liver to the diaphragm ; but the inferior layer (fig. 169, ^ c Z) is reflected over the front of the kidney and inferior vena cava. This layer becomes continuous round the Spigelian lobe with the posterior layer of the small omentum. The right lateral ligament (fig. 169, ?• Z Z) is a small fold at the right end of the coronary ligament, formed by the meeting of the two layers for a short distance. The left lateral ligament, larger than the foregoing, is a triangular fold of peritoneum, with a free edge turned to the left. It is attached by its anterior border to the liver above the margin of the left lobe ; and by its posterior border to the diaphragm in front of the oesophageal opening. At its right end the upper layer is con- tinued into the left side of the falciform ligament, and the lower layer into the front of the small omentum. Folds op the spleen (fig. 157). These are the gastro-splenic omentum and the lieno-renal ligament, the formation of which has already been explained. mesenteric vessels and sympathetic nerves. Examine Directions. The mesenteric vessels and nerves, which supply the t?intestfne. greater part of the alimentary tube, may be first dissected. AfterSUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 485 these have been examined, and the relations of the aorta and vena cava have been learnt, most of the intestine can be taken out to give room for the display of the viscera and vessels in the upper part of the abdomen. Mesenteric Vessels. The superior and inferior mesenteric ^^^1^^^*^"^^*^ arteries are two large branches of the aorta, which supply the intestine, except a part of the duodenum and the lower end of the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve. Dissection (fig. 158). For the dissection of the superior mesen- Dissection teric vessels and nerves, the transverse colon and the great omen- ^jfeggnteric tum are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and one layer vessels, (anterior or right) of the mesentery is to be removed. While trac- ing the branches of the artery to the small intestine, corresponding veins and slender oifsets of the sympathetic nerve on the arteries will be met with. Mesenteric glands and lacteal vessels also come into view at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intes- tine are to be next followed under the peritoneum ; and after all the branches have been cleaned, the trunk of the artery should be traced back beneath the pancreas. The surrounding plexus of and nerves, nerves should be also defined. The superior mesenteric artery (fig. 158, a) supplies wdiolly Superior the small intestine beyond the duodenum, and half the large intes- "rtery^^"*^ tine, viz., as far as the end of the transverse colon. Arising from the aorta near the diaphragm, the vessel is directed courses in downwards between the layers of the mesentery, forming an arch sentery; with the convexity to the left side, and terminates in oftsets to the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies beneath the pancreas relations, and the splenic vein ; and as it descends to the mesentery it is placed in front of the duodenum and the left renal vein. It is surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and accompanied by the vein of the same name. Branches. The artery furnishes a small ofi'set to the pancreas and and duodenum, intestinal branches to the jejunum and ileum, and colic branches to the large intestine. rt. The inferior pancreatico-duoclenal artery (b) is small, and Pancreatico- usually arises in common with the first intestinal branch. It is directed to the right between the pancreas and duodenum, to both of which it supplies branches, and anastomoses with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery from the hepatic. h. The intestinal hranclies for the jejunum and ileum (/) are twelve Branches to or more in number, and pass from the left side of the artery between li^] the layers of the mesentery. About two inches from their origin number and the branches bifurcate, and the resulting pieces unite with similar ^^^gj^"^^^" offsets from the collateral arteries, so as to form a series of arches, arches; From the convexity of the arches other branches take origin, which divide and unite as before. This process is repeated four or five times between the origin and the distribution, but at each branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the last set of arches twigs distribution on the "wx.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 486 are sent to tlie intestine on both aspects of the tube, and anastomose round it. Arteries of The hvcincJies to the large intestine are three in number, ileo-colic- large gut. i^\a\ix^ colic, and middle colic arteries. Ileo-coiic c. The ileo-colic artery (e) arises from the right side of the trunk, to aeonm."'' '^^^^ divides opposite the caecum into ascending and descending- branches. The ascending branch su2)plies the caecum with the Fig. 158.'^- Riglit (jolic branch sup- plies ascend- inu: colon. Middle coli branch passes to vermiform apjDendix and the beginning of the ascending colon, and anastomoses with the right colic artery; while the descending Ijranch joins in a loop with the termination of the mesenteric trunk, and distributes offsets to the lower end of the ileum. d. The right colic artery (cl) is frequently conjoined at its origin with the preceding. Near the "ascending colon it divides into ascend- ing and descending branches, which anastomose with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and with the middle colic on the other. e. The middle colic branch (c) springs from the upper j)art of the artery, and entering between the layers of the transverse meso- Superior mesenteric artery and its branches (Tiedemann). a. Superior mesenteric, h. Inferior pancreatico-duodenal. c. Middle colic, d. Right colic. Ileo-colic. /. Intestinal branches to the jejunum and ileum.INFEEIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. 487 vein. colon, divides into two branches ; the right one anastomoses with the transverse artery to the ascending colon, and the left with the left colic branch ' of the inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 159, c). The intestinal twigs are united in arches before entering the gut, like those to the brandies • 11 . , form arches. small mtestme. The swperior mesenteric vein (fig. 161, h) is formed hj the union Superioi- of branches from the intestine corresponding to the offsets of the '"'^^^ntenc artery. The trunk passes beneath the pancreas on the right side of the artery, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena portse. At the lower border of the pancreas it receives the riglit gastro- epiploVc branch from the stomach (fig. 161, c). The MESENTERIC LYMPHATIC GLANDS are numerOUS between the Mesenteri(3 layers of the mesentery. An upper group lies by the side of the ° artery, and contains the largest glands ; and a lower group near the intestine, is lodged in the intervascular spaces. The chyliferous lymphatics vessels of the small intestine, and the absorbents of the part of them!*^" the Large intestine supplied by the superior mesenteric artery, pass through the mesenteric glands in their course to the thoracic duct. Along the side of the ascending and the transverse colon are a few Meso-coiic, other small lymphatic glands, meso-coHc, which receive some absor- bents of the large intestine. Dissection (fig. 159). By drawing the small intestine over to the Dissection right side, the dissector will observe the inferior mesenteric artery mesenteric on the front of the aorta, a little above the bifurcation. The peri- Jirtery, toneum should be removed from its surface, and the branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intes- tine : a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be dis- sected afterwards. On the artery and its l)]'anches the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves ramifies. The inferior mesenteric vein is to be followed upwards beneath ami vein: the pancreas to its junction with the sujDcrior mesenteric or tlic splenic vein. On the ao-rta the dissector will meet Avith a plexus of nerves, aortic plexus. which is to be left uninjured. The INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY (fig. 159, 6) Supplies branches Inferior to the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, and communica- "rteryT^'^ ting with the superior mesenteric, continues the chain of anastomoses along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and origin, arises from the aorta from one to two inches above the bifurcation. It descends, lying at first on, and then close to the left side of the aorta, and after giving oS branches to the descending colon and the and sigmoid flexure, terminates as the superior hsemorrhoidal artery to i^^'^'iches. the rectum. a. The left colic artery (c) passes out in front of the left kidney. Left colic and divides into an ascending and a descending branch for the descending; supply of the descending colon : by the ascending offset it anasto- colon, moses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric. b. The sigmoid artery (d) is distributed to the sigmoid flexure, Sigmoid and divides into offsets which anastomose above with the preceding ^^"^"^^^ 1488 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. to sigmoid flexure. Branch to rectum. Inferior mesenteric A ein: colic, and below with tlie haemorrlioidal branch. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries before they reach the intestine. c. The superior hcemorrhoidal artery (e) crosses over the left com- mon iliac vessels, and enters between the layers of the meso-rectum, to be distributed to the lower end of the large intestine : it mil be described in the dissection of the pelvis. Tlie inferior mesenteric rein (fig. 161, d) begins in the part of the Fig. 159.* origin, eonrse, and termination. No valves in veins. Lymphatic glands. large intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends over the psoas muscle higher than the origin of the artery. Passing beneath the pancreas, the vein inclines to the right, and opens into the superior mesenteric trunk at its junction with the ^splenic, or sometimes into the splenic vein. Both mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be injected from the trunk to the branches, like an artery. Lymphatic glands are ranged along the descending colon and the * The lower mesenteric artery, and the aorta, seen by turning aside the npper mesenteric artery and the small intestine (Tiedemann). a. Aorta, h. Inferior mesenteric artery. c. Left colic, d. Sigmoid, and e. Superior hsemorrhoidal branches. /. Superior mesenteric, g. Renah h. Spermatic of the left side.VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. 489 sigmoid flexure. The absorbents of the intestine, after passing through these glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Nerve. The foUowincj plexuses of the sympathetic Plexuses of _ _ . . . ^ . . ■ 1 • the sympa- on the vessels, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, and m-thetie to the ferior mesenteric, are derived from the solar plexus beneath the ^'i^cera. stomach. The remaining portion of the symjiathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to (p. 497). Dissection. On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have Dissection already made out the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intes- tinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta the connecting nerves between aortic the mesenteric plexuses, by taking away the peritoneum below the P^^^"^' ^"'^ ])ancreas. From the upper part of the aortic plexus an ofi'set is to be followed along the spermatic artery ; this may be done on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By detaching the peritoneum below the bifurcation of the aorta, iiypogastiic and following doAvnwards over the iliac arteries the nerves from the P^®^"**' aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the Jiypogastric plexus, above the promontory of the sacrum. The superior mesenteric plexus is a large bundle of nerves, and is Superior distributed to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric piexus artery. The nerves surround closely the trunk and larger branches is on artery of the artery : but near the intestine some of them leave the vessels, same ' , ' name: and divide and communicate before entering the gut. The offsets secondary of the main plexus are named after the arteries which they accom- plexuses, pany, viz., intestinal nerves to the small intestine, and ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic plexuses to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is an open network of nerves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery ; it is stronger on the sides between^ than on the front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving acces- mesenteric sory branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. Above, the plexus derives an oftset, on each side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends below, on each side, in branches offsets, which cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus. From it offsets are furnished to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The spermatic plexus, formed by roots from both the aortic and the Spermatic renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle ; in the cord r^<^^"s • it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the ovarian (spermatic) artery are i7i female, furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plexus supplies the part of the intestinal inferior tube to which its artery is distributed. This plexus is furnished piexiis*r'^ from the left side of the aortic j^lexus ; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the j)receding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the sigmoid flexure the branching of the nerves join nerves and the union of contiguous twigs are well marked. Its ofi'sets ves^seis*'; (plexuses) are left colic, sigmoid, and suijerior hsemorrhoidal : they ramify on those arteries, and have a like distribution. ^' exuses. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre for the Hypogastric supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate i'^^^"^ '•490 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMExX. situation; in front of the last lumbar vertebra. It is formed by the union of formation; the prolongations of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are of large size, and interlace in a dense flattened mass, without any and ending, interspersed ganglia. Below, the plexus divides into two portions, right and left, which are coiitinued downwards on the inner side of internal iliac vessels to the pelvic jjlexuses. RELATIONS OF AORTA AND VJ^NA CAVA. Dissection of aorta. and vena cava. Aorta lies on front of spine : parts avonnd. Vena cava inferior: extent; relations; is by tlie side of the aorta, excejit above. Arteries crossing it and vein. Before the viscera are removed from the bodj, the relations of the abdominal aorta and vena cava may be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic arteries along the great curvature ; and after raising the stomach, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas, A short arterial trunk (coeliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be finite cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroj^ed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed up as far as the liver, where it disappears. The reLations of its upper end can be better observed after the dissection of the vessels of the liver. The AORTA enters the abdomen between the jjillars of the dia- 2)hragm, and divides into the common iliac arteries opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra. At its beginning the vessel lies somewhat to the left of the middle line ; and it commonly inclines slightly inwards as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta is covered at first by the pancreas, then l)y the third part of the duodenum, and for a short distance below by the peritoneum. Beneath the pancreas it is crossed by the splenic vein above the superior mesenteric artery, and by the left renal vein below that vessel ; and the solar and aortic plexuses of the sympathetic lie along its anterior surface throughout. It rests on the lumbar vertebiae, with the pillars of the diaphragm embracing it at the beginning. To its right side is the vena cava. For its relation to other deep parts see p. 533. The INFERIOR VENA CAVA begins o])])o.site the fifth lumbar vertebra by the union of the common iliac veins, and reaches thence to the heart. The venous trunk is placed on the I'ront of the vertebral colunin, to the right of the aorta. It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the same viscera as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but aboA^e that spot it is inclined away from the artery, and ascending in front of the diaphragm, is embedded in the back of the liver for about an inch and a half. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of, and higher than the aortic opening. Its relations with vessels are not the same as tliose of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the kidney is the spermatic. Superficial to it beneath the pancreas is the beginning of the portal vein.491 DUODENUM AND TANCilEAS. creas, with duct. RELATIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND TANCKEAy. Dissection. To see satisfactorily the duotleiiiuii and tlie j)ancreas, Remove} the intestinal tube beyond the duodenum is to be removed in the i^^t^sti"® following way :—A double ligature is to be placed on the upper part of the jejunum, and another on the lower end of the sigmoid ilexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through between the pieces of string where it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube is to be taken away b}^ cutting through the vessels, and the peritoneum connecting it to the wall of the abdomen. After it has been separated, it is to l»e set aside for future study Avhilc the body is turned. The student should mod-erately inflate the stomach and duodenum to see tiie from the cut extremity of the latter, and remoA e the htose peritoneiun and the fat : while cleaning them, he should lay l)ave the larger vessels and nerves. On turning upwards the stomach, the pancreas may be traced and pan- Irom the spleen on the one side to the duodenum on the other (fig. 160). By pulling forwards the duodenum, the common bile- duct may be found behind, between the intestine and the head of the pancreas ; and some of the pancreas may afterwards be removed, to show its duct entering the duodenum. Duodenum (fig. 160, d). The first part of the small intestine, Duodenum: or the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the stomach, and extent; crossing the S23inal column, ends at the duodeno-jejunal flexure (p. 475), on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It makes course and a curve round the head of the pancreas, and is placed in the epi- - gastric and umbilical regions of the abdomen. From its wdnding course round the joancreas it is divided into three portions, as division, follows :— The first or superior j^ortion is nearly horizontal, and is free and First parr is moveable like the stomach. It measures about two inches in length, Js^iJ^yeabie*? and is directed backwards from the pylorus to near the upper end of the right kidney. Above and in front are the liver and gall- bladder ; below is the head of the pancreas; and behind it are the common bile-duct, the portal vein, and the gastro-duodenal artery. The second or middle portion, about three inches in length, descends Second part to the level of the third lumbar A^ertebra, and is fixed almost and fixed.' immoveably by the peritoneum and the pancreas. In front of it are the liver and transverse colon ; behind it the inner l>order of the kidney and the renal vessels ; and on its inner side the head of the pancreas, with the common bile-duct. The ducts of the liver and pancreas open into this part of the duodenum. The third or inferior portion is the longest of all: it first crosses Tiiirdpartis from right to left opposite the third lumbar vertebra, and then iiso ffxed^."^ ascends for a short distance on the surface of the left psoas muscle to its termination in the jejunum. It lies in front of the vena cava and aorta, and its anterior surface is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels. Above it is the pancreas.492 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Pancreas; situation and form; relations, of surfaces of borders, and of ends. The peritonea] relations of the duodenum have been noticed at p. 483. Pancreas (hg. 160, e). The pancreas is situate behind the stomach, extending from the duodenum to the spleen, and occupy- ing parts of the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. In form it is elongated, with its right portion much expanded from above down, constituting the head ; this part lies in front of the first and second luml)ar vertebrse, the great vessels intervening. The gland is covered in front by peritoneum derived from the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. Its anterior surface is for the most part concave, corresponding to the stomach ; but in front of the spine it forms a projection {omental tuberosity, His) opposite the small curvature and lesser omentum. Posteriorly it is in contact with the vena cava, aorta, pillars of the diaphragm, left kidney and renal vessels, sj)lenic vein and beginning of the vena porta), and the solar plexus. Projecting above the pancreas, where it crosses the aorta, is the coeliac axis, from which the splenic artery runs to the left along the upper border ; while on the right side the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum lie above it. At the lower border is the third part of the duodenum ; and the superior mesenteric vessels emerge l)etween the two. • The head of the pancreas is received into the concavity of the duodenum ; and the common bile-duct lies between the two for a short distance behind. The greater breadth of the head is due to a portion of the gland being bent downwards; and this projecting part is directed to the left along the duodenum, beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. The left end or tail touches the spleen, and rests on the splenic flexure of the colon. CCELIAC AXIS AND PORTAL VEIN. Arteries of viscera. Veins. How to dis- sect coeliac axis, and branches, hepatic, and splenic. A short branch of the aorta—the coeliac axis—furnishes arteries to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, pancreas, and spleen : it subdivides into three primary branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The veins corresponding to the arteries (except the hepatic) are collected into one trunk—the vena portse. Dissection. The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and in tracing them out fully the student should spare the nerve-plexuses around them. Supposing the liver well raised, he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, and show its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach. Next, the hepatic artery, with the portal vein and the bile-duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall-bladder; and a considerable branch of the artery should be pursued beneath the pylorus to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which lies along the upper border of the pancreas, is to be cleaned ; and its branchos to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should be493 C(ELIAC ARTEEY AND BEANCHES. defined ; this is a difficult task witlioiit the aid of someone to hold aside the stomach and spleen. The veins will have been dissected for the most part with the veins, arteries ; but the origin of the portal trunk is to be made out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The CcELiAC Axis (fig. 160, c) is the first visceral branch of the Cceiiacaxis abdominal aorta, and arises close to the upper margin of the opening thJ?e foi-^'^^ in the diaphragm. It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch lowing :— long, which projects above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches— coronary, hepatic, and splenic—radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the surrounding viscera. The CORONARY ARTERY (d) is the smallest of the three, and runs ^^^^^IJ^,^ upwards between the peritoneum and diaphragm to the cardiac ^ orifice of the stomach. Having furnished some oesophageal branches, it then bends downwards, and passes between the layers of the small omentum, along the small curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the pyloric branch (o) of the hepatic artery. Its offsets are thus distributed :— a. (JEsophagecd branches ascend on the gullet through the opening offsets to in the diaphragm, and anastomose with branches of the descending pht^^^' thoracic aorta. b. Gastric brandies are given to both sides of tlie stomach, and g"^g^^f|, those on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. The SPLENIC ARTERY (e) is the largest branch of the ca?liac axis Splenic irterv in the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally ' to the spleen along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches, about seven in number (from four to ten), which enter that viscus by the surface towards supplies the the stomach. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it; and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. a. Pancreatic branches. Numerous small branches are supplied to ^y^j^^gg^^^jf^i the pancreas ; and one of these {arteria jpancreatica magna) arises small twigs, near the left end, and runs to the right in the gland Avith the duct. b. Gastric branches arise from the artery or its divisions near the g^^^^^^'^ji spleen, and pass to the stomach between the lavers of the gastro- ^ splenic omentum. Most of these {vasa brevia) are small, and bre\ia, ramify over the left end of the organ ; but one larger branch, the left gastro-epiplo'ic artery (/), turns to the right between the layers '^^^^J^^^ of the great omentum, along the great curvature of the stomach, ep'ii)loic. and inosculates with the right gastro-epiploi'c branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces of peritoneum forming the great omentum. The HEPATIC ARTERY (g) is intermediate in size between the Hepatic other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its ^^^^^^^^^ course to the liver, the vessel is directed at first to the right and the liver, forwards to the pyloric end of the stomach, Avliere it supplies itsDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 494 in which it gastiic branches. It then ascends between the layers of the small ^' omentum, on the left side of the bile-duct and portal vein, and divides near the transverse fissure of the liver into two—the right and snpi)]ie.s and left hepatic. Branches are distributed not only to the liver, but also to the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas, as below:— offsets to a. The gastro-duodenal artery is a short vessel which descends beneath the duodenum near the pylorus, and divides into the two following branches :— stomach, The (jastro-epiiiloic artery (h) is the continuation of the gastro-duodenal trunk, and runs from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach. It gives offsets upwards to the surface of the stomach, and downwards to the great omentum, and ends b}- inosculating with the left gastro-epiploi'c artery, and^^"""^ The superior iKmcreatico-duodenal artery {i) is of small size, and pancreas. descends between the duodenum and pancreas to join the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric. Offsets are given to both the viscera ; and on their posterior aspect is another small artery of the pancreatico-duodenal, with a similar position and distribution. h. The pyloric hranch (o) descends to the small curvature of the stomach, and, running from right to left, anastomoses with the coronary artery ; it distributes small twigs on both surfaces of the stomach. Branches to The hepatic hranches sink into the liver at the transverse fissure, the liver, ramify in its substance :— * View of the coeliac axis, and of the viscera to which its branches are supplied (Tiedemann). A. Liver, b. Grall-bladder, c. Stomach, d. Duo- denum. E. Pancreas. f. Spleen. Artej^ies: a. Aorta. h. Upper mesenteric. c. Coeliac axis. d. Coronary. e. Splenic. /. Left gastro- epiploic. (/. Hepatic. A. Right gastro-epiploic, i. Superior, and Jc, inferior pancreatico-duodenal. /. Phrenic, n. Cystic, o. Pyloric.495 POKTAL VEIN. c. The rujlit branch is divided when about to enter the organ, and one for tiie supplies the following small artery to the gall-bladder. and gaii^*' The cystic artery (w) bifurcates on reaching the neck of the gall- bladder, bladder, and its two twigs ramify on the upper and lower surfaces. d. The left branch is smaller than the other, and enters the liver and one for the left lobe. Vig. 161.* at the left end of the transverse fissure ; a branch to the Spigelian lobe of the liver arises from this piece of the artery. Portal Vein. The veins of the stomach and intestine, and of Portai the spleen and pancreas, pour their blood into the vena portse. The two mesenteric veins and their branches have been referred to (pp. 487, 488) ; and the three following, with the trunk of the portal vein, remain to be noticed. * Portal vein and tributaries (Henle). a. Trunk of the portal vein. h. Upper mesenteric. c. Right gastro-epiploic. d. Inferior mesenteric, c. Left gastro-epiploic. /. Pyloric (in this case of large size), g. Vense breves.496 DISSECTIOA^ OF THE ABDOMEN. Coronary vein. Pyloric vein. Splenic vein: tributaries. Portal vein origin: fiourse and relations; branches: ami tribu- taries. Peculiarities of portal vein. Riglit and left hepatic ducts. Common hepatic duct. Common bile-duct: length and course; termina- tion ; joined by pancreatic. The coronary vein accompanies the artery of the same name along the small curvature of the stomach, and bending downwards at the cardia, passes to the lower end of the portal vein or the adjacent part of the splenic vein. The pyloric vein (fig. 161,/) lies with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery along the lower part of the small curvature of the stomach, and opens into the portal vein op]30site the duodenum. The splenic vein (fig. 161) is of large size, and is formed by the union of branches from the spleen. It runs below the artery, and under cover of the pancreas, to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein (h) to form the vena portse. Between its origin and termination it receives branches corre- sponding with the following arteries,—vasa brevia {g), left gastro- epiploic (e), and pancreatic. The inferior mesenteric and coronary veins {d) sometimes open into it. The PORTAL VEIN (vcua portse; fig. 161, ct) is formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its origin is placed behind the head of the pancreas, and in front of the inferior vena cava. The vessel is about three inches long, and ascends beneath the first part of the duodenum, and then between the layers of the small omentum, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. While in the small omentum it lies behind the hepatic artery and bile-duct. The right branch is shorter and larger than tlie left, and ramifies in the right lobe of the liver. The left branch gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe, and enters the left half of the liver. In its course the portal trunk is joined by the coronary and pyloric veins from the stomach ; and the cystic vein from the gall-bladder enters the right branch. This vein commences by roots in some viscera of the abdomen, like any other vein ; but it has no valves, and it ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery. Its radicles communicate with the systemic veins on some parts of the intestinal tube, but more particularly on the rectum. Bile-ducts. Two hepatic ducts issue at the transverse fissure of the liver (fig. 169), one from the right and the other from the left lobe, and unite to form the following :— The common hepatic duct is an inch and a half long, and receives at its termination the duct of the gall-bladder, the union of the two giving origin to the common bile-duct. The common bile-duct (ductus communis choledoclius) is about three inches long. It descends almost vertically beneath the upper portion of the duodenum ; then passing between the pancreas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, it opens into this portion of the intestine at the inner side, and about the middle. While in the small omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. As it pierces the wall of the intestine it is joined commonly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately.EPIGASTEIC PLEXUS. 497 SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nerve, In the abdomen, as in the thorax, the General dis- sympathetic nerve consists of a gangiiated cord on each side of the nerve^s." vertebral column, and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. The chief prevertebral plexuses in the abdomen are the epigastric Two large or solar and the hypogastric. The epigastric plexus is placed e^^^^^g^j.jg behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis : it is continued downwards to the hypogastric plexus by the aortic plexus (p. 489). The hypogastric plexus dis- and hypo- tributes nerves to the pelvic viscera, and has already been noticed sa^*'"^*^- (p. 489). The knotted or gangiiated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its offsets is to ))e now examined. Dissection. To denude the epigastric plexus, the following dissec- ^^^g g^Q^jJ^^' tion is to be made :—After the air has been, let out of the stomach plexus,' and duodenum, the portal vein, the common bile-duct, and the gastro-duodenal artery are to be cut through near the j)ylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and |)ancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, the vena cava appears ; this is to be cut across above the junction of the renal veins with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will lind the large reddish semi-''^"'1 ti'e lunar ganglion of the right side ; and mixed up with the nerves of grngill!!'^^ the plexus are numerous lymphatic glands (cceliac glands), with a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. From its inner j)art he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on the branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion offsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper end the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen ; and deeper than the last, one or two smaller splanchnic nerves may be found as they issue through a fissure of the diaphragm, and throw themselves into the cceliac and renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumo-gastric Follow thc nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the small the"lfous curvature in front, near the oesophagus ; and the right nerve will nerves! be seen at a corresponding spot on the opposite as23ect. Branches from the right nerve are to be followed to the plexus of the sympa- thetic by the side of the coeliac axis ; and from the left, to the liepatic plexus. The EPIGASTRIC or solar plexus is a large network of nerves Soiar and ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and pillars of the P^^^"*^ • diaphragm, and behind the pancreas and inferior cava : it fills the ^pp'^'^™"'^"'' space between the suprarenal capsules of opposite sides, and g^^p_ ^^^tent; rounds the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic498 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. gives offsets on blood- vessels. Semilunar ganglia: situation; Several otrsets of the plexus. Plexus to the dia- phragm has a ganglion on right side. Suprarenal nerves. Renal plexus. Coeliac I ilex us divides like the artery, into coro- nary, splenic, and hepatic the last has secondary plexuses, vjz., pyloric, gastro- epiploic, duodenal, and cystic. nerves ; and it is joined also by a great part of the right pneiimo- gastric nerve. Large branches are furnished to the different viscera along the vessels. The semilunar ganglia, one in each half of the plexus, are the largest in the body, and are placed close to the suprarenal capsules, resting on the diaphragm : the ganglion of the right side is beneath the vena cava. At the upper end each is joined by the great splanchnic nerve. The mass is irregular in shape, and often divided into smaller ganglia ; from its outer side nerves are directed to the kidne}^ and the suprarenal capsule. Offsets of the ijlexus. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses round the vessels ; thus, there are cteliac, mesenteric, renal, sj)ermatic, diaphragmatic plexuses, &c. The diaphragmatic or phrenic plexus comes from the upper end of the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the artery to enter the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phrenic nerve of the cervical plexus and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion where the plexus is joined hj the spinal nerve ; and from it filaments are supplied to the vena cava and the suprarenal body : this ganglion is absent on the left side (Swan). The suprarenal nerves are very large and numerous, in comparison with the size of the viscus supplied, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. One of the splanchnic nerves communicates Avith this plexus. The renal plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion and outer side of the solar plexus, and is joined by the smallest si)lanchnic nerve. The nerves surround the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 489). The coeliac plexus is a direct continuation of the plexus around its artery : it is joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and by a branch from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. The plexus divides like the artery into three offsets—coronary, splenic, and hepatic. a. The coronary plexus accompanies the vessel of the same name to the stomach : it communicates with the left vagus nerve, h. The splenic pdexus furnishes nerves to the pancreas, and to tlie stomach along the left gastro-epiploi'c artery ; and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena portoe, the hepatic artery, and the bile-duct into the liver, and ramifies on those vessels : in the small omentum the plexus is joined by offsets from the left vagus. The following secondary plexuses are furnished around the branches of the liej^atic artery, and have the same name and dis- tribution as the vessels : A pyloric p)lexus courses along tlie small curvature of the stomach. Two other plexuses—right gastro-epiploic and pancreatico-cluodenal, correspond in distribution with the branches of each artery. A cystic plexus passes to the gall-bladder with the artery.499 ENDING OF PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVES. The remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already noticed (p. 489); but the derivation of the sujjerior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves. The large nerve perforates the crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- spianchuif lunar ganglion. wvxe, The small nerve conies through the same opening in the diaphragm small, as the preceding, and joins the cadiac plexus. The smallest nerve, Avhich is often absent, throws itself into the , - - ' ' smallest, renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves end on the stomach :— The left nerve divides into branches, which extend along tlie Ending of small curvature, and over the front of the stomach; these send ^"^^^ ^'^^''^ offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the li^iit. stomach near the upper border; it commiinicates with its fellow, and gives branches to the cccliac and splenic plexuses. Dissection. Most of the viscera are now to be removed from the Picpure fur abdomen, in order that tlie l)ody may be turned for tlie dissection of the back. The stomach and the spleen, with the duodenum and the pancreas, Jf^^^'^.yjJ",:^.., are to be taken away together by cutting through the oesophagus near the diaphragm, as well as the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is to be removed from the abdomen by dividing its liga- ments, and cutting the vena cava below the diaphragm. At the same time the left testicle, and the right kidney with the suprarenal body, should be removed for examination while the body is turned ; the former can be taken out by cutting through the spermatic cord, and the latter by dividing its vessels about the middle. Directions. - Supposing the body to be now turned for the dissec- Directions tion of the back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual dissector, time, the dissector may look first to the fascia lumborum, whicli is described in Chx^pter V., p. 392. The rest of the time should be occupied in learning the viscera included in the followinc; Section. Section IV. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between Dcnuition the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the masticated food is received to be clianged into chyme. Dissection. To see the form, the stomach must be blown up separate ^ ' and blow K K 2DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 500 lip the stoiiiaeii. Form, division Left end. and right. Cardiac and pyloric oponings. moderately, and the surface cleaned; but, previously, let tlie student detach the spleen, and cut through the duodenum close to the pylorus. Form and divisions. The stomacli is rather ]:)yriforni in sha})e, and in its natural condition strongly curved (tig. 155). Its size varies much in diflterent bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction to the right of the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about tAvelve inches long and four wide. There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or curvatures to be examined. The left end is called the fundus or great cul-de-sac, and projects- upwards to the left of the end of the oesophagus. The right or loyloric end is much smaller, and tapers to the duodenum. The cardiac ojjeimig, which communicates with the oesophagus, is placed two or three inches from the most prominent j)art of the fundus, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The jnjioric orifice opens into the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (pylorus), at this spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, where a firm circular thickening may be felt. The anterior and posterior surfaces are somewhat flattened when the viscus is empty, but rounded when it is distended : the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 473). The ujDper border or small curvature is concave, except for a short distance at the pyloric end. The lower border or large curvature is- :nid largv. much longer, convex, and when the organ is distended forms at the i:)yloric end a slight ^^rojection to the right, which has been named the antrum pylori or small cul-de-sac. An arterial arch and a fold of j)eritoneuui (omentum) are connected with each border. Structure. In the wall of the stomach are four coats, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous ; and belonging to these there are vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a coveriug to the stomacJi,. and is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an interval exists cori^esponding with the attachment of the small and large omentum : in these spaces are contained the vessels, nerves^ and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous- covering. Its fibres are unstriated or involuntary, and arranged in three sets, viz., longitudinal, circular, and oblique, in the order mentioned from without inwards. The longitudinal fih-es (fig. 162, a) are derived from the oesopha- gus ; they spread over the surface, and are continued to the pylorus and the small intestine. The fibres are most marked along the borders, particularly at the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of the stomach. The circular fibres (fig. 162, h) form the middle stratum, and will be best seen by removing the longitudinal fibres near the pylorus. Thev reach from the left to the right end of the stomach ; but at Surfaces Small curvature. Four strata in stomach. The serous coat is thii and adhe- rent. The muscu- lar coat is made uii of longi- tudinal. fircular.501 STEUCTURE OF STOMACH. tlie pylorus tliey are most numerous and strongest, and form a ring or sphincter (c) round tlie opening. The oblique fibres (tig. 162, e) are continuous with the circuhxr or and oblique deep layer of the oesophagus. On the left and right of the cardiac orifice they are so arranged as to form a kind of sphincter {d and e) (Henle) ; those on the left (e), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and spread out on the anterior and posterior €!urfaces, graduall}^ disappearing on them. Fibrous or submucous coat. By removing the muscular layer over The fibrous £i small space, the fibrous coat will appear as a white shining stratum ^u't firm."* Fig. 162.* of areolar tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their distribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, supposing the stomach to be distended with air. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open the stomach, Mucou.s but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a ^^'"^ recent specimen. This coat is a softish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death, feel and in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the membrane is less vascular than during digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is greater than in childhood or old age. When the stomach is contracted the mem1)rane is thrown into numerous folds; wavy ridges or rugce, which become longitudinal along the great <iurvature, towards the pylorus. The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the thickness; pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opposite the muscular disposition ring, which assists in closing the opening. If this membrane and Py^o^"-'^- * Diagram representing tlie arrangement of the muscular fibres of the sstomach. The external and middle layers are partly removed, a. External or longitudinal fibres, h. Middle or circular, c. Sphincter of the pylorus. d. Oblique fibres on the right of the cardiac opening, e. Oblique fibres, more numerous, on the left of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great end of the stomach. ,602 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. On 11 le sur- face are pits or alveoli; their size, shape, and ap]iear- Artcries ; lymphatics and nerves. tlie siibimicoiis layer are removed from the pyloric part of tlie stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. With the aid of a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when well washed, may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or alveoli (fig. 163), which measure from Y^oth to y^th of an inch across. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the stomach ; and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irregular. In the bottom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubular glands. Blood-vessels. The arteries of the stomach are derived from the branches of the coeliac axis, and have been seen to form an arch along each curvature (p. 493). From these arches branches pass to both surfaces of the stomach, and after supplying the muscular coat, divide in the submucous layer into minute vessels which enter the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins have a corresponding arrangement, and pass to the portal system (p. 496). Lyjiiphatics. The lymphatic vessels proceeding from the stomach run with the blood-vessels, and have a few small glands connected with them along the two curvatures. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic (p. 498), and can be followed to the filn'ous coat : small ganglia have been observed on them. SMALL IXTEBTIXE. Characters The three portions into which the small intestine is divided, have the following characters :— of duo- The duodenum is about ten inches long, and is more fixed than denuiii, ^j^^ ^^^^ ^j^^ intestinal tube. It is wider than either the jejunum or the ileum, and its muscular coat is also thicker. Into it the bile and pancreatic ducts pour their contents. of jejunum The jejunum and the ileum together measure about twenty feet nc I eum. length, and are connected with the mesentery. There is not any perceptible difference between the termination of the one and the beginning of the other, but two-fifths of the length are assigned to the jejunum, and three-fifths to the ileum. Between the ends, how- ever, a marked difference may be perceived ; for the upper part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower end of the ileum, and its width is also greater. structure. STRUCTURE. In the small intestine the wall is formed by the same number of layers as in the stomach, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. * Alveolar depressions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 32 diameters, with the minute tubes opening into them. (Sprott Boyd.)503 STRUCTURE OF SMALL INTESTINE. Ih'ssection. The different layers are to be examined on pieces, Dissection about three inches long, taken from the duodenum, the upper part of the jejunum, and the lower end of the ileum. After the pieces have been cut off, they are to be distended with air; and the serous covering is to be torn off for a short distance, to show tlie muscular coat, but in doing this, the external longitudinal fibres will be taken away without great care. The se7'ous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular Serous coat layer. To the jejunum and ileum it furnishes a covering, except at the attached side where the vessels enter: at this spot the peri- nearly toneum is reflected oft" to form the mesentery, and a sj^ace exists ^''"^i'^^**^' resembling that at the borders of the stomach. The peritoneum except in only partly surrounds the duodenum ; this peculiarity has been denunu tlescribed at p. 483. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, a superficial Muscular or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The fibres are pale in colour, formed by a and are not striated. The longitudinal fibres form a thin covering, which is most marked longitudinal at the free border of the gut. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the others, and and a cir- give the chief strength to the muscular coat. ^ "^"^ Dissection. On the removal of some of the muscular stratum from Dissect the jejunum or the ileum, the submucous fibrous layer will come ^i^^'^^^*^ coat, into view. The fibrous or submucous coat has the same position and use as the Fibrous coat T , • J^ , 1 like that in corresponding layer m tiie stomach. stomacii. Dissection. In the upper part of the duodenum the student is to seek glands seek some small compound glands—those of Brunner, w^hich are ^'^ • embedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the fibrous layer, when the muscular coat has been taken away. The pieces of intestine may be opened and washed to show the show mu- mucous coat; but the gut should be cut along the line of attachment the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's glands on the opposite side. Mucous coat. The lining membrane is thicker and more vascular Mucous at the beginning than at the ending of the small intestine. It is marked by numerous prominent folds (valvulce conniventes) ; and ^^"'-^'"''^^' the surface of the membrane is covered with small processes (villi) like the pile of velvet. Oc cupying the substance of tlie mucous coat surface, are numerous glands. and glands. The valvuUc conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are permanent ridges Folds: of the mucous membrane, which are arranged circularly in the ^nent?^ intestine and project into the cavity of the tube. Crescentic in length; form, they extend round the intestine for half or tAvo-thirds of its circumference, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger size and and smaller folds are met with, sometimes alternating ; and the *^^P*^^» larger are about two inches long, and one-third of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each is formed of a doubling of the mucous how formed; membrane, which encloses a prolongation of the submucous coat, with vessels, between the layers.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 604 extent on tlie intes- tine. Opening of bile-tluct: Tliey begin in the duodennm, about one or two inches beyond tlie pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle of the jejunum ; but beyond that point they become smaller and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudi- mentary. The folds are largest and most uniform beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile-duct. The aperture of the common tile and pancreatic ducts (fig. 164, e) is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches below^ tlie pylorus, and Tlie villi cover the surface ; situate situate in a small prominence of the mucous membrane, at the inner and posterior part of the duodenum (p. 491). A probe passed into the bile-duct will show its oblique course (half an inch or more) under the mucous coat. Occasionally the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct orifice. To see satisfactorily the following objects, some pieces of fresh intestine will be necessary. Villi. When a piece of the lower part of the duodenum, from which the mucus has been washed away, is examined in water, the mucous membrane will be seen to be thickly studded with small their shape, projections, like those on velvet. These bodies exist along the «2e, whole of the small intestine, and are irregular in form (fig. 166), some being triangular, others conical or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from ~o^^ 2"V^-^ inch; and they are best marked where the valvulse conniventes are largest. In the ;iud number, duodenum their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 on the same surface (Krause). Glands, In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine are * A small piece of the duodenum opened, with apart of the pancreas, show- ing the termination of the bile and pancreatic ducts (Henle). a. Duodenum. b. Pancreas, c. Common bile-duct. d. Pancreatic duct. e. Common opening of the ducts in the intestine. Several kiuds of gkmds.GLANDS OF SMALL INTESTINE. o05 Fig. 165. included the crypts of Lieberkiilin, solitary glands, and Peyer's and Erunner's glands. The crypts of Lieherkichn are minute simple tulles, which exist throughout the small intestine. They open on. the surface of the snucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands; but they are not to be recognised with tlie naked c^ye. The so-called solitary glands (fig. 166, b) are roundish white <:'minences, about the size of mustard-seed it' distended, which are scattered along Ihe small intestine, but in greatest num- ^ler in the ileum. Placed on all parts of the intestine, and even on or between the 'valvulse conniventes, they are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and ;ire surrounded at their circumference by ^ipertures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. These small Ijodies are nodules of lym- phoid tissue. The agiuinated (jlands or glands of Pcytr (tig. 165) exist chiefiy in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which measure from half an inch to two inches or more in length, and about half an inch in "svidth. They are situate on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment -of the mesentery, and their direction is longitudinal in the gut: usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the lower part of the ileum they are largest and most numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower end of the jejunum they become irregular in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. The patches are most distinct in young persons, iincl generally disappear in old age. The mucous membrane over the glands is hollowed into pits (fig. 165, 6), and is generally destitute of villi (fig. 166, a) ; but between the pits it has the same characters as in other parts. These patches are simply collections of lymphoid nodules of the same nature as the " solitary glands." The Glands of Brwuner are small compound bodies, similar to the buccal and labial glands of the mouth, which exist in the duodenum. For a distance of one or two inches near the pylorus they are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp-seed. Dissection. To demonstrate the areolar tissue between the coats <jf the intestine, a piece of the bowel turned inside out is to be inflated forcibly ; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few 4;uts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The Simple tubes. Solitary follicles: size and situation. size; situation; number; peculiari- ties ; composi- tion. Glands of Brunnei'. How to see the areolar tissue. *■ Peyer's patch, four times enlarged (Kolliker). a. Surface of mucous membrane covered with vilh. h. Pits over the follicles where villi are absent.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 506 air enters the wall of the intestine where the peritoneal covering is injured, and spreads thi'ough the whole gut ; but opposite the solitary glands, and the patches of Peyer, the mucous coat is more closely connected with the contiguous structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The piece of the intes- tine may be examined when it is dry. Arteries of Vessels of the intestine. The arteries are derived from the intestinal the intes- tine ; Fig. 166.* A n branches of the superior mesenteric trunk (p. 485), and enter th6 wall of the intestine at the attached border. They run at first beneath the serous coat, round the side of the bowel, and give off numerous ramifications, Avhicli anastomose freely together, and perforate the muscular coat, supplying branches to its substance. Finally, they break up into very minute twigs in the submucous veins; layer, before entering the mucous coat. The veins have their usual resemblance to the companion arteries. absorbents; The absorbents (lacteals) leave the intestine with the vessels and pass to the mesenteric glands (p. 4S7). and nerves. Nerves of the small intestine come from the upjier mesenteric plexus, and entering the coats by tlie side of the arteries, form plexuses with interspersed ganglia. Two coats Structure of the comrnon bile-duct. The bile-duct consists of an diict^ ^^f^i'^^alj strong fibrous layer, and of an internal mucous coat. On the surface of the inner membrane are the openings of numerous glands, branched mucous glands, which are embedded in the fibrous coat; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. Lx^RGE INTESTINE. Extent of The lar2;e intestine is the part of the alimentary canal between the the "^ut termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division, and its attach- ment by peritoneum to the abdominal wall, have been described (p. 475). * A. A piece of mucous membrane enlarged, with its vilh and tubules- Part of a Peyer's patch is also represented with the follicles (a), each having a ring of tubes at the circumference, b. A " solitary gland " of the small intestine, also enlarged, covered by villi (Boehm).LAEGE INTESTINE. 607 In length this portion of the alimentary canal measures about hve or six feet, —one-fifth of the length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement of the caecum, and gradually decreases as far as the upper part of the rectum : in the lower part of the rectum there is a dilatation above the anus. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished by the following characters :—It is generally of greater capacity, being in some places as large again, and is more fixed in its position. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations. Its wall is thicker, and attached to the surface, esj)ecially along the trans- verse colon, are small processes of peritoneum containing fat—the appen- dices epiploica3. Dissection. For the purpose of ex- amining the large intestine, the student should cut off and blow up the ceecuni, with part of the ileum entering it; and he should prepare in a similar way a 23iece of the transverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The areolar tissue and the fat are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The c^cuM, or the head of the colon (fig. 167, a), is the rounded end of the large intestine, which projects, in the form of a jjouch, below the junction of the ileum with it. It measures about two inches and a half in length, and rather more in width, though gra- dually narrowing below : it is the widest j^^nt of the colon, its inner side it is joined by the small intestine (h) ; and length Compared with small gut, larger, more fixed, not coiled, Definition of ctecum; At still receives ••/NT . P ileum and a small worm-like projection (c)—the vermiform appendix. lower there appendix. Appendix vermiformis (fig. 167, c). This little convoluted tube is attached to the lower and hinder part of the csecnm, of which it was a continuation at one period in the embryo. From three to six inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is connected to the inner side of the caecum by a fold of peri- toneum. Its hollow has an aperture of communication with the intestine (d). In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Vermiform appendix: attach- ment ; dimensions it is hollow. * Interior of a cseciim, dried and laid open. a. C?ecum. h. Small intestine, c. Vermiform appendix, and d, its aperture, e. Ileo-coHc piece of the valve at the junction of the small intestine. /. Ileo-csecal piece of the valve, g. Retinaculum of the valve on each side.DISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEN. 508 Dry the caecum, and open it to see the valve. Situation of the valve; two pieces in it. One ileo- colic ; the other ileo-ejccal ; these are joined at the ends, and form frajna. Opening in the valve. The valve a prolonga- tion of the wall of the gut. Appendix opens into tiecum. Ridges in the ca-cum ; ]iow formed. Pour strata in the wall of the gut. Serous coat differs along the intes- tine. Two layers 'Of fleshy lihres ; longitudinal in three bands. Dissection. To examine tlie interior of the caecum, and tlie valve between it and the small intestine, the specimen should be dried, and the following cuts should be made in it :—One oval piece is to be taken from the upper aspect of the ileum near its termination ; and another from the side of the coecum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine. Ileo-colic valve (fig. 167). This valve is situate at the entrance of the ileum into the large bowel. It is composed of two pieces, which project into the interior of the colon, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of communication between the two parts of the intestinal canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo-colic (e), projects horizontally into the large intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum with the colon. And the lower piece, ileo-ccecal (/), w^hich is the larger of the two, has a nearly vertical direction between the ileum and the caicum. At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together ; and the resulting prominence {(j) extends transversely on the front and back of the intestine, forming the frama or rdiimcida of the valve. Tlie size of the opening is altered by the distension of the intestine ; for when the retinacula of the valve are stretched the folds bounding the aperture are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is formed by circular muscular fibres of the intestinal tube, covered by mucous membrane and submucous tissue ; as if the ileum were thrust obliquely through the wall of the csecum, after being deprived of its peritoneal coat and the layer of longitudinal fibres. This construction is easily seen on a fresh specimen hj dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal filDres, and gently drawing out the ileum from the ctecuni. The opening of the ci'ppendix into the coecnm (d) is placed below that of the ileum. The mucous membrane parti}' closes the aper- ture and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of the gut, and correspond with depressions on the outer surface : these folds result from the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest enclose vessels. Structure of the colon. The coats of the large are similar to those of the small intestine, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. Serous coat. The peritoneum does not clothe the large intestine, throughout, in the same degree. It usually surrounds the coecum, but covers only the front and sides of the ascending and descending- colon (p. 483). The transverse colon is encased like the stomach, and has intervals along the borders, where the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed of longitudinal and circular fibres, as in the small intestine. The longitudinal fibres may be traced as a thin layer over the surface, but most are collected into three longitudinal bands, about509. STRIJCTUIIE OF THE COLON. ii third of an inch in width. One of these Lands is placed along posterior, the posterior or attached margin of the bowel, the other two are on fnternai'; the anterior and inner sides respectively. On the vermiform appendix the fibres form a uniform layer, but they are continued thence into the bands on the coecum and colon, and on the rectum the anterior and internal bands become united. When the bands are divided the intestine elongates^,—the sacculi and the lidges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. The circular fibres are spread over the whole surface, but are most and circular, marked in the folds projecting into the intestine. At the end of the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the Ijand of the internal sphincter muscle. l^he fibrous or snhmucous coat resembles that of tlie small intestine. Submucous It will be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings. ^I^fanfrut The mucous coat, which may be examined on opening the intes- mucous coat tine, is smooth, and of a j^ale yellow colour ; and it is not throAvn ^s without into special folds. The surface is free from ^'illi; and by this cir- cumstance the mucous membrane of the large can be distinguished and villi, from that of the small intestine. Tiiis ditierence in the two portions of the alimentary tube is well marked on the ileo-colic valve ; for the surface looking to the ileum is studded A\ itli villi, Avhile the surface continuous with the mucous lining of the large intestine is free from those eminences. Glands. The mucous membrane is thickly beset with very small Tubular tubular glands or crypts of Lieberkilhn, like those of the smail intes- tine ; and lymphoid nodules (solitary glands) are scattered over the and whole of the large intestine, but are most abundant in the caecum ISlles!'^ and vermiform appendix. Vessels and nerves. The distril^ution of the A'essels and nerves in Vessels, the wall of the large intestine is the same as in the small. andTJiii- The absorbent vessels, after leaving the gut, join the lymphatic piiatics. glands along the side of the colon. THE PAXCRExVy. The pancreas (fig. 160, e) is a narrow flattened glanil, frt»m six Form ancE to eight inches in length, and larger at the right than the left end. ^^"fe'^'^' It is divided into head, tail, and body. divisions. The head, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity of the The head duodenum ; and the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and ^^^^^ touches the spleen. The body of the gland measures about one inch and a half in and the breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. The rela- ^^^'^" tions of the pancreas to surrounding parts are described at p. 492. Dissection. Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface. Trace out and let the excretory duct be traced from the head to the tail by ^^'^ cutting away the substance of the gland. The duct will be recog- nised by its whiteness. Structure. The pancreas resembles the iiarotid gland in struc- '"'^ * - compoundDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 610 gland, ^ ture, consisting of separate lobules, eacli of which is provided "with distinct"^ a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct capsule; but it is t.apsnie. surrounded by areolar tissue, which projects into the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a greyish white colour, and are united into larger masses by areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. The duct of The duct of the pancreas (canal of Wirsung ; fig. 164, d) extends the gland: j^j^g whole length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower extent; than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the j^ancreas, where it 23i*esents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to branches; the head, it receives many branches. It finally ends by opening into the duodenum, usually in union with the common bile-duct (p. 504). Of the tributary branches, the largest is derived from the lower part of the head of the pancreas, size and The duct measures from yVth to yo^^ of an inch in diameter near strnctiiie. ^-[le duodenum. It is formed of a fibrous coat with a very smooth mucous lining. Vessels and Vessels, lyiuphafics, and nerves. The arteries and veins have been described (p. 493) ; and the lymphatics pass to the coeliac glands. The nerves are fiiniis]i('(l L)y the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. Consistence and colour. Form and position. Size and weight. Surfaces are phrenic, gastric, and renal. Borders anr extremities. Sometimes accessory spleens. Two coats and special The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or purple colour, sometimes approaching to grey. Its texture is friable, and easily broken under pressure. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed obliquely behind the great end of the stomach. Its size varies much. In the adult it measures comuKjiily about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one inch to one inch and a half in thick- ness. Its Areight lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather less in the female than the male. At the posterior or outer aspect it is convex towards the ribs. On the opposite side a longitudinal ridge separates an anterior or gastric surface from a narrow internal or renal surface, both of which are concave (p. 478). Just in front of the ridge is a groove, or more commonly a series of small depressions, where the branches of the vessels enter : this part is called the hilum of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notclied. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. Small masses of splenic substance, or accessory sjjleens (splenculi), varying in size from a bean to a moderate-sized plum, are found occasionally, near the hilum of the spleen, in the gastro-sjDlenic omentum, or in the great omentum. Structure. Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, a serous and a fibrous. It is formed by a network of fibrous or trabecular tissue, which contains in its meshes the splenic pulp. Throughout the mass the blood-vessels and the nerves ramifv. It has no duct.OBVIOUS STEUCTUEE OF SPLEEN. 511 Fig. 168.* The serous or imritoneal coat encases the spleen, covering the surface except at the hiluni and the ridge behind. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous coat. The fibrous coat (tunica propria) gives strength to the spleen, and forms a complete case for it. At the hilum this investment passes into the interior with the vessels, to which it furnishes sheaths ; and if an attempt is made to detach this coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with its deep surface. Its colour is whitish ; and it is made up of areolar and elastic tissues. Dissection. The spongy or trabecular structure will l)est appear by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh bullock's spleen under water, so as to remove the inner grnmousdooking material. The trabecular tissue (hg. 168) forms a network through the whole interior of the spleen, similar to that of a sponge, which is joined to the external casing, and forms sheaths around the vessels. Its processes or threads are white, flattened or cylindrical, and consist of fibrous and elastic tissues, with a few muscular fibres. The interstices communicate freely together, and contain the pulp of the spleen. The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass, which is lodged in the areola) of the tra- becular structure, and consists in great part of blood. In a fresh section small whitish spots (about g^yth of an inch in diameter) may be seen scattered amongst the dark pulp : these are the MalpigJiian corpuscles of the S23leen—lym])hoid nodules attached to the small branches of the artery. Blood-vessels. The larger branches of the splenic artery are surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabecuhx- ; Imt the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which are said to open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. There are few or no anastomoses between the arterial branches in the organ. The splenic vein is supposed t(j begin in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. The small branches resulting from the imion of these radicles anastomose freely together, and unite into trunks larger than the accompanying arteries, which issue by the hilum of the spleen. Lymphatics and nerves. The lymphatics are superficial and deep, and leaving the organ at the hilum, traverse small glands lying along the sj^lenic vessels on their way to the cooliac glands. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and surround the artery and its branches. * Trabecular structure of tlie spleen of the ox. Serous coat nearly comi)lete. Fibrous coat sends iu- Avards pro- cesses, structure. Interior of spleen, (lispositio of fibrous tissue to form ;ni areolar structure. Pulp of spleen. >Iali)I;;liian bodies. .Splenit; artery : ending; no anasto- moses. Vein begins by open spaces; branches anastomose. Lymphatics. Nerves.512 DISSECTION or THE ABDOMEN. THE LIVER. Office or the liver. Clean A-essels on uuder surface; follow left piece of vena porta^ Colour and consistence; weight; measure- ments. Form altered when re- moved ; divisions. Upper sur- face smooth; lower sur- face uneven hinder sur- face also iiTeo'ular. Anterior border thin and notched The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the body» Its dnct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection (fig. 170). Preparatory to examining the liver, the- vessels at the under surface should he dissected out. This j)roceed- ing will he facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena portse with tow or cotton-wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its duct. The several vessels and the ducty are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder is to be cleaned. On following outwards the left brancli of the portal vein to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found unitet]i anteriorly with the round ligament (c) or the remains of the uml^ilical vein, and posteriorly with the thin fibrous remnant of the- ductus venosus (d). The LIVER is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence, and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds. Trans- versely the gland measures from ten to twelve inches ; from front to back between six and seven inches ; and in thickness, at the- right end, about three inches, but this last measurement varies- much with the spot examined. The natural shape of the liver when within the body is very different from the form it assumes when removed and placed on a flat surface, as may be seen by comparing fig. 169, which represents the organ hardened in situ, with fig. 170. It has three surfaces-— superior, inferior, and posterior,— one well-defined border—tlie anterior,—and two extremities. The inferior and posterior surfaces are farther subdivided into lobes by fissures which contain vessels,, and marked by foss£e and impressions. ■ The position and relations of the liver are described at p. 477, and the j^eritoneal ligaments at p. 484. Surfaces. On the upper aspect the liver is smooth, and marked towards the left side by a shallow impression for the heart. The suspensory ligament extends from front to back of this surface, and divides it into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The imder surface (fig. 169) is rendered irregular by fissures and fosstie ; in contact with it is the gall-bladder ; and a longitudinal sulcus separates the right from the left lobe. The 2JOsterior surface, which is also divided into two by a con- tinuation of the longitudinal sulcus, is broad over the right lobe,, but narrow on the left. In the centre is a hollow for the spine, to the right of which the inferior vena cava is partly embedded in the liver. On the right of the cava, the surface is rough between the layers of the coronary ligament (fig. 169, ■^) where it was adherent to the diaphragm ; and close to the vein is a small hollow {supra- renal impression; sr i) into which the right suprarenal body is- received. Border. The anterior border is thin, and is marked by two notches : one is opposite the longitudinal sulcus on the under51B LOBES OF THE LIVER. surface before alluded to, and tlie other is over the large end of the gall-bladder. Extremities. The right extremity is thick and rounded; and the Extremities, left is thin and flattened. Lobes. On the under and posterior surfaces the liver is divided Lobes are primarily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the antero-posterior two large, or longitudinal fissure ; and occupying part of the right lobe are g^^Jj^'^^^ three others, viz., the quadrate, Spigelian, and caudate lobes. The left lobe is smaller and thinner than the right ; on its poste- Left lobe rior aspect is a groove (oesophageal groove; fig. 169, ^) which lodges iJySpha- gus and stomach. Fig. 169.* the lower end of the oesophagus, and widens out below into a hollow for the stomach {gastric impression; g i), occupying the greater part of the under surface of the lobe ; but next to the longitudinal fissure is a considerable elevation {omental tuberosity; o t), which lies against the small omentum and the lesser curvature of the stomach. The right lobe forms the greater part of the liver, and is separated Rig^^t ]^^^ from the left by the longitudinal fissure below and behind, and by the suspensory ligament above. The under surface has a fossOi for fossa for ^ ° ^ ^ gall-bladder, * The Hver, viewed from below and slightly from behind (after His). Sub- divisions and markings : On the left lobe—ce g. (Esophageal groove, g i. (rastric impression, o t. Omental tuberosity. On the right lobe—S I. Spigelian lobe, c I. Caudate lobe, q I. Quadrate lobe, sr i. Suprarenal impression. d i. Duodenal impression, r i. Renal impression, c i. Colic impression. Vessels, (tc. : v c. Inferior vena cava, p v. Portal vein. Ji a. Hepatic artery. b d. Common bile-duct: the last three occupy the portal fissure. It. Liga- mentum teres, lying in the fore part of the longitudinal fissure, g h. Grall- bladder. Cut edges of peritoneum: s o. The two layers of the small omentum, icl. The inferior layer of the coronary ligament, rll. Right lateral ligament. * Surface uncovered by peritoneum. L LDISS^ICTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 0U impressions for duo- denum, kidney, colon, and supra- renal body, and three small lobes, viz., quadrate. Spigelian, and caudate. Three fissures, viz., portal or transvers longitudi na], and one for vena cava. Vessels in the transverse fissure. Hepatic duct. the gall-bladder, and is marked to tlie right of this by three impres- sions ;—the one next to the gall-bladder is the duodenal impression (fig. 169, d i), and corresponds to the second part of the duodenum ; more externally is the renal impression (r i) for the right kidney ; and farther forwards is the colic impression (c i) where the liver rests on the transverse colon. On the posterior surface is the suprarenal impression {sr i) already referred to. The three following so-called lobes also are portions of the surface of the right lobe :— The quadrate lobe {q I) is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the viscus. It is impressed by the pyloric end of the stomacli and the beginning of the duodenum. The Spigelian lobe (S I) is the part between the longitudinal fissure and the inferior vena cava, and belongs mainly to the posterior surface of the liver. It forms the bottom of the hollow for the spine, from which it is separated by the diaphragm and the aorta ; and it appears on the under aspect of the organ as a slight projection behind the transverse fissure. The caudate lobe (c I) is a narrow, elongated eminence, which is directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse fissure, so as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates this projection subsides in the right lobe. Fissures. Extending nearly half way across the right part of the liver, between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, and the quadrate lobe on the other, is the transverse or portal fissure. It is situate much nearer the back than the front, and contains the portal vein, hepatic artery, and the nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the liver. At the left end it is united at a right angle with the longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure (fig. 170, f) extends from the front to the back of the liver, between the right and left lobes. In it, anterior to the transverse fissure, lies the remnant of the umbilical vein (c), which is called the round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis) ; and behind that fissure is a small fibrous cord {d), the remains of the vessel named ductus venosus in the foetus. The groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by the liver. If the cava {a) be opened, two or three large and some smaller hepatic veins will be observed entering it. Vessels of the transverse fissure. The vessels in the transverse fissure, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery and duct, have the following jDosition;—the duct is anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The hepatic duct (fig. 170, e) is formed by two branches,—one from the right, and one from the left lobe, Avhich soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder (/) ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile-duct {g).515 VESSELS OF THE LIVER. The hepatic artery (Ji) is divided into two for the chief lobes, and Hepatic its branches are surrounded by nerves. The portal vein (6) divides, like the artery, into two trunks for Vena port^e. the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe ; its left branch is the longer. Faital condition of the umbilical vein. Before birth the umbilical Uinbilicai vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the f^tnl^, ^^'^ vena cava ; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venoms. Branches are supplied from it to both lobes of the liver; and a large one, directed to the right lobe, is joined by the portal vein. Placental or purified blood courses through the vessel at that period. Fig. 170.* Adult state. After birth the part of the umbilical vein in front of condition the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the mm<i'^^^^'^ ligament (fig. 170, c) or ligamentum teres. The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord (d) remaining in its place. But the lateral branches remain open, and subsequently form the divisions of the portal vein. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found pervious for some distance. Obvious structure of the liver. The substance of the liver Lobular consists of small masses called lobules, together with vessels which ei™jse"i v,^ are concerned both in the production of the secretion, and in the two coats, nutrition of the organ. The wliole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely. Serous eo;<t, * Under surface of the Hver, as it appears after removal from the body, with the vessels and duct dissected out. A. Right, and b, left lobe. c. Quadrate lobe. d. Spigelian, and E, caudate lobe, f. Longitudinal fissure, G. Grail-bladder, a. Vena cava. 6. Vena portte. c. Round ligament, d. Ligament of the ductus venosus. e. Common liepatic duct, /. Cystic duct, ^. Common bile-duct, h. Hepatic artery, L L 2516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. wliere deficient. Fibrous coveriug i prolonged into the interior. Lobules of the liver: size and appearance forni: position 1( veins. Vessels in the liver. Capsule of Glisson. Portal vein occupie.'! portal canals, and supplies branches: receives vaginal branches. Hepatic artery and adheres closely to tlie fibrous coat. At certain spots intervals exist between the two, viz., in the fissures occupied by vessels, along the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching the gall-bladder. The fibrous covering is very thin, but it is rather stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) surrounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lobules. The lobules (fig. 171, I) constitute the proper secreting substance, and can be seen either on the exterior of the liver, on a cut surface, or by means of a rent in the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of a pin's head, and measure from ^V^h to yV^h of an inch in diameter. Closely massed together, they possess a dark central point; and there are indications of lines of separation between them, though they are to some extent united together. By means of transverse and vertical sections of the lobules, their form will appear flattened on the exterior, but many-sided in the interior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest divisions of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre, something like the union of the stalk with the body of a small fruit. Vessels of the liver. Two sets of blood-vessels ramify in the liver :—One enters the transverse fissure, and the branches are directed transversely in spaces (portal canals) where they are enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set (hepatic veins) run from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver for the most part without a sheath. The ramifications of these different vessels are to be followed in the liver. The capsule of Glisson is a layer of areolar tissue, which envelops the vessels and the ducts in the transverse fissure, and is continued on their branches in the portal canals. In this sheath the vessels ramify, and become minutely divided before their termination in the lobules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrou.nding tissue. The portal vein ramifies in the liver like an artery ; and the blood circulates through it in the same manner, viz., from trunk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides into large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces, with ofl'sets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 171, p). Tlie division is repeated again and again, until the last branches of the vein (interlobular) penetrate between the lobules, where they communicate together, and supply the hepatic substance. In the portal canals the oftsets of the vena portfe are joined by small vaginal and capsular veins, which convey blood from branches of the hepatic artery. The hepatic artery (fig. 171, c), while surrounded by the capsule,OBVIOUS STRUCTURE OF LIVER. 517 furnislies vaginal hranches, which ramify in the sheath, giving it a red appearance in a well-injected liver, and supply twigs to the coats of the portal vein and biliary ducts, and to the areolar tissue : from the vaginal branches a few offsets (caimdar) are given to the coat of the liver. Finally, the artery ends in fine interlobular hranches, from which offsets enter the lobules. The hepatic veins (vense cavse hepaticse) begin by small intralobular veins from the centre of the lobules ; these are received into the suh- lobular branches^ which anas- tomose together, and unite into larger vessels. Finally, uniting with neighbouring branches to produce larger trunks, the hepatic veins are directed from before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The hepatic veins may be said to be without a sheath, except in the larger trunks; so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent, in consequence of their close connection with the liver structure. Hepatic duct. The biliary ducts follow the portal vein in their mode of branching, and run with the other vessels in the portal canals (fig. 171, d). They issue from the liver at the transverse fissure in a right and left trunk, which by their union form the common hepatic duct (fig. 170, g).t Structure. The moderately-sized hepatic ducts consist of a fibrous coat, lined by a mucous layer ; and penetrating the wall is a longi- tudinal row of openings, on each side, leading into sacs, and into branched tubes which sometimes communicate. Lymphatics of the liver are superficial and deep. The superficial of the upper surface in part join the lymphatics of the thorax by piercing the diaphragm, and enter the anterior mediastinal glands ; those of the under surface mainly join the deep lymphatics issuing at the portal fissure. The deep lymphatics accompany both sets of vessels in the liver ; those with the portal vein descend through some small glands in the lesser omentum and end in the coeliac glands; while those * Vessels in a portal canal, and the lobules of the liver (Kiernan). I. Lobules of the liver, p. Branch of the portal vein, with a, a, small branches which supply interlobular offsets. c. Hepatic artery. d. Hepatic duct. i, i. Openings of interlobular branches of the portal vein. f Aberfant ducts exist betvs^een the pieces of the peritoneum in the left lateral ligament of the liver, and in the bands bridging over the round ligament and vena cava ; they anastomose together, and are accompanied by brancbes of. the vessels of the liver, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. nourishes the vessels and capsule: ending in lobules. Hepatic veins with- out a sheath. right, left, and common hepatic ducts. Structure of medium- sized ducts. Lympha- tics ; superficial, and deep.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 618 accompanying tlie hepatic veins pass throiigli tlie diaphragm, and enter the glands of the posterior mediastinum. Nerves. Nerves come from the sympathetic and the pneumo-gastric, and ramify with the hepatic artery. THE GALL-BLADDER. Use and situation form; relations Duct of sal bladder; The gall-bladder (fig. 169, g h) is the receptacle of the bile. It is situate in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and to the right of the quadrate lobe. It is pear-shaped, and its larger end (fundus) is directed forwards beyond the margin of the liver; while the smaller end (iiech) is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to terminate in the cystic duct by a zigzag part. In length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the widest part. It holds from an ounce to an ounce and a half. By one surface it is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end Fig. 172.* touches the abdominal wall opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib (fig. 155, 6), where it is con- tiguous to the transverse colon; and the small end is in contact with the duodenum. Structure. The gall-bladder possesses a peri- toneal, a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free surface of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end. The fibrous coat is strong, and forms the framework of the sac ; intermixed with it are some involuntary muscular fibres, the chief being longitudinal, but others circular. The mucous coat is marked internally by numerous ridges and intervening depressions, which give an alveolar or honeycomb appear- ance to the surface. On laying open the gall- bladder this condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to diminish towards each ex- tremity. In the bottom of the larger pits are depressions leading to recesses. Where the gall-bladder ends in the cystic duct (fig. 172) its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges resembling those in the sacculated large intestine. The cystic duct (6) joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form the common bile-duct. It is about an inch and a half long, * Gall-bladder and its duct. a. Gall-bladder, h. Cystic duct. c. Ridges in the interior, d. Common bile-duct. e. Common hepatic duct.ANATOMY OF THE KIDNEY. and is distended and somewhat sacculated near the gall-bladder. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of the sac structure from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are very few. The amUs^pro-^ mucous lining is provided with glands, as in the hepatic and common vided with , ^ & ^ i glands. biJe-ducts. On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to Mucous coat form about twelve semilunar projections (fig. 172, c), which are ^'^^ ^ arranged obliquely around the tube, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This structure is best seen on a gall-bladder which has been inflated and dried, as in this state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Blood-vessels and nerves. The vessels of the gall-bladder are named Artery and cystic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein opens into the right branch of the vena portse. The nerves are nerves and derived from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the lymphatics on lymphatics, the under surface of the liver. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The KIDNEY has a characteristic form, resembling an oval with Kidney: one side (the inner) somewhat hollowed out, and being compressed ^*'™' from before backwards. For the purpose of distinguishing between to distiu- the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin be turned ^^"'^^1^11^'' inwards, with the ureter or excretory tube behind the other vessels ; and let that end of the viscus be directed downwards, towards Avhicli the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of a deep Colour; red colour, and has an even surface. Its average length is about four size; inches.; its breadth two and a half inches ; and its thickness rather more than one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. Its usual weight is alDout four ounces and weight, and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The left kidney is slightly heavier than the right. The upper extremity of the kidney is broader than the lower, and Extremi- is surmounted by the suprarenal body. The lower end is more*'^^' pointed. The position with respect to the spinal column has been before detailed (p. 478). On the anterior surface the viscus is rounded, but on the opposite surfaces; surface it is more flattened. The outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is borders. marked by a longitudinal fissure—the hilum. In the fissure the ^"^^^"j^^^j.^^ vessels are thus placed with respect to one another :—The divisions ^j^^.^. of the renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches position. of the artery lie between the two. On the vessels, the nerves and lymphatics ramify; and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. The fissure leads into a hollow named the sinus, in which the vessels sinus. and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. Dissection. To see the interior it will be necessary to cut through Open the kidney, andDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 520 clean the vessels. Renal substance divided into (iortical and pyramidal. Pyramids : number; apex ends in papilla; Extent of cortical sulbstance: colour; consistence. Fibrous coat sends in offsets. Fig. 173.^ Blood- vessels tlie kidney from the inner to the outer border, and to remove the loose tissue from the vessels and the divisions of the excretory duct. The sinus containingthe blood-vessels now comes completely into view. The interior of the Jddney (fig. 173) is seen on a section to consist of an external granular or cortical portion, and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal masses, which converge towards the centre. The pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi; d) are from eight to eighteen in number, but generally more than twelve. The apex of each mass, which is free from cor- tical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla (c). In it are the openings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in number, some being situate in a central depression, and others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the divisions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Oc- casionally two of the masses are united in one papillary termination. The base is embedded in the cor- tical substance, and from it slender processes are continued into the cortical covering. The cut surface of the pyramid has a striated appearance, owing to the arrangement of the uriniferous tubules composing it, and the blood-vessels. If the mass is compressed in a fresh kidney, urine will exude from the tubes through the apertures in the apex. The cortical part (fig. 173, e) forms about three-fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer about two lines in thickness, and sends prolongations between them nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is blanched ; and its consistence is so slight that the mass gives way beneath the finger. In the injected kidney red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered through the cortex, giving it a granular appearance. The kidney has a fibrous tunic or capsule, which is connected to the glandular substance by fine processes and vessels, and is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner margin of the kidney it sinks into the sinus, where it sends processes on the enter- ing vessels, and becomes continuous with the outer coat of the excretory duct. Blood-vessels. The artery and vein distributed to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the organ they suppl}^ * Section through a piece of the kidney, showing the medullary and cortical portions, and the beginning of the ureter, a. Ureter, h. Pelvis, c. Calyx. d. Pyramids Cortical portion of the kidney.ANATOMY OF THE UEETER. 521 Renal artery. Before reaclimg the kidney the renal artery divides Brandling into four or five pieces ; and these in the sinus break up into artery, smaller branches, which enter the organ between the papillae. They run in the processes of cortical sul^stance that separate the pyramids, being surrounded by sheaths from the fibrous capsule, and undergoing farther subdivision, until they reach the bases of * • the pyramids. Here the l^ranches form arches, from which the minute offsets to the secreting structures are given off. Some twigs are supj)lied to the capsule of the kidney ; and these anastomose with the subperitoneal branches of the lumbar arteries. Renal vein. The larger branches of the vein spring from arches Vein agrees like those of the artery, and take a similar course through the ^^^^ artery, cortical septa to the sinus. In the neighbourhood of the hilum all are commonly united into one trunk, which joins the inferior cava. Nerves. The ramifications of the sympathetic nerve may be traced Nerves, to the smaller branches of the artery. The absorbents are superficial and deep. Both unite at the hilum Lymphatics, of the kidney, and join the lumbar glands. The URETER is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the kidney ureter: is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and termination office; the canal measures from fourteen to sixteen inches in length. Its length; size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill. Near the size varies; kidney it is dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named pelvis ; and near the bladder it is again somewhat enlarged, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the narrowest part of the tube. Its relative anatomy must be studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. In its course from one viscus to the other, the ureter is close course beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the pelvis. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas, inclining on the right side and towards the inferior vena cava ; and about the luiddleof the muscle it is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or the external iliac artery, being beneath the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it inclines forwards below the level of the obliterated hypo- gastric artery to reach the base of the bladder (p. 555). Sometimes the ureter is divided into two for a certain distance. Occasionally Part in the kidney (fig. 173, b). Near the kidiiey the ureter is -dilated into a funnel-shaped part called the jpelvis. It begins in the Jjiated near sinus of the kidney by a set of cup-shaped tubes, named calices or the kidney; infundibula, which vary in number from seven to thirteen. Each calices, cup-shaped process embraces the rounded end of a pyramidal mass, which T . I . n -1 . . embrace and receives the urine from the apertures in that projection : some- papiiiaj. times a calyx surrounds two or more papillae. The several calices are united together to form two or three larger tubes ; and these are finally blended in the pelvis. Structure. The chief part of the wall of the ureter is composed of Three coats a muscular coat, in which there is an outer layer of circular, and an522 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK fibrous, inner layer of longitudinal fibres. This lias an external investment and mucous, fibroiis tissue, and is lined by mucous membrane. The caiices The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a fibrous, a coats^^^^*^ muscular, and a mucous coat. Around the base of the papilla the outer coat of the calyx is continuous with the enveloping tunic of the kidney ; and at the apex the mucous lining is prolonged into the uriniferous tubes through the small openings. Vessels, Vessels. The arteries are numerous but small, and are furnished by the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The? vei7is correspond with the arteries. Lymphatics. The lymphatics are received into those of the kidney. THE SUPRARENAL BODY, Suprarenal capsule : use unknown ; no duct. Situation; colour; and form. HilunV. Size and weight. Relations. Consists of two parts. with a fibrous caijsule. Cortical and medullary parts. Arteries. This small body, the use of which is unknown, has received its name from its position to the kidney. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, l)ut it is not provided with any excretory duct. One on each side, it is situate on the upper end of the kidney^ with an inclination to the inner side ; and without care it may be removed with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its colour is a brownish-yellow. It is rather triangular in shape, and flattened from before back, but with the upper angle rounded off, and the base or lower part hollowed, where it touches the kidney. On the .anterior surface is a transverse fissure, termed the hilum, where the vein issues. In the adult it measures about one inch and a half in depth, and rather less in width ; and its weight is between one and two^ drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right. Areolar tissue attaches the suprarenal body to the kidney; and the vessels and nerves retain it in place. The relations to surround- ing parts are the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus, it rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; while in front of the right is the liver, and in front of the left the pancreas and the stomach. On the inner side of the right capsule are the vena cava and the solar plexus ; and internal to the left are the aorta, with the coeliac axis, and the solar plexus. Obvious structure. A vertical section of a fresh suprarenal body shows it to be formed of an external or cortical layer, and an internal or medullary substance. The whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule, which sends processes into the interior, and along the blood-vessels. The cortical part is of a deep yellow colour, and firm. It forms about two-thirds of the thickness of the whole body, and in the section appears striated perpendicularly to the free surface of the organ. The medullary part is dark brown or nearly black, and very soft and pulpy. If the specimen is not fresh, it may look as if the cortical part enclosed a cavity. Blood-vessels. Numerous arteries are furnished to the suprarenal body from the aorta and from the diaphragmatic and renal arteries.ANATOMY OF THE TESTICLE. 523 Their small branches penetrate the organ at many spots of its cir- cnmference. The veins are for the most part collected into one Veins, large trunk, which issues by the liilum, and opens on the right side into the vena cava, on the left into the renal vein. Other smaller veins pass out through the cortex to the renal vein and the vena cava. Nerves. The nerves are very numerous and large, and come fro]u Nerves, the solar plexus. Lymphatics ai-e superficial and deep ; botli join those of tJie Lymphatics, kidney. THE TESTICLE. The testicles (testes) are the glanduhir organs for the secretion of Testes the semen. Each is suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic scrotlm'" cord and its coverings (p. 457), but the left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided Math an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac partly surrounds each organ. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the serous covering of To see the the testicle (tunica vaginalis), make a small aperture into it at the upper part, and inflate it. The sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned ; and the vessels of the latter are to bo followed to their entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaginalis (fig. 174, d) is a serous bag, which is con-Tuuica tinuous in the foetus witli the peritoneal lining of the abdomen, but '^^"'"^^'^ becomes subsequently a distinct sac through the obliteration of the part connecting the two (p. 457). It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes ; partly for the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped by tes\1cief^^ it. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covering the and lines testicle, and projects some distance above it. Like other serous ^^^ot"'" = membranes, it has an external rough, and an internal smooth sur- face ; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal j^art. To examine its disposition, the sac should be opened. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the testicle, visceral except posteriorly where the vessels lie. On the outer side it i'^'"^' extends farther back than on the inner, and invests the greater part of the epididymis, forming a pouch (digital fossa) lietween that body and the testicle. The parietal part of the sac (tunica vaginalis scroti) is more and parietal, extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the con- tiguous layer of the scrotum. Form and position of the testis (fig. 174). The testicle is oval in Testicle shape, with a smooth surface, and is somewhat compressed from side ""^'^^' to side. The anterior margin is convex and free; the posterioi', margins, which is flattened, is pierced by the spermatic vessels and nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer side is the epididymis (h). Epidi<iynus. Attached to the upper end of the testis is a small body (c) two or three lines in length (corpus Morgagni), which is the remains of the Body of upjier end of the foetal duct of Midler ; and occasionally other smaller ^o^'gagm.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 624 Suspended obliquely. Dimensions, and weiftlit. Fibrous coat: characters; use; seuds inwards processes, as the me- diastinum projections of the tunica vaginalis are connected witL. tlie top of the epididymis. The testis is suspended ohliquely, so that the upper part is directed forwards and somewhat outwards, and the Fig. 174.* lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size and weight. The length of the testis is an inch and a half or two inches ; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side rather less than an inch. Its weight is nearly an ounce, and the left is fre- quently larger than the other. Structure. The substance of the tes- ticle is composed of minute secerning tubes, around which the blood-vessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and supporting the delicate seminiferal tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efferent duct is named vas deferens. Dissection. With the view of examining the investing fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz., that on which the epididymis lies, and let it be fixed firmly in that position with pins. The fibrous coat is to be cut through along the anterior part, and thrown back- wards as far as the entrance of the blood-vessels. While raising this mem- brane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the tes- ticle, and a short septal piece (medias- tinum) may be perceived at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter; but it will be expedient to remove part of the mass of tubes in the interior, to bring more fully into view the medi- astinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albuginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. This membrane protects the secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and un- yielding structure : it also sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal tubes. These ofi"sets of the membrane appear in the dissection ; and one of them at the back of the testicle, which is larger than the rest, is the mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (corpus Higbmorianum; fig. 175, r) pro- jects into the gland for a third of an inch with the blood-vessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper * The testis, with the tunica vaginalis laid open. a. Testicle, h. Head of the epididymis, c. Corpus Morgagni. d. Parietal part of the tunica vaginalis. e. Vessels of the spermatic cord. /. Vas deferens.SEMINAL TUBES OF TESTICLE. 525 nearly to the lower end, and is rather larger and deeper above than below. It is formed of two pieces, which are united in front at an acnte angle. To its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are contained the blood-vessels behind, and a network of seminal ducts (rete testis) in front. Of the finer processes of the tunica albuginea (fig. 175, h) which and enter the testis, there are two kinds. One set, round and cord-like, ^^^"^ ^^^^^^' but of different lengths, is attached posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serves to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set forms delicate membranous septa, which divide the mass of seminal tubes into lobes, and join the mediastinum, like the rest. Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, the tunica a vascular msculosa, which lines the fibrous coat, and covers the different septa !f^f^' ^P®^ . . . . . . (tunica in the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications of vasculosa). the blood-vessels, united by areolar tissue, like the j)ia mater of the brain : in it the arteries are subdivided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the small veins are collected into larger trunks. The seminal tubes (tubuli seniiniferi) are very convoluted, and Secerning are but slightly held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding ^ ' blood-vessels, so that they may be readily drawn out of the testis and^^^*^"^^ for some distance: their length is about two feet and a quarter length; (Lauth). Within the lobes of the testis some tubes end in distinct communi- closed extremities ; but the rest communicate, forming loops or ^'^^^""^ > arches. Their diameter varies from y^th to y^^^h of an inch, and size. The wall of the tube is formed of a thin translucent membrane, but it has considerable strength. Names from the arrangement of the tubes. To different parts of the Tubes seminal tubes, the following names have been applied. Where the naniS^ tubules are collected into masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Communicating in the mediastinum," they produce the-rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper end of the gland they are convoluted, and are called vasa efi'erentia, or coni vasculosi. The lobes of the testis (fig. 175, a) are formed by bundles of the They form seminiferous tubes, and are situate in the intervals between the ^^^^^' processes of the tunica albuginea. From 100 to 200 in number "^"^^^i" 5 (Krause), they are conical in form, with the base of each at the^^^-®' circumference, and the apex at the mediastinum testis ; and those in the centre of the testicle are the largest. Each is made up of two or more tortuous seminal tubules ; and tubes in the minute tubes in one lobe are united with those in the neighbour- arrange- ing lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are united together; and the tubuli of the several lobes are farther joined at the same spot into the tubuli recti. Tubuli recti (^cr, 175, c). The seminal tubes uniting together Tubes next become narrower and straighter in direction, and are named tubuli straight recti or vasa recta : they pierce the fibrous mediastinum and enter f^^^^ the rete testis.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 526 afterwards join toge- ther (rete testis), and leave the gland as vasa efferontia. Rete testis (fig. 175, e). In the mediastinum the seminal tubes have no proper walls (beyond epithelium), and are situate in the anterior part, in front of the blood-vessels ; they communicate freely so as to form a network. Excretory du(;t in two parts. Epididymis cfnisisting of head, tail, and body; how fixed; foi-med of a coiled tube ; length and siice. Vasa efferentia (fig. 175,/). Fig. 175.* From twelve to twenty tubes leave the top of the rete, and issue from the upper end of the testicle as the vasa efferentia : these are larger than the tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the canal of the epididymis (part of the common excretory duct). Though straight at first, they soon become con- voluted, and form the coni vasculosi. In the natural state the coni are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled the tubes measure six inches ; and they join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. The EXCRETORY DUCT receives the vasa efferentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms tlie epididymis ; but the remainder is comparatively straight, and is named vas deferens. The EPIDIDYMIS (fig. 175, h) extends in the form of an arch along the outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major (g) ; and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like—globus minor (i), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epididymis is called the body (li). It is attached to the testis, most cLjsely at the ends, by fibrous tissue and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis, the globus major also by the vasa efferentia. The epididymis is formed of q, single tube, bent in a zigzag way, the coils of which are united into a solid mass by fibrous tissue. After the removal of the serous membrane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it then measures twenty feet or more in length. The diameter of its canal is about ^V^h of an inch, though there is a slight diminution in size towards the ■* Vertical and horizontal sections of the testis, to show the arrangement of the septa and seminal tubes, a. Lobes of the testis, b. Septa between the lobes, c. Tubuli recti, d. Mediastinum testis, e. Eete testis. /. Vasa efferentia. ff. Globus major, h. Body, and i, globus minor of the epididy- mis, k. Vas deferens. I. Vas aberrans. n. Rete testis, in section, o. Finer septa, p. Epididymis, cut across, r. Mediastinum, cut across.527 VAS DEFEEENS. globus minor; but it increases again as it approaches the vas deferens. The VAS DEFERENS (fig. 175, Ji) begins opposite the lower end of Vas the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis. ^ ^^^"'^' At first the duct is slightly wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm, round, and direct tube ; near its termination it is enlarged again and sacculated, but this condition will be referred to M'ith the viscera of the j^elvis. In its course to the urethra it ascends over the hinder part of the course to testicle, on the inner side of the epididymis, and then along the ' blood-vessels of the spermatic cord, with which it enters the internal abdominal ring; here it bends downwards round the epigastric artery (p. 458), and is then continued over the bladder (p. 556), and through the prostate to open into the urethra. The length of length and this part of the excretory duct is about two feet, and the width of its canal about -^\jth. of an inch. Opening into the vas deferens, at the angle of imion with the Vasaben-ans epididymis, there is frecjuently a small, narrow, ccecal appendage, the present ■vas aberrans of Haller (fig. 175, I). It is convoluted, and projects situation, upwards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled. Its capacity and size, is greatest at the free end. Structure. The vas deferens has a thick muscular coat, which is Tiiree coats covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined internally by mucous }^]^ membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord, fibrous, On a section its Avali is dense and of a rather yellow colour. The muscular coat is comj)osed of longitudinal and circular fibres a muscular, arranged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous msmbrane is marked by longitudinal folds in the and a straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated portion. Organ of Giraldes. In the spermatic cord of the fo-tus and child, some- Organ of times in the adult, a small whitish, granular-looking body may be recognised, Giraldes: Avhich is named the organ, of Giraldes, or the 'paradidymis. It consists of remains of several small masses of convoluted tubules, which apj)ear to be remnants of Wolffian the lower part of the Wolffian body. Blood-vessels and nerves of the testicle. The branches of Spermatic the spermatic artery supply ofi"sets to the epididymis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea, before being distributed to the lobes of the testis. The spermatic vein results from the union of branches issuing Spermatic from the back of the testicle and the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its branches form the spermatic or pampiniform plexus. It joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 537). The lymphatics of the testicle ascend on the blood-vessels, and Lymphatics join the lumbar glands.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 528 and nerves. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the artery to the testis. Vessels of Vessels of the vas deferens. A special artery is furnished to the the duct. excretory duct from the upper or lower vesical, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. Vein^ from the epididymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. Section Y. DIAPHEAGM WITH AORTA AND YENA CAVA. Dissect vessels and nuiscles. To see the diaphragm. Define arches. Diaphragm situation and form : origin at the circum- ference ; insertion of libres into a central tendon. Parts in contact with the under surface, and with the upper, Directions. After the body is replaced in its former position on the back, the student should prepare first the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be necessary to remove the peritoneum, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the strong processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebrse. While cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on the surface, and of others in and near the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches near the spine, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected ; one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle (quadratus), and will be made more evident by separating it from the fascia covering the quadratus. The DIAPHRAGM or midriff (fig. 176, a) forms the vaulted moveable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and tendinous in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is alike on both sides. Thus, it arises by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the ensiform process and the six lower rib cartilages ; from two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the spinal column,— one being placed over the quadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle ; and, lastly, from the lumbar vertebrse by a thick muscular piece or pillar. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon ; but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted (p. 530). The abdominal surface is concave, and is covered for the most part by the peritoneum. In contact with it on the right side are the liver and the kidney ; and on the 02:)posite side, the stomach, the spleen, and the left kidney : in contact also Avith the pillars are the pancreas and the solar plexus with the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura of each side and the peri-529 THE DIAPHEAGM. cardiiim (p. 377). At the circumference of the midriff the fleshy Attaciunent processes of origin alternate with like parts of the transversalis " °^ muscle ; but a slight interval separates the slips from the ensiform theTnuscie. process and seventh cartilage, and a second space exists sometimes between the fibres from the last rib and the arch over the quadratus lumborum muscle. In it are certain apertures for the transmission Apertures. of things from the thorax to the abdomen. The muscle is convex towards the chest, and concave to the Vault: abdomen. Its vault reaches higher on the right than the left side, and is constantly varying during life in respiration. In the condition of rest, as met with after death (state of expiration), extent up- wards after death. Fig. 176.* \ the central portion is about opposite the xiphi-sternal articulation ; on the right side it rises to the level of the fifth, and on the left side to the sixth chondro-sternal articulation. Special parts of the diaphragm. The following named parts are Special now to be noticed more fully, viz., the central tendon, the pillars, exaiuiued.^ the arches, and the apertures. The central tendon (cordiform tendon) occupies the middle of the ^g'^jj^^j^^^j^j^ diaphragm (fig. 176), and is surrounded by muscular fibres: the large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in difterent directions. In form it is com- pared to a trefoil leaf; of its three lobes or segments the right (c) J^^e a trefoil is the largest, and the left (a) the smallest. * Under surface of the diaphragm. A. Diaphragm, b. Psoas magnus. c. Quadratus lumborum. a. Left piece of the tendon of the diaphragm; b, middle, and c, right piece, d. Left, and e, right crus. /. Inner, and g, outer arched ligament, h. Opening for vena cava, *, for oesophagus, Jc, for aorta, j, for splanchnic nerves.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 530 Two pillar with arch over aorta ; ai'raiige- ment of libres in each as they ascend to tendon; differences in the pillars. Two arched ligaments, internal and external. Ai»ertures are:— For the aorta; its contents For gullet and nerves. For the vena cava. Fissures in the pillars. Tlie pillars (crura) are two large muscular and tendinous pro- cesses {d and e), one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are narrow and tendinous below, where they are attached to the npper lumbar vertebrae, but large and fleshy above ; and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres pass upwards and forwards, diverg- ing from each other ; the greater number join the central tendon without intermixing, but the inner fibres of the two crura cross one another in the following manner :—Those of the right (e) ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line, decussating with the fibres of the opposite crus between that vessel and the opening of the cesophagus. The fibres of the other crus (d) may be traced in the same way, to form the right half of the oeso- phageal opening. In the decussation the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is generally larger than, and in front of, that from the left. The pillars ditt'er somewhat on opposite sides. The right (e) is the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebrae, and their intervertebral substances, reaching to the disc between the third and fourth verte- brae. The left pillar (f?) is situate more on the side of the spine, is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra : it is occasionally wanting. The arches (ligamenta arcuata) are two fibrous bands on each side over the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, which give origin to fleshy fibres. The arch over the psoas (lig. arcuat. internum ; /) is the stronger, and is connected by the one end to the tendinous part of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other to the transverse process of the first or second lumbar vertebra. The arch over the quadratus lumborum (lig. arcuat. externum ; g) is only a thickened piece of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends from the same transverse process to the last rib. Apertures. There are three large openings for the aorta, the vena cava, and the oesophagus ; with some smaller fissures for nerves and vessels. The opening for the aorta (li) is rather behind than in the dia- phragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle and the spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. The opening for the oesophagus and the pneumo-gastric nerves [i) is above and slightly to the left of the aortic aperture : it is placed in the muscular part of the diaphragm, and is bounded by the fibres of the pillars as above explained. The opening for the vena cava (foramen quadratum ; li) is situate between the middle and right divisions of the central tendon; and its margins are attached to the vein by tendinous fibres. There is a fissure (j) in each pillar for the three splanchnic nerves ; and through that in the left crus the small azygos vein also passes.531 ACTION OF THE DIAPHRAGM. Action of the diafphragm. By the contraction of tlie muscular Use iu fibres the tendon is moved downwards, and the arch of the diaphragm r<^sri^^*io"- is lessened in inspiration ; and during their relaxation, the centre of the muscle is elevated, and the height of the vault increased in expiration, owing to the elasticity of the lungs, and the pressure of the viscera below, which are forced upwards by the action of the abdominal muscles (p. 448). In the descent of the diaphragm, the parts of the tendon move Central part unequally, in consequence of difierences in their relations, and in "east f the length of the fleshy fibres connected with them. Thus, the central lobe, above which the heart is placed, moves least; while the lateral lobes, which are below the lungs, descend more freely, left part the right, however, less than the left, owing to the presence of the ^XJJJage liver. It is estimated that the central lobe of the tendon moves V!^ downwards in full inspiration about two-fifths of an inch, the right tion"^^^"'^ lobe twice as much, and the left lobe one inch (Hasse). In forced ^^^^^^ expiration the muscle reaches as high as the fourth rib on the right expiration, side, and the fifth on the left, close to the sternum. With the movement of the diaphragm the size of the cavities of ^^^^^^^^^^JJi^^ tlie abdomen and thorax will be altered. By its descent the thorax abdomen, is enlarged, and the abdomen diminished ; and the viscera in the on viscera, upper part of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach, and spleen, are partly moved from beneath the ribs. By its ascent the cavity of the thorax is lessened, and that of the abdomen is restored to its former size ; and the displaced viscera return to their usual place. By the contraction of the fibres the aperture for the oesophagus will Upe^.^irgy be rendered smaller, and that tube may be compressed ; but the other openings for the vena cava and aorta are not materially changed. The action of the diaphragm is commonly involuntary, but it is ^^^^^^^^^^ perfectly under the control of the will. Dissection. After the diaphragm has been learnt, the ribs that Jj:jJ^^^'^?^^2rt support it on each side may be cut through, and the loose pieces of of the bone with the fore part of the diaphragm may be taken away, to t^'aphragm. facilitate the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. But the posterior third of the diaphragm, with its pillars and arches, should be left ; and the vessels ramifying on it should be followed back to their origin. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the vena clean aorta, 11 11 • ^ o • r xi cava, and cava, are to be cleaned by removing the lat, the remains oi the branches; sympathetic plexuses, and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and suprarenal body, and to the testicle. In like manner the large iliac branches ^y^gge|,f ' of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. The ureter and the spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery ; and on the same vessel, near the thigh, branches of a small nerve (genito-crural) are to be sought. The muscles are to be laid bare on the right side, but on the left Dissect • ipiisclcs * side the fascia covering them is to be shown ; and the fat is to be ' cleared away from the kidney. M M 2DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 532 "''^ Deep view of the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the abdominal cavity (Illusti-ations of Dissections). Muscles and viscera : a. Diaphragm, with b, internal, and c, external arched ligament. D. End of the oesophagus, cut. E. Small psoas. p. Large psoas, a. Quadratus lumborum. h. Iliacus. 1. Kidney. j. Eectum. k. Bladder. Vessels: a. Diaphragmatic artery. h. Aorta, c. Renal, cl. Spermatic, e. Upper mesenteric, cut. /. Lower mesenteric, g. Common iliac, and Ji- external iliac artery. Ic. Epigastric artery, cut; by its side is the vas deferens, bending into the pelvis. I. Cir- cumflex iliac. m. Vena cava. n. Renal vein. o. Right spermatic vein. p. Common iliac vein, and r, external iliac (this letter is put on the left artery instead of the vein just below it), s. Ureter, Nerves : 1. Phrenic. 2. Ilio-hypogastric. 3. Uio-inguinal. 4. External cutaneous of the thigh. 5 and 6. Genito-crural. 7. Anterior crural.533 ABDOMINAL AOETA AND BEANCHES. and in the fat external to it, the following branches of the lumbar plexus will be found :—The genito-crural nerve lies on the front. Four nerves issue at the outer border,—the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower part. Along the inner border of the psoas the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands ; and lower down the obturator nerve may be recognised entering the cavity of the pelvis. External to the psoas is the quadratus lumborum, and quadratus crossing the latter near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, with an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the iliacus muscle, which and iliacua. unites below with the large psoas. The ABDOMINAL AORTA (fig. 177, 5) extends from the lower part Extent of of the last dorsal vertebra to about the middle of the body of the aoita"""'^ fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm ; and its termination is placed opposite a spot below and slightly to the left of the umbilicus, and nearly on a level with the highest point of the iliac crest. The chief relations of the vessel to surrounding parts have been Relations before referred to (p. 490), but some deep vessels in connection with it now come into view. As the aorta rests on the spine it lies on the left lumbar veins, which end in the inferior cava. And with deep between it and the riglit crus of the diaphragm are the large azygos '^''^^'^^^s. vein and the thoracic duct. Along the sides of the vessel are the lumbar lymphatic glands, from which large vessels run beneath it to end in the beginning of the thoracic duct. The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following Place of order:—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which bi'mehes-^*^ leave the front of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm, the single trunk of the coeliac axis arises from the front ; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the front, the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery begins. Half an inch lower, the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the lateral part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the small capsu- lar branch ; and below the renal is the slender spermatic artery. From the front of the arterial trunk, one or two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery. And from the back of the vessel arise five lumbar arteries on each side, and the middle sacral close above the bifurcation. The branches may be classified in two sets,—one to the viscera their classi- of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdominal wall (parietal). The visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and inferior mesen- Some teric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. Of these, the first three have bran^ches. already been examined. The renal arteries (fig. 177, c) leave the aorta nearly at a right Renal angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney '^^^^^^ each divides into four or five branches, which enter the hilum ofDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. the organ between tlie vein and tlie nreter. Each artery lies beneath its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of nerves^ and supplies small twigs to the suprarenal body {inferior capsular) y to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidney. The arteries of opposite sides have some differences. The left is the shorter, owing to the ]30sition of the aorta : the right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. The middle capsular or suprarenal artery is a small branch which runs almost transversely outwards to the suprarenal body : this offset anastomoses with the other branches to the su^Drarenal body from the renal and diaphragmatic arteries. It is of large size in the foetus. The spermatic artery of the testicle (fig. 177^ d) is remarkable for its small size in proportion to its length ; for leaving the cavity of the abdomen ; and for having the part in the abdomen straight, iDut that in the cord tortuous. From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord (p. 458). In its course beneath the peritoneum the vessel runs along the front of the psoas, crossing over the ureter ; and on the right side it j)asses over the vena cava. It is accompanied by the spermatic vein, and J;he sper- matic plexus of nerves. In the foetus before the testicle leaves the abdomen the spermatic artery is very short, but the vessel elongates as the testis is removed from its original position. In the female the corresponding artery (ovarian?) descends into the pelvis to end in the ovary and the uterus. The parietal branches of the aorta are the diaphragmatic, lumbar, and middle sacral. The diaphragmatic arteries (inferior phrenic; fig. 177, a) are frequently united together at their origin, or with the cceliac axis. They course upwards along the posterior j^art of the under surface of the diaphragm, the left artery passing behind the oesophageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each ends in two branches :—One (internal) passes onwards towards the front of the diajjhragm, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with the superior phrenic and musculo-phrenic branches of the internal mammary. The other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it communicates with the inter- costal arteries. Branches. Small offsets to the suprarenal body from the external division of this artery are named superior capsular. Some twigs are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. On the under surface of the diaphragm are two branches of the internal mammary artery (p. 264) ; one, superior pihrenic, accom- panies the j)hrenic nerve, and ramifies over the middle of the muscle ; the other, musculo-phrenic, appears opposite the ninth cartilage, and supj)lies the upper costal slips of the diaphragm. The other parietal branches, viz.^ lumbar and middle sacral, areCOMMON AND EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERIES. 535 net learnt in this stage : the former will be seen after the lumbar 23lexus (p. 543), and the latter in the pelvis (p. 567). The COMMON ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 177, g) is directed downwards Common and outwards from the bifurcation of the aorta, and divides into ^^^^^ artery: two large trunks opposite the fibro-cartilage between the last lumbar extent and vertebra and the sacrum ;—one of these (external iliac) supplies tlie ^^^^^a*'*^"' lower limb, and the other (internal iliac) enters the pelvis. Placed relations; obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes by the ureter. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does usually no not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio- lumbar, or a renal artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some differences. The riqht arterii has the vena cava to its outer side above, and Differences . between near its termination touches the psoas muscle. The companion vein right {p) is at first beneath, but becomes external to the artery at the upper part; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the superior hsemorrhoidal ^"^^gj^* vessels ; and its companion vein is situate to its inner side. It lies close to the psoas muscle throughout. The length of the common iliac artery ranges from less than half an inch to Variations four inches and a half ; but in the majority of instances it varies between one lengtli. inch and a half and three inches (R. Quain). The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 177, A) is the first part of the External vessel leading to the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity of lowerlunrb the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of the common extent and iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it becomes <iirection; femoral. And its direction would be indicated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to a point midway between the symj)hysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis in its course to relations Poupart's ligament, and is covered closely by the peritoneum and rroundl' ^ the subperitoneal fat. The right artery is crossed by the lower end of the ileum, and the left by the sigmoid flexure. To its outer side is the psoas, except at its termination under Poupart's ligament, where it lies over the muscle. A chain of lymphatic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. Close to its origin the artery is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; ^Jg^^gj^g^^^''^' and near Poupart's ligament the vas deferens bends clown along its inner side ; while the spermatic vessels, and the genital branch of '^^'itii nerve, the genito-crural nerve lie on it for a short distance. The external iliac vein (r) is behind the artery above, but and veins. , gradually comes forwards and gains its inner side over the pubis. The circumflex iliac vein crosses it nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament. Branches. Two considerable branches, epigastric and circumflex Two named iliac, arise about a quarter of an inch from the end of the artery, '■ and are distributed to the wall of the abdomen (p. 459).536 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. unnamed offsets. ■ Origin of branches varies : occasional branches. Veins of the abdomen, except vena portse. Anatomy of external iliac vein: position to artery; tributaries. Common iliac veins form cava: difference in length and; relations; tributaries. Vena cava inferior: extent; relations; receives branches from abdomen, except those of digestive apparatus. Some small unnamed twigs are given to the psoas muscle and the lymphatic glands. Peculiarities in hrancJies.—The epigastric and circumflex iliac branches may- wander over the lower inch and a half or two inches of the artery. The obturator artery is often derived from the external iliac, in which case it generally arises in common with the epigastric artery. In rare cases the internal circumflex artery of the thigh is given off from the epigastric or the lower part of the external iliac trunk. Iliac Veins and Vena Cava (fig. 177). The larger veins of the abdomen correspond so closely with the arteries, both in number, extent, and relations, as to render unnecessary much detail in their description. As the veins increase in size from the circumference towards the centre of the body, those most distant from the heart will be first referred to. The external iliac vein (r) is a continuation of the femoral vein beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the j)elvis (internal iliac), to form the common iliac vein. On the pubis it is internal to its companion artery, and lies between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; but as it ascends it gradually passes behind the artery. The veins opening into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliac (p. 460), and fubic branch from the obturator vein. The common iliac vein (j?) ascends by the side of its accompany- ing artery, the right almost vertically, and the left obliquely, to the front of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra (the right half), where it blends with its fellow in one trunk—the vena cava. The o^ight vein is the shorter, and lies at first behind, but after- wards outside the artery of the same name. The left is internal to and below the artery of its own side, and crosses beneath the right common iliac artery. Each vein receives the ilio-lumbar branch ; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. The INFERIOR or ascending- vena cava (m) collects and conveys to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra, lower than the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the arterial trunk, and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its relations to surrounding parts have been already noticed (p. 490), but the description may be again referred to, as the position of the branches of the aorta to it can be better seen now. Branches. The cava receives parietal branches (lumbar and dia- phragmatic) from the wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm ; and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the stomach, the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena port£e (p. 496) ; and the blood contained in those vessels reaches the cava by the hepatic veins, after it has circulated through the liver.BEANCHES OF INFEHIOR VENA CAVA. 537 The spermatic vein (o) enters the abdomen by the internal Spennatic abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 527). At first there are two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery ; but these soon join into one trunk. On the left side it opens into the renal vein at a ends differ- right angle, and there is generally a small valve over the aperture ; f^ft^amT on the right side it enters the inferior cava below the renal vein, right sides; As the vein ascends to its destination, it receives one or more branches from the wall of the al^domen, and the fat about the branches: kidney. In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as in the vein in the female male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. Valves are absent from the vein and its branches, but commonly there is one at its union with the renal. The renal ov emulgent vein (n) is of large size, and joins the vena Renal vein: cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the kidney; and the trunk resulting from their union is superficial to position to the renal artery. The right vein is the shorter, and usually joins the cava a little difference on lower than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery; it receives the left sper- matic and suprarenal veins. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is compared Suprarenal with the body from which it comes. The riglit opens into the cava, rentiy on' and the left into the renal vein, ^^c^ ^if^'^- The hepatic veins enter the vena cava where it is in contact with Hepatic the liver. They are described on p. 517. -^oticed.^ The lumbar veins correspond in number and course with the Lumbar arteries of the same name. They Avill be dissected later (p. 544). The diaphragmatic veins (inferior), two with each artery, spring Phrenic from tlie under surface of the diaphragm. Tliey join the cava either as one trunk or two. DEEP MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEN. The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumborum. The PSOAS MAC4NUS (fig. 177, p) reaches from the lumbar vertebrte Psoas to the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly in the situation; thigh. The muscle arises from the front of the transverse processes of "^j^il^/'""'^^^ the lumbar vertebrae, from the bodies and intervertebral discs of vertebr;?; the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrai by five fleshy pieces,— each piece being connected with the intervertebral substance and the borders of two contiguous vertebrae, and from tendinous bands over the blood-vessels opposite the middle of the vertebras. The fibres give rise to a roundish belly, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament, and ends below in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives also most of the fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the small insertion ^ 1 , P ^1 p into femur; trochanter oi the lemur.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 538 relations in front, behind, of outer border, of inner border: lumbar nerves in its substance ; use to bend hip-joint with iliacus, or to bend trunk on the li)nb. Psoas parvus; insertion ; Iliacus has the form of the iliac fossa; origin ; parts cover- ing it on two sides, beneath it; use to bend hip-joint. The abdominal part of the muscle has the following relations :— In front are the internal arch of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and near Poupart's ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery ; beneath these, the muscle is covered by the inner part of the iliac fascia. Behind, the muscle is in contact witli the transverse processes, with the quadratus lumborum, and with the hip-bone. The outer border touches the cjuadratus and iliacus ; and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to the vertebrae, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis;—along the attached part of this border lies the sympathetic nerve, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side ; along the free or pelvic part are the external iliac vessels. The nerves of the lumbar plexus lie between the slips of origin from the transverse processes. Action. If the femur is free to move it is raised towards the belly ; and in flexing the hip-joint the psoas is always combined with the iliacus. When the lower limbs are fixed the two muscles wnll draw forwards the lumbar part of the spine, and bend the hip-joints, as in stooping to the ground. One muscle under the same circumstances can incline the spine laterally. The PSOAS PARVUS (fig. 177, e) is a small inconstant muscle, with a long tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, with the intervening fibro-cartilage. Its tendon becomes broader below, and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence and the brim of the pelvis, joining the iliac fascia. Action. This muscle aids in flexing the lumbar portion of the spine, either drawing forwards the u^jper part of the trunk, or rais- ing the front of the pelvis, according to which end is fixed. The ILIACUS MUSCLE (fig. 177, h) occupies the iliac fossa on the inner aspect of the hip-bone, and is blended inferiorly with the psoas. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy origin from the iliac fossa, and slightly from the ala of the sacrum and the anterior sacro-iliac ligament. The fibres pass obliquely inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the femur ; and a few have a separate attachment to the femur below the small trochanter. Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia ; and over the right iliacus are placed the csecum and ascending colon, over the left, the sigmoid flexure : beneath it is the hip-bone. The inner margin is overlapped by the psoas ; and the anterior crural nerve lies between the two. The relations of the imited psoas and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the dis- section of the thigh (p. 635). Action. The iliacus raises the femur with the psoas when the limb is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the limb is fixed.QUADEATUS LUMBORUM MUSCLE. 539 The psoas and iliacus may be regarded as two heads of one muscle—the ilio-psoas. The QUADRATUS LUMBORUM (fig. 177, G) is a short, flattened Quadratus muscle between the pelvis and the last rib. About two inches wide origin below, it arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the iliac crest behind, and an inch outside that band ; it generally receives in addition two or three slips from the transverse processes of the upper lumbar vertebrae. The fibres ascend to be inserted by insertion; distinct fleshy and tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, and into the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia is contained lumborum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, ^ '^-^ '» together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Behind the (|uadratus is the erector spinse muscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the spine (one muscle use of both antagonising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterally the lumbar region of tlie spine of one. to the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the ciuadra tus. Covering the surface of the tjuadratus is Fascia of the a thin membrane, which is derived from the hinder aponeurosis of ^^^^' the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum ; p. 392) ; it passes in front of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. A thickened band of this fascia forms the external arched ligament, to Avluch the diaphragm is connected (p. 530). Fascia of the iliacus and i^soas. A fascia covers the double flexor Iliac fascia of the hip-joint, and is fixed to the bone on each side of the muscle, mo-psoas; The membrane is strongest opposite the pelvis, where it is attached attachments to the iliac crest on the outer side, and to the brim of the cavity on the inner side : it receives a strong accession from the tendon of the psoas parvus when that muscle is present. Over the upper part of and above, the psoas it becomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebrae ; while on the other it is blended with the fascia over the quadratus ; and above, it joins the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been before explained (p. 469). Dissection. The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands j'^^j^l^^j^g^-"^.^ lying along the vertebrae, and to trace upwards some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides : a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (receptaculum chyli), and the lower end of and the the large azygos vein may be well seen : and the two are to be [.u^um^'and foUow^ed upwards into the thorax. On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic nerves and splanchnicDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 540 the small azygos vein through the pillar of the diaphragm, and may show the knotted cord of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lumbar LYMPHATIC GLANDS. A chain of glands is placed along the side glands: of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the lumbar vertebrae ; they are coiniected by short tubes, which increase one ta-u"ik ^^^^ ^^^^ diminish in number, and opposite the first lumbar vertebra form one principal trunk which enters the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of some of the viscera and of the wall of the abdomen are received. Ccehac Another cluster of large glands surrounds the coeliac axis, and glands: o o 7 covers the upper end of the abdominal aorta. They are distinguished as the coeliac glands, and receive the lymphatics of the stomach, ducts join spleen, pancreas and great part of the liver. Their ducts unite intestine™ witli those of the mesenteric glands, and give rise to one or more large trunks, which pass to the common thoracic duct. th?thoraci? Rlceptaculum chyli. The thoracic duct begins in the abdo- duct. men by the union of three or four large lymphatic trunks. Its commencement is marked by a dilatation, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. The duct enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm w-ith the aorta. Section VI. SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. Dissection of the lum- bar plexus on left side, The spinal nerves of the loins enter into a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous portions of the trunk. Dissection (fig. 178). The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to be learnt on the left side, although the woodcut shows them on the right side ; and to bring them into view, the dissector should cut through the external iliac vessel, and afterwards scrape away the psoas. For the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely ; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. On, or in the substance of, the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerve. The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the psoas, and offsets of it join the spinal nerves ; these are to be followed back along the lumbar arteries. On the right side the psoas is to be left untouched, in order that the place of emergence from it of the different offsets of the ^dIcxus may be noticed. Four lumbar LuMBAR SpiNAL Nerves. The anterior primary branches of the plexus^^^^^ lumbar nerves, five in number, increase in size from above down, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the interverte- bral foramina. With the exception of the last, they enter the with sym pathetic.541 LUMBAR PLEXUS. 178.= lumbar plexus, having previously given off branches for the supply of the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles. The fifth nerve (fig. 184) receives a communicating branch from the fourth, and is to be followed into the pelvis to its junction with the sacral j)lexus. After the two are united, the name lumbo- sacral cord is applied to the common trunk. The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 178) is formed by the intercommunication of the first four lumbar nerves. Contained in the substance of the psoas, near the posterior surface it consists of loops between the several nerves, and increases in size from above down- wards, like the indivi- dual nerves. Superiorly it is sometimes united by a small branch with the last dorsal nerve ; and inferiorly it joins the sacral plexus through the large lumbo-sacral cord. The branches of the plexus are six in number, and supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the muscular covering of the spermatic cord, the fore and inner parts of the thigh, and the inner side of the leg. ' The first two branches ^ "~ (ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal) end as cutaneous nerves of the hip, the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, and the thigh. a. The ilio-hyjjogastric branch (fig. 178,/) is derived from the first nerve, and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the upper end. It is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen hy piercing the and supply muscles : fifth to the sacral plexus. Plexus how formed : connections with nerves. Six branches, viz.:— Two cutaneous branches. Ilio-hypo- gastric : course in abdomen. * Dissection of the Iiimbar plexus and its branches. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) a. External iliac artery, cut across. 6. Thoracic duct. c. Azygos veins. Nerves: The figures 1 to 5 mark the trunks of the five lumbar nerves. d. Splanchnic nerves, e. Last dorsal. /. Ilio-hypogastric. ff. Ilio-inguinal. h. Grenito-crural. i. External cutaneous, k. Anterior crui-al. /. Accessory to obturator. 7i. Obturator, o. GangHated cord of the sympathetic.642 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Ilio-inguinal arises with preceding, and accom- panies it. Genito- crural pierces psoas, and divides into genital and crural branch. Course of external cutaneous to the thij-h. Origin of anterior crural: position in the abdomen; its branches to iliacus, to femoral artery. Obturator in the abdomen; ends in the thigh; occasionally an accessory branch. transversalis iimscle. Its termination in tlie integnnients of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hypogastric branch has been already mentioned (p. 456). h. The ilio-inguinal branch (g) arises M'itli the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses out- wards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the iliac crest, where it pierces the transversalis. The farther course of the nerve in the abdominal wall, and its distribution to the scrotum and the thigh, are before noticed (p. 456). c. The genito-crural nerve (h) is distributed to the cremaster muscle and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop between the first two ; issuing from the front of the psoas, it descends on the surface of the muscle, and divides into the two following pieces. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and the pieces perforate the muscle separately. The genital branch descends on the external iliac artery, and furnishes offsets ar(^und it: it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round liganient. The crural branch issues beneath Poupart's ligament to supply the integument of the thigh (p. 609). cl. The exterrial cutaneous nerve of the thigh (i) arises from the loop between the second and third nerves, and appears about the luiddle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then crosses the iliacus to the interval between the anterior iliac spinous pro- cesses, and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, to be distributed on the outer aspect of the limb (p. 609). e. The anterior crural nerve (h) is the largest ofl'set of the plexus, and supplies branches mainly to the extensor muscles of the knee- joint, and to the integuments of the front of the thigh and inner side of the leg. Taking origin from the second, third and fourth nerves, this large trunk appears towards the lower part of the psoas, where it lies between that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen beneath Poupart's liganient; but before the final branching in the thigh (p. 627), the nerve sends oft' the following twigs :— Some small branches to the iliacus are furnished from the outer side of the nerve. A branch to the femoral artery^ the place of origin of which varies much, is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. /. The obturator nerve {n) is distributed chiefly to the adductor muscles of the thigh (p. 631). Arising in front of the anterior crural from the second, third, and fourth nerves in the |)l^xus (sometimes not from the second), it makes its appearance at the inner border of the psoas near the sacro-iliac articulation. Escaped from beneath the muscle, the nerve crosses the side of the pelvis below the external iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters the thigh through the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen. Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch :— The accessory obturator nerve (l) arises from the trunk of the543 SYMPATHETIC CORD. obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its course is along the inner border of the psoas, beneath the investing fascia, and over the hip-bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip-joint (p. 631). GaNGLIATED cord of the sympathetic (fig. 178, o). The sympathetic lumbar part of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is continuous abdoii^eu^*^ vi^ith the thoracic part beneath the internal arched ligament of the ^^y^^^ ^j^^^ diaphragm. It lies on the front of the spinal column, along the in thorax; inner border of the psoas muscle, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena cava, on the left by the aorta. The cord has has four or four or five oval ganglia, which supply connecting and visceral ^'^^ ganglia; branches. Connecting branches. From each ganglion two small branches are branches to directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, iiei-ves"^^ with the lumbar artery ; these unite with one or two spinal nerves near the intervertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long in the lumbar region, in consequence of the gangliated cord being carried forwards by the psoas muscle. Branches of Distribution. Most of the internal branches throw and to the • • viSCGl'tl themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebrae and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 178, e). The anterior primary branch of the last dorsal resembles the intercostal nerves in its distribution, but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the course to upper part of the quadratus lumborum, but beneath the external aMomenT arched ligament and the fascia of the quadratus. At the outer border of that muscle it perforates the middle layer of the fascia lumborum, and enters the wall of the abdomen, where it ends in an abdominal and a lateral cutaneous branch (p. 456). The first lumbar artery accompanies it. Near the spine it furnishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle ; branch to and it may -communicate by means of this with the first lumbar nerve. The LUMBAR ARTERIES of the aorta (p. 533) are furnished to the Lumbar RrtcriGS five back, the spinal canal, and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble in number the aortic intercostals in their course and distribution. Commonly ^JJg^^^^ five in number on each side, they arise from the back of the aorta, and the vessels of opposite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk. They then pass backwards over the hollowed surface of the course; bodies of the last dorsal and upper four lumbar vertebrce, and beneath the pillar of the diaphragm and the psoas, to reach the nation In^" interval between the transverse processes, where each ends in an abdominal and a dorsal branch. The arteries of the right side lie beneath the vena cava. The posterior or dorsal branches continue to the back between the '^j^^^'^^^j! transverse processes, and supply offsets to the spinal canal (pp. 404, 421). The anterior or abdominal branches are directed outwards, and enter ^^^^ ^ ' branch toDISSECTION OF THE ABDOxMEN. 544 the wall of the aMoineii. The veins resemble the arteries, and open into the cava; left longer. A plexus around the transverse l^rocesses. Orif^in of azygos entrance into thorax. the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they are distributed (p. 459). The first lies with the last dorsal nerve across the front of the qnadratns lumbornm, but the others usually pass behind that muscle. Offsets are furnished to the psoas and quadratus muscles, and to the subperitoneal fat; the last anastomose witli branches of the renal, capsular, spermatic, right and left colic, and some other visceral arteries. The LUMBAR VEINS are the same in number, and have the same course as the arteries. Commencing by the union of a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the transverse process, each trunk is directed forwards to the vena cava. They o]3en into the back of the cava, either singly, or conjointly with those of the opposite side. On the left side the veins are longer than on the right, and j)ass beneath the aorta. Around the transverse processes, and beneath the ]3soas muscles, the lumbar veins communicate freely with one another, with the ilio-lumbar, and with the common iliac, so as to form a plexus of veins. Issuing above from the plexus is a branch, the ascending lumhar vein, which joins the azygos vein of the corresponding side of the body. Beginning of the azygos veins each side above the first lumbar vertebra by the above-mentioned ascending lumbar vein ; and it is often joined by a branch of com- munication with the inferior cava or the renal vein. The right vein enters the thorax usually with the tlioracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies. The left vein passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or sometimes through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given at p. 371. The azygos vein begins onCAVITY OF THE PELVLS. The cavity of the pelvis is the part of the generul abdominal JJ^^^^^jJj^'J^" space situate below the brim of the true pelvis (p. 472). tion.' Boundaries. The space is surrounded by the firm ring of the Boundaries; pehdc bones : it is bounded behind by the sacrum and coccyx, with behind and the pyriformes muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; and laterally ^ ' and in front, by the hip-bones covered by the internal obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perineum, the cavity is limited by the below, fascia passing from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles : it is only in this direction, where the bounding structures are to some extent moveable, that the size of the space can be appreciably altered. Contents. In the pelvis are contained the urinary Ijladder with the Contents, beginning of the urethra, the lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organs, according to the sex. The Adscera are supplied with vessels, nerves, and lymphatics ; and tlie serous membrane is reflected over them. Section I. TELYIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. Lining the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which {jj^g^fjjg^ja^^ covers the obturator internus and pyriformis muscles, and sends a the pelvis. ])rocess inwards to support the viscera. Dissection. To bring into view the pelvic fascia, the external iliac steps to vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissec- peivic tion of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side ^^^^'^ '■ of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through in the on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the P^^'^'*^' wall of the pelvis, the fascia will be seen on scraping away with the handle of the scalpel a quantity of fat. By this proceeding the membrane is dissected in its upper half, or as low as the situation of the portion (recto-vesical) which is directed inwards to the viscera. To display the lower half, the student must raise the outlet of theDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 546 and the pelvis ; and, should the perineum be undissected, the fat must he peimeum. ^-^j^^j^ from the ischio-rectal fossa. The lower part of the pelvic fascia will now appear on the outer side of that fossa, as it covers the obturator muscle, from outer To see the outer surface of the fascia (fig. 1V9), the obturator externus muscle and the obturator membrane should be removed, Fig. 179.-=^ with the exception of a small portion of the latter at the upper end of the thyroid foramen, where it bounds the aperture through which the vessels and nerve issue. A portion of the bone is then to be cut out behind the foramen, and extending into the small sciatic * Dissection of the pelvic fascia (drawn by C, F. Beadles), ac. Acetabulum. 0 c. Aperture of canal for obturator vessels and nerves, bovmded below by o m, the upper end of the obturator membrane, the greater part of which has been taken away. Below these, the fascia of the obturator internus is exposed by the removal of a portion of the bone and the muscle. Line along which the recto-vesical fascia is given off from the inner side of the obturator fascia. I a. Tendinous fibres of origin of the levator ani, showing through the obturator fascia, f P?/- Fascia of the pyriformis. .v g n. Superior gluteal nerve, g a. Grluteal artery. Pyriformis muscle, g s n. Great sciatic nerve, s a. Sciatic artery, p v n. Pudic vessels and nerve, entering the sheath in the obturator fascia, g s si. Great sacro-sciatic liga- ment.547 THE PELVIC FASCIA. notch, as in the figure ; and the obturator internus muscle is to be carefully separated from the fascia and taken away. Lastly, by turning back the pyriformis muscle and the great ^j'^jjjj^^^jjjjg sciatic nerve, a thin piece of the fascia covering those structures will be exposed in the great sacro-sciatic foramen {fi^y). The PELVIC FASCIA is a thin membrane which covers the deep ^f^j^jg^^j^^if surface of the muscles bounding the cavity, and may be described three parts, in three parts. Two of these line the wall of the pelvis,—one^''^"~ covering the obturator internus muscle is named the obturator fascia, and the other extending over the pyriformis muscle is the fascia of the pyriformis ; while the third enters into the formation of the floor of the cavity, and supports tlie rectum and bladder, whence it is known as the recto-vesical fascia. The obturator fascia (fig. 179) invests closely the pelvic portion obturator of the obturator internus muscle, and is fixed to the bone around ^^"^^'^ •' the attachment of the fleshy fibres. Thus, it is attached above to attach- the ilio-pectineal line of the hip-bone between the sacro-iliac articu- = iation and the upper end of the thyroid foramen ; at the latter spot it joins the obturator membrane over the edge of the muscle, so as to form the floor of the canal transmitting the obturator vessels and nerve ; and in front it is fixed to the body of the pubis, following the border of the muscle. Below, it is inserted into the inner side of the inferior ramus of the pubis, and the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium in conjunction with the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Behind, the membrane is fixed to the hip- bone along the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch ; and between tlie ischial spine and tuberosity, it is 'united with the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where the obturator internus issues from the pelvis. From the inner surface of this membrane the recto-vesical fascia relations, is given off", along a curved line extending from the ischial spine to the upper and inner part of tlie thyroid foramen (fig. 179, * *). Above this line the obturator fascia bounds the cavity of the pelvis, and is in contact with the peritoneum; while below, it looks into the ischio-rectal fossa, except over a small space in front, where it is closely united with the pubic origin of the levator ani {I a). The fascia of the pjriformis (fpy) is very thin, and is continued Fascia of backwards from the hinder part of the obturator fascia to the sacrum, P^"^''""^^- passing over the front of the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, but beneath the internal iliac vessels, by the gluteal, sciatic and pudic branches of which it is perforated. The recto-vesical fascia may now l)e seen in part by looking into Recto- the pelvis ; and the student may notice a whitish line extending ^scia later from the lower part of the pubis, close to the symphysis, to the ischial spine. This line corresponds in its hinder part to the origin of the recto-vesical fascia from the obturator fascia; but in front, the levator ani extends upwards between the two. The disposition of this part of the fascia will be better seen after the hip-bone has been taken away. N X 2DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 548 To remoA f hip-bone : detach fascia, saw bone. and divide soft pai'ts. Then blow np bladder and distend other parts. Outlet of pelvis is closed by pyriformis, by coccy- geus and sacro-sciatic ligament, with vessels and nerves, by levator ani, and by triangular ligament. Coccygeus origin ; insertion ; relations of surfaces and borders Dissection. To obtain a side view of the pelvis (fig. 180), it will be necessary to remove the left hip-bone. The obturator fascia and great sacro-sciatic ligament are first to be detached, and then the bone is to be sawn through, in front about three-quarters of an inch outside the symphysis pubis, and behind at the articulation with the sacrum. After the bone has been pulled somewhat away from the rest of the pelvis, the ischial spine, with the recto-vesical fascia attached to it, may be cut off with a bone-forcej)s ; and the loose piece may then be removed by cutting through the fibres of the iliacus and pyriformis muscles, and any other structure that may retain it. A block is afterwards to be placed beneath tlie pelvis. The bladder is to be moderately distended with, air through the ureter, and the urethra is to be tied. Some tow is to be introduced into the rectum, also into the vagina if it is a female pelvis ; and a small piece is to be placed in tlie pouch of peritoneum between the bladder and the rectum. After the viscera are thus made prominent without distension, the ischial spine and the recto-vesical fascia should be raised with hooks while the levator ani (d) and coccygeiis (c) muscles below it are cleaned. Parts closing the pelvis below. In addition to the recto- vesical fascia, the following parts close the pelvic cavity on each side, between the sacrum and the pubic symphysis. Behind, the student will meet with the pyriformis passing through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, with the gluteal vessels and nerve (fig. 119, g a and sr/Ti) above it. Next comes the coccygeus muscle (fig. 180, c) on the small sacro-sciatic ligament, between the ischial spine and the coccyx ; one border of the muscle is contiguous to the pyriformis, the other to the levator ani ; and between its upper border and the pyriformis lie the great sciatic and pudic nerves (^'"'^), with some other branches of the sacral plexus, and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The greater part of the pelvic outlet is closed by the levator ani (d) , which extends forwards from the coccygeus to the symphysis pubis. It meets its fellow behind, but the muscles of opposite sides are separated in front by the urethra, with the vagina in the female ; and the interval between them is closed by the tringular ligament of the perineum (h). The coccTOEUS muscle (fig. 180, c) is flat and triangular, and has much tendinous substance mixed Avith its fil^res. It arises from the upper part of the ischial spine, and some fibres are attached to the adjoining part of the obturator fascia. Widening as it passes inwards, the muscle is inserted into the side, and the contiguous anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lowest piece of the sacrum. The inner surface looks to the j^elvis, and is in contact with the rectum : the opposite surface is in great part covered by the small sacro-sciatic ligament, to which it is closely united. The upper ; border is contiguous to the pyriformis muscle, vessels and nerves intervening ; and the lower meets the levator ani. Action. This muscle helps the levator ani in supporting andLEVATOR ANl MUSCLE. 549 raising the floor of tlie pelvis : it may also draw the coccyx slightly forwards. The LEVATOR ANi (fig. 180, d) is a thin flat muscle, which is Levator attached above to the side of the pelvis, and descends into the outlet of the cavity, where it joins its fellow and supports the viscera, situation; It arises anteriorly by tendinous fasciculi from the back of the origin from pubis along an oblique line in front of the obturator internus ; and 1^"^^^^' below this some fleshy fibres often spring from the upper surface of Fig. 180.* the triangular ligament. Posteriorly it is attached to the lower and [• ''^"^g^^^'^ inner part of the ischial spine ; and between the osseous attach- j^^j^j^^ ' ments the muscle takes origin in the angle between the obturator spine, and recto-vesical portions of the pelvic fascia (along the curved and pelvic line * in fig. 179). From this wide origin the fibres converge, the anterior being directed backwards, and the posterior downwards and inwards, to be inserted in the following manner :—The most insertion n-i p • • • •11 1 /. 1 • centi-al anterior fibres, lew m numl3er, join with the muscle of the opposite point of side in the central point of the perineum ; the succeeding fibres, P"^""®""^' which arise from the pubis, are the longest, and pass backwards over the prostate to the side of the rectum, where they mix to a rectum, small extent with the fibres of the sphincter muscles, but most of them are continued to the tip of the coccyx ; and the posterior a median fibres meet the opposite muscle in a narrow aponeurosis behind ^P^^'^"^^''^^' the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx (p. 426). and coccyx; The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the trian- relations of gular perineal ligament; and there is an interval iDetween the two ^^"^'^i^''^' * Side view of the muscles in the outlet of the pelvis (Illustrations of Dis- sections). Muscles : a. (Huteus maximus, cut. b. Ilio-psoas, cut. c. Coccygeus. d. Levator ani. e. External sphincter, p. Ejaculator urina;. G. Ischial spine, cut off. h. Triangular ligament. Arteries: a. External iliac artery, cut, with b, its accompanying vein. c. Obliterated hypogastric. d. Upper, and e, lower vesical. /. Internal pudic. Nerves: 1. Grreat sciatic. 2. Inferior hsemorrlioidal and perineal of pudic. 3. Dorsal nerve of penis.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. muscles which allows the urethra, with the vagina in the female, to pass from the jDelvis. The posterior border is adjacent to the coccy- geus muscle. The upper surface is in contact with the recto-vesical fascia; and the under surface looks to the ischio-rectal fossa, and is covered by the thin anal fascia. Action. The levatores ani acting together support and raise the floor of the pelvis, and compress the pelvic viscera. They are used in expelling the contents of the abdomen, and in forcible expiratory efforts, acting then in conjunction with the muscles of the abdominal wall. At the end of defsecation, they empty the lower part of the rectum, compressing it from behind forwards ; and the lower fibres assist in closing the anal passage. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles form a fleshy layer or pelvic diaphragm across the outlet of the pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen from the chest : this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. Dissection. The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by detaching the fibres of the levator ani and the coccygeus at their origin, and throwing both downwards. The thin membrane descends above the levator ani to the side of the bladder and the rectum, and sends downwards sheaths round the prostate and the gut. To demon- strate those sheaths, one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the attach- ment of the fascia ; and the tubes are to be separated from the viscera. The RECTO-VESICAL FASCIA Supports and partly invests the viscera of the pelvis. Covering the pelvic surface of the levator ani, it is fixed above, like that muscle, to the pubis in front, and to the obturator fascia at the side ; while behind, it is continued over the coccygeus muscle into the fascia of the pyriformis. Below, it meets the fascia of the opposite side in the centre of the pelvis, and forms a partition across the cavity, like that of the levator ani, which is per- forated by the bladder and the rectum. The partition is strengthened on each side by a thicker band (the so-called white line of the pelvic fascia) stretching from the pubis to the ischial spine (p. 547). It is concave above and convex below, and divides the cavity of the pelvis from the perineal space. This septum is attached to the viscera which pierce it, forming ligaments for them ; and from the under surface tubes are prolonged on the rectum and the prostate. The sheath on the rectum encloses the lower three inches of the intestine, and gradually becomes very thin towards the anus ; it is separated from the intestine by a layer of fat. On the prostate the sheath is thinner than on the rectum, and very closely adherent ; it is continued downwards to the apex of that body, where it passes into the upper layer of the triangular ligament of the urethra : between it and the substance of the prostate are a plexus of veins and some small arteries. In the female the fascia has much the same arrangement as in the male ; but the vagina perforates the membrane, and receives a tube from it, like the prostate.SIDE VIEW OF THE MALE PELVIS. 551 The true ligaments of the bladder are two on each side, anterior Ligaments and lateral, and are portions of the recto-vesical fascia. of the fascia: The anterior reaches from the back of the pubis to the fore part anterior of the prostate and the neck of the bladder; it is a narrow white band, and encloses muscular fibres of the bladder. The lateral ligament is the side piece of the fascia, which is fixed ^j^^^*^''^^ to the upper border of the prostate gland, and to the side of the bladder; bladder close above the vesicula seminalis ; from it an oftset is con- tinued inwards behind the vesicula seminalis, so as to join a like piece from the other side, and form a sheath for those bodies. There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), which are derived from the peritoneum investing it, and will be described in the following Section. Ligament of the rectum. On each side of the rectum is a strong ligament of wide piece of the recto-vesical fascia, which is attached externally ™' to the ischial spine of the hip-bone, and supports that viscus like the bladder. Section II. EELATIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Directions. If the student dissects a female pelvis, he will find the description of it at page 558. Contents and position (fig. 181). The viscera of the male pelvis Contents of ai'e—the rectum, the bladder with the prostate and first part of the ® peivis, urethra, the lower ends of the ureters, parts of the vasa deferentia, and the vesiculae seminales. These have the following relative situation :— The rectum (h) lies at the back of the pelvis, and takes a curved and outline course in the hollow of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder (a) is position, placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland (&) ; and the urethra, after perforating the last, curves forwards to the penis. The ureter {h) descends by the side of the rectum to the hinder part of the bladder ; and the vas deferens (/) and vesicula seminalis (g) are between the bladder and rectum on each side. Some of these organs are partly invested by peritoneum. Dissection. All the recto-vesical fascia, except the anterior true Take away ligament of the bladder, may be taken from the prostate and rectum, g^ean' The obliterated hypogastric cord from the internal iliac artery vessels, should be followed forwards along the bladder from the back of the pelvis ; and the branches of the same artery to the bladder should be cleaned. When the fat has been cleared from the rectum, with- out injuring its arteries, the pouch of the peritoneum, in which tow has been placed, will be brought into view, with the ureter (h) passing to the bladder across its side. The bladder below the peritoneum is to be cleaned: and the vas The several deferens (/) is to be followed down to the seminal sac. Take away to be cleaned.562 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. llecto-vesical fascia. Rectum. I. Levator ani, cut. with care the remains of the sheath of the vesicula serainalis, detiu- ing at the same time the vas deferens internal to the latter. The peri- The PERITONEUM does not envelop the viscera in the pelvis so cover"' completely as in the upper part of the abdomen. After surround- partly the ing the upper portion of the rectum, and forming a fold (meso- ' ™' rectum) behind it, the membrane covers the upper surface of the bladder, and j)i'ojects for some way between the two viscera, thus giving rise to the recto-vesical pouch (fig. 156, rvjj) : on each Fig. 181.* side of the pouch the serous membrane is raised into a ridge or and partly slight fold by the obliterated hypogastric artery. From the summit the bladder, and sides of the bladder it is reflected to the wall of the pelvis and leaving front abdomen. All the front and lower part of the bladder are therefore uncovered by peritoneum ; and when the bladder is distended it rises above the pubic bones, so as to allow of its being opened in front without injury to the serous membrane. The recto-vesical pouch is wide above, where it corresponds with the interval between the iliac arteries, and is narrow below between the rectum and bladder. It descends slightly into the interval between the vesiculse seminales, and ends usually at a line joining the spots where the ureters enter the wall of the bladder. The extent downwards of the pouch varies greatly with the condition of and lower part free, Pouch be- tween the rectum and bladder: extent and distance from anus vary. * Side view of the dissected male pelvis, a. Urinary bladder, b. Prostate, c. Membranous part of the urethra, d. Spongy part of the urethra, e. Crus penis, divided. /. Vas deferens, g. Vesicula seminalis. h. Ureter, i.EELATIONS OF THE RECTUM. 553 the bladder and the rectum, the place of reflection being lower when those organs are empty, and rising when they are distended. With the bladder and rectum moderately filled, the end of the pouch is commonly about one inch and a half from the tip of the coccyx, and three inches (or the length of the fore finger) from the anus. False ligaments of the bladder. These are parts of the continuous False liga- sheet of j)eritoneum reflected from the bladder to the pelvic and {iia^^fer • iibdominal wall. Five ligaments are described, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The 2)osterior false ligament (one on each side) reaches from the posterior; upper and hinder part of the bladder to the front of the sacrum, and forms the side-wall of the recto-vesical pouch. Beneath it are the internal iliac vessels, the obliterated hypogastric artery, the ureter, iind the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic. The lateral false ligament (also one on each side) is the widest, and lateral; is reflected from the side of the bladder to the iliac fossa and the wall ■of the pelvis. It is separated from the posterior and superior liga- ments by the obliterated hypogastric artery. The superior false ligament is the portion of peritoneum between superior, the two obliterated hypogastric arteries, reflected from the upper surface of the bladder over the urachus to the anterior abdominal wall. The RECTUM, or last jmrt of the great intestine (fig. 181, k), extends from the brim of the pelvis, near the sacro-iliac articulation length • of the left side, to the anus, and is about eight inches long. The bowel follows the curve of the sacrum and coccyx, and is supported course and mainly by the peritoneum, the recto-vesical fascia, and the perineal '''^PP"^^*^' muscles. For couA^enience of description it is divided into three divisions, parts :— The upper portion, longer than the others, extends to the centre of ^^^^"^^ ^'^^"^ the third piece of the sacrum. It is almost entirely surrounded by covered by peritoneum, which forms a distinct fold, or meso-rectum, between its gj^d move-"' upper end and the front of the sacrum, so that some degree of move- able; ment from sid,e to side is permitted. Behind it are the sacrum, with relations, the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of the left side ; and the left ureter and internal iliac vessels are adjacent to it, but separated by the peritoneum."^ Tlie middle portion lies b(ihind the Idadder, and reaches to the tip Second part of the coccyx ; it is about three inches in length, and is covered by ^^^'^' peritoneum in front for about the upper half of its extent. Im- mediately below this it pierces the recto-vesical fascia, and receives its sheath from that membrane. Resting on it is the triangular relations, part of the bladder, with the vesicula3 seniinales and vasa deferentia ; and beneath it are the sacrum and coccyx. On each side is the coccygeus muscle. The loiver portion is directed downw^ards and forwards from the Third part end of the coccyx, through the hinder part of the perineum, for a P'^"^^^""^ 5 * In some bodies the first iKxrt of the rectum is much curved to the right side ; and occasionafly this piece of the intestine lies altogether on the right of the sacrum, the lower end of the left colon crossing the sjjine at the brim of the pelvis.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 554 relations with parts around: sometimes much <lilated. Anal canal. liladder is in pelvis when empty, and projects above when full. Axis. Position in pelvis varies with age. Apex has three cords fi om it. Base; parts in contact with it. Surfaces : inferior, distance of about one inch and a half, where it opens on the surface by the anal passage. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is supported by the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani and external sphincter muscles. In front of this part of the rectum are the prostate, the mem- branous part of the urethra, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethra. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling. Sometimes the lower half of the rectum is very much . enlarged, especially in women and old men ; and in that condition in the male it rises up on each side of the prostate. The anal passage or canal (Symington) leads downwards and backwards from the lower end of the rectum to the anal open- ing. Its length varies from half an inch to one inch, being shorter when the bowel is distended. It is surrounded by the sphincter muscles ; and in the closed state it is compressed laterally, so that its side-walls are in contact, and the lumen has the form of a median slit. The URINARY BLADDER (vesica urinaria ; fig. 181, a) is the receptacle for the urine, and is situate in the fore part of the pelvis. When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and lies against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when distended it becomes rather egg-shaped, with the larger part towards the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall. In distension during life it is slightly curved forwards over the pubic bones, and projects above them ; and if its axis were prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall anteriorly a variable distance (according to the distension) above the pubic symphysis, and the lower end of the sacrum posteriorly. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in early life as in the adult. For in the child this viscus rises much above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the part near the neck is elongated. But in the adult the bladder is for the most part contained within the space enclosed by the pelvic bones, and the base projects backwards. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (p. 551 and 553). The relations of the moderately full bladder are as follows :— The summit or ai^iex is rounded, and from it three ligamentous cords are prolonged to the umbilicus; the central one of these is tlie urachus ; and the two lateral are the obliterated hypogastric arteries (fig. 155). All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peritoneum. The base or fundus is large, and rests against the middle piece of the rectum. Connected with the fundus are the vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia ; and between these is a triangular space, from which the peritoneum is mostly absent. The ureter opens into the upper part of the base on each side. Surfaces of the body. The inferior or pubic surface of the body is inRELATIONS OF THE PROSTATE. 555 contact with tlie pubic bones and anterior true ligaments, as well as with the abdominal wall if the bladder is very full, and is altogether free from peritoneum. The superior or abdominal surface is entirely superior covered by the serous membrane, and has the small intestine and sigmoid Hexure resting on it : the vas deferens courses over the hinder part of this surface beneath the peritoneum. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the and lateral, obliterated hypogastric artery, which marks the extent of the peri- toneal covering at the side. The surface below this is connected with the pelvic fascia by very loose areolar tissue. The nech (cervix) is the j)art of the bladder near the urethra, and Neck, is surrounded by the prostate gland. This is the lowest part of the organ. When the bladder is empty, the upper wall falls upon the lower ; gj*^p^y" the apex lies at the upper end of the pubic symphysis ; and the base bladder, is of very small extent and looks downwards. In a median section the cavity then appears as a slit, which is continued backwards for a short distance beyond the beginning of the urethra. The URETER (fig. 181, h) crosses the common or the external iliac ^Jj^lfg^^'^ artery, and inclines forwards below the level of the obliterated hypo- gastric artery, being covered by the peritoneum constituting the posterior false ligament of the bladder. It enters the bladder at the enters upper and outer part of the base, at the distance of one inch and a half or two inches from the jDrostate gland. The PROSTATE GLAND (fig, 181, h) surrouuds the neck of the Prostate: bladder. Its shape is conical with the base turned upwards, and position; its size about equals that of a large chestnut. In the present • position of the pelvis, a line from the apex through the middle of '"^^^^' the gland would be directed obliquely backwards and slightly down- wards towards the sacrum ; but in the erect state of the body the axis is nearly vertical. The anterior surface is about three-quarters of an inch from the '^^ symphysis pubis, to which it is attached by the anterior true liga- surface, ments of the Bladder. On this surface the dorsal vein of the penis divides to enter the prostatic plexus. The posterior surface has the greatest extent, and is close to the rectum ; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. On anc^ si<le; each side the prostate is covered by the levator ani. The ajpex rests on the upper surface of the triangular ligament; apex and and the hase surrounds the neck of the bladder and the common ^ ' seminal ducts. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto- it is con- vesical fascia (p. 550), and the prostatic plexus of veins surrounds sheath; it. Through the gland the urethra takes its course to the perineum ; and the common seminal ducts pierce it obliquely to open into the urethra (fig. 188,/). The size of the prostate A^ariesmuch ; and in size may old men it may acquire a considerable magnitude. increase. The VESicuL^ SEMINALES (fig. 181, q) are two small sacculated Seminal vesicles I bodies, each about two inches long, between the base of the bladder and the rectum. Each is i)vramidal in form, and has the larger end *^\'^^F. ^ ' ^ relations,DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. turned upwards towards the ureter, while the smaller touches the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the pros- tate gland the vesicular approach one another, only the vasa deferentia intervening ; but higher up they diverge, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum the triangular space at the base of the bladder. The vesiculse are contained in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and is lined by in- voluntary muscular fibres. The VAS DEFERENS, Or the excretory duct of the testis (fig. 181, /), in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, and crossing the obliterated hypogastric artery, is directed downwards along the hinder part of the bladder to the base of the prostate, where it forms the common seminal or ejaculatory duct by joining witli the duct from the vesicula seminalis. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it passes internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By tlie side of tlie vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is sacculated. The URETHRA is the excretoi-}^ passage for the urine and semen (fig. 181), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. In lengtli it measures about eight inches, and it presents one or two curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed downwards and forwards through the triangular ligament of the perineum to the root of the penis, forming a large curve with the concavity to the pubis. Thence to its termination the urethra is contained in the penis ; and w^hile this body remains pendent the canal forms a second bend with the concavity downwards ; but if the penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,^—prostatic, membranous, and spongy. The prostatic part (b) is contained in the prostate gland. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture of the body it descends nearly vertically to the triangu.lar ligament. The membranous part (c), about three-quarters of an inch long, intervenes between the apex of the prostate and the lower surface of the triangular ligament. It sla]its forwards in the erect j)osture to the lower part of the triangular ligament; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under surface measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament {n). Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethrjje ; and close behind it are Cowper's glands and the rectum. The spongy part (d) is so named from its being surrounded by a cellulo-vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius at the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is covered by the ejaculator urinse muscle (fig. 144). The cAirve of the urethra is the fixed bend at the hinder part ofURETHRA. AND PENIS. 557 the canal wliicli lies behind the pubis. It extends from the bladder extent; to an inch and a half in front of the aperture in the triangular ligament, and comprises the prostatic and membranous portions, with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned where downwards and backwards, is greatest immediately below the s^^^^est triangular ligament in the erect posture of the body ; and from this point it ascends to the bladder, but is directed nearly horizontally forwards to the penis. It is surrounded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres : Voluntary thus, above the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of the funta?y° prostate ; within the ligament by the voluntary constrictor urethree, muscles with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle ; and below the '^"^^'^^"^ ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urina). Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perineal liga- ^i^^- ment {71), and lies between the layers ; and it is largest in the middle of the prostate. Dissection. The tegumentary covering of the penis may be com- Dissection pletely removed, to see the components of that body ; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The skin should be replaced after the penis has been learnt. The PENIS is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and hangs in Consti- front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous bodies situatioia of (fig. 181, e) named coiyora cavernosa, which are filled with an i^*^'^''^ • areolar structure containing blood. Below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) which surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. The tegumentary investment, which covers the whole, is noticed at p. 445. The body of the penis is rather prismatic in shajje. The upper form and surface is slightly grooved along the middle line ; and the lower rounded border is formed by the corpus spongiosum, which is received into a larger groove between the corpora cavernosa. Besides the attachment of the corpora cavernosa to the bone, the . body of the penis is connected with the front of the symphysis jnibis by the suspensory ligament (p. 445). The corpus spongiosum urethrce encloses the uretliral canal beyond Corpus the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part—the ^^g^j^^^^lj^j^^^ bulb, it extends forwards around the urethra to the extremity of swells into the penis, where it swells into the conical glans penis. The bulb (fig. 181, f^) is directed backwards below the mem-t^'^ ^"i^- branous part of the urethra, and is firmly united to the under surface of the triangular ligament. The ejaculator urinse muscles cover it. This enlargement presents usually a slight central de- wliich is pression, with a bulging on each side, forming two lateral lobes. The glans penis (fig. 189, I) is somewhat conical in form, and and the covers the truncated ends of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is gfans^penis. directed backwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border— the corona glandis; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In the apex is the vertical slit (meatusDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 558 urinarius) in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that aperture is an excavation, which contains the fold of skin named frcenum pneputii. Section III. Contents of the female pelvis, and their situation. Use descriji- tion of male pelvis for muscles and fasci?e. Then clean the viscera of the female pelvis. Reflections of the peri- toneum. EELATIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. In the pelvis of the female are contained the rectum and the bladder, with the ureters and urethra, as in the male ; but there are in addition the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina. Position. The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the male pelvis, and forms a like curve. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of all are the bladder and the urethra. There are thus three tubes connected with the viscera in this sex, viz., the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum; and all are directed downwards to the surface. Directions. The description in Section I. (p. 545) is to be used for instructions respecting the removal of the hip-bone, and the distension of the viscera; also for the muscles of the pelvic outlet and the anatomy of the fasciae. After the student has learnt the muscles and the fascia (p. 547), which are nearly alike in both sexes, he may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female x^elvis. Dissection. On taking away the recto-vesical fascia and much fat, the viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of the uterus, fasten it up with a piece of string passed through the upper end. The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be preserved ; and a piece of cotton-wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated cord of the hypogastric artery is to be followed on the bladder; and the ureter is to be traced forwards by the side of the uterus to the bladder. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum are to be cleaned and separated a little from one another at the lower part of the pelvis ; but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The PERITONEUM gives a partial covering to the viscera, as in the male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, and forming behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued to the back of the vagina and uterus. It covers the posterior, and most of the anterior surface of the uterus, and can be traced to the bladder with- out again touching the vagina ; on each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), which attaches that viscus to the wall of the pelvis. As the peritoneum is followed forwards it may be observed to cover the upper surface of the bladder, and the lateral surface above the position of the ol)literated hypogastric artery. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the following ligaments for the uterus and bladder.559 LIGAMENTS OF THE UTEEUS. The broad ligament of the uterus (tig. 182) passes from the side of Broad liga- the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that organ. ™terus"/ By its position across the pelvis, it divides the cavity into an anterior and a posterior space : in the former the bladder is placed ; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, the small intestine, and the sigmoid flexure when it reaches the pelvis. Each ligament shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, which is corresponding with the bodies contained between its two layers, i^r^e*^ Thus, there is a posterior piece belonging to the ovary and its liga- parts, ment (l) ; an anterior, near the upper edge, which contains the round ligament (n) ; and a iniddle piece, the highest of all, enclos- ing the Fallopian tube (m). Anterior and ijosterior ligaments of the uterus. As the peritoneum Anterior and is reflected from the rectum to the uterus, and from the uterus to jj^aments the bladder, it forms two anterior and two posterior folds or liga- of uterus, ments. The anterior or vesico-uterine pair is smaller than the pos- terior or recto-uterine. The recto-uterine poach, also called recto-vaginal, corresponds with Recto- the recto-vesical in the male. On each side it is bounded by the po^c^f obliterated hypogastric artery ; and below, it reaches beyond the uterus, so as to touch the back of the vagina. The vesico-uterine jjouch is between the uterus and bladder, and is Vesico- much smaller than the foregoing. pouch? The false ligaments of the bladder are five in number, the same as pive liga- in the male, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and a suj^erior : they are all parts of one large piece of peritoneum that reaches from the bladder to the side and front of the pelvis. The j^osterior ligaments, containing the vessels of the bladder, are identical with the vesico- uterine folds, and are much smaller than in the male. The RECTUM (fig. 182, k) is not so curved in the female as in the Relations male, and is generally larger. Descending along the front of the tum^Viz^" sacrum and coccyx to the anus, the intestine is divided into three parts :— The upper portion ends over the third piece of the sacrum, and is of first, enveloped by the peritoneum : its relations are similar to those of the rectum in the male (p. 553). The middle portion reaches to the tip of the coccyx, and has the second, vagina in front, and in contact with it. The peritoneum extends on the front for a short distance. The lower portion ends in the anal canal, which inclines backwards, and third away from the vagina so as to leave between tlie two a space which ^'^^** corresponds, on the surface of the body, with the perineum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani are on the sides, and unite behind this part of the rectum, and the sphincter muscles surround the anal passage. The UTERUS (fig. 182, o) is rather pyriform in shape, and uterus: flattened from before backwards. Unless enlarged, it lies below form and the brim of the pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum ; and it ^i*'^''^^^''"' is supported by the ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards ; and the lower end communicates with the vagina.DISSECTION OF THE I'ELYIS 560 position and The axis of tlie uterus may be said to correspond generally with vary/ ^ ^^^^ of the inlet of the pelvis ; but the position of the organ is sub- ject to considerable variation, and is especially influenced by the state of the bladder. The fundus is commonly directed forwards, and the anterior surface rests against the bladder ; but sometimes the organ is more upright, or even inclined backwards, and then the small intestine descends into the vesico-uterine pouch, relations of The anterior surface, somewhat flattened, is covered by peritoneum, except in the lower fourth where it is in contact with the bladder. The 'poderior surface, rounded, is invested altogether by the serous membrane. extremities The wpi^er end oi f undus is the largest part of the organ, and is in contact with the small intestine. The lower end or nech (cervix) is received into the vagina. and side. To each Side are attached the broad ligament with the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. Round The round or suspensory ligament (n) is a fibrous cord about five ligament. inches long, which is directed forwards and outwards to the internal abdominal ring, and then through the inguinal canal to end in the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated hypogastric, and the ex- ternal iliac artery ; and it is surrounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal. * Side view of the female pelvis. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles and Viscera : A. Pyrifoi'mis muscle, cut. b. Large psoas, cut. c. Gluteus maximus, cut. T>. Coccygeus. and e, levator ani, thrown down. f. Sphincter vaginae. G. Urethra. h. Urina,ry bladder. i. Vagina, k. Rectum, l. Ovary and its ligament. M. Fallopian tube. n. Round ligament, o. Uterus. Arteries: a. External iliac. b. Internal iliac. c. Ovarian, d. Uterine. e. Vaginal. /. Upper hremorrhoidal. g. Grluteal. cut. h. Obliterated hypo- gastric, i. Vesical.RELATIONS OF VISCERA IN FEMALE. 561 The Fallopian tube (m), about four inches long, is contained in Fallopian the upper or free border of the broad ligament. One end is con- *^^^* nected to the uterus close to the fundus, while the other is folded round the ovary. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated like a trumpet, and fringed, forming the corpus jimhriatum: one of the fimbriae is attached to the upper part of the ovary. The OVARY (l) is oval in form, but rather flattened, and very Ovary, variable in size. It forms a projection at the back of the broad ligament, and is invested by the peritoneum except along one (the attached) border. In the natural condition it lies nearly vertically against the side wall of the pelvis, and is embraced by the outer part of the Fallopian tube : the direction of its free border varies. Its lower end, which is directed somewhat forwards, is attached to and its the uterus by a special fibrous band, about one inch and a half in ^^sament. length, the ligament of the ovary. The VAGINA (fig. 182, i) is the tube by which the uterus commu- ^ nicates with the exterior of the body. It is compressed from form; before back ; and its length is about three inches. As it follows length; the bend of the rectum, it is slightly curved ; and its axis corre- axis; sponds below with that of the outlet, but higher up with that of the cavity of the j)elvis. In front of the vagina are the base of the bladder, and the relations, urethra ; and behind it is the rectum, but the peritoneum inter- venes between the two for a short distance at the upper end. It is transmitted through an opening in the recto-vesical fascia, which sends a sheath along the lower half of the tube ; and the levator ani lies along the side external to this. Tlie upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior wall ; and the lower end, the narrowest part of the canal, is encircled by the sphincter vaginoe muscle. A large plexus of veins surrounds the vagina within its sheath. In children, and in the virgin, the ex- ternal aperture is partly closed by the hymen (p. 438). The BLADDER (fig. 182, h) is placed at the forepart of the pelvis, Bladder in front of the vagina, and in contact with the back of the pubic bones. Its positions and relations so closely resemble those of the bladder in the male body, as to render unnecessary a separate de- resembles scription of them (p. 554). The chief differences in the bladder of the tw^o sexes are the following :— In the female the bladder is more globular tlianinthe male, and the ditferenees transverse often exceeds the longitudinal measurement. The base 1^ sexes. of less extent, and is in contact with the vagina and the neck of the uterus. The vasa deferentia, vesiculse seminales, and prostate are absent. The URETER has a longer course in the female than in the male Course of pelvis before it reaches the bladder. After crossing the internal iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of the uterus to its destination. The URETHRA (fig. 182, g) is about one inch and a half long, Urethra: and by its position corresponds to the prostatic and membranous length; portions of the male passage, although it represents only the upper o o562 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. position and talf of the prostatic iirethra. It is situate in front of the vagina, course, describes a slight curve, with the concavity forwards, below the symphysis pubis. Its external opening (meatus urinarius) is placed within the vulva (p. 438). relations. In its course to the surface it is embedded in the tissue of the vaginal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the peri- neum, where it is surroimded by fibres of the deep transverse muscle, and a layer of circular involuntary fibres (p. 440). A plexus of veins surrounds the urethra as well as the vagina. Section IV. VESSELS AND NEEVES OF THE PELVIS. Vessels and In the pelvis are contained the internal iliac vessels and their th™lvfs branches to the viscera, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sym- pathetic nerve. This section is to be used by the dissectors of both the male and female pelvis. Directions. The internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. The air should be j^i^eviously let out of the bladder ; and this viscus and the rectum, with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn aside from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. To dissect Dissection. The loose tissue and fat are to be removed from the ofthTpeivis, trunk of the vessels, as well as from the branches of the artery that leave the pelvis, or supply the viscera ; and the cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. nerves, AVith the vessels are off'sets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, though these will probably not be seen ; but in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and rectum, branches of the sacral spinal veins. nerves will come into view. The veins may be removed in a general dissection. When the vessels are prepared the bladder may be again dis- tended, and the viscera replaced. Internal The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 183, (/) is One of the trunks iliac artery: i>esulting from the division of the common iliac artery, and furnishes branches to the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the organs of generation, and to the limb, size and In the adult the vessel is a short trunk of large capacity, whicli length; measures from an inch to an inch and a half in length. Directed termination; downwards towards the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the artery termi- nates generally in two large pieces,' from which the several offsets are furnished. From the extremit}^ a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends forwards on the bladder, relations; The artery is covered by the peritoneum, and the ureter crosses its upper end oblifj^uely on the inner side. It lies on the sacrum563 INTEEJ^AL ILIAC ARTERY. and luiiibo-sacral cord. It is accompanied by tlie internal iliac position of vein, which is posterior to it, and somewhat to its inner side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the branches, following manner :—From the posterior piece of the trunk three arise, viz., the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. And from the anterior portion come the upper vesical, lower vesical (vaginal in female), middle hsemorrhoidal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic ; and in the female also the uterine artery. Artery in the foetus. In the foetus the hypogastric artery takes Artery in the the place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus. At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery ; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the bladder, and along the side of that viscus to the on the apex. Beyond tlie bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect and beyond; of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally, at the umbilicus, the vessels of opposite sides come in con- tact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, where they receive the name umbilical. In the fcctus, branches similar to those in the adult are furnished branches, by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very diflferent. Change to adult state. When uterine life has ceased, the hypo- Transforma- gastric artery shrinks in consequence of the arrest of the current jjlatonhe of blood through it, and finally becomes obliterated, more or less adult, completely, to within an inch or so of its commencement. The part of the trunk which is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the bladder, forming the superior vesical artery. Peculiarities. The lenr/th of the internal iliac artery varies from half an Trunk often inch to three inches, its extreme measurements ; but in two-thirds of a large varies in number of bodies it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half (R. Quain). l^-'^g^b Size. In the rare cases where the femoral trunk is derived from the internal rarely in iliac, and is placed at the back of the thigh, this vessel is larger than the external iliac. A. The three branches arising from the posterior piece of the Branches of internal iliac may be first examined. the posterior The ilio-himbar artery (fig. 183, h) passes outwards beneath the nio.iumi.ar psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the lunibo- lias an sacral cord, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch :— The ascending or lumbar branch, which is beneath the psoas, ascending supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses with the last lumbar artery : it sends a small spinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra. The transverse or iliac branch divides into offsets that ramify in a transver.-se the iliacus muscle, some running over and some beneath it. At the iliac crest these branches anastomose with the lumbar and cir- cumflex iliac arteries; some deep twigs communicate with the obturator artery, and enter the hip-bone. 0 0 2564 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Lateral sacral arteries supply spinal branches. Gluteal artery: The ilio-lumhar vein opens into tlie common iliac trunk. The lateral sacral arteries (fig. 183, i) are commonly two in number, superior and inferior : they correspond in situation with the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by the side of the apertures in the sacrum. These arteries supply the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with each other, as well as with the middle sacral. A spinal branch enters each aperture in the sacrum. The gluteal artery (fig. 183, m) is the continuation of the posterior division of the internal iliac, and is destined for the gluteal muscles on the outer surface of the hip-bone. It is a short, thick trunk, which leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, above the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis the artery gives small tranches to the contiguous muscles, viz., iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a twig to the hip-bone. * Dissection of the internal iliac artery (Tiedemann). A. Bladder, b. Lower end of the rectum, c. Levator ani. d. Psoas magnus. e. Psoas parvus. F. Iliacus. G. Vas deferens. h. Vesicula seminalis. Arteries: a. Aorta splitting into the common iliacs. h. Middle sacral, c. Common iliac, d. External iliac, e. Epigastric. /. Circumflex iliac, g. Internal iliac, con- tinued by an impervious cord along the bladder, h. Ilio-lumbar. Lateral sacral, h. Obturator. I. Middle hemorrhoidal, m. Grluteal. n. Sciatic. 0. Pudic. Nerves: 1. Lumbo-sacral cord. 2, 3, 4. Upper three sacral nerves. 5. Obturator.BEANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC. 565 B. The branches of the anterior portion of the internal iliac artery Branches are the following :— part?*^^^'^^ The superior vesical artery is the imperfectly obliterated portion upper of the foetal hyj^ogastric artery. It divides into three or four vesical, branches, which ramify over the apex and body of the bladder : the lowest of these is sometimes called the middle vesical branch. The inferior vesical artery often arises in common with the branch LoAver to the rectum. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and the prostate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens. The vaginal artery (fig. 182, e) of the female takes the place of or vaginal, the inferior vesical of the male. It descends on the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. This branch is often given off by the uterine artery. The middle hcemorrhoidal artery commonly arises from the inferior Middle vesical (or vaginal), or from the pudic trunk. It is spent on the Jj^^^aV. anterior and lower part of the rectum, and anastomoses with the other hcemorrhoidal arteries. The obturator artery (fig, 183, k) is directed forwards below the Obturator brim of the pelvis to the aperture at the top of the thyroid fora- courses men : passing through that opening it ends in two branches, which ^^^^j^. ramify on the membrane closing tlie thyroid foramen, beneath the ' obturator externus muscle. In the pelvis the artery has its com- offsets in panion nerve above, and vein below it ; and it gives origin to the l'^'^^'*^' following small branches :— The iliac branch enters the iliac fossa to supply the bone and the iliac branch, iliacns muscle ; it anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. The pubic branch (fig. 154,/) ascends on the posterior aspect of pubic the pubis, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the opposite side, and with an offset from the epigastric artery. Sometimes the obturator takes origin from the epigastric, or the external iliac artery. The sciatic artery (fig. 183, 7i) is the next largest branch to the Sciatic gluteal, and is continued over the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, where it in the pelvis, issues between the pyriformis and the coccygeus muscles. Outside the pelvis it divides into branches beneath the gluteus maximus, and outside and is distributed to the buttock : in the pelvis it supplies the ])yriformis and coccygeus muscles. The internal pudic artery (fig. 183, o) supplies the perineum and Pudic artery the genital organs, and has nearly the same relations in the pelvis pelvis: as the sciatic. It accompanies the sciatic artery, though external to it, and leaves the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the ischial spine of the hip- bone, and enters the perineal space (p. 427). The artery gives some unimportant offsets in the pelvis, and frequently the middle sonie small hcemorrhoidal branch arises from it. Accessory pudic (R. Quain). The pudic artery is sometimes smaller than An acces- usvial, and fails to supply some of its ordinary perineal branches, especially sory pudic the terminal ones to the penis. In those cases the deficient branches are566: . DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. derived from an accessory artery, which takes origin from the internal iliac (mostly from the trunk of the pudic), and courses forwards on the side of the bladder and the prostate gland, to perforate the triangular ligament. It furnishes branches to the penis to supply the place of those that are wanting. Uterine artery: offsets to vagina; joins ovarian. Internal iliac vein : position to its artery ; endint its branches that are peculiar are pudic, doi-sal vein of penis, liaemor- rhoidal. vesical, uterine, and vaginal veins. Other arteries in the pelvis. Ovarian artery : offsets. The uterine artery (fig. 182, d) passes inwards between tlie layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, where the vessel changes its direction, and ascends to the fundus. Numerous branches enter the substance of the uterus, and ramifying in it, are remark- able for their tortuous condition. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supjjlied to the vagina and the bladder ; and ojDposite the ovary a branch bends outwards to anastomose with the ovarian artery of the aorta. The INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN receives the blood from the wall of the pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches corresponding for the most part with those of the artery. The vein is a short thick trunk, which is situate at the posterior and inner aspect of the artery ; and it ends by uniting with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein. Branches. Most of the branches entering the trunk of the in- ternal iliac vein have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the following branches,—the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and hsemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic veins receive roots corresponding with the branches of the pudic artery in the j)erineum (p. 436), but not those correspond- ing with the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis (p. 446) receives veins from the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum of the penis, and entering the pelvis below the symphysis pubis, divides into two, a right and a left branch, which join a large plexus round the prostate (prostoMc pilexus). The middle hmmorrhoidal vein communicates with a large plexus (hsemorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum beneath the mucous membrane (p. ^85). The vesical veins begin in a plexus about the fundus of the bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hsemorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates above with the ovarian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. The vaginal veins surround their tube with a large vascular plexus (p. 588). The arteries in the pelvis, which are not derived from the inter- nal iliac, are the ovarian, superior hsemorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The OVARIAN ARTERY (p. 534), after passing the brim of the pelvis, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be dis- tributed to the ovary : it supplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round ligament; and a large branch anastomose* internally with the uterine artery.567 SACRAL NERVES. The SUPERIOR HEMORRHOIDAL ARTERY, tlie COlltilUiatioil behind Superior the rectum of the inferior mesenteric (p. 488), divides into two j^Jj^a'i' branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends in about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches from the anus ; they terminate opposite the ends in internal sphincter in anastomotic loops beneath the mucous mem- brane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal arteries. The MIDDLE SACRAL ARTERY of the aorta (p. 533 ; fig. 183, b) Middle descends along the middle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, which has and the coccyx. The artery gives small branches laterally, opposite lateral each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral ^ff*^^*^- arteries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the perios- teum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to take the place of the middle lisemorrhoidal artery. The middle sacral veins end in the left common iliac. Dissection (fig. 184). To dissect the nerves of the pelvis, on the Dissection right side, it will be necessary to detach the triangular ligament Qf^|j|pei7is* with the urethra from the bone ; and to cut through, on the right side, the fore part of the recto-vesical fascia and levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended, let the air escape from it. By means of the foregoing dissection the sacral nerves may be lirst four found as they issue from the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, and some branches from the third and fourth to the viscera. The last sacral and the coccy- ^^^^ , geal nerve are of small size, and will be detected coming through the coccygeus muscle, close to the coccyx : these are to be dissected with care ; and the student will succeed best by tracing the con- necting filaments which pass from one to another, beginning above with the ofi'set from the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is sympa- a large plexus of the sympathetic (pelvic plexus), which sends branches to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in the previous dissection ; but if any of it remains, the student may trace the offsets distributed from it, and its communi- cating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral Spinal Nerves (figs. 184; 185). The anterior pri-Sacral mary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number, and de- jive: crease rapidly in size from above downwards. Issuing by the apertures on the front of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted), they receive short filaments of communication from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first three nerves and j)art of the fourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the J"ost enter ^ ' plexus. coccyx. The coccygeal nerve and the peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral will be noticed before the plexus is described.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. The fourth nerve (fig. 184, 4 S) sends one brai>cli upwards to the sucral i^lexus, another downwards to join the fifth nerve, and dis- tributes the following offsets to the viscera and the muscles of the floor of the pelvis :— The visceral branches (^) supply the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Other offsets are added to them from the third sacral nerve (fig. 185, v). The muscular branches are three in number. One rather long ^^^^^^ i- -5 Tlie coccygeal nerve (1 c), after issuing by the lower aperture of the spinal canal, a^^pears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve as above stated. Sacral plexus. This plexus is formed by the lumbo-sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral. It is situate on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery ; and the nerves entering it converge towards the large sacro-sciatic foramen. Here they are united for the most part in a broad flat band, which, becoming * Dissection of the sacral nerves and plexus (altered from Henle). a. Urinary bladder, h. Rectum, c. Levator ani. d. Coccygeus. Nerves: 4Z and 5 I. Fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, giving rise to the lumho-sacral cord. 1 5 to 5 >S'. Five sacral nerves. 1 c. Coccygeal nerve. 1 Upper gluteal nerve. 2. Branch to levator ani. 3. Branch to the bladder, 4. Branch to coccygeus, 5. Branch to the perineum. 6. Common branch of 4 (S, 5 /S, and 1 c, for the back of the coccyx. Fig. 184.* branch (fig. 184,^) enters the levator ani on the vis- ceral aspect; another ("*) sup- plies the coccygeus ; and the third (perineal or hse- morrhoidal branch;^) reaches the perineum by piercing the levator ani or coccygeus muscle, and supplies the ex- ternal sphincter (p. 428). / The fifth nerve (5 S) conies forwards between the sacrum and coccyx, and receives the communicating branch from the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nerve, and ^^erforates that muscle, the sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and the gluteus maxi- mus, to end on the posterior surface of the coccyx (fig. 134).SACEAL PLEXUS. gradually narrower as it leaves the pelvis below the pyriformis, ending; forms the great sciatic nerve. A part of the third nerve, however, and the branch of the fourth entering the plexus unite to form a lower smaller trunk—the pudic nerve ; and other branches are given off by the several nerves before their union. Fig. 185.* Branches. Most of the offsets of the plexus are distributed out- and side the pelvis, and are met with in the dissection of the buttock ^^^^"^^ (p. 645) ; of these only the origin is to be seen now. The named branches are the great and small sciatic, the superior and inferior gluteal, the pudic, and the perforating cutaneous. Other small ofl- sets are furnished to some of the muscles of the buttock. a. The great sciatic nerve (fig. 185, gs) is the principal nerve of Great the lower limb, and is formed by the union of four large roots from ^^'^^'"^ the lumbo-sacral cord and the first three sacral nerves. * Diagram of the sacral plexus, from behind. LSC. Lumbo-sacral cord, formed by the fifth lumbar nerve and a small branch from the fourth. SI to SV. First to fifth sacral nerves. Co. Coccygeal nerve, gs. Great sciatic nerve. ss. Small sciatic. p. Pudic. sg. Superior gluteal, ig. Inferior gluteal, py. Branch to pyriformis. oi. Nerve to obturator intei-nus. q. Nerve to quadratus. v. Visceral branches of third and fourth sacral nerves, la. Branch to levator ani. co. Branch to coccygeus. h. Hemorrhoidal or perineal branch of fourth sacral.DISSECTION OF THE TELYIS. 570 Superior gluteal. Inferioi" gluteal. Small sciatic. Pudic. Perforating cutaneous. Branch to pyrifonnis. Branch to obturator internus. Branch to (luadratus. Sympathetic intheijelvis. The gan- gliated cord joins that of opposite side below in a loop : offsets of the ganglia, to the spinal nerves, to the pelvic plexus and the viscera. Pelvic plexuses: situation h. The swperior gluteal nerve (sg) arises by two roots from tlie lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, and leaves tlie pelvis with the gluteal artery above the pyriformis for the supply of the muscles on the outer surface of the ilium. a The inferior gluteal (ig) is the nerve of the gluteus maximus.. It sj)rings from the lumbo-sacral cord and first two sacral nerves, and passes out below the jDyriformis. ' d. The small sciatic (ss) is the cutaneous nerve of the back of the thigh, and arises below the foregoing (with which it is often con- nected) from the second and tliird sacral nerves. e. The pudic nerve (p) supplies the perineum and the genital organs. It arises from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and courses over the small sacro-sciatic ligament, in company with its> artery, to the small sacro-sciatic foramen (p. 427). /. The perforating cutaneous nerve (p c) arises from the fourth, or third and fourth, sacral nerves, and passes backwards through the great sacro-sciatic ligament to the skin of the buttock (p. 428). g. The branch to the pyriformis (py) is usually given off from the second sacral nerve, and enters the anterior surface of its muscle. h. The nerve to the obturator internus (o i) springs from the front of the part of the plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral cord with the first sacral nerve. It leaves the pelvis wdth the pudic artery, and winding over the ischial spine and through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, enters the perineal surface of the muscle: it gives a branch to the superior gemellus. i. The nerve to the quadratus femoris and inferior gemellus (q) arises from the front of the j)lexus below the preceding. Sympathetic Nerve. In the pelvis the sympathetic nerve con- sists of a gangliated cord, and of a plexus on each side. The GANGLIATED CORD (fig. 184) lies on the front of tlie sacrum^, internal to the series of apertures in that bone. Inferiorly it con- verges to its fellow^, and is united with it by a loop in front of the coccyx, on which there is often a median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five : from them branches of communication pass outwards to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are usually two to each ganglion, grey and white, and are very short. The internal branches are small, and communicate around the middle sacral artery with the branches of the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the pelvic plexus ; and from the terminal loop offsets descend over the coccyx. The PELVIC PLEXUSES (lateral inferior hypogastric) are two in number, right and left, and are continuous with the lateral pro- longations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 490). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and rectum in the male, and by the side of the uterus and vagina in the female, and is joined by offsets of the how formed: third and fourth sacral nerves Numerous ganglia are found inSYMPATHETIC NERVE. the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets. From each plexus offsets are furnished along the branches offsets to of the internal iliac artery to the viscera of the pelvis, and the genital of the^nmie organs : these form secondary plexuses, and have the same name as viz., the vessels on which they are placed. The inferior hemorrhoidal plexus is an offset from the hack of ^'^ ^}^^ 111 T • 1 1-1 • rectum; the plexus to the rectum, and joms the sympathetic on the superior ha3morrhoidal artery (p. 489). l^h.Q vesical plexus contains large offsets, with manv white-fibred to tiie or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and neck of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexus leaves the front of the pelvic plexus, and g^^^p^j^,^^*" supplies the substance of the j)rostate. At the front of the j)rostate penis': an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis tlie cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the following additional plexuses for the offsets in supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— ^ '^'"'^ '' Ovarian plexus. The chief nerves to the ovary are derived from to the the renal and aortic plexuses (p. 489), and accompany the artery ' of that body ; but the uterine nerves supply some filaments to it. Vaqinal nerves. The nerves of the vajrina are large, and are not to tiie plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve-fibres ; they end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus with only a small '^^^^^^ admixture of the spinal nerves : they ascend along the side of the uterus, and consist of long slender filaments without ganglia or com- munications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves. Some few nerves surrounding the arteries of the uterus are plexi- form and ganglionic. The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF THE PELVIS fomi oue chain ill front ^j'^^i^^^^!':' of the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac vessels : their efferent ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep ]yiiij)hatics of the penis, those of the genital organs in the female, lymphatics and the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the pelvis are col- them. ° lected. Section Y. ANATOMY OF THE VISCEEA OF THE MALE PELVIS. Directions. The bladder and the bodies at its base, viz., the vesicula? seminales, and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for examina- tion.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 5,72 Take out the viscera; separate rectum; clean tlie bladdei- and peni.s. Dissection. To study the form and structure of the viscera, it will be necessary to remove them from the pelvis. For this j)urpose the student should carry the scalpel round the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundary, so as to detach the crus of the penis from the bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be separated from the other organs ; ljut the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue is to be removed from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland and the vesiculEe seminales are then to be cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis it is to be taken aAvay. Prostate yland : situation form; dimensions; and weight. Surfaces : base ; and apex. Three lobes, two lateral. and a cen- tral. Gland con- tains three tubes. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate Gland (fig. 186). This is a firm muscular body con- taining glands, which surrounds the neck of the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its relations have been enumerated at p. 555. The prostate is conical in form, like a chestnut, with the base directed upwards. Its dimensions are the following : —Transversely at the base it measures about an inch and a half ; from apex to base an inch and a quarter ; and from before back about three- quarters of an inch or an inch: so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and Ijackwards Avill be the longest that can be ]jractised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this respect it varies greatly. The anterior surface of the prostate is narrow and rounded. The posterior surface, larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes. The base is thick, and at its posterior part has a median notch, which receives the common seminal ducts. The apex is pierced by the urethra. Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle and two lateral, though there is no fissure in the firm mass. The lateral lobes (fig. 186, h, c) are similar on the two sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form the chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe (d) will be brought into view by detach- ing the vesiculte seminales and the vasa deferentia from the bladder : it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, which extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contained in the substance of the prostate (fig. 188). The former is transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal.STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. 57S Stmdure. On a section the gland appears reddish grey in colour, Structure, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of muscular and fibrous tissues, with interspersed glandu- lar structure ; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous sheath derived from the recto-vesical fascia (p. 550). Muscular tissue. The firm mass of this body consists mainly of Muscular involuntary muscular fibres, intermixed with elastic and fibrous pi^^_!.^^ tissues. One set of muscular fibres is arranged circularly round circular, the urethral canal,—these are continuous above with the annular fibres of the bladder, and below with a thin layer of circular fibres surrounding the membranous j)ortion of the urethra ; others run transversely behind the urethra, and radiate in each lateral lobe radiating, through the glandular substance ; and over the greater part of the g^^^ suiier- surface is an external stratum, forming a kind of capsule, which ^i^iai; adheres to the fibrous sheath. Along the front and towards the ^^^'^ striped, apex, the superficial part of the organ is composed of striated mus- cular fibres, also disposed transversely, which are continued into the constrictor urethrse muscle between the layers of the triangular liga- ment. Glandular substance. This is composed of a number of small Giauds iu branched glands, which are embedded in the muscular stroma, n^l^sscs: There are three chief collections,—a small one in the central lobe, and a larger one in each lateral lobe. The ducts of the glands vary '.'"cts open in number frojn twelve to twenty, and open into the prostatic part urethra, of the urethra (p. 579). Blood-vessels. The arteries are small, and are furnished by the Arteries, inferior vesical and middle hajmorrhoidal. The veins form a plexus Veins foj-m round the gland, which receives in front the dorsal vein of the x^enis, ^ i'^^^^^- and is continued behind into the plexus at the base of the Idadder. In old men these vessels may give rise to consideral)le haimorrhage in the operation of lithotomy. The nerves are supplied from the pelvic plexus. Tlie lymphatics Nerves, of this body" and of the vesiculae seminales are received into the Lynii>hatics. glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. Vesicul^e Seminales (fig. 186, e). These vesicles are two mem- Seminal branous sacs, which serve as receptacles for, and probably secrete a ^^^^^^j^^^j^ special fluid to mix with, the semen. They are placed at the base of the bladder above the prostate, and diverge from one another so as to limit laterally a triangular space in that situation : their form and relations have been already described (p. 555). Though fo™; sacculated and bulged above, the vesicula becomes straight and narrowed below (duct) ; and at the base of the prostate it blends with the vas deferens to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct {g). The vesicula seminalis consists of a tube bent into a zigzag form, S^,",^^?*'^^ ^ 11 1 1 -iiTP i-i folded tube; SO as to produce lateral sacs or ]30uches, the bends oi which are bound together by fibrous tissue ; this cellular structure will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, its formative tube, which is about the size of a quill, measures from four to six inches in length, and ends above in a g^"^*^^DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. closed extremity : connected with the tuhe at intervals, are lateral csecal appendages (fig. 186). Vesicle lias Structure. The wall of the seminal vesicle has the same number usual coats; of layers as the vas deferens (p. 527); but the muscular coat is thinner. a covering Within the casing of the recto-vesical fascia, the vesiculae and libres; deferentia are covered by a layer of transverse and longitudinal plain muscular fibres. The transverse are the more superficial Fig. 186.* (the base of the bladder being upwards), are strongest near the prostate, and act most on the vasa deferentia.. The longitudinal fibres, placed chiefly on the sides of the vesicul£e, are continued forwards with the common seminal ducts to the urethra. (Roy. Med. Chir. Trans. 1856.) and a mu- The mucous membrane is thrown into ridges by the bending of cous coat, the tube, and presents an alveolar or honeycomb appearance ; it is provided with tubular glands, as in the vas deferens. End of vas End of vas deferens (fig. 186). Opposite the vesicula the vas deferens. cleferens is enlarged, and is rather sacculated like the contiguous vesicle ; but before it joins the tube of that body to form the * View of the posterior surface of the bladder, with the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia (slightly altered from Haller). a. Bladder, b and c. Right and left lateral lobes of the prostate, d. Middle lobe. e. Vesicula seminalis, the right one unravelled. /. Vas deferens, g. Common seminal duct, formed by the union of the vas deferens with the duct of the vesicula. h. Ureter.575 STRUCTURE OF URINARY BLADDER. common seminal duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. In the mucous lining are numerous tubular glands (Henle). Common seminal ducts (fig. 188,/). These tubes (right and left) Semmai^^^ are formed by the junction of tlie narrowed part or duct of the former/: ^ vesicula seminalis with tlie vas deferens of the same side. They begin opposite the base of the prostate, and are directed downwards extent; and forwards through an aperture in the transverse prostatic fibres, course; and along the sides of the A^esicula prostatica (p. 579), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather less than an inch, and length; their course is convergent to their termination close to each other in termination; the floor of the urethra (p. 579). Structure. The wall of the common duct is thinner than that of structure, the vesicula seminalis ; but it possesses similar coats. It is sur- rounded by longitudinal involuntary muscular fibres, which blend in the urethra with the submucous stratum. THE BLADDER. After the bladder has been removed from the pelvis, its form Bladder out and the extent of its difl'erent regions can be more conveniently ^^^^^ ^'^^ • studied. While the bladder is in tlie body, it is ovoidal in shape, and form; rather flattened from above down ; but out of the body it is rounder than when in its natural position, and it loses the arched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches dimensions, in length, and three inches across. Its capacity is greatly influenced by the age and habits of the individual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint without inconvenience during life, though it can contain much more when distended. Structure. A muscular and a mucous coat, with an interven- coats or the ing fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at certain parts ladder, the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. The imperfect covering oi jperitonemn has been described (p. 552). Peritoneal. The muscular coat is formed of three thin layers of unstriated Muscular muscular fibres, viz., an external or longitudinal, a middle or g^^j.^*g"^^" <:ircular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 187, ^) form a continuous covering, External or with the usual plexiform disposition of the muscular bundles, and nai? ^' extend from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the attach- urachus and the subperitoneal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior ^^"t'^; and lateral fibres enter the prostate ; while the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, but a fasciculus on each side is united to the back of the pubis through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than on the sides, forms Sometimes this outer layer of fibres is called detrusor uvince from its udm^!^^ action in the expulsion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 187, ^) are thin and scattered on the body Middle continuousDISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. of the bladder; but around the cervix they are collected into a thick bundle, the sphincter vesicce, and are continuous below with the fibres of the prostate. When these fibres are hypertrophied, they project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder ; and in some bodies the mucous coat may be forced out- wards here and there between them, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. The submucous stratum (fig. 187, forms a continuous layer over the lower half of the bladder, Fig. 187.* but its fibres are scattered above. In the lower third of the viscus the fibres are lon- gitudinal, and are continued around the urethra ; but they become oblique above that l)oint. At the back of the ]:)ladder the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The muscular strata com- municate freely, so that one cannot be separated from an- other without division of the connecting bundles of fibres. In both sexes the disposition of the fibres is similar (Roy. Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). Fibrous or suhnucous coat. A fibrous layer is placed between the muscular and mucous strata, and is enumerated as one of the coats of the bladder; it is composed, as in other hollow viscera, of areolar and elastic tissues, in which the vessels and nerves ramify. Dissection. The bladder is now to be opened by an incision along the pubic surface; and the cut is to be continued down the front of the prostate gland. The mucous membi^ane of the bladder is of a pale rose colour in the healthy state soon after death. It is continuous above with the lining of the ureters, and below with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular layer; and it is thrown into * Muscular fibres of the bladder, prostate, and urethra. 1. External or longitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Circular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer, 4. Muscular layer around the urethra. 5. Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous with the circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corpus spongiosum, 8. Corpus spongiosum. 9. Corpus caver- nosum, 10. Ureter.INTERIOE OF THE BLADDER. 577 numerous folds in. the flaccid state of tlie viscus, except over a small triangular sjjace behind the urethral opening. Objects inside the bladder. Within the bladder are the following interior of special parts, viz., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, with tlie ^^^^ ^^^'i'^^'''- triangular surface (fig. 189). Orifices. At the lower part of the bladder is the orifice of the Opening of urethra, surrounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longitudinal folds ; and the aperture is partly closed by a small elongated prominence behind, uvula vesicce, occa- with the sioned by a thickening of the submucous muscular and fibrous layers. This eminence is placed over the middle lobe of the pro- state ; and from its anterior end a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra. About an inch and a half from the orifice of the urethra, and ^P'^'""S^ of rather more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openings of the ureters (fig. 189). The tubes perforate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of three-quarters of an inch, so that the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended. Each terminates by a slit-like opening in a prominence of the subjacent muscular fibres. Triangular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the urethra Trigone of is a smooth triangular surface, which is named trigone (trigonum ' vesicae ; fig. 189). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaries may be marked out by a line on each side 5lJJ^,jf|g(^^. from the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one, behind, between the openings of the ureters. This surface corresponds Avith part corre- the triangular space externally at the base of the bladder, between externally, the vesicula3 seminales and vasa deferentia. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occurring in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The arrangement of the fleshy fibres of the ureters'T*^ expose will come into yiew on the removal of the mucous membrane from ureters! the lower third of the bladder. Ending of the fibres of the ureter. As soon as the ureter pierces ^jJJ.gg^yf'^ the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are ureters, thus disposed;—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube ; wliile the remainder are continued down over the triangular surface, and blend with the submucous layer. Blood-vessels and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries, and Arteries; the termination of the veins, have been detailed (p. 565). The'^'eins; vessels are disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though nerves of supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 571), are ^ derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymphatics enter the Lymphatics, glands by the side of the internal iliac vessels. p p578 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Urethra : extent and length ; division into parts. How to open the urethra. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 189). The tube of the urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an average length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life. It is supported by the prostate, the triangular ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is divided, as before said (p. 556), into a prostatic, a membranous, and a spongy part. Dissection. To open the urethra, let the incision through the Fig. 188.* Prostatic part: dimensions and shape; diameter. On the floor is a crest: in the crest is a ponch. prostate be continued onwards to the extremity of the penis along the line of union of the urethral canal with the corpus cavernosum. The prostatic part (fig. 188) is nearer the anterior than the posterior surface of the muscular mass surrounding it. It is one inch and a quarter in length, and is the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement at the neck of the bladder is nearly a third of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the lower end rather less than at the beginning. Separating this part of the passage from the bladder is the emi- nence of the uvula vesicae. Beginning half an inch below this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining (fig. 189 d), about three-quarters of an inch in length, and larger above than below, which is prolonged towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (verumontanuin, caput gallinaginis) : it is formed of erectile substance, with a framework of elastic and muscular tissues. In the crest of the mucous meni- * Section through the bladder, prostate, and urethra, to show the vesicula prostatica and the common seminal duct. o. Bladder, b. Prostate, c. Prostatic part of urethra. d. Vesicula seminalis. e. Vas deferens. /. Common ejacalatory duct. g. Vesicula prostatica ; above this is the middle lobe of the prostate.579 INTERIOR OF THE URETHRA. brane, near its posterior extremity, is a small hollow (g) named vesicula prostatica, sinus ^ocularis, or utricle. The vesicula iwostatica (fig. 188, g) is directed backwards in the Vesicuia prostate, j'or a quarter of an inch, passing beneath the middle and tue'prostate) between the lateral lobes. Its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity is about as large again. Along the and by its wall, on each side, is placed the common seminal duct (/), which Jj^J^^^^^J^^y terminates, on or within the margin of the mouth of the sac ; and if ducts, bristles are introduced into the common seminal duct behind the prostate, they will render the apertures evident. Small glands •open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle. The vesicula is the remains of the united lower ends of the fcetal ducts of Muller, and represents the uterus and vagina in the female. On each side of the central crest is an excavation, which is named Prostatic the 'prostatic sinus (fig. 189, /). Into this hollow the greater number in"floor.^^^° of the ducts of the prostatic glands open ; but the aj^ertures of some are seen at the back of the central eminence. The MEMBRANOUS PART OF THE URETHRA (fig. 189, g) is three- Membran. quarters of an inch in length, and intervenes between the apex of * the prostate gland and the bulb {k) of the corpus spongiosum urethrse. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the dimensions; narrowest piece of the whole tube, with the exception of the outer orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, and is supported parts by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of unstriated circular fibres (p. 435), and outside all by the constrictor urethree muscle. The SPONGY PART (fig. 189, i) reaches to the end of the penis. ^^^'^^^ It is about six inches in length, and its strength depends upon a surrounding material named corpus spongiosum urethree. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in dimensions; <liameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on-the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. On a cross section it appears star-shaped, but in the glans, as a vertical slit. Two dilatations exist in the spongy portion ;—one is two diiata- along the floor close to the triangular ligament, being contained in one iiilbuib, the bulb or bulbous part of the urethra, and is named sinus of the one in glans; hulh ; the other is an elongated hollow, situate in the glans penis, and is called fossa navicularis (?i). There are many small pouches or lacuna} (o) in the canal as far lacume, back as the membranous part, which have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these, larger than one larger the rest, lacuna magna, is found generally immediately within the ^Jst! ^ meatus, in the roof of the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Coiuper^'s glands (fig. 189, h) are two in number. Ducts of and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the co^"per*^* ' bulb ; but their openings are generally too small to be recognised. Mucous lining of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the urethra Mucous is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts opening into the canal, and joins in front the tegumentary covering of the glans p p 2DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. penis. It is of a reddish colour in the spongy and membranons portions, bnt in the prostate it becomes whiter. In the spongy and Fig. 189.* folds; membranous parts it is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the penis. * View of the lower part of the bladder and of the urethra laid open. a. Trigone of the bladder, h. Openings of the Ureters, c. Prostate, cut, d. Crest of urethra, e. Sinus pocularis. /. Prostatic sinuH, with openings of581 STEUCTtlUE OF THE PENIS'. Its surface is studded throughout with the apertures of minute glands, glands, which are lodged in the submucous tissue, and the ducts of which are inclined obliquely forwards. Submucous tissue. Beneath the mucous lining of the urethra is a Submucous stratum of longitudinal unstriated muscular fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous behind with the sub- mucous fibres of the bladder, and is joined in the prostate by the nature; muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal ducts. The stratum differs at sjDots :—it is most developed in the prostate ; arrangement in the membranous portion the muscular structure is less abundant; ^^etlira. and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms most of the submucous layer. Around the membranous and j^rostatic divisions of the urethra Erectile there is, in addition, immediately beneath the mucous membrane, a JhrouWout thin layer of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued back- wards from the' corpus spongiosum to the neck of the bladder. Structure op the penis. The form and the relations of the ^^^^^^^ penis having been described on p. 557, the bodies of which it is two vascular composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one [^Q^^^j^gg^ side of the penis, it will show this organ to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) encased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them, and having the corpus spongiosum attached along their under surface. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 189, r). These bodies form the bulk of Corpora the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, con- attached' taining erectile structure. Each is fixed behind by a pointed process separatelj', the glands of the prostate, g. Membranous part of the urethra, h. Cowper's glands, a duct from each opening into the urethra, i. Spongy part of the urethra. Jc. Bulb of the corpus spongiosum. I. Glans penis, n. Fossa navicularis. o. Openings of lacunoe and glands, r. Corpus cavernosum of the penis. * View of the fibres of the case of the corpus cavernosum. 6. External or longitudinal layer, a. Inner or circular fibres. 1. Pectiniform septum.DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. 582 blend together in front: bulb. Structure that sends in processes; fibres forii strata; a septal piece, whicli is imperfect; how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. Vessels. cms penis, to the conjoined rami of the ischium and pubis for about an inch, and blends with its fellow in the body of the penis, about an inch and a half from its posterior extremity. There is a slight swelling on the crus, called the bulb of the corpus cavernosum (Kobelt). Each cor]jus cavernosum is composed of a fibrous case containing a cavernous or trabecular structure, with blood-spaces between the trabeculse of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis. The fibrous case is a white, strong, elastic covering (fig. 190); from half a line to a line in thickness. Along Fig. 191.* the middle of the penis a septal process is sent inwards from it ; and numerous other finer threads,—the trabeculse of the sjDongy structure, are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres which are disposed in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum (fig. 190, h) is formed of longitudinal fibres with close meshes. The inner stratum (fig. 190, a) consists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform disposition; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meet- ing in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are inseparably united by communicating bundles. The septal process (fig. 191) is placed ver- tically along the body of the penis, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed cavity into two ; but as it reaches forwards it becomes less strong, and is pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, from which the name septum pectiniforme is derived. Through the intervals in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa com- municate. It is formed by the circular fibres of the fibrous case. The cavernous or trabecular structure is a network of fine threads, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its processes are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference; and the areolar spaces are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained cavity, than at the circumference or in the crura of the penis. The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Blood-vessels. The blood vessels of the penis are of large size, and serve to nourish as well as to minister to the function of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. * Pectiniform septum of the penis, a. Apertures in the partition, h. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a comb, which are formed by the circular fibres.CORPUS SPONGIOSUM URETHRA. 588 Tlie arteries of the corpora cavernosa are offsets of the piidic ; the Source of chief branch (artery of the corpus cavernosum ; p. 436) enters at the ^i^e arteries, cms, and runs forwards through the middle of the cavernous struc- ture, distributing offsets ; and the rest, coming from the dorsal artery (p. 446), pierce the fibrous case along the dorsum of the penis. In the interior they divide into branches, which ramify in the termination trabeculse, becoming finer, until they terminate in very minute spaces?"^ branches, which open into the intertrabecular venous spaces. By the distension of these spaces the erection of the corpora cavernosa is produced. The veins spring from the intertrabecular spaces, and some issue veins in along the upper and under aspects of the penis to join the dorsal vein ; but the principal trunks escape at the crus penis and pass to the pudic veins. Corpus spongiosum URETHRiE. This constituent part of the Spongy penis surrounds the urethra, but not equally on all sides ; for at the "i\e penis: bulb only a thin stratum is above the canal, while at the glans penis (fig. 189, I) the chief mass is placed above the urethral tube. Structure. The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is similar to that its structure of the corjDus cavernosum ; thus it consists of a fibrous tunic enclos- Jjous?^^*^'^' ing a trabecular structure with blood-spaces. The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora The fibrous cavernosa, and consists only of circidar fibres. A septal piece (fig. ^^^^ * 187,'') projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite the tube imperfect of the urethra; this is best marked for a short distance in front of ^^P''^"^' the bulb, and assists in dividing that part into two lobes. The trabecular bands are mucli finer, and more uniform in size than in trabecuia-. the corpora cavernosa. Blood-vessels. The arrangement of the blood-vessels in the erectile Blood- structure of the corpus spongiosum is similar in the bulb to that in ^ '^"^^ ' the corpora cavernosa ; but in the rest of the spongy substance the arteries are said to end in capillaries in the usual way. The arteries-axe derived from the pudic on each side ; a large one source of behind, the artery of the bulb (p. 436), enters the upper surface of the bulb ; and several in front, offsets of the dorsal artery (p. 446), penetrate the glans. Kobelt describes another branch to the fore part of the bulb. Most of the veins, including those of the glans, end in the large termination dorsal vein of the penis, some communicating with veins of the *^ e\cin.. cavernous body : others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the penis are large, and are Nerves, supplied by both the spinal and sympathetic nerves (p. 446 and 571). The superficial hjmphatics of the integuments, and those beneath the Lymphatics, mucous membrane of the urethra, join the inguinal glands ; the deep accompany the veins beneath the subpubic arch, to end in the lymphatic glands in the pelvis.584 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. THE RECTUM. To prepare the gut. Rectum: length ; dimensions: sacculi. Same coats as in the rest of the intestine :— Peritoneum. Muscular coat has longi- tudinal and circular llbres. Mucous coat is thick and vascular ; folds in it. Permanent folds in wall of rectum. Dissection. The rectum is to be washed out and then distended with tow; and the peritoneum and the loose fat are to be removed from it. This portion of the intestine is about eight inches in length. Its upper end is rather smaller than the sigmoid flexure of the colon, but in its lower half it is dilated, especially in old people : the anal canal in which it terminates (p. 554) is the narrowest part of the large bowel. It is sacculated, although not so distinctly as the colon ; the pouches are arranged in two rows, right and left, and they become larger and less numerous towards the lower encl."^ Structvre. The rectum contains in its wall a peritoneal, a mus- cular, a submucous, and a mucous stratum ; and the muscular and mucous coats have certain characters which distinguish this part of the intestinal tube. The peritoneum forms but an incomplete covering, and its arrange- ment is referred to in the description of the relations of the pelvic viscera (p. 553). The muscular coat consists of two layers of pale or unstriated fibres, viz., a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The longitudinal fibres are mainly collected into anterior and poste- rior bands, which spread out and increase in thickness below : the anterior band is the broader, and is formed by the union of two ol' the bands of the colon, while the posterior is the continuation of the band lying along the attached border of the colon. These bands are shorter than the other strata of the wall, and thus give rise to the sacculations. The circular fibres describe arches around the intestine, and become thicker and stronger towards the anus, where they are collected in the band of the internal sphincter muscle (p. 426). The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and resembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus ; it is also thicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestine. When the bowel is contracted the mucous lining is thrown into numerous accidental folds, for the most part transverse or oblique ; but in the anal canal the folds are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are also IDaermanent transverse folds of the intestinal wall corresponding to the depressions between the sacculi externally. The largest and most regular of these are in the lower portion of the gut, one being on the right side and front about three inches from the anus, and corresponding approximately to the spot where the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum ends, another on the left side about one inch higher, and a third, which is less constant, on the left side pos- teriorly, below the first. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the front, provided it ife tolerably fresh. *" See a paper by W. J. Otis, "Anatomical Researches on tlie Human Eectam," Leipzig, 1887.ANATOMY OF FEMALE VISCERA. 685 The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the ^J^g'\\^^^JJ^'J^g^^ colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually dis- appears. Blood-vessels. The arteries are supplied from three different sources, Artsries: viz., superior hemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric, middle hsemorrhoidal of tlie internal iliac, and inferior lisemorrhoidal of the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut ; but only the upper hasmorrhoidal, which is the largest, re- quires farther notice. The final branches of this artery (p. 567), ^^^^p^^®"*^ about six in number, pierce the muscular layer three inches from hEemor-'^^^^ the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as i"hoidaL far as the internal spliincter, where they unite in loops just within the anus. The veins have no valves, and communicate freely in a large plexus (hsemorrhoidal) between the muscular and mucous coats, valves, round the lower end of the gut. Above they join tlie inferior mesenteric vein, and througli it reach the vena portse ; and below they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by the middle and inferior hoemorrhoidal branches. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the intestine are obtained Nerves, from the sympathetic; but those of the external sphincter come from the spinal nerves. Tlie lynqjhatics terminate in the chain of Lymphatics, glands on the sacrum. Section YI. AXATOMY OF THE FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA. In the pelvis are contained the viscera alike in both sexes, viz.. Viscera iu the bladder, urethra, and rectum, and those special to the female, ^^'^ I'^ivib. or the organs oi generation. Dissection. The contents of the pelvis are to he removed, together To remove with the genital organs. For this purpose the student should keep ^® visceia, the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid injuring the end of the rectum ; and he should also detach the crus of the clitoris from the bone. After the parts are taken from the body, the rectum is to be ami prepare separated from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united until after the genital organs are examined. The bladder and rectum may be moderately distended; and the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed from the viscera. GENITAL ORGANS. The genital organs, or external organs of generation, consist of External the following parts :—the mons Veneris and external labia, the generation, clitoris and internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the internal labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen. The name vulva or pudendum is applied to theseDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 580 parts as a whole. Only the clitoris remains to be examined now, the others having been seen in the dissection of the perineum (p. 438) ; but there is also an erectile body on each side of the entrance to the vagina, called the bulb of the vestibule, to be noticed. Clitoris: iJissection. To see the clitoris, the integuments forming the to^see^tT ^i^terior commissure must be removed; and, after the body of the organ has been laid bare, the crura, one on each side, are to be followed outwards. is like the The CLITORIS (fig. 192, h) is a small erectile body, and is the penis; rejjresentative of the penis. It has the same composition as the Fig. 192.* lias a glans and pre- puce ; composi- tion, corpora cavernosa, corpus .spoiiyiu- suni, and erectile tissue. penis, except that the urethra is not continued along it. Its anterior extremity is terminated by a rounded part or glans (c), and is covered by a fold of the mucous membrane corresponding to the prepuce of the male (p. 438). In its structure this organ resembles the penis in the following particulars :—It consists of corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura (one on each side ; a) to the ischio-pubic rami, and are blended in the body. A small suspensory ligament descends to it from the superficial fascia of the mons Veneris; and along the middle is an imperfect pectiniform septum. Farther, it possesses a portion of corpus sjDongiosum, but this structure is limited to the glans clitoridis (c). Structure. The outer fibrous casing and the septum are alike in both penis and clitoris ; and in the interior of the clitoris is an erectile tissue, like that in the male organ (p. 582). The Uood-vessels of the corpus cavernosum are like those of the * Representation of the clitoris, a. Crus, and b, body of the corpus caver- nosum. c. Grlans clitoridis. The lower figure shows the structure on a vertical section ; the same letters refer to like parts.FEMALE OEGANS OF GENERATION. penis; and the glans receives the ending of the dorsal artery (p. 446). The BULB OF THE VESTIBULE (semi-bulb, Taylor; fig. 193, a) is an elongated and flattened mass of cavernous or erectile tissue, which is enclosed in a thin fibrous coat. It lies by the side of the vestibule and the entrance to the vagina, above (deeper than) the nympha, resting against the lower surface of the triangular ligament, and being covered by the sphincter vaginse muscle (a). Each is about an inch and a half long, and is larger at its hinder end, where it measures about half an inch in depth. By their narrow anterior ends the two bulbs are united in front of the urethra ; and they are joined by a venous plexus to the small gians of the -pig^. 193.* clitoris. These bodies answer to the divided bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrao in the male. GENERATIVE ORGANS. The generative or- gans, or internal organs of generation, are the uterus and vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection. The vis- cera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use. The surface of the vagina and the lower part-of the uterus should be cleaned ; but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. Bulbs of vestibule situation ; relations; connected to clitoris clean vagina. THE VAGINA. The tube of the vagina (fig. 182, i) is connected with the uterus Vagina: at one end, and with the vulva at the other. It has a slightly ^^^^^^ curved course between the two points mentioned ; and the anterior and curve and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the former measures about two inches, and the latter three. In the body the vagina is flattened from before back, so that the form opposite surfaces are in contact; and the upj)er part of the posterior wall is applied to the lower end of the uterus. Its size varies at ^^^^ ^i^e. different spots ;—thus the external orifice, which is surrounded by * Erectile bodies of the female genital organs, and opening of the vagina (Kobelt). A. Sphincter vaginae muscle, b. Clitoris, c. Nympha. a. Bulb of the vestibule. b. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris, c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris.588 DISSECTIOJs" OF THE PELVIS. Interior lias columns and ruga?. Thi(?kness. Three coats : mucous, muscular, and fibrous also erectile tissue. AIucous membrane. Arteries. Veins are l)lexiform. Nerves. Lymphatics. the constrictor vaginse muscle, is the narrowest part ; the middle portion is the largest; and the upper end is intermediate in dimen- sions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the side, the position of the uterus in the anterior wall, instead of at the extremity of the passage, may be remarked ; and the tube may be seen to extend farther on the posterior than the anterior lip of the OS uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a longi- tudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse ridges or rugse pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina is thicker in front round the urethra than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall has a muscular coat, composed of un- striped fibres both longitudinal and circular, which is thin above, and increases in thickness below. This is lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered externally by a layer of connective tissue containing a dense network of veins. The prominence of the columns is mainly due to a collection of cavernous tissue between the mucous and muscular layers. The mucous memhrane is continued through the lower aperture to join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many'mucous glands open on the surface, especially at the upper part. Blood-vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from the vaginal and uterine branches of the internal iliac (p. 565). The veins ioim a plexus around the vagina, as well as in the genital organs, and ojDen into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves^ see page 571. The lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels to the glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE UTERUS. Uterus: The uterus or v/omb is formed chiefly of unstriated muscular fibres. Its ofiice is to receive the ovum, and to contain the developing foetus. form; This viscus in the virgin state is somewhat pear-shaped, the body being flattened (fig. 194), and the narrow end below. <iimensions; Before impregnation the uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume always exceed the measure- ments here given. upper end; The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum : the name fundus is given to the part of the organ above the attachment of the Fallopian tubes (c). the lower The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a transverse sinaii and aperture of communication between the uterus and the vagina, has an named os uteri (as tincce) : its margins or lips (labia) are smooth, openingANATOMY OF UTERUS. 589 and anterior and posterior in situation, but the hinder one is the longer and thinner. Towards the lower part the uterus is con- stricted ; and the smaller portion is called the nech {cervix uteri; h): it neck; is nearly an inch in length, and gradually tapers towards the extremity, where it projects into the vagina, being enclosed by this tube to a greater extent behind than in front. The body (a) of the uterus is more convex posteriorly than ante- body; riorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except at the lower part in front (about half an inch), where it is connected to the l:»ladder. To parts each side the parts contained in the broad fold of the peritoneum liac. ' " are attached (fig. 182), viz., the Fallopian tube at the top (m), the round ligament (n) rather below and before the last, and the ovary (l) and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut is to be Open the made along the front from the fundus to the os nteri ; and then some of the thick wall is to be removed on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity. The thickness of. the uterine wall is greatest opposite the middle its thiek- of the body. It is greater at the centre than at the extremities of the fundus (fig. 194), the wall becoming thinner towards the attach- ment of the Fallopian tubeis. Interior of the uterus (tig. 194), Within the uterus is a small space, in tiic which is divided artificially into two—that of the body, and that of the neck. The space occupying the body of the viscus (c) is triangular in is a trian- form, and compressed from before back. Its base is at the fundus, ti[e'^bodv where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged into the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed downwards, and joins the cavity in the neck by a narrowed circular part, isthmus, which below; ' may be narrower than the opening of the uterus into the vagina. The space within the neck id) terminates below at the os uteri, and a and is continuous above with the cavity within the body. It is shaped" larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, and is ^j^^^j^^,^}. somewhat flattened like the cavity of the body. Along both the ante- rior and the posterior wall is a longitudinal ridge ; and other ridges (rugce) are directed obliquely from these on each side : this appear- ance has been named arbor vitce uterinus. In the intervals between in the neck the rugse are mucous follicles, which sometimes become distended aj-Lior'^ritif'*'^ with fluid, and give rise to rounded clear sacs. Structure. The dense wall of the uterus is composed of layers uterus is a of unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed with areolar and elastic "rgan? '^^ tissues and large blood-vessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum ; and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period of Tiiere arc gestation to form three strata in the Avail of the uterus, viz., ^. external, internal, and middle :— The external layer contains fibres which are mostly transverse ; external, but at the fundus and sides they are oblique, and are more marked than along the middle of the organ. At the sides the fibres con-DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 590 interna], and middle. Mucons membrane. verge towards the broad ligament; some are inserted into the sub- ]3eritoneal fibrous tissue; and others are continued into the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles round the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet at the middle line. At the neck of the uterus they are arranged in a transverse direction. The middle or intervening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining of the uterus is continued into the vagina at Fif?. 194.* Vessels are large. Arteries. Veins. Nerves. Lympha- tics : two sets. Round liga- ment ends in groin : one end, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the body it is thin and soft, of a reddish-white colour, smooth, and closely adherent. In the cervix it is stronger, and presents the folds before referred to. The blood-vessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the uterine and ovarian branches (p. 566). The veins correspond with the arteries ; they are of large size, and form plexuses in the uterus (p. 566). The nerves are derived from the sympathetic (p. 571), and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus. Lymphatics. One set accompanies the uterine vessels to the glands on the iliac artery. Another set issues from the fundus, enters the broad ligament, and accompanies the ovarian artery to the glands on the aorta : the last are joined by lymphatics of the ovary and Fallopian tube. Bound ligament of the uterus (fig. 182, n). This firm cord suj^ ports the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament, and partly in the inguinal canal. It is about five inches in length, Interior of the uterus, with a posterior view of the oroad ligament and the uterine appendages, a. Body, and b, neck of the uterus, c. Cavity of the body, and d, of the neck. e. Fallopian tube, and /, its trumpet-shaped end. g. The fimbria attached to the ovary, h. Ovary, i. Ligament of the ovary. Jc. Parovarium.STEUCTUEE OF OVAEY. 591 and is attached to the upper end of the nterus close below and in attaciunent front of the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneum ^^^^^^' accompanies it in the inguinal canal, and remains pervious sometimes for a short distance. The ligament is composed of unstriated muscular fibres, derived how fonnsd from the uterus, together with vessels and areolar tissue. OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES, Ovary (fig. 194, h). The ovaries are two bodies, corresponding Ovavy: with the testes of the male. They are contained in the broad liga- Position; ments of the uterus, one in each. Each ovary is of an oval form, and somewhat compressed in one form and direction. It is of a whitish colour, with either a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable ; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half as much in width, and dimensions a third of an inch in thickness. Its weight varies from one to two and weight, drachms. The ovary is placed at the back of the broad ligament, and is Jittached to that membrane by one margin, where the vessels enter the organ at the hilum. The other margin and both surfaces are free. One end (the upper in the natural position) is rounded, and is connected with one of the fimbrioe (g) at the mouth of the Fallo- pian tube. The opposite extremity is narrowed, and is fixed to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord,—the ligament of the ovary (^), below the level of the Fallopian tube and round ligament. Structure. The ovary consists of a stroma enclosing small sacs structure : named Graafian vesicles, which contain the ova, and the whole is surrounded by a fibrous tunic. The peritoneum invests it except at the attached margin. The fibrous coat is continuous with the contained stroma. Some- a fibrous times a yellow spot (corpus luteum), or some cicatrices, may be seen in this covering. Stroma (fig. 195). The substance of the ovary is spongy, vascular, and fibrous. At the centre tho fibres radiate from the hilum towards tlie circumference. But at the exterior is a granular material (cortical layer) which contains very many small fol- licles, about Y^o-th of an inch in size —the nascent Graafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles or ovisacs (fig. 195) are round and transparent sacs, containing fiuid, and scattered through the stroma of the ovary below the cortical layer. During the child-bearing period some * Ovary during the child-bearing period laii open (Farre). a. Graafian vesicles in different stages of growth, b. Phcated body remaining after the escape of the ovum. coat; Fig. 195.* vesicles.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 592. number and size. Sliedding an ovum : corpus luteum. Artery; are larger than the rest (a) ; and of this larger set ten to thirty, or more, may be counted at the same time, which vary in size from a pin's head to a small pea. The largest are situate at the circum- ference of the, organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the ruptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corjms luteum, which finally changes into a cicatrix (6). Blood-vessels and nerves. The ovarian artery pierces the ovary at the attached border, and its branches run in zigzag lines through the stroma, to which and the Graafian vesicles they are distributed. The veins begin in the texture of the ovary, and after escaping from its substance, form a plexus [imm/piniform) within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Aiipendage to ovary : situation: form; structure. Parovarium or organ of Rosenmiiller {epoophoron of Walcleyer ; fig, 194, Ic). On holding up the broad Hgament of the uterus to the light, a collection of small tortuous tubules will be seen between the ovary and the Fallopian tube. These are the remains of the upper part of the Wolffian body of the foetus, and correspond to the vasa efferentia of the testicle in the male. The mass is about one inch broad, with its base to the Fallopian tube, and apex to the attached border of the ovary. The small tubes are from twelve to twenty in number ; at the wider end they are joined more or less perfectly by a tube crossing the rest (the remnant of the Wolffian duct), which is prolonged some- times a short way into the broad ligament. Fallopian tube: lengtli; and form ; it is dilated externally, and fimbri- ated ; size of the canal is least at the ends. A muscular structure : fibres pro- longed from uterus. Fallopian tubes (fig. 194, e). Two in number, one on each side, they convey the ova from the ovaries to the uterus. Each is about four inches in length ; cord-like at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, it increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a wide extremity (/), like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated end is fringed, and the pieces are called fimhrioi. When the fimbriated end is floated out in water, one of the processes (the ovarian fimbria; g) may be seen to be fixed to the distal end of the ovary. In the centre of the fimbria is a groove leading to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained space and its small aperture into the uterus can be observed. Its canal varies in size at diff"erent spots; the narrowest part is at the orifice into the uterus (ostium uterinum), where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle ; towards the outer end it increases a little, but it is rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture (ostium abdominale). Structure. This tube has the same structure as the uterus with which it is connected, viz., a muscular layer covered externally by pei-itoneum, and lined by mucous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer ; both these are continuous with similar strata in the wall of the uterus.593 BLADDER AND UEETHRA IN FEMALE. TJie mucous membrane forms longitudinal folds, particularly at the Mucous outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued into the mucous lining of the uterus, but at the outer end it joins ous with the peritoneum. peritoneum. The blood-vessels and nerves are furnished from those supplied to Vessels, the ovarv and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the form of the female bladder Anatomy of have been detailed in the description of the relations of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 561). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 575). Dissection, To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and re- Preparation move the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the muscular til)res. After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has been op^"^ it- learnt, they are to be slit open along the fore part. Urethra. The length and the relations of the excretory tube Urethra: . rn-i length; are given at p. 561. The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter size ; of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder : near the external aperture is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of not being surrounded by resistant it can be structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the J||iated corresponding passage in the male. Structure. Like the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of blood-vessels, and by mus- male.^^ cular hbre. The muscular layer extends the whole length of the urethra. Its Muscular ,, . T T . , , 9 . . - coat of cir- libres are circular, corresponding with those m the prostatic enlarge- cular nbres. ment of the other sex, and continuous above with the middle layer of the bladder. , In the perineal ligament this stratum is covered by the fibres of the deep transverse muscle (p. 440). The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the floor of the _ '. , a fold in canal, resembles the median crest in the male urethra (p. 578). the floor; Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles ; and towards the follicles and inner end are tubular mucous glands, the apertures of which are arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular tissues ^g^™^^^^^ lies close beneath the mucous membrane, as in the male. Dissection. The rectum may be prepared for examination by dis- Pi-eparation ,. . . T , , , -1 • 1 • T of ]-ectum. tending it with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering and the areolar tissue from its surface. Rectum. The structure of the rectum is similar in the two sexes ; J^^^*"™. ,^i^'' ' that of the and the student may use the description in the Section on the male, viscera of the male pelvis (p. 584).DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. 694 Section VII. INTERNAL MUSCLES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Two muscles. Define the muscles and the levator ani Pyrifovmis : the pelvis insertion relations with parts around : use as an external rotator of liip-joint. Obturator internus is bent ovei ischium ; origin 111 Ihe peh'i^^ arf'hing of its tendons over the iiip-bone; Two muscles, tlie pyriformis and obturator internus, liave tlieir origin within the cavity of the jjelvis. Dissection. Take away any fascia or areohir tissue which may remain on the muscles ; and define their exit from the pelvis,—the pyriformis passing through the great, and the obturator through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. On the right side the dissector ma}^ look to the attachment of the levator ani muscle to the pubic part of the hip-bone. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to the great trochanter of the femur. The muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises by three slips from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between the anterior aper- tures, and from the surface of the bone external to those holes ; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the hip-bone forming the upper boundary of the large sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the trochanter (p. 644). The anterior surface is in contact with the sacral plexus, vrith the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels, and with the rectum on the left side. The opposite sm-face rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip-bone, the gluteal vessels and the supe- rior gluteal nerve being between ; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. Action. The pyriformis belongs to the group of external rotators of the hip-joint; and its use will be given with the description of the rest of the muscle in the dissection of the buttock (p. 644). The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE has its Origin in the pelvis, and insertion at the great trochanter of the femur, like the preced- ing ; but the part outside forms an acute angle with that inside the pelvis. The muscle arises \>j a broad fleshy attachment from the obtura- tor membrane, except a small part below ; from the pelvic fascia covering its surface ; slightly from the bone anterior to the thyroid hole, but from all the smooth inclined surface of the pelvis behind and above that aperture, except opposite the small sacro-sciatic foramen, where a thin layer of fat separates the fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres are directed backwards and downwards, and end in four or five tendinous pieces, which turn over the edge of the hip-bone corresponding with the small sciatic notch. Outside theARTICULATIONS OF SACEUM. 595 pelvis the tendons blend into one, which is inserted into the great insertion; trochanter (p. 649). The muscle is in contact by one surface with the wall of the relations of pelvis and the obturator membrane; by the other surface with the pef^jjf obturator part of the pelvic fascia, and towards its lower border with cavity; the pudic vessels and nerve. Action. The muscle also rotates out the hip-joint (p. 649). GoccYGBUS MUSCLE. The position and the relations of this muscle Coccygeus may now be studied from within : it is described at p. 548. muscle. LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. The following are the articulations between the bones of tlie Outline of pelvis :—The several pieces of the sacrum and coccyx are united lations!^"^^' with one another. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at its apex to the coccyx, and laterally to the two hip-bones. And the hip-bones are connected together in front, as well as to the spinal column behind. Union of Pieces op Sacrum and Coccyx. So long as the pieces of the sacrum and coccyx remain moveable they are articulated separate^' as in the other vertebrae by an anterior and a posterior common liga- ment, with an intervertebral disc for the bodies ; and by other ligaments for the neural arch and processes (p. 380). After the sacral vertebrse have coalesced, only rudiments of the ancU'oinccl. ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised ; and when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, their ligaments disappear. Lumbo-Sacral Articulation. The base of the sacrum is Sacruin articulated with the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to lumbar'' those uniting one vertebra to another (p. 380) ; and by one special "^eitebra. ligament—the lateral lumbo-sacral. Dissection. For the best manner of bringing these different liga- Dissection, ments into view-, the dissector may consult the directions given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebraj (p. 380). The common ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an By liga- anterior and a posterior, with an intervening fil)ro-cartilaginous iu the ver- substance. Between the neural arches lie the liganienta subflava, ^ebra-, and between the spines the supra- and interspinous bands. The articular processes are united by capsular ligaments with synovial membranes. The lateral lumbosacral ligament is a variable bundle of fibres, 'ind ]>y a which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse M^ral process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral mass at the base ^^^^'l- of .the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the sacro-iliac articulation. Sacro-Coccyoeal Articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are Union of united at the centre by a fibro-cartilage, and l)y an anterior and^Q^^^,'^^'^'"^^ a posterior ligament. There are also latertil and interarticular liga- ments on each side. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. When Dissection. Q Q 2DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 596 An anterior and a posterior ligament, with a fibre cartilage. A band between articular, and trans- verse pro- cesses. Motion. Union of sacrum and hip-bone. To dissect tlie liga- ments. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligament: a special long band. A layer of cartilage on each bone. Use of joint is to render pelvis elastic. the areolar tissue has been removed altogether from the hones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fibres that pass between the bones in front of the fibro-cartilage. The posterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the margin of the lower opening of the sacral canal, but narrows as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fibro-cartilage resembles that between the bodies of the other vertebrae, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Interarticular ligaments. The cornua of the sacrum and coccyx do not usually form joints, but are united by a ligamentous band on each side. The lateral ligament passes on each side between the projections representing the transverse processes of the last sacral and first coccygeal vertebrae. Movement. While the coccyx remains unossified to the sacrum, a slight antero-posterior movement will take place between them. Sacro-Iliac Articulation. The irregular surfaces by which the sacrum and the hip-bone articulate are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are farther connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which the hip-bone remains. The thin anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar tissue. The small sacro-sciatic ligament will be brought into view by removing the fleshy fibres of the coccygeus ; and the large ligament is dissected with the lower limb. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. The 'posterior sacro-iliac ligament is very strong, and consists of bundles of fibres which pass obliquely from the rough part of the inner side of the ilium above the auricular surface to the depressions on the back of the first and second pieces of the sacrum. A distinct band, longer and more superficial than the rest, runs from the posterior superior iliac spine to the third and fourth pieces of the sacrum : this is named the long posterior ligament. Articular cartilage. This may be seen after the sacro-sciatic and ilio-lumbar ligaments have been examined, by opening the articula- tion and separating the bones. It covers the articular surfaces of both sacrum and ilium, but is much thicker on the sacrum. Its surface is generally uneven ; and the intermediate cleft is sometimes partly interrupted by transverse fibres uniting the two layers. Mechanism. There is scarcely any appreciable movement in this articulation, owing to the tightness with which the two bones are bound together by ligaments, and the irregular form of the articular surfaces, which are consequently unable to glide over one another. In the erect posture the sacrum is suspended between the two hip- bones by the thick posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and the upper arch of the pelvis is thereby rendered less rigid than would be the597 SACKO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS case if it were formed of continuous bone. The sacro-iliac articula- tion thus serves to give elasticity to the pelvis, and to diminish the effect of shocks passing to the spine. Two SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS pass from the side of the sacrum Sacro-sciatic and coccyx to the hinder border of the hip-bone, across the space are two: between those bones at the back of the pelvis : they are named great and small. The great on posterior ligament (fig. 196, a) is attached above to large, the posterior inferior iliac spine, and to the side of the sacrnni and coccyx ; and below to the inner margin of the ischial tu- berosity, sending forwards a prolongation {falciform p-ocess) along the ramus of the ischium. It is wide at the sacrum, and gets narrower towards the lower end ; but it is somewhat ex- panded again at the tuberosity. The relations of this band are seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 650). The small or anterior ligament (fig. 196, h) is attached in- ternally by a wide piece to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is united with the origin of the preceding band. The fibres are directed outwards, and are inserted as a narrow band into the ischial spine of the hip-bone. Its deep surface is blended with the coccygeus ; and it may be looked upon as being a fibrous portion of that muscle. Above it is the large sacro-sciatic foramen; and below it is the small foramen of the same name, which is bounded by the two ligaments. By their position these ligaments convert into two foramina (sacro- apertures sciatic) the large sacro-sciatic excavation in the dried bones : the them^-^ ^"^ openings, and the things they give passage to, are described with the buttock (p. 650). Use. The sacro-sciatic ligaments, by holding down the lower part ^^e. of the sacrum, serve to prevent that bone from rotating at the sacro- iliac articulation, under the influence of the weight pressing on its upper end in the erect position. The iLio-LUMBAR LIGAMENT is a stroug triangular band, which iiio-lumbar springs by its narrow end from the extremity of the transverse pro- ^^^^^'^^^^ • cess of the fifth lumbar vertebra. Directed outwards and somewhat backwards, it spreads out to be inserted into the iliac crest for about an inch, opposite the back part of the iliac fossa. To the upper border of the ligament the anterior layer of the fascia luni- * Sacro-sciatic ligaments : a. Large, and h, small.DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. 598 Symphysis pubis. Anterior ligament. borum is attached ; and its posterior surface is covered by tbe quad- ratus liimborum. Use. This ligament supports the npright moveable portion of the spinal column, and resists the tendency of the last lumbar vertebra to slip forwards over the inclined base of the sacrum. Pubic Articulation (symphysis pubis; fig. 197, a). The two pubic bones are united by an interpubic disc, by ligamentous fibres in front and above, and by a strong subpubic ligament. The anterior pubic ligament is composed of interlacing fibres Fig. 197.* Avliich are mixed with fibres of the tendon of the external oblique muscle. There is not any definite jDOsterior band ; but the jDeriosteum is thickened by a few scattered fibres. The siqjerior ligamentous fibres fill the interval between the bones above the disc. The subpubic ligament (ligamentum arcuatum; fig. 197, f^) is a strong triangular band occupying the angular interval between the pubic rami at the lower part of the symphysis. Its apex is con- tinuous with the fibrous portion of the interpubic disc ; its base is free and concave, and forms the summit of the subjDubic arch. * Ligaments of the symphysis pubis, thyroid hole, and acetabukim. a. Anterior ligament of the symphysis. b. Obturator membrane. c. Inter- pubic disc, with a slit in the middle, d. Subpubic ligament, e. Surface of the acetabulum covered with cartilage. /. Fatty substance in the acetabulum (gland of Havers), g. Cotyloid ligament, which is cut where it forms part of the transverse band over the notch, h. Deep part of the ligament over the •cotyloid notch. FeAV libres behind, and abov( Subpubic ligament.699 INTERPUBIC DISC. Dissection. The disc will be best seen by making a transverse How to section of the bones, which will show the disposition of the anterior ligament of the articulation, and the thickness of the plate, with its toothed mode of attachment to the bone ; and when another oppor- tunity offers, a vertical section may be made. The interpubic disc consists of a layer of cartilage on each side, Interpubif; which is firmly adherent to the ridged surface of the bone, and a '^^^^^' fibrous portion in the middle. The fibrous part is thickest in front ; and at the upper and back portion of the symi3hysis there is deft in it. generally a fissure, produced by the absorption of the fibrous sub- stance. In some bodies the fissure extends through the whole of the disc, so as to divide it completely into two. The thin obturator membrane (fig. 197, h) closes almost ohturatoi entirely the thyroid foramen, and is composed of fibres crossing in "'embrane " closes ail different directions. It is attached to the bony margin of the fora- aperture men, except alcove where the obturator vessels pass through ; and at the lower and inner part of the aperture it is connected to the pelvic aspect of the hip-bone. The surfaces of the ligament give attachment to the obturator muscles. Branches of the obturator vessels perforate it.ARTERIES .OF THE ABDOMEN. 600 TABLE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. / 1. Phrenic . . Superior capsi\lar. ''Coronary coeliacaxis* hepatic ^splenic / (Esophageal • (gastric. /-Gastro-duodenal . • •) pyloric I left hepatic branch bright hepatic branch r pancreatic J vasa brevia ■ j left gastro-epiploic si^lenic. / Right gastro-epiploic ' \ superior pancreatico-duodenal. Cystic. 3. superior mesenteric 4. middle cap- sulai Inferior pancreatico-duodenal intestinal 4;. -j ileo-colic ' • right colic I middle colic. 5. renal . (3. spermatic 7. infei Inferior capsular. nferior T Left colic mesenteric*- sigmoid V^superior hfemorrhoidal. S. lumbar 9. middle sa- cral* 10. common iliac . External iliac iEpigastric circumflex Parietal branches 'internal iliac rPubic J cremasteric I muscular I cutaneous. Ilio-lumbar lateral sacral. gluteal sciatic l)udic \ obturator / Superficial (deep. I Coccygeal 1 comes nervi -J dici I muscular V anastomotic. isclii; Inferior hsemor- [ rhoidal i superficial perineal ' transverse perineal artery of the bull) artery of corpus cavernosum dorsal artery. r Iliac \ pubic. visceral X branches /Middle hsemor- I rhoidal -J vesical I vaginal 1,^ uterine. * The branches marked with an asterisk are single.601 VEINS OF THE ABDOMEI^. TABLE OF THE VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN. Visceral HsemoiTlioidal plexus vesico-prostatic /Internal iliac 1. Common branches .1 plexus uterine vaginal. Obturator pudic . parietal , 1 tranches . \ sciatic . ■ Vesical dorsal of the pen it 'Veins of corpus caverno- I sum J of the bulb j transverse perineal j supei-flcial perineal inferior lifemorrhoidal. fcoccygeal J comes nervi ischiadici ' 1 muscular I anastomotic. gluteal lateral sacral. TEpig;) circui 2. lumbar 3. right spermatic 4. renal . . . 5. right capsular 6. diaphragmatic 7. liepatic veins, which bring blood from the vena portee. jistric external iliac . -| circumflex I, iliac, iiio-lumbar middle sacral into the left. Right left. / Capsular t spermatic. Vena POBT^ Splenic superior mesenteric coronary pyloric cystic. Splenic j branches I vasa breviA I pancreatic lef gastro- ^ epiploic. (Left colic -Inferior me>g™5j;^ senteric • j ^^^^ . \, rhoidal. intestinal ileo-colic right colic middle colic right gastro- epiploic pancreatico- ^ duodenal.SPINAL NERVES OF THE ABDOMEN. 602 TABLE OF THE SPINAL NERVES IN THE ABDOMEN. Lumbar SPINAL NERVES divide into Posterior branches yInternal ^external . Muscular. Muscular cutaneous { ilio-inguinal To integuments of the groin. genito-crural / Genital branch (crural branch. Anterior branches: of these the four first I external cuta- f To integuments of end in the lu-mbar neons . . ^ the thigh. PLExas, which j » supplies . . I I anterior crural . -] I j Branches outside the / are noticed in the [ pelvis . . .\ thigh. /Branches inside the/To the iliacus muscle pelvis . . . (to the femoral artery. obturator Accessory. rother otfsets are de- ' scribed in the I tliigh. Sacral spinal nerves divide into 'Posterior branches (^"f^;^!"^' unite together and j 1'^.,^,^^ give off. . filaments. f Terminal branches i Theanteriorbranclies i of the four superior ! unite with the I lumbo-sacral in the { SACRAL PLEXUS, 'v and furnish . , collateral \ branches Great sciatic \pudic . Superior gluteal inferior gluteal small sciatic described in the lower limb. Inferior haemorrhoidal \ perineal dorsal of penis. Superficial, internal and external j muscular ^to the bulb noticed in the lower limb. perforating cutaneous to pyriformis to obturator internus and superior"^ gemellus C in the to quadratus femoris and inferior C v,,,+4-q,.]- gemellus ) visceral to levator ani to coccygeus to external sphincter. The other saeral nerves are described at p. 568.NERYES OF THE ABDOMEN. COS TABLE OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE ABDOMEN. Solar Plexus * fur- nishes the following plexuses ' Diaphragn)atic coelittc superior mesenteric suprarenal renal . aortic spermatic infei'ior mesenteric Coronary i)lexus j hepatic ^Pyloric ht gastro-epiplo'ic icre cystic. • l^pancreatico-duodena / Left gastro-epiploic \ pancreatic. .splenic Oflsets to small and large intestine. Spermatic plexus, lilaments to the. Hypogastric. / Offsets to the large intestine superior hicmorrhoidal. f Great splanchnic nerves This receives small splanchnic nerves l^offsets of right pneuino-gastric. Inferior haemorrlioidal HvPOGASTRIC Pj.EXUSfi ends in the pelvic vesical . plexus on each side, > which gives the fol- lowing plexuses . . | ^^^^^.j,^^ s vaginal. •i 'Prostatic cavernous deferential to vesiculse seminale^. Gangliated cord of the sympathetic in the ab- domen supplies . 'External branches iternal To the lumbar and sacral spinal nerves. [To aortic plexus I to hypogastric plexus - to join round middle sacral artery 1 between the cords on the coccyx, in the ganglion impar. t This i» .j„i„ea .,b„ve by ■ {^f^X I,„„,.a,. «.„g,ia. PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE IN THE ABDOMEN. Pneumo-gastric .T>j(,i 4. / Coronary branches to the back of the stomach ■ ■ ■ I filaments to join the coeliac and splenic plexust 1 j.^ r Coronary branches to the front of the stomac'.i ■ \ branches to the hepatic plexus.CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. Section I. THE FEONT OF THE THIGH. Directions. Position of the body. Objects on the surface. Limits of the tliigh above. Hollow of Scarpa's space. Groove over femoral artery. Position of great trochanter. Head of the femur. All tlie parts described in Section I. (to p. 637) are to be examined before the time for turning the body arrives. Position. During the dissection of the front of the thigh the body lies on the back, with the buttocks resting on the edge of the table, and with a block of suitable size beneath the loins. The lower limb should be supported in a half-bent position by a stool beneath the foot, and should be rotated outwards to make evident a hollow at the top of the thigh. Surface-marMng. Before any of the integument is removed from the limb, the student is to observe the chief eminences and hollows on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and abdomen is marked, in front, by the firm band of Poupart's ligament reaching from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the pubis. On the outer side, the separation is indicated by the convexity of the iliac crest of the hip- bone, which subsides behind in the sacrum and coccyx. Internally is the projection of the x^ubis, from which the bony margin of the subpubic arch may be traced backwards, forming the inner boundary of the limb, to the ischial tuberosity. On the anterior aspect of the thigli, and close to Poupart's liga- ment, is a slight hollow, corresponding with the triangular space of Scarpa, in which the larger vessels of the limb are contained; and extending thence obliquely towards the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situation of the femoral artery beneath. The position of the arterial trunk may be ascertained by a line from the centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine to the inner condyle of the femur. At the outer side of the hip, from three to four inches below and behind the anterior part of the iliac crest, the well-marked projec- tion of the great trochanter of the femur will be recognised. In a thin body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards and outwards, while the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, or the fingers behind the great trochanter.605 ANATOMY OF SUPERFICIAL PARTS. At the knee the outline of the several bones entering into the Bony formation of the joint may he traced with ease. In front of the of knee^:^'^ joint, when it is half-bent, the rounded prominent patella may be patella; perceived ; this bone is firmly fixed while the limb is kept in the bent position, but is moved with great freedom when the joint is extended, so as to relax the muscles inserted into it. On each side condyles ' of the of the patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, that on femur; the inner side being the larger. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the j)atella while the joint is half bent, they will be con- ducted to the tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a slight of^iuftibir hollow between it and the femur. Behind the joint is a slight depression over the situation of the ham The ham or popliteal space ; and on its sides are firm boundaries, which are formed by the tendons (liamstrings) of the flexor muscles of the knee. Dissection. The limb being placed as before directed, the student Dissection, begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. At first the integument is to be reflected only from the hollow on Take up the front of the thigh below Poupart's ligament. An incision about ?op ofttu'^ • four inches in length, and only skin deep, is to be made from the thigii. pubis along the inner border of the thigh. At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect; and at the upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the ilium. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the superjicial fascia, forms a ^^"^[^"^^'^^ general investment for the limb, and is constructed of a network of areolar tissue, with fat or adipose sul)stance amongst the meshes. {[JJ^^g^j. As a part of the common covering of the body, it is continuous with that of the neighbouring regions ; consequently it may be followed inwards to the- scrotum or the labium according to the sex, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in difi'erent bodies, ^J^J^g"^^'^ according to the quantity of fat in it; and when well developed it may be divided into separate layers. Its relations will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. To reflect the superficial fascia, incisions similar to To raise the those made in the skin are to be employed ; and the separation from fasciaf"^^^^ the subjacent structures is to be begun below, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. Tlie layer of fat may be thrown outwards readily by a few touches of the knife, when the superficial vessels and inguinal lymphatic glands will come into view. The subcutaneous layer decreases in thickness, and becomes more fibrous near Poupart's ligament; and on its under aspect it has a fascia. smooth and membranous surface. It conceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart's ligament.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. G06 Dissection IJissection (fig. 198). The inguinal glands and the superficial vessels are to be next cleaned by the removal of any surrounding fat; but the student is to be careful not to destroy a deeper, very thin layer of areolar tissue wliich is beneath them, and is visible on the inner side of the centre of the limb. Three sets of vessels are Fig. 198.* to see the to be dissected out:—One set (artery and vein) is directed inwards \ esseis to the pubes, and is named external pudic ; another, superficial epigastric, ascends over Pouj)art's ligament; and the third, the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer j)art of the limb. The large vein towards the inner side of the thigh, to which the branches converge, is the internal saphenous. lympLaties, Some of the small lymphatic vessels may be traced from one inguinal gland to another. * Dissection of the superficial parts of the thigh (Illustrations of Dissec- tions). Vessels: a. Internal saphenous vein. b. Superficial pudic. c. Superficial epigastric, d. Superficial circumflex iliac, e. Inguinal glands. /. Saphenous opening. Nerves : 1. Ilio-inguinal. 2, External cutaneous. 3. (jrenito-crural. 4. Middle cutaneous. Small unnamed vessels accompany the different nerves to the integuments.607 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND GLANDS, A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the inner side and nerves, of the saphenous vein, close to the pubis ; and a branch of the genito-crural nerve may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessels. The small cutaneous arteries at the top The arteries of the thigh are the first branches of the femoral trunk, they pierce {e^io,.*^^^ the deep fascia (fascia lata), and are distributed to the integuments and the glands of the groin and neighbourhood. The EXTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY (superior; fig. 198, b) crosses the One external spermatic cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integuments of artery; the jDenis and scrotum, where it anastomoses with offsets of the in- ternal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch (inferior ; p. 618) pierces the fascia another lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the [j^g fascia scrotum. In the female both branches supply the labium pudendi. The SUPERFICIAL EPIGASTRIC ARTERY (c) passcs OVer Poupart's Superficial ligament to the abdomen (p. 444), and communicates with branches epigastric, of the deep epigastric artery. The SUPERFICIAL CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY (cl) is the Smallest of Superficial the three branches : appearing as two or more pieces at the upper iiiac^'"^*^^ part of the thigh near the iliac crest, it is distributed in the integu- ments : it supplies an offset with the external cutaneous nerve. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its com- veins join panion vessel, and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein, j^^^^^^^^'^" with the exception of that with the inferior pudic artery : these veins will be noticed subsequently (p. 608). The SUPERFICIAL INGUINAL GLANDS (e) are arranged in two lines, inguinal One set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament ; and the two sets, other is situate along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or femoral group the glands are larger than in the upper, and the lymphatic vessels from the surface of the lower limb enter them, which The upper or abdominal group is joined by the lymphatics of the Jufftrent penis, by those of the surface of the abdomen, and by those of the lympiiatics. buttock. The - glands vary much in number and size ; and not unfrequently some of the longitudinal set by the side of the vein are blended together. Cribriform fascia. Beneath, and to the inner side of, the internal Cribriform saphenous vein there is a thin layer of areolar tissue, which is some- ^^^^"^ times described as a special deeper layer of the superficial fascia. This •'^^^ areolar , 1 , -1 1 o ' niembrane stratum is continued across the aperture in the deep fascia „ver (saphenous opening; fig. 198,/) through which the vein tlis-^p^Jj^^"""'^ appears ; and being there perforated by many large lymphatic vessels, as well as by the saphenous vein, the name cribriform fascia has been given to this part. The cribriform fascia is closely united to the outer margin of the saphenous opening; and it is also ad- herent to the subjacent crural sheath of the vessels in the aperture. In a hernial protrusion through the saphenous opening, the cribri- relation to form fascia is stretched and pushed forwards by the tumour, and ifg^niT^ forms one of the coverings. Dissection. After having observed the disposition of the superficial Dissection fascia near Poupart's ligament, the student may proceed to ex- ofthethi*"hG08 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Take away the skin, and follow saphenous vein. Seek cutane- ous nerves of front of thigh, and on side of tlie knee. Superficial veins. Internal saphenous A'ein in thish pierces fascia lata to join the femoral. Veins join- ino- it: in ay be three trunks at the top of the thigh. amine tlie remainder of the subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together with the vessels and nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of the thigh, a cut is to be carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee-joint, to rather below the tubercle of the tibia. At the extremity of this a trans- verse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but this is to reach farthest on the inner side. The skin may be reflected in flaps inwards and outwards; and as it is raised from the front of the knee, a superficial bursa between it and the patella will be opened. The saphenous vein is to be first traced out in the fat as far as the skin is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it the student sliould be careful of branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh (fig. 199) are to be sought in the fat, with small cutaneous arteries, in the following positions :—On the outer margin, below the upper third, is placed the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the limb, below the upper third, lie the two branches of the middle cutaneous nerve. At the inner margin are the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve,—one small ofiset appearing near the upper part of the thigh, one or more about half-way down, and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third. On the inner side of the knee three other cutaneous nerves are to be looked for :—One, a branch of the great saphenous, is directed outwards over the patella. Another, the trunk of the great saphe- nous nerve, lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to the lower edge of the surface now dissected. And the third is a terminal branch (posterior) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Vessels. All the cutaneous veins on the anterior and inner as- pects of the thigh are collected into one ; • and this trunk is named saphenous from its manifest apj^earance on the surface. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 198, ci) is the cutaneous trunk of the inner side of the lower limb, and extends from the foot to the top of the thigh. In the part of its course now dis- sected, the vessel lies inferiorly somewhat behind the knee-joint; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it pierces the fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, and enters the deep vein (femoral) of the limb. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally ; and near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the arteries in that situation, viz., external pudic (6), superficial ejDigas- tric (c), and circumflex iliac {d), terminate in it. Towards the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and back of the thigh are frequently united into one branch, which enters the saphenous trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata ; and some- times those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way. When this arrangement exists three large veins will be present on the front of the thigh, near the saphenous opening.CUTANEOUS NERYES. 609 On the side of the knee tha vein receives a communicating branch from the deep veins. Some unnamed cutaneous oHeries are distributed to the integu- Cutaneous ments along with the nerves ; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 623) accompanies the saphenous nerve and its branches near the knee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigli are derived from cutaneous Fig. 199. branches of the lumbar plexus, and in greater number on the inner than the outer side. Ilio-inguinal. This nerve (p. 542) i^ small, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring (fig. 198,^) ; it supplies the scrotum, and ends on the adjacent part of the thigh, internal to the saphenous vein. Genito-crural. The cruralhranch of tlu^ nerve {]}. 542) pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament (fig. 199,^) rather ex- ternal to the line of the femoral artery. After or before the nerve has become su- perficial it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve ; and it extends on the an- terior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis. Occasionally this branch is of large size, and takes the place of the external cuta- neous nerve on the outer side of the limb. TheEXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE (p. 542) ramifies on the outer aspect of the limb (fig. 199,^). At first it is contained in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior -and a posterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or three others, which arch backwards to supply the integuments of tlie outer side of the thigh as low as the middle. The anterior branch appears on the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's liga- ment and is continued to the knee below the other ; it distributes branches laterally, but those towards the posterior surface are more numerous, and larger. Middle cutaneous (fig. 199,^). The nerve of the centre of the Middle thigh is a cutaneous offset of the anterior crural (p. 628), and divides into two branches. It is transmitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches reaches the knee. *" Cutaneous nerves on the front of the tliigli. 1. External cutaneous. 2. Middle cutaneous. 3. Internal cutaneous. 4. Internal saphenous, 5. Patellar branch of saphenous. 6. Genito-crural. 7. Ilio-inguinal. 8. Ilio- hypogastric on the belly. K Rlip DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Internal cutaneous the anterior branch extends to knee ; the inner ends in the leg; other small twigs to the thiKh. Internal saphenous jiasses to the leg: a liranch on patella forms a plexus. Clean the fascia lata, and define saphenous opening. Fascia lata surrounds limb. Ilio-tibial band. Apertures in fascia. are continued to the knee. In the fat this nerve is united with the genito-crural and internal cutaneous nerves. Internal cutaneous. Derived from the anterior crural trunk, this nerve is divided into two branches (anterior and posterior) which perforate the fascia at separate places. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the thigh, in the line of the inner intermuscular septum (fig. 199,^), along which it is continued to the knee. This branch is distributed in the lower third of the thigh, as well as over the patella and the inner side of the knee-joint, and is united Avith the patellar branch of the internal saphenous nerve. loosterior hranch (fig. 214,^) perforates the fascia on the inner side of the knee, behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it communicates ; it furnishes offsets to the upper half of the leg, on the inner surface. Other small offsets of the nerve supply the inner side of the thigh, and appear by the side of the saphenous xem. One or two come into view near the top of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh ; and one, larger than the rest, becomes cutaneous where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 199,4), a braucli of the anterior crural, is continued to the foot, but only a small part of it is now visible. It pierces the fascia close below the knee on the inner side ; and after communicating with the inner branch of the internal cutaneous, gives forwards some offsets over the head of the tibia. Finally, it accompanies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. patellar hranch (fig. 199,^) appears on the inner side of the knee above the preceding, and is soon joined by the internal cuta- neous nerve. It ends in many branches over the patella ; these communicate with offsets from the middle and internal cutaneous nerves, and form a network (patellar ])lexus) over the joint. Dissection. Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now removed from the surface of the fascia lata, the cutaneous nerves being thrown aside to be traced afterwards to their trunks. At the upper part of the thigh the cribriform fascia is to be re- moved with great care so as to show the saphenous opening, without injury to the subjacent crural sheath ; and on the other side of the aperture a semilunar border is to be defined by dividing the fibrous bands that unite it to the front of the sheath. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It is of a bluish-white colour, and surrounds the limb with a firm sheath ; but in fat bodies it is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the subcutaneous fat. It is strongest on the outer aspect of the limb, wdiere it receives the insertion of the tensor vaginae femoris, and most of the gluteus maximus muscle. This thickened part {ilio-tibial band) is attached above to the hip-bone, and below to the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and helps to keep the knee-joint straight in standing. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the transmission of theTHE FASCIA LATA. 611 cutaneous nerves and vessels ; and tlie largest liole is near Poupart's ligament, to permit the passage of the internal saphenous vein. Processes prolonged from the deep surface form septa between, Processes Jind fibrous sheaths around, the several muscles. Two of the pro- nuSes.*^^^*' cesses are larger than the rest, and are named outer and inner inter- muscular septa of the thigh ; they are fixed to the femur^ so as to limit on the sides the extensor of the knee. The position of these partitions is marked by white lines on the surface. At the top of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the prominent borders Connected of the pelvis. Thus, it is connected externally with the iliac crest, aY*xJ^per ^ and internally with the body of the pubis and the margin of the ^^y^^^'! pubic arch. Behind, it is joined to the lower end of the sacrum and coccyx ; and in front, to Poupart's ligament between the pubis and tlie iliac crest. Behind the knee-joint the fascia passes un- interruptedly to the leg; but in front of the articulation it blends j^^g^f"^!^^!^^ with an expansion from the extensor muscle, and is continued over tlie joint and the ^^atella, though separated from that bone by a l)arsa, to l^e inserted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. On each side of the patella is a band of almost transverse fibres Bands on (retinaculum), which is attached to and supports the knee-cap. pateiia*^; The outer, thick and strong, it continuous externally with the ilio- tibial band, and joins the insertion of the vastus externus at its attachment to the patella : it guides the patella outwards when the joint is bent. The inner band, of slight strength, is fixed to the inner patella lower than the other, and unites with the insertion of the inner vastus. Directions. The fla23S of skin which were removed from the front Replace of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and nerves, are to be skEf.^^ now stitched together to keep moist the subjacent parts ; and the saphenous opening is to be learnt. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata (fig. 198, /), is an oval Sapiienous aperture, which is situate rather internal to the middle line of the ^.'^j.^^^'^.'^^' thigh. It measures about half an inch in width, and one inch and and' a half in length. Its upper extremity (superior cornu) is at size; Poupart's ligament; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that structure about one inch and a half, and presents (when dissected) a well-defined margin. Internally, the saphenous opening has not any distinct margin, no defined for the membrane here (called the pubic portion of the fascia lata) is inner si'de; continued outwards over the subjacent muscle (pectineus), and behind the femoral vessels, to form the back of the crural sheath. Externally, the fascia lata (iliac part) forms a semilunar border, on outer when detached, the concavity of which is turned downwards and faicifonu inwards. This edge is named from its shape falciform margin of margin, the saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns) ; it is superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the cribriform fascia. Traced upwards, the wMch joins outer edge blends with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of ijgameiitf^ Poupart's ligament) : the upper end of this border, where it is internal and forms to the subjacent femoral vein, has been named the femoral ligament. ^?morai ' J a ligament; R R 2612 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. teuseness^of The rigidity of the margin of the oj^ening is much influenced by varie"?^^^^ the position of the limb : for with the finger beneath the upper part of the falciform border, while the thigh is moved in dilferent directions, this band will be perceived to be most unyielding when the limb is extended and rotated out, and most relaxed when the thigh is bent and turned in the opposite direction, tensmitted Through the lower cornu of the opening the saphenous vein is through the transmitted ; and through the upper part, close to the falciform opening. edge, a femoral hernia projects. Lymphatics and one or two superficial arteries also pass through it. PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. Anatomy of femoral hernia. Dissection for femoral sheath. Defme sheath. Crural arch: attach- ments : form parts closing hollow- ben eath. To understand the anatomy of a hernial protrusion in the thigh, the dissector has to study the undermentioned parts, viz., the crural arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath with its crural canal and ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the abdomen. Dissection, (fig. 200). To examine Poupart's ligament and the membranous sheath round the femoral vessels, the piece of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards by the following incisions :—One cut is to be begun near the upper end of the falciform border, and to be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termination of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. "When the fascia marked out by those incisions has been raised and turned inwards, and the fat removed, the tube on the vessels (crural sheath) will be brought into view as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the crural sheath is to be separated carefully from Poupart's ligament in front, and from Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side. Poupart's ligament or the crural arch (fig. 200, c) is the firm band of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, which stretches from the front of the iliac crest to the pubis (p. 449). When viewed on the surface the arch is curved downwards towards the limb, so long as the fascia lata remains on the thigh. The outer half is oblique. But the inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubis, where it is inserted into the pubic spine and pectineal line of the hip-bone, forming Gimbernat's ligament. The space between the crural arch and the hip-bone is larger in the female than in the male, and is closed by parts passing from the abdomen to the thigh. The outer half of the interval is filled by the psoas and iliacus muscles, between which is the anterior crural nerve, while the external cutaneous nerve lies on the iliacus near the anterior superior iliac spine : in this part Poupart's ligament is closely bound down to the muscle by its attachment to the iliac613 ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. fascia. Tlie inner half is occupied by the femoral vessels and their sheath, with the upper end of the pectineus muscle ; the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve issues on the outer side of the artery. Gimbernafs ligament, or the piece of the tendon of the external Gimbemai's oblique muscle which is inserted into the pectineal line, is about ^^sament. three-fourths of an inch in length, and is triangular in shape. Its apex is at the pubic sj^ine : while its base is in contact with the crural sheath, and is joined l)y the femoral ligament of the fascia lata. By one margin (anterior) it is continuous with the crural arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal. The crural sheath (fig. 200, b) i-s a loose tube of membrane Crural around the femoral vessels. It has the form of a funnel, sloped ^^^^^^^ • unequally on the sides. The wide part of the tube is upwards ; and ^^^^ the narrow part ceases about two inches below Poupart's ligament, relations; hy blending with the common areolar sheath of the blood-vessels. Its outer border is nearly straight, and is perforated by the genito- crural nerve (^). Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by lymphatics, superficial vessels, and the saphenous vein (/) ; this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is con- nected to the falciform margin and the cribriform fascia. In front of the crural sheath is the iliac part of the fascia lata. The sheath is continuous with the fasciae of the abdomen and how formed, thigh in this way ;—the anterior part is a prolongation of the transversalis fascia beneath Poupart's ligament ; and the posterior part is formed externally by the iliac fascia covering the psoas muscle, and internally by the pubic part of the fascia lata covering the pectineus. Crossing the front of the sheath, beneath the arch of Poupart's Deep crural ligament, is a fibrous band, the deep crural arch. It is noticed in the description of the transversalis fascia (p. 458). Dissection (fig. 200). The student is to open the sheath by an Open the incision across the front, and to raise the anterior part with hooks, sheath. Inside the tube are contained the femoral vessels, each surrounded by its covering of areolar tissue, together with an inguinal gland; Vessels have and if a piece of the areolar casing be cut out over both the artery g^|^th and the vein, there will be an appearance of two thin partitions, the one being situate on the inner side of the vein, separating this vessel from the gland, and the other (|) between the vein and the artery. Interior of the crural sheath (fig. 200). The sheath is said to be Contents divided into three compartments by two partitions ; and the posi- sheatiL^^ tion of the so-called septa has been before referred to,—one being internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compartment is contained the femoral artery Space (a), lying close to the side of the sheath ; in the middle one is fnto'ttfree • placed the femoral vein (6) ; and in the inner space (crural canal) only a lymphatic gland (c) is situate. The crural canal (fig. 200) is the innermost space in the interior the inner is of the crural sheath :—Its length is about a third of an inch, and canai^"^*DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 614 it reaches from the base of GiiuLeriiat s ligament to the upper coTiiu of the saphenous opening. It decreases rapidly in size from above down, and is closed below. The aperture by which the space com- municates with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring, parts In front of the canal are Poupart's ligament and the upper end aroxmd it. ^£ falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; while behind it is the pectineus muscle. On tlie outer side of the canal, but in Fig. 200.* the sheath, is the femoral vein. Through this channel the intestine passes from the abdomen in femoral hernia. Cruial ling: The crural ring is the upper opening of the crural canal. It is on a level with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (fig. 154, d), and situation is larger in the female than in the male. Oval in shape, its greatest an form , measurement is from side to side, in which direction it efjuals about half an inch ; and it is filled b}^ a lymphatic gland. boundaries. The structures around the ring, outside the crural sheath, are similar to those bounding the canal, viz., in front, the superficial and the deep crural arch, and behind, the pubis covered by the pectineus muscle. Internally is Gimbernat's ligament with the conjoined tendon ; and externally (but within the sheath) is the femoral vein. The position of vessels on the several sides of the ring is stated at page 470. * Dissection of the crural slieatli (Illustrations of Dissections), a. Iliac part of the fascia lata, reflected, b. Crural sheath, opened, c. Poupart's ligament, d. Fascia lata of the thigh in place. X- Two septa dividing the space of the crural sheath into three compartments. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, and h, femoral vein, enclosed in the Cfural sheath with c, a lymphatic gland, d. Superficial circumflex iliac, e. Superficial pudic. /. Saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. Grenito-crural. 2. Ilio-inguinal. 4. External cutaneous.COUESE AND COVERINGS OF HEENIA. 615 Septum crurale. Tliat part of tlie subperitoneal fatty layer whicli Cnu-ai is placed over the crural ring has been named crural septum from ^"^P^^^^^ • its position between the thigh and abdomen. The situation of the position ; septum is now visible, but its characters are ascertained in the dis- liow formed, section of the abdomen (p. 469). Femoral Hernia. In this kind of hernia there is a protrusion Femoral of intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. And the gut ^^j^j^j^j^jj^ descends in the crural sheath, being placed on the inner side of the vein. Course. At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in its course; progress from the abdomen, and passes through the crural ring, and first along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it changes its course, and is directed forwards to the surface next of the thigh, where it becomes elongated transversely ; and should ^nTthen' the gut protrude still farther, the tumour ascends on tlie abdomen, upwards, in consequence of the resistance being less in this direction than o]i the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia may suggest to the dissector How it is the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the in- ^"^^ pusiied testine in the abdominal cavity. With the view of making the bowel retrace its course, it will be necessary, if the protrusion is small, to direct it backwards and upwards ; but if the hernia is large, it must be pressed down first to the saphenous opening, and after- wards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. During the manipulation to return the intestine to its cavity, the thigh is to be raised and rotated inwards, in order that the margin of the saphenous opening and the other structures may be relaxed. Coverings. As the intestine protrudes it is clothed by the follow- coverings ing layers, which are elongated and ]3ushed before it from within ^Qn"^^,^^^' outwards. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen, d-m-aisep- which forms the hernial sac. Next one from the septum crurale tum.^crurai across the crural ring. Afterwards comes a stratum from the crural ' sheath, imless -the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side. Over this is sj)read a layer of the cribriform fascia. And, lastly, cribriform there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, together with f^^fi^' ^ 5 iD and skin. the skm. The coverings may vary, or may be conjoined in difi'erent degrees The cover- according to the condition of the hernia. In some instances the aitered!^'^ prolongation from the crural sheath is wanting. Farther, in an old hernia the covering derived from the septum crurale is united usually with that from the crural sheath, so as to form one layer, the fascia propria (Cooper). In general, in an operation for the relief of the strangulated bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the ,, subcutaneous fat, can recognise but little of the coverings enume- rated by anatomists until he meets with that of the subperitoneal fat or septum crurale. Diagnosis. This hernial tumour is generally smaller than inguinal, JJ^^^^I^^'^^y^ and does not extend into the scrotum in the male, or the labium in the female ; and if its neck can be traced below Poupart's liga- ment, it can be distinguished certainly from an inguinal hernia.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 616 Place of Seat of stricture and division of it. The strangulation of a femoral stnctuie. iiei^-nia may be situate either outside or inside the neck of the sac. How to cut The external stricture may be found opjDosite the margin of the the external .^aphenous Opening, or deeper in, opposite Poupart's ligament. It may be removed by cutting down on the neck of the tumour at the inner side, and dividing the constricting band arching over the neck of the hernia in this situation, without opening the sac. and the The stricture inside the neck of the sac is occasioned by the thick- stn?t" re. ening of the peritoneum. For its relief the neck of the sac is to be laid bare, as if there was an external stricture; and if the intestine cannot be passed into the abdomen after division of all resisting bands on the exterior of the neck, the sac of the peritoneum is to be opened ; and a director having been introduced through the con- striction, a cut is to be made horizontally inwards for the extent of one or two lines. The several vessels that may be wounded in attempting to relieve the deep stricture are enumerated at page 471. Scarpa's trIxVXGular space. Triangular space. Clean out Scarpa's Follow seek nerves, take away fat. Contents; extent; base and. sides; roof and floor. Position of This hollow is situate on the front of the thigh, and lies beneath the superficial depression seen near Poupart's ligament. Dissection (fig. 201). The space will appear on removing the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected, and the muscle on the outer side (sartorius) should be fixed in place with stitches. Afterwards the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away ; and the femoral vessels are to be followed downwards as far as the sartorius muscle. On the outer side of the vessels clean the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, together with the branches of an artery (profunda), which are buried in the fat. In removing the fat from beneath the femoral artery, the student is to look for one or two small nerves to the pectineus muscle. Scarpa's triangle (fig. 201) is an intermuscular space contain- ing the trunks of the blood-vessels of the thigh, and the anterior crural nerve, with lymphatics and fat. It extends commonly over the upper third of the thigh ; but the length varies with the breadth of the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses inwards. The base of the space is at Poupart's ligament ; externally it is bounded by the inner border of the sartorius; and internally by the inner border of the adductor longus. Towards the surface it is covered by the fascia lata, and by the integuments with inguinal glands and superficial vessels. The floor slopes backwards on each side towards the middle ; it is constructed externally, where it is of small extent, by the conjoined psoas and iliacus (b) ; and internally by the pectineus and adductor longus muscles (e and f) ; and between and beneath these, near the large vessels, is a small piece of the adductor brevis. The femoral artery runs through the deepest part of the hollow,SCARPA'S TRIANGULAR SPACE. 617 lying slightly outside the centre of the space, and supplies small femoral cutaneous offsets, as well as a large deep branch, the jjrofunda : a ^^^^^^' small offset (external pudic) is directed from it to the scrotum across the inner boundary. On the inner side of the artery and close to it is placed the femoral vein, which is here joined by the saphenous of vein; and profunda branches. About a third of an inch external to the of anterior vessel is situate the large anterior crural nerve, which lies deeply at crural nerve, first between the iliacus and psoas, but afterwards becomes more superficial and divides into branches. Deep lymphatics accompany the femoral vessels, and are continued Lymphatics Fig. 201.* into the iliac glands in the abdomen ; they are joined by the super- ficial lymphatics. Femoral artery (fig. 203). This vessel is a continuation of the Femoral arteiy: * Dissection of Scarpa's triangular s^jace (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Sartorius. b, Iliacus. c. Tensor fascise latae. d. Rectus femoris. E. Pectineus. p. Adductor longus. G. Gracilis. Vessels: a. Femoral artery. 6. Superficial circumflex iliac, c. Superficial epigastric, e. External pudic (-inferior). /. Deep circumflex iliac, g. Deep epigastric, h. Femoral vein. i. Inferior external pudic vein. k. Internal saphenous vein. Nerves: The large anterior crural is close outside the artery. 2. Offset to the pectineus. 3. Middle cutaneous. 4. Internal cutaneous. 5. Genito-crural. 6. External cutaneous.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. external iliac, and readies from tlie lower border of Poiipart's liga- ment to tlie opening in the adductor magnus muscle ; at that spot it passes into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. Occupying three-fourths of the length of the thigh, the course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation outwards of the limb with the knee-joint half bent, by a line drawn from a point midway between the sym- physis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, to the prominent tuberosity of the inner condyle of the femur. In the upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, and is comparatively superficial, being un- covered by muscle ; but lower down it is placed along the inner side of the shaft of that bone, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its relations allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial part of the artery (fig. 201, a), which is now laid bare, is contained in Scarpa's triangular space, and is from three to four inches long. Its position in that hollow may be ascertained by the line before mentioned. Encased at first in the crural sheath for about two inches, it is covered by the skin and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata and some inguinal glands. At its beginning the artery rests on the psoas muscle; and it is subsequently placed over the pectineus (e), though at some distance from the muscle in this position of the limb, and separated from it by fat, and the profunda and femoral veins. Its companion vein (/i) is on the inner side and close to it at the pubis, but is placed behind the artery as it leaves the space. The anterior crural nerve lies on the outer side, being distant about a third of an inch near Poupart's ligament; and the internal cutaneous branch of the nerve lies over the artery along the edge of the sartorius. Crossing beneath the vessels is the nerve of the pectineus (^). Unusual position. A few examples of transference of the main artery of tlie limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In these cases the vessel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popHteal space. The branches of the artery in Scarpa's sj^ace are the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous ofi'sets have been seen (p. 60*7), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The inferior exter7ial pudic artery (fig. 201, e) arises separately from, or in common with, the other pudic branch. It courses in- wards over the jDectineus muscle, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to end in the scrotum or labium pudendi, according to the sex : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perineal artery. The deep femoral branch or the pirofunda (fig. 203,") is the largest offset of the femoral artery, and arises from the outer side of that trunk from one or two inches below Poupart's ligament. Its dis-UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. 619 tribution is to the muscles of tlie tliigli, and will he after^vards followed. Ill tlie present dissection it may be seen to lie over the and position iliacus muscle, where it gives the external circumflex artery to the 5.Jj^,*;;^[Pf'*' outer part of the thigh ; and then to turn, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb. * Vernation in origin. The origin of the profunda may approach nearer to origin of Poupart's ligament until it arrives opposite that band ; or may even go beyond, profunda and reach the external iliac artery (one example, R. Quain). And the branch may recede farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement ; but in this case the circumflex branches usually arise sejiarately from the femoral. In applying a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of so large an offset. Femoral vein (fig. 201, h). The i^^rincipal vein of the limb, Femoral while in the triangular space, has almost the same relative anatomy first inside as the artery : its position to that vessel, however, is not the same = throughout. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on the same level, and is sup23orted on the pubis between the psoas and pectineus muscles : but it soon wdnds afterwards f 11 T • 1 1 1 1 • T T • behmd it. beneath the artery, and is placed between the mam trunk and its deep branch. In this space it receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral veins, and a small branch {i) with the inferior external pudic artery. DEEP PARTS OF THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. The muscles on the front of the thigh are to be learnt next: they Muscles on are the sartorius and the extensor of the knee; and at the top of ''^ the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. Four muscles are combined in the extensor, viz., rectus, crureus, vastus externus, and vastus internus^ The external circumflex branch of the profunda artery lies amongst "Vessels, the muscles and sujDplies them with branches ; and a large nerve, Nerve, the anterior crural, furnishes ofi'sets to them. Dissection. To proceed with the deep dissection, the limb is to be J^^^^^^j'^j^^ retained in the same position as before, and the flaps of skin on the tiie front of front of the thigh are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be thigii. cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee- joint the student is to note its attachment to the edges of the patella, and its union with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the knee. In raising the inner piece of the fascia, the narrow muscle appear- Follow out ing (sartorius) should be followed to its insertion into the tibia ; and and fix it, to 2)revent its displacement, it should be fixed with stitches along * Sometimes the term common femoral is applied to the trunk above the origin of the profunda, and the names superficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal pieces into which it divides.620 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and pre- serve nerves in contact with it. Dissect the adductors, and clean the extensor jnusele. Dissect tensor of fascia. sartorins is the large extensor knee is to be bent, to make Sartorins course over the thigh; insertion; relations of the first or oblique portion. of the middle. and of the lower part; both edges. Care should be taken of the small nerves in contact with the sartorins, viz., a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh from the saphenous, internal cutaneous and obturator ; two branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle,—one crossing the surface, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle ; and the trunk of the great saphenous escaping from beneath it near the knee, with the patellar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Internal to the sartorins some strong muscles (adductors) are in- clined downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay bare the fore part of these muscles; and beneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorins, he is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the of the knee. For its dissection the tense the fibres ; and an expansion below from the common tendon to the fascia lata and the knee-joint is not to be removed now,—its arrangement will be noticed after. The smaller muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh (ten- sor of the fascia lata) is to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, corresponding with the width of the muscle, should be left along the outer aspect of the limb. After this slip has been detached, the rest of the fascia on the outer side of the thigh is to be divided by one or two transverse cuts, and is to 1je followed backwards to its insertion into the femur. The SARTORius (fig. 202, a), is the longest muscle in the body, and extends from the pelvis to the leg. It arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensor on the one side, and the adductors on the other. Its origin is tendinous from the U23per anterior iliac spinous 23ro- cess of the hip-bone, and from about half the interval between this and the inferior process. The fibres constitute a riband-like muscle, which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia,—mainly into a slight depression l)y the side of the tubercle for an inch and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper j)art is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle ; it rests^ on the following muscles : iliacus (b), rectus (d), and adductor longus (g), as well as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle portion is vertical, and lies in a hollow between the vastus internus (e) and the adductor muscles, as low as the opening for the femoral artery; but beyond that aperture, where it bounds the popliteal space, it is placed between the vastus with the great adductor in front, and the gracilis (h) with the inner hamstrings behind. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower tendinous part (I) rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, being superficial to the tendonsSAETORIUS MUSCLE. of the gracilis and semitendiiiosus, and separated from tliem by a prolongation of their synovial bursa: from its upper border tliere is an aponeurotic expansion to join that from the extensor over the knee ; and from its lower border is given off another which Idends \^ ith the Fig. 202.* fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great .saphenous nerve appears with vessels ; and piercing it is the patellar branch of the same nerve. Action. The tibia and femur being free to move, the muscle bends use, the limb free, * Surface view of the front of tlie thigli, the integuments and fascia latn being removed (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Sartorius. b. Iliacus. c. Tensor fascise latse. d. Rectus femoris. e. Vastus internus. f. Pectineus. G. Adductor longus. h. Gracilis. i. Tendon of sartorius. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, b. Femoral vein. c. Internal saphenous vein.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 622 and fixed: standing on one leg. Divide the sartorius, show apo- neurosis, and dissect the nerves and vessels. Aponeurosif over the femoral artery ends below by a free border. Deep part of femoral artery : relations : position of veins and saphenous nerve. the knee and hip-joints over which it passes, giving rise to rotation inwards of the tibia, and outwards of the femur. With the limbs fixed, the two muscles will assist in bringing for- wards the pelvis in stooping ; and when standing on one leg the muscle will help to rotate the body, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 203). The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral arter}''. Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis l^etween the adductor and extensor muscles ; this is thin above, and when it is divided the internal sapheuous nerve will come into view. Parallel to the saphenous nerve above, but outside it, is the nerve to the vastus internus muscle, which sends an off'set on the surface of the vastus to the knee-joint : the latter may be traced now, lest it should be destroyed afterwards. The plexus of nerves on tlie inner side of the thigh may be more completely dissected at this stage. The femoral vessels and their branches are to l^e nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the limb its small anastomotic branch arises : this branch is to be pursued through the fibres of the vastus internus, and in front of the adductor magnus tendon, to the knee ; an offset of it is to be followed with the saphenous nerve. The aponeurotic covering of the femoral vessels (fig. 203,') exists only where these are covered by the sartorius. It is thin above ; but below it is formed of strong fibres, which are directed transversely between the vastus internus and the tendons of the adductor muscles. Inferiorly, the meml)ranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the saphenous nerve and its vessels escape. The DEEP PART OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY (fig. 203,^) lieS in a hollow between the muscles (Hunter's canal) until it reaches the opening in the adductor magnus. It is covered by the sartorius muscle and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integu- ments and fascia. Beneath it are the pectineus, the adductor brevis in part, the adductor longus, and a small piece of the adductor magnus. On the outer side is the vastus internus. The femoral vein lies close to the artery, on its posterior and outer aspect ; and in the integuments oftentimes an offset of the saphenous passes across the line of the arterial trunk. Lying along the front of the artery is the internal saphenous nerve, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. The femoral Splitting of the artery. Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two artery may j^elow the origin of the profunda ; but in all the cases that have been met with, the branches have united again above the opening in the adductor muscle. be divided. B)anches Branches. One named branch—anastomotic, and muscular offsets, spring from this part of the artery.LOWER PART UF FEMORAL VESSELS. 623 The anastomotic branch (fig. 204, k) arises close to the opening in Anasto- the addnctor muscle, and divides at once into two pieces, superficial ^ and deep :— The svperjicial offset (n) continues with the saphenous nerve to superficial, and Fig. 203.* * Deep part of the femoral artery aud its brandies, with muscles of the thigh (Quain's Arteries). 1. Femoral artery. 2. Profunda artery. 3. Internal circumflex. 4. Extei-nal circumflex. 5. Superficial circumflex iliac. 6. Inferior external pudic, 7. Lower part of the aponeurosis over the femoral artery. 8. Anterior crural nerve. 9. Pectineus muscle. 10. Adductor longus. 11. Gracilis. 12. Vastus internus. 13. Rectus femoi-is, 14. Sartorius, in part removed.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 624 deep part. Muscular branches. Femoral vein. To expose muscles on tront of the femur. Tensor vaginso femoris arises from pelvis; ends in fascia lata: parts around: use on limb; on pelvis; on knee. Cut through the band of fascia. Great exten- .sor of knee. the lower border of the sartoriiis, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deep branch (I) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internus, and descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal artery. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus, and forms an arch at the ujDper border of the patella witli an offset of the superior external articular artery. Muscular branches. Branches for the supply of the muscles come mostly from the outer side of the femoral artery ; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and the adductor longus. The FEMORAL VEIN Corresponds closel}'' with the femoral artery in its relations and its branches. Dissection. The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the profunda, and are to be thrown downwards pre- paratory to the deeper dissection. Afterwards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural nerve. Unless this dis- section is fully carried out, tlie upper part of the vastus internus and crureus Avill not be prepared for learning. The TENSOR VAGINA FEMORIS s. FASCIAE LATiE (fig. 204, l) Occu- pies the upper third of the thigh. It takes origin from the front of the crest of the ilium at the outer aspect, from the anterior superior spine and from the edge of the notch between this and the inferior spine as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata about three inches below, and rather in front of the line of, the great trochanter of the femur. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the gluteus medius. Beneath it are the ascending offsets of the external circumflex artery ; and a branch of the^ superior gluteal nerve enters its under surface, A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Action. Supposing the limb moveable the muscle abducts the thigh, and may help in rotating inwards the femur. When the limb is fixed it will support the pelvis, and assist in balancing the latter on the femur in walking. The chief function of the tensor vaginae femoris is, however, to act with the gluteus maximus in tightening the ilio-tibial band so as to support the extended knee (p. 640). Dissection. After the tensor has been learnt, the slip of fascia extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; and when it is detached from the muscles around, the rectus may be followed vqy- wards to its origin from the jDelvis. The QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS (fig. 202) consists of four parts or heads, one long or superficial (rectus), which springs from the pelvis, and three short or deep (vastus internus, crureus, and vastus externus) which arise from the femur : all are united below in a common tendon.625 QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR OF KNEE. The RECTUS FEMORis (203/^) gives rise to a fleshy jDrominence Rectus has on the front of the thigh. It arises from the pelvis by two origin^t tendinous heads : one, the anterior, is attached to the anterior in- pelvis; ferior iliac spine ; and the other, posterior, is fixed to a rough mark on the outer surface of the ilium close above the acetabulum : near their origin they join to form a single tendon. The fleshy fibres insertion terminate below in another tendon, which joins the aponeuroses of mon tendon, the other muscles in the common tendon. The rectus is larger in the middle than at the ends; and its fibres The muscle ara directed from the centre to the sides, giving rise to the condi- fo^nl^aiKi tion called pennifdrm. Its upper end is covered by the tensor superficial, vaginae fenioris, iliacus, and sartorius ; but in the rest of its extent above, it is superficial. It conceals branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the crureus and vasti. The upper tendon of the rectus reaches farthest on the anterior sur- face ; while the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect of the muscle. Dissection. To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus Cut the near the lower end and raise it without injuring the branches of amun'spiay vessels and nerves beneath. The muscular mass covering the shaft ^^^^^ ^^^^v liGtids of of the femur is to be thoroughly cleaned, and its three parts defined extensor: in the following way :— The division between the vastus externus on the outer side and define the crureus in front is readily made in the situation of some de- externus; scending vessels and nerves. Then, on turning to the outer side of the thigh, al)out half-way down, the tendinous edge of the vastus externus will be perceived, with oblique fibres of the crureus appearing behind it : sink the handle of the scalpel between these until it meets the division in front. To separate the vastus internus from the crureus, the lower end separate of the rectus must be detached from the others and turned down vastus as far as possible, when a cleft will be evident in the subjacent tendon internus, above the inner part of the patella. From this interval the division jjefg^'""^ may be easily carried upwards between the tendons of the two muscles, but at the upper end some fleshy fibres generally need cutting to complete the separation. If the vastus internus is turned and expos- inwards off the crureus, a large part of the inner surface of the surface of femur will be seen to be free from muscular attachment. .bone. The VASTUS EXTERNUS has a narrow attachment to the femur Vastus in comparison with its size. It takes origin from the upper half of jf^thiuTt the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch thick, which is the origin; attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter; then along the outer side of the gluteal ridge, and the upper half of the linea aspera ; and lastly to the contiguous external intermuscular septum. Inferiorly the fibres of the muscle end in a flat tendon, which blends ends in with those of the other portions in the common tendon. tendon; The vastus externus is the largest part of the quadriceps, and produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its J'^J^^fl^f^j^i, cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is partly covered by the surfaces.626 DISSECTIOX OF THE THIGH. Vastus internus arises from femur and adductor tendons: forms prominence above knee. Crureus has widest origin: common ending: is deepest part of all. Common tendoii above knee. Subcrureal bursa. Lay bare l)art below knee. Infrapatellar tendon inserted into tubercle of tibia; expansion over it. Small sub- crureus muscle ends on the synovial sac. the rectus, tensor vaginse femoris, and gluteus maximus muscles. The deep surface rests on the crureus, and receives branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS (fig. 202, e) also has a narrow origin from the inner surface of the femur along the linea aspera and the pro- longation upwards of its inner lip, reaching as high as the small trochanter ; and in the lower half of the thigh from the tendons of the adductor longus and adductor magnus. The fibres join an aponeurosis which blends in the common tendon, and is attached to the patella lower than the vastus externus. The muscular mass is in part covered by the sartorius and rectus, but it projects between those muscles below. Some of the lower fibres are almost transverse, and will be able to draw the patella inwards. The CRUREUS arises from the u}:^ v three-fourths of the anterior and outer surfaces of the femur, except where they are occupied by the vastus externus, and from the lower half of the external inter- muscular septum. Its fibres end, like the other parts, in an aponeurosis which enters into the common tendon. The rectus and vasti cover the crureus except for a small extent at its lower and hinder part. It lies upon the bone and the sub- crureus muscle. The common or suprapatellar tendon resulting from the union of the foregoing is attached to the fore part of the upjoer border of the patella. It is oblong in shape, and about three inches long. A few fibres are prolonged over the front of the bone into the ligamentum patellse, which forms the continuation of the tendon. Between the suprapatellar tendon and the femur there is a bursa, which usually opens into the knee-joint. \ Dissection. To see the continuation of the tendon, and its insertion into the tibia, the student should divide along the middle line of the patella and knee-joint a thin aponeurotic layer, whicli is derived from the lower fibres of the muscle, and covers the joint. On reflecting inwards and outwards the fibrous layer, the tendon will be exposed. The infrapatellar tendon, or ligamentum jjaie^te, is about two inches long, and is narrower and thicker than the part above the knee. It extends from the lower margin of the patella to the tubercle of the tibia ; and a bursa separates it from the bone above its insertion. From the lower part of the vasti muscles a superficial aponeurotic expansion is derived : this prolongation, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule in front of the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Suhcrureus muscle. Beneath the crureus, near the knee-joint, is a thin layer of pale fibres, which is but a part of the large muscle, separated from the rest by areolar tissue. Attached to the femur in the lower fourth, and often by an outer and inner slip, it ends in aponeurotic fibres on the synovial sac of the knee-joint.627 EXTERNAL CIECUMFLEX ARTERY. Action. All parts of the quadriceps extend the knee-joint when Use with the tibia is moveable ; and the rectus can flex the hip-joint over able^"^*^^^" which it passes. The fleshy bellies are strong enough to break the patella transversely over the end of the femur, or to rupture some- times the common tendon. With the tibia as the fixed point the vasti will bring forwards the with tibia femur, and straighten the knee, as in rising from the stooping ^^^^ * posture and jumping ; and the rectus will prop the pelvis on the femur, or assist in moving it forwards in stoo|)ing. The subcrureus'draws upwards the pouch of synovial mem-howsub- brane above the patella in extension of the knee. acts.^^^*' Intermuscular septa. The processes of the fascia lata, which intermus- limit laterally the, extensor muscle of the knee, are thus named, and ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ are fixed to the linea aspera and the lines leading to the condyles of are two: the femur. The external septum is the stronger, and reaches from the insertion the outer of the gluteus maximus to the outer condyle of the femur. It is stronger; situate between the vastus externus and crureus on the one side, and the short head of the biceps on the other, to all of which it gives origin : it is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external articular vessels and nerve. The inner imrtition is very thin along the side of the vastus the inner is internus ; and its jjlace is supplied by the strong tendon of i^*^^^^tmct. the adductor magnus between the inner condyle and the linea iispera. The EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY (fig. 203, is the chief vessel External for the supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It arises ^|.^y^!y^^'^^ usually from the outer side of the jjrofunda (deep femoral) artery, but often from the femoral trunk. It is directed outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the sartorius divides and rectus muscles, and supplies oftsets to those muscles. Its terminal "^^^ branches are ascending, transverse, and descending:— The ascending branch is directed beneath the tensor vagince ascending, femoris to the outer side of the hip, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and supplies the contiguous muscles. The trarisverse branch, the smallest, divides into two or three transverse, which enter the vastus externus, and anastomose with the per- forating arteries. The descending branch is the largest, and ends in pieces which are and de- distributed to the crureus and vastus externus muscles. One con- JJanciiel ■siderable branch descends to the knee, and anastomoses with the upper external articular artery; a small offset courses over the muscle with a nerve to the joint. The ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE (fig. 203, ^) of the lumbar plexus Anterior (p. 542) supplies the muscles, and most of the integuments of the crural nerve front of the thigh, and the integuments of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves the abdomen it is is divided, flattened, and is divided into superficial and deep pieces. A. The superficial part gives off the middle and internal cutaneous From its -nerves, and branches to the sartorius and pectineus muscles. part arise— s s 2DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 628 middle cutaneous: internal cutaneous. which lias anterior and posterior brandies nerve to pectineus; branches to sartorius. The deep part gives off brandies to vastus (-xternus. to crnreus and to vastus internus : and long saphenous nerve, The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and extends to the knee (p. 609). The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more small twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper two-thirds of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into anterior and posterior branches. Sometimes these branches arise separately from the anterior crural trunk. The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then j)ierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments (p. 610). The ]30sterior branch remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 610). While underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator, and nearer the knee, with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The nerve to the fectineus (fig. 201, ^) is slender, and is directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the anterior surface of the muscle : sometimes there are two branches. Two or three branches to the sartorius arise in common with the middle cutaneous nerve. B. The deep part of the anterior crural nerve furnishes Ijranches to the several heads of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and one cutaneous nerve—the internal saphenous. The branch to the rectus enters the deep surface of the muscle ; from this branch a twig is sent to the hip-joint. The nerve to the vastus externus divides into two or more pieces as it enters the muscle. From one of these an articular filament is often continued downwards to the knee-joint. Two or three branches to the crureus pass into the anterior surface of the muscle ; and from the most internal a long twig descends to the subcrureus and the knee-joint. The nerve to the vastus internus (fig. 204, ^) is nearly as large as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper end of the vastus it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued as far as the middle of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee-joint. Its articular branch (fig. 204, ^) is prolonged on or in the vastus, and on the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it is distributed over the synovial membrane of the articulation. This small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 624). The internal or long saphenous nerve (fig. 203) is the largest branch of the anterior crural. In the thigh the nerve takes the course of the deep blood-vessels, and is continued along the artery, beneath the aponeurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nerve passes from beneath the aponeurosis, and is prolonged under the sartorius muscle to the upper part of the leg, where it becomes cutaneousANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 629 (fig, 199/). It supplies two otFsets while it is beneath the fascia in the thigh. A communicating branch arises about the middle of the thigh, which has a and crosses inwards beneath the sartorius to join in the plexus of cating^"^" the internal cutaneous and obturator nerves, or with the internal cutaneous nearer the knee : this branch is often absent. The patellar branch springs from the nerve near the knee-joint, ^ P^', and perforating the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the integument over the knee (p. 610). A branch of nerve to the tensor vagime femoris is derived from Nerve of tlie superior gluteal (p. 643) ; it enters the deep surface of the va"inai. muscle, and may be followed nearly to the lower end. Directions. After the examination of the muscles of the front of J^^^j^^j^^^^ the thigh, with their vessels and nerves, the student is to learn the tors, adductor muscles, and the vessels and nerves which belong to them. PARTS ON THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The muscles in this position are the three adductors,—longus, The adduc- brevis, and magnus, with the gracilis and pectineus. These have ''"^^"^ the following position with respect to one another :—Internal to all, ^^"g\^^ jj"^ and the longest, is the gracilis. Suj^erficial to the others are the ^^""^ pectineus and the adductor longus; and beneath the last two are the short adductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with the muscles, and supplying them, are the pro- vcs.seis and funda artery (of the femoral) with the accompanying vein, and the "'^i'^'*^' obturator nerve. Dissection. For the preparation of the muscles, the investing Dissection fascia and tissue are to be taken awav ; and the two superficial of adductor adductors are to be separated from one another. Let the student be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve Nerves, in connection ,with the muscles, viz., those entering the fleshy fibres, and one issuing beneath tlie adductor longus, to join the plexus at the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the profunda and Remove its branches, they must be removed. a cms. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 204, c), ^'"aeilis and is fleshy and riband-like above, but tendinous below. The takes ongiu . <^ . . ' trom the muscle arises by a thin aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, pelvis: from the pubic border of the hip-bone close to the margin, viz., opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch. Inferiorly it is inserted by a flat tendon, about one-third is inserted of an inch wide, into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath and close ' ' to the sartorius. The muscle is superficial throughout. For two-thirds of the thigh ^^^^JJ^^J it is flattened against the adductors brevis and magnus, so as to muscles; have its borders directed forwards and backwards ; and in the lower third, it intervenes between the sartorius and semimembranosus muscles, and helps to form the inner boundary of the poplitealDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 630 use on knee- j oint and femur; on pelvis. Pectin eus: origin from pubis; inserted into femur relations of surfaces. and borders use on lemur, free and fixed. Adductor longus ex- tends from pelvis to femur; relations to muscles and vessels; use on femur, on pelvis. Dissection of accessory obturator nerve: space. At its insertion tlie tendon is nearer tlie knee than that of the semitendinosus, thongh at the same depth from the snrface, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament ; from the tendon an exj)ansion is continned to the fascia of the leg, like the sartorius. A bnrsa separates the tendon from the ligament, and projects above it to the sartorius. Action. It bencis the knee-joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating in that bone, and then brings the moveable femur towards the middle line with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground, the gracilis will aid in projDping the pelvis on the limb. The PECTixEus (fig. 202, f) is the highest of the muscles directed from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line, and slightly from the surface in front of that line ; and it is inserted by a thin tendon, about two inches in width, into the femur behind the small tro- chanter, and into the upjDer part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia lata ; and the femoral vessels lie over its lower part : the opposite surface touches the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and the superficial portion of the obturator nerve. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the adductor longus ; and the internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the psoas. Action. It adducts the limb and bends the hip-joint. When the femur is fixed it can support the pelvis in standing; or it can draw forwards the pelvis in stooping. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS lies below the pectineus (fig. 202, o), and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the front of the pubis in the angle between the crest and the symphysis ; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the jDectineus, and forms part of Scarpa's triangular space. Its anterior surface is covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sartorius : the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on the superficial part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep femoral artery. The tendon of insertion is closely united to the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Action. With the femur moveable, it will flex the hip-joint, and with the aid of the other adductors will carry inwards the limb, so as to cross the thigh-bones. In walking it helps the other adductors to project the limb. With the femur fixed, the muscle j)rops and tilts forwards the pelvis. Dissection. The adductor brevis muscle, with the obturator nerve and the profunda vessels, -\^'ill be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the j)ectineus near the pubis, and throwing it down, the dissector may find occasionally the small631 ADDUCTOR BREVIS MUSCLE. accessory nerve of the obturator wliicli turns beneatli tlie outer boi'der ; if this is present, its branches to the hip-joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longus is then adduc- to be divided near its origin, and raised with care, so as not to tor longus, destroy the branches of the obturator nerve beneath : its tendon is to be detached frbm that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the branches of the profunda artery. Kow the adductor brevis will be laid Tjare. A part of the obtu- to show rator nerve crosses over this muscle to the femoral artery, and sends adductor Drcvis' an offset to the plexus at the inner side of the thigh : a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath this adductor. The muscle should he separated from the subjacent adductor magnus, where the lower trace l^ranch of the nerve with an artery issues. In this last step of the ^^gj^.^**^^ dissection, the student should follow on and in the fibres of the and branch adductor magnus a slender articular branch of tlie obturator nerve ; t^.^^pee- ' jomt. this will afterwards be traced to the knee (p. 655). The accessory obturator nerve (Schmidt) is derived from the Accessory trunk of the obturator, near the lumbar plexus (p. 542), aud j)asses ^el:"™^ from tlie abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh it turns beneath the pectineus, and joins the superficial branch of the obturator nerve ; it supplies an offset to the hip-joint with the articular artery, and occasionally one to the under surface of the pectineus. The ADDUCTOR BREVIS (fig. 204, d) has a fleshy and tendinous j^^^^'J^g^'^' origin, about one inch and a half in depth, from the front of the narrow at pubis below^ the adductor longus, and close outside the gracilis. It "^'S'"' is inserted, behind the pectineus, into all the line leading from the insertion.' linea aspera to the small trochanter. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor longus. Parts in with the su|)erficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the profunda artery ; but it is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their in- sertion into the,femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, behind, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve and a branch of the internal circumflex artery. In contact with the upper border lies and at upper the obturator externus (p), and the internal circumflex artery passes ^o^'*^^^- between the two. Action. This muscle adducts the limb with slight flexion of the Use, hip-joint, like the pectineus. And if it acts from the femur, it will and^tfx^d!'' balance and move forwards the pelvis. The OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 204, ^) is a branch of the lumbar oi)turator plexus (p. 542), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as well as the hip and knee-joints. The nerve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and is di\ idKl it divides in that opening into two j)ieces, which are named super- ^'^^'^ ficial and deep, from their position with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. A. The swperficial part Q) of the nerve is directed over the adduc- The super- tor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus, to ^^'^'^^ P'"'* the femoral artery, on which it is distributed : at the lower border f^,Jorai artery, andDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Fig. 204.* * Deep dissection of the adductor muscles, with their vessels and nei-\ cs. (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Adductor longus, cut. j-, Pectineus, cut. c. Gracilis. D. Adductor brevis. E. Adductor magnus. p. Obturator externus. G. Semimembranosus, h. Vastus internus. k. Rectus femoris. l. Tensor fasciae latae. n. Piece of the sartorius. o. Iliaciis. p. Psoas. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, and h. Femoral vein. c. Trunk of the profunda, d. Internal, and e, external circumflex. /. First, g, second, and h, third perforating. i. Muscular of the profunda. Tc. Anastomotic of the femoral, with I, its deep, and n, its superficial branch. Nerves: 1. Obturator, joined by the accessory obturator nerve, with 2, the superficial.OBTUKATOE, NERVE AND BRANCHES. G33 of tlie last muscle it furnishes an offset or two, wliicli join in a joins plexus plexus with the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves (p. 628), ^ and often help to supply the integuments."^ In the aperture of exit, this piece of the nerve sends outwards an branches are articular twig to the hip-joint. hip-joint, Muscular branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the ad- muscular to ductor brevis, and the gracilis. adductoib. B. The deep part (•*) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of Deep part of the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis, is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it:— Muscular branches enter the obturator externus as the nerve eiuis in pierces it; others are furnished to the large, and sometimes to the i,tfgaiis,^ short adductor. A slender articular brcmch (fio-. 204,5) enters the fibres of the ^'"^1 yi'^'-'--^ ^ ' / liraiicli til adductor magnus, and passes through this near the linea aspera to kuee-joiiii. reach the popliteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee-joint : its termination is seen in the dissection of the pop- liteal space (p. 655). Dissection. To prepare the profunda artery and its branches, as Dissect far as they are to be seen on the front of the thigh, it wdll be ^^^"^ '''' requisite to follow back the internal circumflex artery above the uj)per border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches to the apertures in the adductors near the femur. The PROFUNDA (fig. 204, c) is the chief muscular artery of the rrohmdii thigh, and arises from the femoral about an inch and a half below ^'^'"'•^ ' Poupart's ligament (p. 618). At its origin the vessel is placed on origin, the outer side of the jmrent trunk ; but it is soon directed inwards <^^^'^^ii'st', beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur, and ends auaemiin-; at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch that pierces the adductor magnus. Where the vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh it rests parts on the iliacus muscle. But on the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the femoral artery, though deeper in position ; and it is placed first over the pectineus and adductor brevis, and thence to its termination between the adductors longus and magnus. Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles on the Brauciies tn front and back of the thigh, and maintain free anastomoses with th^thigh' other vessels of the thigh (p. 659) ; through these communications Joi" ^eeiy- the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The named Tlie named brandies are these :— are?— ^ * In some bodies the superficial part of the nerve is of large size and has a distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaueous nerve, the place of which it takes : in such instances it joins freely in the plexus. and 4, the deep part. 3. Cutaneous branch of the obturator. 5. Articular branch to the knee from the deep part. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Internal saphenous, and 10, its patellar branch. 8. Nerve to the vastus internus, and 9, its articular branch to the knee.634 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. External circumflex. Internal circumflex ends on back of thigli, supplies liip- joint and muscles. Three perfo- rating brandies : first; second; third; and the ending is a fourth. Anastomotic branches. Profunda vein. Cut through adductor brevis. Adductor niagnus : origm IS narrow; fibres diverge to a. The external circumflex artery (fig. 204, e) has been described in the dissection of the parts on the front of the thigh (p. 627). b. The internal circumflex artery (fig. 204, d) arises from the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and tnrns backwards between the psoas and pectinens, but above the adductor brevis. Opposite the small trochanter it ends in two branches, which will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 649). It supplies the undermen- tioned offsets to the inner side of the thigh :— An articular artery enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular hranclies arise ;—one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles : the other, which is larger, descends with the deep piece of the obturator nerve beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. c. The perforating arteries, three in number, pierce the tendons of some of tlie adductor muscles close to the linea aspera of the femur : they supj^ly muscles on the back of the thigh, and wind round the bone to end in the vastus externus and crureus (p. 659). The flrst (/) begins opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short aud large adductors. The second (g) arises below the middle of the adductor brevis, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding. The third (h) springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. From tlie second or third perforating A^essel a medullary artery is suj^plied to the femur. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces the adductor magnus near the aperture for the femoral artery. d. Muscular or anastomotic branches (^) to the back of the thigh (three or four in number) pass through the adductor magnus at some distance from the linea aspera, and end in a chain of anasto- moses in the hamstrings (p. 659). The PROFUNDA VEIN results from the union of the different branches corresponding with the offsets of its companion artery. It accompanies closely the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, and ends above in the femoral vein. Dissection. To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz., ad- ductor magnus, obturator externus, and the insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through near the pelvis, and to be thrown down. Then the investing layer of fascia and areolar tissue is to be removed from each muscle. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The ADDUCTOR MAGNUS (fig. 204, e) is triangular in form, with its base directed upwards, one side being attached to the femur, and the other free at the inner side of the thigh. The muscle arises from the conjoined rami of the pubis and ischium along their inner margin, and from the lower impression on the ischial tuberosity. The anterior fibres converge from theirADDUCTOR MAGNUS MUSCLE. 635 origin, being horizontal above but more oblique below, and are 171- their inser- serted (from above down) into the back of the femur close inside the gluteal ridge, into the linea aspera, and into the internal supra- horizontau condylar line for about an inch. The posterior fibres, from the ischial tuberosity, are vertical in direction, and end at the lower others third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner con- dyle of the femur, surrounding the adductor tubercle, and is con- nected by a fibrous expansion to the lower -pait of the internal supracondylar line. The muscle consists of two parts, which differ in their characters, and form The anterior, thin and fleshy, forms a septum between the other ad- v^^-^^- ductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the posterior piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface are the other two adductors and the pectineus, with the obturator nerve and the pro- Relations of funda vessels. Tlie posterior surface touches the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are and borders, the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, with the trans- verse branch of the internal circumflex vessels ; and along the inner border lie the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the muscle is closely united with the other adductors, par- ticularly the adductor longus, and in its lowest part with the vastus internus. Near the bone it is pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Action. This muscle is a powerful adductor ; and the part arising Use on from the tuberosity is also an extensor of the hip. In standing, the ^^"^^^'^ > latter part of the muscle, acting from the femur, has an important ^'^ ^ '"°' influence in steadying the hixD-joint; and in walking, the great and in walking, other adductors co-operate with the gluteal muscles externally to support the pelvis on the fixed limb. The ojjening in the adductor for the transmission of the femoral []|e^yegfe[s^! vessels into the 25oj)liteal space is tendinous at the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the junction of the upper three-fourths with the lowest fourth of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus internus ; and on the inside by the tendon of boundaries, the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. The PSOAS and iliacus (fig. 204) arise separately in the abdo- Psoas and men (p. 537), but are united in the tliigh, the conjoined portion of 1^11^11: the muscles lying beneath Poupart's ligament. The psoas (p) is in- insertion serted by tendon into the small trochanter of the femur ; and the "^to femur; fleshy iliacus (o) mainly joins the tendon of the psoas, but a few of its fibres are fixed into a special triangular surface of bone in front of and below the trochanter. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the interval between parts the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous ^'^'^""^^' process ; and below the pelvis the mass covers the capsule of the hip-joint, a large bursa intervening. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior cruralPISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 636 > Obturator externus: origin; insertion. The adduc- tors cover it and it touches liip-joint. Use. Detach oljturator. Obturator iirtery divides into two; inner, and outer branch. Branches of the nerve. nerve. The pectineus and tlie internal circumflex vessels are con- tiguous to the inner border ; and the sartorius and vastus internus touch the outer edge. Action. These muscles act as flexors of the hip-joint; and the use of the psoas on the spinal column is given with the description in the abdomen (p. 538). The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (flg. 204, f) is triangular in form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the inner half, and from the bony circumference of the thyroid foramen for a corresponding extent,—the bony attach- ment being an incli wide opposite the body of the pubis, and reach- ing inwards to the adductor brevis and magnus. The fibres are directed backwards and outwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, and adductor brevis and magnus. It covers the obturator membrane and vessels, and is pierced by the deep part of the obturator nerve. As it winds back it is in contact with the lower surface of the hi]3-joint. The inser- tion of the muscle will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 649). Action. The muscle is an external rotator of the thigh ; but its action will be given in full with the other muscles of the same group in the buttock (p. 650). Dissection. By detaching the obturator muscle from the pelvis, the branches of the artery of the same name will be seen beneath its fibres. The deep part of the nerve may be followed back to the foramen at the same time. A better view will be obtained if this dissection is deferred till after the limb is removed. The OBTURATOR ARTERY is a branch of the internal iliac (p. 565), and enters the thigh through the to]3 of the thyroid foramen. In the aperture the artery divides into two pieces, which form a circle on the obturator membrane beneath the muscle :— The internal jnece runs along the inner half of the membrane, and furnishes ofl'sets to the ol:)turator externus and the upper ends of the adductor muscles. The external loiece descends close to the outer edge of the foramen, and after giving a branch inwards to join the lower end of the pre- ceding, is continued to the ischial tuberosity and the muscles arising therefrom. Ofl'sets pass to both obturator muscles ; and an articular twig is given to the hip-joint. Branches of nerve to the obturator externus come from the deep portion of the obturator, and enter the posterior surface of the muscle.CUTANEOUS NERVES OF BUTTOCK. ;637 Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OE THE GLUTEAL REGION. Directions. Both this Section and tlie following one (to p. 665) Directions, {ire to be completed by the student in tlie time appointed for the body to lie in tlie prone position. Position. During the dissection of the back of the thigh the body Position of is placed with the face down ; and the pelvis is to be raised by ^"^"^•^' blocks, until the lower limits hang vertically over the end of the dissecting table. When the body is turned, the points of bone marking posteriorly the limit between the thigh and the abdomen can 1)6 better ascertained. Dissection. The integument is to be raised from the buttock by Take up the means of the following incisions :—One is to be made along the ' iliac crest, and is to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be carried outwards and downwards across the thigh, ending about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out is to be thrown down. Many of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be found in the seek cuta- fat along the line of the iliac crest (fig. 205). Thus, in front, but "Z'tXx^ZlS rather below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous, if these have not been cut in the dissection of the thigh. Crossing the crest towards the fore part is a large offset of the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back, but close to the bone, a smaller branch from the ilio-hypogastric nerve. At the outer border of the erector spinse are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccyx two or three offsets of the and by side sacral nerves are to be looked for beneath the fat. .saeium . The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small sciatic, other nor\ i-s and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower JJgj^tJi!^^ incision, where they come from underneath the gluteus maximus. below: Some turn upwards over that muscle, and others are directed down the thigh. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the nerves, and will serve as cutaneous guides to their situation. artenes. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 205). The nerves distributed in the Sources of integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are derived ^us nerves': from the last dorsal nerve, from branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, and from the posterior primary divisions of the lumbar and sacral nerves. The LAST DORSAL NERVE (^) Supplies the buttock by means of its from last lateral cutaneous branch (p. 456). This offset perforates the muscles ^"^^^'^^^' of the abdomen, and crosses the front of the iliac crest to be dis- tributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Nerves of the lumbar plexus. Parts of two nerves of the from lumbar plexus,DISSECTION OF . THE BUTTOCK. 638 tlirougli ilio-liypo- gastric, and external cutaneous; from pos- terior branches of lumbar and sacral nerves: fronx sacral plexus, llirougli small sciatic. and perfo- rating cutaneous Ijrancli. Clean gluteus maximus mode of ]iroceedinr Fascia of the buttock is thin and un- important. Gluteus origin inter- nally from pelvis; lumbar plexus (p. 541), viz., ilio-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are spent in tlie integuments of this region. The iliac branch of the ilio-hyi)ogastric (J) crosses the iliac crest in front of the lumbar nerves, lying in a groove in the bone, and ex- tends generally only a short distance below the crest. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh bend backwards to the integuments above the great trochanter, and cross the ramifi- cations of the last dorsal nerve. Posterior primary branches. The offsets of the posterior primary pieces of the lumbar nerves (^) are two or three in number, and cross the crest of the ilium at the outer edge of the erector .S2)ina3; they ramify in the integuments of the middle of the buttock, and some branches may be traced nearly to the great trochanter. The branches of the sacral nerves (^) perforate the gluteus maxi- mus near the sacrum and coccyx, and are then directed outwards for a short distance in the integuments over the muscle. These offsets are usually two in numl3er : the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, and the other by the side of the coccyx. Small sciatic (^). This nerve of the sacral plexus sends super- ficial branches to the buttock. Its cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus maximus, accompanied by superficial branches of the sciatic artery ; two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and are lost in the integuments of the lower part of the buttock ; the remaining branches (^) descend to the thigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it (p. 647). The PERFORATING CUTANEOUS NERVE of the sacral plexus {^) turns round the edge of the gluteus maximus near the coccyx, and supplies the skin of the adjacent part of the buttock : this nerve has been exposed in the dissection of the perineum. Dissection. The thin and unimportant deep fascia of this region may l^e disregarded, in order that the great gluteal muscle, which is the most difficult in the body to clean, may be well displayed. To lay bare the muscle, let the student turn aside the cutaneous nerves, and adduct and rotate inwards the limb to make tense the muscular fibres. Having cut through the fat and fascia from the origin to the insertion, let him carry the scalpel along one bundle of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, it will be more convenient to begin the dissection at the upper border ; but if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. The fascia of the buttock is a prolongation of that enveloping the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the ilium, and to the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker in front of, than on tlie gluteus maximus, and gives attachment superiorly to the gluteus medius, which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus, the fascia splits to encase the muscle. The GLUTEUS maximus (fig. 205, a) is the most superficial muscle of the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is fleshy, and is connectedGLUTEUS MAXIMUS MUSCLE. with bone and with aponeurosis :—Thus, the muscle is attached, from above down, to the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and to a special impression on the hip-bone below it; next, to the aponeu- Fig. 205.* rosis of the erector spinse muscle ; then to the back of the fourth and fifth pieces of the sacrum, and the back of the coccyx ; and lastl}^, to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed downwards and outwards to their * Superficial view of the buttock of the left side (Illustrations of Dissections). A. Grluteus maximus muscle, with the gluteus medius projecting above it. a. Continuation of sciatic artery along the back of the thigh. Nerves: \. Small sciatic trunk. 2. Its cutaneous thigh branches. 3. Inferior pudendal, 4. Branches of perforating cutaneous. 5. Cutaneous of the sacral. 6. Posterior branches of the lumbar nerves. 7. Ilio-hypogastric. 8. Last dorsal.640 .DISSECTIOX OF THE BUTTOCK. insertion insertion:—Tlie whole of the upper half of the muscle, and a few into^fascia superficial fibres of the lower half are inserted into the strong fascia and femur; lata (ilio-tibial band) of the outer side of the thigh ; and the remainder are fixed into the rough line (gluteal ridge) leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter of the femur, relations of The gluteus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles the surfaces, deltoid muscle of the arm in its situation and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common integuments and the investing fascia of the limb, and by the super- ficial nerves and vessels. The things in contact with the under surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper and borders; border overlies the gluteus medius. The lower edge, which is longer and thicker than the upper, in its inner part bounds pos- teriorly the perineal space, and in the rest of its extent lies obliquely across the back of the thigh ; beneath it the hamstring muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerves issue, use on Action. With the femur hanging the muscle extends the hip-joint femur, -^j p^^tting back that bone ; and the upper part can abduct, but the part inserted into the femur will adduct and rotate out the limb, on pelvis, When the limb is fixed, and the body is raised from a sitting into a standing posture, the gluteus acts as an extensor of the articulation by moving back the pelvis ; and in standing on one leg, the muscle can draw the sacrum towards the femur, so as to turn the face to the opposite side, andonkn^e. By tightening the ilio-tibial band, the gluteus maximus also supports and steadies the knee-joint in the extended position. In tliis action it is assisted by the tensor vagince fem oris, which corrects the tendency of the gluteus to draw the ilio-tibial band backwards. Divide the Dissection (fig. 206). The gluteus maximus is to be cut across^ nlaSimis. ^ little external to the middle ; and the depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia and some vessels beneath it. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer piece of the gluteus may be at once thrown towards its insertion; but the inner piece is to be carefully raised, and the branches of the inferior gluteal nerve, and of the gluteal and sciatic arteries entering its deep surface, are to be cleaned. clean parts The loose fat is then to be taken away from the hollow between beneath, ^^iq pelvis and the trochanter, Avithout injuring the vessels and nerves ; and the several muscles are to be cleaned, the fibres of each being made tense at the time of its dissection by rotating the femur. The vessels, nerves, and muscles, which are to be defined may be ascertained by referring to the enumeration below of the parts beneath the gluteus. In removing the areolar tissue from the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter, a bursa on each promi- nence of bone may be observed, remove Lastly, the fibres of the muscle are to be detached at their origin ; and the inner piece may be removed entirely by cutting through and dissect the vessels and nerves that enter it. In doing this the sacral nerves Iiervcs"^^ are to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres, and to be followed to thePARTS UNDER GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 641 •surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they will be after" wards seen. Parts beneath the gluteus (fig. 206). At its origin the gluteus Parts maximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part of the ilium, sacrum gf^^^eus at its origin Fig. 206.* and coccyx, also the ischial tuberosity with the origin of the ham- string luuscles (l) and the great sacro-sciatic ligament (k). At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur, with the great and inser- * Second view of the dissection of the buttock (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Glluteus medius. b. Pyrifonnis. c. Upper gemellus. D. Ob- turator internus. R, Lower gemellus. F. Obturator externus. a. Quad- ratus femoris. H. Adductor magnus. i. Vastus externus. J. Gluteus maximus, cut. k. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. l. Hamstring muscles. Arteries: a. Gluteal, superficial part. h. Sciatic, c. Internal circumflex, transverse branch, d. Pudic. e. Anastomotic branch of sciatic. /. First perforating. Nerves : 1. Last dorsal. 2. Upper gluteal. 3. Small sciatic ; above this are branches of the lower gluteal nerve, cut. 4. Pudic. 5. Nerve to obturator internus. 6. Great sciatic. 7. Inferior pudendal. 8. Cutaneous of the thigh of small sciatic. 9. Muscular branch of great sciatic. T T642 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. and by the intervening piece of the muscle. Trace sacral nerves. The sacral nerves are imited beneath gluteus: cutaneous offsets. Gluteus medius arises from hip-bone, and inserted into tro- chanter : relations trocliantei', and the origin of the vastus externus (i). Between the mnscle and the trochanter is a large, loose synovial membrane ; between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac ; and occasionally there is a third over the ischial tuberosity. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the muscle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned parts:— First, a portion of the gluteus medius (a) ; and below it the pyri- formis (b), with the superficial branch (a) of the gluteal vessels between the two. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the inferior gluteal nerve supplying the gluteus maximus, and the large and small sciatic nerves with the sciatic vessels, which descend to the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity; and internal to the sciatic are the pudic vessels and nerve {d, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle (d) with a fleshy fasciculus—the gemellus (c and e)—above and below it. Next comes the thin quadratus femoris muscle (g) with the upper part of the adductor niagnus (h) ; at the upper border of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator externus (f) ; and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, issues one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery (c) with its veins. Dissection. Tracing back the oftsets of the sacral nerves which perforate the gluteus, and removing a fibrous stratum which covers them, the looped arrangement of the first three nerves on the great sacro-sciatic ligament will appear. Finally, the nerves may be followed inwards beneath the multifidus spinte to the posterior sacral foramina. Sacral nerves. The external pieces of the posterior primary branches of the first three sacral nerves, after passing outwards beneath the multifidus spinse (p. 408), are joined by loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament (fig. 134). Two or three cutaneous oftsets are derived from this intercom- munication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on the surface (p. 638). The GLUTEUS MEDIUS (fig. 206, a) is triangular in form, with its base at the iliac crest, and apex at the femur. It arises from the outer surface of the ilium between the crest and the superior curved line above, and the middle curved line below ; and many sujDerficial fibres come from the strong fascia covering the front of the muscle. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into an impression across the outer surface of the great trochanter, extending from the tip behind to the root in front. The superficial surface is concealed in part by the gluteus maxi- mus ; and the deep is in contact with the gluteus minimus, and the gluteal vessels and nerve. The anterior border lies over the gluteus minimus, and is in contact with the tensor of the fascia lata. The posterior is contiguous to the pyriformis, only the superficial part of the gluteal vessels intervening. A small bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter.T T 2 GLUTEAL VESSELS. Action. The wliole muscle abducts the hanging femur ; and the use with anterior fibres rotate in the limb. hanging, Both limbs resting on the ground, the muscles assist in fixing the both limbs pelvis. In standing on one leg this gluteus will aid in balancing the pelvis on the top of the femur, and will draw the body over to in standing the same side. on one leg, In walking the fore part of the muscle acts in rotating the pelvis and walking, (jver the fixed limb. Dissection. When the gluteus medius is detached from the pelvis, Detach and partly separated from the gluteus minimus beneath, the gluteal medius to vessels and the superior o-luteal nerve will come into view. The two gluteal vgssgIs chief branches of the artery,—one being near the iliac crest, and the other lower down,—are to be traced beneath the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the main piece of the nerve is to be followed forwards to the tensor vaginae femoris nerve. muscle. The branches of the artery and nerve to the gluteus medius will be cut in removing that muscle. The GLUTEAL ARTERY is the largest branch of the internal iliac Gluteal (p. 564), and issues from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, ^^^^^^ where it at once divides into superficial and deep parts :— two^^^ The superficial part (fig. 206, a) penetrates the under surface of sypjj.ficiai the gluteus maximus and ramifies in that muscle. Some twigs pass inwards over the sacrum ; and others are given to the integuments. The deep 2^(^^^t (fig- 208, a) is the continuation of the artery, and and deep subdivides into two pieces which run between the two smaller glutei. One (superior ; h) courses along the upper border of the gluteus minimus (supplying mostly the medius) to the front of the iliac crest, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the exter- the latter nal circumflex artery. The other portion (inferior ; c) is directed and aVolver' forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, with the ^i^^^^'ch. nerve, towards the anterior lower iliac spine, where it enters the tensor of the fascia lata, and communicates with the external cir- cumflex branch, (p. 627): many offsets are furnished to the gluteus minimus, and some pierce that muscle to supply the hip-joint. Vein. The companion vein with the artery enters the j)elvis, and Gluteal ends in the internal iliac vein. The SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE (fig. 208, ^) is the highest branch Superior of the sacral plexus, and arises from the lumbo-sacral cord and the nervT^ first sacral nerve (p. 570). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and divides into two for the supply of the gluteus medius and minimus ; ismuscuiiu-. its lower branch terminates anteriorly in the tensor vaginse femoris (b). The GLUTEUS MINIMUS (fig. 208, c) is triangular in shape, and Gluteus ^ ° ^ ■'- ' minimus: arises from the dorsum of the ilium between the middle and inferior curved lines, extending backwards as far as the middle of the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch. Its tendon is inserted attach- into an impression along the fore part of the great trochanter, where ' it is united inferiorly with the gluteus medius : some fibres are attached to the capsule of the hip-joint. One surface is in contact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal relations;DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. use like medius. Divide smallest gluteus ; trace deep Posterior head of tlie rectus. Origin of pyrifonuis: insertion; relations in foramen. in buttock use with femur hang- ing, and raised; both limbs on ground, only one. Dissect out the chief vessels and nei-ves, and miis- cular branches. vessels and nerve ; the otlier with the hip-bone, the hip-joint, and the onter head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the gluteus medius ; and the posterior is covered by the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is placed between the tendon and the bone. Action. This muscle agrees in its action with the gluteus medius; but as it reaches farther backwards, the hinder fibres may also have some influence in rotating out the hanging femur. Dissection. Cut through the smallest gluteal muscle near the ilium, and define the tendinous portion of the rectus femoris under- neath it, close above the hip-joint. While detaching the gluteus from the parts underneath, the student will notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be obser^'ed and followed as the muscle is removed. The posterior or reflected head of the rectus femoris is a tendon as wide as the little finger, and about two inches long, which is fixed into the impression above the margin of the acetabulum. In front it joins the straight head, which is attached to the anterior inferior iliac spine ; and its lower border is connected with the capsule of the hip-joint. The PYRIFORMIS (fig. 206, b) arises in the pelvis from the front of the sacrum (p. 594), and leaves that cavity through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Outside the pelvis it ends in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter, between the two smaller glutei. The muscle occupies the greater part of the sacro-sciatic foramen, and divides the vessels and nerves passing through that aperture into two groups :—Above it are the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve ; and below it the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves, and some other branches of the sacral plexus. Its upper border is contiguous to the gluteus medius ; and its lower, to the superior gemellus. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion ; it rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip-joint. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. Action. The pyriformis rotates out the femur when that bone is in a line with the trunk ; but if the hip-joint is bent it abducts the limb. Both limbs being fixed, the muscles balance the pelvis, and help to make the trunk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyriformis turns the face to the opposite side. Dissection. The pyriformis may be cut across and raised towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the sciatic and pudic vessels, and to trace the accompanying nerves to their origin from the sacral plexus. A small nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 208, ^) and gemellus superior (") is to be sought in the fat at the lower border of the645 SCIATIC AND PUDIC VESSELS. plexus. A branch to the quadratus and inferior gemellus (^) may be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but this will be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have been seen. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. The arteries on the back of the The vessels pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the internal tueTiiac"^ iliac (p. 565). The sciatic artery (fig. 206, h) supplies the buttock below the sciatic gluteal. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it a^'tery: descends with the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator internus muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus: course here the artery gives off many branches with the superficial offsets and emliug; of its companion nerve ; and much reduced in size, it is continued with that nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes the following branches :— branches;— a. The coccygeal branch, arises close to the pelvis, perforates the coccygeal; great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum and coccyx. b. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) is branch t« very slender, and entering the nerve near the pelvis, ramifies in it ^len^e^; along the thigh. c. Muscular branches enter tlie gluteus maximus, the upper muscular; gemellus, and obturator internus ; and by means of a branch to the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the hip-joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (fig. 206, e). Varymg in size, this artery anasto- is directed outwards to the root of the great trochanter, where it anastomoses with the internal circumfiex and first perforating arteries. The internal pudic artery (fig. 206, d) belongs to the perineum pvidic and the genital organs: it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to which ^^'teiy it lies. Only the small part of the vessel which winds over the ischial crosses the spine is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the perineal f^i^^] space through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, and is there dis- tributed (p.'42 7). It supplies a small branch over the back of the sacrum, which offsets, anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries ; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The vei7is with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive tributaries veius. corresponding with the branches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves. The nerves appearing at the back of the pelvis, below Nerves come the pyriformis, are derived from the sacral plexus (p. 568) ; the pi^xur*''^'^^ largest are furnished to parts beyond the gluteal region, but some are distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. The inferior gluteal nerve is larger than the superior, and inferior arises from the upper part of the sacral plexus (fig. 207, i g). The f}uteul**^ short trunk is directed backwards below the pyriformis, and divides maximus. into numerous branches which radiate upwards and downwards.646 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. and enter the gluteus niaxinins midway between its origin and insertion. ^maiiscmtic The SMALL SCIATIC (fig. 206,^) is a cutaneous nerve of the back ous nerve ;* of the thigh. It springs from the second and third sacral nerves (fig. 207, ss), and takes the course of the sciatic arterv as far as the Fig. 207.* lower border of the great gluteus, where it gives many cutaneous branches. Much diminished in size at that spot, the nerve is con- tinued along the back of the thigh beneath the fascia, and ends ends in the below the knee in the integuments of the back of the leg (p. 668). leg; rpj^g branches distributed to, or near the buttock, are the follow- ing :— ascending The ascending or gluteal cutaneous branches (fig. 205) turn upwards round the border of the gluteus maxim us, and are distributed to the skin over the lower third of the muscle. * Diagram of the sacral plexus from behind. LSC. Lumbo-sacral cord formed by the fifth lumbar nerve and a small branch from the fourth. SI to S V. First to fifth sacral nerves, g s. Great sciatic nerve, s s. Small sciatic, s g. Superior gluteal. i g. Inferior gluteal, p. Pudic. p c. Perforating cutaneous, py. Branch to pyriformis. o i. Nerve to obturator intemus. q. Nerve to quadratus femoris. The remaining references are explained on p. 569.BRANCHES OF THE SACIiAL PLEXUS. ^47 The descending cutaneous branches (fig. 205,^) supply tlie integu- and iiients of tlie upper tliird of the thigh at the inner and posterior aspects. One of these branches (fig. 206/), which is larger than the branches; others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior inferior pudendal (p. 431) ; as it courses to the perineum, it turns below the nervT*^^^ ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner side of the thigh to end in the scrotum. The GREAT SCIATIC (fig. 206,*^) is the largest nerve in the bodv. Great sciatic *^ I16rV6 * It is the source of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous ^^^^.^^ . branches to the limb beyond the knee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the sacral plexus (fig. 207, g s). It is directed through the buttock to the back of course in the thigh, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the no branch in buttock, but it may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip- ^'^ region, joint. Frequently the nerve is divided into two large trunks at its origin, and one of them (the external popliteal) pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. The PUDic NERVE (fig. 206,^^) winds over the small sacro-sciatic Pudic nerve, ligament by the side of its companion artery, and is distributed with this vessel to the perineum and the genital organs (p. 427). No branch is supplied to the buttock. Small MUSCULAR branches of the sacral r^lexus are furnished to Muscular ^ branches: the external rotators except the obturator externus. The branch to the pyriformis is seen in the dissection of the sacral to 1 • +1 1 • / R-A\ pyriformis; plexus m the pelvis (p. 5/0). The nerve to the obturator interims (fio-. 208,'') arises from the to obturator ^ o 7 / mternus and up2)er part of the plexus, and is directed to its muscle through the superior small sacro-sciatic foramen with the pudic vessels : it gives off" a g®™^^^*^^' small twig to the superior gemellus ('). The nerve to the qaadratus femoris (fig. 208,") is a slender branch, toquadratus wliich passes with a companion artery beneath the gemelli and the gemeUus. obturator to the anterior surface of its muscle. This branch will be seen more fully in a subsequent dissection, when offsets from it to the inferior gemellus and the hip-joint may be traced. Dissection. To see the remaining external rotator muscles, hook aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the branches of the sciatic artery if it is necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be rotated inwards. The gemelli are to be separated from tiie tendon of the obturator internus. The SUPERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 206, c) is the higher of the two ^^^P^^ muscular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator muscle. Internally it arises from the outer and lower part of the ischial spine, and externally it is inserted with the obturator into the great trochanter. Occasionally the muscle is absent. The INFERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 206, e) is larger than its fellow, inferior ... r> 1 . 1 • 1 1 •, gemellus: Its origin is connected with the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, along the lower edge of the groove for the obturator internus muscle ; and its insertion is in common with the obturator tendon. This bo^^^i'^"... serted with obturator; lor gemellus.^48 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. gemellus. 7. Branch to upper gemellus. 8. Great sciatic. muscle is placed between the obturator internus and quadratus, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator externus conies into contact with its lower border. Fig. 208.* use to help Action. These small fleshy slips are but accessory pieces of origin to the internal obturator, with which they combine in use. (Obturator The OBTURATOR INTERNUS (fig. 206, d) arises from the hip-bone * Third view of the dissection of the buttock (Ilhistrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Gluteus maximus, cut. b. Tensor fascias latae. c. Grluteus minimus. D. Grluteus medius, cut. F. Pyriformis. g. Gemellus superior. H. Obturator internus, cut. i. Gemellus inferior, k, Quadratus femoris. cut. L. Obturator externus. n. Adductor magnus. 0. Hamstrings, p. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Arteries: a. Gluteal, b. Its upper, and c, its lower piece, d. Sciatic, e. Pudic. /, Internal circumflex, g. Its ascending, and h, its transverse offset, i. First perforating. I:. External circumflex. Nerves: 1. Superior gluteal. 2. Sacral. 3. Small sciatic, cut. 4. Pudic. 5. Nerve to obturator internus. 6. Nerve to quadratus and inferior649 INTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. oritrm: inside the pelvis (p. 594), and passes to tlie exterior through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. The tendon of the muscle is directed ^^^^1^? outwards over the hip-joint, and is inserted with the gemelli, iii ingej-^iou • front of the pyriformis, into the inner side of the great trochanter, at the upper and fore part. Outside the pelvis the obturator is mostly tendinous, and is relations; embraced by the gemelli muscles, which near the pelvis meet be- neath the tendon ; but near the trochanter they cover it. Crossing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves and the sciatic vessels ; and covering the whole is the gluteus maximus. On tendon is cutting through the tendon and raising the inner end, it will be thredge^oV found divided into four or five pieces as it turns over the ischium ti^e pelvis; (fig. 208, h) ; at this spot the bone is covered with cartilage, which forms ridges corresponding to the intervals between the tendinous slips, and the surfaces are lubricated iDy a synovial sac. There is sometimes another bursa between the tendon and the hip-joint. Action. The action of this muscle is in all respects the same as , that of the pyriformis (p. 644). pyn i» i-''- The QUADRATUS TEMORis (fig. 206, g) is situate between the j^^^J^^^j^^^^^^ inferior gemellus and the adductor magnus. Internally it arises from the outer border of the ischial tuberosity for two inches, by the side of the semimembranosus and adductor magnus ; externally it is inserted into an eminence on the posterior intertrochanteric insertion; ridge of the femur (tubercle of the quadratus), and along a line on the upper end of that bone for about one inch and a half, above the attachment of the great adductor. By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic vessels and nerves, P'^i'ts over and the gluteus maximus. By the other it rests on the obturator externus, the internal circumflex vessels, and its small nerve and vessels. Between its lower border and the adductor mamus the an'^at lower bonier; transverse branch of the internal circumflex artery issues. Between it and the small,trochanter is a bursa, which is also common to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Action. The quadratus diflers from the foregoing muscles of the "se. same group in being able to rotate out the femur when the hip-joint is bent, as well as in the extended position; and it will assist slightly in adducting the limb. Dissection (fig. 208). The quadratus and the gemelli muscles may ^^^^^^^y. be now cut across, in order that their small nerve and artery, the and gemelli. ending of the internal circumflex artery, and the obturator externus may be dissected out. The INTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX branch (fig. 208,/) of the profunda Jj^j,*^^™^^^^^^ artery (p. 634) divides finally into two pieces. One (ascending; g) artery runs beneath the quadratus (in this position of the body) to the pit of the trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic ends in two arteries, and sujjplies the bone. The other {transverse; h) passes between the quadratus and adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles, and communicates with the perforating arteries. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 208, l) lias been dissected at its obturator ^ ° ^ ^ externus650 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. is inserted into pit of trochanter; relations; Sacro-sciatic ligaments: large, and small form two foramina : small, -with contents; large, and parts pass- ing through it. origin in the front of the tliigli (p. 636). The part of the muscle now laid bare winds below the hip-joint, and ascends to be inserted into the pit at the root of the trochanter. On the back of the pelvis the obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur where it is exposed between that muscle and the inferior gemellus (fig. 206, r). Its deep surface is in contact with the capsule of the hip-joint and the neck of the femur. Action. Like the quadratus fem oris, it rotates out the femur in all positions of the limb : it is also to a slight extent an adductor and flexor of the hip-joint. The SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS pass froiu the sacrum and coccyx to the ischium : they are two in number, and are named great and small. The great or interior ligament (fig. 208, p) is attached above to the posterior inferior iliac spine, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and below, to the inner margin of the ischial tuberosity, sending forwards a prolongation along the ramus of the bone : some of the superficial fi[l)res are continued over the tuberosity into the long head of the biceps. It is wide next the sacrum, and becomes narrower below ; but it is somewhat expanded again at the tuberosity. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maxi- mus conceals and takes origin from it. Branches (jf the sciatic artery and a cutaneous nerve from the sacral plexus perforate it. The small or anterior ligament passes from the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial spine. This band is more fully seen in the dissection of the pelvis (p. 597). These ligaments convert the deej) sacro-sciatic notch of the dried pelvis into two foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the hip-bone is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal obturator muscle with its nerve and vessels, and the pudic vessels and nerve. And above the smaller ligament is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis muscle, with the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves, the inferior gluteal nerve, and the nerves to the obturator intemus and quadratus femoris below it. Section III. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. Directions. The ham or popliteal space may be taken after the buttock, in order that it may be seen in a less disturbed state than if it was dissected after the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt, the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. Position. The limb should be raised into the horizontal position. Take the Dissection (fi^ 209). To remove the skin from the popliteal skin from \ o / i r651 ANATOMY OF THE HAM. region, let a longitudinal incision be luadc beliind the knee for the over the distance of six inches above, and four inches below the joint. At each extremity of this cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two flaps, the one being turned outwards and the other inwards. In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves, viz., one or two twigs seektiie in the middle line of the limb from the small sciatic nerve beneath ^^^f"!^^^^ iicr> Co. the fascia ; and some offsets of the internal cutaneous nerve towards the inner side. After the subcutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. Fascia lata. Where this fascia covers the popliteal space it is Fascia of strengthened by transverse fibres, particularly on the outer side ; over the and it is connected laterally with the tendons bounding that iiam. interval. The short saphenous vein perforates it opposite the knee, or a little lower down. Dissection (fig. 209). The fascia over the ham is now to be Remove removed without injuring the small sciatic ner^'e and accompanying artery, and the short saphenous vein, which are close beneath it. A and take the large quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without hamr'"*'^ injury to the several small vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large inter- seek the nal popliteal nerve in the middle, and the external popliteal on the th"s*j^ace outer side. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous ofi'sets of the inner will be recognized more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction : in fat bodies the two small nerves from the inner popliteal trunk to the knee-joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve from the external 2>opliteal. In the bottom of the space are the po})liteal vi-ssels, the vein being Clean tlie more superficial than the artery. The ,-tudent is to seek an articular ^^^^^ ^' branch (superior) on each side, close aljove the condyle of the femur, and to clean numerous other branches uf the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the calf. On the upper part of the find obtu- artery, the branch of nerve from the obturator to the knee-joint is ^'^^^^ to be found ; and on the sides of the artei-y are three or four lym- and glands, phatic glands in the fat. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced in tlieir natural position on the iinier side. The POPLITEAL SPACE, or ham (fig. 209), is the hollow behind The ham: the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large vessels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the situation form of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one-third of the femur, and downwards along one-sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condition the muscles on the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited to the region imme- diately above the joint. This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the boundaries, limb; and the lateral boundaries are therefoie formed by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer outer side, is the biceps muscle {^) as far as the joint, and the plantarisd52 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and inner; limit abov( and below superficial and deep boundaries: greatest width anc depth; contents. Popliteal ai-terj': extent; only a small part in space. Fig. 209.= and the external head of the gastrocnemius (^) beyond that spot. On the inner side, as low as the articulation, are the semimembra- nosus {^) and semitendinosus muscles with the gracilis and sartorius between them and the femur ; and beyond the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius ('). The upper point of the ham is formed by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstrings ; and at the lower point the heads of the gas- trocnemius touch each other. Stretched over the cavity are the fascia lata and the integuments. In the deep boundary, or the lioor, are tlie following things,—the surface on the back of the femur included between the lines to the condyles (popliteal surface), the posterior liga- ment of the knee-joint, and ]Dart of the popliteal muscle with the upper end of the tibia. The popliteal space is widest and deepest immediately above the fe- moral condyles. Above and below it communicates,beneath the muscles, with the back of the thigh and leg. In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels with their branches, and the ending of the external sa- phenous vein ; the popliteal trunks of the great sciatic nerve, and some of their branches; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quan- tity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superficially in the ham; and a branch of the obturator nerve lies on the artery in the bottom of the space. The POPLITEAL ARTERY (fig. 209, ^) is the continuation of the femoral, and reaches from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. A portion of the artery lies in the popliteal space, and is not covered by muscle ; but both above and below, it is concealed by the muscles bounding the hollow. The description of the artery may be conveniently divided into two parts,—one reaching to the lower limit of the ham, and the other being beneath the gastrocnemius. * View of the popliteal space (Quain's Arteries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Internal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. 4. Semimembranosus muscle. 5. Semitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps muscle. 7, 8. Inner and outer heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The superficial vein on the gastro- cnemius is the short saphenous, which enters the popliteal.POPLITEAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 653 As far as the ham the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner The part in side of the limb to the interval between the condyles of the femur, " and is then directed along the middle of the space over the knee- course and joint. The artery is overlain by the belly of the semimembranosus ^"^^^^^'"^"'^' muscle to within an inch of the internal condyle ; but thence onwards it is situate between the lieads of tlie gastrocnemius, and is covered only by the fascia lata and the integuments. Beneath it is the femur, with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. In contact with the vessel, and somewhat on the outer side at lirst, lies the popliteal vein, so that on looking into the space, the ' arterial trunk is almost covered ; but in the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches altogether conceal the artery. In the lower part of the ham the short saphen- ous vein (fig. 210, i) and the muscular branches of the artery are also superficial to the popliteal trunk. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to and of the them in position, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which, with its branches, lies over the artery, like the vein, between the heads of the gastrocnemius. In the bottom of the hollow the small obturator nerve runs on the artery to the joint. Dissection. To see the deep part of the artery, the inner head of Cut inner the gastrocnemius should be cut through and raised. On removing gastrocne- the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves vnll appear. The lower articular branches of the vessels and nerve are now brought into view ;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer, higher up, between the femur and tibia, each with a vein ; and the first has a companion nerve. Beyond the ham. While the artery is beneath tlie (jastrocneiaius ^^^'^^'^y'^^^- (fig. 215) it sinks deeply into the limb ; here it is crossed by a small '^""^ ' muscle—the plantaris (c), and the ending is concealed by the soleus (b). It rests on the popliteus muscle. Botli the companion vein and the internal popliteal nerve change position of their position to the artery, and gradually cross over it, so as to iierve""^ lie on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Sometimes the artery is divided as high as the back of the knee-joint ; and ^^^^ then the anterior tibial artei-y may lie beneath the popliteus muscle. li vision. Branches (fig. 210) are furnished by the artery to the surround- ^^^^^^!^}^^'^ ing muscles, to the integuments, and to the articulation;—those that belong to the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz., two superior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or azygos branch. a. The muscular branches are upper and lower. The uj^per set, Muscular three or four in number, arise above the knee, and end in the semi- membranosus and biceps muscles, communicating with the perforat- ing and muscular branches of the profunda. The lower set (sural) are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris. b. The cutaneous or superficial sural branches descend to the skin and cuta-DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 654 Articular branches are five :— Two s iiperior: external: internal. Two inferior: external; internal. And one central artery. Popliteal position to the artery; branches. Popliteal nerves are two, inner and outer. Internal popliteal of the calf of tlie leg : they are usually three in numl)er, one in the middle line, and one over each head of the gastrocnemius. c. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above the condyles of the femur; they are directed almost transversely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the bone to the front of the joint. The external branch (k) perforates the intermuscular septum, and divides in the substance of the crureus. Some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circumtiex (of the profunda) ; others descend to the joint and anastomose with the lower external articular artery ; and one offset forms an arch across the front with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery (I), oftentimes very small, winds beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in the vastus in- ternus ; it supplies this and the knee-joint, and communicates with the deep part of the anastomotic artery. (/. The inferior articular arteries (fig. 215) lie beneath the gastro- cnemius, but are not on the same level on opposite sides of the limb ; for the inner one descends below the internal tuberosity of the tibia, while the outer one is })laced above the head of the fibula. Eacli lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. The external branch (c) supplies the outer side of the knee-joint, anastomosing with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent brancli of the anterior tibial artery ; it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the j^atella to join a twig from one of the internal branches. The internal artery (b) ramities over the front of the internal tuberosity of tlie tibia, and anastomoses with the upper internal and lower external articular branches, and with the superficial branch of the anastomotic arteiy. e. The azygos branch enters the joint through the posterior liga- ment, and is distriluited to the ligamentous structures, the fat, and the synovial membrane of the interior. The POPLITEAL VEIN (fig. 210, h) originates in the union of the anterior and posterior tibial vena3 comites, and has the same extent and relations as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is internal to the arterial trunk ; between the heads of the gastrocnemius, it is superficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it lies to the outer side of, and close to, the artery. It is joined by branches corresponding with those of the artery, as well as by the short saphenous vein. The Popliteal Nerves (fig. 209) are the two large trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh (p. 658), and are named internal and external. Each furnishes cutaneous and articular offsets, but only the inner one supplies branches to muscles. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (^) is larger than the external, and occupies the middle of the ham : its relations are similar to those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly superficial, and partlyPOPLITEAL NEEVES AND BRANCHES. covered by the gastrocnemius. The nerve is continued to the back of the leg ; but it retains the name popliteal only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position to the vessels has been branches already noticed. The branches arising from it are the following :— a. Two small articular twigs (fig. 210,^) are furnished to the two knee-joint with the vessels. One accompanies the low^er internal *' articular artery to the front of the articulation, and is the larger ; the other takes the same course as the azygos artery, and enters the back of the joint with it. h. Muscular branches arise from the nerves between the heads of four the gastrocnemius. One is furnished to each head of the gastro- ' cnemius, and the outer of these usually supplies the plantaris. Another descends beneath the gastrocnemius, and enters the posterior surface of the soleus. And a fourth penetrates the popliteus at the anterior aspect, after turning round the lower border. c. The tibial communicating branch (fig. 214,^) is a cutaneous and one offset to the leg and foot. It lies beneath the fascia, and between ti^g^^^iai^' the heads of the gastrocnemius, as far as the middle of the leg, communi- where it becomes superficial, and unites with the peroneal com- municating branch of the external popliteal, to form the short, saphenous nerve (p. 666). The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (peroneal ; fig. 209,^) lies External along the outer boundary of the ham, and is at first concealed by ^g^ve^f*^ the edge of the biceps muscle ; becoming superficial, it is continued over the outer head of the gastrocnemius, following the hinder border course of the biceps tendon, until it is below the head of the fibula. There and ending; it enters the fibres of the peroneus longus, and divides beneath that muscle into two—miisculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial. Its branches, branches are articular and cutaneous :— a. The articular nerve, arising high in the space, runs with the articular, upper external articular artery to the outer side of the knee, and sends a twig along the lower articular artery : both enter the joint. b. The peroneal communicating branch (fig. 214,"*) soon pierces peroneal the fascia, and descends over the outer head of the gastrocnemius to catar-^"' join the tibial communicating from the internal popliteal in the short saphenous nerve. c. One or two external cutaneous branches arise either in common and external with the preceding or separately, and supply the skin of the outer of le^.^^"*' side of the leg, reaching nearly to the external malleolus. The ARTICULAR BRANCH OF THE OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 210,") Articular perforates the adductor magnus (p. 633), and is conducted by the obturator'"' popliteal artery to the back of the knee. After supplying filaments to the vessels, the nerve enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. The POPLiTElL LYMPHATIC GLANDS are situate round the large Lymphatic arterial trunk. Two or three are ranged on the sides ; while one ll-ound the is superficial to, and another beneath the vessel: they are joined by artery, the deep lymphatic vessels, and by the superficial set with the' external saphenous vein.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 656 THE BACK OP THE THIGH. Dissect the back of the thish. Seek out cutaneous nerves; clean mus- cles and nerves. Three mus- cles on bacl< of thigh: liieeps nrises by a long and a short head; is inserted into the libula and tibia; relations; use on knee and hip- joints, on pelvis. and femur. Semitendi- nosus is attached to pelvis and tibia : parts in contact with it: Dissection (fig. 210). After the popliteal space, the student may proceed with the dissection of the back of the thigh. The liml> being replaced in the hanging position, the piece of skin between the buttock and the ham should be divided and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the outer side of the limb fine off"set5 of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh may be found ; and along the middle some filaments from the small sciatic nerve pierce the fascia. Kemove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of the small sciatic nerve and its artery. Lastly, clean the hamstring muscles ; trace the j)erforating and anastomotic arteries from the front of the thigh ; and clean tlie branches of the great sciatic nerve to the muscles. MXTSCLES. The muscles behind the femur are flexors of the knee- joint. They reach from the pelvis to the bones of the leg, and are named hamstrings from the cord-like appearance on the sides of the ham. They are three in number, viz., biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. The first of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. The BICEPS (fig. 210, d) has two heads of origin, long and short, which are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from the upper and inner impression on the ischial tuberosity, in common with the semitendinosus muscle. The short head is fixed to the femur below the gluteus maximus, viz., to all the linea asj^era, and to the upper three-fourths of the line leading to the outer condyle, as well as to the external intermuscular septum. The fibres end below in a tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibula by two slips which embrace the external lateral ligament ; and a slight piece is prolonged to the head of the tibia. The muscle is superficial, except at the origin, where it is covered by the gluteus maximus ; it rests on the upper end of the semimem- branosus, on the great sciatic nerve, and on the adductor magnus muscle. On the inner side are the semitendinosus and semimem- branosus as far as the ham. Its tendon gives an off"set to the deej) fascia of the limb. Action. It can bend the knee if the leg-bones are not fixed, and afterwards rotate out the tibia ; and the long head will extend the bent hip-joint when the knee is straight. The leg being supported on the ground, the long head will assist in balancing and erecting the pelvis; and the short head will draw down the femur so as to bend the knee in stooping. The SEMITENDINOSUS (fig. 210, e) is a slender muscle and receives its name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosit}' of the ischium with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy fibres from the tendon of that muscle. Inferiorly it is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for a similar extent. This muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered by the gluteusTHE HAMSTRING MUSCLES. maximus. About its middle an oblique tendinous intersection may be observed. It rests on the semimembranosus, and on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The outer border is in contact Fig. 210.* * Dissection of the back of the thigh (Ilkistrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Gluteus maximus, cut below, and partly raised, b. Quadratus femoris. c. Adductor magnus. d. Biceps. E. Semitendinosus. i". Semimembranosus. G. Outer, and h, inner head of the gastrocnemius. Vessels : a. Sciatic artery. b. Ending of internal circumflex to hamstrings, c. First, d, second, and e, third perforating arteries. /. Muscular branch of profunda. (/. Popliteal artery. Ji. Popliteal vein. i. Short saphenous vein. k. Upper external, and I, upper internal articular artery. Nerves: 1. Small sciatic, cut. 2. Large sciatic. 3. Branch to hamstrings from large sciatic. 4. External popliteal. 5. Communicating peroneal. 7. Articular branch of obturator to knee. 8. Internal popliteal. 9. Articular branch to knee of the internal popliteal. 10. Tibial communicating. IT U658 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and hip- joints, on tlie pelvis. Semimem- branosus reaches from pelvis to tibia: around it: use on knee and hip- joints, on pelvis. Great sciatic nerve in the thigh supplies muscles. Small sciatic in the thigh ; cutaneous offsets. "Detach the liamstrings. with the biceps as far as the lower third of the thigh. As the tendon turns forwards to its insertion, an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gracilis, on a level with the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated from the internal lateral ligament by a bursa. Action. If the leg is movable, the muscle bends the knee and rotates inwards the tibia. Supposing the knee-joint straight but the hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by this and the other hamstrings. Should the limbs be fixed on the ground, the muscle will assist in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk from a stooping posture. The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS MUSCLE (fig. 210, f) is tendinous at both ends, and receives its name from the membraniform appearance of the upper tendon. The muscle arises from the upper and outer impression on the ischial tuberosity ; and it is inserted below into the inner and hinder part of the head of the tibia. The muscle is thick and fleshy below, where it bounds the popliteal space. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged, together with the long head of the biceps, in a hollow in the upper tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor magnus. Along the outer border is first the great sciatic, and then the internal popliteal nerve. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the knee-joint (p. 699). Action. This hamstring is united with the preceding in its action, for it bends the knee and rotates in the tibia; and with the knee straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after the femur has been carried forwards. When the foot rests on the ground, the semimembranosus acts on the pelvis like the other hamstring muscles. The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 210,^) lies on the adductor mag- nus muscle below the buttock, and divides into the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, though its point of bifurcation may be carried upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps. Branches. Near the buttock it supplies large branches to the flexor muscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. Small sciatic nerve (fig. 210, ^). Between the gluteus maximus and the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia ; but it becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short distance. Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia ; and the largest of these arises near the popliteal space. Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, and the branches of the perforating and anastomotic arteries, the hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip-bone and thrown down ; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to be cleaned.659 BRANCHES OF PEOFUNDA AETERY. Adductor magnus muscle (fig. 210, c). At its iDosterior aspect Posterior the large adductor is altogether fleshy, even at the opening for the adductor^ femoral artery ; and the fibres from the pubic arch appear to form "lagnus. a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the ischium. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. End of the PERFORATINa ARTERIES (fig. 210, C, cl, e). These Perforating branches of the profunda appear through the adductor magnus close ^'"^'^^^^^ • to the femur, and are directed out through the short head of the course biceps and the outer intermuscular septum to the vastus externus •and crureus muscles ; but as the first branch is placed higher than the attachment of the biceps, it pierces the gluteus maximus in its €0urse. In the extensor muscles they anastomose together, and and ending; with the transverse and descending branches of the external circum- flex artery. Muscular branches are furnished by the perforating arteries to ^^^^^^ the heads of the biceps ; and a cutaneous oftset is given by each the skin, to the integuments of the outer side of the thigh, along the line of the outer intermuscular septum. Anastomotic BRANCHES of the profunda (fig. 210,/), pierce-A-nastomotic the adductor magnus internal to the preceding, and at some distance ^ from the femur (p. 634). Three or four in number, the highest number and appears about five inches from the pelvis, and the rest in a line at intervals of about two inches from one another : they are distributed to the hamstring muscles, especially the semimembranosus, and communicate below with offsets of the popliteal trunk. The Hip-Joint. This articulation is a ball and socket joint, the ^'j^j.^^^^j. head of the femur being received into the acetabulum of the hip- bone. Connecting the bones are the following ligaments ;—one to its liga- tleepen the receiving cavity, which is named cotyloid ; another between the articular surfaces of the bones—the interarticular; and -a capsule around all. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the back of the hip-joint, and the areolar tissue is to be removed from the upper behimT,''^^ ^ -and lower attachments of the capsular ligament. Next, the front of the joint should be cleaned with the body and in front; turned over for a short time, if this change in position does not interfere with the other dissections. In the capsule itseK the student has to define a wide thick define its part in front, and a transverse band near the neck of the femur behind. The capsular ligament (fig. 211) is a thick fibrous case, which Capsule: encloses the head and the greater part of the neck of the femur. Its upper margin is attached to the circumference of the acetabulum attach- close to the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous band over ^^^^^^ ^^"^"^^ the notch at the lower part of the cavity. Its lower margin is and below; inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric line (fig. 211) ; behind, by a very thin piece, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter and the posterior inter- trochanteric line (fig. 212) ; and above, into the neck near the great 17 U 2DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 660 thickness varies. Ilio-femoral ligament: attach- ments : trochanter. The capsule differs much in strength, and in th& arrangement of the fibres at the fore and hinder parts. On the front it is strengthened by a broad and thick layer of longitudinal fibres—the ilio femoral ligament (fig. 211, a, c). This is fixed above, where it is about an inch broad, to the lower part of the anterior inferior iliac spine and to a rough mark continued backwards therefrom on the outer surface of the ilium immediately above the acetabulum. Becoming wider below, it is inserted into- the whole length of the anterior intertrochanteric line ; and its fibres division; generally form two stronger bands, which are attached at the upper and lower ends respectively of the intertrochanteric line, with a thinner part in the middle : from this arrangement the name of the Y liga- and use ment has also been given to it. From its position, the ilio-femoral ligament will arrest extension of the joint; and when the femur is fixed in standing it will support the pelvis. Pubo- inner and fore part of the joint is a much smaller ^orai band (fig. 211, &), which extends from the prominent portion of the pubis internal to the acetabulum to the lower end of the anterior intertrochanteric line, and is named the pubo-femoral ligament. Thin part of Between the ilio-femoral and pubo-femoral ligaments, near the capsule. hip-bone, the capsule is very thin, and sometimes presents an open- * Fore part of the capsule of the hip-joint, a, c. Ilio-femoral ligament, J>. Pubo-femoral band.LIGAMENTS OF HIP-JOIx\T. 661 ing, through which the bursa under the ilio-psoas communicates with the joint-cavity. At the back of the capsule is a band of transverse fibres Circular (fig. 212, h), about half an inch wide, which arches like a collar ofcapsvde^:^ Fig. 212.* over the'neck of the femur. By its lower edge it is united to the bone by a thin layer (c) of fibrous tissue and synovial membrane ; at the upper edge it is joined by the longitudinal capsular fibres (a). It gives insertion to the longitudinal fibres of the capsule, and pre- use. vents that restriction of the swinging movement which would result from their insertion into the hinder part of the neck. Posteriorly the joint is covered by the obturator internus and ^"^^^^^ gemelli muscles ; and anteriorly by the rectus femoris and ilio- psoas. Above is the gluteus minimus, the tendon of which is united to the capsule ; and below is the obturator externus. Dissection (fig. 213). The capsular ligament is now to be divided Cut open over the prominence of the head of the femur, and this bone being disarticulated but not detached, the cotyloid and interarticular liga- ments inside it will appear. The interarticular or round ligament is attached to the acetabulum Define round by two pieces ; and to bring these into view, the synovial membrane and areolar tissue must be removed. The transverse ligament over the notch is also to be defined. the capsule. ligament. * Hinder part of h. Transverse band, half way down. the capsule of the hip-joint, a. Longitudinal fibres, c. Thin piece attached to the neck of the femur about662 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Cotyloid ligament attached roimd acetabulum Transverse ligament forms a hole with bone. Round ligament: shape and attach- ments how to see its action; loose in extension; tight in flexion with adduction or rotation out. Synovial membrane. Detach the limb. The cotyloid ligament (fig. 197, g) is a narrow band of fibro- cartilage, whicli is fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is prolonged across the notch below, so as to form part of the trans- verse ligament. Its fibres are not continued around the acetabulum, . but are fixed to the margin of the cavity, and cross one another in the band. It is thickest at its attachment to the bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free margin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This ligament fills up the hollows in the rim of the acetabulum,, deepens the socket for the femur, and makes a flexible margin to the cavity, which can yield slightly when the neck of the femur i& pressed against it. The transverse ligament (fig. 197) bridges across the notch in the margin of the acetabulum. It consists partly of deep special fibres (Ii) which are attached to the margins of the notch ; and partly of a superficial bundle from the cotyloid ligament (g). Beneath it is an aperture by which vessels and nerves enter the acetabulum to supply the synovial membrane and the fat in the bottom of that hollow. The interarticular ligament (ligamentum teres; fig. 213, 6) is a band abou.t an inch long, but of very variable thickness, which con- nects the head of the femur with the hip-bone. The ligament has a triangular form, the apex of the triangle being fixed to the pit on the head of the femur, and the base joining the transverse ligament. The free sides of the triangle are formed by two fibrous bundles, an anterior or pubic (c), which is attached with the transverse ligament to the pubic edge of the cotyloid notch, and a posterior or ischial {d)^, which is stronger, and is inserted beneath the transverse ligament into the ischial border of the notch. To see the condition of the interarticular ligament in the difi'erent movements of the joint, it should be examined in a specimen in which the capsule is entire, and the floor of the acetabulum has been cut out mth a chisel from inside the pelvis. During extension of the joint the ligament is relaxed ; and it cannot be tightened so long as the fully extended position is main- tained. In flexion of the joint the ligament is rendered somewhat tighter ; but it is only fully stretched when, with the joint bent, the femur is adducted or rotated out: the pubic fasciculus of the band is especially tightened by the adduction, and the ischial slip by the outward rotation. A synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued along the neck of the femur to the margin of the articular surface. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation ; and it surrounds the ligamentum teres. Dissection. To see the surface of the acetabulum, the lower limb is to be separated from the trunk by dividing the interarticular ligament, and by cutting through any parts that connect it to the pelvis ; at this stage the pelvic attachments of the interarticular ligament can be better displayed.MOVEMENTS OF HIP-JOINT. 663 Surfaces of hone. The articular surfaces of the bones are not Articular completely covered with cartilage. surface of In the head of the femur is a pit into which the round ligament femur, is inserted. The acetabulum is coated with cartilage at its circumference, Acetabulum, except opposite the cotyloid notch, and touches the head of the ou?eS." nally. Fig. 213.* femur by this part: this articular surface is deep above, but gradu- ally decreases towards the edges of the notch. In the hollow of the cartilage, and close to the notch, is a mass of Fat in the fat (fig. 197,/) covering about one-third of the area of the cotyloid cavity, which constitutes the gland of Havers : it communicates with the fat of the thigh beneath the transverse ligament. Movements. In this ball and socket joint, there are the same Kinds of kinds of movement as in the shoulder, viz., flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, circumduction and rotation. Flexion and extension. In the swinging movement flexion is freer Swinging than extension, the thigh being capable of such elevation as to touch ^^^^^^^^^^^^ the belly. head of the acetabulum, rotating around a horizontal axis; and the rapidity femur and extent of the movements do not endanger the security of the joint, the head of the bone not having any tendency to escape. * Hip-joint opened, to show the interarticular Hgament. a. Part of the capsule. 6. Interarticular ligament: c, its pubic, and d, its ischial attach- ment.664 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. checks to movement. Lateral movement motion of the head.: state of the ligaments. Dislocation in lateral movements. Circum- fluction. Rotation inwards, and outwards. Examine attachment of muscles. Ill extension the strong ilio-femoral ligament (the inner band especially) is tightened, and stops the movement. Flexion is not naturally arrested by the ligaments of the joint, but by the meeting of the soft parts of the thigh and abdomen. In abduction and adduction the femur is removed from, or brought towards, the middle line of the body: of the two, abduction is the more extensive. In both states the head moves in the opposite direction to the shaft. Thus, as the femur is abducted, the head descends, and a great part of the articular surface projects below the acetabulum ; and when the limb is raised to its utmost, the upper edge of the neck meets the edge of the socket, so as to prevent farther motion. As the limb descends and approaches the other, the head rises in the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the pubo-femoral ligament and lower part of the capsule are tightened over the projecting head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the iHo-femoral ligament is rendered tense and arrests the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity serving as the fulcrum on which the femur can be lifted out of the hollow. In circumduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take place in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, the base of which is at its extremity, and apex at the centre of the head of the femur. This movement is less free than in the shoulder-joint. There are two kinds of rotation, internal and external; in the former, the great toe is turned in; and in the latter it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur glides backwards horizontally across the acetabulum, the great trochanter being put forwards; and the shaft of the bone revolves around a line internal to it, which passes from the centre of the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior half of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation out, the head of the bone turns forwards in the cotyloid cavity, and the great trochanter is brought backwards. The outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is tightened and checks the movement. Dissection. After the limb is removed, the attachments of all the muscles in the thigh are to be examined more minutely before the dissection of the leg is undertaken. The muscles should not be removed from the femur, but about two inches of each should be left for after study.665 SUPERFICIAL MARKII^GS OF LEG. Section IV. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Directions. Before tlie dissection of the leg is begun, the student Surface should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the promi- ^^'^^'^s- nences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with the markings which indicate the position of the larger vessels. Prominences of bone. The bones of the leg can be traced beneath in the leg the skin from the knee to the ankle-joint. At the inner and fore sllperfiSaf, part is the tibia, which is subcutaneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp edge. Above, it presents in front a prominent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted ; and on each side of this the tuberosities of the bone are superficial. The internal tuberosity is a uniform rounded promi- nence ; but the external forms a marked projection at the outer and fore part of the knee. Below, the tibia ends on the inner side of the ankle in the internal malleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difliculty in consequence of the prominence and the of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognized p^rt^ below the knee ; and the lower end forms the eminence (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle-joint. At the sides of the ankle are the prominent malleoli, the external Ankle-joint, being nearer to the heel; and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus can be felt below the tibia. Muscles and vessels of the leg. On the back of the leg is the swell ^^^^^^^^^^ of the calf: this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it leg, and descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those tendo muscles are connected with the heel. Between the tendon and the ^c^'^^*^- edge of the tibia, but nearer the former, is placed the superficial tibiai"^'^ part of the postej-ior tibial artery. In front, between the tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the ankle and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply ; the posi- Line of tion of the vessel will be indicated by a line from a point midway tibia"^"^ between the head of the fibula and the projection of the external vessels tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the ankle-joint. Prominences of the foot. At the inner border of the foot, about an inner inch and a half in front of the internal malleolus, is the tuberosity the*foot ^ of the navicular bone pointing out the spot at which an amputation (Chopart's) is practised ; while one inch and a half further forwards is a slight depression marking the articulation between the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of the foot is the tuberosity of the fifth Outer metatarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the Dorsal centre ot the ankle-jomt to the interval between the inner two toes, artery, will lie over the position of the main artery. Position. For the dissection of the back of the leg, the limb is to Position of be placed on its front, with the foot over the side of the dissecting-666 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Take away the skin. seek cutaneous nerves in the fat. External saphenous: origin ; ending; branches. Branches of table; and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. Dissection. For the rem6val of the skin, one cut may be made along the middle of the leg to the sole of the foot, where a trans- verse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting flaps of skin may be raised,—the outer one as far as the fibula, and the other as far as the inner margin of the tibia. In the fat the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be followed. On the inner side, close to the tibia, are the internal saphenous vein and nerve, together with twigs of the internal cutaneous nerve near the knee. In the centre of the leg lies the external saphenous vein, with the small sciatic nerve as its companion above, and the external saphenous nerve below the middle of the leg. On the outer side cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal nerve will be met with. The superficial fascia, or the fatty layer of the back of the leg, is least thick over the tibia. Along the line of the superficial vessels it may be separated into two layers. Superficial Veins. Two veins appear in the dissection of the back of the leg, which are named saphenous—inner and outer. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 215, d) begins in an arch on the dorsum of the foot (p. 688). Ascending along the leg in front of the inner ankle, and then behind the inner edge of the tibia, it reaches the thigh (p. 608). In the leg the vein is joined by superficial branches, and by deep roots from the tibial veins. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 214, c) begins at the outer end of the arch on the dorsum of the foot, and appears below the outer ankle. The vein then courses along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteal vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg, communicating with the internal saphenous. Cutaneous arteries accompany the superficial veins and nerves of the leg. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 214). The nerves in the fat of the back of the leg are prolongations of branches already met with, viz., the internal and external saphenous, external popliteal, small sciatic, and internal cutaneous of the thigh. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 214, ') accompanies the vein of the same name beyond the knee (p. 628), and terminates at the middle of the inner border of the foot. In the leg the nerve gives off lateral cutaneous offsets, the largest of which turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. The EXTERNAL or SHORT SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 214,^) is formed by the union of the tibial and peroneal communicating branches (p. 655), usually about the middle of the leg. It runs with the external saj)henous vein below the outer ankle, and ends by supply- ing the outer side of the foot and little toe. It furnishes twigs to the skin of the lower part of the back of the leg, and large branches over the heel. Cutaneous nerves of the external popliteal. ■, In Superficial fascia. Two super- ficial veins. Internal saphenous. External saphenous. Cutaneous arteries. Cutaneous nerves. Internal saphenous:CUTANEOUS NEEVES ON THE BACK. 667 addition to the peroneal communicating (fig. 214, the external external popliteal nerve gives off one or two cutaneous offsets (p. 655) to Popliteal, the outer side and fore part of the leg. Fig. 214.* Fig. 215. t * First view of the back of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Gastrocnemius, b. Soleus. c. Semimembranosus, d. Biceps. Vessels: a. Popliteal artery, h. Internal saphenous vein. c. External saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. External popliteal. 2. Internal popliteal. 3. Tibial communi- cating. 4. Peroneal communicating. 5. Short saphenous. 6. Small sciatic, 7. Internal saphenous. 8. Internal cutaneous. + Second view of the back of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Mus- cles: A. Grastrocnemius, cut. b. Soleus. c. Plantaris. d. Semimembrano- sus, E, Semitendinosus. p. Tendo Achillis, Vessels: a. Popliteal artery. h. Internal lower articular, c. External lower articular, d. Internal saphe- nous vein. €. External saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. External popliteal. 2. Internal popliteal. 3. Short saphenous, cut.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 668 Termination of small sciatic. Termination of internal cutaneous. Take away the fat. Deep fascia ■continuity *ind attach- ments. Take away the fascia. Muscles in superficial group. •Gastrocne- mius arises by two heads from the femur: •ends below in tendo Achillis; relations: The SMALL SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 214, ^) perforates the fascia at the lower end of the popliteal space, and reaches to about the middle of the leg with the external saphenous vein : it ramifies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nerve. Offset of the internal cutaneous (fig. 214, ^). The posterior branch of the internal cutaneous of the thigh (p. 610) extends to the middle of the leg, and communicates with the internal saphenous nerve. Dissection. The deep fascia will be seen by removing the fat. The superficial" vessels and nerves may be either cut or turned aside. The DEEP fascia on the posterior aspect of the leg covers the muscles, and sends a thick process between the deep and superficial groups. Above, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets from the tendons about the knee ; and below, it joins the annular ligaments. Internally, it is fixed to the edge of the tibia : externally, it is continued uninterruptedly from the one aspect of the limb to the other ; but from its deep surface an intermuscular septum is sent inwards between the muscles of the back and of the outer side of the leg to be attached to the outer border of the fibula. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Dissection. The fascia is to be divided along the centre of the leg as far as the heel, and is to be taken from the surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the inner cut head of the gastrocnemius, the fibres of the muscle will be more easily cleaned. Superficial Group of Muscles. In the calf of the leg there are three muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, which extend the ankle. The first two are large, giving rise to the prominence on the surface, and end below by a common tendon ; but the last is inconsiderable in size, and chiefly tendinous. The gastrocnemius (fig. 214, a), the most superficial muscle, has two distinct pieces or heads, which arise from the lower end of the femur. The iiiner head of origin is attached by a large tendon to an impression at the upper aspect of the inner condyle, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus ; and by short tendinous fibres to the line above the condyle. The outer head is similarly fixed by tendon to a pit on the outer surface of the corresponding condyle, above the attachment of the popliteus muscle, and to the posterior surface of the bone immediately above the condyle. The fleshy fibres of the two heads are united along the middle line by a narrow thin aponeurosis, and terminate below with the soleus in the common tendon of insertion. One surface is covered by the fascia. The other is in contact with the soleus and plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space, and are crossed by the tendons of the hamstrings. The inner head is larger, and descends lower than the outer. In the outer head a piece of fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone may exist.669 SUPERFICIAL EXTENSOES OF ANKLE. Action. When the foot is unsupported, the gastrocnemius extends use, with the the ankle ; and when the toes rest on the ground, it raises the os ^^^^ calcis and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, and in progression. Taking its fixed point at the os calcis, the muscle draws down acting from the femur so as to bend the knee-joint. below. Dissection. To see the soleus, the gastrocnemius is to be reflected Detach by cutting across the remaining head (fig. 215), and the vessels and fj^,^^."'^'^^* nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and plantaris must be cleaned. The SOLEUS (fig. 215, b) is a large flat muscle, which is attached Soieusis to both bones of the leg. It arises from the head, and the upper the^bones*^ third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; from the of the leg, oblique line across the tibia, and from the inner edge of this bone as low as the middle ; and between the bones from an aponeurotic and joins arch over the large blood-vessels. Its fibres are directed downwards V)eiow^*^°" to the common tendon. The superficial surface of the soleus is in contact with the gastro- parts over cnemius ; and where the two touch they are aponeurotic. Beneath and under the soleus lie the bones of the leg, the deep muscles, and the vessels ' and nerves. Action. In its action on the foot the soleus, like the gastro- use, cnemius, extends the ankle and points the toes when the foot is ^J.^^g^''^* free to move ; and raises the heel if the toes rest on the ground, aud fixed - By the sudden and powerful contraction of the fibres of both muscles the common tendon is sometimes broken across. If it acts from the os calcis, it will draw back the bones of the ^^^^^ ^^'^^^ leg into a vertical position over the foot, as the body is raised to the erect posture after stooping. Tendo Achillis (fig. 215, f). The common tendon of the gastro- Tendo . . Achillis ; cnemius and soleus is one of the strongest in the body. About three ^^^^^^ " inches wide above, it commences at the middle of the leg, though it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to the lower end: below, it is narrowed, and is inserted into the middle impression aud inser- on the posterior aspect of the tuberosity of the os calcis. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and the external saphenous vein and nerve are superficial to it at first, but afterwards lie along its outer border. The PLANTARIS (fig. 215, c) is remarkable in having the longest Plantaris l tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when it is stretched laterally. About three-quarters of an inch wide, the ^^'^si"; muscle arises from the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint ; and the tendon is inserted into the os calcis with, or by the side of, the tendo insertion; Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed position of ^ by the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of ^ ^^^^^ ^ * the tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little muscle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 670 use like gastrocne- Detacli soleus, and clean the deej) fascia. Deep part of the fascia of tlie leg. Clean the deep muscles: dissect peroneal artery. Four mus- cles in the deep group position and destination. Popliteus arises within knee-joint; inserted into tibia Action. It assists slightly tlie gastrocnemius in extending the ankle if the foot is not fixed; and in bending the knee-joint if the foot is immoveable. Dissection (fig. 216). The soleus is to be detached from the bones of the leg, and the vessels and nerves entering it are to be divided ; but in raising it, the student should take care not to injure the thin deep fascia and the vessels and nerves beneath. The superficial muscles may be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis ; and the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the OS calcis should be opened. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and deep groups is then to be cleaned ; and the integuments between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken away to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nerve to the sole of the foot, which pierces the ligament, is to be preserved. Deejo iKirt of the fascia. This intermuscular piece of the fascia of the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds down the flexor muscles of the deep group. In the upper part of the leg it is thin and indistinct; but lower in the limb it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, which give it the appearance and office of an annular ligament in that situa- tion. Inferiorly it joins the internal annular ligament between the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection. The deep layer of muscles, the posterior tibial nerve, and the trunk and offsets of the posterior tibial vessels will be laid bare by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly concealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the two lateral muscles (flexor digitoruni and flexor hallucis) ; and it will not fully appear until after the membrane covering it has been divided longitudinally, and reflected to the sides. To prepare the peroneal artery, evert and partly divide the flexor hallucis, by which it is concealed; then define branches from its lower part to the front of the leg, the outer side of the foot, and to join the posterior tibial artery. Deep Group of Muscles (fig. 216). The deep muscles at the back of the leg are four in number, viz., popliteus, flexor longus hallucis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee-joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of the great toe resting on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the tibialis covers the interosseous membrane. With the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot ; and they have a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a ten- dinous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS (fig. 216, a) arises by tendon, within the capsule of the knee-joint, from the front of an ol^long dej)ression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur ; and outside the capsule of the joint, some fleshy fibres arise from the posterior ligament. The muscular fibres spread out, and are inserted into the671 DEEP MUSCLES OF BACK. tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface, as well as into the aponeurosis covering them. The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle: on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower articu- lar vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee ; and the lower border corresponds with the attachment of the soleus on the tibia. The tendon of origin will he seen in the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Action. The leg being free, the muscle bends the knee-joint, and then rotates inwards the tibia. The pop- liteus is used especially in beginning the act of flexing the knee, as it pro- duces the rotation inwards of the tibia (or outwards of the femur) without which that movement cannot take place. The FLEXOR LONGUS HALLUCIS (flex. long, pollicis pedis; fig. 216, f) arises below the soleus from the lower two- thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; from the intermuscular septum between it and the peronei muscles ; and from the aponeurosis over the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astra- galus, and crosses the sole of the foot to its insertion into the great toe. Above, the muscle is covered by the soleus; but below it is super- ficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It lies on the fibula and lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels ; and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by fascia, are the peronei muscles. ■'^ Deep dissection of the back of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Popliteus. b. Outer, and c, inner part of soleus, cut. d. TibiaHs posticus, E. Flexor digitorum. p. Flexor hallucis. G. Peroneus longus. H. Peroneus brevis. i. Tendo Achillis. Arteries: a. Popliteal. h. Inferior internal, and c, inferior external articular, d. Anterior tibial. e. Posterior tibial, and /, a communicating branch to peroneal, g. Peroneal. h. Continuation of peroneal to outer side of the foot. Nerves : 1. Internal l^opliteal. 2. Muscular branch of posterior tibial. 3. Posterior tibial. 4. Cutaneous plantar. parts around it: use with tibia free; relations;DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 672 use, the foot being free, and fixed. Flexor lougus digitoruiu origin; enters annular Ugameut; part is superficial below soleus: use, with foot free. and fixed. Tibialis I>osticus: origin; insertion; muscles and vessels in relation with it; use, with foot free. and fixed; in standing. m nsmg up. Action. The foot being unsupported, the flexor bends the last phalanx of the great toe, and then extends the ankle. The foot resting on the ground, the muscle raises the heel; and it moves back the fibula as the body rises from stooping. The FLEXOR LONGUS DiGiTORUM (flex. perforans; fig. 216, e) arises from the inner division of the posterior surface of the tibia, extend- ing from the attachment of the soleus to about three inches from the lower extremity ; and from the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a compartment in the annular liga- ment, which is external to the sheath of the tibialis ; and it divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the last phalanges of the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed above, where it is placed be- neath the soleus ; but in the lower half it is in contact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. Action. The muscle bends the farthest phalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, and then extends the ankle. If the toes are in contact with the ground, the flexor helps to raise the heel in walking ; and to move back the tibia in the act of rising from stooping. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS (fig. 216, d) occupies the interval between the bones of the leg, but it crosses over the tibia below to reach the inner side of the foot. The muscle arises from the interosseous membrane, except about one inch below, from an impression along the outer part of the posterior surface of the tibia extending from the external tuberosity to the middle of the bone, from the inner surface of the shaft of the fibula, and slightly from the aponeurosis covering it. In the lower part of the leg the muscle is directed be- neath the flexor digitorum; and its tendon, entering the inner space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the foot to be inserted into the navicular and other bones (p. 687). The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned,, and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles ; but in the lower part of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper end presents two pointed processes of attach- ment—that to the tibia being the higher—between which the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. Action. Its action on the moveable foot is to depress the fore part and outer side, and carry the toes inwards, producing the move- ment in the tarsal joints known as inversion (p. 710), and to ex- tend the ankle-joint. The toes resting on the ground it will aid the muscles of the calf in raising the heel in the progression of the body. In standing, the muscle can raise the inner border of the foot with the tibialis anticus, so as to throw the weight of the body on the outer edge. As the body rises from stooping, the tibialis di-aws back the bones- of the lecj, with the soleus.673 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The aponeurosis covering the tihiahs is attached externally to the Aponeurosis over tlie imi.scle. inner border of the fibula ; but internally it joins the flexor longus ^'^^^^'^^ digitorum without being attached to bone : it may be regarded as con- stituting a fibular origin of that muscle. Fibres of the flexor longus hallucis arise from one surface of the membrane, and of the tibialis posticus from the other. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 216, e) is One of the vessels Posterior resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk (p. 652). It artery- extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower extent • edge of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, course; but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. For the upper two-thirds of the leg the vessel is concealed PfJ^f^^^^^'g by two muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus ; but and below; in the lower third, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its upper half the trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the pai"ts i^e- lower end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is ' the flexor hallucis. Under the annular ligament, the artery is j)laced between the J^gg|^'|^'^^ tendons of the common flexor of the digits and the special flexor of ankle; the great toe. Vena) comites closely surround the vessel. The posterior tibial veins; nerve is at first internal to the artery; but at the distance of about nerve; an inch it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a branches :— large peroneal trjink to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular branches enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus ; and an offset from the branch to the soleus j^ierces the attach- ment of that muscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. b. The medullary artery of the tibia arises near the beginning of Medullary the trunk : penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous, of the leg. (L One or two small internal malleolar branches ramify over the internal 1 malleolar, mner malleolus. e. A communicating branch arises opposite the lower end of the Communi- tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor longus hallucis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding off'set of the peroneal artery. Sometimes there is a second loop between these vessels superficial to the flexor hallucis (fig. 216,/). Peculiarities. If the posterior tibial artery is smaller than usual, or Size of absent, its deficiencies in the foot will be supplied by a large communicating "^^J' X X674 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Peroneal artery courses along fibula, beneath flexor hallucis ; termination: veins and nerve: branches :- ^Muscular. Medullary to fibula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Commuui- <>ating. Substitu- tions. Posterior tibial veins. Posterior tibial nerve extent: and rela- tions : bi'anch from the peroneal artery, which is directed inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole of the foot. The PERONEAL ARTERY (fig. 216, (/) is often as large as the jjos- terior tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to that bone in a fibrous canal between the origins of the flexor longus hallucis and tibialis posticus, reaches the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane. At this spot it sends forwards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal); and it is directed onwards over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the heel {h), where it terminates in branches, which anastomose with ofi'sets of the tarsal and external plantar arteries. Two companion veins surround the artery; and the nerve to the flexor hallucis lies on it generally. Branches. Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes muscular, medullary and communicating ofi'sets. a. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor hallucis ; and some turn round the fibula to the long and short j)eroneal muscles, lying in grooves in the bone. b. The medullary artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and is transmitted through the tibialis posticus to the aperture about the middle of the fibula. c. The anterior ]3eroneal branch passes forwards through an open- ing below the interosseous membrane, and is continued to the dorsum and outer part of the foot; on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. d. A communicating offset near the ankle joins in an arch with a similar branch of the posterior tibial. Peculiarities. The anterior branch of the peroneal may take the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries of the foot, as in those of the hand, by which the deficiency in one is supplied by an enlarged offset of another. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS begin at the inner side of the foot by the union of the plantar venae comites : they ascend, one on each side of the artery, and imite with the anterior tibial at the lower border of the popliteus to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresponding with the ofi'sets of the artery : branches connect them with the saphenous veins. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 216,^), a Continuation of the '■ internal popliteal (p. 655), reaches like the artery from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis and the inner malleolus. While beneath the annular ligament, or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot. Its relations to surrounding muscles are the same as those of the artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side above the origin of the peroneal ofi'set, but thence to theINTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. 675 termination, on tlie outer side. Its brandies are muscular and branches cutaneous. Muscular branches are furnislied to the two long flexors, the to muscles, tibialis posticus, and the soleus. There is an offset for each of the muscles ; and they may arise either separately along the trunk, or together from the ujDper end of the nerve. The branch to the tibialis is the largest; and that to the flexor hallucis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot (calcaneo-plantar ; fig. 216,^) ^i^id to skin begins above the ankle, and piercing the internal annular ligament and sole, as two or more pieces, ends in the integuments of the inner and under parts of the heel: this nerve will be followed to its termina- tion in the dissection of the foot (fig. 217). The INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT stretclies between the heel and internal the inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep layer jjgament: of muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a narrow part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the ^^^^^g" leg ; and the opposite gives attachment to the al)ductor hallucis muscle of the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons. The innermost encloses Sheaths: the tibialis posticus, lodged in a groove on the back of the malleolus, their Immediately outside this is another space for the flexor digitoruni. 1'°^'^'^^"- And about three-quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the flexor hallucis, resting in a groove in tlie astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Between the tendons of the two flexors of the digits are placed the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Section V. SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position. The foot is to be placed over a block of moderate thick- Jj|Jf p^j" ness with the sole towards the dissector ; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and by separating and fastening apart the toes. Dissection. The skin is to be raised in two flaps, inner and outer. Raise the by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the front; and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous and dissect nerve of the sole (fig. 217) ; and he may trace out, at a little dis- nerves. tance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The subcutaneous fat is very abundant, and forms a thick cushion Subcuta- ' neous fat. X X 2676 DISSECTION OP THE FOOT. Lay bare the plantar fascia, and the digital ves- sels and nerves: define the ligament of the toes. Plantar fascia: division into parts. Central part divides into five pieces: termina- tion of the pieces. Inner piece of the Outer piece. Expose the septa. Two inter- muscular septa. over the parts that press most on the ground in standing, viz., over the OS calcis, and the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Dissection. The fat should now be removed, and the plantar fascia laid bare. Beginning the dissection near the heel, follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the intervals between the processes the digital nerves and arteries will be detected amongst much fatty and fibrous tissues; but the vessels and nerves to the inner side of the great toe and outer side of the little toe pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to define a transverse fibrous band across the toes, over the digital vessels and nerves ; and when this has been displayed, he may remove the superficial fascia from the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantar fascia. The special fascia of the sole of the foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends septa between the muscles. Its thickness varies in diff'erent parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and the existence of longitudinal depressions over the two chief intermuscular septa, the fascia is divided into a central and two lateral pieces. The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corresponding with an intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each side ; and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five processes, which send fibres to the integuments near the web of the foot, and are continued onwards to the toes, one to each. Where the pieces separate from each other, the digital vessels and nerves, and the lumbricales muscles become superficial, and are arched over by transverse fibres. If one of the digital processes be divided longitudinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to join the sheath of the flexor tendons, and to be fixed laterally into the margins of the metatarsal bone, and into the transverse metatarsal ligament. The lateral pieces of the fascia are thinner than the central one. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has but little strength, and is continued to the dorsum ; but on the outer side it presents a strong band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision may be made along the middle of the foot through the central piece of the fascia, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal processes will appear on the sides of that muscle. The iiitermuscular septa pass deeply on the sides of the flexor brevis digitorum, and a piece of fascia reaches across the foot from one septum to the other, beneath that flexor, so as to isolate it. The inner septum separates the short flexor from the abductor hallucis ; and the outer, from the abductor minimi digiti.FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. 677 The siqjerjicial transverse ligament crosses tlie roots of the toes, Transverse and is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the the toe"!' foot. It is attached at the ends to the sheath of the flexor tendons of the great and little toes, and is connected with the sheaths of the others as it lies over them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels issue. The sheaths of the flexor tendons (fig. 218, g) are similar to those Sheaths of of the fingers, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strong opposite the centre of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubri- cated by a synovial membrane, and contains the tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection (fig. 217). In the sole of the foot the muscles are Dissect first numerous, and have been arranged in four layers. To prepare the J^mcles, first layer all the fascia must be taken away ; but this dissection must be made with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the central muscle towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and one or more of the sheaths in which they are contained should be opened. First Layer of Muscles. In this layer are three muscles, viz., Muscles in the first the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor hallucis, and abductor jayer. minimi digiti. The short flexor of the toes lies in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR HALLUCIS (abd. pollicis pedis; fig. 217, a), J^JjJ^^g^.'' most internal muscle of the superficial layer, takes oriqin from the '. . origin; inner side of the larger tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis, from the plantar fascia, from the lower border of the internal annular ligament, and from the internal intermuscular septum. In front, the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the insertion; metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the relations; plantar fascia ; and the other touches the tendons of the tibial muscles, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, with the accessorius miiscle. Action. This abductor acts chiefly as a flexor of the metatarso- use, as phalangeal joint of the great toe, but it will slightly abduct that abductor, toe from the others. The FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM (flexor perforatus ; fig. 217, j^^l^^J'^^'^.^j arises posteriorly by a pointed process from the fore part of the torum larger tubercle of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle divides into four slips, which become tendinous and are directed forwards over the tendons of the long flexor to enter the sheaths of the four smaller toes, where they are inserted into the middle phalanges. In the tentUms^or sheath of the toe the tendon of this muscle lies at first (in this four toes; position of the foot) on the long flexor; opposite the centre of the678 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. insertion ; relations; and use. Abductor of the little toe: origin and insertion ; i-elations; use as abductor and flexor. Dissect the next mus- cular layer, and plantar vessels and nerves. Two plantar arteries: inner and outer. Internal small; course and ending. Branches to muscles; and super- ficial digital; first, metatarsal phalanx it is slit for tlie passage of the other, and it is attached by two processes to the sides of the middle phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar fascia; and it conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Action. It bends the first and second phalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, like the flexor snblimis in the upper liml), and approximates the toes at same time. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI (fig. 217, c) lias a wide origin behind from the small outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the adjacent part of the inner tubercle, and from the plantar fascia and the external intermuscular septum. It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted into the onter side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the little toe. The muscle lies along the outer border of the foot, and conceals the flexor accessorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerves. Sometimes a part of the muscle is fixed into the projection of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Action. Though it can abduct the little toe from the others, as the name signifies, its chief use is to bend the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Dissection. To bring into view the second layer of muscles and the plantar vessels and nerves, the muscles already examined must be reflected (fig. 218). Cut through the flexor perforatus at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it. Dividing the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the onter side of the foot, seek its nerve and vessel close to the calcaneum. The abductor hallncis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Next, the internal plantar vessels and nerve are to be followed forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the external jflantar vessels and nerve, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lumbricales, should be freed from fat. The Plantar Arteries (fig. 218) are the terminal branches of the posterior tibial trunk, and supply digital off'sets to the toes. They are two in number, and are named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot : the external is the larger, and forms the plantar arch. The INTERNAL ARTERY («) is inconsiderable in size, and accom- jDanies the internal plantar nerve, under cover of the abductor hallucis, as far as the middle of the foot, where it ends in four super- ficial digital branches. (Illustrations of Dissections, jj. 437.) Branches. The artery furnishes muscular branches, like the nerve, to the abductor hallucis, flexor perforatus, and the flexor brevis hallucis. Its digital branches accompany the digital nerves of the internal plantar (fig. 217), and are thus disposed :— The first is distributed to the inner side of the foot and greatINTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. toe ; tlie second is directed to the first interdigital space ; tlie third second, to the second space ; and the fourth to the third space. At the third, fourth. Fig. 217.* Fig. 218.+ root of tlie toes the last three join the deeper digital arteries in those spaces. The EXTERNAL ARTERY (h) takes an arched course in the foot, External with the concavity of the arch turned inwards. The vessel is first a^curved directed outwards across the sole, and then obliquely inwards course; * First view of tlie sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A, ALbductor liallucis. b. Flexor brevis digitorum. c. Abductor minimi digiti. I). Transverse ligament of the toes. Arteries : a. External plantar, h. Internal plantar. Nerves : 1. Internal plantar, with its four branches, 2, 3, 4 and 5, for three toes and a half. 6. External plantar nerve, with two digital branches, 7 and 8, for one toe and a half. t Second view of the sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Accessorius. b. Tendon of flexor longus digitorum. c. Tendon of flexor longus hallucis. d, marks the four lumbricales muscles, but the letters are put on the tendons of the flexor perforans. e. Tendon of flexor perforatus. f. Tendon of flexor perforans. G. Sheath of flexor tendons. h. Tendon of peroneus longus. Ao^teries: a. Internal plantar, h. External plantar, c. Branch to abductor minimi digiti. d. Branch to outer side of little toe. Nerves: 1. Internal, and 2, external plantar. 3. Branch to abductor minimi digiti. 4. Branch to flexor brevis hallucis.680 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. partly superficial, partly deep. Superficial part: relations ; branches to heel, to muscles, and outer side of foot. Plantar nerves also two. Internal nerve to three toes and a half; muscular branches; digital nerves are divided, ex- cept first. and give muscular branches, cutaneous and articu- lar offsets. External plantar to towards the root of the great toe, so that it crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz., from the inner side of the cal- caneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Only the first ]Dart of the artery is now laid bare ; the remaining portion, supplying the digital branches, will be noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 685). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the vessel is concealed by the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum ; but for a short distance near its termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. It rests on the OS calcis and flexor accessorius ; and it is accompanied by vense comites and the external plantar nerve. Branches. From the beginning of the artery two or three internal calcaneal branches arise. They perforate the origin of the abductor hallucis, and ramify over the heel, anastomosing with the terminal branches of the peroneal artery. Ofi^sets are also furnished to the muscles between which it lies ; and others turn round the outer border of foot to anastomose with the tarsal and metatarsal arteries. The PLxYNTAR Nerves (fig. 218) are derived from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial trunk behind the inner ankle. They are two in number, and accompany the plantar arteries ; but the larger nerve lies Avith the smaller blood-vessel. The INTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (^) courses between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor hallucis, and giving but few muscular ofi"sets, divides into four digital branches (fig. 217, ^-s, 4, for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and half the fourth ; it resembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. Muscular offsets are given by the trunk to the short flexor of the toes (perforatus) and the abductor hallucis ; and a few superficial tiuigs perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch (^) to the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others are bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. Muscular branches are furnished by two of these nerves before they reach the toes ; thus, the first supjDlies the flexor brevis hallucis ; and the second gives a branch to the innermost lumbrical muscle. Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, being divided at the spot mentioned, supplies the contiguous sides of two toes, while the first belongs altogether to the inner side of the great toe ; all give oflsets to the integuments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (fig. 218, ") is Spent chiefly in the681 EXTERNAL PLANTAE NEEVE. deep muscles of tlie sole of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves one toe and to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next. It ^ ' corresponds in its distribution with the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides has super- at the outer margin of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial ^leep parts; and a deep portion ;—the former gives origin to two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be dissected afterwards (p. 686). While the external jdantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor branches to of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve (fig. 217) are two digital two. One (') is undivided : it is distributed to the outer side of ... ORG Sin2l6 the little toe, and gives offsets to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and oftentimes to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other {^) bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two toes, and one divided, supplies their collateral surfaces : this nerve communicates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal jdantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have the same dis- distribution tribution as those from the other plantar trunk, and end like them others, in a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit. Dissection (fig. 218). To complete the ^preparation of the second Lay bare layer of muscles, the abductor hallucis should be detached from the layer of OS calcis and turned inw^ards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, m^iscies. and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 218). In this layer are the Muscles of tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz., flexor jayer!^ longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, which cross one another. Connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle-; and at its division into pieces four fleshy slips (lumbricales) are added to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum (fig. 218, b), while Tendon of entering the foot beneath the angular ligament, lies on the internal of^o^y''^^'^ lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the accessory divides into muscle and a slip from the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, and ^^^^^5 divides into tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with and beneath a these pierce tendon from the flexor brevis (e). About the centre of the meta- tendons^ tarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor (f) is transmitted through the other, and ]Dasses onwards to be iriserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two short folds nearest phalanges of the toes are short synovial folds, one to each, as in the hand ; and the one fixing the flexor perforans is anterior (p. 305). Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and combines with use. the short flexor in bending the first and second joints. If it actedDISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 682 Four lum- Ijricales : attachment to long flexor, and exten- sor tendons. Flexor ac- cessorius is joined with flexor lonrrus; relation:- Insertion of tendon of flexor hallucis; rt'lationi; and other toes. Dissect third layer of muscles. by itself it would tend to bring the toes somewhat inwards, in con- sequence of its oblique position in the foot. The LUMBRiCALES (fig. 218, d) are four small muscles between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two tendons with the exception of the most internal, and this is con- nected with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Be- coming tendinous, they pass upwards on the tibial side of the four outer toes, and are inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the first phalanx ; but they often end partially in an attachment to the side of the phalanx. The muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Action. These small muscles assist in flexing the metatarso- phalangeal joints ; and through their union with the long extensor tendon they may aid that muscle in straightening the two inter- phalaiigeal joints. The ACCESSORius muscle (fig. 218, a) has two heads of origin:— One is mostly tendinous, and is attached to the outer surface of the OS calcis, and to the long plantar ligament ; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner concave surface of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, which join the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about the centre of the foot, and contribute slips to the pieces of that tendon going , to the second, third and fourth digits. The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it lie the external plantar vessels and nerve ; and the muscles of the first layer conceal it. Action. By means of its oftsets to the tendons of certain digits the muscle helps to bend those toes ; and from its position on the outer side of, and behind the long flexor to which it is united, it will oppose the inward pull of that muscle, and enable it to bend the toes directly backwards. The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis (fig. 218, c) is deeper in the sole of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum : taking a straight course to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. It is united to the long flexor tendon by a strong tendinous process, which, joined by bands of the accessorius, is continued into the pieces of that tendon belonging to the second and third toes. Beneath the internal annular ligament this tendon lies in a groove on the back of the astragalus : in the foot it first occupies a similar groove on the under surface of the sustentaculum tali, and then lies over the flexor brevis hallucis. Action. For the action of this mitscle on the great toe, see page 672. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the common flexor going to the second and third toes, it will bend those digits with the great toe. Dissection (fig. 219). For the dissection of the third layer of muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexors are to be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the683 THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. toes. While raising the tendons, the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with ; and small nerves and vessels to the outer three lunibricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from tlie muscles now brought into view. Third Layer of Muscles (fig. 219). Only the short muscles Muscles of of the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal ^^y^^'* bone of the great toe the flexor brevis hallucis lies, and external to this is the adductor obliquus hallucis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the adductor transversus hallucis. The fleshy mass between the adductor obliquus and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interosseous muscles of the next layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS HALLUCIS (fleX. brCV. poUicis pedis ; fig. 219, Flexor a) arises behind by two tendinous slips, one of which is fixed to the hallucis: inner side of the cuboid bone, while the other is prolonged from the origin; tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the front of the first meta- tarsal bone the fleshy belly divides into two heads, which are inserted insertion; into the sides of the base of the metatarsal phalanx. E,esting on the muscle at one part, and in the interval between relations; the heads at another, is the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor hallucis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first jdiahxnx it flexes the meta- use. tarso-phalangeal joint of the big toe. The ADDUCTOR OBLIQUUS HALLUCIS (add. pollicis pedis; fig. 219, Adductor b) , which is larger than the preceding muscle, arises from the sheath hallucis: of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the origin; third and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorh^ the muscle is united with the outer head of the short flexor, and is inserted with it into insertion; the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneatli the outer relations; border the external plantar vessels and nerves are directed inwards. Action. Its first action will be to adduct the great toe to the use. others, and it will help afterwards in bending the metatarso- phalangeal joint of the toe. The ADDUCTOR TRANSVERSUS HALLUCIS (traUSVersUS pedis ; fig. Adductor 219, d) arises by fleshy bundles from the capsules of the metatarso- hTilucfsT^** phalangeal articulations of the three outer toes (frequently not from origin; the little toe), and from the transverse metatarsal ligament. Its insertion into the great toe is united with that of the adductor insertion; obliquus. The cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons and the nerves of relations; the toes ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the interosseous nmscles and the digital vessels. Action. It will adduct the great toe to the others, and then use on the approximate the remaining toes. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI . (fig. 219, c) is a uarrOW FlexorDISSECTION OF THE FOOT. muscle resembling one of the interossei. Arising behind from the metatarsal bone and the sheath of the peroneus longus, it blends in front with tlie inferior ligament of the metatarso-phalangeal articula- Fig. 219.* Fig. 220.t tion, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the toe ; some of the fibres are often inserted into the fore part of the meta- tarsal bone. * Third view of the sole of the foot (Ilhistrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Flexor brevis hallucis. b. Adductor obliquus hallucis. c. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. D. Adductor transversus hallucis. Arteries: a. Internal plantar, cut. h. External plantar, and c, its four digital branches. Nerves: 1. Internal plantar, cut. 2. External plantar ; 3, its superficial part, cut; 4, the deep part, with the plantar arch. 6. Offsets to the outer lumbrical muscles. + Fourth view of the sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Mus- cles : 0. Three plantar interossei. i. Four dorsal interossei. Arteries: a. Internal plantar, cut. h. External plantar ; c, its four digital branches, d. Plantar arch. e. Dorsal of foot entering the sole. /. Artery of great toe. g. Branch to inner side of great toe. Ji. Branch for the supply of great toe. and the next. Nerves: 1. Internal plantar, cut. 2. External plantar; 3, its superfiicial, and 4, its deep part, the latter supplying offsets to the inter- osseous muscles.PLANTAR ARCH OF VESSELS. 685 Action. Firstly, it bends the metatarso-plialangeal joint, and next use. it draws down and adducts the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection (fig. 220). In order that the deep vessels and nerves Dissect the may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor obliquus hallucis are to and^nerves! be cut through behind, and thrown towards the toes ; but the nerve supplying the latter is to be preserved. Beneath the adductor lie the plantar arch and the external plantar nerve with their branches ; and through the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves, w^ith their branches, require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTAR ARCH (fig. 220, cl) is the portion of the external Arch of the plantar artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone artery^ of the little toe to the back of the first interosseous space : inter- extent; nally the arch is completed by a communicating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot (e; p. 686). It is placed across the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones, in contact with the interossei, but relations under the flexor tendons and the adductor obliquus hallucis. ^les, "^"^ Venae comites lie on the sides of the artery, and the deep part of veins and the external plantar nerve accompanies it. ' From the front or convexity of the arch the digital branches are i)ranches :— supplied, and from the opposite side small nutritive branches arise. Three small arteries, the posterior perforating, leave the deep Posterior aspect of the vessel : they pass to the dorsum of the foot through P®'^^*^^*^"^s- the three outer metatarsal spaces, and join the dorsal interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery (p. 695). The digital branches (c) are four in numl)er, and supply both Digital sides of the three outer toes and half the next. One to the outer tiiree^toes**^ side of the little toe is single ; the others lie over the interossei in and a half; the outer three metatarsal spaces, but beneath the adductor trans- versus hallucis (fig. 219), and bifurcate in front to sup^^ly the con- tiguous sides of two toes. They give fine ofl'sets to the interossei, to muscidar some lumbricales, and the adductor transversus; and at the point '^"^^ of division they send small communicating branches—anterior perforating perforating^ to join the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the offsets; foot (p. 695). Tho, first digital runs on the outer side of the little toe, supjplying first, the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the integuments of the outer border of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and second, furnishes a branch to the outer lumbrical muscle. The third is distributed to the contiguous sides of the fourth and ti^^rd, third toes, and emits a branch to the third lumbricalis. The fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- ^^^^^^^. osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits ; it may assist in supplying the third lumbricalis. The last two are joined by superficial digital branches of the junction internal plantar at the root of the toes. plantar; On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that distribution on the toes.68e DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. Ending of the dorsal artery of the foot: its digital branches, on the <ligits. External ])lantar nerve emls in the deep muscles: like ulnar nerve. Dissection. Transverse metatarsal ligament. Dissect the last layer of muscles. Eourth layer of muscles. Iiiterossei. of the digital in the hand. Thaj extend to the end, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the sides and ball of the toe ; and the artery on the second digit anastomoses at the end of the toe with a branch from the dorsal artery of the foot. Near the front of both the metatarsal and the next jihalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the flexor tendons, from which the phalangeal articu- lations are supplied. The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (fig. 220, e) enters the sole at the posterior part of the first (inner) metatarsal space, and ends by inosculating with the plantar arch. By a large digital artery it furnishes branches to both sides of the great toe and half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. The digital hrmicli (/) extends to the front of the flrst inter- osseous space, and divides into collateral branches {h) for the con- tiguous sides of the great toe and the next. Near the head of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch {g) for tlie inner side of the great toe. The arteries have the same arrangement along the toes as the other digital branches ; and that to the second digit anastomoses at the end with a branch of the plantar arch. The DEEP PART OF THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (fig. 220, accompanies the arch of tlie artery, and ends internally in the ad- ductor obliquus hallucis. It furnishes branches to all the interossei, to the transversus adductor, and to the outer three lumbrical muscles (Brooks). This nerve cori'esponds with the deep portion of the ulnar nerve in the hand. Dissection. It will be needful to remove the transverse adductor muscle, to see a ligament across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The TRANSVERSE METATARSAL LIGAMENT is a Strong fibrous band, like that in the hand (p. 310), which connects together all the meta- tarsal bones at their anterior extremity. A thin fascia covering the interosseous muscles is attached to its hinder edge. It is con- cealed by the adductor transversus hallucis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection. To complete the dissection of the last layer of muscles, the flexor brevis minimi digiti may be detached and thrown for- wards. Dividing then the metatarsal ligament between the bones, the knife is to be carried directly backwards for a short distance in the centre of each interosseous space, except the first, in order that the two interosseous muscles may be separated from each other. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. The fascia covering the muscles should be taken away if any remains, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them should be dissected out. Fourth Layer of Muscles (fig. 220). In the fourth and last layer of the foot are contained the interosseous muscles, and the tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus. The interosseous muscles (fig. 220) are situate in the intervals between the metatarsal bones : they consist of two sets, j)lantar andFOUKTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. 687 dorsal, like the interossei in the hand. Seven in nnmber, there are three plantar and fonr dorsal ; and two are found in each space, except the innermost. The 'plantar muscles (o) are slender fleshy slips, belonging to Three pbm- the outer three toes. Each arises from the under and inner surface outer toes, of the metatarsal bone ; and is inserted partly into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the same toe, and partly by an expansion to the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot. The dorsal muscles (i), one in each space, arise by two heads from Four dorsal the lateral surfaces of the bones between which they lie, and are bones.°" inserted like the others into the side, and on the dorsum of the meta- tarsal phalanx of certain toes :—Thus, the inner two muscles belong to the second toe, one to each side ; the next belongs to the outer side of the third toe ; and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. The interossei are crossed by the external plantar vessels and Relatious. nerve, and their digital branches ; and they lie beneath the adductor transversus hallucis and the metatarsal ligament. The posterior perforating arteries pierce the hinder extremities of the dorsal set. Action. Like the interossei of the hand (p. 310) they will contri- Use as bute to the bending of the metatarso-phalangeal joints, and straighten ^^^^"^^^ the two interphalangeal joints. tensors; They can act also as abductors and adductors of the toes. Thus, as adduc- the plantar set will bring the three outer toes towards the second toe ; and the dorsal muscles will abduct from the middle line of the ^uctors. second toe,—the two attached to that digit moving it to the right and left of the said line. Dissection. Following the tendon of the tibialis j)osticus muscle Trace out from its position behind the inner malleolus to its insertion into the Jendom!' navicular bone, trace the numerous processes that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is continued forwards over insertion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint and the internal {f^jaUs pos- calcaneo-navicular ligament, to be iriserted into the tuberosity of the *icus navicular bone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot:—One is directed backwards to the "^to tarsus sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. Two offsets are directed for- wards ;—one to the internal cuneiform bone; the other, much the largest, is attached to the middle and outer cuneiform, to the cuboid bone, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal "leta- bones. In other words, pieces are fixed into all the tarsal bones ex- cept one (astragalus), and into all the metatarsal bones except two (first and fifth). Where the tendon is placed over the calcaneo-navicular ligament, it contains a fibro-cartilage, or occasionally a sesamoid bone. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle winds round the insertion of688 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. tendon of ciiboid bone, and is continued inwards in tlie groove on the under kfngus^^ surface, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone, relations. In the sole of the foot (fig. 220), it is contained in a sheath which is completed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth meta- tarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only by areolar tissue. A synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened^ and contains a fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. THE FRONT OF THE LEU. Position of the limb. Raise the skin. Seek the cutaneous nerves in the leg; on the foot both vessels and nerves; clean the fascia. Cutaneous veins: internal saphenous; external saphenous. Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be put on the stretch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the skin from the les: o and foot, one incision should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be looked for. At the upper and inner part of the leg are some filaments from the great saphenous nerve ; and at the outer side others, still smaller, from the external popKteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, the musculo-cutaneous nerve may be found, the branches of which should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally in the saphenous veins. On the outer side lies the external saphenous nerve ; and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenous nerve ceases. In the interval between the great toe and the next the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve appears. The digital nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments ; and after the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. The VENOUS ARCH on the dorsum of the foot has its convexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. Internally and externally it passes into the saphenous veins. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in the arch. It ascends in front of the inner ankle to the inside of the leg (p. 666). Branches enter it from the inner border and sole of the foot. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins on the outside of the689 CUTANEOUS NEEVES OX THE FRONT. little toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch ; and it is continued helow the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 666). Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 221). The superficial nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived mainly from the musculo- cutaneous and anterior tibial branches of the external popliteal trunk, and from the external saphenous nerve of the two popliteal. Some inconsiderable oftaets ramify on the front of the leg from the internal saphenous and external popliteal. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE (^) Cuds OU the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg with a cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal <ligital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contigu- ous sides of the great toe and the next. The branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx :— The irmer branch (^) sends one off"set to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and another to the adjacent sides of the second and third toes : it communicates with the internal saphe- nous and the anterior tibial nerves. Tiie outer branch (^) also divides into two nerves ; these lie over the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the contiguous sides of the three toes corresponding with those spaces : it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer border of the foot. The ANTERIOR- TIBIAL NERVE (^) bccOmeS (Cutaneous in the first interosseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 214,^) comes back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe ; all the outer margin of the foot receives nerves from it, and the oftsets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it supplies l)oth sides of the little toe and part of the next. Internal saphenous nerve (fig. 221,'^). This nerve is con- tinued along the vein of the same name to the middle of the instep, where it ceases mostly in the integuments, but some branches pass through the deep fascia to end in the tarsus. Source of the cutane- ous nerves. from the p]xternal saplienous Internal saphenous. Cutaneous nerves of the front of the leg and foot. 1. Anterior tibia]. 2. Musculo-cufcaneous, with 3, its inner, and 4, its outer piece, 5. Internal saphenous. 6. Offsets of external popliteal. Y Y690 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Deep fascia of the leg; intermus- cular septa; transvei-se ftbres at the ankle. Take away the fascia, leave liga- mentous Ijands, clean nerves and vessels. Anterior annular ligament its upper ,ind lower piece; sheaths differ in oach. External annular ligament. The DEEP FASCIA of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee-joint, where it gives origin to muscles. On the inner side it is fixed to the anterior border of the tibia ; but externally it is con- tinued round to the back of the leg. A strong intermuscular septum is sent in from the deep surface to the anterior border of the fibula, separating the anterior and external nniscles ; and another weaker process passes backwards in the upper third of the leg between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitoruin. Above, the fascia is connected to the heads of the leg-bones ; but below, it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below the ankle-joint it is strengthened by some transverse fibres, and gives rise to the two parts of the anterior annular ligament; and below the end of the fibula it forms another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. The fascia is to be removed from the front of the leg and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened bands of the annular ligament above and below the end of the tibia are to be left. In separating the fascia from the subjacent muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outer side of the fibula, but without destroying the band (external annular ligament) below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot, the dorsal vessels with their nerve are to be displayed, and the tendons of the short and long extensors of the toes are to be traced to the ends of the digits. In the leg, the anterior tibial nerve and vessels are to be followed from the dorsum into their intermuscular space, and are then to be cleaned as high as the knee. The ANTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT consists of two pieccs, up^^er and lower, which confine the muscles in their position,—the former serving to bind the fleshy bellies to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot. The upper part, above the level of the ankle-joint, is attached laterally to the bones of the leg ; it possesses one sheath with synovial membrane for the tibialis anticus. The loiver part is situate in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- serted externally by a narrow piece into the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the interosseous ligament; and internally, where it is thin and widened, into the plantar fascia and the inner malle- olus. In this piece of the ligament there are three sheaths ;—an inner one for the tibialis anticus ; an outer for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tercius ; and an intermediate one for the extensor hallucis. Separate synovial membranes line the sheaths. The EXTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT is placed below the fibula, and is attached on the one side to the outer malleolus, and on the other to the os calcis. Its lower edge is connected by fibrous tissue to the sheaths of the peronei muscles on the outer side of the os calcis. It contains the two lateral peronei muscles in one compart- ment ; and this is lined by a synovial membrane, which sends two offsets below into the separate sheaths of the tendons.MUSCLES ON THE FRONT. 691 aud foot. Tibialis anticus : The Muscles on the Front of the Leg (fig. 222) are four in Muscles on number. Tlie large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus ; f^^^^^ that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum ; while a small muscle, apparently the lower end of the last with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone, is the peroneus tertius. The muscle between the tibialis and extensor digitorum, in the lower part of the leg, is the extensor proprius hallucis. On the dorsum of the foot only one other muscle appears, the extensor brevis digitorum. The TIBIALIS ANTICUS (fig. 222,^) reaches the tarsus : it is thick and fleshy in the upper, but tendinous in the lower part of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity, and the upper half of the external °"Sin ; surface of the tibia; from the contiguous part of the interosseous membrane ; and from the fascia of the leg, and the intermuscular ^^eptum between it and the extensor longus digitorum. Its tendon begins below the middle of the leg, and passes beneath both pieces of the annular ligament, where it is surrounded by a synovial sheath, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the metatarsal "^sertion; bone of the great toe. The muscle is subaponeurotic. It lies at first outside the tibia, rest- contact- ing on the interosseous membrane; but it is then placed successively over the end of the tibia, the ankle-joint, and the inner tarsal bones. On its outer side are the extensor muscles of the toes, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Action. Supposing the foot not fixed, the tibialis bends the ankle, fg^^^^^f^.^g ^ and raises the inner border of the foot. If the foot is fixed, it can lift the inner border with the tibialis and ftxed posticus, and support the foot on the outer edge. If the tibia is slanting backwards, as when the advanced limb reaches the ground in walking, it can Imng forwards and make r^teady that bone. The EXTENSOR PROPRIUS HALLUCIS (ext. prop. pollicis pedis; j^^^^^®",^'^^' fig. 222) is deeply placed at its origin l)etween the former muscle haifucis: -and the extensor longus digitorum, l)ut its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot. The muscle arises from the middle two- ^^^^ /^"^"^ fourths of the narrow anterior surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous membrane for the same distance. At the ankle it ends in a tendon, which comes to the surface through a sheath in the insertion to lower piece of the annular ligament, and continues over the tarsus ^^^^^ ' to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels lie on the inner side of the muscle at it crosses its origin, but afterwards on the outer side of its tendon, so that ^'^ssels; they are crossed by it in the lower third of the leg. Action. It straightens the great toe by extending the phalangeal °" joints, and afterwards bends the ankle. When the foot is fixed on tlie ground and the tibia slants back- on tibia, wards, the muscle can draw forwards that bone. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM (fig. 222,") is flesliy in the leg, ^^^^J"^^^' and tendinous on the foot, like the other muscles. Its origin is from digftomm the head, and upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula; Y Y 2692 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. arises from tibia and fibula ; inserted into four outer toes; arrangement of tlie ten- dons on tlic toes; relations of the muscle: use on toes and ankle ; on tibia. Peroneus tertius : use witli tibialis, with peronei. Anterior tibial artery: course and extent : direction relations to parts around ; from the external tuberosity of tlie tibia, and about an inch (above) of the interosseous membrane : and from the fascia of the leg, and the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and divides into four pieces. Below the ligament these slips are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges. On the metatarsal phalanx the tendons of the long and short extensor join with prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales to form an aponeurosis ; but there is no tendon from the short ex- tensor to the expansion on the little toe. At the distal end of this phalanx the aponeurosis is divided into three parts—a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, while the lateral unite at the front of the middle, and are fixed into the ungual phalanx. In the leg the muscle is x^laced between the peronei on the one side, and the tibialis anticus and. extensor proprius hallucis on the other. It lies on the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle-joint. In the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum ; and the vessels and nerve are internal to them. Action. The muscle extends the four outer toes, acting mainly on the metatarso-phalangeal joints ; it can also bend the ankle-joint. If the tibia is inclined back, as when the foot reaches the ground in walking, it will be moved forwards by this and the other muscles on the front of the leg. The PERONEUS TERTIUS Ls situate below the extensor longus digi- torum, with which it is united. It arises from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula, from the lower end of the interosseous membrane, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis muscle ; and it {^inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe on the upper surface. This muscle has the same relations in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the annular ligament. Action. The muscle assists the tibialis anticus in bending the ankle ; but it difiers from that muscle in raising the outer border of the foot, and thus helps the other peronei in producing the move- ment of eversion. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 222, ^) extends from the bifur- cation of the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle-joint. At this spot it becomes the dorsal artery of the foot. The course of the artery is forwards through the aperture in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, along the front of that membrane, and over the tibia to the foot. A line drawn along tlie front of the leg from a point midway between the projection of the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle will mark the position of the vessel. For a short distance (about two inches) the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum ; afterwards it is placed between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius hallucis as far as the lower third, where the last muscle becomes693 ANTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. superficial and crosses to the inner side. The vessel rests on the interosseous membrane in two-thirds of its extent, being overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at some depth from the surface ; but it is placed in front of the tibia and Fig. 222.* the ankle-joint in the lower third, and is comparatively superficial between the tendons of the muscles. Ven^e comites entwine around the artery, covering it very closely position of with cross branches in the upper part. Tlie anterior tibial nerve * Dissection of the front of the leg (Quain's Arteries). 1. Tibialis anticus muscle. 2. Extensor hallucis and extensor longus digitorum drawn aside. 3. Part of the anterior annular ligament. 4. Anterior tibial artery : the nerve outside it is the anterior tibial.694 IHSSECTIOX OF THE LEG and nerve ; branches :— Muscular. Cutaneous. Recurrent. Malleolar; internal, and external. Dorsal artery : extent and course: relations position of veins and nerve. Varieties in dorsal artery. approaches the tibial vessels in the upj^er third of the leg, and con- tinues with them, lying along their anterior aspect: at the lower end of the artery the nerve is on the outer side. Branches. In its course along the front of the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes numerous muscular and cutaneous branches : and near the knee and ankle the following named branches take origin:— a. The anterior tibial recurrent artery is given off as soon as- the vessel appears through the interosseous membrane, and ascend- ing through the tibialis anticus, ramifies over the outer tuberosity of the tibia, where it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. b. Malleolar branches (internal and external) arise near the ankle- joint, and are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the smaller, and less constant in origin ; it anastomoses^ with twigs of the posterior tibial artery. The external communi- cates with the anterior peroneal artery (p. 674). The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT is the Continuation of the an- terior tibial, and extends from the front of the ankle-joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space : at this interval it passes downwards between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to end in the sole (p. 686j. The artery rests on the inner i)art of the tarsus, viz., the astraga- lus, the navicular, and middle cuneiform bones ; and it is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, and by the inner piece of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor hallucis lies on the inner side, and that of the extensor longus digitorum on the outer, but neither is close to the vessel. The veins have the same position with respect to the artery as in the leg; and the nerve is external to it. Peculiarities. On the dorsum of the foot the artery is often removed farther outwards than the line from the centre of the ankle to the back of the first interosseous space. The dorsal artery may also be reinforced or rex^laced by a large anterior peroneal branch. Branches Tarsal, Metatarsal, which gives interos- Branches. Small oft'sets are given to the integuments, and the bones and ligaments of the inner side of the foot; from the outer side of the vessel proceed two larger branches named tarsal and metatarsal; and an interosseous branch is furnished to the first metatarsal space. a. The tarsal branch arises opposite the head of the astragalus, and runs beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer border of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the meta- tarsal, external plantar, and anterior peroneal arteries : it supplies oflPsets to the extensor muscle beneath which it lies. b. The metatarsal branch takes an arched course to the outer side of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the short extensor muscle, and anastomoses with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. From the arch of the metatarsal branch three dorsal interosseous arteries are furnished to the three outer metatarsal spaces ; and theEXTENSOR BEEVIS DIGITORUM. 695 external of these sends a branch, to the outer side of the little toe. They supply the interosseous muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two small dorsal digital branches. At the fore part of the metatarsal space each interosseous branch and per- joins a digital artery in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior perforating twig; and from the beginning of each a small branch, posterior perforating, descends to the plantar arch. c. The -first dorsal interosseous artery arises from the main trunk first inter- OSSGOllS. as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed like the other dorsal interosseous offsets. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS have the same extent and relations ^{Jjj^'lj'jjj^. as the vessel they accompany. The}^ take their usual position along the artery, one on each side, and form loops around it by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive correspond with those of the artery ; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Dissection. To examine the extensor bre\ds digitorum on the Divide dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the extensor longus jo^tus"^ and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The hinder attachment of the muscle to the os calcis is to be defined. The EXTENSOR BREVis DIGITORUM ariscs from the anterior Extensui extremity of the os calcis at its upper and outer part, and from the tUgitoram lower band of the anterior annular ligament. Over the metatarsal bones the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four inner toes. The tendon of the great toe has a distinct attachment to the base of the meta- inner toes; tarsal phalanx ; but the rest are united to the outer side of the long extensor tendons, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal phalanx (p. 692). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the relations; tendons of the long extensor. Its inner ])elly crosses the dorsal artery of the foot. Action. Assisting the long extensor, it straightens the four inner use. toes, separating them slightly from each other. Dissection. The branches of artery and nerve which are beneath Cut through the extensor brevis will be laid bare by cutting across that muscle ^pevis *^ near its front, and turning it upwards. By dividing the lower band of the annular ligament over the and annular tendon of the extensor hallucis, and throwing outwards the external iig'^^^t.: half of it, the different sheaths of the ligament, the attachment to the OS calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum from it may be observed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are now to be follow ui> followed upwards to their origin from the external popliteal ; and nerves, a small branch to the knee-joint from the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Nerves of the Front of the Leg. Between the fibula and ^5^^^'^^^,-^*^^^^ the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into the leg.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 696 Recurrent. Musculo- cutaneous supplies peronei. Anterior tibial is with the artery: branches to muscles. External muscles of the leg. Peroneus longus: origin from the fibula: insertion into bones of the foot: relations in the leg; use on foot, free, the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial : and from the bec?innin<f of the anterior tibial nerve, or the end of the popliteal trunk, a small branch called the recurrent articular is given off. The RECURRENT ARTICULAR BRANCH takes the course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle, in which most of its fibres end. A small twig may be followed to the knee- joint. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE is continued between the extensor longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 689). Before the nerve becomes cutaneous it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 222) is directed beneath the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the tibial artery in the lower part of the upper third of the leg. From this spot it takes the course of the vessel along the leg and foot to the first interosseous space (p. 689). In the leg it lies for the most part in front of the anterior tibial vessels, but on the foot it is generally external to the dorsal artery. Branches. In the leg the nerve supplies the anterior tibial muscle, the extensors of the toes, and the peroneus tertius. On the dorsum of the foot it furnishes a considerable branch to the short extensor : this becomes enlarged, and gives off'sets to the articulations of the foot. Muscles on the Outer Side of the Leg (fig. 216). Two muscles occupy this situation, and are named peroneal from their attachment to the fibula : they are distinguished as long and short. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others. The PERONEUS longus (fig. 216, g), the more superficial of the two muscles, passes into the sole of the foot round the outer border. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia by a small ^\\]), from the head, and the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for two- thirds of the length, gradually tapering downwards, and from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Inferiorly, it ends in a tendon which is continued through the external annular ligament with the peroneus brevis, lying in the groove at the back of the external malleolus ; and it passes finally in a separate sheath below the peroneus brevis along the side of the os calcis, and through the groove in the outer border of the cuboid bone, to the sole of the foot. Its position in the foot, and its insertion are described before (p. 687). In the leg the muscle is immediately beneath the fascia, and lies on the peroneus brevis. Beneath the annular ligament it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle with the peroneus brevis, and is surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus are fixed to the fibula in front of, and behind it respec- tively. Action. With the foot free, the muscle extends the ankle ; thenPERONEI MUSCLES. 697 it can depress the inner, and raise the outer border of the foot in the movement of eversion. When the foot rests on the ground, it assists to lift the os calcis ^^^^' and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, or in walk- ing. And in rising from a stooping posture it draws back the fibula. The PERONEUS BREVis (fig. 216, h) reaches the outer side of the ^^g^i^^j^^ foot, and is smaller and deeper than the joreceding muscle. It attached to arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the lower two-thirds, extending upwards by a pointed piece in front of the peroneus longus, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. Its tendon passes with that of the peroneus longus beneath the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon and fifth enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus ^one;'^^^'^ to its insertion into the tuberosity at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. In the leg the muscle projects in front of the peroneus longus. ^'eiations; On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Action. If the foot is unsupported, this peroneus extends the use on foot, ankle, and moves the foot upwards and outwards in eversion. ^ Like the long muscle, it is al)le if the foot is unsupported to raise ^^"^ ^'^^^ the heel, and to bring back the fibula as the body rises from stoop- on the leg. ing. Section YII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions. In examining the remaining articulations of the limb, Hxamine the student may take first the knee-joint, unless this has become knee-joint, dry; in that case the ligaments of the leg, ankle-joint, and foot may be dissected while the knee is being moistened. Dissection. For the preparation of each ligament of the knee- ^^gee'^^nee joint, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons from around it, and to remove the areolar tissue or fibrous structure which may obscure or conceal the ligamentous band. A kind of aponeurotic capsule, capsule is to be defined on the front of the joint; and some tendons, and namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus, and semi- membranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, a part of each being left. Articulation of the Knee. The knee is the largest joint in Bones in the the body, and is formed by the contiguous ends of the tibia and ^^^^^-j^i^*- femur, with the patella. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in apposition by strong and numerous ligaments.698 dissections' of the leg. Capsule: The capsiile (fig. 223) is an aponeurotic covering on the front of the joint, which closes the wide intervals between the anterior and how formed, the lateral ligaments ; and it is derived from the fascia lata united with fibrous offsets of the extensor and flexor muscles. It covers the anterior and the external lateral ligaments, being inserted below into arrange- the heads of the tibia and fibula ; and it blends on the inner side nient. with, the internal lateral ligament. It is separated from the synovial membrane by the anterior ligament and by fat. The external Dissection. Four external ligaments, anterior and j)osterior, internal ligaments. external lateral, are situate at opposite parts of the articula- To define tion. The posterior and the internal lateral ligaments will appear on the liga- ^ to li ments Fig. 223.* Fig. 224. t how to proceed. External lateral liga- ment is small: occasional band. the removal of the areolar tissue from their surfaces ; but the anterioi- and the external lateral are covered by the aponeurosis on the front of the joint, and will not be laid bare till this has been cut through. If there is a second external lateral band present, it is not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 223,^) is round and cord-like. It is attached to the tuberosity of the outer condyle of the femur, below the tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces of the tendon of the biceps to a depression on the upper and outer part of the head of the fibula. Beneath the liga- ment are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but * External aspect of the knee-joint (Bourgery). 1. Anterior ligament. 2, External lateral ligament. 3. Interosseous membrane. 4. Lower extremity of the ilio-tibial band of tke fascia lata, forming part of the capsule. f Internal aspect of the knee-joint (Bourgery). 1. Tendon of the extensor muscle, ending below in the ligament of the patella, 2. 3. Internal lateral ligament. 4. Inner part of the capsule.EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. 699 it is not attached to tlie femur; it is connected above with, tlie gastrocnemius, and below with the styloid process of the head of the fibula. The tendon of the hiceps is inserted by two pieces into the head of Tendon of the fibula ; and from both of these fibres are prolonged to the head diviSecL^^ of the tibia. The external lateral ligament passes between the pieces into which the tendon is split. The tendon of the jjopliteiis may be followed by dividing the Tendon of posterior ligament. It arises from the fore part of the oblong depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the ■ external semilunar fibro-cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal articulation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle ; but it slips out of that groove when the limb is extended. The tendon of the adductor magnns inserted into the adductor and of tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur, above the attachment fnalnilr of the internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 224, ^) is attached above to the internal condyle of the femur, where it blends with the capsule ; but becoming 1^^*^™! thicker below, and separate from the rest of the capsule, it is fixed ^^^^^-^^^ for about an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, below the level ments; of the ligamentum patella) : some of the deeper fibres join the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles is joined by lie over the ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, 1,1.™"^^"" and the internal lower articular vessels and nerve are l)eneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres from the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is inserted beneath the insertion internal lateral ligament into the lower part of the groove at the j^fem^AuIl! back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia : between it and the upper sus. edge of the groove is a synovial bursa. The tendon sends a feAv fibres to the internal lateral ligament, a prolongation to join the fascia on the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The posterior ligament is wide and membranous, and is formed ^^^j^^gj^^^^' in great part by a strong slip from the tendon of the semimem- ° branosus, which is directed across the joint to the outer side. It is fixed below to the head of the tibia behind the articular surface ; and above, it is attached in the centre to the femur at the upper border of the intercondylar notch, but on each side' it joins the tendinous head of the gastrocnemius. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels and nerves to the interior of the articu- lation ; and the tendon of the popliteus pierces its outer part. The anterior ligament or ligamentum patellcB (fig. 224, ^) is the Anterior infrapatellar part of the tendon of insertion of the extensor muscle ^^s^"^^^'*^ of the knee (p. 626). About two inches long, it is attached above is infra- to the apex and lower border of the patella ; and below to the tendon, tubercle of the tibia. An expansion of the triceps extensor covers700 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. it; and a bursa intervenes between it and the front of the tibia above the tubercle. Dissection (fig. 225). To see the reflections of the synovial mem- brane, raise the knee on blocks, and open the joint by an incision on each side above the patella. When the anterior portion of the capsule with the patella is thrown down, a fold (mucous ligament) will be seen extending from the intercondylar fossa of the femur to a mass of fat below the x^atella. On each side of the knee-pan is another fold (alar ligament) over some fat. The limb may be laid flat on the table, and some of the posterior ligament removed, to show the pouches of the synovial membrane Fig. 225.* Open the knee-joint in front and behind. which project behind over the condyles of the femur ; but the limb is to be replaced in the former position before the parts are learnt. Synovial The synovial membrane (fig. 225) lines the interior of the joint, and is continued to the margins of the articular surfaces of the bones. It invests the interarticular fibro-cartilages after the manner of serous membranes, and sends a pouch between the tendon of the popliteus and the external fibro-cartilage and the head of the tibia; it is also reflected over the strong crucial ligaments at the back of the joint. thrown into There are three named folds of the synovial membrane. One in iSamentr— centre of the joint is the mucous ligament (a), which contains mucous, small vessels and some fat, and extends from the interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. Below and on each side and alar, of the patella is another fold—alar ligament (6 and c), which is * The capsule of the knee-joint cut across, and the patella thrown down, to show the named folds of the synovial sac. a. Mucous ligament. 5. Interna), and e, external alar ligament.SYNOVIAL SAC AND FAT AROUND KNEE. 701 continuous with tlie former below the patella, and is placed over a mass of fat : the inner (b) is prolonged farther than the outer by a semilunar piece of the synovial membrane. At the back and front of the articulation pouches are prolonged Pouches: beneath the tendons of muscles. Behind there are two, one on each side, between the condyle of the femur and the tendinous head of two behind the gastrocnemius. On the front, the sac projects under the extensor muscle one inch above the articular surface ; and if it communicates and one with the bursa in that situation, as is usually the case, it will reach ^'efoie. two inches above the joint-surface of the femur. When the joint is bent there is a greater length of the serous sac above the patella. Fat around the joint. Two large masses are placed above and below Articular the patella, and a smaller quantity of fat surrounds the crucial liga- ' ments. The infrapatellar mass, the largest of all, fills the interval between ^eiow the patella with its ligament and the head of the tibia, and gives P^^^^^^' origin to the ridges of the synovial membrane. From it a piece is continued round the patella ; but it is larger at the inner margin than at the outer, and overhangs the inner perpendicular facet of that bone. This infrapatellar pad adapts itself to the varying shape and extent of the angular interspace between the bones and the liga- use; mentum patellae in the movements of the joint. The suprapatellar pad is interposed between the common extensor above the tendon and the femur round the top of the synovial sac, and is larger l^^*®^^^- on the outer than the inner side. Dissection (fig. 226). The ligamentous structures within the cap- Dissect sule will be brought into view, while the limb is still in the same UgamcSts. position, by throwing down the patella and its ligament, and clear- ing away the fat behind it. In this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band which connects anteriorly the interarticular fibro-cartilages. The remains of the capsule and other ligaments, and the synovial membrane, are hext to be cleared away from the front and back of the crucial ligaments, and from the fibro-cartilages. While cleaning the posterior crucial ligament, the limb is to be placed flat on the table with the patella down; and the student is to be careful of a band in front of it from the external fibro-cartilage, or of two bands, one before and the other behind it. Ligaments ivithin the capsule. The ligamentous structures within Ligaments the capsule consist of the central crucial ligaments, and of two plates clpsuiV^^ of fibro-cartilage on the head of the tibia. The crucial ligaments (fig. 226) are two strong fibrous cords be- Two crucial tween the ends of the tibia and femur, which maintain the bones ligaments, in contact. They cross one another like the legs of the letter X, and have received their name from that circumstance. One is much anterior to the other at the tibial attachment. The anterior ligament (/) is very oblique in its direction, and is Anterior is longer than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached in front of the oblique; spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface, reaching back i^ents^^^'' to the inner point of the spine ; superiorly it is inserted into anDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 702 Posterior is vertical; its attach- ments. Their use. Both unit the bones. Eotation in checked by- anterior. Special use of anterior, and poste- rior crucial. Semilunar cartilages Common characters. impression on the hinder part of the inner surface of the external condyle of the femur. The posterior ligament (e), the thicker of the two, is almost vertical between the bones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the hindmost impression of the hollow behind the spine of Fig. 226.- the tibia, near the margin of the bone ; and above, it is inserted into a mark occupying the lower part of the outer surface of the internal condyle, and extending forwards to the centre of the intercondylar fossa. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint may now be studied after the external liga- ments have been cut through. As long as both ligaments are whole the bones cannot be sepa- rated from each other. Eotation in of the tibia is stopped by the anterior crucial. Eotation out is not checked by either liga- ment ; for the bands uncross in the execution of the movement, and will permit the tibia to be turned hind part foremost. Supposing the tibia to move as in straightening the .limb, the an- terior prevents that bone being carried too far forwards by the extensor muscle, or by external force ; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put in front of the femur. Its use is shown hj cutting it across, and leaving the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half-bent state of the joint. The posterior crucial prevents displacement backwards of the tibia by the flexors or by force ; and it is stretched in extreme flexion, in which the tibia is being drawn back over the femur. This use will be exemplified by cutting across the posterior (in another joint or in another dissection) and leaving entire the ante- rior ; when this has been done, the articular surfaces of the tibia can be carried nearly altogether behind the condyles of the femur. The two interarticular ov ser)iilunar fibro-cartilages (fig. 227) partly cover on each side the articular surface of the tibia. They are thick at the convex margin, where they are united by * Interarticular ligaments of the knee-joint, a. Internal, and b, external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; the latter rather displaced by the bending of the joint, e. Posterior crucial ligament, with d, the ascending ligamentous band of the external fibre-cartilage. /. Anterior crucial ligament, g. Patellar surface of the femur.I^iTRACAPSULAE, LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. fibres to the capsule, and are thin, sharp, and free at the concave edge ; they are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in ■giving depth to the fossae for the reception of the condyles of the femur, but are flattened below. Inserted into the tibia at their •extremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attachment to Fig. 227." the bone, like the crucial liga- ments ; and they become car- tilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is re- flected over them. The internal fihro-cartilacje (a) is oval in form, and is less -sharply curved than the external. In front it is attached by a pointed end close to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial 'ligament. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the -attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. The external fibro-cartilage (h) is nearly circular in form, and is External ■connected to the bone within the points of attachment of its fellow, "uiar'hi'^ Its anterior part is fixed in front of the spine of the tibia, close to form: the outer articular surface, and opposite the anterior crucial ligament which it touches ; and its posterior extremity is inserted behind and between the two osseous points of the spine. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the fore part is in the centre of the joint, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that meml)rane. The outer fibro-cartilage is provided with two accessory bands, one in front, the other l)ehind. The anterior or transverse ligament (c) is a narrow band of fibres its trans- between the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Some- '^^^^^^^ times it is very small or even absent. The posterior or ascending band {d), thicker and stronger than the posterior other, springs from the back of the outer fibro-cartilage, and is inserted into the femur, as a single band (fig. 226, d), when it is generally in front of the posterior crucial, or as two bands—one being before, and the other behind that ligament. Use. The fibro-cartilages deepen the sockets of the tibia for the Use of fibr* reception of the condyles of the femur, and fill the interval between ° ' the articular surfaces of the bones at the circumference of the joint ; they distribute the pressure of one ])one on the other over a larger surface, and cause the force of shocks to be diminished in transmis- * "View of the head of the tibia with the fibro-cartilages attached : the -crucial ligaments liave been cut through, a. Inner, and 6, outer semilunar fibro-cartilage. c. Transverse, and d, ascending or posterior baud (cut) of the external cartilage, c. Posterior, and /, anterior crucial ligament.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 704 in flexion and exten- sion, and in rota- tion : use of acjcessory bands. Surfaces of bone. On femur, patellar and tibial charactei'f of tibial: peculiarities of inner. Articular surfaces of tibia. Subdivision of joint- surface of Ijatella. Kinds of movement. Flexion : movement of tibia; change in direction : sion. In flexion and extension they move forwards and backwards with the tibia over the femoral condyles. During flexion they recede somewhat from the fore part of the joint, and surround the narrow parts of the condyles; but in extension they are flattened out on the surface of the tibia. Of the two cartilages, the external moves the most in consequence of its being less attached to the capsule. In rotation the fibro-cartilages follow the condyles of the femur, and glide over the tibial articular surfaces, the external moving more than the internal. The accessory bands ia front and behind serve to retain in place the less fixed external fibro-cartilage; thus the anterior ligament keeps forwards the front of that cartilage in flexion, and the posterior secures the back of the same from displacement in rotation. Articular surfaces of the hones. The end of the femur is marked by a patellar and two tibial surfaces. The patellar is placed in the middle above the others ; it is hollowed along the centre, with a slanting surface on each side, the outer being much the larger of the two. The surfaces for contact with the tibia, two in number, occupy the ends of the condyles, and are separated from the patellar im- pression by an oblique groove on each side. At the lower part of each is a somewhat flattened surface, which is in contact with the tibia in standing; while behind there is a more convex portion, which touches the tibia in flexion. The inner condyle of the femur is curved in its anterior third, the concavity being directed outwards and backwards : this has been named the " oblique curvature." Along the concave margin of the curve is a semilunar facet, which touches the perpendicular surface of the patella in extreme flexion. On the head of the tibia are two slight articular hollows, the inner being the deeper and larger, which rise towards the middle of the bone, on the points of the tibial sj)ine. The joint-surface of the patella has the following marks. Close to the inner edge is a narrow ^perpendicular facet, and along the lower border is a similar transverse mark. Occupying the rest of the bone is a squarish surface, which is subdivided by a vertical and a transverse line into two pairs of facets—upper and lower. Movements of the joint. The chief movements of the knee are two in number, bending and straightening, like the elbow ; but there is, in addition, rotation of the tibia when the joint is bent. Flexion and extension. Each of these movements may be divided into stages for the purpose of indicating changes in its direction. In flexion, the tibia with its fibro-cartilages moves backwards round the end of the femur ; and the motion is limited by the extensor muscle, and by the meeting of the calf of the leg with the thigh. For the anterior third of the movement the tibia is directed back- wards and inwards along the oblique curve of the inner condyle, giving rise to an inward rotation of the leg ; but for the posterior two-thirds, the tibia passes straight back and up over both condyles.705 MOVEMENTS OF THE KNEE. All the external ligaments are relaxed, except the anterior ; and state of the same is the case with the anterior crucial : the posterior crucial ^'8*°^®°*^- ligament is put forcibly on the stretch towards the end of flexion. In extension, the tibia is carried forwards until-it passes slightly Extension: beyond the line of the femur, when the uniting ligaments prevent movement •^e^x. ^ ^ ^ ot tibia; its larther progress. In the hinder two-thirds of the movement the tibia has a straight course course over the condyles of the femur ; but in the anterior third the ° leg-bone is directed forwards and outwards over the oblique curve of the inner condyle and is rotated out. The posterior and lateral ligaments, together with the whole of state of the anterior crucial ligament, are rendered tense and set a limit to ments. the movement. Rotation. A half-bent state of the knee is necessary for this Two kinds movement, for the purpose of relaxing the anterior crucial and the ^'otation. lateral ligaments ; and the foot must be free. Then, the tibia with its fibro-cartilages rotates around, a longitudinal axis, the great toe being turned in and out. During rotation in, the inner articular surface of the tibia moves Rotation in : but little beneath the inner condyle of the femur ; but the outer movement articular surface, with its fibro-cartilage, glides forwards under the external condyle. Both lateral ligaments are loose ; but the anterior crucial is state of gradually tightened, and finally stops the motion. igamen &. In rotation out the opposite movement of the tibia takes place,— Rotation the outer articular surface being directed backwards. The internal lateral ligament is gradually tightened, and controls the movement : the crucials have not any influence on it (p. 702). Movement of the patella. When the knee passes from flexion to ex- Movement tension, the patella travels upwards and slightly inwards over the ^^^^^^^^ • lower end of the femur, touching in succession difi'erent parts of the femoral articular surfaces. In complete flexion the knee-pan lies on the outer part of the in flexion, joint below the femur, where it is scarcely perceptible, and is fixed in its situation. It touches the semilunar surface on the inner condyle by its perpendicular facet ; and the imder part of the outer condyle by the upper and outer mark on its square surface. When the joint is passing from flexion to extension, the upper g^^pj^j^|.gj^ pair of impressions on the Sf juare surface of the patella, and the ing;" lower pair rest successively on the trochlear surface of the femur. In complete extension, the patella is situate at the upper part of in exten- the knee-joint, where it is very prominent, with its apex and the ligament of the patella directed down and out to the tibia. For the most part the knee-pan articular surface is raised above the trochlea position to of the femur, which it touches only at the upper edge by its lower transverse facet. Peroneo-Tibial Articulations. The tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at the extremities where they touch, and by fibula, an interosseous membrane between the shafts of the bones. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the front and Dissection of the liga- Z Z ments.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 706 Upper rj- ticulatioD, by anterior and poste- rior band. Synovial sac. Lower ar- ticulation anterior, posterior, inferior, and interos- seous liga- ments. Interosse- ous mem- brane be- tween the shafts: attach- ments ; apertures. Motion slight, la upper, Lack of the interosseous membrane ; and the loose tissue is to be removed from small bands in front of and behind the upper and lower ends of the tibia and libula. The UPPER ARTICULATION has very slight movement, and the structures between the ends of the bones are two small bands, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligmient extends over the joint from the outer tube- rosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The posterior ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to the bones behind the joint : it is covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle and a prolon- gation of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and the synovial ca.vity of the articulation is only separated by the thin posterior liga- ment from that of the knee-joint. The LOWER ARTICULATION possesses anterior, posterior, and inferior bands, together with an interosseous ligament (inferior) between the ends of the bones. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower end of the tibia to the fibula ; and the posterior has attachments behind the articulation similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament closes the notch at the back between the contiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of transverse yellowish fibres distinct from the posterior ligament. It is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula above the pit; and on the other it is inserted into the contiguous part of the tibia, and into the posterior edge of the articular surface, so as to assist in deepening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. This band cannot be seen until the astragalus has been disarticulated after the examination of the ankle-joint. The inferior interosseous ligament consists of strong bundles of fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards between the adjacent rough surfaces at the lower ends of the two bones. This also may be seen after the dissection of the ankle-joint, by sawing longitudinally the ends of the leg-bones. The INTEROSSEOUS MEMBRANE fills the interval between the bones of the leg, and serves as an aponeurotic partition between the muscles on the front and back of the limb. Its fibres are directed for the most part downwards from the tibia to the fibula ; but a few cross in the opposite direction. Internally it is fixed to the outer edge of the tibia ; and externally, to the prominent interosseous ridge on the inner side of the fibula. In its upper part, close to the neck of the fibula, is an oval opening about an inch in length, which transmits the anterior tibial vessels; and at the lower end, between the membrane and the inferior articulation, is another small opening for the anterior peroneal vessels. Movement. Very little movement is allowed in the tibio-peroneal articulations, as the chief use of the fibula is to give strength and elasticity to the ankle-joint, and attachment to muscles of the leg. In the upper joint there is a slight gliding chiefly from withinLIGAMENTS OF ANKLE-JOINT. 707 out. In the lower articulation the ligaments permit some yielding and lower - - -- - artic"''- tion. of the fibula to the pressure of the astragalus, as when the weight ^^^^^^i^- of the body is thrown on the inner side of the foot; but if the force is violent, that bone will be fractured about the junction of the third and lowest fourths sooner than the ligaments give way. Articulation of the Ankle (fig. 228). The ankle is a hinge or Bones in ginglymoid joint, in which the upper part of the astragalus is received jJint"^^^" into an arch formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula; and the four ligaments belonging to this kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissection. To make the dissection required for the liojaments of Dissection ^ ^ of the ankle- joint. Fig. 228. * the ankle-joint, the muscles, and the fibrous tissue and vessels must be removed from the front and back of the articulation. For the purpose of defining the lateral ligaments, the limb must be placed first on one side and then on the other. The internal liga- ment is wide and strong, and lies beneath the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The external is divided into three separate pieces ; and to show these, the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus, should be taken away. The anterior ligament is a thin fibrous membrane, which is Anterior attached to the tibia close to the articular surface ; and to the upper tWrTEuid part of the astragalus near the articulation with the navicular bone, imperfect. In the ligament are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. The posterior ligament is thinner than the anterior, and is attached Posterior to the tibia and astragalus, close to the articular surfaces of the ^^s^"^®"^ bones. Towards the outer side it consists of transverse fibres, * Internal lateral ligament of tlie nnkle (altered from Bourgery). 1. Pos- terior, 2, middle, and 3, anterior fibres of the inner ligament. 4. Internal calcaneo-navicular ligament. z z 2DISSECTIO^^ OF THE LEG. 708 Internal or deltoid : attach- ments. External has three pieces; anterior. middle, and pos- terior : relations. Open the ankle-joint. Synovial Surfaces of the bones in the joint. Kinds of motion. Flexion : moving bone ; state of ligaments. wMcli are fixed into the hollow on the inner side of the external malleolus. The internal lateral or deltoid ligammt (fig. 228) is attached by its upper, smaller end to the inner malleolus, and by its base to the tarsal bones, by fibres which radiate to their insertion in this manner :—The posterior (^) are directed to the hinder part of the inner surface of the astragalus ; the middle (^) pass vertically to. the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis; and the anterior f), which are thin and oblique, join the internal calcaneo-navicular ligament and the inner side of the navicular bone. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum are in contact with this, ligament. The external lateral ligament (fig. 229) consists of three separate pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior, which are attached to the astragalus and the os calcis. The anterior piece Q) is a short flat band, which is directed from the fore part of the malleolus to the side of the astragalus in front of the lateral articular surface. The middle portion (^) descends from the tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The posterior (^) is the strongest, and is almost horizontal in direction ; it is fixed externally to the pit on the inner surface of the malleolus, and i& inserted into the external tubercle and adjoining posterior part of the external surface of the astragalus beliind the lateral articular facet. The posterior and middle fasciculi are placed beneath the peronei muscles. The middle piece is but slightly in contact above with the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint; and both it and the posterior piece touch the synovial membrane between the astragalus and the os calcis. Dissection. Dividing the ligaments of the ankle-joint, separate the astragalus from the bones of the leg, to see the osseous surfaces, entering into the joint. The synovial merabrane of the joint lines the capsule, and is. simple in its arrangement; but the cavity is continued upwards for a short distance between the tibia and fibula. Articular surfaces. On the tibia there are two articular surfaces,, one of which corresponds with the end of the shaft, and the other with the malleolus. On the fibula the surface of the malleolus which is turned to the astragalus is covered with cartilage. The astragalus has a central articular surface, wider before than behind and trochlea-shaped, which touches the end of the tibia ; and on its sides are articular impressions for contact with the malleoli, but the outer one is the larger. Movements. Only the movements of flexion and extension are per- mitted in the ankle ; in the former state the toes are raised towards the fore part of the leg ; and in the latter, they are pointed towards the ground. In flexion the astragalus moves backwards so as to project behind; and the motion is arrested by the wide part of the astragalus being wedged in between the malleoli. The posterior ligament is stretched over the projecting astragalus.MOVEMENTS IN ANKLE-JOITsiT. and the posterior and middle pieces of tlie external lateral, and tlie posterior part of tlie internal lateral ligament, are made tense. In extension the astragalus moves forwards over the end of the Extension tibia, and projects anteriorly. A limit to the movement is imposed moving by the meeting of the astragalus with the tibia behind. ^^^^' The lateral ligaments are partly made tight as in flexion, for state of instance, the anterior piece of the external, and the fore and middle ^^s^™^"*^ portions of the internal. When the joint is half extended, so that the small hinder part of slight later the astragalus is brought into the arch of the leg-bones, a slight movement of the foot inwards and outwards may sometimes be obtained ; but if the foot is forcibly extended, the portions of the Literal ligaments attached to the astragalus prevent this lateral movement by their tightness. Dissection. The joints of the foot will be demonstrated by re- Dissection moving from both the dorsum and the sole all the soft parts which J^j^^j^g^Qf have been examined. Between the clifl'erent tarsal bones bands of the foot, ligament extend, which will be defined by removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 230). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Articulation of the astragalus and os calcis. These bones Astragalus form two joints, and are kept together by a strong interosseous liga- J^idg'^^y ment; there are also thin bands on each side and behind. The posterior ligament (fig. 230, a) consists of a few fibres between posterior, * External lateral ligament of the ankle (altered from Bourgery). 1. Anterior part, 2, posterior part, and 3, middle part of the outer ligament. 4. Interosseous of astragalus and os calcis. 5. External calcaneo-navicular ligament.710. DISSECTION OF THE LEG. the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor halliTcis ; the internal ligament is a small band passing from the internal tubercle of the astragalus to the sustentaculum tali ; and the external ligament (b) is connected to the sides of the astragalus and OS calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 230, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, -which are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 713) the articular surfaces of the bones will be seen, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial cavities. Movements. It is between the astragalus and os calcis that the important movements of the foot known as inversion and eversion chiefly take place. The motion is one of rotation about an oblique axis, which is directed from the upper and inner part of the head of the astragalus, backwards, downwards, and outwards to the lower- and outer part of the posterior extremity of the os calcis. Sup- posing the astragalus fixed between the malleoli, and the rest of the foot free to move, then in inversion the outer part of the os calcis moves forwards and downwards, and the sustentaculum tali in the opposite direction, while the anterior end of the bone is carried somewhat inwards. As a result of this, aided by corresponding movements of the anterior tarsal bones, the fore part of the foot is depressed, and the arch increased ; the toes are moved inwards ; and the outer border of the foot sinks, turning the sole in. In eversion the above movements are reversed. * View of the dorsal ligaments of the tarsus, a. Posterior, h, external, and c, interosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. cl. Astiagalo- navicular. e. External calcaneo-navicular. /. Internal, and g, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments, h. Dorsal naviculo-cuboid band, i, k, I. Dorsal external,, middle, and internal naviculo-cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal trans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones. internal, external, and interos- seous liga- Articular •surfaces; synovial cavities. Movement between as- tragalus and OS calcis: axis of motion. Inversion. Eversion711 LIGAMENTS OF TARSAL BONES. In the ordinary mode of standing the foot is everted to the Condition of utmost, or nearly so, by the Aveight of the body ; if then inversion gtandhio- • is practised, the inner side of the foot is raised from the ground, effect of ' and the part is supported on its outer edge. inversion. Astragalus WITH THE NAVICULAR BONE. The head of the Astragalus astragalus is received into the hoUoAV of the navicular bone, and is navicular united to it by a dorsal ligament; but the place of plantar and bone: lateral ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the navicular bone. The astragalo-navicular ligament (fig. 230, d) is attached to the dorsal astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the ^'sament. navicular bone : its attachments will be better seen when it is cut through. Dissection. The external ligament of the articulation may be seen To lay bare on the dorsum of the foot in the hollow between the os calcis and nav?cuia?^"" the navicular bone. Supposing the tendon of the tibialis posticus ligaments, removed, the internal ligament will be exposed, covering the head of the astragalus on the iimer side and below. The internal or inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament (fig. 232, c) is Internal attached behind to the inner and fore parts of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, and in front, to the inner extremity and lower border of the navicular bone. This ligament is partly fibro-car- tilaginous ; its inner side is crossed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle ; and its deep surface forms part of the socket for the head of the astragalus. The external calcaneo-navicular ligament (fig. 230, e) is placed outside the head of the astragalus, and is about three-quarters of an ° inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the upper part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is inserted into the outer side of the navicular bone. The synovial cavity of this articulation is continued backwards Synovial into the joint between the front of the os calcis and the astragalus. Articular surfaces. The head of the astragalus has three convex Surfaces of articular surfaces, a large one in front, elongated transversely and broader externally than internally, for the navicular bone ; a narrow oblique surface below for the os calcis ; and a small intermediate triangular facet internally for the internal calcaneo-navicular liga- ment. The surface of the navicular bone is hollowed, and is widest externally. Movement. The navicular moves down and in over the head of Movement: the astragalus in inversion, or up and out in eversion. As the bone is forced downwards, the upper and external liga- state of ments of the joint are made tight; and when the navicular is moved ^^s^'"^"^^- in the opposite way, the strong internal ligament is put on the stretch. The OS calcis with the cuboid bone. The ligaments in this Os calcis articulation are plantar, dorsal, and internal. bone,^by^"^ The dorsal or superior calcaneo-cuhoid ligament (fig. 230, g) is a dorsal rather thin fasciculus of fibres, which is attached near to the con- tiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone ; it is sometimesDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 712 divided into two pieces, or it may be situate at the outer border of the foot. internal, At the inner side of the cuboid bone is a variable internal band (fig. 230, /) from the cs calcis ; this is fixed behind to the upper part of the os calcis, outside the band to the navicular bone, and in front to the contiguous inner side of the cuboid. and inferior The inferior calcaneo-cuhoid ligament is much the strongest, and ligaments. |g divided into a superficial and a deep part: — The last is The superficial portion or long plantar ligament (fig. 231,^) is and divided ^^^ached to the under surface of the os calcis between the pos- into two parts: terior and the anterior tubercles ; its fibres pass forwards to be connected with the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone ; superficial but the most internal are continued over the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, assisting to form its sheath, and are inserted into the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, deep band. The deep piece or shoi^t j^^a^iiar ligament (fig. 232, 6), seen on division of the superficial (a), extends from the tubercle and the hollow on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the cuboid bone internal or posterior to the ridge. Synovial The synovial cavity of the articulation is simple, sae. * Plantar ligaments of the foot (Bourgery). 1. Long plantar ligament. 2. Inner part of the shorb plantar ligament. 3. Tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. f View of the inferior ligaments of the tarsal bones, a. Long plantar, cut. b. Short or deep inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, c. Internal calcaneo- navicular, d. Plantar transverse naviculo-cuboid ligament, e. Dorsal inner naviculo-cuneiform extending into the sole of the foot. /. Plantar transverse ligament between the inner and middle cuneiform bones, g. Plantar trans- verse band between the cuboid and outer cuneiform.TEANSVERSE TARSAL ARTICULATIOX. 713 Articular surfaces. Both bones are flattened towards the outer Surfaces of part of the articulation; but at the inner side the os calcis is hollowed transversely, and the cuboid bone is convex to fit into it. Movement. In this joint the cuboid bone may move in two direc- Movement: tions, viz., obliquely down and in with inversion of the foot, and up and out with eversion. In the downward movement the internal lateral and the upper state of ligament are made tight; and in the upward, the calcaneo-cuboid I'S^^i^^^s. ligaments of the sole are stretched. Transverse tarsal articulation. This name is given to the Transverse line of articulation crossing the foot between the astragalus and os cuiation calcis behind and the navicular and cuboid bones in front : it will be noticed, however, that it is not a continuous joint, but is com- includes posed of two separate articulations, viz., the astragalo-navicular and ^^^jomts, the calcaneo-cuboid. These joints participate, as has l)een already seen, in the move- movements-; ments of inversion and eversion, the anterior bones moving over the hinder ones, downwards and inwards in inversion, and upwards and outwards in eversion. It is at this line that the foot is amputation divided in the operation known as Chopart's amputation. he?e.*^^^^^ Dissection. Saw through the astragalus in front of the attachment Dissection, of the interosseous ligament l)etween it and the os calcis, and remove the head of the bone in order to see the disposition of the inner and outer calcaneo-navicular ligaments. Then the interosseous ligament uniting the astragalus and the os calcis is to be cut through, to demonstrate its attachments, the iirttcular surfaces of the bones, and the synovial sacs (p. 704). Articular surfaces of the two hinder tarsal bones. There are two Surfaces of articular surfaces, anterior and posterior, to both the astragalus and ^^^^^"^ the OS calcis. The hinder one of the os calcis is convex from before back, and the anterior is concave ; but sometimes the latter is subdivided into -two. The surface of the astragalus will have a and astra- form exactly the reverse of that of the os calcis, viz., the hinder one saius. concave and the anterior convex ; the anterior is seated on the head of the astragalus. Dissection. The calcaneo-cuboid joint may be opened to see the •articular surfaces ; and the student is to keep in mind that all the other articulations of the foot are to be opened for the like purpose, even should directions not be given. ArticulxVTIONs op the navicular bone. The navicular bone Union of the is united in front to the three cuneiform bones, and laterally to the {Jonlf"^*^ cuboid. In the articulation icith the cuneiform hones (fig. 230) there are to the cunei- three longitudinal dorsal ligaments (i, k, I), one to each bone ; but the innermost is the strongest and widest, and extends round the inside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 232, e). The place of plantar bands is supplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The naviculo-cuneiform articulations form one continuous ioint, «y»oviai ' sac:71.4 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. to the cu- boid bone; synovial sac. Union of the cuneiform bones one with another, and with the cuboid bone: synovial sac. Common synovial sac. Surfaces of bones. Motion in inversion and ever- sion ; state of the ligaments, and joints in standing. Union of the meta- tarsus by dorsal, and from their synovial cavity offsets are sent forwards between tlie cuneiform bones. Between the navicular and cuboid hones there is an oblique dorsal hand of fibres (fig. 230, li) ; a transverse i^lantar hand (fig. 232, d)^ which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament. When the bones touch, the surfaces are tipped with cartilage, and a process of the naviculo-cuneiform synovial cavity extends between them. Articulations of the cuneiform bones. These bones are united to one another by cross bands ; and the external one articulates with the cuboid after a similar manner. The three cuneiform hones are connected together by short trans- verse dorsal hands (fig. 230, n) between the upper surfaces, andwifer- osseous ligaments between the rough parts of the contiguous sides of the bones. Laterally there are articidar surfaces between the bones, with offsets of the common synovial cavity. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone, the sur- faces are covered with cartilage. A dorsal ligament (fig. 230, n) passes transversely between the two ; and a plantar ligament (fig. 232, g) takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. This joint is furnished either with a distinct synovial sac, or with a prolongation of the common synovial cavity. The synovial cavity of the articulations of the cuneiform bones ia common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the navicular and the three cuneiforms, it sends one prolongation for- wards between the inner and middle cuneiform to the joints with the second and third metatarsal bones, another between the middle and outer cuneiform bones, a third outwards to the articulation of the navicular with the cuboid bone (when present), and sometimes a fourth to the joint between the external cuneiform and the cuboid. Articular surfaces. On the navicular are three articular facets, the inner being rounded, and the other two flattened. The three cuneiforms unite in a shallow elliptical hollow, which is most excavated internally. Movement. The cuneiform bones glide up and out on the navicular in inversion of the foot, and down and in in eversion ; and the inner one moves more than the others in consequence of the shape of the articular surfaces, and the attachment to it of the tibialis anticus. When the bones pass down the dorsal ligaments are made tight: and as they rise the interosseous bands will keep them united. In standing these bones are separated somewhat from each other with diminution of the arch of the foot, and stretching of the trans- verse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. The bases of the lour outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have offsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 233) are small transverse bands fromLIGAMENTS OF METATARSAL BONES. 715 233.- the base of one metatarsal bone to the next. The plantar ligaments (fig. 231) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are short transverse fibres between the contiguous rough lateral surfaces : they may be afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another laterally ; the second metatarsal lies against the inter- nal and external cuneiforms ; and the fourth is in contact internally with the outer cuneiform. The articulating surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and their synovial cavities are ofi'sets of those serving for the articulation of the same four metatarsal witli the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, is not united to the others at its base by any intervening bands. The distal ends of the five metatarsal bones are united by the transverse metatarsal ligament ; this has been described on page 686. Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the like parts in the hand, as there is a separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer metatarsals. Articulation of the great toe. The articu- lar ends of the bones are encased by a cayside, and are provided with an up'per and a lower longitudinal hand to give strength to the joint: the lower band is placed between the insertions of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. A simple synovial sac serves for the articulation. The articular surfaces are oval from above down, curved inwards, and constricted in the middle ; that of the metatarsal bone is exca- vated, and the other is convex. Movement. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone down and in and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform with the navicular bone; and this will contribute a little to inver- sion and eversion of the foot. The joint possesses likewise slight abductory and adductory movement. Articulation of the four outer toes. The three outer tarsal bones of the distal row correspond with four metatarsals,—the middle cunei- form being opposite the second metatarsal bone, the external cunei- form touching the third, and the cuboid carrying the outer two bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped with cartilage, and have longitudinal dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments, mth some oblique in the sole. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 233) are thin bands of fibres, which aie * Dorsal ligaments uniting the tarsus to the metatarsus, and the metatarsal bones to each other behind (Bourgery). plantar, and interos- seous liga- ments. Lateral separate from rest synovial sac. Form t)f bones. Motion ui> and down, and lateral motion. Joints of four onter toes: dorsal liga- ments :716 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Jilantar igameiits: lateral li^ ments; oblique plantar. Line of the articulation across the foot. Two syno- vial sacs. Form of the bones. Motion from above down, with abduc- tion and adduction. more or less longitudinal as tlie}'^ extend from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. The metatarsal hone of the second toe receives three ligaments, one coming from each cuneiform hone. The third hone obtains a ligament from the external cuneiform ; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the cuboid. Plantar ligaments (fig. 231). There is one longitudinal hand from each of the outer two cuneiform to the corresponding metatarsal bone ; but between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are only some scattered fibres. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal; they lie deeply between the bones, and are connected with the second and third metatarsals : they will be better seen by cutting the transverse bands joining the bases of the bones. To the bone of the second toe thera are two bands, one on each side;—the inner is strong and is attached to the internal cuneiform ; and the outer is fixed to the external cunei- form bone. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is provided with one lateral slip on its outer side, which is inserted behind into the external cuneiform bone. Oblique plantar ligaments. A fasciculus of fibres extends across from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsals; and from the external cuneiform there is another slip to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Line of the articulation. The line of the articulation between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in consequence of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulation, the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the outer side of the second metatarsal bone ; then about two lines farther back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform ; and finally, half an inch in front of the last articulation, for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone. Two synovial cavities are present in these tarso-metatarsal articu- lations. There is one between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, which serves also for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of the latter bones : this is not always separate from the following. The second is placed in the joint between the external and middle cuneiforms with their metatarsal bones (third and second), and is an offset of the common synovial cavity belonging to the articulation of the navicular with the cuneiform bones (p. 714) : prolongations from it extend between the lateral articular faces of the second, third, and fourth (inner side) metatarsals. Articular surfaces. The osseous surfaces are not flat; for the metatarsal bones are undulating, and the tarsal are uneven to fit into the others. Movement, From the wedge-shaped form of the metatarsal bones, only a slight movement from above down is obtainable ; and this is greatest in the little toe and the next. In the little toe there is an abductory and adductory motion ; and a small degree of the same exists in the fourth toe.717 METATARSO-PHALANGEAL JOINTS. Dissection. All the superficial ligaments having been taken away, Separate the the interosseous ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsus may be seen see o interosseous by separating forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and ligaments, from the cuboid, the latter bone from the navicular, and the bases of the metatarsals- fiom one another. The dissector will find that, in using force, the bones will sometimes tear sooner than the liga- ments. Metatarsus with phalanges. These are condyloid joints, in union of which the head of the metatarsal bone is received into the cavity "i^|atarsu.-i - and plia- of the phalanx. langes, by Each articulation has an inferior and two lateral ligaments, as in two lateral the hand ; and the joint is farther strengthened above by an ex- and inferior• pansion derived from the tendons of the extensors of the toes. A synovial distinct synovial sac exists in each joint. In the articulation of the great toe there are two sesamoid bones, which are connected with the inferior ligament. All these structures are better seen in the hand, where they are more distinct ; and their anatomy is more fully described with the dissection of that part. (See page 332.) Surfaces of bone. The metatarsal bone has a rounded head, Avhich porm of is longest from above down, and reaches farthest on the plantar bones, surface. On the end of the phalanx is a cup-shaped cavity. Movement. In this condyloid joint, as in the hand, there is angu- Kind of lar motion in four different directions, with circumduction. motion. Flexion and extension. When the joint is bent, the phalanx passes Bending under the head of the metatarsal bone ; and when it is extended, extend- the phalanx moves back beyond a straight line with the metatarsal bone. A limit to flexion is set by the meeting of the bones, by the state of ^ stretching of the upper part of the lateral ligaments, and by the ° extensor tendon; and to extension, by the tightness of the inferior, and the lower part of each lateral ligament, and by the fiexor tendons. Lateral movement. The phalanx passes from side to side across lateral the end of the metatarsal bone. Its motion is checked by the '"^^-^^'^ • lateral ligament of the side from which it moved, and by the contact with the other digits. Circumduction, or the revolving of the phalanx over the rounded circular head of the metatarsal bone, is least impeded in the great toe joint; limited, but these movements in the foot are not so free as in the hand. Articulations of the phalanges. There are two interpha- langeal joints to each toe, except the first. Ligaments similar to those in the metatarso-phalangeal joints, viz., Union of the two lateral and an inferior, are to be recognized in these articulations. i^^^^^''^^ses. The joint between the last two phalanges is least distinct; and oftentimes the small bones are immoveably united by osseous sub- stance. These ligaments receive a more particular notice with the dissection of the hand (p. 333). A simple synovial membrane exists in each phalangeal articulation. Synovial Articular surfaces. In both phalangeal joints, the nearer phalanx ^ bones.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 718 presents a troclilear surface ; and the distal one is marked by two lateral hollows or cups with a median ridge. Kiud of Movement. Only flexion and extension are permitted in the two motion, phalangeal joints of the toes, as in the hand. movement In flexion the farther phalanx glides under the nearer ; and in of bone, extension the two are brought into a straight line, state of The bending is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor ligaments, tendon ; and the straightening is limited by the inferior ligament and the flexor tendons. i II719 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. TABLE OP THE ARTERIES OP THE LOWER LIMB. External pudic superficial epi- gastric superficial cir- cumflex iliac profunda muscular anastomotic Popliteal Superior inferior. f Ascending /^External circumflex. -s transverse ( descending. Muscular rticular \ascending transverse internal circumflex . first i^erforating second perforating third perforating . medullary to femur. ^fourth perforating. ( Superficial branch. 1 deep branch. .Upper muscular upper internal articular upper external articular lower internal articular lower external articular azygos articular sural. Anterior tibial Recun-ent cutaneous muscular internal malleolar external malleolar tarsal metatarsal . first interosseous communicating to deep arch ( Three interos- '( seous. digital Peroneal r to great toe and ( half the next. / Muscular j medullary to fibula 1 anterior peroneal (external calcaneal. i Posterior tibial medullary to tibia muscular communicating to peroneal internal malleolar . , , , i Muscular internal plantar. | superficial digital. r Internal calcan ^al external plantar. J muscular J anastomotic. / Posterior per- l. plantar arch , J forating \ digital, for three I. toes and a half. N.B. The branches of the internal iliac artery which end in the limb will b3 found in the Table of the Ai-teries of the Abdomen.720 VEINS OF THE LOAYER LIMB. TABLE OF THE VEINS OP THE LOWER LIMB. Muscular Posterior tibial , Popliteal nterior tibial external saphenous articiilar niuscular. anastomotic . i SuperHcial branch \deep branch. muscular / Perforating branches profunda External plantar ■ internal plantar / communicating to saphenous medullary from tibia , peroneal plantar arch Anterior pero- neal muscular Posterior per- forating digital from three toes . and a half. medullary from fibula. to deep arch interosseous metatarsal. tarsal malleolar communicating to saphenous muscular , recurrent. ■ Branch from dor- sal arch of foot plantar veins from outer side of OS calcis cutaiieous in the leg. V. half the next. / Three interos- \ seous. , . a (Ascending external circumflex . j ^j-ai^gvers l^descendiug. Y Muscular internal circumflex . \ articular 1 ascending Ctransverse, inferior external pudic internal sa- phenous . Branch from dorsal arch of the foot plantar veins about oa calcis communicating with posterior and anterior tibial communicating with deep veins of thigh cutaneous from outer and inner parts of thigh superior external pudic superficial epigastric s superficial circumflex iliac.NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 721 TABLE OF THE NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 1. Iliac braiK'h of ilio-hypogastric. 2. Ilio-inguinal. 3. Crural branch of gcnito-crural.. 4. External cutaneous. fT 5. Obturator G. Anterior crural- Accessory superficial divi- sion >deep division Superficial por- tion deep portion obturator trunk . to pectiueus yto liii?-joint. Articular muscular to plexus in tlie thigh an<l artery to skin sometimes. To liip-joint. f'Yo gracilis -| to adductor longus adductor brevis. j-Muscular I articular /Muscular f To obturator externus \ to adductor magnus. To knee-joint. /To sartorins t to pectineus. '\ middle cutaneous I internal cuta- \ ^ neons Muscular J Anterior and posterior branches. r To i-ectus—articular . } to vastus externus—articular Cto vastus iuternus and crureus—: internal saphe- f Branch to plexus over patelLi I nous . . ( to leg and foot. 1. Superior f To gluteus medins and nnuimus gluteal^ to tensor fascia' latie. 2. Inferior ) „ , ^ gluteal C -'■o gluteus maximus 3. Small scl ill f Inferior })udendal jciaticj cuta neons to gluteal region, thigh, and leg. Muscular . To hamstrings to adductor magnus. 4. Great sciatic external pop- liteal 1^ Articular external cutaneous of le?: peroneal communicating recurrent articular 5. To obtur- ator inter- nus and superior gemellus. 6. To qua- dratus fe- moris and inferior gemellus. 7. Perfo- rating cutaneous. internal i)op- liteal . musculo-cuta- neous. . anterior ti1)ial 'Articular muscular . tibial communi- cating ( To peronei . \ cutaneous to foot and toes r Muscular .} articular (.cutaneous to two toes. To calf-muscles and popliteus posterior tibial . Muscular calcaneo-plantar , internal plantar \ external i)laritar TTo soleus, long flexoi-s J of toes, and tibialis \^ posticus. / Cutaneous I nmscular i four digital ' comnmnicating branch. .INIuscular I Cutaneous I superficial) two digital "] part . 1 conimuni- C eating. Hleeppart. Muscular. 3 A1 CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of The eyeball is tlie organ of vision, and is lodged in the orbit, the eyeball; Supported in that hollow on a mass of fat, it is surrounded by surrounding muscles which impart movement to it; and a thin membrane sheath. (tunica vaginalis oculi or capsule of Tenon) isolates the ball, so as to allow free movement. Parts in Two lids protect the eye from external injury, and regulate the front of it. g^^ount of light admitted into the interior; and the anterior or exposed surface is covered by a mucous membrane (conjunctiva). The dissec- Directions. In the absence of specimens of the human eye, the tion to be structure may be learnt on the eye of the pig or ox. Let the student made on the eye of the procure half a dozen eyes of the ox for the purpose of dissection. One or two shallow basins will be needed ; and some wax or tallow in the bottom of one, or in a deep plate, will be useful. Detach the Dissection. To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and inuscies. outer surface of the external coat, the attachments of the different muscles are to be taken away ; and the loose mucous membrane is to be removed from the front. Form of the The ball of the eye (fig. 234) consists of two parts, which differ in appearance, viz., an opaque posterior portion, forming about five- sixths of the whole, and a smaller transparent piece (cornea) in front; these two parts are segments of different sized spheres, the anterior Position of belonging to the smaller sphere. To the back of the eye the optic optic nerve, j^gpyg attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; and around it ciliary vessels and nerves enter. Diameter. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts to nearly an inch (^ths), but the transverse measures an inch. Coniposi- The organ of vision is composed of central transparent parts, ' with enclosing' membranes or coats. The coats, placed one within coats,^^ ° another, are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent parts^^''^^^ media in the interior are likewise three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour, and the vitreous body. Dissection. Dissection. To obtain a general idea of the structures to be dis- sected, the student may destroy one eyeball by cutting through it circularly: he will then be able to recognise the arrangement of the parts mentioned above, with their strength and appearance, and will be better prepared to follow the directions that are afterwards given.723 SCLEROTIC COAT. Fibrous Coat of the Eyeball. The outer casing of the eye Fibrous consists of an opac^ue hinder part called sclerotic, and of an anterior transparent portion, the cornea. The sclerotic is the firm, whitish, opaque portion of the outer Sclerotic coat of the eyeball, which supports the more delicate structures within. Dissection. To examine the inner and outer surfaces of this layer, Dissection to see the Fig. 234. interior. it will be necessary to cut circularly with a scissors through the cornea close to the sclerotic, and to remove the cornea from the front of the eyeball; on piercing the cornea the aqueous fluid escapes from the containing chamber. The other structures may be then abstracted from the interior of the sclerotic covering, and may be set aside with the cornea for subsequent use. The sclerotic tunic of the eye (fig. 234, a) extends from the Extent of entrance of the optic nerve to the margin of the cornea, forming sclerotic; above five-sixths of the ball. At its back, and a little to the inner side of the centre (one-tenth apertures of an inch), the optic nerve (l) is transmitted through an aperture in it: this opening decreases in size from without inwards, and is cribriform when the nerve is drawn out,—the lattice-like condition being due to the bundles of fibrous tissue between the funiculi of * Diagram of a horizontal section of the eyeball. a. Sclerotic coat. b. Choroid, c. Retina, continuous with the optic nerve behind, with a dark layer outside it. d. Cornea, e. Ciliary muscle. /. Iris. (/. Lens. h. Vitreous body. i. Posterior chamber of the aqueous. L Optic nerve, m. Circular fibres of the ciliary muscle, n. Hyaloid membrane, o. Canal of Petit, r. Canal of Schlemm. s. Ciliary process, t. Suspensory ligament of lens. The dotted line through the centre is the longitudinal axis of the ball. 3 A 2724 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. and before ending in front; outer and inner sur- faces ; thickness circular sinus ; composed of fibrous tissue; vessels and nerves. Cornea: extent and form thickness; surfaces; condition after death. It consists of laminar fibrous tissue, with conjunctiva in front, and an elastic membrane behind; no vessels; many nerves. the nerve. Small apertures for the passage of vessels and nervei< are situate around the optic nerve ; and there are others for vessels at the front and the centre of the ball. Anteriorly the sclerotic is continuous with the transparent cornea. On the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are attached : on the inner aspect it is of a dark colour,' with flocculi of fine areolar tissue (membrana fusca) uniting it to the next coat, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner and whiter about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye." Towards the junction with the cornea it is again somewhat thickened. In its substance, near the union with the cornea, is a small flattened venous space, the canal ofSchlemm (sinus circularis iridis ; fig. 234, r). Structure. The sclerotic consists of bundles of white fibrous tissue,, which interlace with one another, but run for the most part longi- tudinally and transversely. Its vessels are very scanty. Minute filaments of the ciliary nerves have been described, entering the deep surface of the membrane. Cornea (fig. 234, d). This firm transparent membrane forms- about one-sixth of the eye-ball, and measures about half an inch across. Its shaj)e is circular, though when viewed from the front it appears larger in the transverse direction, in consequence of the- opaque sclerotic structure encroaching farther on it above and below than on the sides. It is convex in front and concave behind ; and its thickness is nearly uniform (from ^V^^^ to^^ inch), except near the cir- cumference, where it is somewhat thicker at the junction with the sclerotic. The anterior surface of the cornea is slightly less exten- sive than the posterior, owing to its being overlapped by the sclerotic. Supported by the aqueous humour, it is tense and nearly spherical during life ; but its radius of curvature varies in difi^erent individuals,, and in the same person at different ages, being shorter in the youn< After death it becomes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous- humour ; or if the eye is immersed in water, it is rendered opaque- by infiltration of the tissue by that fluid. Structure. The substance of the cornea is composed of a special kind of connective tissue, arranged in irregular layers. Over the- front the conjunctiva (w^hich is here reduced to its epithelium) is: continued ; and covering the back of the cornea proper is a very thin elastic stratum known as the membrane of Descemet. The latter may be peeled ofi", after a cut has been made through it, in shreds which curl up with the attached surface innermost. At the circumference of the cornea the membrane of Descemet breaks up into processes {j^illars of the iris or ligamentum pectinatum iridis) which are partly reflected onto the front of the iris, and partly joii^ the sclerotic and choroid coats. In the healthy condition the blood-vessels do not permeate the cornea, but cease in capillary loops at the circumference. Numerous fine branches of the ciliary nerves ramify in its substance.725 CHOEOID COAT. Vascular Coat of the Eyeball (fig. 235.) The next cover- vascular ing is situate within the sclerotic, and is formed in large part of f^AoaT^^* blood-vessels; the muscles of the interior of the ball also belong to this coat. It is constructed of three parts,—a posterior (choroid) correspond- Compo- ing with the sclerotic, an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea, and an intermediate ring (ciliary muscle) on a level with the union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection. Supposing the cornea of an eye cut through circularly as before directed (p. 723), it will be necessary to take away the choroid sclerotic to lay bare the choroid coat. With the point of the scalpel P^^*^^"- or with a shut scissors, detach the fore part of the sclerotic from the front of the choroid by breaking through a soft wliitish structure uniting them. Then, the eye being put into water, the outer coat is to be removed by cutting it away piece-meal with the scissors ; in taking it off', the slender vessels and nerves beneath are to be pre- -served. The white ring round the eye in front, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle. For the purpose of obtaining a front view of the ciliary pro- ^j^^^^^^j^'^ €esses, which are connected with the anterior termination of the cho- processes roid coat, let the cornea be removed as before on another eyeball. Detach next the fore part of the sclerotic from the choroid ; and after three or four cuts have been made in it towards the optic nerve, the resulting flaps may be pinned out, so as to support the eye in an upright position. On removing with care the iris, taking it away by an from the centre towards the circmnference, the ciliary processes be- ''iiit^rior neath will be displayed. A posterior view of the processes may be and a pos- prepared on another Imll by cutting through it circularly with scissors, about one-third of an inch behind the cornea, so that the anterior can be removed from the posterior half; on taking away the portion of the vitreous mass adherent to the anterior part of the ball, and washing off the pigment from the back of the iris, the small processes will be made manifest. By means of the last dissection the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it will show the To make a ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the section! relative situation of all the parts. This section which is made with difficulty, should be attempted in water with a sharp large knife, and on a surface of wax or wood, after the cornea and sclerotic have been cut with a scissors. When the eye has been divided, the halves should remain in water. The CHOROID COAT (fig. 234, 5) is a thin membrane of a dark colour. Choroid : and extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball, extent; When viewed on the eye in which the ciliary muscle is entire, it termination- appears to terminate there ; but it may be seen in the other dissec- tions to pass inwards behind the muscle, and to end in a series of projections (ciliarj' processes) at the back of the iris. This covering is rather thicker and stronger behind than in front, relations of Its outer surface is for the most part only slightly attached to the J^J^ace sclerotic by delicate bands of areolar tissue, and has a flocculent726 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. appearance when detached ; but in front the ciliary muscle unites the two coats more firmly : on this surface may be seen small veins arranged in arches, and the ciliary arteries and nerves (fig. 235). of inner; The inner surface is smooth, and is lined by the thin dark pigmen- Fig. 235.* opening behind. Ciliary processes : arrange- ment : two kinds relations to parts around. Structure of choroid tary layer of the retina (fig. 234). Posteriorly it is pierced by a round aperture for the passage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly it joins the iris. The ciliary processes (fig. 236, h) are solid projections on the inner surface of the choroid coat, disposed radially, and forming a circle beneath the ciliary muscle, and the outer margin of the iris. About seventy in number, they comprise larger and smaller eminences, the former being the more numerous, and having a length of about one-tenth of an inch. They increase in depth from with- out inwards ; and at their inner ends they are united by transA^erse ridges. By their free extremities the processes bound peripherally the space (posterior chamber; fig. 237, i) behind the iris; in front, they correspond to the ciliary muscle, and at their inner ends to the back of the iris ; while behind, they are closely applied to the membrane on the front of the vitreous body (suspensory ligament of the lens ; fig. 237, t), and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that structure. Structure. The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are composed of blood-vessels supported by pigmented areolar tissue. Most exter- nally is a delicate stratum of connective tissue known as the lamina * View of the front of the choroid coat and iris—external surface (Zinn). a. Sclerotic, cut and reflected, h. Choroid, c. Iris. d. Circular, e. Radiat- ing fibres of ciliary muscle. /. Ciliary nerves, and g, ciliary arteries, between the two outer coats. A. Veins of the choroid coat (vasa vorticosa).727 CILIARY MUSCLE AND lEIS. suprachoroidea, similar to the membrana fusca of the sclerotic, to which it is connected ; next to this is a layer containing the larger ramifications of the arteries and veins ; and in the deepest part the vessels form a very fine and close capillary network {tunica Ruysch- iana). In the ciliary processes the meshes of the capillary network are larger, and the interstitial pigment disappears towards the free ends of the larger processes. Ciliary muscle (fig. 235, c?, e). In the eye from which the sclerotic coat has been removed, the white ring of the ciliary muscle may be seen covering the front of the choroid coat. The muscle forms a circular band, of a greyish white colour, and about one-tenth of an inch wide, on the surface of the choroid coat, close to the outer margin of the iris. It consists of un- striated fibres, which are in two sets, radiating and circular :— The radiating fibres (fig. 237, e) arise in front from the sclerotic coat close to the junction with the cornea (beneath ?•), and are directed backwards, spreading out, to be inserted into the choroid coat opposite to, and a little behind, the ciliary pro- cesses. Some of the deeper fibres become transverse, and pass gradually, into the follow- ing set. The circular fibres are beneath the radiatin supra- choroid layer, and vascular networks ; ciliary processes. Ciliary muscle : position and form a narrow and circular fibres ; bundle (fig. 237, ni) surrounding the edge of the iris, opposite the inner part of the ciliary processes. Action. The ciliary muscle draws forwards the fore part of the choroid coat and the ciliary processes, and relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens, thereby allowing the lens to become more convex, as required for vision at near distances. The ciliary muscle is therefore the muscle of accommodation. The IRIS (fig. 235, c) is a vascular and muscular structure, about half an inch in diameter, the vessels of which are continuous with those of the choroid coat. Its position and relations may be observed in the difi'erent dissections that have been prepared. Placed within the ring of the ciliary muscle, it is suspended in front of the lens (fig. 234, /), and is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of the light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured in different persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference, it is connected with the choroid coat, and by the attachment; Iris is vas- cular and muscular; situation form; * Posterior view of the fore part of the choroid coat with its ciliary pro- cesses, and the back of the iris. a. Anterior piece of the choroid coat. h. Ciliary processes, c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil, e. Bundles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil, represented diagrammatically.728 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. anterior surface; posterior surface. The pupil. Membrane of the pupil in the foetus situation time of dis- appearance. Component structures. Sphincter and dilator of pupil. How they act. Situation of pigment. Fig. 23; liganientiim pectinatuni with the cornea. The anterior surface is free in the aqueous humour, and is marked by lines converging towards the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with a thick layer of pigment (fig. 237), to which the term uvea has been applied. The aperture in it (fig. 235) is the jjH-^^-iZ of the eye ; this is slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly circular in form ; but its size is constantly varying (from -^^tli to J of an inch) by the contraction of the muscular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the retina. Membrane of the j^upil. In the fa'tus the aperture of the pupil is closed by a vascular transparent membrane, which is attached to the edge of the iris, and divides into two distinct chambers the space in which the iris is sus- pended. The vessels in it are continuous behind with those of the iris and the case of the lens. About the eighth month the vessels become imper- vious, and at the time of birth only fragments of the structure remain. Structure. The stroma of the iris is composed of connective tissue, the fibres of which are directed for the most part radially towards the pupil. In it are in- voluntary muscular fibres, both circular and radiating, together with pigment-cells ; and vessels and nerves ramify through the tissue. Muscular fibres. The sphincter of the pupil (fig. 236, d) is a narrow band about -^-^th. of an inch wide, which is close to the pupil, on the posterior aspect of the iris. The dilator of the 2^upil (e) consists of bundles of fibres which begin at the outer border of the iris, and end internally in the sphincter. Action. Enlargement of the pupil is effected by shortening of the radiating fibres ; and diminution, by contraction of the circular ring. The movements of the iris are involuntary, and regulate the admis- sion of light into the ball. The pigment of the iris is partly interspersed in the substance oi' the membrane, and partly collected into a thick layer on the pos- terior aspect, the above-mentioned uvea, which is continuous with the pigmentary stratum of the retina. The colour of the iris depends upon the nature and quantity of the interspersed pigment. * Enlarged representation of the parts of the eyeball on one side opposite the lens : the letters refer to the same parts as in fig. 234. d. Cornea. e. Ciliary muscle, radiating fibres. /. Iris. g. Lens. i. Posterior chamber. j. Ciliary part of the retina, m. Circular bundle of the ciliary muscle. n. Front of vitreous body. o. Canal of Petit, r. Canal of Schlemm. s. Inner end of ciliary process, t. Suspensory ligament of the lens.729 CILIARY VESSELS AND NERVES. The arteries of tlie iris (fig. 238, b) have a looped arrangement : they are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches (d), but some come from the vessels of the ciliary pro- €esses. On arriving at the ciliary muscle, the long and anterior ciliary arteries form a circle (e) round the margin of the iris ; from this ring other anastomotic branches are directed towards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the edge of the pupil, and end in veins. The vems resemble the arteries in their arrangement in the iris, and terminate in the veins of the choroid coat. The nerves of the iris are the terminal branches of the ciliary nerves : they divide into branches which accompany the blood-vessels, and communicate with one another so as to form <\ plexus which gets gradually iiner towards the pupil (fig. i38, a). Ciliary vessels and nerves (fig. 235). The ciliary arteries are offsets of the ophthalmic '(p. 46), and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. They are classed into posterior nnd anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliary ; but they will not be seen without a special injection of the vessels of the eye. The iMsterior ciliary arteries {(j) pierce the sclerotic coat around and close to the optic nerve, and running forwards on the choroid, <livide into branches which enter its substance at diff'erent points. Two of this set (long ciliary) are directed forwards between the ■sclerotic and choroid, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a ■Arcle round the iris in the ciliary muscle, as before explained. In the ball the outer one lies rather above, and the iimer, rather below the middle. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, are smaller than the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit from muscular iDranches (p. 46) ; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a line l^ehind the cornea, supply the ciliary processes, and join the circle of the long ciliary vessels. In inflammation of the iris these vessels are ^enlarged, and offsets of them form a ring round the cornea. The imsterior ciliary veins have a diflerent arrangement from the ixrteries. The branches form arches {vasa vorticosa; fig. 235, h) in * Distribution of the nerves and vessels of the iris. A. Half of the iris showing the nerves, a. Nerves entering the membrane, and uniting in a plexus, Z*, within it. (Kolliker.) b. Half of the iris with a plan of the vessels, d. Ciliary arteries, e. Arch of vessels at the outer edge of the iris. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iris. (j. Sphincter of the i^upil. Arteries foriTi two circles. Veins. posterior ciliary, two of tlieiii named lon.s ciliary, anterior ciliary. Veins are posterior ciliary.73a DISSECTION OF THE EYE. and anterior ciliary. Ciliary nerves end in iris and ciliary muscle , Space con- taining aqueous humour is partly divided into two by the iris: anterior part; posterior, its bound- aries. Retina is in two parts. Dissection to see the retina. Pigmentary membrane. Nervous retina: the superficial part of tlie choroid coat, external to the arteries, and converge to four or live trunks, which perforate the sclerotic coat about midway between the cornea and the optic nerve to end in the ophthalmic veins. The anterior ciliary veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, receiving tributaries from the iris and the ciliary processes, and accompany the arteries through the sclerotic to end in the oph- thalmic trunks : they communicate with the venous space of the canal of Schlemm (p. 724). The ciliary nerves (fig. 235, /) are derived from the lenticular ganglion, and the nasal nerve (p. 45). Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid as far as the ciliary muscle : at this spot the nerves send offsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibres of the ciliary muscle, enter the iris. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and the choroid, and fine twigs enter the sclerotic. Chamber of the Aqueous Humour (fig. 234). The space between the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris- is suspended, contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the foetus before the seventh month this interval is separated into two by the iris and the pupillary membrane ; but in the adult it is only partly divided, for the two communicate through the pupiL The boundaries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on which a vertical section has been made. The anterior chamber is the larger of the two ; it is limited in front by the cornea, and behind by the iris. The 'posterior chamber (^) is a narrow interval behind the iris at the circumference, which is bounded in front by the iris ; behind by the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour ; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The Retina (fig. 234, c). This layer is the innermost and most delicate of the coats of the eyeball, and is situate between the choroid coat and the transparent mass (vitreous) in the interior. It consists of two parts, viz., a thin membrane internally, continuous with the optic nerve, and a pigmentary layer outside, which adheres to the choroid coat. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an eye which is obtained within forty-eight hours after death. To bring it into view on the eyeball in which the middle coat was dissected, the choroid must be torn away carefully with two pairs of forceps, while the eye is immersed in fluid. In this dissection the pigmentary layer separates from the nervous portion of the retina, and is removed with the choroid coat. The pigmentary portion of the retina is a very thin, dark layer, which lines closely the inner surface of the choroid coat, and is continued over the ciliary processes into the uvea on the posterior surface of the iris (fig. 237). The nervous portion of the retina is a soft membrane of a pinkish grey tint and semitransparent when fresh ; but it soon loses this731 ANATOMY OF THE EETINA. thickness outer surface; translucency, and is moreover rendered opaque by tlie action of appearance water and other substances. In the living state, however, the retina colour is characterized by the existence of a purplish red colour, which is discharged under the influence of sunlight. This part of the retina extends over about the posterior two-thirds of the eyeball, reaching extent; from the entrance of the optic nerve to the outer extremities of the ciliary processes, where it ends in an irregular wavy border—the ora serrata. Its thickness diminishes from behind forwards. The outer surface of the dissected retina is slightly flocculent, owing to the tearing away of the pigmentary layer. The inner sur- face is smooth: it is covered with folds in a preparation of the eye cut in two, but these are accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its proper support. At the spot where the optic nerve expands {poms opticus, optic disc; fig. 239) the surface is slightly elevated {papilla optica) ; but in the centre of this is a slight ex- cavation where the central vessels ap- pear. In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the ball, is a slightly elliptical yellow area (fig. 239), one-twelfth of an inch in diameter, which is named the yelloio spot {macula lutea). Almost in the yellow spot^ centre of this spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which and central appears black in consequence of the thinness of the wall allowing the dark pigment outside to be seen. From the ora serrata a very thin layer is continued on as far as ciliary the tips of the ciliary processes : it is called the ciliary part of the ^^^^^^^^ retina, but does not consist of nervous substance. It is not visible to the naked eye. For a description of the structure of the retina, the student is re- ferred to a work dealing with microscopic anatomy. Vessels of the retina. The central artery of the retina, accompanied Artery of by its vein, enters the eyeball through the optic nerve (p. 46). In the central depression of the optic papilla the artery divides into has four four primary branches,—two inner or nasal (upper and lower), and ^^ranches; two outer or temporal (also upper and lower). The outer branches are the larger, and follow an arched course above and below the yellow spot: all ramify in the innermost part of the nervous coat. No vessels enter the pigmentary layer. The veins have a similar arrangement. In the foetus a branch of the artery passes through the centre of another in the vitreous mass to supply the lens-capsule. fo-'tus. Vitreous Body. This is a soft transparent mass which fills the vitreous body. * Objects on the inner surface of the retina (Soemmerring). In the centre of the ball is the yellow spot, here represented by shading : and in its middle the fovea centralis. To the inner side is the optic disc, with the branching of the artery.DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 732 To obtain view of it, and of its front. Form and position of vitreous : it consists of jelly, with a central canal, iind of tlie hyaloid membrane both are without vessels. fiuspensory ligament: extent; is marked by folds ; inner attachment condition how altered, greater part of tlie space within the coats of the eyeball (fig. 234, h). Dissection. The vitreous body ma}'- be seen on the eye on which the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, the iris, and the ciliary muscle and processes. To obtain a view of its anterior part, with the lens in situation, an eyeball should be fixed upright, and the sclerotic and choroid coats cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea ; then on remo^^ng carefully the cornea, the ciliary muscle and pro- cesses, and the iris, the vitreous body will be apparent. The vitreous body (fig. 234, h) is globular in form, and fills about four-fifths of the ball, supporting the retina. In front it is slightly hollowed, and receives the lens with its capsule {(j), to which it is closely united. It is composed of a thin watery jelly, contained in a transparent membrane named hyaloid. The jelly consists in great part of fluid, which drains away when the vitreous body is exposed on a flat surface, or placed on a filter, and only a very small amount of solid m.atter remains : but whether in the natural state it possesses any definite structure is uncertain. In the central part of the vitreous body, however, there is a canal filled with fluid (hyaloid canal), which extends from the optic papilla of the retina to the back of the lens-capsule, and served in the foetus for the transmission of the capsular branch of the central artery of the retina. This canal is not visible without special preparation. The hyaloid membrane (n) is the thin, glassy, structureless layer enclosing the vitreous body, except at the fore part where the lens is placed. At the bottom of the ball, around the optic papilla, the membrane is closely connected with the retina ; and it sends a pro- longation forwards to line the canal of the vitreous. In front, the membrane becomes thicker as it approaches the ciliary processes, and is continued into the suspensory ligament of the lens. The vitreous mass and the hyaloid membrane are extravascular, and receive their nutritive material from the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspensory ligament of the lens (Zonule of Zinn). This is a transparent membranous structure (fig. 237, placed around the lens-capsule, which joins externally the hyaloid membrane opposite the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached from it, dark lines of pigment cover the surface ; and when these are washed away, plaits (ciliary 'processes) come into view, which are less prominent and longer than the processes of the choroid coat ; but do not ({uite reach the lens-capsule internall}^. The two sets of prominences are dovetailed together,—the projections of one being received into hollows between the other; and in the fresh state the two structures are closely adherent. The membrane contains numerous stiff" radiating fibres, which internally become collected into bundles, and are attached to the margin, and the adjacent part of the anterior surface of the lens-capsule. The tenseness is influenced by the state of the ciliary inuscle, for during its contraction the733 LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. iiienibrane is rendered lax by the drawing forwards of the ciliary processes. Canal of Petit. Around the margin of the lens-cajDsnle is a narrow Canal of space (fig. 234, o) about one-tenth of an inch across, which is situate between the suspensory ligament and the front of the vitreous situation; humour. When the canal has been opened, and filled with air by anterior means of a blow-pipe, it is sacculated at regular intervals, like the f^^^g^^^^^'^^"' large intestine, by the inflation of the plaits of the anterior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens bounds the space internally. Lens and its Capsule. The lens is situate behind the pupil of Lens of the the eye (fig. 234, (/), and brings to a focus on the retina the rays of light entering through that ai)erture. The CAPSULE is a firm and very elastic transparent case, which Capsule of closely surrounds the lens proper. The anterior surface (fig. 234) ^^^^lens: is free, and projects towards the pupil, around which it touches the anterim-^ iris; but externally the two are separated by a small interval—the surface, posterior chamber {i) ; close to the margin of the lens it is joined by the suspensory ligament (t). The jjosterior surface is received posterior into a hollow on the front of the vitreous body, to which it is surface, inseparably united. The circumference of the case gives attachment and cir- to the posterior fibres of the suspensory ligament, and behind this cumference; bounds the canal of Petit (o). The capsule is a structureless glassy membrane, much thicker over is a iiomo- the front of the lens, as far out as the attachment of the suspensory fj^ ",5;brane • ligament, than over the back, where it is very thin in the centre. In the adidt human eye the cax)sule of the lens is not provided with blood-vessels ; but in the foetus a branch of the central artery of vessels only the retina supplies it (p. 731). in foetus. Dissection. The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin Open cap- membranous capsule in which it is enclosed. ''^^ ^ '^^ The LENS is a solid and transparent doubly convex body; but the Surfaces are curves are imetj[ual on the two surfaces (fig. 234, g), the posterior eq^liv"" being greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded ; and the measurement from side to side is one-third of an inch, but dimensions; from before back about one-fifth of an inch. The density increases density ; from the circumference to the centre ; for while the superficial layers may be rubbed off with the finger, the deeper portion is firm, and is named the nucleus. On each surface are three lines diverging from the centre, and lines on the reaching towards the margin; they are the edges of planes or ^'^^^ ^^^^' " septa," where the ends of the lens-fibres meet, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, because they bifurcate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Structure. After the lens has been hardened by spirit or boiling, fti'^ctme is , -, -, • o ■ c -, ,n laminar it may be demonstrated to consist oi a series oi layers (fig. 240) arranged one within another, like those of an onion. The laminae of each surface have their apices in the centre, where the septa meet; they may be detached from one another at that spot, and turned outwards towards the equator of the lens. The lamina) areDISSECTION OF THE EYE. 734 and fibrous, composed of fine parallel opposite aspects of tlie ler fibres which run between two septa on Changes in the lens ivith age. The form of the lens is nearly spherical in the foetus ; but its convexity decreases with age, particularly on the anterior surface, until it becomes flattened in the adult. In the foetus it is soft, rather reddish in colour, and not quite transparent: in mature age it is firm and clear; and in old age it becomes flatter on both sur- faces, denser, and of a yellowish colour. * A representation of the laminae in a hardened lens. Superficial laminae. a. The nucleus, b.CHAPTEE XL DISSECTION OF THE EAE. The organ of hearing is made up of complex bodies, which are Subdivision lodged in, and attached to the surface of, the temporal bone. It is apparatus?" commonly divided into three parts, known as the external ear, the middle ear, and the internal ear. Of these, the last is the essential portion, containing the terminal expansion of the auditory nerve ; and the others are to be regarded as accessory, serving to convey to it the vibrations produced by the sonorous undulations of the air. External Ear. This includes the pinna or auricle and the Parts of auditory canal: the former has been noticed at p. 34, and the latter remains to be described. The EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL (meatus auditorius externus ; fig. Auditory 241) is the passage which leads from the pinna towards the tympanic cavity (a part of the middle ear), from which it is separated in the recent state by the tympanic membrane. Dissection. To obtain a view of this canal, a recent temporal how to ob- bone is to be taken, to which the cartilaginous pinna remains ^^^^ attached. After the removal of the soft parts, the squamous piece of the bone in front of the Glaserian fissure is to be sawn off; and the front of the meatus, except a ring at the inner end which gives support to the tliin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a bone-forceps. The canal (fig. 241) is about one inch and a quarter in length, length; and is formed ]3artly by bone, and partly by cartilage. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely, and describes a slight vertical curve direction ; with the convexity upwards. In shajje it is rather flattened from size and before backwards ; and it is narrowest in the osseous portion. The shape; outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external .ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. The cartilaginous part (a) is largest. It is about half an inch in cartiiagi- length, and is formed chiefly by the pinna of the outer ear, which is ^^^^ ^^^^ attached to the margin of the osseous meatus ; but at the upper and is deficient posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed by fibrous tissue. One or two fissures (fissures of Santorini) cross the cartilage (p. 35). The osseous part (b) is about three-quarters of an inch long in the osseous adult, and is slightly constricted about the middle. Its outer ^*'^^**' extremity is dilated, and the posterior edge projects farther than the outer end.7S6 DissE'iTioy or the eail anterior; the greater portion of the maTgiTi is rough, and gLTef> nermL attstt^hmf^t to die cailQage of the pinna. The inner end k i^maller. and is marked in the dry Lone, except at the npper part wrhere there is a notch in the osseous nfiarghi . hy a groore for the inj^ertion of the membrane of the tympanum ; it is so -doped that the anterior vail and the floor extend inwards beyond the hinder wall and the roc.f fiir neady a quarter of an inch. CMBSonm In the foetus the o^eons part of the meatus is very imperfect, tie f^etm. f^j^ ^^j^ anterior wall being composed of fibrous tissue. After birth the o^eous wall in completed by an outgrowth from the riii, (tympanic bone which support* the membrana tympanL Linmg of th^ m^eatns. A piolongati»i of the integument Une- the auditory passage, and is united more closely to the osseous thai. to the cartilaginous portion; it is continued over the membrane c: the tympanum in the form of a thin pellicle. At the entrance of tiie meatus are a few hairr. In the subcutaneous tissue over the cartilage of the meatus lie some cerraninous glands of a yellow-brown colour , lesembling in form and axrangement the sweat-glands of the skin : tl^se secrete the ear-wax, and open on the surface l>y separate orifices; they are absent in the osseous part, and are most abundant in that small portion of the tube which is formed by fibroa- tiMue. V&sseU and n^rcti. The meatus receives its arferi«* from the po^ terior auricular, the intemal maxillary, and the temjioral branch c: the external carotid p. Sl^ . Its >?«rr^ are derived from the auriculc- * Tertieal seetioa of tiie meatus aoditorias and tvmpannm (Seaxpa). CaztOag^noas part of ibe meatos, Oageom portioa. c. Kembraaia tjmpani. «f. Gaiify of tibe tjmpanam. Bus^tadnan tube.BOUNDARIES OF THE TYMPANUM. 737 temporal brancli of tlie fifth nerve, and enter the auditory passage between the bone and the cartilage (p, 91). Middle Ear. The chief part of the middle ear is the tympanum MidcUe ear or drum, a cavity containing air, which is interposed between the tympamim, external auditory canal and the labyrinth or internal ear. The space is traversed by a chain of small bones, with which special muscles and ligaments are connected. It communicates in front with the pharynx by a canal named the Eustachian tube ; and Kustaciiian behind, it is prolonged into a series of excavations in the mastoid ' ^ ., " . and mastoid part of the temporal bone—the mastoid cells. Small vessels and cells, nerves ramify in the cavity. Dissection. The tympanic cavity should be examined in both a Dissection dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the sf[uamous portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw through the rcjot of bone.' the zygoma and the Glaserian fissure, the tympanum will be brouglit into view by cutting away with the bone-forceps some of the upper surface of tlie petrous portion, and the anterior part of the meatus auditorius. In the recent bone prepare the dissection as above, but without rloing injury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. The TYMPANUM has the form of a very short cylinder, which is Tympanum : l^laced obliquely, so that its end-surfaces (the inner and outer walls form and of the tympanum) are nearer to the median plane in front than behind. The circumference of the cylinder is somewhat irregular, and interrupted at j^arts : in it a roof, a fioor, and an anterior and a posterior Avail are distinguished. The cavity measures about half '^""ensions an inch from above down and from before back. Its breadth may be given as one-sixth of an inch ; but it is wider above and behind' than at the lower and fore parts; and it is narrowest in the centre, owing to the projection towards the cavity of the promontory on the inner wall, and of the tympanic membrane externally. The inner hounddru of the tympanum (fig. 242) is formed by the inner wall outer Avail of the osseous labyrinth, by the parts of AA^hich the con- formation of this surface is mainly determined. Occupying the jreater part of the inner Avail is a rounded eminence called the is marked by prmnontorij (jjr) ; this becomes narrow behind, and its surface is i^^'^'^o^torj^ marked by tAvo or three minute grooA'es Avhich lodge the nerves of ^^'^ grof)ves; the tympanic plexus. AboA'e and beloAv the narroAved end of the ' promontory is an aperture : both lead into the labyrinth. The upper aperture (fo) is semicircular in shape, A\'ith the con- fenestra vexity upwards, and is named fenestra oralis: it opens into the^^^'^' vestibule, and into it the inner bone (stapes) of the chain is fixed. The lower aperture, fenestra rotunda {fr), is rather triangular in ^^^^["^. form, and is situate AA^thin a funnel-shajjed hollow : in the macerated bone it leads into the cochlea ; but in the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane—the secondarA^ membrane of the tympanum. Arching above the fenestra ovalis on this Avail is a ridge of bone ,jC {cf^) AA^hich marks the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and Faiiopius;DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 738 contains tlie facial nerve. Lastly, in front of this ridge, and close to the roof of the fore part of the cavity, is the ending of the canal and canal of for the tensor tympani muscle (ctt). The canal is separated from tympani. ^^^^ Eustachian tube (e^) below it by a thin plate of bone named the cochleariform process; this becomes expanded on reaching the tympanic cavity, and being bent upwards, prolongs the canal beyond the end of the Eustachian tube. In most cases the outer wall of the tympanic portion of the canal is partly formed by fibrous tissue. The aperture by which the tendon of the muscle escapes is placed a little above and in front of the fenestra ovalis. On outer The outer houndary of the cavity is formed by the membrana nTeKaJraua* tympani (fig. 241, c), and the surrounding bone. Above and in tympani and front of the membrane, is the upper opening of the Glaserian fissure, fissure!^^ which is occupied in the fresh condition by the long process of one of the small bones (malleus) and some fibres of its anterior ligament, and by the anterior tympanic vessels. Crossing the membrane * Inner wall of the left tympanum : three times the natural size. jt?r. Promontory, fo. Fenestra ovaHs. fr. Fenestra rotunda, py. Pyramid, cf. Canal of the facial nerve (aqueduct of Fallopius), cut obliquely, c/* Ridge formed by the canal of the facial nerve, am. Antrum mastoideum. tt. Teg- men tympani. ctt. Canal of the tensor tympani. cp. Cochleariform process. et. Eustachian tube. cc. Carotid canal, cty. Canal of tympanic nerve, jf. Jugular fossa.739 MEMBEANE OF TYMPANUM. towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which issues through a special aperture close to the Glaserian fissure. The roof (tegmen tympani; fig. 242, tt) is a thin plate of bone Thereof is separating the tympanic cavity from the cranium. It occasionally perfwi^ed. presents one or more apertures, where the mucous lining of the tympanum conies into contact with the dura mater. The floor separates the tympanum, from the jugular fossa Floor is (fig. 242, j/), and is more or less excavated by small cells, which are extensions of the tympanic cavity, and lined by a prolongation of its mucous membrane. An anterior wall is present only to the lower half of the space, in front is which it separates from tlie carotid canal (fig. 242, cc) ; in the E^acWa^ upper half is the tympanic orifice of the Eustachian tube. tube. The ^posterior wall is similarly deficient in the upper half, where Behind are there is a large aperture leading into a space called the antrum antrum mastoideum (fig. 242, am), from which the mastoid cells are given ofi". Below this opening, but near the inner wall, and on a level with the narrow part of the promontory, is the small conical projec- and tion of the 'pyramid (py). At the smnmit of the pyramid is a small P^^^"^"^' orifice, from which a canal leads backwards and downwards to the aqueduct of Fallopius: the canal lodges the stapedius muscle, with canal Sometimes there is a slender round bar of bone connecting the 'Stapedius, pyramid to the promontory (fig. 242). Some objects that have been referred to above, viz., the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, the mastoid cells, and the secondary tympanic membrane, require separate notice. The MEMBRANA TYMPANI (fig. 243) is a thin translucent disc Tympauif between the external auditory canal and the cavity of the tympanum. 1^1^™''^'^"^ '■ It is rather elliptical in shape, and its longest diameter, which is form and directed from above down, measures about two-fifths of an inch. '''^^' By. its circumference it is attached to a groove at the inner end of attachment; the auditory passage. In the foetus it is supported by a separate osseous ring—the tympanic bone (fig. 243,/). The membrane is position; placed very obliquely, so that it forms an angle of about 45° with both a horizontal and a sagittal plane, the outer surface looking downwards and forwards. It is concave towards the auditory canal, is rather being sloped inwards from the circumference to the centre ; and it projects into the cavity of the tympanum. The handle of the jj^aiieus malleus (one of the ossicles ; b) is attached to the inner side of the fixed to it. membrane from the centre to the upper margin. Structure. The membrane is formed of three strata,—external, it consists internal, and middle. The outer one is continuous with the integu- nemis^^' ments of the meatus auditorius; and the inner is derived from the '^^"1^^^^^^^,^,.. mucous membrane of the tympanum. The middle layer is formed layer, of fibrous tissue, and is fixed to the groove in the bone. From its centre, where it is firmly united to the extremity of the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circumference ; and near the margin, at the inner aspect, lies a band of stronger circular fibres (fig. 243, c), which bridges across the notch at the upper part of the tympanic bone. 3 B 2740 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. A thin part of the membrane in notch. osseous part, situation and termi- nation ; cartilagi- nous part. Mastoid cells: position and extent; open into mastoid antrum; may ap- proach surface; develop- ment. Membrane in fenestra rotunda: construc- tion of three layers. Occupying the notcli above-mentioned in tlie iipj)er part of the osseous margin (iiotch of Rivinus), there is a small piece of the membrane which is softer and looser than the rest {membmna fiaccida), being formed only by lax connective tissue between the skin and the mucous membrane. The Eustachian tube (fig. 241, e) is the channel through which the tympanic cavity communicates with the external air. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is directed forwards and inwards, as well as somewhat downwards, to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and is narrowest at its anterior end. Its course in the temporal bone is along the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, outside the passage for the carotid artery. Anteriorly it ends in a somewhat oval opening, with an irregular margin, which gives attachment to the cartilage. The cartilaginous fart of the tube is nearly an inch in length, and extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx (p. 127). Through this tube the mucous membrane of the drum of the ear is continuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it the mucus escapes. The MASTOID CELLS are air-spaces occupying the interior of the temporal bone behind the tympanum and the external auditory meatus. They reach downwards into the mastoid process, and up- wards for a short distance into the adjoining region of the squamous portion of the bone. In front they communicate with the tympanum through a chamber named the antrum mastoideum (fig. 242, am). Their size and extent vary greatly in difl"erent individuals ; and in some cases they are separated only by a very thin layer of bone from the exterior of the skull on the one side, and from the lateral sinus on the other. In the infant the mastoid antrum is present, but the cells are not formed ; the latter are developed at, or a little before, the period of puberty. The SECONDARY MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUxM is placed in the fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite side of the cavity, viz., an external or mucous, derived from the lining of the tympanum ; an internal, continuous with that lining the cochlea ; and a central layer of fibrous tissue. * Inner view of the membrana tympani in the foetus, with the malleus attached, a. Membrane of the tympanum, h. Malleus, c. Band of circu- lar fibres at the circumference of the membrane, d. Anterior, and e, posterior tympanic artery. /. Tympanic bone.OSSICLES OF THE TYMPANUM. 741 Ossicles of the Tympanum (fig. 245). Three in number, they Ossicles of are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity. The outer one is num are*'^ named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet ; the next, incus, three, being compared to an anvil; and the last, stapes, from its likeness to a stirrup. For their examination the student should be provided with some separate ossicles. The MALLEUS (fig. 244) is the longest bone, and is twisted and Malleus has bent. It is large at the upper part (head ; a) and small and pointed below (handle; c) ; and it has two processes, with a narrowed part or neck. The head or capitulum (a) is free in the cavity, is club- head, shaped, and at the back has a depression for articulation with the next bone. The neck (b) is the constricted part between the head neck, and the processes. The handle or manubrium (c) decreases in size handle, towards the tip, and is compressed from before backwards ; but at the extremity it is flattened from within outwards : to its outer margin the special fibrous stratum of the membrana tympani is connected. The short process (e) springs from the root of the handle on the hort outer side, and is attached to the upper border of the tympanic membrane where it bridges across the notch of Eivinus. The long and long process (processus"gracilis ; d) is during infancy a slender flattened i^'^'^^^-'^^- piece of bone, which projects from the neck of the malleus at the anterior aspect, and extends into the Glaserian fissure ; in the adult this process is most freq^uently converted into a fibrous band ; and in cases where the osseous process persists, it is joined with the surrounding bone, and cainiot be separated. The INCUS is a flattened bone (fig. 244), and consists of a body incus: and two processes. The body (b) is hollowed at the fore part (a) to l>ot^y; articulate with the malleus. The short process (c) is somewhat conical, and projects backwards nearly horizontally ; its extremity rests against the lower and inner part of the margin bounding the opening into the mastoid antrum. The long process (d) is almost and long, vertical, and descends parallel to the handle of the malleus, behind * The three tympanic ossicles of the right side : the central bone is the malleus, the left-hand one, incus, and the right-hand one stapes. Malleus : a, head ; b, neck ; c, handle ; d, long, and e, short process. Incus : a, articular surface for malleus ; b, body ; c, short process ; d, long process ; e, orbicular process. Stapes : a, head ; b, neck ; c, anterior crus ; d, base.742 DISSECTION OF THE EAE. ataiies base; head neck ; am crura. Tlie bones liave two sets of liga- ments ; either to unite one to another by joints, or to tix them to the tympanic wall. Ligaments of malleus are superior. anterior, and external. One hand to incus, and one to stapes. Membrane in aperture of stapes. Two muscles to the ossicles. and internal to which it lies : it diminishes towards the extremity, where it is hent inwards, and ends in a small flattened knoh—the orhicular process (e), for articulation with the stapes. The STAPES (fig. 244) has a base or wider portion, and a head with two sides or crura, like a stirrup. The base (d) is directed inwards, and is a thin osseous plate, convex at the upper margin and nearly straight at the lower, corresponding with the shape of the fenestra ovalis, into which it is received : the surface turned to the vestibule is convex, while the opposite is excavated. The head («) is marked at the extremity by a superficial depression, which articulates with the orbicular process of the incus ; and it is sup- ported on a slightly constricted part, the neck (/>). The crura extend horizontally from the neck to the base, and are grooved on the surface towards the enclosed aperture : the anterior crus (c) is shorter and straighter than the posterior. Ligaments op the ossicles. The small bones of the tympanic cavity are united into one chain by joints, and are farther kept in position by ligaments fixing them to the surrounding wall. Joints of the bones. Where the ossicles touch, they are connected together by articulations corresponding with the joints of larger bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, are sur- rounded by a thin capsular ligarnent of fibrous tissue, and lubricated by a synovial sac. One articulation of this nature exists between the head of the malleus and the incus, and a second between the orbicular process of the incus and the head of the stapes. Union of the hones to the u-all. The bones are kept in place by the reflection of the mucous membrane over them, and by the following ligaments, three being connected with the malleus, and one each with the incus and stapes :— Ligaments of the mcdleus. The siqjerior or suspensory ligament is a slender band which descends from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus. The anterior ligaonent is the strongest of all: it passes from the fore part of the neck of the malleus to a projec- tion at the anterior margin of the notch of Kivinus, and to the sides of the Glaserian fissure. A part of this ligament entering the fissure has been described as a muscle rmder the name of laxator tympani. The external ligament is short and fan-shaped : its fibres radiate from the outer and posterior parts of the neck of the malleus to the edge of the notch. The ligament of the incus attaches the extremity of the short process of that bone to the tympanic wall at the lower part of the orifice of the antrum mastoideum. The annidar ligament of the stapes is composed of very short fibres, which unite the circumference of the base of the stirriiji to the margin of the fenestra ovalis. Special ligament of the stapes. Closing the interval betAveen the crura of the stapes there is a very thin membrane which is attached to the groove of the bone. It is covered above and below by the mucous membrane. Muscles of the ossicles (fig. 245). Two muscles are connected743 MUSCLES OF THE OSSICLES. ?. 245. with the chain of bones, one being attached to the malleus, the other to the stapes. The TENSOR TYMPANi (fig. 245, h) is the larger of the two mus- cles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of its containing tube, which must be laid open to see it completely. The muscle arises in front from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and the posterior extremity of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and it also receives fibres from the surface of its bony canal. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon which is reflected over the end of the cochleariform pro- cess, and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the malleus near its base. Action. The muscle draws in- wards the handle of the malleus towards the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and tightens the membrane of the tympanum ; and as the long process of the incus is moved inwards with the malleus, the base of the stapes will be pressed into the fenestra ()valis. The STAPEDIUS (fig. 245, i) is lodged in the canal hollowed in the interior of the pyramid. Arisi^ig inside the tube, the muscle ends in a small tendon, which issues at the apex of the pyramid, and is inserted into the back of the head of the stapes. Action. By directing the neck of the stapes backwards, the muscle raises the fore part of the base out of the fenestra ovalis, diminish- ing the pressure on the fluid in the vestibule ; and supposing it to contract simultaneously with the tensor, it would prevent the sudden jar of the stapes on that fluid. Mucous MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM. The mucous lining of the tympanic cavity adheres closely to the wall; it is continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and is pro- longed into the mastoid cells through the antrum. It forms part of the membrana tympani, and of the secondary membrane in the fenestra rotunda ; it is reflected also over the chain of bones, the muscles, ligaments, and chorda tympani nerve. In the tympanum the membrane is thin, not very vascular, and secretes a Avatery fluid; but in the lower end of the Eustachian tube it is thick and more vascular, and is provided with numerous glands. Tensor tym- pani : Stapedius contained in pyramid; Lining of tympanum arrange- ment in cavity ; in Eusta- chian tube. * Plan of the ossicles of the tympanum in position, with tlieir muscles, a. Cavity of the tympanum, h. Membrana tympani. c. Eustachian tube. d. Malleus, e. Incus. /. Stapes, g. Laxator tympani muscle, sometimes de- scribed, h. Tensor tympani. i. Stapedius.744 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Arteries are branches of carotids. From inter- nal maxil- lary, middle menin,<;ea], jiosterior auricular, ascending pharjngpal. internal carotid. Nerx'es fron several sources. Dissection to prepare the nerves; outside tympanic cavity, and inside cavity. Blood-vessels. The arteries of the tympanum are furnished from the following branches of the external carotid, viz., internal maxillary, posterior auricular, and ascending pharyngeal; and some offsets come from the internal carotid in the temporal bone. The veins join the pterygoid plexus, and the large meningeal and pharyngeal branches. The internal maxillary artery supplies an anterior tympanic branch (fig. 243, cl ; p. 89), which enters the cavity through the Glase- rian fi.ssure, and gi^'es an offset to the membrane of the tym- panum. The middle meningeal artery also sends fine twigs to the uppei' part of the tympanum through small apertures in the roof of the cavity. The stylo-mastoicl branch of the j^osterior auricular arter}^ (p. 81), entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set. pos- terior tympanic (fig. 243, e), anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the mem- brana tympani, from which offsets are directed inwards. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from the in- ferior palatine artery, enter the fore part of tJie space by the Eustachian tube. One or two minute branches of the internal carotid artery reach the anterior wall of the tympanum from the carotid canal (p. 106). Nerves. The lining membrane of the tymjDanum is supplied from the plexus (tympanic) between Jacobson's and the sympathetic nerve; but the muscles derive their nerves from other sources. (Jrossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection (fig. 246). The prej)aration of the tympanic plexus will require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves have been hardened afterwards in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-pharyngeal is first to be sought close to the skull; and the fine auricular branch of the jmeumo-gastric maybe looked for at the same time (p. 107). Sup- posing the nerve to be found, the student should place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, and carry it backwards through the vaginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but without opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to be followed in its canal; and the branches in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pursued ;—two of these, arching forwards, pass to the sympathetic on the carotid artery and to the Eustachian tube ; and two others are directed upwards beneath the tensor tympani muscle. The course of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the pre- paration used for the muscles.NERVES OF TYMPANUM. 745 The TYMPANIC BRANCH OF THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE Tyiiipauk' (fig. 246,2; nerve of Jacobson, p. 109) enters a special aperture in "^"'"^ the temporal bone (fig. 242, dy), to reach the inner wall of the tym- supplies panum. In this cavity the nerve supplies filaments to the lining meinbrane, membrane, to the fenestra rotunda and fenestra ovalis, and to the Fig. 246.* Eustachian tul)e ; and it terminates in the three undermentioned f . , , . , . , . , branches, branches, which are contained m grooves on the promontory, and viz., connect this nerve with others. Branches. On^ branch is arched forwards and downwards, and '>'ie to s> m- enters the carotid canal to communicate with the sympathetic (^) i^^*^^^*'^' on the artery (p. 115). The second (''') is the small deep jJ^ii'osal nerve, which is directed pgtj34ar'' forwards through a canal beneath the cochleariform process, to join nerve, the carotid plexus of the sympathetic (sometimes also the large superficial petrosal nerve) in the foramen lacerum. And the third (^) has the foUoAving course :—It ascends in front and sinaii of the fenestra ovalis, and near the gangliform enlargement on the jxitrosai facial nerve, to which it is connected by filaments (fig. 38). Be- yond the union with the facial, the nerve is named small suijerficial * Jacobson's nerve in the tympanum (Breschet). a. Carotid artery, b. Tensor tympani muscle, c. Inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve, d. Otic ganglion. Nerves: 1. Petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. 2. Nerve of Jacobson. 3. Sympathetic on the carotid. 4. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 5. Small deep petrosal nerve. 6. Branch to Eustachian tube. 7. Facial nerve. 8. Chorda tympani. 9. Nerve of the otic ganglion to the tensor tympani muscle.746 DISSECTION OF THE EAE. to otic ganglion. Nerves for the muscles Chorda tympani crosses cavity. Branch of vagiis to the outer ear. Labyrinth formed of osseous and mem- branous parts. Constitu- ents of the osseous ])art. Vestibule : dissection to see it; form and dimensions; apertures before and behind; in outer wall ; crest on inner wall, with fossa in front, petrosal, and is continued forwards tlirougli the substance of the temporal bone, to end in the otic ganglion (p. 149). Nerves to Muscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion (fig. 246, ; and the stapedius re- ceives an offshoot from the facial trunk. The CHORDA TYMPANI (fig. 246, ^) is a branch of the facial nerve (p. 147). Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana tympani, lying on the inner side of the handle of the malleus, and issues from the space by an aperture internal to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the lingual nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at page 93. The AURICULAR BRANCH OP THE VAGUS, thougli uot a iicrvc of the tympanum, may now be traced in the softened bone. Arising in the jiilgular fossa (p. Ill), the nerve enters a special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal l)one to the back of the ear. Internal Ear or Labyrinth. The inner portion of the organ of hearing consists of a complex chamber surrounded by dense bone, within which are included sacs containing fluid, for the terminal expansion of the auditory nerve. The Osseous Labyrinth comprises the vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea : in the macerated bone these communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally through the meatus auditorious internus, with the cranial cavity. The VESTIBULE (fig. 247), or the central cavity of the osseous labyrinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in front of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has been used for the i3reparation of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the vestibular space will appear ; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be opened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in different directions, according to the opportunities and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 247) is ovoidal in form, and the ex- tremities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the imder part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part or roof. It measures about one-fifth of an inch in length ; but it is narrower from without inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture (g) leading into the cochlea ; and behind are five round openings of the three semicircular canals {d, e, f). The outer wall corresponds with the tympanum, and in it is the aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On the inner wall, nearer the front than the back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crest (b). In front of the crest is a circular depression, fovea hemispherica (a),747 OSSEOUS LABYEINTH. which, is pierced by minute apertures for nerves and vessels, and corresponds with the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. Be- hind the crest of bone, near the common oj^ening of two of the and aque- semicircular canals, is the aperture of the aqueduct of the vestibule (c), f^^ctbehir a narrow canal which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone : it contains a process of the mem- branous labyrinth called the ductus endolymphaticus, and a small vein. Fig. 247.* The roof is occupied by a slight transversely oval dejjression, fossa in roof. fovea hemielliiJtica ; this is separated from the fovea hemispherica by a prolongation of the crest (h) on the inner wall. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS (fig. 248) are three osseous tubes. Three semi- which are situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their eiSs^'^ form. Dissection. These small canals \^•ill be easily brought into view preparation by the removal of the surrounding bone by means of a file or bone ' forceps. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the posterior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are unequal in length, and each forms more than half length; an ellipse. They communicate at each end with the vestibule, but termination the contiguous ends of two are blended together so as to give only five openings into that cavity. Each is marked by one dilated one end extremity, called the ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not ^^^^^^^ '■> * View of the vestibule of the right side, obtained by cutting away the outer boundary in a foetus, enlarged three times, a. Fovea henaispherica, b. Crest of the vestibule. c. Aperture of aqueduct of the vestibule. (/. Common opening of two semicircular canals, e. Upper semicix'cular canal, partly laid open. /. Horizontal semicircular canal, partly opened, g. Opening of the scala vestibuli of the cochlea.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. '748 form and size: they are named superior vertical, l)Osterioi vertical, Fibrous membrane .lines the labyrinth, and contains a fluid. Cochlea: dissection for it in dry and recent bone: form and situation ; circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about -^^jtli of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and horizontal. The s\ix>erior vertical canal (a) crosses the upper border of the petrous part. of the temporal bone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked by the ampulla, while the inner is joined with the following. The posterior vertical canal (6) is directed backwards from its junction with the preceding to- wards the posterior surface of the temporal bone; it is the longest of all, and has its am- pulla at the lower end. The horizontal canal (c) has separate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level Avith the fenestra ovalis ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that apertui'e. Lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth. A thin fibrous periosteal membrane lines the vestibule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous with the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the vestibule. On the outer wall of the cavity it stretches over the fenestra ovalis ; and in front it is prolonged into the cochlea through the aperture of the scali vestibuli (fig. 247, g). The space between the periosteum and the membranous labyrinth is occupied by a thin fluid—liquor Cotunnii or perilymph, which also fills the scalse of the cochlea. Cochlea. This part of the osseous labyrinth has a position anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resem- blance to a sjDiral shell. Dissection. To obtain a view of the cochlea it will be needful to cut or file away the bone between the promontory of the tympanum and the internal auditory canal on the preparation before used for displaying the vestibule ; or this section may be made on another temporal bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. For the like dissection in the recent state, a softened bone should be used. The cochlea (fig. 249) is conical in form, and is placed almost horizontally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this body * Repx-esentation of the semicircular carjals, enlarged, a, Upper vertical ; b, posterior vertical; and c, horizontal canal, d. Common opening of the two vertical canals, e. Part of the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule.749 THE OSSEOUS COCHLEA. is turned to the meatus auditorius intemus, and is perforated by small apertures ; while the apex is directed to the inner wall of the tympanum, opposite the canal for the tensor muscle. Its length is about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the base is about the same. Resembling a spiral shell, the cochlea consists of a tube wound round a central part or axis ; but it differs from the shell in having its tube subdivided by a partition. The axis or modiolus (fig. 249, a) is the central stem which sup- ports the windings of the spiral tube. Conical in shape, its size resembles a snail-shell in some respects. Central pillar or axis Fig. 249.* diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the tube, but it enlarges at the tip of the cochlea, forming a second small cone {h), which is bent. The axis is perforated by canals as far as the con- tracted part in the last half-turn, and the central one is larger than the others ; these transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state. The s'piral tube forms two turns and a half round the stem, and terminates above in a closed extremity named the cupola. When measured along-the outer side, it is about one inch and a half long. Its diameter at the beginning is about one-tenth of an inch, but it diminishes gradually to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the coils that the tube makes, the first is much the largest ; this projects towards the tympanum, and gives rise to the enunence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first coil. The last half-turn bends sharply round, and presents a free margin (6)—the edge of the axis. In the recent bone the tube is divided into two main passages (scalse) by the septum (fig. 249, c). In the dry bone a remnant of this partition is seen in the form of a thin osseous plate—lamina spiralis, projecting from the axis. Septum of the spiral tube (fig. 250). The partition in the * Section through the cochlea (Breschet). a. Branches of the auditory nerve, contained in the canals of the axis. h. Enlarged upper end of the axis. c. Septum of the cochlea. e. Membrane of iieissner. /. Hiatus or lielicotrema. s.t. Scala tympani. s.v. Scala vestibuli. s.m. Seal a media or canal of the cochlea. is Conical, and i>orous. A s])iral tube, closed at one end, forms 'JA turns; measure- ment ; Tube divided into two. Septum bcmy ami niembra- nous.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 750 recent state dividing the tube of tlie coclilea into two j^assages, con- sists of an osseous and a membranous portion :— Osseous The osseous paii (^), formed by the lamina spiralis, extends about ^^^^ half-way across the tube. Inferiorly it begins in the vestibule, where it is wide, and is attached to the outer wall so as to shut out the fenestra rotunda from that cavity ; and diminishing in size, it ends ends above in a x'oint over an apei'tnre. Lamina spiralis has linibus on upper surface. Spiral prroove. Mem- branous part above in a point—the hamulus, op2)osite the last half-turn of the cochlea. Between the hamulus and the axis is a space, which is converted by the membranous piece of the septum into a foramen (hiatus, helicotrema ; fig. 249,/), and allows the intercommunica- tion of the two chief passages of the cochlear tube. The lamina spiralis is formed by two plates of bone, which en- close canals for vessels and nerves, and are separated farthest from each other at the axis. The upper surface of the lamina is covered in the outer fourth of its extent by a border or limbus of fibrous structure (a), which ends in wedge-shaped teeth near the margin of the bony plate. Between the teeth and the underlying bone is a channel (b) which is called sulcus spiralis: its edges are named vestibular (a) and tympanic (c). The membranous part of the septum (membrana basilaris ; fig. 250, * A diagram of a section of the tube of the cochlea, enlarged (modified from Henle). SV. Scala vestibuli. ST. Scala tympani. CO. Canal of the cochlea. 1. Membrane of Reissner. 2. Cochlear branch of the auditory nerve. 3. Lamina spiralis ossea. 4. Ligamentum spirale. a. Limbus laminse spiralis, h. Sulcus spiralis, c. Tympanic lip of the sulcus spiralis. m h. Membrana basilaris. The remaining letters refer to parts of the organ of Corti.COCHLEAR PASSAGES. 751 m h) reaches from the lower (tympanic) edge (c) of the lamina includes spiralis to the outer wall of the cochlear tube, where it is fixed hj brane^"^^"^' a fibrous band—ligamentum sinrale C). Its width varies, for near and spiral the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across the tube; i^s^"^^^*- but at the apex, where the lamina spiralis is wanting, it constructs the septum altogether. ScALJi: OF THE COCHLEA (fig. 249). The tube of the cochlea is ^^J^^^,* divided by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is lear tube: the scala tympani (s t), and the other scala vestibuli (s v) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by a third canal being cut off from it by membrane. These passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli position; (.5 v) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above, they communi- extent; cate through the aperture named helicotrema (/). Below, they end joined difl:erently, as the names express ;—the scala vestibuli oj)ens into above; the front of the vestibule (fig. 267, g) ; but the scala tympani is separate shut out from the vestibular cavity by the lamina spiralis of the^^^°'^' septimi cochleee, and is closed below by the meml)rane of the fenestra rotunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tympanum. Each has certain peculiarilies. The vestibular scala extends into they difler the apex of the cochlea ; while the tympanic scala is largest near ^nd^s^ize^ the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, which begins at an opening close to the lower end of the opening in scala, and ends at the lower border of the petrous portion of the ' temporal bone : it transmits a small vein from the cochlea. The scala? are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous lining with that in the vestibule : in the scala tympani it helps to close membrane, the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and ioins the fibrous process in the ftTlcl coil- aqueduct of the cochlea. The perilymph fills both scalaj. tents. Canal of the cochlea. In the upper division of the cochlear Cochlear tube a fine membrane (fig. 250, ^) extends obliquely across from the ^^^^^ upper surface of the lamina spiralis, at the inner border of the basilar limbus, to the outer wall of the cavity a little above the spiral membrane ligament. This is called the membrane of Reissner, and separates a ^"ane of' small cavity named the canal or duct of tlie cochlea (c c) from the scala Reissner; vestibuli (s v). The canal thus formed extends from apex to base of the cochlea, and contains a fluid—endolymph. Above, it reaches into the cupola and is closed. Below, it is connected by a very small tube joined by {canalis reuniens; fig. 251, c) with the saccule in the vestibule. ^I^^I^IX^' Within the canal of the cochlea, resting on the basilar membrane, is below; the complicated structure known as the organ of Corti (fig. 250), in contains which the cochlear branches of the auditory nerve end. Corti. Membranous Labyrinth (fig. 251). Lodged in the vestibule xhe mem- are two membranous sacs, the utricle and saccule, from the former |^^byrinth of which tubular offsets are continued into the semicircular canals, consists of These, together with the canal of the cochlea and the organ of Corti, saccule which have been referred to above, make up the membranous ^^^^^g'^^j^"!^'!^' labyrinth. The sacs and their prolongations are immersed in the cochlear canal752 DISSECTION OF THE EAE. Dissection of them in i fresh hone. Utricle : situation. not free in cavity; have ampulke, whicli re- ceive the nerA'es. Saccule has com- munications with utricle and cochlea; macula and otoliths. perilymph, and are themselves filled with a fluid called the endolymph. In them the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. Dissection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with their nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal bone which has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous in- structions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. The UTRICLE (fig. 251, d), or the common sinus, is the larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea hemiellip- tica in the roof. It is trans- versely oval in form, and con- nected with it posteriorly are three looped tubes, which occupy the semicircular canals. At the fore part of the sac is a thickened and more opaque j^art of its wall—ma- cula acustica (e), where the nerves enter ; and opposite this, in the interior, is a small mass of calcareous granules or otoliths. The MEMBRANOUS SEMI- CIRCULAR CANALS (g) are about one-third of the diameter of the osseous tubes, along the convex border of which they lie, being closely attached to the periosteal lining of the bony wall; and the remaining space is filled by perilymph. Each is marked at one end by an ampulla, which is relatively of large size and nearly fills the osseous case. Two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy, so that they communicate with the utricle hj five openings. At each ampullary enlargement there is a transverse projection {cristco acustica) into the interior of the tube; and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the wall. The SACCULE (fig. 251, a) is a smaller and rounder cyst than the utricle, in front of which it is placed, in the hollow of the fovea hemispherica. It communicates with the utricle through the ductus endolymphaticus, and is continuous below by a short and small passage {canalis reuniens; c) with the canal of the cochlea. Like the other sac, it possesses a macula (6) and otoliths where the nerves enter. * Petrous bone partly removed to show the membranous labyrinth of the left side in place (Breschet). a. Saccule ; h, its macula, c. Ductus reuniens. d. Utricle; e, its macula. /. Ampullary enlargement of the external semi- circular canal, g.753 AUDITORY NERVE. minute structure of the be made to a work on Fi"-. 252. membranous microscopic The dudns endolynqjhaticits is a fine tubular offset of the mem- Endo- branous labyrinth, which occupies the aqueduct of the vestibule, dunf^^^'^ and ends in a dilated blind extremity {saccus endolymphaticus), and sac; embedded in the dura mater on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In the vestibule the duct divides it opens into into two small branches, one of which joins the saccule, and the JJScie!'^^^ other the utricle. For an account of the labyrinth, reference must anatomy. Nerve of the Labyrinth. A special nerve, the eighth cranial or auditory (p. 191), is distributed to the labyrintli. Entering the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve (p. 147), it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger piece, each of which again subdivides into three branches. At the bottom of the meatus, the upper piece is marked by a gang- lionic swelling—the intiimescentia ganglioformis of Scarpa. The iqjper division of the nerve sends its branches to the macula of the utricle (fig. 252, c), to the ampulla of the superior vertical semicircular canal, and to the ampulla of the external semi- circular canal. From the loiver division of the nerve proceed an offset to the lower gives saccule («) and a slender branch to the ampulla of the posterior saccule, vertical semicirclilar canal (5) ; but the greater part is destined for ^"^^^"^nd the cochlea. cochlea ; Each of the branches of the auditory nerve breaks up into a ending of v6stioul<ir bundle of filaments, which pass through minute apertures of the branches; lamina cribrosa, to reach their special part of the membranous labyrinth. The nerves of the semicircular canals enter the ampullae on their outer flattened side, and end in the crista acustica ; while those of the sacs end in the respective maculae. The cochlear nerves traverse the canals of the modiolus, and bend ^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^ outwards in the passages of the lamina spiralis (fig. 250,"). As they spiral enter the latter, they join a ganglion (ganglion spirale) which occu- g^^ngiion, pies a winding canal at the junction of the lamina spiralis with the modiolus ; and from this they are continued as fine branches, form- ^^^f. ™' , . . organ oi ing a close plexus, to the organ of Corti. Corti. * Distribution of nerves to the membranous labyrinth (Breschet). a. Nerve to the saccule, h. Nerve entering the ampullary enlargement on the posterior semicircular canal, c. Nerve entering the utricle. The nerve to the cochlea is not represented. 3 0754 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Vpssels of IVibyrintli. Auditory uvtery froii l»asilar, lias a viistibulav, an'I a cochleaf branch. Veins to )ietrosal sinuses and internal jugular. Blood-Vessels. The meniln-aiies of the labyrinth are supplied l^y an artery which enters the internal auditory meatus with the auditoiy nerve. The veins are more numerous. The INTERNAL AUDITORY ARTERY arises froni the basilar trunk within tlie skull (p. 186), and divides in the internal auditory meatus into two branches,—one for the vestibule, and the other for the cochlea. The vestihular artery subdivides into small offsets which enter the cavity with the branches of the auditory nerve, and ramify over the sacs and the semicircular canals. The cochlear branch breaks up into numerous fine twigs which enter the modiolus and the canals in the lamina spiralis. Offset*; supply the nerve and the parts in the neighbourhood of the limbus lamina? spiralis, and others ramify in the periosteal lining of the scalre ; but there are no vessels in the outer part of the membrana 'basilaris. Veins. The internal auditory vein accompanies the artery, and ends in the inferior petrosal sinus in the base of the skull. The veiii of the aqueduct of the cochlea joins the internal jugular ; and the rein of the aqueduct of the vestihtde opens into the superior petrosal sinus.3 C 2 INDEX. Tlie letter (o) refers to the origin, (c) to the course, and (d) to the distribution of a nervf or vessel whic.li is described in diflereut pages. Abdomen, cavity of, 471. surface of, 441. _Vbdominal aorta, 490, 033. liornia, 460. regions, 472. ring", external, 44S. internal, 4.}G, 463. Abducent nerve, 19, 47, 191. Vbductor. IScc Muscle. Aberrant duets of liver, 517. Accessorius. See Muscle. Accessory nerve of the obturator, o42, 631. ])uclic artery, 436, 060. spleens, 0I6. thyroid glands, 119. Acromial cutaneous nerves, 58, 268. Acromio-clavicular articulation, 273. thoracic artery, 258. .Adductor. Sec Muscle. Agger nasi, 138. Agminatcd glands, 505. Air-cells of the lung, 367. Ala cinerea, 240. of nose, 30. Alar ligaments of the knee, 700. thoracic artery, 258. .\lveolar plexus, 90. Ampulla), of the semicircular canals, 747. membranous, 752. Amygdaloid lobe of cerebellum, 235. nucleus, 221. tubercle, 221. Anal canal, 554. fascia, 424, 433. Anastomotic artery. Sec Artery. Anconeus muscle, 315. Angular artery, 28. convolution, 212. vein, 6, 28. Ankle-joint, 707. Annectant convolutions, 212. Annular ligament. See Ligament. Annular protuberance, 200. Annulus ovalis, s. Vieussenii, 348. . Ansa hypoglossi, 77. Vieussenii, 116. Anterior commissure, 227. Antihelix, 34. Antitragus, 34. Antitragus, muscle of, 35. Antrum mastoideum, 740. pylori, 500. of superior maxilla, 138. j Anus, 422, 438. I Aorta, 358. ) al)dominal, 490, 533. i arch of, 359. i ascending, 359. 1 descending thoracic, 369. ! Aortic opening in diaphragm, 539. orifice of heart, 354. plexus, 489. sinus, 359. ; Aperture, of the aorta, 354. ( for the femoral artery, 635. of the larynx, 128, 160. j of the pulmonary artery, 351. i of the thorax, 119. I Apertures, of the cava), 349. [ of the heart, 354. \ of the pulmonary veins, 352. \ A.poiieurosis, epicranial, 3. of external oblique, 447- over femoral artery, 622, intercostal, anterior, 263. posterior, 376. of internal oblique, 450. ■ lumbar, 392. palmar, 301. j perineal, deep, 433. i of tlic pharynx, 123. 1 of the soft palate, 130. ! temporal, 4. I over tibialis posticus, 673. of the transversalis muscle, 453. vertebra], 395. ' Appendages of the eye, 31. I Appendices epiploi'CcTe, 475, 483, 507. 1 Appendix auriculnc, 346, 348, 352. vermiformis, 476, 507. Aqueduct of the cochlea, 751. 'i of Fallopius, 737. j of Sylvius, 223, 229, 231. . \ of the vestibule, 747. ; Aqueous humour, 730. \ Arachnoid membrane of the brain, 183. i of the cord, 412.INDEX. 756 Aiantii, corpus, 351, 354. Arboi- vitse cere belli, 239. uterinus, 589. Arch, of aorta, 359. crural or femoral, deep, 458, 613. superficial, 458,612. of diaphragm, 530. palmar, deep, 309. superficial, 302. plantar, 685. of soft palate, 129. Arciform tibres, 196, 198. nuclei, 200. Ai-eola of the mamma, 250. Arm, dissection of, 275. Arnold's ganglion, 148. nerve. 111, 746. Avteria comes nervi ischiadici, 645. phrenici, 264, 363,534. pancreatica magna, 493. thyroidea ima, 120. Arteriae receptaculi, 20. Arterial duct, 358. Artery or Arteries: — acromio-thoracic, 258. anastomotic of brachial, 281. of femoral, 623. of profunda, 634, 659. of sciatic, 645. anguhir, 28, aorta, abdominal, 490, 533. thoracic, 359, 369. articular of knee, azygos, 654. inferior, 654. superior, 654. auricular, anterior, 36, 81. deep, 89. posterior, 6, 36, 81. auditor}'-, 186, 754. axillary, 256. basilai', 185. brachial, 279. brachio-cephalic, 360. bronchial, 368, 369. buccal, 89. of bulb, 436. calcaneal, internal, 680. capsular, inferior, 534. middle, 534. superior, 534. carotid, common, left, 118, 360. right, 75. external, 78. internal, 19, 103, 186. carpal, radial, anterior, 294. posterior, 319. ulnar, anterior, 297. posterior, 297- central of retina, 46, 731. cerebellar, anterior, 186. inferior, 185. superior, 186. cerebral, anterior, 187. middle, 187. posterior, 186, cervical, ascending. 71. deep, 71, 403. superficial, 394. Artery or Arteries :— cervical, transverse, 70, 394. choroid of brain, 185, 186, 187, 223. ciliary, anterior, 46, 729. long, 46, 729. posterior, 46, 729. circumflex, anterior, 259, 269. external, 627. iliac, deep, 460. superficial, 445,607» internal, 634, 649. posterior, 259, 269. coccygeal, 645. cochlear, 754. . coeliac, 493, 533. colic, left, 487. middle, 486. right, 486. communicating, anterior, 187. plantar, 685. posterior, 186. of posterior tibial^ 673. coronary, of heart, 346. of lips, 27. of stomach, 493. of coi-pus cavernosum, 436, 440, 583- cremasteric, 458, 460. crico-thyroid, 80, 165. cystic, 495. deep femoral, 618, 633. deferential, 528, 565. dental, anterior, 102. inferior,' 88, 92. posterior, 89. diaphragmatic, 534. digital, of foot, 678, 685, 686. of hand, 302, 309, 310. dorsal, of clitoris, 440, 446. of foot, 686, 694. of index finger, 319. of penis, 436, 446. scapular, 259, 274. of thumb, 319. of tongue, 97. epigastric, deep, 459. superficial, 444, 6C7- superior, 459. ethmoidal, anterior, 46, 145. posterior, 46, 145. facial, 27, 80. transverse, 28, 81. femoral, 617, 622. deep, 618, 633. frontal, 5, 46. gastric, 493, 502. gastro-duodenal, 494. epiploic, left, 493. right, 494. gluteal, 564, 643. ligemorrhoidal, inferior, 427. middle, 565. superior, 488, 567^ 585.. hepatic, 493, 515, 516. hyoid of lingual, 97. of thyroid, 80. hypogastric, 563.757 INDEX. Artery or Arteries:— iliac, common, 535. external, 535, internal, 562. ileo-colic, 486. ilio-lumbar, 563. incisor, 92. infraorbital, 89, 102. infrascapular, 259, 267. innominate, 360. intercostal, anterior, 265. aortic, anterior branches, 265, 370, 409, 459. posterior branches, 370, 404. superior, 71, 371. interosseous, of foot, 694. of forearm, 296. anterior, 299. postei'ior,319. of hand, 309, 319. intestinal, 485. intraspinal, 420. labial, inferior, 27. lachrymal, 33, 46. laryngeal, inferior, 71, 164. superior, 80,164. lingual, 79, 97. lumbar, 533, 543. anterior branches, 459, 543. posterior branches, 404. malleolar, 673, 694. mammary, external, 258. internal, 70, 264, 363, 459, 534. masseteric, 89. maxillary, internal, 88, 145. median, 299. mediastinal, 264, 370. medullary, of femur, 634. of fibula, 674. of humerus, 281. of radius, 299. of tibia, 673. of ulna, 299. meningeal, anterior, 15. of ascending pharyngeal, 16, 107. large, 15, 88. middle, 15, 16. of occipital, 16, 81. posterior, 16, 184. small, 16, 89. of vertebral, 16, 184. mental, 92. mesenteric, inferior, 487. superior, 485. metacarpal, radial, 319. ulnar, 297. metatarsal, 694. musculo-phrenic, 265, 534. myio-hyoid, 88. nasal, external, 47. internal, 46, 145. of internal maxillary, 145. lateral, 28. of septum narium, 28. of septum nasi, 145. Artery or Arteries :— naso-palathie, 145. obturator, 470, 565, 636. occipital, 6, 80, 403. esophageal, 370, 493. oplithalmic, 20, 45. orbital (of temporal), 81. ovarian, 534, 566, 592. palatine, inferior, 80. superior, 145. palpebral, 33, 46. panci'eatic, 493. pancreatico-duodenal, 485, 494, parotid, 81. perforating of femoral, 634, 659. of foot, 685, 695. of hand, 309. of internal mammary, 265. pericardial, 370. perineal, superficial, 430. transverse, 430. peroneal, 674. anterior, 674. petrosal, 16. pharyngeal, ascending, 107. phrenic, inferior, 534. superior, 264, 363, 534. plantar, external, 679. internal, 678. popliteal, 652. prei/ertebral, 107. profunda of arm, inferior, 281. sujierior, 281, 286. of palm, 302. of thigh, 618, 633. pterygoid, 89, 145. pterygo-palatine, 145. pubic, 459, 565. e)U(.lic, accessory, 436, 565. external, 444, 607, 618. internal, 427, 435, 440, 565, 645. pulmonary, 357, 367. ))yloric, 494. radial, 293, 309, 318. i-anine, 97. recurrent, interosseous, posterior, 318. palmar, 309. radial, 294. tibial, 694. _ ulnar, anterior, 296. posterior, 296. venal, 521, 533. sacral, lateral, 409, 564. middle, 533, 567. scapular, dorsal, 259, 274. posterior, 70, 274, 394. sciatic, 565, 645. sigmoid, 487. spermatic, 527, 534. spheno-pnlatine, 145. spinal, anterior, 184, 416. posterior, 184, 416. splenic, 493, 511. sternal, 264. sterno-mastoid of thyroid, 80.INDEX. 758 Arteiy or Arteries :— sterno-mastoid of occipital, Bl. stylo-mastoid, 81, 744. subclayiaii, left, 117, 360. right, 68. sublingual, 97. submental, 80. subscapular, 259. superficial cervical, 394. perineal, 430. volar, '294. supraacromial, 394. supraorbital, 5, 46. suprarenal, 522, 534. suprascapular, 55, 70, 274, 394, sural, 653. tarsal, 694. teiuporal, anterior, 5. deep, 89. middle, 81. posterior, 6. superficial, 5, 81. thoracic, alar, 258. long, 258. superior, 258. thy roid, inferior, 71, 120.. lowest, 120. superior, 79, 120. tibial, anterior, 692. posterior, 673. tonsillar, 80. transverse cervical, 70, 394, facial, 28, 81. perineal, 430. of pons, 185. tympanic, 89, 744. lilnar, 295, 302. lunbilical, 563. uterine, 566. vaginal, 565. vertebral, 70,_ 174, 184, 403. vesical, inferior, 565. superior, 565. vestibular, 754. Vidian, 145. volar, superficial, 294. Articular popliteal arteries, 654. nerves, 655. Articulation, acromio-clavicular, 27S, astragalo-calcaneau, 709, astragalo-navicular, 711. atlanto-axial, 178, 179. of bones of the tympanum, 742. ealcaneo-cuboid, 711. of carpal bones, 328. earpo-metacarpal, 330. of cervical vertebra), 174. ehondro-costal, 379. sternal, 379. coccygeal bones, 595. of costal cartilages, 379. eosto-vertebral, 377. crico-arytenoid, 169, thyroid, 169. of cuneiform bones, 714. cuneiform to cuboid, 714. cuneiform to navicular, 713. Articulation, femoro-tibial or knee, 697. of hip, 659. humero-cubital or elbow, 323 iiiterchondral, 379. of lower jaw, 85. lunibo-sacral, 595. of metacarpal bones, 330. metacarpo-phalangeal, 332„ metatarsal, 714. metatarso-phalangeal, 717. of navicular bone, 711, 713,. occipito-atlantal, 179. peroueo-tibial, 705. phalangeal of fingers, 333. of toes, 717- of ])ubic symphysis, 598. radio-carpal or Avrist, 326. idnar, inferior, 327. superior, 325. sacro-coccygeal, 595. iliac, 596. scapulo-lmmeral or shoulder 320 sterno-clavicular, 179. sternum, pieces of, 380. tarsal, transverse, 713. tarso-metatarsnl, 715. temporo-maxillary, 85. of the thumb, 330. tibio-tarsal or ankle, 707^ of vertebrte, 380. Arytcno-epiglottidean folds, 128, 163. muscles, 158. Ar\ teuoid cartilages, 167. glands, 132, 163. muscle, 158. Ascending aorta, 359. ^ cava, 362, 490, 536. cervical artery, 71. colon, 476. pharyngeal artery, 107. Association-fibres of brain, 233, 237- Atlanto-axial articulations, 178, 179. ligaments, 175, 177- Atriimi, of heart, 348. of middle meatus, 138. Attollens aurem, 2. Attraliens aurem, 2. Auditory artery, 186, 754. canal or meatus, external, 735„ nerve, 19,147, 191, 753. nuclei, 241. strife, 240. tubercle, 240. Auricle of the ear, 34. Auricles of the heart, 345. left, 352. right, 348. structure of, 355. Auricular appendages, 346, 348, 352. arteries, tiee Artery, vein, posterior, 6, 81. nerves. 8ce Nerve. Auriculo-temporal nerve, 8, 91. ventricular aperture, left, 352, 353, right, 349, 350.759 INDEX. Aiuiculo-yeiitricular groove, 34-3. rings, ooi. Axilb, 251. A-xillar\ artery, 2o6. -lands, 2o3. «heath, 2oG. vein, 259. Axis, of fochlea, 749. ooeliao, of artery, 493, 533. tlij'roid, of artery, 70. Azyg-os, arteiy, 654. iivulic muscle, 132. A'eius, 371, 544. IJaek, dissection of, 387. IJartholin'.s duct, 99. glands, 440. IJase of bladder, 554. brain, 203. the skull, arteries of, 15, VJ. dissection of, 12. nerves of, 16, 20. Basilar artery, 185. niernbrane, 750. plexus, 15. IJasilie A ein, 276. IJiceps. iSee Muscle. P.ile-ducts, 496, 504, 517. structure of, 506, 517- Eiventer cervicis muscle, 400. lUventral lobe, 235. Bladder, gall, 518. Tuinary, interior of, 576. ligaments of, 551,553,559. relations of, 554, 561. structure of, 575, 593. IJoclies, geniculate, 228, 229. Pacchionian, 9, 10. ([uadrigeminal, 229. suprai'enal, 522. ])ones of the ear, 741. ligaments of, 742. muscles of, 743. IJrachia of corpora quadrigemina, 229. Brachial aponeurosis, 278. artery, 279. ])lexus, 72, 259. veins, 282. Brachialis anticus, 283, 300. Brucliio-cephalic artery, 360. veins, 361. Brain, base of, 203. membranes of, 9, 12, 182. origin of nerves, 188. preservation of, 11. removal of, 11. vessels of, 184. Breast, 250. Broad ligament of uterus, 559. Bronchial arteries, 368, 369. glands, 373. tubes, 368. veins, 368, 370. Bronchi, S()(;, 368. Bronchia, 368. Brunncr's glaiuls, 505. Buccal artery, 89. Buccal nerves. See Nerve. Buccinator muscle, 26. Bulb, of corpus cavernosum, 582. spongiosum, 557, 583. olfactory, 206. of spina'l cord, 193. of the urethra, 557, 583. artery of, 436, 583. nerve of, 432. of the vestibule, 586. Bulbo-cavernosus muscle, 431, 439, Bulbous part of the urethra, 579. Buttock, dissection of, 637. Ccccum coli, 507. ! relations of, 475. Calamus scriptorius, 239. i Calcaneal arteries, 680. Cah-aneo-plantar nerve, 675. Calcar avis, 220. Calcariue tissure, 213. Calices of the ureter, 521. Callosal convolution, 214. sulcus, 216. t Calloso-marginal sulcus, 213. Canal, anal, 554. j auditory, external, 735. I of cochlea, 751. cnu-al, 613. Ilimter's, 622. hyaloid, 732. inguinal, 461. lachrymal, 51. of Nuck, 457. of Petit, 733. I of Schlemm, 724, semicircular, 747. membranous, 752. of spinal cord, 419. of the tensor tympani, 738. of Wirsung, 510. Canalis reuniens, 752. Canthus of ej'elids, 31. Capitula laryngis, 167. Capsular arteries. See Artery. ligament. See Ligament. Capsule, of crystalline lens, 733. external, of cerebrum, 225. of Glisson, 516. internal, of cerebrum, 225, 232. of kidney, 520. suprarenal, 522. of Tenon, 43, 722. Capiit ca>cum coli, 475, 507. gallinaginis, 578. Cardia of stomach, 473, 500. Cardiac nerves. See Nerve, plexus, 347, 364. veins, 347. Carotid arteries. See Artery. plexus, 20. Carpal arteries. See Arterj'. articulations, 328. Car])o-metacarpal articulation, 330. Cartilage, arytenoid, 167. cricoid, 166. cuneiform, 167.760 INDEX. Cartilage, of tlie ear, 35. septal of the nose, 136. thyroid, 166. Cartilages, of the nose, 30, 136. of Santorini, 167. of trachea, 170. Cartilagines quadrata;, 31. Cavtilago triticea, 168. Caruncula lachrj inalis, 33. CarunculiC myrtiformes, 438. Cauda equina, 41o. Caudate lobe, 614. nucleus, 225. Cava, inferior, 362, 490, 536. superior, 361. Cavernous body, 557, 581. artery of, 436, 440, 583. jdexus, 20. sinus, 14. Central artery of the retina, (o) 46, (d) 731. branches of cerebral arteries, 186, 187. ligament of cord, 413. lobe of cerebellum, 235. of cerebrum, 209, 212. pillar of cochlea, 749. l)oint of the perineum, 431. sulcus, 209. Centrum ovale cerebri, 215. Cephalic vein, 276. Cerebellar arteries. Sec Artery. Cerebellum, form of, 234. lobes of, 235. structure of, 237. Cerebral arteries. See Artery. Cerebro-spinal fluid, 183, 412. Cerebrum, convolutions of, 210. fibres of, 231. form of, 202. interior of, 215. lobes of, 209. Ceruminous glands, 736. Cervical arteries. See Artery, fascia, 53, 60. ganglion, inferior, 116, 121. middle, 115, 121. superior, 114. glands, 58. ner^'cs. Sec Nerve, plexus of nerves, deep branches, 74. superficial branches, 57, 59, 74. Cervicalis ascendens muscle, 398. Cervico-facial nerve, 38. Cervix uteri, 560, 589. vesica?, 555. Chamber of the aqueous, 730. Check ligaments, 178. Cheeks, 134. Chiasma of the optic nerves, 189. Choanal, 127. Chondro-costal articulations, 379. glossus muscle, 153. sternal articulations, 379. Chorda tympani nerve, 93, 98, 147, 746. Chordae tendinete, 351, 353. Willisii, 10. Choroid arteries of the brain, 185, 186, 187, 223. coat of the eve, 725. plexuses of the brain, 222, 223,240. veins of the eye, 729. brain, 223. Choroidal fissure, 221. Cilia, 31. Ciliary arteries, (o) 46, (d) 729. muscle, 727. part of retina, 731. processes of the choroid, 726. of the suspensory liga- ment, 732. nerves, 44, 730. veins, 729. Cingulum, 215, 233. Circle of Willis, 187. Circular sinus, 15. Circumflex artery. See XxicYy. i nerve, 261, 268, 269. I Circumvallate papilke, 150. i Claustrum, 226. Clava, 195, 200. Clavicular cutaneous nerves, 58, 249. Clitoris, 438, 586. Coccygeal artery, 645. muscle, 548. nerve, 409, 416, 568. Cochlea, 748. aqueduct of, 751. canal of, 751. nerve of, 753. vessels of, 754. Cochleariform process, 738. Caliac urtery or axis, 493. glands, 497, 540. plexus, 498. Colic arteries. See Artery. impression on liver, 514. Collateral eminence, 221. fibres of cerebrum, 233. fissure, 214. CoUes, fascia of, 429. Colon, 475, 506. structure of, 508. Columna nasi, 30. Columnar carne.v, 350, 353. Columns, of the rectum, 584. of the spinal cord, 418. of the vagina, 588. Comes nervi ischiadici artery, 645. phrenici artery, 264, 363, 534. Commissure, anterior of cerebrum, 227. of the cord, 419, optic, 189. posterior of cerebrum, 230. soft of cerebrum, 223, 225. of vulva, 438. Commissural fibres of the cerebellum, 237- of the cerebrum, 232. Common sinus, 752. Communicating arteries. See Artery. peroneal nerve, 655. ! tibial nerve, 655. Complexus muscle, 400. I Compressor naris muscle, 21. ! Conarium, 230.INDEX. 761 Concha, 34. Congenital hernia, 464 Coni vasculosi, 526. Conical papilla', loO. Conjoined tendon, 453. Conjunctiva, 33. Conoid ligament, 272. Constrictor. >Sce Muscle. Conus arteriosus, 350. niedullaris, 417. Convolutions of the brain, 207, 210. Coraco-acronnal ligament, 273. brachialis muscle, 279. clavicular ligament, 272. humeral ligament, 321. Cord, spermatic, 457. Cordiform tendon, 529. Cords of the abdominal wall, 467. vocal, 162. Cornea, 724. Cornicula laryngis, 167. Cornua of grej' crescent, 419. of lateral ventricle, 218, 219. Corona glandis, 557. radiata, 232. Coronary arteries. Sec Artery. ligament of the liver, 484. plexus of the stomach, 498. plexuses of tlie heart, 348, sinus, 346, 362. vein of the stomach, 496. Corpora albicantia, 205, 225, 228. Arantii, 351, 354. cavernosa, 557, 581. geniculata, 228, 229. mamillaria, 205. quadrigemina, 229. Corpus callosum, 206, 215. dentatum cerebelli, 237. medulla;, 199. fimbriatum, 561. Highniorianum, 524. luteum, 592. Morgagni, 523. spongiosum urethra;, 557, 583. striatum, 225. Corpuscles of IMalpighi, 511. Corrugator. See Muscle. Cortex, of cerebellum, 237. of cerebrum, 215. of tongue, 153. Corti, organ of, 751. Cortical branches of cerebral arteries, 186, 187. substance of the kidney, 520. Costo-clavicular ligament, 180. colic fold, 483. coracoid membrane, 255. transverse ligaments, 378, 379. Cotunnius, fluid of, 748. Cotyloid ligament, 662. Covered band of Keil, 215. Cowper's glands, 435, 579. Cranial nerves, 16, (o) 188. nuclei of, 241. Cremaster muscle, 451. Cremasteric artery, 460. fascia, 452. f Crest of the urethra, 578. \ vestibule, 746. ! Cribriform fascia, 607. Crico-ar3-tenoid articulation, 169. muscle, lateral, 159. posterior, 157» thyroid artery, 80. articulation, 169. membrane, 168. muscle, 157. ti-acheal ligament, 168. Cricoid cartilage, 166. Crista acustica, 752. Crucial ligaments, 701. Crura cerebelli, 238. cerebri, 203, 204. of the clitoris, 586. of the diaphragm, 530. of the fornix, 220, 228. of the penis, 582. Crural arch, 458, 612. deep, 458, 613. canal, 613. hernia, 468, 615. nerve, 542, 627. nng, 469, 614. septum, 469, 615. slieath, 469, 613. Crusta of cerebral peduncle, 204. Crypts of Lieberkiihn, 505, 509. of tongue, 155. Crystalline lens, 733. Cuneate funiculus and tubercle, 195, 200. lobule, 214. Cuneiform cartilages, 167. Cupola cochlea^ 749. (,'ut ve of the urethra, 556. (Jutaneous nerves of the abdomen, 443. of the arm, 277. of the back, 388. of the buttock, 637- of the face, 38. of the foot, back, 689. sole, 675. of the forearm, 289. of the hand, back, 290. palm, 300. of the head, 6. of the leg, back, 666. front, 689. of the neck, back, 388. front, 59. of tbe perineum, 427, 430. of the shoulder, 268. of the thigh, front, 609. of the thorax, 249. Cystic artery, 495. duct, 518. plexus of nerves, 498. vein, 496. Dartoid tissue, 429, 439, 445. Decussation of the pyramids, 194, 197. Deep cervical artery, (o) 71, (d) 403. crural arch, 458, 613. transverse muscle of perineum, 435, 440. Deferential artery, 528, 565.INDEX. 762 Deltoid ligament, 708. muscle, 268. Dental arteries. See Artery. nerves. See Nerve!^ Dentate body of cerebellum, 2,37. of medulla oblongatii, IW. fascia, 215, 221. Assure, 214. ligament, 413. Depressor. See INluscle. Desceiidens noni nerve, 77. Descending cava, 361. colon, 476. thoracic aorta, oi\[). Diaphragm, 377, 528. arteries of, 534. plexus of, 498. Digastric muscle, 76. nerve, 37. Digital arteries. See Arter}-. nerves. See Nerve, sheaths, 301. Dilator. See Muscle. Disc, interpubic, 599. intervertebral, 381. optic, 731. Dissection of the abdominal cavity, 471. Avail," 441. of the arm, 275. of the axilla, 251. of the back, 387. of the base of the skull, 12, of the brain, 182. of the buttock, 637. of the cardiac plexus, 364. of the carotid artery, internal. 104: of the carotid plexus, 19, of the cerebellum, 233. of the cerebrum, 202. of the cadiac axis, 492. of the corpus callosura, 206, 215. of the corpus striatum, 225, 232. of the cranial nerves in tlic neck, 107. of the crus cerebri, 204. of the deep vessels and nerves of the neck, 103. of the diaphragm, 528. of the ear, 33, 735. of the eye, 722. of the eyelids, 32. of the face, 20. . of the facial nerve, 36, 14G. of the fascia luiuborum, 391, of femoral hernia, 468, 612, of the foot, back, 688. sole, 675. of the foi-earm, l)ack, 312. front, 287. of the fourth ventricle, 23S. of the hand, back, 288. palm, 300. of the head, external parts, 1. internal parts, 9. of the heart, 344. of the hollow before the elbow, 290. Dissection of the hypogastric plexus, 489„. of inferior maxillary nerve, 87. of inguinal hernia, 460. of Jacobson's nerve, 744. of the labyrinth, 746. of the larynx, 156. cartilages, 165, muscles, 156. nerves, 163. ' of the left side of the neck, 116 of the leg, back, 665. front, 688. of the ligaments of atlas and axis, 174. of the ligaments of atlas and. occiput, 174. of the ligaments of axis and occiput, 177- of the ligameuts of clavicle and scapula, 272. of the ligaments of the hip-joint. 659.. ol' the ligaments of the jaw, 85. of the iigamcjits of the lower liuib, 697.- of the ligaments of pelvis, 595. of the ligaments of ribs, 377. of the ligaments of the upper- limb, 320.. of the liiiaments of the vertebrse^ 174, 380. ol' the lower limb, 604. (d ^Meckel's ganglion, 141. (d' the neck, 51. anterior tx'iangle, 60, left side, 116. posterior triangle, 54.. of the nose, 134. of the ophthalmic of the fifth nerve, 18, 40. of the orbit, 39, 100. of the otic ganglion, 148. ])arotid ghind, 29. of the pelvis, 545. side view, female,. 558, male, 548, 551. of the perineum, female, 437. male, 422. of the pharjTix, 121. of the pons, 200. of the popliteal space, 651. of the prevertebi-al muscles, 171.. of the pterygoid region, 82. of the sacral plexus, 567. of the shoulder, 266. of the soft palate, 129. of the solar plexus, 497. of the spinal cord, 410. of the subclavian artery, 66. of the submaxillary region, 93, of the superior ma.xillarv nerve^ 100. of the testis, 523. of the thigh, back, 650, 656. front, 604. of the thorax, 336.[ADEX. Dissection of the tongue, 149. of the triangular space- of the thigh, 61(i. of the tympanum, 737- vessels and nerves, l-ii. of the upper limb, 247. Dortal artery. >See Artery. ner^'es. iSrr Nerve. Douglas, fold of, 4do. Drum of the ear, 737. Duet, of Bartholin, 99. bile, common, 49G, ;504, '506. of cochlea, 751. cystic, 518. <>jaculatory, 573. i^alactophorous, 250. ]iei)atic, 496, 514, 517. lactiferous, 250. lymphatic, right, 62, 374. nasal, 51. pancreatic, 496, 504, 510. parotid, 29. of IMvinus, 99. seminal, common. 575, 579. of Steusen, 29. tboracic, 117, 373, 540. of Wharton, 99. Ductus arteriosus, 35S. comiuuuis choledochus,496,5(14, 5(k;. endolymi)haticus, 753. )Steiionis, 29. venosus, 515. Duodenal impression on liver, 514. Duodeno-iejunal flexure, 475. fossa, 484. Duodenum, characters of, 502. peritoneum of, 483. relations of, 475, 491, Dura mater, cranial, 9, 12. spinal, 410. nerves of, 16, 413. vessels of, 15, 41;^. Ear, external, 33, 735. internal, 746. middle, 737. Eighth nerve, (o) 191, (c) 19, 147, (d) 75;3. Ejaculator urin«, 431. Elbow-ioint, 323. Eleventh nerve, 19, 57, 108, 112, 192, 390. Einiuentia collatei-alis, 221. teres, 240. Encephalon, 182. Encysted hernia, 464, Endocardium, 357. Endolymph, 751, 752. Ependyiua, 217, 224, 240. Epididymis, 526. Epigastric artery. See Artery. fossa, 441. idexus, 497. region of the abdomen, 72. veins. /Sec Vein. Epiglottis, 167. Epoophoron, 592. Erector. iSec Muscle. Ethmoidal arteries, 4G, 145. cells, 137, 138. Eustachian tube, cartilaginous part, 127. osseous part, 740. valve, 349. EA'crsion of foot, 710. Extensor. iSer Muscle, j External cutaneous nerves. AVr- Xerve„ i IvvtraA'cntricular nucleus, 225. : Eyeball. 722. brows, 31. lashes. ;5]. lids. 31. nuiseles of. 22. nei'ves of. 33. structiu'e, 32. vessels, 33. Face, dissection of, 20. Eacial arterv, 27, 80. nerve, 19, 36, 146, 191. nucleus, 241. vein, 28, 80. Falciform border of saphenous opening, 611. ligament of the liver, 484. process, 597. Fallopiau tube, 561, 592. Fall(ij)ius, aqueduct of, 737. Falx ccrei)clli, 13. cerebri, 10. Fascia, anal, 424, 433. axiUary, 248. brachial, 278. bucco-pharyngeal, 26. 123. cers ical, deep, 53, 60. of Colics. 429.' cremasteric, 452. cribrif'onii. ()07. dentata, 215, 221. of the forearm, 290. iliac, 469, 539.' iufundibuliform, 457, 463. intercolunmar, 449. bita, 610, 651. (.f the leg, 668, 690. lumborum, 392. obturator, 547. palmar, 301. palpebral, 32. parotid, 28. jjclvic, 547. perineal, deep, 433. superficial, 429, 431L l)lautar, 676. propria, 615. of psoas, 539. of pyritormis, 547. of quadratus, 539. recto-vesical, 547, 550. of Scarpa, 443. spermatic, 449, 469. temporal, 4. transversalis, 456, 469, triangular, 449. Fasciculus teres, 240. Fauces, 128. I'emoral artely, 617, 622.INDEX. 764 Femoral hernia, 4G8, 61-5. ligament, 611. vein, G19, 621. Fenestra ovalis, 7o7. rotunda, 737. Fibres of the cerebrum, 231. of the cerebellum, 237. Fibro-cartilag-c. -SV'^' Interartieular. of heart, 3-5o. Fibrous coat of eye, 723. Fifth nerve, 18, 191. nuclei of, 211. ventricle of brain, 219. Filiform papilbv, loO. Fillet of tiie pons and mid-brain, 229, 232. Filum termiuale, 413. Fimbria of brain, 221. Fimbria) of the Fallopian tube, -392. First nerves, 16, 140, 189. Fissure, calcarine, 213. choroidal, 221. collateral. 214. dentate, 214. Glaserian, 738. liippncampal, 214. longitudinal, of cerebiaim, 207. of liver, 514. parieto-occipital, 209, 213. portal, ol4. of Sylvius, 208. transverse of cerebrum, 221. of liver, .314. Fissures, of the cerebrum, 207. of the cord, 417. of Santorini, 3o. Flexor. Sec ^Muscle. Flexure, duodeno-jejunal, 47o. hepatic, 476. sigmoid, 477. splenic, 476. Flocculus cei-ebelli, 236. Fold of Douglas, 455. Folia of cerebellum, 235. Folium cacuminis, 235. Foot, dorsum, 68S. sole, 675. Foramen ca}cum of medulla oblougata, 194. of tongue, 150. of Uom-o, 220. ovale, 348, 350, 352. quadratum, 530. for vena cava, 530. of Winslow, 483. Foramina Thebesii, 349. Forearm, dissection of, 287, 312. Formatio reticularis, 199, 201, 205. Fornix, 219, 228. conjunctivix}, 33. Fossa, duodeno-jejunal, 484. ischio-rectal, 424. navicular of the urethra, 579. of the vulva, 438. ovalis, 348. rhomboidalis, 239. Fossa) of abdominal Avail, 468. Fourchette, 438. Fourth nerve, 18, 40, 190. nucleus of, 241. Fourth ventricle, 239. Fovea, centralis, 731. hemielliptica, 747. hemispheric;a, 746. Fovea? of fourth ventricle, 240. Fraenulum clitoridis, 438. labii, 133. pudendi, .s. vulva), 438. Frauum epiglottidis, 155. of ileo-ca>cal valve, 508. lingmi), 134, 150_. pra'putii, 445, 558. Frontal arterv, 5, 46. lobe of cerebrum, 209, 210. nerve, 41. sinus, 138. vein, 6. Fundus of bladder, 554, of stomach, 473, 500. of uterus, 560^, 588. Fungiform i)apilbv, 150. Funiculus cuneatus, 195, 198, 200. I gracilis, 195, 198, 200. 1 of Rolando, 195, 198, 200. I Furrow of Rolando, 209. j Furrowed baud, 236, 237. ! Furrows of cerebrum, 207, 209, 210. of spinal cord, 417. Galactophorus ducts, 250. (lalcn, veins of, 223. (i all-bladder, 518. Ganglia, of glosso-pharyngeal, 109. lumbar, 543. sacral, 570. semilunar, 498. of spinal nerves, 414. thoracic, 374. of vagus, 110. Ganglioii, cervical, inferior, 116, 121. middle, 115, 121. superior, 114. Gasserian, 18. g:eniculate, 147. impar, 570. intervertebral, 414. jugular, 109. lenticular, 45. I Meckers,_142^ I ophthalmic, 45. i otic, 148. ; petrosal, 109. spheno-palatine, 142. spirale, 753. ■ submaxillarv, 98. thyroid, 115". I Gastric arteries, 493, 502. impression on liver, 513. veins, 496, 502. Gastro-colic omentum, 482. i duodenal artery, 494. j epiploic arteries, 493, 494. veins, 487, 496. j hepatic omentum, 482. I splenic omentum, 483. j Gastrocnemius muscle, 668. ' Gelatinous substance, 200.705 INDEX. Gemellus. Sec Muscle. Generative organs, 587. Geniculate bodies, 228, 229. ganglion, 147. Genio-glossus or Genio-hyo-glossus, 96, lo3. hyoid muscle, 9G. Genital organs, 557, 578, 585. Genito-crural nerve, 458, 542, 609. Genu, of corpus callosum, 206, 216. of internal capsulOj 2—0. of optic tract, 230. Gimbernat's ligament, 449, 613. Giraldes, organ of, 527. Gland of Havers, 663. lachrymal, 40. parotid, 28. pineal, 230. prostate, 555, 572. sublingual, 99. submaxillary, 63, 93, 99. thyroid, 63, 119._ Glands, agminated, 505. arytenoid, 132, 163. Bartholin's, 440. Brunner's, 505. ceruminous, 736. Cowpcr's, 435, 579. labial, 134. laryngeal, 163. Lieborkiihn's, 505, 509. lingual, 155. lymphatic, axillar}-, 253. bronchial, 373. cardiac, 373. cervical, superficial, 58. deep, 58, 63. cocliac, 497, 540. concatenate, 58. inguinal, 445, 607. intercostal, 373. lingual, 155. lumbar, 540. mastoid, 58. mediastinal, 373. -mesenteric, 487. meso-colic, 487. parotid, 28. pelvic, 571. popliteal, 655. sternal, 373. submaxillary, 63. suboccipital, 58. mammary, 250. Meibomian, 32. molar, 30. of Paccliioni, 9, 10. Peyer's, 505. solitary, 505, 509. tarsal, 32. of trachea, 171. Glandulse concatenata^, 58. odorifenx!, 445. Glans of the clitoris, 586. of the penis, 557. Glaserian fissure, 738. Glenoid ligament, 321. Glisson's capsule, 516. Globus major epididymis, 526. Globus minor epididymis, 526. Glosso-epiglottidean folds, 155. Glosso-pharvngeal nerve, 19, 99, 109, 155, 192. nucleus, 241. Glottis, 160. Gluteal artery, 564, 643. nerve, inferior, 570, 645. superior, 570, 629, 643. muscles. Sec Muscle. Graafian vesicles, 591. Gracilis muscle, 629. Grey commissure of the cord, 419. crescent of the cord, 419. substance of medulla oblongata, 199. of the third ventricle, 225. tubercle of Itolando, 195, 200. Gullet, 120, 372. Gustatory nerve. Sec Lingual. Gyri breves, 212. of cerebrum, 207, 210, 212. longi, 212. Gyrus fornicatus, 214. Iljcmorrhoidal arteries. Sec Artery. nerve, inferior, 427. plexus of nerves, 489, 571. veins, 566, 585. Ham, 651. Hamulus lamina; spiralis, 750. Hand, dissection of, 300. Havers, gland of, 663. Head, movements of, 179. Heart, 344. constiiuonts, 345. dissection of, 348. ])Osition, 344. structure of, 354. Helicotrema, 750. Helix, 34. fossa of, 34. muscles of, 35. Hemispheres of cerebellum, 234. of cerebrum. 207. Hepatic artery, 493, 515, 516. ducts, 496, 514, 517. flexure of colon, 476. plexus, 498. veins, 517, 537. Hernia, crural or femoral, 468, 612. inguinal, external, 461. internal, 465. imibilical, 467. Hesselbach's triangle, 465. Hiatus cochleae, 750. semilunaris, 137. Highmore, body of, 524. Hilum of kidney, 519. of lung,'341. of ovary, 591. of spleen, 510. of suprarenal body, 522. Hip-joint, 659. Hippocampal fissure, 214. Hippocampus major, 221. minor, 220. Hollow before elbow, 291.INDEX. .Hunter's canal, G22. Hyaloid canal, 73'i. ineinbraiie, 732. Hymen, 438. Jlyo-cpiglottidean ligament, 170. glossal membrane, lol. glossus lauscle, 95, 153. Hyoid artery. IScc Artery. bone, 165. Hypochondriac region of abdomen, 472. Hy pogastric arter}^, 563. plexus of nerves, 489. region of tixe abdomen, 472. Hypoglossal nerve, 19, 77, 99, 112, 155, 193. nucleus, 193, 241. Ilco-CiTccal valve, 508. colic artery, 486. valve, 508. Ileum, relations of, 475. structure of, 502. Iliac arteries. /SVy" Artery, fascia, 469, 539. part of fascia lata, Gil. region of the abdomen, 472. veins. Sec Vein. lUacus muscle, 538, 635. llio-costalis, 398. femoral ligament, 660. hypogastric nerve, 444, 456, 541, 638. inguinal nerve, 444, 456, 542, 609. lumbar artery, 563. ligament, 597. vein, 536, 564. psoas, 539. tibial band, 610. Incisor branch of nerve, 92. Incus, 741. Indicator muscle, 317. Infantile bernia, 464. luframarginal convolution, 212. InframaxilUiry nerve, 39, 59. Infraorbital artery, 89, 102. nerves. Sec Nerve, plexus, 38, 102. vein, 102. Infrascapular artery, 259, 267. Infraspinatus muscle, 270. Infrasternal fossa, 441. _ Infratrochleiir nerve, 45. Infuudibula of the lung, 368. of the ureter, 521. lufundibuliform fascia, 457, 463. Infundibulum of the brain, 205. of the heart, 350. of the nose, 138. Inguinal canal, 461. fossie, 468. furrow, 441. glands, 445, 607. hernia, external, 461. internal, 465. region of the abdomen, 472. Innominate arterj^, 360. veins, 361. Inscriptiones tendiueeo, 454. Insula, 209, 212. Interarticular fibro-cartilage of the jaw, 86. of the knee, 702. sterno - clavic- ular, 181. of the wrist, 328. ligament. See Ligament, j Interclavicular ligament, 180. i Intercolunmar fascia and fibres, 448. I Intercostal aponeuroses, 263, 376. arteries. See Artery, muscles, 262, 376, 409. nerves, 265, 376, 409, 455. \'eins. Sec Vein, lutcrcosto-humeral nerve, 249, 277- Intermediate process, 419. Intermuscular sejjta of the arm, 285. of tlie foot, 676. of the leg, 668, 690. of the thigh, 627. Internal cutaneous nerve. See Nerve. Interosseous art(?ries. See Artery. ligaments or membrane. See Ligament, nmscles. See Muscle, nerves. Sec Nerve. Interpeduncular space, 204. Interpubic disc, 599. Interspinal muscles, 407. Intertransverse muscles, 172, 407. I Intervertebral disc or substance, 381. ! _ ganglia, 414. Intestinal arteries, 485. j canal, divisions, 473, 475. j structure of, 502, 506. i Intestine, large, 475, 506. small, 475, 502. Intraparietal sulcus, 211. ' Intraspinal vessels, 420. ! Intraventricular nucleus, 225. Intumescentia ganglioformis, 753. Inversion of foot, 710. Iris, 727. nerves of, 729. structure of, 728. vessels of, 729. Iscliio-cavernosus muscle, 431, 439. rectal fossa, 424(. Island of Keil, 209, 212. Isthmus cerebri, 229. faucium, 128. of the thyroid body, 119. of the uterus, 589. Vieussenii, 348. \ Iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculmn, 231. I Jacobson's nerve, (o), 109, (d), 745. I Jejunum, relations of, 475. structure of, 502. \ Joiut, ankle, 707. ij elbow, 323. I 2,'rcat toe, 715. iiip, 659. knee, 697. lower jaw, 85. shoulder, 320.767 INDEX. .Joint, thumb, 330. wrist, 326. Jugular ganglion, 109, 110. veins. See Vein. Kerato-crieoid muscle, 1-58. Kerkring, valves of, -503. Kidney, ol9. relations of, 478. structure of, o20. vessels of, o20. Ivnee-joint, 697. J^abia pudendi externa .v. niiijora, -138. interna .v. minora, 438. Labial arterv, inferior, 27- glands, 134. nerves, 92, 102. Xabyrinth, 746. lining of, 748. membranous, 7'31. osseous, 746. Xachrymal artery, 33, 46. canals, ol. gland, 40. nerve, 41. papilla, 31. point, 31, '50. sac, .51. Xacteals, 506. Lactiferous ducts, 250. Lacuna) of the uretlira, 579. Lamina cinerea, 206. quadrigemina, 229. spiralis cochleiR, 749. supraclioroidea, 726. Laminco of cerebellum, 234, 237. of the lens, 733. Large intestine, relations of, 475. structure and form of, 506. Laryngeal arteries, 164. nerves. Sec Nerve, pouch, 161. Larynx, 156. apertures of, 128, 160. curtilages of, 165. interior of, 160. ligaments of, 168. muscles of, 156. nerves of, 164. ventricle of, 161. vessels of, 164. Lateral column of the cord, 418. cutaneous nerves, 249, 443. nucleus, 199. recess of the pharynx, 126. sinus, 14. tract, 194, 198. ventricles, 217. Latissimus dorsi, 261, 391. Leg, dissection of the back, 665. front, 688. Lens of the eye, 733. Lenticular ganglion, 45. nucleus, 225, Levator. See Muscle. ] Lieberkiihn's crypts, 505, 509. Lieno-renal ligament, 478, 481. Ligament or Ligaments :— acromio-claviculai-, 273. alar of the knee, 700. annular, anterior of ankle, 690. external of ankle, 690. internal of ankle, 675. of radius, 325. of stapes, 742. anterior of wrist, 311, posterior of wrist, 313, 319. cuitcrior, of ankle-joint, 707. of elbow-joint, 324. of knee-joint, 699. of wrist-joint, 326. of carpus, 329. arclied, of diaphragm, 530. of arterial duct, 358. :istragalo-calcanean, 709. iistragalo-uavicular, 711. :/.tlanto-axial, accessory, 179. anterior, 175. posterior, 177. transverse, 178. of bladder, 551, 553, 559. "•alcaueo-cuboid, 711. navicular, 711. • 'apsular of tlic hip, 659. of tlie knee, 6;)8. of tlie shoulder, 320. of Iho lliumb, 330. • ■arpal, dorsal, 328. palmar, 32S. oarpo-metacarpal, 331. ^•I'utral, of the cord, 413. <'hcck, 178. chondro-stenml, 379. of tiie coccyx, 595. «;ommon, anterior of vertebrte, 174, I 380. posterior, 175, 381. j conoid, 272. coraco-acromial, 273. clavicular, 272. I humeral, 321. j '.'oronary of liver, 484. co.sto-central, 378. clavicular, ISO. coracoid, 255. transverse, middle, 379. jjosterior, 378. superior, 378. vertebral, 377. xiphoid, 379. <=otyloid, 662. orico-arytenoid, 169. thyroid, 168. tracheal, 168. crucial, 701. of cuneiform bones, 714. deltoid, 708. dentate, 413. falciform of liver, 484. femoral, 611. of Gimbernat, 449, 613. glenoid, 321. Iiyo-epiglottidean, 170.768 Ligament or Ligaments:— ilio-femoral, 660. lumbar, u97. of incus, 742. interarticular of the hip, 662. of the ribs, 378. of sacrum and coec3'x, 596. interclavicular, 180. interosseous of astragalus and oscaleis, 710. of cai-pus, 328, 332. of cuneiform bones, 714. of metacarpal bones, 330. of metatarsal bones, 116. radio-uluar, 32o. naviculo-cuboid, 714. tibio-pei-oneal, 706. interspinous, 384. intertransverse, 385. lateral, of ankle-joint, 708. of carpus, 329. of elbow, 323. _ lumbo-sacral, 595. phalangeal of foot, 717. phalangeal of hand, 333. of jaw, 85, 86. of "knee, 698. of liver, 484. of wrist, 326. of larjnx, 168. lieno-renal, 478, 481. of liver, 484. lumbo-sacral, 595. of lung, 338. of malleus, 742. metacarpal, 310, 330, 332. metatarsal, 686, 714, 715. mucous, 700. naviculo-cuboid, 714. cuneiform, 713. oblique, 326. occipito-atlantal, anterior, 175. posterior, 176. occipito-axial, 177. odontoid, 178. orbicular of the radius, 325- of the ovary, 561, 591. palpebral, 32. of the patella, 626, 699, peroneo-tibial, 706. of the pinna, 35. plantar, long, 712. short, 712. of Poupart, 449, 612. posterior of ankle-joint, 707- of carpus, 329. of elbow, 324. of knee, 699. of wrist, 327. pterygo-maxillary, 26, 125, pubic, anterior, 598. superior, 598. pubo-femoral, 660. recto-uterine, 559. of rectum, 551. rhomboid, 180. round, of the hip, 662, ^ Ligament or Ligaments :— • round, of the liver, 515. of the uterus, 458, 560, 590. sacro-coccygeal, 596. sacro-iliac, 596. sacro-sciatic, large, 597, 650. small, 597, 650. of sacrum, 595. of scapula, 273. of stapes, 742. stellate, 378. sterno-clavicular, 180. stylo-hyoid, 103. maxillary, 60, 87. subpubic, 598. suprascapular, 273. supraspinous, 384. suspensory of axis, 178. of clitoris, 586. of lens, 732. of liver, 484. of penis, 445. of uterus, 458, 560, 5C0. tarsal of eyelids, 32. tarso-metatarsal, 715. thyro-arytenoid, 162, 163. epiglottidean, 170. hyoid, 168. transverse of the atlas, 178. of the fingers, 301. of the hip, 662. of the knee, 703. of metacarpus, 310. of metatarsus, 686. of the toes, 677. trapezoid, 272. triangular of the urethra, 433, 440. of the uterus, 559, 560. vaginal, 302. vesico-uterine, 559. j Ligamenta subflava, 384. I suspensoria of mamma, 250. Ligamentum arcuatum, 530, 598. denticulatum, 413. latum pulmonis, 338. nuchte, 390. patellae, 626, 699. pectinatum iridis, 724. spirale, 751. teres of hip, 662. of liver, 515. of uterus, 458, 560, 590. Ligula, 239. Limb, lower, 604. upper, 247. Limbus cochlea?, 750. Linea alba, 448. semilunaris, 447, 455. splendens, 412. Lineae transversae, 447, 455. Lingual artery, 79, 97. glands, 155. nerve, 92, 97, 155. veins, 97. Lingnales muscles, 154. Lingula, 238. Lips, 134. Liquor Cotunnii, 748.769 INDEX. Lithotoni)^, parts cut, 436. Liver, 512. ligaments of, 481. lobes of, 513. relations of, 477. structure of, 515. vessels of, 516. Lobes of the cerebellum, 235. of the cerebrum, 209. of the liver, 513. of the lungs, 341. of the prostate, 572. of the testis, 525. Lobule, cuneate, 214. of ear, 34. occipital, 214. orbital, 209, 211. oval, or pjiracentral, 214. parietal, 211. quadrate, 214. Lobules of the liver, 516. Locus cit'ruleus, 240. Longissimus dorsi, 398. Longitudinal fibres of cerebrum, 203. fissure of the cerebrum, 207. fissure of the liver, 514. sinus, inferior, 13. superior, 10. Longus colli muscle, 171. Lower, tubercle of, 348. Lumbar aponeurosis, 392. arteries, 404, 459, 543. ganglia, 543. glands, 540. nerves. See Nerve, plexus, 541. region of the abdomen, 472. veins, 404, 537, 544. Lumbo-sacral articulation, 595. cord or nerve, 541. Lumbricales, of the foot, 682. of the hand, 305. Lung, 366. physical characters of, 366. relations of, 340. roots of, 342. structure of, 367. vessels and nerves of, 368. Lunula, 351. Lymphatic duct, right, 66, 374. glands. See Glands. Lymphatics of the arm, 277. of the axilla, 253. of the bladder, 577. of the intestine, 487, 506, 509. of the kidney, 521. of the liver, 517. of the lungs, 368. of the mamma, 251. of the neck, 58. of the pelvis, 571. of the penis, 583. of the popliteal space, 655. of the prostate, 573. of the rectum, 585. of the spleen, 511. of the stomach, 502. of the suprarenal body, 523. Lymphatics of the testicle, 527. of the thorax, 373. of the tongue, 155. I of the tonsil, 132. of the uterus, 590. Lyra, 220. Macula acustica, 752. lutea, 731. Malar nerves, 38. Malleolar arteries, 673, 694. Malleus, 74L Malpighian corpuscles of spleen, 511. of kidney, 520. ]\ramilla. See Nipple. jNIamilUc of the kidney, 520. Mamma, 250. i Mammary arterv, external, 258. internal, 70, 264, 363, 459, 534. gland, 250. ! Marginal convolution, 214. Masseter muscle, 82. ]\Iasseteric artery, 89. nerve, 91. i Mastoid antrum, 740. i cells, 740. j lymphatic glands, 58. Maxillary artery, internal, 88, 145. nerves. See Nerve, veins. See Vein. Meatus auditorius externus, 735. nerves of, 91, 736. vessels of, 81, 736. urinarius, 438, 556, 579. Meatuses of the nose, 137. \ jNleckcl's ganglion, 142. Median-basilic vein, 276. cephalic vein, 276. nerve, 261, 282, 297, 303. vein, 276, 289. Mediastinal arteries, 264, 370. Mediastinum of thorax, 338. testis, 524. j Medulla oblongata, 193. spinalis, 416. 1 Medullary arteries. See Artery. I centre of cerebellum, 237- of cerebrum, 215. portion of tongue, 154. velum, inferior, 236. superior, 238. Meibomian glands, 32. j Membrana basillnris, 750. flaccida, 740. pupillaris, 728. tympam, 739. secundaria, 740. Membrane, costo-coracoid, 255. crico-thyroid, 168. of Descemet, 724. hyaloid, 732. hyo-glossal, 151. obturator, 599. pituitary, 139. of the pupil, 728. of Reissner, 751. Schneiderian, 139. 3 DINDEX. 770 Membrane, thyro-hyoid, 168. Membranes of the brain, 9, 12, 182. of spinal cord, 410. Membranous labyrinth, 751. part of the cochlea, 751. part of the urethra, 556, 579. Meningeal arteries. See Artery. nerves, 16, 413. Meninges, 182, 410. Mental nerve, 92. Mesencephalon, 229. Mesenteric artery, inferior, 487. superior, 485. glands, 487. plexuses, 489. vein, inferior, 488. suj)erior, 487. Mesentery, 484. Meso-cfecum, 476, 483. colon, left, 483. right,_483. sigmoid, 483. transverse, 479, 483. rectum, 483, 552, 553. Metacarpal arteries, 297, 319. articulations, 330. Metatarsal artery, 694. Mid-brain, 229. Mitral valve, 353. Modiolus of the cochlea, 749. Monro, foramen of, 220. Molar glands, 30. Mens Veneris, 441. Monticulus, 235. Morgagni, body of, 523. columns of, 584. Mouth, cavity of 133. Mucous ligament, 700. Multifidus spina; muscle, 405. Muscle or Musculus :— abductor hailucis, 677. indicis, 310. minimi digiti manus, 308. pedis, 678. pollicis, 306. accessorius pedis, 682. ad sacro-lumbalem, 398. adductor brevis, 631. hollueis obliquus, 683. transversus, 683. longus, 630. magnus, 634, 659, 699. pollicis obliquus, 308. transversus, 308. anconeus, 315. of antitragus, 35. aryteno-epiiilottidean, 158. arytenoid, 158. attollens aurem, 2. attrahens aurem, 2. azygos uvulae, 132. biceps of arm, 278, 300, 321. of thigh, 656, 699. biventer cervicis, 400. brachialis anticus, 283, 300. buccinator, 25. bulbo-cavernosus, 431, 439. cervicalis ascendens, 398. jVtuscle or Musculus : — chondro-giossus, 153. ciliary, 727. circumflexus palati, 131. coccygeus, 548. complexus, 400. compressor naris, 21. constrictor inferior, 123. isthmi faucium, 131. medius, 124. superior, 125. urethras, 434. coraco-brachialis, 279. corrugator cutis ani, 425. supercilii, 23. cremaster, 451. crico-arytenoid, lateral, 159. posterior, 157. thyroid, 157. crureus, 626. deltoid, 268. depressor alas nasi, 22. anguli oris, 25. epiglottidis, 160. labii inferioris, 25. detrusor urina), 575. diaphragm, 377, 528. digastric, 76. dilatator naris, 22. pupillse, 728. ejaculator urinse, 431. erector clitoridis, 439. penis, 431. spinse, 397. extensor carpi radialis brevior, 313. longior, 313. ulnaris, 315. brevis digitorum pedis, 695. pollicis, 316. communis digitorum, 314. indicis, 317. longus digitorum pedis, 691. pollicis, 317. minimi digiti, 314. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 316. primiinternodiipollicis, 316. proprius hailucis, 691. secundi internodii pollici 317. flexor accessorius, 682. brevis minimi digiti manlis, 308. brevis minimi digiti pedis, 683. carpi radialis, 292, 311. ulnaris, 293. digitorum brevis pedis, 677. • longus pedis, 672,681. profundus, 298, 305. sublimis, 294, 305. hailucis brevis, 683. longus, 671, 682. perforans, 298, 672. perforatus, 294, 677. pollicis brevis, 307, 320. longus, 299, 305. gastrocnemius, 668. gemellus inferior, 647. superior, 647.INDEX. Muscle or jVIuscuIus: — genio-glossus, or genio-liyo-glossus, 96, 153. hyoid, 96. gluteus maximus, 638. medius, 642. minimus, 643. gracilis, 629. of helix, 35. tvo-glossus, 95, 153. iliacus, 538, 635. ilio-costalis, 398. incisive, 26. indicator, 317. infraspinatus, 270. intercostals, 262, 376, 409. interosseous of foot, 686. of hand, 310. interspinales, 407. intertransversales, 172, 407. ischio-cavernosus, 431,439. kerato-cricoid, 158. labii proprius, 26. latissimus dorsi, 261, 391. levator auguli oris, 25. scapula), 266, 393. ani, 426, 549. glandulfB thyroideas, 119. labii inferioris, 27. superioris, 24. alieque nasi, 22. menti, 27. palati, 130. palpebni), 33, 42. levatores costarum, 409. linguales, 154. longissimus dorsi, 398. longus colli, 171. lumbricales of foot, 682. of hand, 805. masseter, 82. multifidus spina), 405. mylo-hj^oid, 93. naso-labial, 26. obliquus abdominis externus, 447. internus, 450. capitis inferior, 406. supei'ior, 406. oculi, inferior, 49. superior, 42. obturator externus, 636, 649. internus, 594, 648. occipito-frontalis, 2. omo-hyoid, 64. 266, 393. opponens minimi diffiti, 308. pollicis, 306. orbicularis oris, 26. palpebrarum, 23. orbitalis, 50. palato-glossus, 131, 152. pharyngeus, 126, 131. palmaris brevis, 301. longus, 293. pectineus, 630. pectoralis major, 254, 255. minor, 255, 267. peroneus brevis, 697. longus, 687, 696. Muscle or Musculus :— peroneus tertius, 692. perpendicular of tongue, 154. pharyngeo-glossus, 153. ])lantaris, 669. platysma myoides, 52, 59. popiiteus, 670, 699. pronator quadratus, 299. radii teres, 292. psoas magnus, 537, 635. parvus, 538. pterygoid, external, 84. internal, 85. pyramidalis abdominis, 455. nasi, 21. pyriformis, 594, 644. quadratus fcmoris, 649. lumborum, 539. quadriceps extensor cruris, 624. rectus abdominis, 454. capitis anticus major, 172. minor, 172. lateralis, 113. posticus major, 406. minor, 406. femoris, 625, 644. oculi externus, 47. inferior, 47. internus, 47. superior, 42. retrahens aurem, 2. rhomboideus major, 266, 393. minor, 266, 393. risorius, 25. rotatores dorsi, 407. .sacro-lumbalis, 398. salpingo-pharyngeus, 131. sartorius, 620. scaleni, 66. semimembranosus, 658, 699. semispinalis colli, 405. dorsi, 405. semitendinosus, 656. serratus magnus, 262, 267. posticus inferior, 395. superior, 395. soleus, 669. sphincter ani externus, 426. internus, 426. pupilla), 728. vaginic, 439. spinalis dorsi, 398. splenius capitis, 396. colli, 396. stapedius, 743. sterno-cleido-mastoid, 64. hyoid, 65. thyroid, 65. stylo-glossus, 96, 152. hyoid, 77. pharyngeus, 103,126. subclavius, 256. subcostal, 375. subcrureus, 626. subscapularis, 267. supinator radii brevis, 317. longus, 313. suj^raspinatus, 273. 3 D 2772 INDEX Muscle or Musculus - temporal, 4, 83. tensor fasciae lai ve, 624. palati, 131. tarsi, 49. tympaiii, 743. vaginae femoris, 624. teres major, 271. minor, 271. thyro-arytenoid, L59. epigiottidean, 160. hyoid, 65. tibialis anticus, 691. posticus, 672, 686. traehelo-mastoid, 398. of tragus, 35. transversalis abdominis, 453. colli, 398. linguiB, 154. transverse of auricle, 35. transverso-spiniiles, 404. transversus pedis, 683. pevinei, 432, 439. alter, 432. profundus, 435, 440. trapezius, 389. triangularis sterni, 264. triceps of arm, 284. vastus externus, 625. internus, 626. zygomatic us major, 25. minor, 25. Musculi papillares, 350, 353. pectinati, 348, 352. Musculo-cutaneous nerve. See Nerve, phrenic artery, 265, 534. spiral nerve, 261, 277, 286. Mylo-hyoid artery, 88. muscle, 93. nerve, 92. Nares, 30, 126. Nasal arteries. )S/?c Artery, cartilages, 30. duct, 51. fossae, 135. nerves. See Nerve. Naso-palatine artery, 145. nerva, 143. Nates, of brain, 229. Neck, anterior triangle of, 60. posterior, 54. dissection of, 51. Nerve or Nerves :— abducent, (o) 191, (e) 19, (d) 47. accessory, obturator, 542, 631. spinal, (o) 192, (c) 19, 57, 75, 112, (d) 112, 390. acromial cutaneous, 58, 268. Arnold's, 111, 746. articular of popliteal, 655. auditory, (o) 191, (c) 19,147, (d) 753. auricular anterior, 8, 91. great, 8, 57. inferior, 91. posterior, 8, 36, 37. Nerve or Nerves :— auricular superior, 8. of vagus, 111, 746. aurieulo-temporal, 8, 91. buccal of facial, 38. of inferior maxillary, 91. calcaneo-plantar, 675. cardiac inferior, (o) 116, 121, (d) 365. middle, (o) 116, 121, (d) 365. superior, (o) 115, 121, (d) 347, 365. of vagus, 112, 363, 364, 365. cavernoiis, 571. cervical, anterior branches, 72, 113, 173. posterior branches, 173,388, 401. branch of facial, 59. superficial, 57, 59. cervico-facial, 38. chorda tympani, 93,98, 147, 746. ciliary, Tong, 44, 730. short, 45, 730. ciremnflex, (o) 261, (d) 268, 269. clavicular, cutaneous, 58, 249. coccygeal, 409, 416, 568. cochlear, 753. communicating, to descendens uoni, 74. fibular or peroneal, 655. tibial, 655. crural, anterior, 542, 627. cutaneous, anterior, 249, 444. external, of arm. See Musculo- cutaneous, of leg, 655, 666. of musculo- spiral, 277, 286, 289. of thigh, 542. 609, 638. internal, of arm, large, 261, 277, 283, 289. of ann, small, 261, 277, 283. of musculo- spiral, 277, 286. of thigh, 610, 628, 668. lateral, 249, 443. middle, of thigb, 609, 628. palmar, 297, 298, 300. plantar, 675, 680. radial, 289. dental, anterior, 102. inferior, 92. middle, 102. posterior, 102. descendens noni, 77. to digastric, 37. digital, dorsal of toes, 689. of median, 303. palmar, 303.773 INDEX. Nerve or Nerves :- - digital, plantar, 680, GSl. of radial, 289. of ulnar, 290, 308. dorsal, anterior branches, 265,370,4:09. [409. ; posterior branches, 3S8, 402, | of clitoris, 440, 446. last, 444, 456, 543, 637. of penis, 428, 436, 446. of ulnar, 289, 297. facial, (o) 191, (c) 19, 146, (d) 36. frontal, 41. genito-crural, 458, 542, 609. glosso-pharyngeal, (o) 192, ((;) 19, 99, ; 109, (d) 109, 155. : gluteal, inferior, 570, 645. j superior, 570, 629, (Wo. j gustatory. See Lingual. I haomorrhoidal, inferior, 427. } superior, 489. j of fourth sacral, 568. hypoglossal, (o) 193, (c) 19, 77, 112, (d) 99, 155. ilio-hypogastric, 444, 456, 541, 638. j inguinal, 444, 456, 542, 609. incisor, 92. inframaxilhirv of facial, 39, 5i). infraorbital of facial, 38. infraorbital of fifth, 38, 102. infratroclilear, 45. intercostal, 265, 376, 409, 455. intercosto-humeral, 249, 277. interosseous, anterior, 298, 299. posterior, 318. of Jacobson, 109, 745. labial, inferior, 92. superior, 102. lachrymal, 41. of Lancisi, 216. laryngeal, e.\ternal. 111. inferior or recurrent, (o) 112, 363, (d) 112, 164. superior, (o't 111, (d) 164. lingual, 92, 97, 155. lumbar, anterior branches, 540. posterior branches, 388, 403, 638. lumbo-sacral, 541. malar of facial, 38. of superior maxilhuy, 50. masseteric, 91. maxillary, inferioi*, 18, 90. ' superior, 18, 101. median, (o) 261, (c) 282, 297, (d) 297, i 303. meningeal, 16, 413. mental, 92. musculo-cutaneous of arm, (o) 261, (c) 277, 283, (d) 283, 289. musculo-cutaneous of leg, 689, 696. musculo-spiral, (o) 261, (d) 277, 286. ; mylo-hj^oid, 92. nasal, (o) 40, (d) 43, 145. lateral, 102. of Meckel's ganglion, 143, 144. naso-palatine, 143. obturator, (o) 542, (d) 631, 655. or Nerves :— obturator, accessory, 542, 631. to obturator internus, 570, 647. occipital, great, 8, 383, 401. small, 8, 57. oculomotor, (o) 190, (c) 17, (d) 43, 47. oesophageal, 112, 364. olfactory, (o) 189, (c) 16, (d) 140, ophthalmic, 18, 40. optic, 16, 47, 189, 730. orbital, (o) 102, (d) 50. of Meckel's ganglion, 144. palatine, external, 144. large, 144. small, 144. palmar, cutaneous, 300. palpebral, 7, 8, 33, 41, 102. parotid, 91. patellar, 610, 629. perforating cutaneous, 428, 570, 63S. perineal, 427, 432. of fourth sacral, 428, 568. superficial, 430, 439. peroneal, 655. communicating, 655. petrosal, deep, large, 144. small, 745. superficial, external, 147. large, 20, 144, 147. small, 20, 147, 149, 745. pharyngeal, 109, 111, 115, 144. phrenic, 74, 362. plantar, external, 680, 686. internal, 680. pneurao-gastric, (o) 192, (c) 19, 110, 363, (d) 111, 363, 499. popliteal, external, 655. internal, 654. prostatic, 571. ptervgoid, external, 91. internal, 93, 149. pudendal, inferior, (o) 647, (d) 431, 439. pudic, (o) 570, (c) 647, (d) 427, 440. pulmonary, 364, 369. to pyriformis, 570. to quadratus femoris, 570, 647. radial, 289, 298. recurrent, articular, 696. laryngeal, (o) 112,363, (d) 112, 164. meningeal, 19. to rhomboids, 73, 394. sacral, anterior branches, 567. posterior branches, 408, 638, 642. saphenous, external, 655, 666, 689. internal, 610, 628, 666, 689. to scaleni, 72, 75. sciatic, great, 569, 647, 658. small, 570, 638, 646, 658, 668. to serratus, 73, 261. spermatic, 489. spheno-palatine, 102, 144. spinal, 413.INDEX. 774 Nerve or Nerves:— spinal, accessor}^, (o) 192, (c) 19, 57, 75, 112, (d) 112, 390. splanchnic, large, 375, 499. small, 375, 499. smallest, 375, 499. splenic, 498. to stapedius, 149. sternal cutaneous, 58, 249. to stylo-hyoid, 37. to subclavius, 74. suboccipital, anterior branch, 113. posterior branch, 401. subscapular, 261. supraacronnal, 58, 268. supraclavicular, 58. supraniaxillary of facial, 38. supraorbital, 6, 41. suprascapular, 74, 274, 394. supratrochlear, 7, 41. sympathetic, in abdomen, 489, 497, 543. in head, 20. in neck, 114, 121. in pelvis, 570. in thorax, 364, 374. temporal, deep, 91. of facial, 8, 38. superficial, 8, 38. of superior maxillary, (o) 50, (d) 8. temporo-facial, 38. malar, (o) 102, (tl) 50. to tensor palati, 149. tympani, 149. vasina? femoris, 629. to teres major, 261. minor, 269. thoracic, anterior, 261. posterior, 73, 261. thyroid, 116. tibial, anterior, 689, 696. communicating-, 655. posterior, 674. tonsillar, 110. trifacial or trigeminal, 18, 191. trochlear, (o) 190, (c) 18, (d) 40. tympanic, (o) 109, (d) 745. ulnar, (o) 261, (c) 283, 297, (d) 290, 297, 303, 310. uterine, 571. vaginal, 571. vagus, (o) 192, (c) 19, 110, 363, (d) 111, 363, 499. vesical, 571. vestibular, 753. Vidian, 144. of Wrisberg, 261, 277, 283. Nervi molles, 115. Ninth nerve, 19, 109, 155, 192. Nipple of the breast, 247, 250, 251. Nodule of cerebellum, 236. Nose, cartilages of, 30. cavity of, 135. external, 30. meatuses of, 137. muscles of, 21. nerves and vessels of, 140, 143,145. Nose, regions of, 139. Nostril, 30. Notch of Eivinus, 740. Nuck, canal of, 457. Nuclei arciformes, 200. of cranial nerves, 240. of medulla oblongata, 199, 200. of optic thalamus, 228. i pontis, 201. Nucleus, amygdaloid, 221. caudate, 225. of funiculus cuneatus, 200. gracilis, 200. lateral, 199. of lens, 733. lenticular, 225. olivary, 199. superior, 201. red, of tegmentum, 205. j Nymphse, 438. I Oblique ligament, 325. I muscles. iSec Muscle, i vein of heart, 346. ! Obturator artery, 565, 636. fascia, 547. I membrane, 599. muscles. See Muscle, nerve, 542, 631, 655. Occipital artery, (o) 80, (c) 403, (d) 6. lobe of cerebrum, 209,|212. i lobule, 214. nerves. See Nerve, sinus, 14. veins, 6, 81, 404. Occipito-atlantal articulations, 179. ligaments, 175, 176. axial ligaments, 177. frontalis muscle, 2. temporal convolutions, 214. Oculomotor nerve, 17, 43, 47, 190. Odontoid ligaments, 178. Oesophagus, relations of, 120, 372. structure of, 136,372. Q'^soiiliageal arteries, 370, 493. j groove in liver, 513. nerves, 112, 364. I opening of diaphragm, 530. I Olfactory bulb, 206. I cleft, 135. lobe, 203, 206. nerves, 16, 140, 189. region of nose, 139. stria?, 207. sulcus, 206, 211. tract, 207. tubercle, 207. Olivary body, 195, 199. nucleus, 199. superior, 202. peduncle, 199. Omental tuberosity of liver, 513. of pancreas, 492. Omentum, gastro-colic or great, 482. gastro-hepatic or small, 482. gastro-splenic, 483. Omo-hyoid muscle, 64, 266, 393. Operculum, 210.775 INDEX. Ophthalmic ai'tery, 20, 45. ganglion, 45. nerve, 18, 40. veins, 47. Opponens. See Muscle. Opposition of thumb, 331. Optic commissure, 189. disc, 731. nerve, 16, 47, 189, 230, 730. Optic papilla, 731. thalamus, 227. tract, 189, 230. Ora serrata, 731. Orbicular ligament of the radius, 325. Orbicularis oris, 26. palpebrarum, 23. Orbit, 39, 100. muscles of, 42, 47. nerves, 40. periosteum of, 39. vessels, 45. Orbital branch of artery, 81. branches of nerve, 50, 102, 144. lobule, 209, 211. sulcus, 211. Orbitalis muscle, 50. Organ of Corti, 751. of Giraldes, 527. of Rosenmiiller, 592. Orifice, of the urethra, 438, 556, 579. of the uterus, 588. of the vagina, 438. Orifices, auriculo-ventricular, 350, 353. of the stomach, 473, 500. Ossicles of the tympanum, 741. Os tinea), 588. uteri externum, 588. Otic ganglion, 147. Otoliths, 752. Outlet of the pelvis, 423, 548. Oval lobule, 214. Ovarian artery, 534, 566, 592. plexus of nerves, 489, 571. vein, 537, 592. Ovary, 561, 591. " appendage to, 592. vessels of, 534, 537,566, 592. Ovisacs, 591. Pacchionian bodies, 9, 10. Palate (soft), 129. Palatine arteries. Sec Artery. nerves. See Nerve. Palato-glossus, 131, 152. Palato-pharyngeus, 126, 131. Palm of the hand, 300. Palmar arch, deep, 309. superficial, 302. cutaneous nerves, 300. fascia, 301. Palmaris. See JNIuscle. Palpebrfe,31. Palpebral arteries, 33, 46. fascia or ligament, 32. fissure, 31. nerves, 33. veins, 28, 33. Pampiniform plexus, 527, 592. Pancreas, 509. relations of, 492. structure of, 509. Pancreatic arteries, 493. duct, 496, 504, 510. veins, 496. Pancreatico-duodenal arteries, 485, 494. Papilla lachrymalis, 31. optica, 731. PapillfB of the kidney, 520. of the tongue, 150. Paracentral lobule, 214. Paradidymis, 527. Parallel sulcus, 212, Parietal lobe, 209, 211. lobules, 211. Parieto-occipital fissure, 209, 213 Parotid arteries, 30. fascia, 28. gland, 28. lymphatic glands, 2S nerves, 30, 91. Parovarium, 592. Passage, anal, 554. Patellar nerve, 610, 629. plexus, 610. Pecten of lleil, 232. Pectineus muscle, 630. Peotoi'alis. Sec Muscle. Peduncle of the cerebt;ilum, inferior, 195,238. middle, 238. superior, 205, 238. of the cerebrum, 203, 204. of the corpus callosum, 203, 216. olivarv, 199. Peduncular tibri's, 231. Pelvis, dissection of, 545. muscles and ligaments of, 594. of ureter, 521. vessels and nerves of, 562. viscera of, female, 558, 585. male, 551, 571. Pelvic cavity, 545. diaphraii,-m, 550. fascia, 547. plexus, 570. Penis, 557. integument of, 445. structure of, 581. vessels of, 446, 582. Perforated space, anterior, 206. posterior, 205. Perforating arteries. See Artery. cutaneous nerve, 428, 570, 638. Pericardium, 342, Perilymph, 748, Perineum, female, 437, male, 422, Perineal artery, superficial, 430, transverse, 430, fascia, deep, 433, superficial, 429, 439, nerves, 427, 430, 432, 439, Periosteum of the orbit, 39. Peritoneal ])rolongation on the cord, 457. Peritoneum, 479.INDEX. 776 Peritoneum of female pelvis, 558. of male pelvis, 552. Peroneal artery, 674. nerve, 655, Peroneus. See Muscle. Peroneo-tibial articulations, 705. Perpendicular fissure, 213. muscle of tongue, 154. Pes hippocampi, 221. Petit, canal of, 733. Petrosal ganglion, 109. nerves. See Nerve, sinuses, 15. Pej^er's glands, 505. Pharynx, 123. interior of, 126. muscles of, 123. Pharynx, openings of, 126. Pharyngeal, ascending, artery, 107. nerves, 109, 111, 115, 144. tonsil, 132. veins, 107. Pharyngeo-glossus muscle, 153. Phrenic arteries. See Artery, nerve, 74, 362. plexus, 498. Pia mater of the brain, 183. of the cord, 412. Pigmentary layer of retina, 730. Pillars of the abdominal ring, 448. of diaphragm, 530. of the fornix. 228. of the iris, 724. of the soft palate, 126, 129. Pineal body, 230. stria, 228, 231. Pinna, or auricle of the ear, 34. Pituitary body, 206. membrane, 139. Plantar aponeurosis or fascia, 676. arch of artery, 685. arteries, 678. ligament. See Ligament, nerves, 680, 686. Plantaris muscle, 669. Platysma myoides muscle, 52, 59. Pleura, 338. Pleuro-colic fold, 483. Plexus of nerves:— aortic, 489. brachial, 72, 259. cardiac, deep, 365. superficial, 347. carotid, 20. cavernous, 20. cervical, 57, 74. coeliac, 498. coronary of heart, 348. of stomach, 498. cystic, 498. diaphragmatic, 498. epigastric, 497. gula.-, 364. hsemorrhoidal, 489, 571. hepatic, 498. hypogastric, 489. intraorbital, 38, 102. lumbar, 541. Plexus of nerves:— mesenteric, inferior, 489. superior, 489. ovarian, 489, 571. pancreatico-duodenal, 498. patellar, 610. pelvic, 570. pharyngeal, 111. phrenic, 498. prostatic, 571. pulmonary, 364. pyloric, 498. renal, 498. sacral, 568. solar, 497. spermatic, 489. splenic, 498. suprarenal, 498. tj'mpanic, 744. uterine, 571. vesical, 571. vertebral, 116, 174. Plexus of veins :— alveolar, 90. basilar, 15. choroid, 222, 223, 240. dorsal, of hand, 288. luemorrhoidal, 566, 585. ovarian, 537, 592. pampiniform, 527, 592. prostatic, 566, 573, litei'vgoid, 89. spermatic, 527. uterine, 566, 590. vaginal, 566, 588. vesical, 566. Plica fimbriata, 150. semilunaris, 33. Pneumo-gastric nerve, 19, 110, 111, 192, 363, 499. Pomum Adami, 52, 166. Pons Varolii, 200. Popliteal artery, 652. glands, 655. nerves, 654. space, 651. vein, 654. Popliteus muscle, 670, 699. Poi-tal fissure, 514. vein, 495, 516. Portio dura, 191. intermedia, 191. mollis, 191. Poms opticus, 731. Posterior column of cord, 418. commissure, 230. pyramid, 195. triangle of the neck, 54. Postcentral sulcus, 211. Poupart's ligament, 449, 612. Pouch, larj^ngeal, 161. recto-uterine, 559. recto-vesical, 552. vesico-uterine, 559. Pra^central sulcus, 210. Prceputium clitoridis, 438. Prepuce, 445. Prevertebral muscles, 171.INDEX. Processus vaginalis, 464. Profunda artery. See Artery. Promontory, 737- Pronator. See Muscle. Prostate gland, 572. relations, 555. sheath of, 550. structure, 573. Prostatic part of urethra, 556, 578. plexus, of nerves, 571. of veins, 566, 573. sinus, 579. Psoas magnus muscle, 537, 635. Psoas parvus muscle, 538. Pterygoid arteries, 89, 145. muscles. See Muscle, nerves. /SV6'jServe. plexus of veins, 89. Pterygo-niaxillary ligament, 26, 125. region, 82. palatine; artery, 145. Pubes, 441. Pubic part of fascia lata, 611. Pubic region of the abdomen, 472. symphysis, 598. Pubo-femoral ligament, 660. Pudendal, inferior, nerve, (o) 647, (d) 431, 439. Pudendum, 585. Pudic arteries. Sec Artery. nerve, 427, 440, 570, 647. Pulmonary arter}^, 357, 367. nerves, 364, 369. orifice and valve, 351. veins, 362, 368. Pulvinar, 228. Puncta laehrymalia, 31, 50. Pupil, 728. Pylorus, 500. Pyloric artery, 494. orifice, 473, 500. plexus, 498. vein, 496. Pyramid, anterior^ 194, 197. decussation of, 197. of the cerebellum, 236. posterior, 195. of the thyroid body, 119. of the tympanum, 739. Pyramidal masses of kidney, 520. tract, 197, 201, 205, 225, 232. Pyramidalis. See Muscle. Pyramids of Malpigbi, 520. Pyriformis muscle, 594. fascia of, 547. Quadrate lobe of cerebellum, 235. of liver, 514. lobule of cerebrum, 214. Quadratus. aS'<:'<? Muscle. Quadriceps extensor cruris, 624. Quadrigeminal bodies, 229. Radial artery, 293, 309, 318. nerve, 289, 2.8. veins, 294. Radial veins, cutaneous, 288. Radio-carpal articulation, 326. Radio-ulnar articulations, 325, 327. Ranine artery, 97. vein, 97. Raj^he of the corpus callosum, 216. of the medulla oblongata, 199. of the palate, 134. of the perineum, 422. of the pons, 202. of the tongue, 150. Receptaculum chyli, 540. Recto-uterine ligaments, 559. pouch,559. vaginal pouch, 559. vesical fascia, 547, 550. pouch, 552. Rectus. See Muscle. Rectum, relations of, in the female, 559. ia the male, 553. structui'e, 584. Recurrent arteries. See Artery. nerve. See Xerve. Red nucleus, 205. Regions, of abdomen, 472. Reil, covered band of, 215, 233. island of. 209, 212. pecten of, 232. sulci of, 210. Reissner, membrane of, 751. I Renal artery, 521, 533. impression on liver, 514. plexus, 498. vein, 521, 537. Respiratory glottis, 161. region of nose, 139. Restiform body, 195, 198. Rete testis, 526. Reticular formation, 199, 201, 205. Retina, 730. Retinacula of fascia lata, 611. of ileo-cajcal valve, 508. Retrahens aurem, 2. Rhomboid ligament, 180. Rhoniboidei muscles, 266, 393. Rima glottidis, 160. of the vulva, 438. Ring, abdominal, external, 448. j internal, 456, 463. I crural or femoral, 469, 614. j Risorius muscle, 25. Rivinus, ducts of, 99. notch of, 740. Rolando, funiculus of, 195, 198. furrow of, 209. tubercle of, 195, 200. Roof-nucleus of cerebellum, 238. Root of the lung, 342. Roots of the nerves, 414. Rosenmliller, organ of, 592. Rostrum of corpus callosum, 206, 216. Rotatores doi-si, 407. Round ligament. See Ligament. Saccule of the ear, 752. Sacculus laryngis, 161. Saccus endolymphaticus, 753.INDEX. 778 Sacral arteries. Sec Artery. ' AungUa, 570. nerves. See Nerve, plexus, 568. Sacro-coccygeal articulation, 595. iliac articulation, 596. lumbalis muscle, 398. sciatic ligaments, 597, 650. Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle, 131. Santorini, cartilages of, 167. Saphenous nerves. Sec Nerve. i opening, 611. veins. SecYein. Sartorius muscle, 620. Scala tympani, 751. vestibuli, 751. Scaleni muscles, 66. Scapular arteries. See Arterj'. ligaments, 273. muscles, 266, 270. Scapulo-humeral articulation, 320. Scarpa, fascia of, 443. ti'iangle of, 616. Schnciderian membrane, 139. Sciatic artery, 565, 645. Sciatic nerves. See Nerve. Sclerotic coat of the eye, 723. Scrotum, 445. \ Second nerve, 16, 47, 189. Secondary membrane of the tvmpanum, 740. Semicircular canals, 747. \ membranous, 752. : Semilunar cartilages, 702. i fold of Douglas, 455. ! ganglia, 498. Semi-bulbs of vestibule, 586. Semimembranosus muscle, 658, 699. Seminal ducts, 575, 579. Seminiferous tubes, 525, Semispinalis muscle, 405, Semitendinosus muscle, 656. i Septum cochleie, 749, i crurale, 469, 615. | intermuscular, of the arm, 285, of the leg, 668, 690, j of the sole, 676. of the thigh, 627. i lucidum, 219. narium, 30. nasi, 136. pectiniforme, 582, 586, ! posterior median of spinal cord, 418. posterior intermediate, 420. posticum of arachnoid, 412. scroti, 445, of the tongue, 151. Serratus, See Muscle. Seventh nerve, 19, 36, 146, 191. nucleus of, 241. Sheath, axillarv, 256. crural,"469, 613. of the fingers, 301. of the prostate, 550. of the rectus, 454. of the toes, 677. Shoulder-joint, 320. Sigmoid artery, 487. flexure of the colon, 477. Sinus, of the aorta, 359. basilar, 15. of tlic bulb, 579. cavernous, 14. circular, 15. . circularis iridis, 724. coronary, 346, 362. frontal, 138. intercavernous, 15. of the kidney, 519. lateral, 14. longitudinal, inferior, 13. superior, 10. occipital, 14. petrosal, inferior, 15. superior, 15. pocularis, 579. prostatic, 579. sphenoidal, 135. straight, 13. of Valsalva, 351, 354, 359. venosus, 348. Sixth nerve, 19, 47, 191. nucleus of, 241. Slender lobe of cerebellum, 235. Small intestine, 475, 502. omentum, 482. Socia parotidis, 29, Saanmering's enumeration of the cranial nerves, 189. Soft commissure, 223, 225. palate, 129, muscles of, 130. Solar plexus, 497. Sole of the foot, dissection of, 675. Soleus muscle, 669, Solitary glands, 505, 509, Spermatic artery, 527, 534, cord, 457. fascia, 449, 463. plexus of nerves, 489. veins, 527, 537. Sphenoidal sinus, 135. Spheno-ethmoidal recess, 138, palatine artery, 145. ganglion, 142. nerves, 102, 144. Sphincter, See Muscle, Spigelian lobe, 514. Spinal accessory nerve, 19, 57, 75, 112, 192, 390. nucleus, 192. arteries, 184, 416. column, movements of, 385. cord, 416, membranes of, 410. structure of, 418, vessels of, 416. nerves, 413. posterior branches of, 401, roots of, 414. veins, 416, 421. Spinalis dorsi muscle, 398. Spiral ganglion, 753. groove, 750. ligament, 751.INDEX. Spiral tube of the cochlea, 749. Splanchnic nerves. Sec Nei've. Spleen, 510. relations of, 478. structure of, 510. Splenculi, 510. Splenic arteiy, 493, 51L flexure of colon, 476. plexus of nerves, 498. vein, 496. Splenium of corpus callosum, 216. Splenius muscle, 396. Spongy bones, 137. part of the urethra, 556, 579. Stapedius muscle, 743. Strt])es bone, 742. Stellate ligament, 378. Stensen's duct, 29. Sternal arteries, 264. cutaneous nerves, 58. Stcrao-clavicular articulation, 179. cleido-mastoid muscle, 64. hyoid muscle, 65. mastoid arter}-. See Artery. thyroid muscle, 65. Stomach, form and divisions of, 500. relations of, 473. structure of, 500. Straight sinus, 13. Striate body, 225. Sirite longitudinales of corpus callosum, 216. Stylo-glossus muscle, 96, 152. hyoid ligament, 103. muscle, 77. nerve, 37. mastoid artery, 81. maxillary ligament, 60, 87. pharyngeus muscle, 103, 126. Subarachnoid space of the brain, 183. of the cord, 412. Subclavian artery, left, 117, 360. right, 68. vein, 71. Subclavius muscle,-256. Subcostal muscles, 375. Subcrurcus, 626. Subdural space, 9, 183, 412. Sublingual artery, 97. gland, 99. Submaxillary ganglion, 98. gland, 63, 93, 99. lymphatic glands, 63. region, 93. Submental artery, 80. Suboccipital lymphatic glands, 58. nerve. See Nerve, triangle, 407. Subpeduncular lobe, 236. Subperitoneal fat, 457, 469, 615. Subpubic ligament, 598. Subscapular artery, 259. nerves, 261. Subscapularis muscle, 267. Substantia ferruginea, 240. gelatinosa, 200, 419. nigra, 205. Sulci of cerebrum, 207, 210. of spinal cord, 418. Sulcus spiralis, 750. Superficial cervical artery, 394. fascia of the abdomen, 443. of the perineum, 429. of the thigh, 6U5, 607. volar artery, 294. Supinator. See Muscle. Supraacromial nerves, 268. Supraclavicular fossa, 52. nerves, 58. Supramarginal convolution, 211. Supramaxillary nerves, 38. j Supraorbital artery, 5, 46. nerve, 6, 41. Suprarenal capsule, 522. impression on liver, 512. plexus, 498. I Suprascapular arter}-, 56, 70, 274, 394. ligament, 273, nerve, 74, 274, 394. vein, 71, 274, 394. Supraspinatus muscle, 273. Suprasternal fossa, 52. Supratrochlear nerve, 7, 41. Suspensor}' ligament. See Ligament. Sylvius, aqueduct of, 231. fissure of, 208. valley of, 206. Sympathetic nerve. See Nerve. Symphysis pubis, 598. Tsenia hippocampi, 220, 221. semicircularis, 226. Tarsal artery, 694. articulations, 709. fibrous plates, 32. glands, 32. ligaments of eyelids, 32. Tarso-metatarsal articulations, 715. Tarsus of eyelid, 32. Teeth, 134. Tegmen tympani, 739. Tegmentum, 205. Temporal aponeurosis, 4. arteries. See Artery. fascia, 4. muscle, 4, 83. nerves. Sec Nerve. veins. See Vein. Tempore-facial nerve, 38. malar nerve, 50, 102. maxillary articulation, 85. vein, 29. sphenoidal lobe, 209, 212. Tendo Achillis, 669. palpebrarum, 32. Tendon, infrapatellar, 620, 699. suprapatellar, 626. Tensor. See Muscle. Tenth nerve, 19, 109, 110, 192, 363, 499 Tentorium cerebelli, 12. Teres muscles, 271. Testes, 523. of brain, 229. Thebesian foramina, 349. valve, 349. Thigh, dissection of, back, 650, 656.INDEX. 780 Thigh, dissection of, front, 604. Third nerve, 17, 43, 47, 190. nucleus of, 241. venti-icle, 223. Thoracic arteries. Sec Artery, duct, 117, 373, 540. ganglia, 374. nerves. See Xerve. Thorax, boundaries of, 336. parietes of, 262, 375. upper aperture of, 119. Thymus body, 340. Thyro-arytenoid ligaments, 162, 163. muscle, 159. epiglottidean ligament, 170. muscle, 160. hyoid membrane, 168. muscle, 65. Thyroid arteries. Sec Artery, axis, 70. body, 63, 119. cartilage, 16o. veins. Sec Vein. Tibial arteries. See Artery, nerves. See Nerve, veins. See Vehi. Tibialis. Sec Muscle. Tibio-tarsal articulation, 707. Tongue, 149. muscles of, 152. nerves of, 155. structure of, 151. vessels of, 97. Tonsil, 132. Tonsillar artery, 80. nerves, 110. Torcular Herophili, 10, 14. TrabeculiB carnea;, 350. Trabecular structure of penis, 582, 583. of spleen, 511. Trachea, relations of, 120, 366. structure of, 170. Tracheal nerves, 112, 171. Trachelo-mastoid muscle, 398. Tract, direct cerebellar, 198. lateral, 194, 198. olfactory, 207. optic, 189, 230. pyramidal, 197, 201, 205, 225, 232 Tragus, 34. muscle of, 35. Transverse arteries of ])ons, 185. carpal articulation, 329. cervical artery, 70, 394. colon, 476. facial artery, 28, 81. fissure of the cerebrum, 221. of the liver, 514. ligament. See Ligament, muscle. See Muscle, perineal artery, 430. tarsal articulation, 713. Transversalis or transversus muscle. See Muscle, fascia, 456, 469. Transverso-s[dnales muscles, 404, Trapezius muscle, 389. Trapezoid ligament, 272. Triangle of Hesselbach, 465. of the neck, anterior, uO. posterior, 54. of Scarpa, 616. suboccipitiil, 407. Triangular fascia, 449. fibro-cartilage of vvrist, 328. ligament of the urethra, 433, 440. space of the thigh, 616. surface of the bladder, 577. Triangularis sterni muscle, 261. Triceps extensor cubiti, 284. Tricuspid valve, 351. Trifacial or trigeminal nerve, 18, 191. Trigonum vesica^, 577- Trochlea, 43. Trochlear nerve, 18, 40, 190. Tube, of the cochlea, 749. Eustachian, 127, 740. Fallopian, 501, 592. Tuber cinereum, 205. valvulae, 236. Tubercle, amy<;daloid, 221. of epiglottis, 168. of Lower, 348. olfactory, 207- of optic thalamus, 228. of Kolando, 195, 200. Tuberculum cinereum, 195. cuneatum, 195, 200. Tubuli recti, 525. seminiferi, 525. Tunica albuginea testis, 524. propria of spleen, 511. Euyschiana, 727. vaginalis, 523. oculi, 722. vasculosa testis, 525. Turbinate bones, 137. Twelfth cranial nerve, 19, 77,112, 155, 193. dorsal nerve, 444, 456, 543, 637. Tympanic artery, 89, 744. membrane, 739. nerve, 109, 745. Tympanum, 737. arteries of, 744. lining membrane of, 743. nerves of, 744. ossicles of, 741. Ulnar artery, 295, 302. nerve, 261, 283, 289, 297, 303, 310. veins, 295. cutaneous, 288. Umbilical hernia, 467. region of the abdomen, 472. vein, 515. Umbilicus, 441, 448. Uncinate convolution, 214. Uncus, 214. Ureter, 521, 555, 561, 577. Urethra, female, orifice of, 438. relations of, 561. structure of, 593. male, interior of, 578. relations of, 556. structure of, 581.INDEX. 781 Uterine arteries, ~)G6, 590. plexus of norves, 571. veins and sinuses, 566, 590. Uterus, 588. interior of, 589. ligaments of, 559, 560. relations of, 559. stj-ucture of, 589. Utricle of the ear, 752. of the urethra, 579. Uvea iridis, 728. Uvula cerebelli, 236. palati, 129. vesicjc, 577. Vagina, relations, 561. structure and form, 587. Vaginal arteries, 565, 566. ligaments, 302. nerves, 571. veins, 566, 588. Vagus nerve, 19, 110, 192, 363, 4-99. nucleus, 241. A'allecula of cerebellum, 234. Sylvii, 206. Valsalva, sinuses of, 351, 354, 359. A'alve, aortic, 354. Eustacliian, 349. ileo-colic, 508. mitral, 353. pulmonary, 351. of Thebesius, 349. tricuspid, 351. of Vieussens, 238. Valves of Kerkring, 503. Valvula) conniventes, 503. Vas aberrans, 527. deferens, 458, 527, 556, 574. Vasa aberrantia, 281. brevia, 493, 496. efterentia testis, 526. recta testis, 525. A^orticosa, 729. Vastus externus muscle, 62.>. internus muscle, 626. Vein or A^eina ;— alveolar, 90, 146. angular, 6, 28. ascending lumbar, 544. auditory, 754. auricular, posterior, 6, 81. axillary, 259. azvgos, large, 371, 544. small, 371, 544. superior, left, 371. basilic, 276. brachial, 282. brachio-cephalic, 301. bronchial, 368, 370. cardiac, 347. cava, inferior, 362, 490, 536. superior, 360. cephalic, 276. cerebellar, 188. cerebral, 188. choroid, 223. ciliary, anterior, 730. posterior, 729, Vein or Veins :— circumflex iliac, 445, 460, 536, 608. coronary of the heart, 347. of the stomach, 496. of the corpus cavernosum, 583. striatum, 223. cystic, 496. deep cervical, 70, 404. diaphragmatic, inferior, 537. dorsal, of the penis, 446, 566. dorsal spinal, 404. emissary, 6. emulgent, 521, 537. epigasti-ic, deep, 460, 536. superficial, 445, 608. facial, 28, 80. deep, 28, 90. femoral, 619, 624. frontal, 6. of Galen, 223. gastro-epiploic, left, 496. right, 487. lr<emorrhoidal, 566, 585. hepatic, 517, 537. iliac, common, 536. external, 536. internal, 560. ilio-luinbar, 536, 504. infraorbital, 102. innominate, 361. intercostal, 370. highest, 372. superior, 371. interlobular, 516. intralobular, 517. intraspinal, 421. jugular, anterior-, 63. external, 53. internal, left, 118. right, 76, 106. laryngeal, 165. lingual, 97. lonnitiulinal, of the spine, 421. lumbar. 404, 544. manuuary, internal, 265. maxillary, internal, 89. anterior, internal, 28, 90. median, of the forearm, 276, 289. basilic, 276. cephalic, 276. mesenteric, inferior, 488. superior, 487. oblique, of heart, 346. occipital, 6, 81, 404. ophthalmic, 47. ovarian, 537, 592. palpebral, 28. pancreatic, 496. perineal, superficial, 430. pharyngeal, 107. phrenic, inferior, 537. popliteal, 654. portal, 495, 515, 516. profunda of the thigh, 634. pterygoid plexus, 89. pubic, 536. pudic, external, 445, 608, 619. internal, 427, 436, 566.INDEX. 782 Vein or Veins •— pulmonary, 362, 368. pyloric, 496. radial, 294. cutaneous, 288. ranine, 97. renal, 521, 537. sacral, middle, 536, 566. saphenous, external, 666, 688. internal, 608, 666, 688. spermatic, 527, 537. • spinal, posterior, 421. of the sjnnal cord, 416. splenic, 496, 511. subclavian, 71. sublingual, 97. sublobular, 517. supraorbital, 6. suprarenal, 523, 537. suprascapular, 71, 274, 394. temporal, 6, 82. temporo-maxillary, 29, thyroid, inferior, 71, 120. middle, 76. superior, 80. tibial, anterior, 695. posterior, 674. transverse cervical, 71, 394. ulnar, 295. cutaneous, 288. umbilical, 515. uterine, 566. vaginal, 566. vertebral, 70, 174, 4C4. anterior, 70. of the vertebra;, 421. vesical, 566. Velum interpositum, 222. pendulum palati, 129. Vena cava, inferior, 362, 490, 536. superior, 361. porta}, 495, 515, 516. Venae cavre hepatica?, 517. Venous arch of the foot, 688. Ventricles of the brain, 217. fifth, 219. fourth, 239. lateral, 217. third, 223. of the heart, 346. left, 353. right, 350. structure of, 356. of the larynx, 161. Vermiform appendix, 476, 507. Venniform processes, 234, 236, 238. Vermis, 234. Vertebral aponeurosis, 395. artery, (o) 70, (c) 174,403, (d) 184. plexus, 116, 174. veins, 70, 174, 404. Verumontanum, 578. Vesica urinaria. See Bladder. Vesical arteries, 565. plexus of nerves, 571. veins, 566. Vesico-uterine ligaments, 559. pouch, 559. Vesicula prostatica, 579. Vesiculaj seminales, relations of, 555. structure of, 573. Vestibule of the ear, 746. artery of, 754. nerves of, 753. of the mouth, 133. of the nose, 139. of the vulva, 438. Vestigial fold of pericardium, 344, 362. Vibrissa), 139. Vidian artery, 145. nerve, 144. Vieussens, annulus or isthmus of, 348. ansa of, 116. valve of, 238. intestinal, 504. Vincula vasculosa, 202. Vitreous body, 731. Vocal cords, 162. glottis, 161. Vulva, 438, 585. Wharton's duct, 99. White commissure of the cord, 419. line of pelvic fascia, 530. Willis, circle of, 187. enumeration of cranial nerves, 189, Windpipe, 120, 366. Winslow, foramen of, 483. Wirsung, canal of, 510. Worm of cerebellum, 234, 238. Wrisberg, nerve of, 261, 277, 283. Wrist-joint, 326. Yellow spot of eyeball, 731. Zonule of Zinn, 732. Zygomatic muscles, 25.LONDON: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE. SMITH, ELDER, & CO. S PUBLICATIONS. Imperial folio. 2 vols, half hound in morocco, £6 6.s. May also he had in Parts scpaTately. Parts 1 to 28, -Ss'. Qd. rxtch; Part 29, 5s. ILLUSTRATIONS OF DISSECTIONS. In a Series of Original Coloured Plates, the size of Life, representing the Dissection of the Human Body. By G. V. Ellis and G. H. Ford. 'With these plates, and such as these, by his Ride, the learner will he well guided in his dis- section ; and, under their guidance, he may safely continue his study when out of tlie dis- secting room. With such plates as these, the surgeon will be fully reminded of all that is needful in anatomy when engaged in planning an operation.' Medical Time^. The DESCRIPTIVE ATLAS of ANATOMY. A Representation of the Anatomy of the Human Body. lu 92 lloyal 4to. Plates, containing 553 Illustrations. Intro- ducing Heitzmann's Figures, considerably inodificd, and with many Original Drawings from Nature. By Noble Smith, F.R.C.S. Edin., L.R.C.P. Lend.; Surgeon to the All Saints' Children's Hospital and Orthopicdic Surgeon to the British Home for Incurables. Bound in half-leather, price 2.5.s\ A DIRECTORY for the DISSECTION of the HUMAN BODY. By .Tohn Cl-el/vnd, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Glasgow. Third Edition, thoroughly revised by John Yulk Mackay, M.U., Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy in the University of "Glasgow. Fcp. 8vo. 3.s'. 6r/. POST-MORTEM HANDBOOK : or, How to Conduct Post-^[orteni Examinations for Clinical and Medico-Legal Purposes. By Thomas Harris, M.D. Lond., M.R.C.P.; Pathological Registrar to the Manchester Royal Infirmary ; Assistant Lecturer, and Demonstrator of Pathology in the Owens College, and Honorary Assistant-Physician to the Manchester Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Throat. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3.s'. Qd. A TREATISE on SURGERY: its Principles and Piiactige. By T. Holmes, M.A. Cantab., F.R C.S., Consulting Surgeon to St. George's Hospital; Memb. Associe de la Soc. de Chir. de Paris. Fifth Edition. Edited by T. Pickering Pick, Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, St. Georj^e's Hospital; Senior Surgeon, Victoria Hospital f)r Children; ]\[emb;^r of th!> Court of Examiners, Royal College of Surgeons of England. Fifth Edition. With 42S Illustrations. Royal 8vo. 30y. A DICTIONARY of PRACTICAL SURGERY. By Various British Hospital Surgeons. Edited by Christopher Hkath, F.R.C.S., Hulme Professor of Clinical Surgery m University College, London, Surgeon to University College Hospital; Member of the Council and Coiu't of Examiners of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. In 2 vols, comprising 1,864 pages. Third Edition. Royal Svo. price 32s., bomid in cloth; or in half-morocco, marbled edges, -12^. An INDEX OF SURGERY : being a Concise Classification of the Main Facts and Theories of Surger}^ for the U^e of Senior Students and others. By C. B. Keetley, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the West London Hospital, and to the Surgical-Aid Society. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo. 10s. Qd. The SURGERY of DEFORMITIES. A Manual for Students and Practitioners. By Noble Smith, F.R.C.S. Edin., L.R.C.P. Loud., Surgeon to the All Saints' Children's Hospital; Senior Surgeon and Surgeon to the Orthopaedic Department of the Farringdon Dispensary, and Orthopaedic Surgeon to the British Home for In- curables. With US Illustrations. Crown Svo. 10s. 6(f. ANTISEPTIC SURGERY: its Principles, Practice, History, and Results. By W. Watson Cheyne, M.B., F.R.C.S., Assistant-Surgem to King's College Hospital, and Demonstrator of Surgical Pathology in King's College. Yfith 145 Illustrations. Svo. 2 Is, A MANUAL of DENTAL SURGERY and PATHOLOGY. By Alfred Coleman, L.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., Exam., L.D.S., &c.; Senior Dental Surgeon and Lecturer on Dental Surgery to St. Bartholomew's and the Dental Hospital of London; Member of Board of Examiners in Dental Surgery, Ro5^al College of Surgeons; late President Oiontological Society of Great Britain. With 3S8 lUustrations. Crown Svo. 12s. Qd.miTH, ELDER d: CU.'S PUBLICATIONS. LONDON : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE. MANUAL of the ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. For Students and Practitioners. By W. AYatson Cheyne, M.B., F.R.C.S., Assistant-Surgeon to King's College Hospital; Surgeon to the Paddington Green Children's Hosi)ital, &c. "With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6fl. A TREATISE on the THEORY and PRACTICE of MEDICINE. By John Syk,e Bkistowe, M.D. Lond., Fellow and formerly Censor of the Koyal College of Physicians; Senior Physician to, and Joint Lecturer on Medicine at, St. Thomas's Hospital; President of the Society of Medical Officers of Health: Fxaminer in Medicine to the Rojal College of Surgeons; formerly Examiner in jMedicine to the University of London, and Lecturer on General Pathology and on Physiology at St. Tlionias's Hospital. Seventh Edition. 8vo. price 2Ls'. CLINICAL MANUAL for the STUDY of MEDICAL CASES. Edited by J. FiNLAYsoN, M.l)., Physician and Lecturer on Clinical Medicine in the Glasgow AVestern Infirmary. With Special Chapters by Prof. Gaiudner on the Physiognomy of Disease; Dr. Alexander Itoi^EiiTsoN on Insanity; Dr. Joseph Coats on the Throat; Professor Ste]>henson on Disorders of the Female Organs; Dr. Samson Gemmell on Physical Diagnosis. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged, with many new Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 12.s'. 6r/. An INDEX of SYMPTOMS as an AID to DIAGNOSIS, hy Ralph WiNNiNGTON Leftwich, M.D., late Assistant-Physician to the East London Children's Hospital. Fcp. 8vo. o.v. Each Symptom is followed hy an Ali)habetical List of Diseases in which it occurs. A MANUAL of GENERAL PATHOLOGY. By Joseph F. Payne, M.D., E.Ii.C.P., late Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford ; Physician and Joint Lectux'er on Pathological Anatomy at St. Thomas's Hospital; Examiner in Pathology in the University of Oxford; late Examiner in Medicine to the Iloyal College of Surgeons of England, &c. "With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 126'. Gd. A PRACTICAL TREATISE on URINARY and RENAL DISEASES, including UIIINARY DEPOSITS. Illustrated by numerous Cases and Engravings. Fourth Edition, licA-ised and Enhirged. By Sir Wm. Bokerts, M.D., F.B.S. Assisted by BonER r Macquire, M.l). Lond., Member of the Boyal College of Physicians, London ; Physician to Out-Paticnts, St. Mary's Hospital, London ; late Pathologist to the Manchester Royal Infirmary. Small 8vo. 12.y. 6d. A TREATISE on the SCIENCE and PRACTICE of MIDWIFERY. By AV. S. Playfair, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician-Accoucheur to H.I. and R.H. the Duchess of Edinburgh; Professor of Obstetric Medicine in King's College; Physician for the Diseases of Women and Children to King's College Hospital; Consulting Physician to the General Lying-in Hospital, and to the Evelina Hospital for Children; late President of the Obstetrical Sociotj- of London; Examiner in Midwifery to the University of London, and to the Royal College of Physicians. 2 vols, demy Svo. Seventh Edition. With 187 Illustrations and 6 Plates. 28s. A SYSTEM of OBSTETRIC MEDICINE and SURGERY, Theoketical ano Clinical. For the Student and Practitioner. By Rouert Barnes, M.D., Obstetric Physician to the St. George's Hospital, Consulting Physician to the Chelsea Hospital for AVomen, &c., and Fancourt Barnes, M.l)., Physician to the Royal Maternity Charity and to the British Lying-in Hospital; Obstetric Physician to the Great Northern Hospital; Physician to the Chelsea Hospital for Women. Complete in 2 vols, with numerous Illustrations. 8vo. Vol. I., 18a'. ; Vol. II., 206'. A MANUAL of MIDWIFERY for MID WIVES. By Fancoukt Barnes, M.D. Aber., M.R.C.P. Lond., Physician to the Royal Maternity Charity; Physician to the British Lying-in Hospital; Obstetric Physician to the Great Northern Hospital; Physician to the Chelsea Hospital for Women. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo. With numerous Illustrations. 6s. A JUNIOR COURSE of PRACTICAL ZOOLOGY. By A. Milnes Marshall, M.D., D.Sc, M.A., F.R.S., Professor in the Victoria University; Beyer Professor of Zoology in Owens College; late Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge. Assisted by C. Herbert Hurst, Demonstrator and Assi-itant-Lectui'er in Zoology, Owens College, Manchester. Second Edition, Revised. With additional Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 10s. Hd.