COKFEmOKBIl► t '. •. > ' . r-,' r'^’. ! - ' ■ ■ ' j ■ . ' . ■ .'•v-,. ■ /' j.PREFACE. The cook, domestics generally, and those of the busi- ness unacquainted with the London practice, will find this work a useful acquisition, as it will give them the most approved manner in which articles are manufac- tured by the generality of the trade. I have endeavoured to describe the diflferent receipts in as plain and concise a manner as possible, and at the same time, to convey an idea of the variations which are made in many of the mixtures by the trade, for there is scarcely a shop, but has some peculiar method of its own, or variation in the quantity of ingredients used to manufacture many articles; but to describe each particularly would be almost an herculean labour, and of no advantage to persons who want a proper method to guide them, without attending to every person’s whim, many of them trivial and useless. I have made this remark, principally for young men of the business, who wish to seek experience, that they may endeavour to learn, in the first place, what the annearance and nature of each article should be; and secondly, the best method of manufacturing that arti- cle, with the necessary quantity of ingredients, and the BCONFECTIONARY 6 again immersed in the iced water, until you are ready to use it, when it should be pressed in a clean cloth or napkin. If ice cannot be easily procured, the following mix- ture may be used with advantage: one ounce of chrys- talised muriate of ammonia, one ounce of nitrate of potass, and two ounces of sulphate of soda: powder each separately, and throw them into just sufficient cold spring water for the butter to float freely. AVheii you take the butter out for using, wash it well in cold spring water. If these powders are put into a half pint of water, and a phial bottle containing cold water be immersed in it, ice will be produced, although it is the hottest day in summer. The water in the phial must be below that of the mixture. Confectioners, in hot weather, generally steep their butter in cold spring water, for the night before using, and place it in the coldest part that can be found about the premises. Others add to the water a little car- bonate of ammonia, (volatile salt,) and common salt, of about two ounces to a large pan of water; but this is not a good plan, as I have seen butter spoiled by it, especially if it is not very good. Pure sal am- moniac should be used instead, with cold boiled water. The Egyptians used to put water, which was previously boiled, into earthen jars, and expose them all night on the upper part of their houses to the air to cool, which they removed before sunrise, and buried in the ground. 13y a similar method, water is converted into ice, in the East Indies. The extreme coldness of the night air in these hot countries thus enables the inhabitants to cool water for many domestic purposes. PUFF PASTE. A pound and a quarter of flour, and one pound of butter.—Or, one pound of flour, one pound of butter.MADK EASY. Take a quarter or a sixth of the butter, rub it in with the flour; then mix it into a paste with cold water, it should be of the same consistence as the butter, in sum- mer, a little weaker; lightly dust the board or marble slab with flour, and roll out the paste, or work it with vour hands, as for tart paste, until it is smooth and evenly mixed, then roll it into a sheet about an inch thick. Take the remainder of the butter, and cover the sheet of paste with small pieces, either by cut- ting it in thin slices with a knife, or by breaking it into small pieces with your fingers. Then give the sheet two or three folds, and roll it out thin; this is called one turn; the half turn is merely folding it in two, or doubling the sheet again; let it lay in a cool place, covered with a damp cloth for half an hour; or place some ice in a deep dish, with another on this, on which put the paste, over this put a third, covered with ice pounded small and let it lay as before, then roll it out again. Do this three or four separate times, and your paste is fit for use. The number of turns which you give the paste, will depend on the thickness it is rolled out, it may require five or six turns. In winter, those precautions of letting the paste lay, before rolling out a third or fourth time, may be dis- pensed with, if it is required in a hurry, as the butter being firm and the weather cold, it will admit of its being done so. BAKING OF PASTRY. In the baking of pastry, the heat of the oven should be regulated according to the article intended to be baked, or those things should be made first which will suit the heat of the oven. Light paste requires a moderately quick oven: for if the oven is too hot, the paste will be coloured before it is properly baked; and if it is then taken out of the oven, it will fall, and become flat: also, a cool oven will not cause it to rise suflaciently; and puff paste baked in an oven, with any thing that causes8 CONFKCTIONART mvich steam, will not be so light as otherwise. Tarts or puffs that are iced, should be baked in a cooler oven than those that are not iced; or if the oven is too hot, the door should be left open, else the iceing will become brown before they are baked. Small articles of pastry, require to be baked in a hotter oven than large ones. All pastry requires to be baked in clean tins or patty pans, without being buttered. Pastry, when baked sufSciently, may be easily slid about on the tin, or pan, while hot: and puffs, patties, or small pies, may be lifted from the tin, without breaking, by putting your fingers round the edges, and carefully lifting them; which cannot be done unless they are baked enough to be taken from the oven. COVENTRY PUFF. Roll out your paste in a sheet about half an inch thick, and cut it in square pieces, according to the size you intend your puffs to be, roll it out rather thin: put some raspberry jam in the centre; fold up the sides so as to form a three-cornered puff; turn it over, notch the edges with a knife; and ice them, by first washing them over with white of egg that has been whisked to a froth; then dust them well with finely-powdered loaf sugar, and with a brush sprinkle them with clean water, just sufficient to moisten the sugar. If jwu sprinkle them too much, they will appear as if they were not iced at all, as it washes the sugar off again. BANBURY PUFFS. Cut the paste, as directed for Coventrys, without rolling it thin; lay some of your Banbury-meat (see page 9,) in the middle, and fold up the edges of your paste, so as to form an oval puff, thus o ; this is done by pressing more of your paste together at the ends tban in the centre. Turn them, and dust the tops well with loaf sugar dust, and bake them in a moderate oven.9 MADE EASY. BANBURY MEAT. Cream a quarter of a pound of butter, and mix with It half a pound of moist sugar, six ounces of flour, two ounces each of candied orange and lemon peel cut fine, one pound of currants, a quarter of an ounce of ground cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of allspice. Keep in a jar for use. BANBURY MEAT. (No. 2.) Crumble some stale savoy or pound cake, and sweet biscuits together; mix with this some chopped apples, currants, candied peels cut fine, mixed spices, a little butter and sugar, the juice with the yellow rind of lemons rubbed ofiT on sugar, or a little essence of lemon may be used instead: moisten the whole wdth a little thin raspberry jam, or raw treacle, mix the W'hole to palate, making it either rich or poor, according to the price and size your Banburys are sold. Press the whole into a jar, and keep it for use. MINCE, OR ECCLES CAKE. Get some pieces of tin, about a foot long, by six or nine inches wide, or larger, if you please. Boll out a sheet of puflF paste, about the eighth of an inch in thickness, or rather thicker, and sufficiently large to cover the tin. Then put on a layer of Banbury meat, about half an inch thick.* Roll out a sheet of paste as thick again as the bottom crust, and lay it over the top; trim the paste from the sides, and divide the top into small squares. Bake it in a moderate oven; as soon as it is done, dust the top well with loaf-sugar dust. •The thickness of your Banbury meat, and also the size of your squares, should be regulated entirely by the price they are sold at. CHEESECAKE CASES. Roll out some pieces of paste, nearly half an inch thick, and large enough to cover the pans. Thin them10 CONFECTIONARY a little in the middle, trim the paste from the edges, and notch them round. Put some curd in the centre of the paste; cut a slice of lemon peel and put it on the top. And bake them in a moderate oven. If for a large Cheesecake, line a flat pie dish or tin pan with puff or tart paste, put an extra rim of paste round the edge, spread some curd for cheesecakes over the paste within an inch or inch and a half of the edge, ornament the top, with candied citron, or lemon-peel cut in thin slices, and sliced almonds to fancy, or sprinkle over a few currants, and bake it in a moderate oven. CURD FOR CHEESECAKES. Put a quart of new milk into a clean pan, and set it by the side of the fire so that it will keep blood warm; put a table-spoonful of rennet into it, too much will make the curd hard and the whey very salt; in a short time, it will be separated into curd and whey, which cut into small pieces with a knife. Or, put in a small piece of alum, about the size of a nutmeg, into the milk, and let it boil. Strain the curd from the whey by means of a hair sieve, either let it drain, or press it dry; pass the curd through the sieve, by squeezing it into a basin. Melt three ounces of good butter, and mix with the curd, also two or three eggs, or else one egg and four yolks. Add sugar to your palate; with a little grated nutmeg, and a few currants if approved of; mix the whole together, and fill the cases. POTATOE CHEESE CURD. Boil or roast half a pound of good mealy potatoes; take off their skins, and press them fine. Then reduce a quarter of a pound of good butter to a cream: mix with this the yolks of three eggs, three ounces of pow- dered loaf sugar, a piece of stale savoy cake, or pound- cake crumbled, and a little essence of lemon; mix as you would for pound-cake, adding the potatoe pulpMADE EASY. 11 after the butter and sugar. A few currants may be used. POTATOE CHEESE CURD. (No. 2.) Half a pound of mealy potatoes bruised fine, a quarter of a pound of butter, two eggs, a little stale savoy cake, and one pound of flour; mix as before. LEMON CHEESE CURD. Make it as directed for Cheesecake curd, but instead of using nutmegs and currants, add some lemon juice; with the peels of three lemons rubbed off on a piece of loaf sugar, scrape off the yellow part which has imbibed the oil, and put it into the curd; add some candied lemon peel cut into small pieces, and mix the whole together; ornament the top with thin slices of peel. ORANGE CHEESE CURD Is made as the preceding, using orange peel and juice instead of lemon. ALMOND CHEESE CURD. Pound six bitter and twelve sweet almonds fine in a mortar, and cut six more sweet ones into different sized pieces. Then proceed as Curd for Cheesecakes, only instead of using lemon peel, nutmeg, and currants, put in your almonds, with, if you wish, half a glass of brandy. Use sliced almonds for ornament. A PYRAMID OF PASTRY. Make some paste as for mince pies, roll it in a sheet half an inch thick, cut it out, either with round or oval cutters, into pieces each a size or two smaller than the other, bake them in a moderate oven, spread some jam or marmalade over each piece, but do not put so much as will run down the sides and disfigure them, put them one on the other; each slice or piece may be spread with a different sort of preserve.CONFECTIONARY 12 SWISS PASTE. FRENCH PASTE. Roll out a piece of puflF paste about an inch and a half thick, and three inches wide; cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch thick; lay them, with their flat sides on a baking-plate, three or four inches distant from each other. Bake in a moderately quick oven. When done, spread a thin layer of raspberry jam on the flat side of one of the pieces, and lay on another piece to cover it. APPLE, GOOSEBERRY, AND OTHER FRUIT PUFFS. Roll out your pastry as directed for Coventry puffs; put some of your fruit, with a little sugar, in the cen- tre; sprinkle them with water, fold your paste over, so as to form a semi-circle, and ice them as before directed. Apples should be peeled, cored, and cut in small pieces; rhubarb should have the strings on the outside taken off, and then cut in pieces. MINCE PIES. Take some patty pans, roll out the cuttings of puff paste, or some tart paste, rather thin, to line them with. Nearly fill them with mince-meat, making it rather high in the middle and leaving it half an inch from the edge; make a good light piece of paste, by using a pound of butter to a pound of flour, add an egg, with the juice of a lemon, to the w'ater, w'hen you mix it; put on some moderately stout pieces of paste for covers; trim it off round the edges with a knife, make a small hole in the middle with a stick or piece of the whisk. And bake them in a moderate oven. MINCE MEAT. Four pounds of the best beef suet, chopped fine; five pounds of apples, peeled, cored, and chopped fine; four jiounds of mixed lemon, orange, and citron peel, cut small; two pounds of sugar. Grate three nutmegs,MADE EASl. 13 and use other spices to taste; add half a pint of brandy. Mix the whole together, and keep in a jar for use. MINCE MEAT, (No. 2.) Three pounds of beef suet, three pounds of good ap- ples, four pounds of currants, one pound of raisins, stoned and chopped small, half a pound of good moist sugar, half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of nut- meg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter of an' ounce of cinnamon, a pint of brandy: mix as before. MINCE MEAT, (No. 3.) Stew one pound of lean beef till tender, chop it fine, with two pounds of beef suet, and one pound of apples; add two pounds of sugar, three pounds of currants, one pound of candied lemon and orange peel, a quarter of a pound of citron peel, one ounce of mixed spices, the yellow rind of six lemons rubbed on sugar, half a pint of brandy or wine, and the juice of two lemons. Mix, and keep as before. In each of these three receipts, the apples should be added when the mince meat is used, and not when it is first mixed for keeping. SAUSAGE ROLLS. Have ready some nice sausage meat, which can always be obtained from the pork butcher^s. If you wish to make it, get some nice pork chops, cut the meat from the bones, or take two-thirds of lean free from gristle, and one-third fat, chop the meat very fine, and season it well with pepper, salt, and spices, add a small quantity of sage, or basil, use a little water in chopping the meat, or else a little soaked bread. Roll out some paste into square pieces, lay a roll of meat in the centre, lengthways; fold them so as to form long puffs, and wash them with egg before they are baked.14 CONFKCriONAKY PATTY CASES. These should be made from the best paste, as for niiuce pies. Get three cutters, of different sizes, roll out the Baste about three quarters of inch thick; cut out as many pieces as you want, with the large cirtter; cut out the same quantity of pieces with your second- sized cutter; and with the third size, cut out some small thin pieces to put on the top of these; then with your second-sized cutter, cut the paste partly through, which you had from the large cutter, leaving, as near as you can, an equal edge round it; wash the top with egg, and hake them on an iron plate: dip each of the cutters into boiling water before using, which prevents the edge being drawn down, and they rise more evenly. When baked, take out the centre of the large pieces with a knife, as far as the mark of the cutter, and about three parts of the depth of the paste; fill these vacancies or holes with some prepared patty meat, put the other pieces on the top, and send them to table quite hot. TOL-AU-VENT. Take some paste as for patty cases, give it an extra half turn, make it about one Inch and a half in thick- ness, cut it out with a large oval or round cutter, or in any other shape with a knife to suit the form and size of the dish, heat the knife or cutter in hot water, mark it round about an inch from the edge, ornament the centre part by cutting any design with a knife, egg the top and bake it in a moderate heat; when it is rather more than three parts done, take it out, and remove the centre piece, which you reserve for a cover, scoop out the remaining part of the paste from the centre, leaving it half an inch thick at the bottom, put it in the oven again to dry or finish baking, it should be four or five inches high, and quite straight, fill it with any sort of ragout or fricasee as for patties; these are occa- sionally filled with a compote, or a made dish of fish, or served, as a sweet entree, filled with a cream or fruit.MADE EASY. 15 PATTY MEATS. OYSTER. Get one dozen and a half of oysters; more or less according to the number and size of the patties you have to fill; when they are opened preserve the liquor which comes from them, and strain it through a cloth or sieve, take off their beards, and put them on the fire in a stewpan with their own liquor, to simmer for about five minutes, only to scald or blanch, but not to boil, as it will make them hard; then take them out and cut them into small diamonds or pieces, put them again into the stewpan with their liquor; add a table spoon- ful of anchovy essence, with sufiicient new milk or cream to cover the oysters and fill out the patty cases, a slice of lemon, a blade or two of mace, pepper and salt to palate, a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, mixed with flour, to thicken it, or use some roux. Let the whole boil for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time it is boiling, take out the lemon and mace, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the sauce, and fill your patties. OYSTER. (No. 2.) Get a sufiScient quantity of oysters as before, open, and put them in a stewpan, with their own liquor and the quarter of a small onion; simmer for five minutes, strain them, and take out the onion. Take off their beards, and cut them in small pieces; put them again into the stewpan, with one ounce of butter, in which have been mixed an ounce of flour, some new milk; part milk and part cream is preferable; the liquor they were first boiled in, an ounce of bread crumbs, a little cayenne, mace, and salt, to palate; put all together on the fire; simmer it about ten minutes, stirring it all the while.16 CONrECTXOWARY LOBSTER. Take quj; the spawn which is found towards the head of a hen lobster, bruise it in a mortar, or on the board, with a knife, cut the meat of the body and claws into small pieces, proceed as for Oyster Patty Meat, adding one or two table spoonsful of anfchovy essence. A hen lobster is known by having a broader tail than the male, with two small fans underneath, and by the outside spawn, which should be taken off and reserved for sauce before the lobster is boiled. VEAL. Take half a pound of veal cutlet, stew it in a very little water, with a small onion, for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour; strain off the liquor, and cut out all the skin and gristle, cut the rest into small pieces, put into a stewpan with a slice of a lemon, and proceed as for Oyster Patties, (No. 2.) VEAL. (No. 2.) Half a pound of veal cutlet, either try or bake it, and proceed as before. Put it into a stewpan, with enough good strong beef gravy, to till the cases; season to palate; add a small piece of butter and flour, or roux as before; simmer all together for ten minutes, add a little gravy-colouring, (see colouring for Gravies) and make it a nice brown. SAVORY. This is made as the last receipt, with the addition of half the quantity of ham that you have of veal. WHITE ROUX. Melt some butter in a stewpan, and mix in a sufficient quantity of flour to make it thick, continue stirring it over the fire with a wooden spoon until it is very hot, and appears like a paste; put this into a pan and keepMADK EASY. 17 it for use to thicken the patty meats or ragouts, in- stead of the butter rolled in dour. BROWN ROUX. ' Melt some butter and let it remain on the fire to brown, then add flour to thicken it, keep stirring it over the fire until it is of a nice brown colour. Use this for thickening brown gravies, or the veal patty meat, (No. 2.) PIES. BEEF-STEAK PIE. Take some good rump steaks, beat them well with a rolling-pin; and season them with seasoning salt. Wet the edge of a pie dish, and put an edging of puff' paste round it, lay in the steaks, half fill the dish with water, wet the edging, lay on a good thick crust and trim it off with a knife. Wash the top with egg, and ornament it with leaves; let these also be washed with egg, and bake the pie in a moderate oven: after it is baked make a hole in the top or side of the crust and pour in some good rich gravy seasoned with salt and pepper. Always regulate the thickness of your crust to the size of the pie. SEASONING SALT FOR PIES. Mix half a pound of white pepper with a pound of salt, or a pound and a half of salt; use about half an ounce of this mixture to each pound of meat. To each pound of this seasoning salt, may be added half an ounce of mace, nutmeg and cloves mixed, and a quarter of an ounce of sweet basil; thyme and parsleyCONFECTIONARY 18 dried and powdered, or each of these mixtures may be prepared and kept separate, to use at discretion. . MUTTON PIE. Take off the skin and outside fat of a loin of mutton, cut it into steaks, and proceed as for Beef-Steak Pie. VEAL PIE. Take enough veal cutlets to fill the dish, season them with pepper, salt, and pounded mace; put in a few yolks of eggs that have been boiled hard, between the meat; or use in preference some forcemeat balls, made as fol- lows :—Take equal quantities of lean veal and beef suet, cut it in small pieces, pound it fine in a mortar, adding some sweet herbs, a little nutmeg and mace, some lemon peel cut small, and sufficient yolk of egg to form the whole into a paste; make it into small balls, and inter- sperse them about the pie. Put in some good rich gravy, (see Beef Gravy), and finish as for other meat pies; a little onion, shalot, and green parsley, may be chopped small and strewed over the meat. SAVORY PIE. To a pound of veal add half a pound of ham cut in thin slices. Season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. In filling the dish, put a few yolks of eggs boiled hard, between the veal and ham, which you will put in alternately; half fill it with good rich gravy, (see Beef Gravy,) put on a crust of puff paste, and finish as others. PIGEON PIE. Get four pigeons, cut them down the back, see they are perfectly clean, and put some forcemeat inside each. Lay a pound and a half of tender beef steak over the bottom and over the top of the dish, with the pigeons in the centre; season the whole with pepper and salt, or with seasoning salt, and add four or six yolks of eggs that19 MADE EASY. have been boiled hard. A few forcemeat balls may be laid between the meat and pigeons. Or, instead, make a few egg balls, with the yolks of eggs boiled hard, and mixed with a little crumb of bread, and pepper and salt to palate; mix the whole together, and make into small balls. Cover the dish with crust, as for Beef Steak Pie; wash the crust with egg, and ornament it with leaves; place the feet either round the dish, or in the centre, as fancy may dictate. Note. When forcemeat balls are used in this way, there is no forcemeat put in the bellies; and these egg-balls are sometimes Died instead of forcemeat. FORCEMEAT FOR PIGEON PIES. Bub the livers of the pigeons quite fine; add chopped parsley, marjoram, shalot, butter, and bread-crumbs, or flour. Season it with cayenne or other pepper, mace, and salt; mix it into a stiff paste with the yolks of eggs. Put some inside each of the pigeons. If you make balls of it, dust the board with flour, roll it out, and make it into balls about the size of the yolk of an egg, and disperse about the pie. CHICKEN PIE. Cut a chicken or two into pieces fit to be served at table, season them with pepper and salt, (a little mace may be added) lay the pieces in a dish with the breasts upwards, a few thin slices of good bacon with the rind cut off, may be laid on the top, which will improve the flavour. Cover with a good crust of puff paste, and proceed as before. EEL PIE. Get some fine eels, cleanse, skin, or the skin may be left on, and bone them; the best method of doing this will be, to lay each eel straight on a board, and «tick in two forks, one in the head, and the other in the tail; open the eel down the back, on each side of the bone c20 CONFKCTIONARY out without cutting through the flesh of the back; then cut off their heads and tails, and lay them on the board. Then take some bread crumbs, sweet marjoram, a handful of parsley, some pepper, salt, and mace; chop the herbs fine, and mix the whole to- gether; strew it over the eels, then roll them in a circle, and lay them in a dish. Put the heads and tails in a saucepan with some beef gravy, and season it, let them simmer some time; strain this into the dish; when cold, put on a good thick crust of puff paste, and finish as for other pies. Or they may be put into a case for a raised pie. Other fish pies are made simi- lar to this, use the fillets of soles for sole pies: and salmon or other large fish, may be cut in scollops. PERIGORD PIE. Take a long narrow tin, and rub it over with butter, line the bottom and sides with tart paste, over this spread some veal forcemeat, as for pies, leaving out the trufiells and shalot, or the same as for a veal pie, (see veal pie); cut a loin or fillet of veal into long pieces half an inch or an inch square, cut some ham in the same man- ner: make a paste for egg balls (see Cookery Made Easy, Dean & Son,) the same as for the pigeon pie,make it into small long rolls: place in the pie a piece of ham, a piece of veal, and a roll of the paste for egg balls, alternately. When the bottom is covered in this manner, put over it a thin layer of forcemeat, and continue the same until the pie is full; put on a good thick cover of puflF paste, wash it over with egg and bake it in a moderate oven: when it is done, make a hole in the middle, and fill it with strong gravy. RAISED PIES. Seven pounds of flour, one pound of clarified mut- ton-suet or butter. Put the suet or butter in a sauce- pan, with a pint and a half of water, and set it over the fin5 till it boils. Having made a bay with the flourj21 JtfAD-K EASY, pour in the butter or suet and water boiling hot: stir in sufficient of the flour with a spoon or spaddle, until you can bear your hand in it; then mix the whole toge- ther until you have a nice smooth piece of dough. Cover it with a cloth or pan, or put it in a pan, and cover it with a cloth, and set it in a warm place. Use it as^ wanted, in sufficiently large pieces to form your pie Fill it with elean bran, which will cause it to retain its shape whilst baking, put on the top, and nicely close it; wash it over with egg, and ornament it according to your fancy. Small pies require a brisk oven, and larger ones a more steady heat, according to their size Cut round the cover and take it off; clean out tho bran nicely from the inside, and fill it. FARCE OR FORCEMEAT FOR RAISED PIES. Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, some savory herbs, chopped parsley, truffles, shalots, and mushrooms. Scrape the bacon and also the veal, to free it from the sinews, pound them together in a mortar, add the crumb of a French roll, season it with seasoning salt, spices, the savoury herbs, and parsley; pound the whole until it is well incorporated, add the yolks of raw eggs to bind it together, and make it a maleable paste, then mix in the chopped truffles, mushrooms, and shalot, the last must be used sparingly. For fowl, game, or rabbit pies, add the livers to the forcemeat, as for pigeons, with some ham,, and for. woodcocks and snipes,, the trail also. BEEF GRAVr. Fill a small saucepan with water; put in one poundl of lean beef: simmer till reduced to a pint. CONSOMME, OR GRAVY FOR PIES. Take a knuckle of veal, a clean calfs^ foot, a shin of beef, and knuckle of ham, cut the meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces. Put the ham at' thetCONFECTIONARY 23 bottom of a stock pot, and the other meat on the top with the bones, and the trimmings and bones of any game or poultry, add about a quart of w-ater, put on the lid, and let it draw down over the tire, shaking the pot occasionally to prevent the meat be- ing burnt, when this is reduced to a glaze, fill up the pot with water, or cover the meat about four inches with it, to which may be added three or four large onions peeled and cut in slices, two or three car- rots, a head of celery, a few whole allspice and some pepper; if the gravy or pies are required to be kept, it is better without the vegetables: when it boils, take off the scum, which you continue doing as often as any rises, that it may be clear; let it boil slowly for live or six hours, then strain it through a hair sieve into fiat dishes, and carefully take off all the fat, A second stock may be obtained from it, by adding more water, and boiling it as before. All that is not wanted for present use, should be reduced to a glaze, by boiling it until it appears almost as thick as treacle, it should then be poured into skins or basins, when it will keep good for several months, and may be used wdien required, by cutting ofi" a piece and putting it in a saucepan with some water, place it over a fire to melt. A good gravy or stock may at any time be made in a few minutes with it. ASPIC JELLY FOR PIES AND COLD ENTREES. Clarify the consomme or gravy for pies with eggs, in the same manner as directed for calves feet jelly. Croutons of this jelly, is made by cutting it when cold, into slices half an inch thick, then cut it out to form diamonds, triangles, or any other form your fancy may suggest. COLOURINGS FOR GRAVIES. Put one pound of coarse sugar into a stewpan with a teacupful of water: set it on the fire, and let it remainMADE EASY. 23 until it is turned rather blackthen add water, and stir it well up. Bottle and keep for use. FOR FILLING RAISED PIES. PIGEONS. Get three pigeons, either half bake or roast them. Take about a quart of beef gravy (see Beef Gravy), three or four mushroom buttons, and (about a tea-spoonful) of sweet herbs, season with seasoning salt; put a part of the gravy into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter mixed with half an ounce of flour, or thicken it w'ith tlie brown roux; (see brown roux) simmer it over the fire, adding the remainder of gravy by degrees, be care- ful it is not knotty, put in the pigeons, and let the whole simmer together until they are done, a lit- tle forcemeat may be added with the pig^ns, and a glass or two of sherry. Colour it a tine brown with gravy colouring; fill your pie. If you send it to table without a cover, garnish the top with parsley and slices of lemon to fancy. All fowl pies are prepared in a similar manner. RABBITS, OR ANY KIND OP MEAT, POULTRY, OR GAME. Cut the rabbit in pieces and fry it. Use only the prime parts, and proceed as before. Use the liver of the rabbit in making the forcemeat, as for pigeons. Any other pie is prepared in the same manner as these, whether it be meat, poultry, or game, or fill it with a ragout of veal, &c. (see Cookery Made Easy.) A FRENCH RAISED PIE OF FOWLS OR GAME, TO BE SERVED COLD. Pick, singe, and draw the birds and bone them, sea- son the insides with seasoning salt, mixed with spice;CONTBCTIONAKY -J. till them with the foi-cemeat for pies to make them in their original shape, put them into a stewpan with some good consomme, or gravy, with the bones and the re- maining part of the forcemeat that was not put in the birds; add a few button mushrooms and truffles, with some of the liquor from the last, if they are preserved; let the whole stew gently on the stove or tire until the birds are done, strain off the gravy and season it with cayenne and white pepper and salt, let them remain until cold, then place them in the case, till up the va- cancies with the forcemeat, truffles, mushrooms, and gravy, which should be a jelly. Cover them with the remaining portion of the jelly, ornament the top with clear aspic chopped small, and some cut in croutons for a border, and with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley The case is made in a tin mould which is made to open in two; take some tart paste, or the cuttings of puff paste, into which you mix a little flour, and work it clear, butter the mould, and put it on a sheet of buttered paper, roll out the paste into a sheet half an inch in thickness, cut out a strip or band to place round the side, which you press well into the volutes or ornaments, join the two edges by moistening them with egg, work down the paste to form a small rim or edge at the bot- tom, cut out a piece of paste for the bottom, egg the edges of it, and place it in with the egged edge down- wards, which will come on the rim previously made; close it well, trim the paste from the top, till it with bran and bake it in a moderate oven; when it is baked, clean out the bran, and till it as before directed. For Pheasant j)ies preserve the head and skin of the neck as tar as the ill-east, with the feathers on; pass a wire through it to make it retain its natural position, which you tix on at one end; preserve also the wings, which place at the sides, tixing them with a little claritied butter; stick the feathers of the tail into the crust opposite the head; place it on a dish, and send to table.MADE EASi;. 25 TARTS AND FRUIT PIES. TARTLETS. Put a layer of puff paste about half an.inch thick, in your ]).'uis; let it be thinner in the middle than at the edges, wiiich is done by pressing your thumb round the centre, or, with a small piece of paste dipped in the dour, to prevent its sticking, press the paste in the centre of the pan, and trim it off close to the edge of the pan with a knife. Fill them either with preserved, bottled, or ripe fruit; let them be nicely strung: and bake them in a moderate oven. If the stringing does not adhere to the edge very readily, damp it with a moist brush, STRINGING. Take a piece of tart paste, large enough for your pur- pose, rub it with your hand on the board, until you can pull it into long strings : if the paste should be rather too tight, you cannot pull it into strings so freely as if it were of a proper consistence. In this case, use a little cold water in rubbing it down, and also afterwards to moisten it when it becomes short with using. STRINGING. (No. 2.) Half a pound of flour and one ounce of butter. Dub the butter in with the flour, mix it into a rather soft paste with cold water, and proceed as before directed. Experience alone will determine the consistence the paste is to be mixed.26 CONFECTIONAKY TO PREPARI! APPLES OR PHIARS FOR TARTLETS. If apples or pears are used to fill the tartlets, let them be peeled, cored, and cut in quarters; then boil them in water, till tender. Drain off nearly the whole of the water in which they were boiled, and reduce the fruit to a pulp, either by squeezing, or by passing it through a sieve or colander. Rub off the yellow rind of a lemon with some loaf sugar; scrape this off and mix with the pulp; add more sugar, if necessary, and a little lemon juice, to your palate. Put it on the fire in a well-tinned saucepan, let it simmer a few minutes, stirring it occasionally. When cold, it is ready for use. Apricots may be served in the same manner, leaving out the lemon juice. TO MAKE TARTLETS WITH FRUITS WHICH HAVE BEEN PRESERVED WITHOUT SUGAR, OR WITH FRESH RIPE FRUITS. If bottled, or ripe fruits without being preserved, are used, add sugar with the fruit; and dust them with finely powdered loaf sugar, before baking. SANDWICH PASTRY. Roll out some puff paste into a thin sheet, spread some raspberry or any other jam over it. Roll out another piece the same size and thickness as the former, and put over it; cut it out with cutters into rings, crescents, or other forms, or with a knife into diamonds, squares, triangles, or fingers; ice the tops as directed for Coven- trys, or sift loaf sugar over them, bake them in a moderately warm oven,on a clean tin, keep the door shut, that the sugar may melt on the top and appear shin- ing, which is called French glazing; they are not to be done in this mann(r, or glazed, when iced as Coventrys. TRUE lovers’ knots. Roll out a piece of puff paste into a thin sheet, cut27 MADK BAST. it into pieces three or four inches square, fold each corner over into the centre, and cut a piece out from each side, leaving it in the form of a true lover’s knot; put them on a tin, and bake them in a moderate oven; when they are done, place some jam or preserve on each point, and some in the centre. puiTS d’ amour. Roll out some puff paste as for patty cases, cut out as many pieces as you will require, with an oval scolloped cutter of any size you think proper, but those which are two or three inches long, are the neatest; cut the top of the paste with a sharp pointed knife, half through at each end of the oval, brush the tops over with egg, and strew some coarse grains of loaf sugar over the edge, place them on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven; roll out a piece of tart paste into a small lorig roll, twist it, and make it into a semicircle, to form a handle, place these on a tin and bake them. Take out the paste from the centre where you have marked it with the knife, and fill it with any sort of preserve or cream, a fine strawberry, cherry, grape, or gooseberry may be put on each, fix the handle over the centre with a little melted barley sugar, or with iceing, these form a very pretty dish for a second course. They may be made round instead of oval, and the edges of each may be strewed with blanched and chopped sweet almonds or pistachios, and the sides piped with any sort of jam or jelly. TURN-OVER PUFFS. Roll out some puff paste into a sheet a quarter of an inch thick, cut it out into pieces with a round scolloped cutter, or into square pieces with a knife; put a little jam in the centre of each, and fold or double them over, press down the thumbs a little on each side of the jam to close them, ice them as directed for Coventrys, and bake them in a moderate oven, on a clean tin.CONFECTIONARl 28 FANCY PASTRY FOR FILLING BASKETS. Roll out pulF paste thin, cut them out and form them as the last, only much smaller, and without put- ting any jam between, or make them in any other form, with tin cutters; }>lace them on a clean tin, and bake them in a moderate oven, put some jam or jelly on the top of each, and arrange them tastefully in a sugar or other basket, or in a dish on a folded napkin. The whole of the small pastry and tartlets are for this purpose, and some of each should be used to make a variety, filling them with different sorts of marmalades and jams, so as there may not be a sameness. SHORT PASTE, OR TART PASTE. One pound of flour, eight ounces of butter. Rub the butter and flour together with your hands, till the but- ter is crumbled into pieces, mix it into a moderate stiff paste with cold water, and continue rubbing it with your hand on the board or slab until you have a smooth and supple piece of paste, having no degree of tough- ness, and shines on the surface. This paste will take considerably less water to mix it in summer than in winter. This is used for making raspberry tarts, and all co- vered tarts, and occasionally for large fruit and other pies. RASPBERRY TARTS. Make a long roll of tart paste, cut it off in small pieces, and roll them out in an oval form, about a quar- ter or the eighth of an inch in thickness, and let them be large enough to cover your pans; lay them in, and press the paste a little in the centre, with your thumb. Trim it off close to the edges, with the edge or back of a thin knife; notch them round. Thin some raspberry jam with a little water; fill the tarts about three parts full with it, and bake them in a quick oven.MADE BAST. 29 - > •^'*4. , COVERED TARTS. Roll out some paste into a long roll and cut it into pieces as before directed, only make them thinner; lay the bottom paste in the pans; place in the centre either some ripe, or bottled fruit; let the fruit be set up as high as you can in the middle, so as not to spread over the pan; add a little sugar, and sprinkle them with water. Put on another piece of paste for a cover; thumb it round the edges, as far as the fruit, let the centre be high and round. Reel round the edge of the tart with a tart reel; make two or three holes round the fruit, near the bottom. Ice them as directed for Coven- try puffs, only put the sugar more of a heap on the centre, then flatten it with your hand; sprinkle them well with clean water, but not too mucffi, so as to cause the sugar to run off. Nearly fill the bottom, or groove round the fruit, with clean water, and bake in a cool oven. If the oven is rather warm, leave open the door. LARGE FRUIT PIES. Fill a dish about three parts full, or rather more, of fruit; add sugar to your palate, or use about six ounces to a quart. Take the fruit from the sides, and place it in the centre, so as to make it high and round in the middle. Roll out the paste sufficiently large to covet the flish; lay it on, and with your thumbs press down the paste between the side of the dish and the fruit. Let the centre of your pie appear nice and round. Make four cuts with a knife round the fruit; trim the paste from the edge of the dish, and notch it round. You may ornament the centre of the pie, either by cutting any device your fancy may direct, with a knife, or scissors on the top, or by iceing it as directed for Coventry Puffs, when it is nearly done. Or, instead of this, whisk up the white of an egg to a very strong froth, and lay it over the centre of your pie, as high as30 CONFECTIONAR-i. you can, dust it ■with a little loaf sugar dust, aud let it remain in the oven till set. If the fruit used is nut very juicy, a little water may be put in the pie. A thin edging of paste may be put round the edge of the dish, if you think proper. The thickness of your crust for pies, of any description, you will regulate ac- cording to the size of the dish. CREAMED APPLE PIE. Pare, cut in quarters, and core, as many baking apples as your dish will hold; mix in sufficient sugar to sweeten them; grate in some lemon peel, put in four or five cloves, and a little, but not more than a teacup- ful, of water; put an edging of puff paste round a pie dish, and cover the apples with a thin crust of paste, so as to keep them moist. Put it into the oven till the apples are baked. While you are making the puff paste for the edge of the dish, make some extra, and cut it into stars, leaves, or other ornaments; touch the tops of them with white of egg, and sift sugar on that, and then sprinkle them with a very little water; put them on a plate, and bake them. Make some boiled custards, (see Boiled Custards,) and 'W'hen your apples are baked, and have got cold, take off the crust from them, and cover them well over with custard, which must also be cold. Ornament the top with the leaves and stars. A CHARLOTTE OF APPLES. Cut some thin slices of bread as long as a quart mould is deep, into strips about two inches wide, or into round pieces, with a cutter; butter the mould; cut one thin slice of bread as large as the bottom of your mould, dip it into clarified butter, and lay it at the bottom of the mould; dip your pieces of bread in the butter, one at a time, and as you have done them, putMADE EAST. 31 them round the sides of the mould, so that they half overlap one another, until they cover the ■ndiole of the inside; brush them over with egg, which will stick them together. Pare, cut in quarters, and core, some baking apples; put them into a stewpan with a little water, some grated lemon peel, a piece of cinnamon, and a few cloves; stew them over a slow fire till soft, and of the consistence of a marmalade; rub them through a hair sieve; then put them again into the stewpan, vinth sugar enough to sweeten them, and boil for five mi- nutes. If they taste flat, mix in the juice of a lemon, let them cool, and then fill the mould. Cover it \^■ith tart paste, and bake for an hour and a half in a mode- rate oven. CAKES AND BISCUITS. ALMOND MIXTURES. TO BLANCH ALMONDS. Set a saucepan of water on the fire, and let it boil, put in the almonds and let them boil, until you find they will skin easily, by rubbing them in your hand, or by squeezing one between your fingers; drain the watei from them and pour cold water over them, turn them out on a rough cloth or sack, double it tosrether, and rub them well with the part of the cloth you turn over them. When you think they are blanched, put them into a butchePs tray, and fan them up and down till you see most of the skins are gone over. If they arcCONFECTIONARY S2 not all blanched, pick out those that are not; rub them again, and fan them; continue this until they are finished. Let them dry in a stove or proving oven before using, and keep them dry, or they will turn sour. Use them for the following mixtures: if the keat em- ployed in drying them is too great, it will oil them, when they will be almost useless. ALMOND CAKES. One pound of sweet almonds, two pounds and a half of loaf sugar. Pound the almonds in a mortar with the sugar, ami pass it through a flour sieve. Put it in a clean pan, with the whites of ten or twelve eggs, the number will greatly depend on the dryness of the almonds and sugar, and also on the heat of the oven, beat the whole well toge- ther with a spaddle, drop two or three on a piece of wafer paper, and try them by baking; see if they are too light when baked, (that is,, if they spread too much, or open too freely) then add a little more almond and sugar, beat and sifted. Try them again, and if they are too stiflP, add a small portion of white (half or quarter the white of an egg is often too much) and beat it well up. Drop them on wafer paper that is put on clean iron plates, about the size of a walnut, an inch apart, with a pipe and bag; have a few almonds cuf in thin slices, put a few pieces on the top of eacl^ give them a slight dust with flne powdered loaf sugar and bake them in a slow oven. If you And they do not crack sufficiently in baking, wlien you put more in the oven sprinkle them liglitly witii a brush and clean water. AVhen they are cold, break the wafer paper olf round the edges. ALMOND CAKES. (No. 2.) Pound your almonds quite fine in a mortar, with the white of an egg or two, to prevent them from oiling;33 MADS SASY. then add the sugar, and beat all into a stiff paste; stir in the remainder of the whites gradually, till the mix- ture is sufficiently soft to drop off' the knife freely, with- out imparting the impression of the knife across iti Try them as before directed. Some use only two pounds of sugar to a pound of almonds; others, two pounds and a quarter, or two pounds and a half. MACAHOONS. One pound of sweet almonds, one pound and a quarter to one pound and three quarters of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and the whites of eight or ten eggs. Mix and bake them the same as you would Almond Cakes. Use the orange-flower w'ater in pounding your almonds. Omit the pieces of almond on the tup, and drop them in an oval form on iron sheets covered with wafer paper. Wet the edges of your wafer paper, to join it together. EATAFIAS. Half a pound of sweet almonds, half a pound of bit- ter almonds, two pounds of sugar, the whites of ten or twelve eggs. Mix as for Almond Cakes. Drop them on whited- brown paper, half the size of a nutmeg; see they are all of a size. Bake on iron sheets, in a slow oven. When cold they can be taken from the paper. YOKK DROPS. Blanch and dry half a pound of sweet almonds, bruise them fine in a mortar, as directed for Macaroons; add the whites of three eggs, and pound them also w'ell with the almonds; add one pound of powdered loaf sugar, and the whites of four more eggs; when well mixed, drop it on paper.in drops about the size of a pea, putS4 CONFECTIONARY them on iron or tin plates, and bake them in a warm oven: when cold, take them off the paper. ALMOND ROUT CAKES. One pound of sweet almonds, one pound of loaf sugar. Beat the almonds and sugar quite fine, and make it into a moderate stiff paste with the yolks of eggs. Make them into any shape your fancy may dictate. Use finely powdered loaf sugar to dust your board or blocks; in making them, place them on clean tins that are slightly buttered, so as not to touch each other, or lay a sheet of whited brown paper on the tin, to put them on, and dust it with loaf sugar. Let them remain in a warm place all night, or a day and a night, before they are baked. Put them in a brisk oven; when lightly i'ijioured over, they are done. Ornament them with nonpariels, candied peel, drops and comfits, when making them, while the paste is moist, or after they are baked. Make a mucilage of gum- arabic, and lay it, with a small brush, over the parts where you wish the nonpariels to adhere, and otherwise ornament them with piping. If you wish to cut your paste out of blocks, put it in a stewpan over the fire; keep stirring it with a spoon or spaddle; stir it well from the bottom. When you find the paste does not stick to the sides of the pan and come all together, it is done. Let it get cold be- fore you cut it out. When they are made in this way, the impression shows much better. ALMOND ROCKS. One pound of sweet almonds, two pounds of loaf Qugar, a pound and a half of sweet almonds cut in alioea.MADK EASY. 35 Beat the almonds that are not sliced^ and the sugar, together in a mortar, and pass it all through a hour sieve. Put the whites of seven or eight eggs into a middling-sized pan, and whisk them up to a very strong froth. Stir in sufficient of your almonds and sugar to make it into a moderate stiff paste, adding also your sliced almonds; form it into small heaps with your hn- gers, the required size; mind you do not press the heaps together too tight; but let them be rather loose, especially on the top. Cover some tins with wafer paper, and lay them on it, an inch and a half apart. Bake them in a cool oven, and leave open the door, the greatest part of the time that they are baking; when they are of a nice pale brown, they are done. The oven requires to be cooler for these than for Almond Cakes. If these are managed properly they will have a pretty Tippearance. • RoCK BISCUITS. Break the whites of three eggs into a pan, and stir them together with a whisk till they break; cut some blanched, but not dried, sweet almonds into long thin slices, and put them, with an ounce of candied orange peel cut small, and one ounce of finely powdered loaf sugar, to the eggs: and mix it all well up together with a spoon, adding more almonds and sugar to make it hang together, if required. Put white wafer-paper on your iron plates, and lay the mixture on it in biscuits about the size of a half-crown piece, but piled about an inch to an inch and a half high. Bake them in a slack oven, of a nice light colour. RED ROCK BISCUITS. - Mix up sliced almonds, whites of eggs, and sugar, as directed for Rock Biscuits, and colour it with a little cochineal. Make it into biscuits as before directed, and bake them in a very slack oven You must leave out the orange peel. DCONFECTIONAKY 36 EASPBERKY BISCUITS. Three pounds of stale or broken almona goods, such as Macaroons, Eatafias, or Almond Cakes, and one pound of common Biscuits, or some stale Sponge Cakes. Beat this mixture fine in a clean mortar, and pass it through a sieve; put it again in the mortar, and beat it into a moderate stiff paste with the yolks of eggs. Roll it out into a sheet about one-eighth of an incli thick, to any size you please; spread a thin layer of raspberry jam; roll out another sheet the same size and thickness as the former, lay it on the top; then cut it in pieces, with a knife and straight edge, about three inches long by an inch or inch and a half wide; put over, a layer of rather thin iceing, made with the white of egg, and loaf sugar dust, (see iceing for Rich Cakes), spread it on as evenly as you can; then separate them, and lay them off on a tin that is covered with wafer paper, an inch apart. Bake them in a cool oven with the door open; when the iceing is of a pale delicate brown, they, are done. If your iceing is too thin, it will run down the sides, and disfigure them; and if the reverse, it will all scale off after they are baked. RASPBERRY BISCUITS, (No. 2.) Instead of using the almond goods, and biscuits, or sponge cakes, take as follows:—One pound of sweet almonds, two pounds of loaf sugar, and one pound of biscuits, or Hour, and proceed as before. ALMOND BREAD. As directed for Almond Cakes—pound in a mortar, as fine as you can, a quarter of a pound of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter, almonds: break an egg into a cup, and add half of it to the almonds in the mortar; then grind again, till the almonds are perfectly fine;, should they appear to be getting oily while vou are grinding37 MADE Easy. them, add a little more egg. Rub half the peel of a lemon upon nine ounces of loaf sugar, till all the yel- low skin is grated off, crush your sugar to powder, and mix it among the almonds; then mix in as many yolks of eggs as will make it into a softish batter; then put in one ounce of flour, and mix it all well together. Bake it in a warm oven, in a buttered tin, let the tin be about two inches deep as the cake is apt to rise over, or bake it in a paper case of the same depth. As this is often mixed with the rout cakes, you must cut it when cold into different forms, ornament them by iceing them over and sprinkling them with nonpa- nels, or with any other ornament, or by piping them. POUND CAKES AND DROPS. POUND CAKES. One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of eggs, and a pound and a quarter of flour. Put the butter into a clean pan that is sufficiently arge for your purpose. Place it in the oven, and let vhe pan remain until blood warm. Take it out, and ivith your hand stir the butter round the sides until It is reduced to a smooth cream. Then add the su- gar, and stir both together, for a few minutes; break your eggs into the pan gradually, stirring them con- tinually, until you have them all in. Beat the whole well together, for five minutes; then add your flour and other ingredients, stir it in lightly, and fill the hoops. In summer, should the weather be hot, the butter and pan need not be warmed, as it will cream without; in the winter, do not take it too far from the oven or38 CONFECTIONARY fire, or it will chill, which will cause it to set, and make the cake heavy; and, above all, get it into the hoop quickly, and into the oven as soon as ready. The oren should be warm, but not too hot. The heat of the oven must be regulated according to the size of the cake. Large cakes are generally baked in the evening, after the oven has been used the greater part of the day. Paper the bottom and side of the hoops with white demy or common writing paper. If the cake is large, put four or five pieces of stout cartridge paper round the sides of the hoop, and put it on a tin. Spread some sawdust over a flat tin an inch or two deep, and put the tin w'ith the cake on it. Put some sawdust also round the outside of your hoop, and set it in the oven. To know when it is done, thrust a small wooden skewer into it, and if it is dry when taken out, it is done; if sticky, it must be baked longer. POUND CAKES. (No. 2.) The quantities of the ingredients used may be as fol- lows: One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, a pound and a quarter of eggs, (about ten or eleven) one pound six ounces of flour. Make as the preceding. CURRANT CAKE. To the ingredients for Pound Cakes, for either of the K)i-egoing receipts, add a pound and a half or two pounds of clean currants, half a pound of cut peel, and a quarter of an ounce of mixed spices. RICH CAKE, OR WEDDING CAKE. To the ingredients for Pound Cakes, as first directed, add two pounds and a half of currants, a quarter of a pound each of candied citron, orange, and lemon peeis, not cut too small, three ounces of blanched almonds cut in slices, or part of tKera whole, two grated nutmecs, a quarter of an ounce of mLxed spices,, and a wine-glass- ful of good brandy.MADE EAST. 3<J SEED CAKE. To either of the mixtures for Pound Cakes, add a few carraway seeds. ICEING FOR RICH CAKKS, &C. Put the whites of three or four eggs into a deep glazed pan, quite free from the least grease, and mix in gradually one pound of good loaf sugar that has been powdered and sifted through a lawn sieve, till it is as thick as good rich cream; then beat it up with a wooden spoon until it becomes thick; add the juice of a lemon strained, and beat it again till it hangs to the spoon; then with the spoon drop some on the top of the cake, and with a clean knife smooth it well over the top and sides about an eighth of an inch thick; then put it in a dry place, and it will be dry in a few hours. Ornament it while wet, if it is required to be ornamented, by sticking figures of sugar or plaster on it, or candied peel, or angelica, and drop coloured sugar or millions, to fancy; or when it is diy, you may ornament it with pippin paste, gum paste; piping, or paint it. ALMOND ICEING, OR ALMOND PASTE. One pound of sweet almonds, a pound of loaf sugar: or, one pound of sweet almonds, and three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Mix them as for Almond cakes, and when the cake is full three parts done, lay on your iceing, or mix as for llout cakes, and spread it over the top after it is baked and cold, and dry it in the stove or proving oven, queen's cakes. Set half a pound of fresh butter in an earthenware pan neaf the oven to soften gradually, but be careful that it does not oil, then beat it and work it well with the hand till it is like fine thick smooth cream: add to40 CONFECTIONARY it half a pound of finely powdered loaf sugar, and work it well into the butter for a minute or two; put in four eggs, and a table-spoonful of water, and beat them together for two minutes; then lightly mix in ten ounces of flour, and two ounces of nicely washed currants. Butter some small round tins, put your cake into them, and bake them in a brisk oven; when done, and half cold, you can take them out of the tins, by holding them upside down and gently knocking the bottoms. queen’s drops. Soften, and work with the hand, till like cre^m, as directed for Queen’s Cakes, half a pound of fresh but- ter; put to it eight ounces of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and beat them together for about a minute; break in four eggs, and beat it again for two minutes; then lightly mix in three quarters of a pound of good fiour, four ounces of nicely washed currants, and half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. When well mixed, make it into drops about as large as a w^alnut, upon paper on iron plates, and bake them in a hot oven. SPONGE MIXTURES. SAVOY CAKES. Break five eggs into a pan, and put with them ten ounces of powdered loaf sugar, and whisk all together over a slow fire, until it is rather more than milk warm, then remove it from the fire, but continue whisking till cold, when it should become thick. Mix in by degrees eight ounces of fine dry cold flour, and the peel of one middling-sized lemon, rubbed on sugar, or a few drops of the essence of lemon. When well mixed, fill twoMADE EAST. 41 pints or one quart mould, and bake it in a warm oven; when done, it will be firm and dry on the top. Before you fill the mgulds, you must warm a little butter and butter your moulds, then sift as much loaf sugar into them as will stick to the butter; give the mould a knock, so as to take off all that does not stick; dust in a little flour, and serve in the same manner, tie a strip of paper round the top of the mould, so as to be an inch higher than the edge, for they are apt to run over when the cake rises. SPONGE BISCUITS Are made the same as Savoy cakes; only make them in small tins, and bake them in a hot oven. • * SAVOY BISCUITS, Are made in exactly the same manner as described for*Savoy cakes, using equal quantities of egg, sugar, and flour. When thoroughly mixed, shape it into nar- row biscuits, from three to four inches long, with a bag and funnel, on a clean sheet of paper; then turn them upon another sheet of paper, upon which you have spread sifted loaf sugar, so as to sugar the tops; turn them back again on iron plates, and bake them in a hot oven. When done, wet the paper, take them off: and put two together. SAVOY DROPS. Savoy Drops are made the same as Savoy Cakes; only drop them in small round or oval drops; sugar the tops, and bake as directed for Savoy biscuits. nelson’s balls, or cup cakes. Butter some common tea-cups, and sift some loaf sugar into them upon the butter, then put a few nicely washed currants at the bottom of each cup; half fill them with a batter made as directed for Savoy Cake. Bake them in a brisk oven; w^hen done, take them out of the cups, and place them with the currants upwards.42 CONFECTIONARY LORD mayor’s cakes. Break four eggs into a pan, and add eight ounces of powdered sugar to them, whisk them together well, as for Savoy Cakes, then mix in lightly half a pound of the best flour, and a few carraway seeds; this is best done with a spoon. Make it into round drop cakes about two inches across, upon sheets of paper, on your iron plate, sift sugar over the tops, and bake them in a brisk oven. When done, cut them off the paper; and put two together with their tops outwards. Some peo- ple sprinkle carraway seeds on them, instead of sugar, before baking. DIET BREAD CAKE. Put six eggs, and the yolks of six more, into a deep earthen pan or pipkin, just whisk them a little, so as to break the yolks, and make it one colour all over. In another pipkin, or clean saucepan, put one pound of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint of water; put it on the fire, and keep stirring it till it nearly boils, then pour it gradually upon the eggs, whisking them well all the while, and keep whisking all together till quite cold; then mix in very lightly, but thoroughly, one pound of fine dry cold flour. Put clean paper so as to cover the inside of your tins, and rise an inch above them all round; put in your paste, sift loaf sugar on the tops, and bake in a warm oven, till they are firm at top. Or, in preference, fill the tin half or three parts full of the mixture for Savoy Biscuits, and bake as before. SWEET, OR DIET BREAD RUSKS. Cut a diet bread cake into slices half an inch thick, place them upon iron plates and put them m a very hot oven, so that they may nrown quickly; as soon as they are coloured on one side, turn them, and brown on the other, when they are done.MiDE EASY. 43 CAKES AND BUNS. GINGER CAKES. • Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into half a pound* of flour, mix one egg, three ounces of powdered loaf sugar, and half an ounce of ground ginger, with the butter and flour, and make them all together into a paste; roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it into round cakes, about two or three inches across; bake them in a warm oven, on iron plates. * BUNS. Into a pound and a half of well-dried flour rub four ounces of moist sugar; warm a quarter of a pint of milk about blood warm, but not hot enough to scald the yeast; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put in a quarter of a tea-cupful, or thereabout, of good thick yeast, which is not too bitter, or it will taste in the buns; pour on it your warm milk, and mix about one third, or nearly half, of the flour with it, leaving the rest unmixed round the sides of the pan. Set it in a warm place to rise, for three quarters of an hour, or an hour. When it has well risen, melt a quarter of a pound of butter, and mix it with some milk, let it be on the fire until it is about blood warm, and then mix it with the rest of the flour and sugar into a dough. ■When mixed, it should be rather softer than bread dough. Put it to rise for about a quarter of an hour, and then mould them into round balls under the hand^; put them on buttered iron plates, and then into a warm place to rise or prove; when well risen, bake them in aCONFECTIONARY 44 a hot oven. If you wush to have currants or carraway seeds and spice in them, mix in either of these when you add the butter and milk. The spice to be used is equal quantities of ground ginger, allspice, coriander, and carra'ways, mixed together; put as much of this as you think sufficient. When they are baked enough, brush them over with egg and water, mixed together, to give them a gloss. SAFFRON BUNS. Make the dough for them the same as for plain buns. Put a little of the best saffron in a tea-cup, and pour over it a little boiling water; let it stand on-the top of the oven, to extract the flavour; and when you put in the butter, mix in as much of the saffron water as will make the dough of a bright yellow colour. Bake them as before directed. You may put in a few cur- rants, but saffron buns are seldom spiced. BATH BUNS. ]\Iake a hole in the middle of a pound of flour, and put in half a tablespoouful of good thick yeast; warm half a tea-cupful of milk about blood-warm, and pour it upon the yeast; mix them up with about one third of the flour, and let it stand for about three quarters of an hour, or an hour, to rise. When it has risen, put in six ounces of cold butter, and break in four eggs, add a few carraway seeds, and mix all together, along with the rest of the flour. Set it in a warm place to rise, for a short time, then put it on your paste board, and flatten it with your hand. Sift six ounces of loaf sugar, about the size of peas, and sprinkle it over the dough: roll or chop it together, a little, to mix the sugar; then put it in a warm place, in the pan, to rise, for about a quarter of an hour: make it into buns, by laying them on a buttered iron plate with a spoon or knife as rough as you can; sift some sugar on the tops, put half a dozen comfits on each, and just sprinkleMADE EAST. 4n them with water with a paste brush, to slightly melt the sugar, and give them a gloss; prove them a little before baking; bake them in a pretty hot oven. For Bath Buns your butter must not be melted. REGENCY BUNS. Make them the same as Bath buns, only instead of putting in carraway seeds with the sugar, add a little candied peel, a few currants, a tea-spoonful of pow- dered allspice; and do not put any comfits on the top. REGENCY BUNS. (No. 2.) Three pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one pound of currants, spice and peel as before, use part yolk instead of eggs, and wash them with yolk. Pro- ceed as before, using milk, &c. in proportion. • TEA-BUNS. Make a hole in the middle of a pound of flour, in a pan, put in a desert spoonful of yeast, and pour upon it half a tea-cupful of milk warmed as for buns; mix it iro with about one third of the flour, leaving the rest rour.d the sides of the pan, and put it in a warm place to rise. When it has well risen, put in half a pound of butter, (not melted) ten yolks of eggs, and two whites, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; mix all well together with your hand. Put it into buttered tea-cups, filling them half full; set them to rise, till nearly full; and bake them in a hot oven. SALLY LUN TEA OR BREAKFAST CAKES. Itlake a hole in the middle of one pound of flour in a pan, put in half a table-spoonful of good thick yeast, (not bitter,) pour in a quarter of a pint of milk, warmed as for buns, mix it up with a part of the flour, and set it to rise. When it has risen, put an ounce and a half of butter, one ounce of sugar, and a little milk, over a46 CONFECTIONARY slow fire; while this is melting, break four eggs, and put the yolks, with half a teaspoonful of salt, into the fiom- and yeast; when the butter and milk are luke- Avarm, mix them with the other ingredients, and make all into a softish dough. Butter some cake hoops, and put them on buttered iron plates; fill the hoops about one inch deep, and set them in a warm place to rise. When quite light, bake them in a warm oven. CUSTARDS AND BAKED PUDDINGS. BOILED ALMOND CUSTARDS. Put four bay leaves, with a little cinnamon, a pint of ci’eam and a pint of milk, into a clean saucepan over a a slow fire, till they boil. While this is doing, grate twelve bitter and twice as many sweet almonds into a basin, break in four eggs and eight yolks of eggs, one at a time into a teacup, and as you find them good, put them into a basin; mix in sufficient loaf sugar in pow- der to sweeten it to your palate, whisk all well together, and when the milk boils, take it off the fire for a minute or two, before you pour it in; mix it well with the whisk, and strain it through a hair sieve into the sauce- pan that the cream was boiled in. Put it again on the fire, which must be slow, and stir it well till it begins to thicken, (it must not boil, or you will spoil it,) re- move it from the fire, and keep stirring it well till it is cool, otherwise it may curdle. As soon as it is cold, you can put it into the glasses or cups; grate a little nutmeg on the top of each. BAKED ALMOND CUSTARDS. Put a pint of cream, a jiint of milk, four bay leaves,47 MADE EASY. and a piece of cinnamon, into a clean stew-pan, over a slow fire until they boil. You may, if you wish, add some grated nutmeg and lemon peel. While this is doing, break eight eggs into a pan, and grate into it twelve bitter and twenty four sweet almonds, or more, if it does not taste sufficiently of the almonds, and mix in enough powdered loaf sugar to sweeten it; pour in the milk and cream, and whisk all well together. Strain it through a hair sieve; if their should be any froth on the top, skim it ofi", put it into your custard-cups, grate a little nutmeg on the tops of them, and bake them in a warm oven: they will he done as soon as they are set. If you wish to have a plain custard, leave out the almonds. A CHEAP CUSTARD, TO BAKE OR BOIL. Get a quart of new milk, a small piece of cinnamon, and a few coriander seeds, and boil together; break five or six eggs into a pan, with five ounces of powdered loaf sugar; or sweeten to palate; whisk them up a little, and pour in the milk nearly boiling hot. If it is to be baked, whisk them well together, and strain it into a dish. If it is to be boiled, proceed as before directed. A little orange-flower water may be used to flavour them. CUSTARD PUDDINGS. Fill a dish with custard made as directed for Baked Custards, and add about two ounces of butter, put an edging of puff paste round the dish, grate some nutmeg on the custard, and bake it in a moderate oven till it sets. WHOLE RICE PUDDING. Boil, in a quart of milk, rather more than five ounces of rice, till it is soft, stirring it now and then, to pre- vent its sticking to the bottom of the saucepan and burning. Break five large eggs into a basin, and whiskCONFECTIONARY 48 them well up, add a little nutmeg and cinnamon, with the peel of a lemon, grated, to your milk and rice, with three ounces of butter, as much sugar as will sweeten it, and, if you wish, a few currants that have been washed, and the stones picked from them; mix all well together. Put a rim of puff paste round the edge of your dish, pour in your pudding, and let it bake lu a warm oven till set. A SOUFFLE OF W'HOLE RICE. Line a mould with thin tart paste, and put in some bread to keep the paste in its proper place; bake it till the paste is firm, or make one large or several small paper cases with the sides high enough to prevent the soufie rising over. Put a pint of milk into a stewpan, with two ounces of rice, a stick of cinnamon and a piece of lemon peel tied up in a cloth; boil it gently till the rice is tender, stirring it now and then, to keep the rice from burning to the bottom. When the rice is done, add to it an ounce of butter, enough sugar to sweeten it, half a wine-glassful of brandy; with the yolks of four eggs, when the whole is well mixed, let it cool. Whisk up to a strong froth the whites of six eggs; take the lemon peel and cinnamon from the rice and milk; add the whisked w'hites and mix lightly with it, and when all is nicely mixed, half or three quarters fill the mould. Sift sugar over the top, and bake it. Send it to table m\. mediately it is taken out of the oven or it will smk. SOUFFLE OF GROUND RICE. Put two ounces of ground rice into a clean stew-pan with a pint of milk, and boil them until quite thick, keeping them constantly stirred to prevent their burn- ing, add to it the yolks of four eggs, half a pound of sugar, two ounces of butter, and a pinch of salt, stir the whole well together and set it aside to cool, when you want to bake it, whisk up the whites of eight eggs to a very strong iroch and mix them with it, put it into allaUE EASY. 49 mould or case, sift powdered loaf sugar over the top, and bake it in a moderate quick oven; these may be flavored ’ with any sort of essence. MILLET PUDDING. Millet pudding is made as directed for Whole Rice Piidding, excepting that, instead of rice, you must put in the same quantity of millet seeds. GROUND RICE PUDDING. Pound fine in a mortar twelve bitter and twenty-four . sweet almonds; break four eggs into a basin, and whisk them to a froth; grate the peel of a lemon, some nut- meg, and cinnamon. When these are all ready, put a quart of milk into a stew-pan, with a quarter of a pound of ground rice, and put it on a slow fire; keep stirring it till it thickens; then take it from the fire, and put in it two ounces of butter, with your almonds, eggs, and spice, and as much loaf sugar in powder as will sweeten it; if you wish, you may add a few nicely washed currants. Put an edging of puff paste round your dish, pour the pudding in, and bake it in a warm oven till it sets. It will improve it to add a wine-glass- ful of brandy with the spice. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Cut some very thin slices of bread and butter from a French roll. Make some custard, by boiling in a pint of milk two bay-leaves and a piece of cinnamon; whisk up four eggs to a strong froth, and add sugar enough to sweeten it; pour in the boiling milk, and whisk it up well. Let it stand till cool. Cover the bottom of a deep dish with slices of bread and butter, and sprinkle a few currants over them, then pour in enough custard to cover them, put in another layer of bread and but- ter, and currants, pour in custard enough to cover it, and so on, till the dish is full, let it stand for about an hour, when the bread will have soaked up some of the50 CONFEtrtloNARY custard; then fill the dish with the remaining part, sprinkle a tew eurrants on the top; put an edge of puff paste round the dish if you think fit, and bake it in a moderate oven till the eu^tard sets. BREAD PUDDING. Cut the crust from the stale French rolls as thin as you can, and break the crumb into a basin; boil a pint and a third of a pint of milk, and pour over it while hot, set it by, covered over, for the bread to soak. Whisk up to a froth, five eggs, and if your bread is soaked, add them to it, and beat all together till quite smooth. Mix in some grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, a few cur- rants, and three tablespoonfuls of brandy. You may either boil or bake it. To boil it, butter a mould, put in the pudding, cover it over, and put it into boiling water: when done, send it to table hot, with wine sauce, If you bake it, butter your dish, you may edge it with pujf paste or not, as you think fit, and bake it m a brisk oven. It is best eaten hot. A RATAFIA PUDDING. Put enough water into a stewpan to come rather more than half as high as a three-pint mould, of what- ever shape you please, and put it on a slow fire. Then take the mould out of the water, and butter the inside well; stick raisins that have been stoned, and dried cherries, upon the butter, to make it look ornamental; put ratafias so as to cover the whole of the inside of the mould; cut six penny sponge cakes in half, and put them in, mixing a few ratafias and dried cherries among them; then put in ratafias till the mould is about three parts full. When this is done, whisk up seven large or eight small eggs just so as to break the yolks, and pour upon them a pint and a half of boiling milk; put sugar enough to sweeten it, and mix all well together with the whisk, and pour into the mould. Tie a cloth over the mould, or put the cover on, and put it into theMADE EASY. 51 water that is boiling in the stewpan. It will take rather more than an hour to boil, turn it out on a dish, pour wine once over it, and send some in a boat with it. It must be sent to table as hot as possible and is eaten with wine sauce. TO MAKE WINE SAUCE. Into a elean saucepan put two ounces of butter, put it on the fire, and when melted rub half a tablespoonful of flour into it until it is quite smooth; mix in by de- grees a wine glassful of water, half a wine glassful of brandy, and two wine-glassfuls of white wine, with enough moist sugar to sweetfen it; mix these together, put them on the fire, and keep stindng in till thick, (it ought not to boil) pour it into a sauceboat, and send to table hot. A SOUFFLE PUDDING. . Prepare a quart mould with butter and raisins, as for Ratafia Pudding. Cut nine penny sponge cakes in pieces, and put them into the mould. Then whisk together six eggs, so as to break the yolks, pour upon them a pint of boiling milk, and enough sugar to sweeten it; strain it through a sieve into the mould. Cover the mould, and boil, and send it hot to table with wine sauce, as directed for Ratafia Pudding. MUFFIN, FRENCH ROLL, OR CABINET PUDDINGS, Are made the same as a Ratafia pudding, garnish- ing the mould with dried cherries and raisins, but instead of using sponge cakes and ratafias, put muffins pulled to pieces, or the crumb of French rolls; put in some sweetmeats, as currants, raisins, or dried cherries mixed among them, in the mould. When you boil the milk, put in a bay leaf, a stick of cinnamon, and sugar enough to sweeten it, adding rather more than for the ratafia pudding, as the sponge cakes and ratifias being sweet, do not require so much.CuNFECTIONAKY A. cabinet pudding is also occasionally made with stale sponge or savoy cakes, or some of either of these ami French roll mixed together. A LEMON PUDDING. Put eight penny sponge cakes broken in pieces, into a basin, and break in three ounces of butter, with the peel of four lemons, grated. JBoil a pint and a third of a pint of milk, and pour it on the cake; let it soak w'hile you break three eggs and the yolks of five more, into a basin, and whisk them together a little. Now beat up the milk and cake with a fork, till smooth, add your eggs, the juice of one lemon and the third of another, with sugar enough to sweeten it to your palate, and an ounce and a quarter of candied lemon peel in slices; mix all well together, put it into a dish, and bake it in a warm oven till it is set. A MARROW PUDDING, Chop half the marrow of a beef bone, take out the largest of the pieces, and then chop up the rest very small. Put it into a basin, and mix it into a quarter of a pound of stale diet bread cake, or, if you have it, savoy cake; boil a pint of milk, ]iour it upon the cake, and set it by to soak. Break three eggs into a basin, and whisk them to a froth. By this time the cake will be soaked; beat it quite smooth, give the eggs another slight whisk, and pour them into the cake; add a few currants, some candied orange and lemon peel cut in pieces, about a quarter of a nutmeg, half the peel of a lemon grated, and sugar sufficient to sweeten it. Put it into your dish, lay the pieces of marrow that you have saved out, on the top, with a few currants, and citron or lemon peel cut in very thin slices, and bake it m a warm oven. Putting an edging of puff paste round the dishes, makes your puddings look ornamental, but it is old- fashioned, and should only be used as a variety..<5S MADE EASY. ORANGE PUDDING. Pare the rind very thin from two China oranges, so as not to get more of the white than you are obliged, and put it into a mortar. Break two penny sponge cakes into a basin: scoop out the insides of the oranges into a sieve which you have placed over the basin: rub the juice, and as much of the pulp as you possibly can through the sieve, upon the cakes, and let them soak. Pound the rinds of the oranges very fine in a mortar, mix them with four more sponge cakes crumbled, and soak them in two thirds of a pint of milk. Beat up the cakes that are along with the juice and pulp, and then mix all well together. Whisk up two eggs, and three yolks of eggs to a froth, and put them to the cake, with an ounce and a half of candied orange peel cut in small pieces, and sugar sufficient to sweeten it; mix all lightly together, and put it into a dish. Bake it in.a moderate oven. You may garnish the top with candied orange peel cut in thin slices. BAKED APPLE PUDDING. Slice into a stewpan six large apples, which you have pared and cored, put to them a tea-cupful of water, and stew them till tender: pour the water from them; then beat them quite smooth in a basin; add about three parts of a tea-cupful of stale bread crumbs, and sweeten the whole with powdered loaf sugar. Whisk up two eggs and the yolks of two more, and add them, with some grated lemon peel and nutmeg, a little candied lemon peel cut in small pieces; and an ounce of butter. Line a dish with puff paste, and put an edging of puff paste round it; put the apples in the middle, with candied lemon peel or citron, cut in thin slices on the top, and bake it in a warm oven. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Put a pint of milk into a stewpan and let it boil.54 CONFKCTION'ART then add two ounces of vermicelli; pare the rind of half a lemon very thin, and tie it up in a piece of clean cloth, with a small piece of cinnamon, and put them into the milk; let all simmer or boil gently over a slow tire, until the vermicelli has soaked up at least half the milk. Whisk up three eggs to a froth, and add them, with a little nutmeg grated, and an ounce of butter, a wine glassful of brandy, and sugar enough to sweeten it. Take out the spice-bag; and you can either boil it for half an hour in a mould, as directed for Ratafia Pudding, or bake it in a dish. If boiled, it will re- quire wine sauce. • CARROT PUDDING. Boil some carrots till tender, taking care that they are all good ones, rub six ounces of them through a hair sieve. Put three penny sponge cakes into a basin, and pour upon them a teacupful and a half of boiling milk. Whisk up six eggs to a froth; and then beat the milk and cake smooth. Mix the carrots, eggs, and cake together, with six ounces of butter, a wine-glassful and a half of brandy, and enough loaf sugar to sweeten it. Put it into a dish, garnish the top with candied orange or lemon peel cut in thin slices, and bake it in a w'arm oven. If you think fit, you may put a rim of puff paste round the edge of the dish; or ornament it with leaves of puff paste, or with slices of candied peel. TAPIOCA PUDDING. Put two ounces of tapioca into a mortar, and pound it quite line; put it in a stewpan with a piut of milk, and simmer it gently, which will soften it to a pulp. Whisk to a froth three eggs and two yolks of eggs; add to them an ounce of butter, half a glass of brandy, sugar enough to sweeten your pudding, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix this with the tapioca while hot, put it into a dish, and bake in a warm oven.55 JIA.UE EASY. ALMOND PUDDING. Pound four ounces of sweet or three ounces of sweet and one of bitter almonds fine in a mortar, with one- third of an ounce of tapioca adding a little cream or milk, to prevent the almonds oiling. Put into a basin three penny sponge cakes and two thirds of a pint of milk, and a wine-glassful and a half of brandy. Whisk up to a froth, four large eggs, or five small ones; beat up your sponge cakes smooth; then mix all lightly toge- ther, and add a teaspoonful and a half of the curd made as directed for cheesecakes, but without spice or sweet- meats, two ounces of butter, and enough sugar to sweeten it. When well mixed, put it into a dish, garn- ish the top with almonds cut in slices, and bake it in a warm oven. CREAMS. LEMON CREAM. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a small stew- pan, with about three quarters of a tea-cupful of milk; to do this, put them over a slow fire to simmer, occa- sionally stirring it till all is dissolved; then strain it into a teacup, through a fine sieve. Rub three or four lemons upon loaf sugar till the peel or yellow rind is all off, scrape the sugar into a large basin or pan; add the juice of two small or one large lemon, and three quarters of a pint of good cream; whisk it up briskly till it is a thick froth, and hangs to the sides of the basin or pan; put in sugar to your palate, and then add your isinglass, which should be nearly cold; mix all together, and con- tinue stirring it with the whisk until it begins to set, thenCONFECTIONARY 56 put it into a mould. Turn it out into a dish, by dipping the mould into warm water, and garnish the edge with slices of lemon placed round it to fancy. The top of the mould may be ornamented with jelly which should be quite cold and set before the cream is poured in. MILLE-FRUIT CREAM, Mille-fruit cream is made the same as Lemon Cream, excepting, that you should colour the isinglass with a little cochineal, (see Colourings for Confectionary), and just before it sets, put in a few dried cherries, preserved green gages, or any other preserved fruit, and a little candied orange-peel cut in pieces. ITALIAN CREAM. Dissolve as directed for Lemon Cream, half an ounce of isinglass in three-quarters of a tea-cupful of water. Rub a lemon and an orange upon sugar, until the peel is all grated off, scrape this off and put it into a pan or basin; add the juice of one lemon, and half the juice of another., with a wine glassful of brandy, and three quar- ters of a pint of good cream: whisk all to a strong froth, and add sufficient powdered loaf sugar to sweeten it. Put in your isinglass, and mix it well. When it begins to set, put it into a mould, and turn it out when set, which will be in about an hour. RASPBERRY CREAM. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in three-quarters of a tea-cupful of water, as directed for Lemon Cream. Put six or eight ounces of raspberry jam into a sieve fine enough to prevent the seeds from going through, place it over a large basin, and rub the jam through into another basin: put in the juice of half a lemon, and three quarters of a pint of good cream; whisk them to a strong froth, and then mix it lightly into your jam; add sifted loaf sugar to your palate and then your isinglass not quite cold, stir them well together, andMADE EASY. 57 when it begins to set, put it into a mould. Turn it out when set, as the mould, especially a tin one, is apt to discolour it. If you wish it of a deeper colour, mix a little cochi- neal colour, (see Colourings for Confectionary), with the isinglass, or cream. STRAWBERRY CREAM, Is made the same as Raspberry Cream, only that, straw- berry jam must be used instead of raspberry, and it should not be of quite so deep a colour. BARBERRY-CREAM. Put three quarters of a pint of cream into a pan, with the juice of a small lemon, whisk them to a strong froth. Put six or eight ounces of barberry jelly into a basin, and stir the cream lightly into it, with half an ounce of isinglass dissolved as for Lemon Cream. If required, put in a little powdei’ed loaf sugar,- mix all together, and put it into a mould. When set, turn it out into a dish; garnish with preserved barberries. If you wish it of a deeper colour, mix a little chochi- neal, (see Colourings for Confectionary), with the cream. APRICOT CREAM. Pound six bitter almonds fine in a mortar, and rub six ounces of apricot jam through a fine sieve into a basin. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in water, as directed for Lemon Cream. Mix your almonds and jam together. Whisk to a strong froth three quarters of a pint of good cream, and stir it lightly into your jam: if not sweet enough, add powdered loaf sugar. Mix in the isinglass, not quite cold. When it begins to set, put it into a mould; it will be fit to turn out in an hour. PINE-APPLE CREAM. 1 Rub six or eight ounces of pine-apple jam through a fine sieve into a basin. Put tliree rjuartcrs of a pint ofCONFECTIONARY 58 good cream into another large basin, with the juice of a small lemon, and whisk them to a strong froth: stir them into the jam gently. Mix in half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in water as directed for Lemon Cream. When it begins to set, put it into a mould, and when quite set, turn it into a dish. RATAFIA CREAM. Dissolve, as directed for Lemon Cream, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a tea-cupful of milk. Break very fine, and sift through a coarse sieve, four ounces of ratafia cakes. Or, pound an ounce of bitter almonds with some sugar. In a large basin, whisk very quickly, till of a light strong froth, half a pint of good cream, and add to it your cake or almonds; when mixed, put in your isinglass, and stir it well up. When it begins to set, put it into a mould, and when set, which will be in an hour, turn it out. In making these creams, rather more isinglass should be used in summer than in winter, unless you have the convenience of putting them in ice, but do not use so much as to make the cream quite hard, there is only required a sufficient quantity to set it, so that it may eat soft and smooth, and melt in the mouth when eaten; keep the cream also, in as cool a place as possible, until it is required for use, and be careful, that you do not turn it into butter, by whipping it too much. MOCK-ICE, Is made of lemon, raspberry, or strawberry cream, put into ice moulds or glasses, in a rough manner, to imi- tate ice. WHIPPED OR WHISKED CREAMS. These are made nearly in the same manner as set creams, with the exception of the dissolved isinglass. Use about the same proportions. Whip the cream to a strong froth, which you take off as it rises, with a small skimmer, and place on a sieveMADE EASY. 59 to drain. Get sufficient to put on the top of each glass, rill your glasses with the remainder of the cream, and put your whipped cream, or froth, on the top. Keep them in a cool place. ICE CREAMS. Any of the creams just described may be frozen when they are not mixed with isinglass. For this purpose provide some pewter ice pots, put the cream which you intend to freeze in them, and put on the cover with a piece of folded paper at the edge to keep it firm, then place the pot in a pail, and surround it with pounded ice, mixed with salt, keep turning it round briskly by means of the handle, open the pot every five or six minutes, and scrape down the creams which has frozen to the sides, and stir it well together, when it, is like butter, put it into moulds, and place them in fresh ice and salt, or serve it in glasses. Fruit ices may also be made with water instead of cream, by using about two pounds of fresh fruit and a pint of syrup, to a pint of wa- ter, or one pound of preserved fruit, to a pint of water. Chocolate, coffee,* ginger, vanilla, noyeau, and other licquer ices, are made with custard, fiavoured with either of those articles, and frozen as the others, when cold. For the particulars of each sort of ice, and a more detailed account of the method of freezing them, see the Guide to Trade, the Confectioner C. Knight & Co. Ludgate Street, in which will be found Receipts for above sixty different sorts of ices, including ice pudding, and Punch a la Romaine, • Ice or other coifee creams should be made from fresh coffee, when it has a finer, and more beautiful flavour.CONFECTIONiKl CjU JELLIES. calf’s foot jelly. Be particularly careful that every thing used in. making jelly is quite clean, or it will be impossible to get it clear, and of a good colour, or to obtain that delicacy of flavour for which it is so much esteemed. A jelly bag should be made of thick flannel, cut into a long half diamond shape; sew the two longest sides together, and then sew the open end to a hoop, which will make it into the shape of a long funnel, but leave no opening at the point. Carefully wash two calf s feet, cut them in pieces, and boil them gently in two quarts and a pint of water, till a spoonful of the liquor will set in a few minutes when taken into a cool place; this will take two, or per- haps three hours. Then strain off" the liquor, and care- fully take away all the fat from the top. This will be easiest done the next day, when cold; but if you want it immediately, skim off as much of it as you can with a skimmer, and then draw strips of writing paper slowly across the top, till you have soaked up all the fat, and the paper appears without grease spots. Add to the liqour a quarter of a pint of white wine (sherry is the best), enough loaf sugar to sweeten it, and the juice of four lemons, which you must strain in. Whisk the whites of three eggs in a basin or pan, so as to well mix them, and add your liquor to them a little at a time, whisking all the while. Put it into a clean stewpan, add the rind of two or three lemons pared off very thin, a small piece of cinnamon, a few corianderMADE EASY. G1 seeds, and if agreeable, a few allspice. Place it over the fire and stir it occasionally, but stir it well when it is on the point of boiling, to prevent the eggs from curdling, or the jelly will not be bright. Boil it for four or five minutes, pour it gently into a jelly-bag, which you must hang at a moderate distance from the fire, so that the jelly will not get cold and set; let it strain through into a basin, and if it does not run clear, strain it over again. Perhaps it will not at first run clear for a few minutes, and then on a sudden, run quite bright; put another basin underneath, remove the thick, and pour it again into the bag. When it is clear, pour it into your moulds, and put them in a cool place. When set, just dip the moulds in warm water, and the jelly will turn out easily. PUNCH JELLY. Make the same as calf s foot jelly, flavouring it with rum, or a little brandy, instead of wine. ORANGE JELLY. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in just enough water to cover it. Get some China oranges. Eub ofif the yellow rind of four peels on sugar, and scrape the sugar into the isinglass; a small piece of cinnamon may be added. Let it simmer over a slow fire, stirring it fre- quently. Squeeze and strain the juice of your oranges till you have a pint and a third, with the juice of a small lemon, and mix these together with enough clari- fied sugar to sweeten it. Add it to your isinglass, and when it boils, it is done. Strain it through a fine lawn or tamis sieve, and put it into moulds: what you may have left will do to &1 some glasses, when it is cold. ' LEMON JELLY. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass as directed for Orange Jelly, but without any cinnamon, and using lemon peel instead of orange peel. Strain a pint of lemon juice,62 CONFECTIONARY and put to it a wine-glassful of water, with clarified sugar enough to sweeten it: it will require more sugar than orange jelly. Put it to your isinglass, and when it« boils, it is done. Strain it through a fine lawn or tamis sieve; pour it into your moulds, and when cold, it will set. Dip the mould, when you want to use it, in warm water, and the jelly will turn out easily. Jelly of any other fruit, may be made similar to these, by infusing the fruit in clarified syrup, and adding suf- ficient isinglass dissolved in water, when it is nearly cold, to make it a jelly. Wine and licquer jellies the same; as a general rule, take one ounce of isinglass, twelve ounces of sugar made into a syrup and clarified, and a pound of fruit or two glasses of licquer or wine. BLANCMANGER, OR ALMOND JELLY. In rather less than a quarter of a pint of water, dissolve an ounce of isinglass over a slow fire, stirr- ing it now and then. Pound eight bitter and eigh- teen sweet almonds fine in a mortar, and add them to ihe isinglass, with three quarters of a pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream, a tea-spoonful of orange- fiower water, and enough clarified sugar to sweeten it. When it has just come to a boil, strain it through a fine lawn or tamis sieve. Let it stand till almost cold, when there will be a skin on the top, which you must take off: pour the blancmanger into a basin, taking care to leave the sediment behind. Put in half a glass of pale brandy, mix it a little, and pour it into your mould. For the sake of variety, when you have an ornament at the top of your mould, fill the ornament with Calves^ Foot Jelly, let it get cold, and pour in yom‘ blanc- manger. In turning it out, you must dip the mould into warm water. TRIFLE. Make a pint of boiled custard, (see Boiled Custard), and whip some cream as hereafter directed. Take three ounces of savoy biscuits, three ounces of ratitias, and63 MADE EAS^. cut the wafer paper from the bottom of three ounces of macaroons, put them into a trifle-dish; with three quar- ters of a pint of sherry or other white wine, and one* third of a pint of brandy, and let them soak. Cover it with four ounces of raspberry jam, and put the custard on the top of the jam; and the whipped cream on the custard as high as you can. Ornament the top with candied orange or lemon peel cut very thin, or green citron cut into festoons, according to fancy, and with nonpariels or coloured dust, this is the old method and looks well when done tastefully, but sugar work has entirely superseded it, and they are now orna- mented by placing a vessel, fountain, or swan in the whip, or with a temple or pagoda, &c. over it, by Ax- ing them to the edge of the dish on a few rataflas. WHIP FOR A TRIFLE. One pint of cream, one quart of water. If the cream is thin, use half the quantity of water, a quarter of a pound of powdered loaf sugar, and the juice of four lemons. Whisk it to a strong froth; take the froth olf, as it rises, with a skimmer, and lay it on a sieve to drain: continue doing so as long as you can obtain any; it should be made and kept in a cool place for four or five hours before it is wanted. WHIP FOR A TRIFLE. (No. 2.) Put into a pan, the white of one egg, a pint of cream, one ounce of loaf sugar, on which has been previously rubbed the yellow rind of a lemon: sweeten with pow- dered loaf sugar. And proceed as before directed. A glass of white wine, and the same of brandy, with the juice of an orange, may also be added. If this whip rises too solid, add a little milk or water, which will make it lighter. SPANISH FLUMMERY. Make a custard as follows: pound twenty-four sweetCONFECTIOXAKT 64 and twelve bitter almonds quite fine, in a mortar, put them into a stewpan with the yolks of eight oggs; mix them together, and pour upon them a pint of boiling milk; put them over a slow fire, and stir it quickly with a whisk till it thickens; then remove it from the fire, stirring it till it gets a little cool, which will prevent its becoming lumpy. When this is done, whisk up to a light froth half a pint of good cream in another pan or basin: and when your custard is quite cold, adefc^t, stirring it in lightly; put in powdered loaf ^ugar to your palate, and three quar- ters of an ounce of isinglass which has been dissolved in as little warm water as possible, and stood till it is cold; mix all together lightly, and when it begins to set, pour it into a mould. It will be ready in about an hour. PRESERViNC. RASPBERRY JAM. Put six pounds of ripe raspberries into a cane sieve, with holes just small enough to prevent a currant from going through whole, place it over a preserving pan, squeeze and rub the fruit with your hands till it is all gone through the sieve into the pan. Put it over a brisk fire, keeping them well stirred from the bottom with a long wooden spoon, or they will burn; let them boil for about six to ten minutes. Put in six pounds of loaf sugar broken very small; let it boil up again, and then keep it boiling for about ten minutes. Try if it be done, by dropping a little on a plate, and if it sets in about a minute, it is done. If it does not set in two minutes, boil it till it will. When done, pour it into65 MADE EASY. pots or jars, and set it by to cool. Next day, cut pieces of clean writing paper to the size of the insides of the pots, dip them in brandy, and put one piece upon the jam in each pot, so that it is covered all over, put ano- ther dry piece upon each, tie paper over the tops, and keep them in a dry, cool place. A common jam may be made by using moist sugar instead of loaf, but it will not keep so well, so. that it must be used the first. m STRAWBERRY JAM. ^ Strawberry Jam is made the same as raspberry jam: the scarlet pines make the best jam. RED CURRANT JAM. Take the stalks off ripe red currants, till you have eight pounds weight; put them into a cane sieve, with the holes just small enough to prevent them going through whole, place it over a preserving pan, and rub all the fruit through with your hands into the pan. Add seven pounds of loaf sugar, broken very small, or in the proportion of fourteen ounces of sugar to each pound of currants. Set it over a clear brisk fire, and let it boil for about a quarter of an hour or twenty mi- nutes. Try whether it is done, by dropping a little on a cold plate; if it sets in a minute or two, it is done; if not, boil it slowly till it will. Put it into pots or jars, and when cool, cover it over as directed for Raspberry Jam. A common jam may be made with moist sugar, in- stead of loaf. BLACK CURRANT JAM. Put your black currants, stalks and all, into an earthen jar or preserving pan; place them in a slow oven until soft, then rub them through a cane sieve, the same as used for red currants, to separate the stalks. Put as many pounds of loaf sugar, broken small, as you have66 CONFECTIONARK pounds of currants without the stalks, along with the fruit into the preserving pan; let it boil over a brisk clear fire for about a quarter of an hour. Try if it is done, by dropping a little on a cold plate till it sets in about a minute, as directed for Raspberry Jam; when done, put it into pots, and when cold, cover them as before directed. GREEN GAGK JAM. Put your green gages into the oven in an earthen- ware pan, until^oft, then rub them through a cane sieve, the same as used for Raspberry Jam, to take out the stones: to each pound of fruit you rub through, add one * pound of loaf sugar, broken small. Put all together into a preserving pan, and boil it for about a quarter of an hour; drop a little on a cold plate, and if it sets in about a minute, it is done, or else you must boil it a little more, till it will. Fill your pots and jars with it, and cover them, as directed for Raspberry Jam. APRICOT JAM. Use the same proportions, and proceed as for .Green Gage Jam. Break the stones, take out the kernels, cut them in two or three pieces, and mix with the Jam. PLUM JAM. Plum jam is made the same as Green Gage Jam, but instead of using loaf sugar, mix the same proportion of moist, when you have rubbed the fruit through the sieve. GOOSEBERRY JAM. The hairy green gooseberries are the best to make jam. Put them into the oven, in an earthenware pan, till quite soft, then rub them through a cane sieve, the same as used for Raspberry Jam. Put as much loaf sugar, broken small, as your fruit weighs, into a pre- serving pan, then add the fruit, and put it over a briskMADE EASY. 67 fire; when it has boiled for a quarter of an hour, try it as directed for Raspberry Jam; and when done, put it into pots, and cover it with paper dipped into brandy, and tie them over, as before directed. Red hairy gooseberries, when ripe, may be preserved in the same manner. ORANGE MARMALADE. Take Seville oranges according to the quantity you intend to make, halve them, and squeeze the juice from them; then cut out the pulp, leaving the rind very thin; and shred it in very fine slices, boil them till ten- der, and throw them into cold M^ater; if the oranges are not quite ripe, boil the pulp with a little water until very soft, keep stirring it to prevent its burning, squeeze it through a fine hair sieve; then mix the juice, water from the pulp, and chips together; to every pound add one pint of clarified sugar; boiled to the crackled or caramel degree, (see Sugar Boiling); thee add the other ingredients, let them boil ten minutes over a brisk fire to retain the colour, or until suffi- ciently jellied; try as for Raspberry Jam. Put it into pots, and cover it over. APPLE MARMALADE. Scald apples till they will pulp from the core; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, put in a little water, bod it to the ball or crack and take off aU the scum: then throw in the pulp, and let it sim- mer fifteen minutes over a quick fire, as for Orange Marmalade; a very little grated lemon peel will improve it. Fconfectionary C8 FRUIT JELLIES. RED CURRANT JELLY. Rub through a cane or mat sieve, with holes just small enough to prevent any of them going through whole, the same quantity of each, of red and white currants, as you intend to make into jelly; they must be as large and fine as you can get them, and quite ripe. Put them into a preserving pan over a brisk clear fire, and stir them from the bottom frequently with a wooden spoon. Let them get nearly boil- ing hot, and then strain the juice from them through a flannel bag. Measure the juice into the preserving pan, and to every pint put a pound of good loaf sugar; set it again on the fire, and as the scum rises, take it off. When it boils, it is apt to rise over, to prevent this, keep continually stirring it, and lifting some up with the spoon. Let it boil for a quarter of an hour, then try if it be done, by dropping a little in a cold plate; if it sets in a minute or two, it is done. Should it not set, it must be boiled longer; try again every mi- nute or so, till it sets; then take it off the fire, and if any scum should remain on the top, skim it carefully off. Put it into pots or glasses, and let it stand till next day to cool; fill your glasses last, and just hold them in the steam for a minute, before you pour the jelly into them, which will prevent them from cracking. Next day, cut pieces of paper to the size of the insides of the pots and glasses, dip them in brandy, and put a piece on the jelly in each, so as to cover it all over;MADE EASY. 69 put another dry piece upon each; tie paper over the top, and keep them in a cool dry place, BLACK CURRANT JELLV. Your black currants must be quite ripe, and as large as you can get them. You need not pick them off the stalks, but put them as they are into a glazed earthen- ware pan; put them into the oven, with a cloth tied over the top, and let them remain there till they get soft, then rub them through a cane sieve, that will not let them pass through whole, and strain the juice fronv them with a fine hair or lawn sieve. Make some red currants nearly boiling hot, and strain the juice from them, as directed in making of Red Currant Jelly. Mix equal quantities of both sorts of j.uice, and to each pint of the mixture put a pound of good loaf-sugar. Then boil it in a preserving-pan that will hold at least double the quantity, for a quarter of an hour; try if a drop on a cold plate will set in about a minute, and when it will, put it in pots and glasses, and cover it over, when cold, as directed for Red Currant Jelly. BARBERRY JELLY. Get your barberries large and quite ripe, pick them from the stalks into a preserving pan, and to every pound of fruit put a pound of good loaf sugar, pow- dered. Put them over a clear fire to simmer, so as to get out the juice: stir them frequently, but do not let them boil, as that only wastes them. When reduced to a soft pulp, strain the juice from them through a fine hair or lawn sieve. Put the juice into the preserving pan, over a brisk fire, and as the scum rises, take it off'; let it boil for about a quarter of an hour, then drop a little on a cold plate, and see in a minute or two if it has set; if it has, your jelly is done; if not, boil it a little more, and then try it again, till a drop on a cold plate will set in a minute or two.70 CONFECTIONARY When done, skim off the scum that remains, and pour the jelly into pots and glasses, and cover them with papers dipped in brandy, and tie paper over them, as directed for Red Currant Jelly. BOTTLING FRUITS. GENERAL DIRECTIONS. The bottles that are used for bottling fruits, are made with a wide mouth and short neck. When you pur- chase them see that the necks and mouths are perfectly round, and just run your finger round the inside, to see there are no little pieces sticking out, which is often the case in this sort of glass: which will either tear the cork as it is driven down, or else prevent its being driven in sufficiently far; in either case the air will be admitted, which will spoil the fruit. Be particularly careful that they are quite clean before you use them, and quite dry. If they are not so, make a weak lather of soap and water, get half a pound of such shots as are used to shoot sparrows; put the shots into one of the bottles, and about half till it with the soap and water, put your hand over the mouth, and shake it up and down briskly for about a minute; look through it, and see if it be clean; if not, shake it again till it is. Pour off as much of the water as you can without the shots, which you will then put into the next bottle; and rinse the bottle two or three times in clean water with- out shots. Proceed in this way with all the bottles, and then set them with the neck downwards in the hot-MADE EASY. 7I tie-rack to drain, and by the next day they will be dry and tit for use. You should use the long corks, and not bungs: for the bungs are cut the wrong way of the cork, and will admit air. Choose them of a good colour and close texture. Scald them, and let the water get almost cold, then drain off the water, and scald them again with clean water, and let them stand for an hour, take them out of the water, and put them in a sieve to dry; they will be dry in about two days. This will take away any unpleasant taste, which might otherwise taint the fruit. It is a common and very good practice, to pour melted fat upon the fruit in the bottles, to the thick- ness of a penny piece, just before they are corked down; this getting cold, forms a coat over them which materi- ally assists to keep out the air. When you open them for use, first remove this coat with a spoon. When you put in the cork, squeeze it as small as you possibly can, with whatever you have that will best answer the purpose, and it should then fit so tight that you cannot get it in more than an inch; then with a small bat knock it in as far as possible. Cut the cork off even with the mouth of the bottle. When you have put all the corks in, as directed, melt some bottle-wax in a small pipkin, and with a spoon completely cover the tops of both the corks and mouths of the bottles. The place where bottled fruits are kept should be cool and dry, otherwise they are apt either to get mouldy, or ferment: If you have not a store-room on purpose, a dry cupboard in that part of the house upon which the sun shines least, and a room where you do not have a fire, should be selected. TO BOTTLE ANY KIND OF FRUIT. Whatever fruit you intend to bottle, let it be ga- thered on a dry day, and before it is perfectly ripe. Prepare your bottles as before directed, and fill them to1% CONFECTIONA«Y the neck; cork them lightly, and set them in a copper, with water nearly up to their mouths. Heat the water until it is nearly scalding hot, but does not boil. Keep it at this heat for half an hour, or until you con- sider that the fruist is sufficiently done; then take out the bottles, and fill them with water nearly boiling: bard spring water is the best to use for this purpose, as it serves to strengthen or harden the skin of the fruit, thereby rendering it not so easily spoiled. When cold, cork them, as before directed, and set them in a cool place. At first, let them be often turned, and see if any of the bottles ai’e cracked, if so", remove them, and use those first, as the fruit will soon spoil. This method is preferable to that of heating the fruit in an oven, as the heat cannot be so well regulated. Fruits should be bottled on the same day that they are gathered, or they will be apt to ferment. SUGAR BOILING. TO CLARIFY SUGAR. Put the w’hite of an egg into a preserving pan, with a quart of water, beat it up to a froth with a whisk, add, six pounds of loaf sugar, mix them all well toge- ther, and set it over a very slow fire, so that it gradu- ally comes to a boil. When your sugar boils, put in a little cold water, and when it boils again, put in a little more w’ater, and so on, till you have used half a pint. When the scum is thick on the top, take it from the fire, remove some of the scum gently with a spoon or skimmer, (the scum may be taken off as it rises), andMADE EASY. 73 see if it is fine and clear undenieatb; if it does not appear so, give it another boil up, and then look again; proceed in this manner till it is quite clear, and then ])ass it through a straining bag, or fine lawn sieve. You may now proceed to clarify it to any of the following degrees. ^ ^ SMOOTH, OE CANDY, OR THREAD, SMALL AND LARGE. Take what quantity of the above you have occasion for, and put it over the fire, let it boil gently till it is smooth: this you may know by dipping your skimmer into the sugar, and then drawing it through your finger and thumb; immediately on opening them, you will observe a small thread drawn between, which will quickly break, and remain in a drop on your thumb. This shows that it has acquired a degree of smooth- ness, or the small thread; let it boil a little more, and it will draw into a larger string, when it will have ac- quired the second degree, of candy, or large thread. If it is likely to boil over into the fire, add a bit of butter, which will prevent it. Then proceed to BLOWN. In this degree, you must boil clarified sugar for a longer time than for smooth, of candy; then dip your skimmer in, shaking oS what sugar you can into the pan; then blow with your mouth strongly through the holes, and if bladders or bubbles go through, then it has acquired the third degree. FEATHEREtt To prove this degree, dip the skimmer into the sugar, when it has boiled longer than in the former degrees; after you have done so, first give it a shake over the pan, and then a sudden flirt behind you, and if it is boiled enough, it will fly off like feathers or mow properly in fine strings.74 CONFECTIONARY CRACKLED. Boil as much clarified sugar as you will want to use, longer than in either of the preceding degrees, over a clear fire, as before described; have a pan of cold water in readiness, placed so that no heat can get to it, and yet so that it shall be handy. To prove whether the sugar is boiled enough, dip a clean stick into it, and immediately after you take it out, put it into the cold water; draw off the sugar that hangs to the stick into the water, as quickly as you can, and if it becomes hard, and snaps when you break it, it has acquired the proper degree; but if otherwise, you must boil it again till it answers that trial. Be particularly careful that the water you use for this purpose is perfectly cold, or you will be greatly deceived. 4 CARAMEL. To obtain the caramel degree, boil clarified sugar longer than for either of the former degrees, over a clear fire. You must prove it as directed in the crackled degree, by dipping a stick first into the sugar, and im- mediately after you take it out putting it into a pan of cold water; but there ought to be this difference, that when it comes to a caramel height, it will, the moment it touches the water, snap like glass; this is the highest and last degree of boiling sugar. You must, in doing this, take great care that the fire which you use be not too fierce, for the sugar must boil f-lowly; and that it be clear, .and does not flame up the sides of your pan, Y^'hich would cause the sugar to burn, and get discoloured, and thereby destroy all your labour. These directions will be of great service, and should be attended to in boiling every sort of sugar.MADE EASY. 76 BARLEY-SUGAR, TWIST, DROPS, LOZENGES, &C. BARLEY SUGAR. Boil a pint of clarified sugar in a pan that has a spout to it, over a clear fire, till it is between the crackled and caramel degrees. To try when boiled enough, wet the end of a stick or piece of clean tobacco- pipe, and then dip it into the sugar, put it quickly into cold water, and hold it there half a minute: if the sugar comes off brittle, it is done; if not, you must boil it till it will do so. When*the sugar is boiled enough, put in rather more than half a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and six or seven drops of essence of lemon, and let it just boil again. Then, as before directed, try it, and when it will snap, it is boiled enough. While your sugar is boiling, slightly oil a smooth marble slab with sweet oil. On this pour the sugar when boiled, in a sheet, and cut it with a pair of scissors into strips about six inches long, and one wide; when cool, twist them, and put them on tin plates, where they will quickly get cold. You must keep them in jars or can- nisters, so that the air cannot get to them, or they will become sticky. DROPS, FOR KISSES. Boil and flavour clarified sugar exactly the same as for barley sugar: sift some loaf sugar upon a clean (not oiled) marble slab; when it is ready, drop the barley sugar on the slab, rather larger than a sixpence. Put them when cold, into sifted loaf sugar in a dish, giveCONFEOTIONAUY 76 them a shake, so as to mix them in the sugar, and then fold them singly in papers, either with or with- out mottos. ACIDULATED DROPS. Boil clarified sugar as for Barley Sugar, put it on the slab, and mix with the sugar a quarter of an ounce of tartaric acid. Fold the edges of your sugar over the acid, and continue in this way to mix the acid, but do not pull it. Roll it out in long sticks, cut them in small drops, and mix them in sugar dust, the same as Kisses. JUJUBE PASTE. Dissolve a pound of gum Senegal in water, add half an ounce or an ounce of orange-flower water. Put it in a clean preserving-pan, over a slow Are; keep stirring it till evaporated to a moderate consistence, then add half a pound of clarifled loaf sugar boiled to a candy height; stir the whole till evaporated to a good consistence. Run it into the flat tins, with an edge about a quarter of an inch deep; place them in a warm place, or in a stove to dry, when sufiiciently hard, cut it into small diamonds. PARADISE TWIST. Boil a pound of loaf sugar mixed with a little water over a clear Are; put in a little gum-water to clear it, take OS' the scum, and, and just before it is boiled enough, put a table-spoonful of vinegar into the pan; boil it suffi- ciently as directed for Barley-sugar; pour it on a slightly oiled marble slab, take up one part of it, and lay it over the other; pull it, cut it into the lengths of twist; roll them, and streak them with red or any other colour. Paradise twist, as well as common twist, is coloured wdth Vermillion, by dissolving some of the colour in gum-water, white of egg, or isinglass; or by using77 MADB EASY. the colour in powder^ and mixing it in part of the sugar when boiled; when the sugar you have poured on the marble slab, is cool, colour it all over with this mixture, fold it over, cut into lengths, and twist them. This practice, is, however, not very ornamental, and is so unwholesome, that it ought not to be used. COMMON TWIST. Boil two pounds of moist sugar over a clear fire, in a preserving pan, with half a pint of water; it should boil to the crackled degree, (see Sugar Boiling); then pour it on the slab, drop a few drops of the oil of pep- permint upon it; fold it over, pull it, cut it into lengths, and make it up as directed for Paradise Twist. TO PULL TWIST, BULLs’ EYES, &C. Fix a staple in the wall, and rub a little butter over it; put your sugar on the staple, and pull it towards you; continue doing so till it is perfectly white. BEST bulls’ eyes. Boil a quart of clarified sugar in a pan over a clear fire, till of the degree of crackled, (see Sugar Boiling) try it as directed for Barley sugar; when nearly boiled enough, put in half a tablespoonfui of lemon-juice; let it boil again, try it as before, and when it will snap, it is done. Pour it out upon a slightly oiled marble slab, and put twelve or fourteen drops of either essence of lemon or oil of peppermint on your sugar, take the sides of your sugar as it cools, and fold them into the mid- dle. When cool, cut them the size and shape you want. The more expedition you use in cutting them the bet- ter, as the sugar will soon get hard and brittle. Some use an iron stamp to cat them to tlie size and form they want them. You may colour the whole, or part of it with hay saffron, cochineal, orchil, or rose pink, dissolved in spi- rits of wine.78 CONFECTXONAEY COMMON BULLS EYES Are made the same as common twist, except that it is pulled on the staple; and must be cut and coloured in the same manner as the best bulls eyes. COLOURED ROCK SUGAR. Boil a pint of clarified sugar in a copper or earthen- ware pan, over a clear fire, to the degree of crackled, (see Sugar Boiling;) use no acid in the boiling of this; remove it from the fire, and well mix into it a table- spoonful of iceing, by stirring it in briskly with your skimmer. As soon as the sugar and iceing is well mixed and rises up like froth, put it into a papered sieve, or into an oiled tin or mould, and when quite cold, break it in pieces. If you have not any iceing ready made, mix some sifted loaf sugar with the white of an egg, until it is quite thick, put in a tablespoon- ful, and it will answer the purpose of iceing. If you want it coloured, mix in with the iceing any of the colourings hereafter described, (see Colourings for Con- fectionary) before you put it to the sugar. SNOWY ROCK, OR SNOW. Clarify a pound of loaf sugar, and boil it to the degree of crackled; (see Sugar Boiling,) add a table- spoonful of vinegar. You may mix in a few drops of either essence of lemon, or of the oil of peppermint. When well mixed, pour it out upon a slightly oiled marble slab; and while cooling, put it on the staple and pull it until it is quite white, when you may twist, roll, mould, or make it up into any shape you please. PEPPERMINT CAKK. Boil two pounds of raw sugar in about a teacupful of water, over a slow fire, until you perceive it begins to candy round the sides of the pan, or has reached the degiec cf blown, (see Sugar Boiling;) then take it ofi)79 MADE EASY. and drop eighteen drops of the oil of peppermint into it; mix it all well together, and then pour it into small tin hoops, round, square, or any shape you like. Or, you may make it up as follows. Butter a clean sheet of writing paper well over, and lay it at the bottom of a square tin; pour the mixture into the paper, and lay it on your stove; it will become beautifully dappled all over, then take it off, and cut it to any shape you please. HOREHOUND CAKE. Make a pint of horehound tea, by pouring a pint of boiling water upon a bunch of horehound in a basin, when the tea is cold, pour it in upon two pounds of crushed loaf sugar in a preserving pan; put it over a clear hre, and let it boil till of the degree of blown, (see Sugar Boiling,) take it off the fire, and mix it all well together, stirring it with a wooden spoon, till the sugar gets thick, and begins to set; then pour it out about a quarter of an inch thick, upon a slightly oiled mar- ble slab. You may make them of a heart shape, by stamping them out with a cutter, as it sets; or mark the cake in small squares; so that you can break it down the marks; or may leave the cake plain, and break it in pieces when cold. Keep it in jars or canis- ters from the air. ROSE CAKE. Proceed as for Peppermint Cake; leave out the oil of peppermint, and add otto or oil of roses. Colour with prepared cochineal. Clarified loaf sugar may be used instead of raw sugar. ELECAMPANE, OR CANDY CAKE. Take clarified loaf sugar, and boil it candy height: rub it a little about the sides of the pan till it begins to grain or turn white; then throw it out on a warm slab, or as directed for peppermint cake; divide it intoCONFECTIONARY 80 squares. Colour your sugar witli prepared cocliinral^ (see Colourings for Confectionary,) by adding some to the syrup, while boiling, sufBnient to give it the de- sired tint. This used to be made from a decoction of the roots of elecampane as horehound, from whence it takes its name. CANDIED SUGAR. Boil three pounds of loaf sugar in half a pint of water till candied, or to the degree of blown; rub the sugar about the sides of the pan, till it begins to grain or look white; pour it out on paper previously rubbed with butter into tin hoops, or a tin frame, placed on a hot slab, or a warm place. LEMON SPONGE CANDY. Boil a pint of clarified sugar, in a copper pan over a clear fire, till it is of the degree of the ball or crack, (see Sugar Boiling,) and colour it yellow. While this is getting ready, mix half the white of an egg with a tablespoonful of fine sifted loaf sugar, and about twenty drops of the essence of lemon. Mix this well with the sugar in the pan, with a wooden spoon; as for Rock sugar and then pour it on paper upon which you have sifted loaf sugar. GINGER SPONGE CANDY, Is made the same as Lemon Sponge Candy, excepting, that instead of putting essence of lemon with white of egg, you must use either a spoonful of ground ginger, or about twenty drops of the essence of ginger. PEPPERMINT SPONGE CANDY, Is made the same as Lemon Sponge Candy, excepting . that instead of mixing essence of lemon, with the white of egg and sugar, you must use about twenty drops of the oil of peppermint.MADE EASY. 8! TOKEY, To a pound of raw sugar add two ounces of batter When boiled to the crackled degree, grain it and poui it out on square tins,, that are either oiled or buttered PEPPERMINT LOZENGES. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gum arabic, and half as much isinglass in a quarter of a pint of boiling water; let it stand till quite cold; (dissolved gum arabic may be used alone, or gum arabic and gum dragon together:) then mix into it ten or twelve drops of the oil of peppermint. Add it to one 'pound and three quarters of sifted loaf sugar, or more, and work it all well together into a stiffish paste; roll it out thin on a marble slab, dusting it with starch powder; cut it into lozenges about the size of a shilling, with a tin cutter; and put them on paper or trays, and dry them in a proving oven or stove. ROSE, LEMON, GINGER, AND OTHER LOZENGES. These lozenges are all made the same as Peppermint Lozenges, excepting that, instead of mixing oil of pep- permint with the gum-water, you must use, to make Kose Lozenges, ten or twelve drops of the otto of rose; to make Lemon Lozenges, ten or twelve drops of essen- tial oil of lemons; to make Ginger Lozenges, ten or twelve drops of essence of ginger, or a spoonful of the best ginger, ground. You may make any other lozenges in the same way, by flavouring them with the essence you intend to use, and as these essences are in general very strong, ten or twelve drops will mostly be found sufficient; if not, you can add a few drops more after you have mixed the ingredients, and then well mix it over again. You can colour these lozenges according to the direc- tions hereafter given, (see Colourings for Confectionary) *io tliat they appear to be made of the article they areCOXFECTIONAEY 82 flavoured with; as pink for Rose, yellow for Lemon or Ginger Lozenges, by mixing some of the colour you want to use in the gum-water, before you put it to the sugar. PEPPERMINT PIPE. Make the paste the same as directed for Peppermint Lozenges; spread it upon a marble slab, about a quar- ter of an inch thick, cut it into lengths, and roll them upon a smooth stone, with a flat piece of wood. Place them on sheets of paper, and dry them in a warm stove. You may streak them any colour you please. If you wish them to be of any particular colour, mix some of any of the colours (see Colourings for Confec- tionary) in the gum water, before you put it to the sugar. ROSE, LEMON, OR ANY OTHER PIPE. Make a paste as directed for Peppermint Lozenges, excepting that instead of mixing oil of Peppermint with the gum water, you must mix flavourings, as directed for Rose, Lemon, Ginger, or any other Lozenges. Spread it upon a marble slab, about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into lengths, lay them on a smooth stone, and roll them, with a flat board, till round like a pipe, lay them on clean paper, and dry them in an oven. Colour the gum-water, as directed for the lozenges. BATH OR LIQUORICE PIPE. Dissolve gum tragacanth or gum arabic in a suffici- ent quantity of water, with Spanish liquorice, and make into a paste with either of the gums and sugar, as for Peppermint Pipe. This is a medicated troch or pipe, and for the pur- pose they are intended, ought to be made the same as the Black Pectoral Lozenge of the Pharmacopoeias, from which, I suppose, the confectioner derived the Bath, or Liquorice Pipe, viz. “ Liquorice and sugar, each tenMADE EASY. 83 ounces, gum tragacanth three ounces, water a sufficient quantity. Or, liquorice and gum arabic, each oue pound, warm water, a sufficient quantity. Dissolve, strain, and evaporate.’' COMMON PEPPERMINT DROPS. Make a paste as directed for Peppermint Lozenges, but not so stiff, and drop it with a tin dropper on paper, as Nelson’s buttons. Put them in a stove or a warm room, to dry. Colour them, by mixing in the gum water, before you put it to the sugar, some of either of the colourings hereafter given (see Colourings for Confectionary.) BEST PEPPERMINT DROPS. Make a paste in the following manner. Into a pint of sping water squeeze the juice of a lemon; put a pound of fine loaf sugar into a drop-pan, (which is a deep copper pan with a spout and round bottom,) mix a little of the water and lemon-juice into the sugar, till it is a paste jusr thick enough to drop from a spoon, and so that the drops do not immediately sink into the rest, but remain on the top for a short time. Put it over a clear lire, and stir it till it just boils, then take it off the fire, and put in about eight or ten drops of the oil of peppermint, and a little more sugar, so as to make it just thick enough to drop out; put it over the fire to warm again, but you must not let it boil. Drop it in small drops upon tin or pewter plates; let them get cold, and then take them off, and put them on sheets of paper or in sieves; put them in an oven to dry. Colour them with any colour (see Colourings for Confectionary) when you put in the oil of pep- permint. GINGER DROPS, Are made the same as Peppermint Drops exce])ting that you must not put any lemon-juice into the water; and instead of mixing oil of pej)permiut, mix in about GCONFECTIONARY 84 eight or ten drops of the essence of ginger. Colour them a light yellow. LEMON DROPS. Put a pound of sifted loaf sugar into a basin: mn lemon juice into it till it is a thick paste, and a little yellow colour, (see Colourings for Confectionary); put it into a drop-pan, and then make it hot over a clear tire, stirring it all the while; it must not boil; take it off the fii’e again for a minute. Drop and dry them the same as the best Peppermint Drops. BARBERRY DROPS. Mix the juice of ripe barberries, (which you must get by pounding them in a mortar, and straining off the juice through a piece of cloth,) with powdered and sifted loaf sugar, till it is of a consistence thick enough to prevent your spoon from falling when put in upright: make it hot on the fire in a drop-pan, stirring it all the time, it must not boil; then take it from the fire for a minute, add a little more sugar, and just warm it again; drop it out, and dry them, as directed for the Best Peppermint Drops. PEPPERMINT DROPS, ANOTHER WAY. Mix a pound of powdered and sifted loaf sugar with the whites of three or four eggs; add ten or twelve drops of the oil of peppermint, beat them up well, and itrop them out on writing paper, with a small pipe and bag attached to it, the same as for Savoy biscuits. nelson's buttons, Are a large sort of peppermint drops, and coloured on the top. Make as the last, and drop them on paper. meringues. Take eight whites of eggs, and whisk them up to a very strong froth; then stir in half a pound of fineMADE EASY. 85 sifted loaf sugar, as lightly as possible. Flavor them M’ith any essence you please. Lay them off on white paper the shape of half an egg: sift fine powdered loaf sugar on them, and blow off all that does not stick. Bake them on a board, in a very slow ovenj when of a pale brown, they are done. Take them off the paper, and beat in the under or soft part with a spoon, to form a hollow and dry them; fill them with cream or any preserved fruit, and stick two together, which will form an egg. COMFITS. Get a comfit-pan of any convenient size; have a cross-bar with a hook and swivel in the centre, and two chains with hooks at the end to fasten the pan, fix one of these chains at each end of your cross-bar; let the whole be suspended from the ceiling by the hook in the centre of your cross-bar, at a convenient height to be worked with ease over a charcoal fire, or hot stove, so as to keep the pan warm, but not too hot. Prepare some mucilage of gum arabic: and clarify loaf sugar; boil it to the degree of a thread or smooth; keep the latter warm by the side of your stove or fire. Have ready some carraway seeds, almonds, &c. sifted free from all dust, put some in your comfit-pan, and give them a coating of gum arabic and flour or fine starch powder. When this is sufficiently dry, give them a coating of sugar, by throwing in the pan a ladleful of syrup, and shake the comfits, about the pan, by swinging it to and fro until the sugar is perfectly dry, when each almond or seed will have a coating of sugar. Continue in this manner until they are the requii-ed size. Let your sugar be boiled a degree less in finish- ing them off. ' If they are for common or cheap comfits, give them occasionally a dust of flour, as you coat them. nonpariels. Nonpariels are made in the same manner as com-CONFECTIONARY 80 fits, but coloured sugar will answer all the purpose of nonpariels. TO COLOUR LOAF SUGAR DUST. Sift as much powdered loaf sugar as you intend to use, and put it into an earthenware pan; make it warm by placing it over a slow clear fire, at a short distance from it; mix it about in the pan with your hand, and be careful that it does not burn; then put some of one of the colours to it, (see Colourings for Confectionary) mixed with water to the consistence of cream, and mix it together; continue mixing and stirring it about with your hand till it is quite dry; then put it on paper to cool. Sift it when it is cold, and put it in jars or canisters. You must use your own judgment as to how much colour to use; but as a general rule use as little as possible, for most of the colours are unwholesome, and some of them are highly injurious. COLOURINCS FOR CONFECTIONARY. In giving the various sorts of colourings used in con- fectionary, the use of any thing pernicious is not re- commended, although it may be mentioned in some of the recipes; it is merely given to show that such things are used: and that such coloured articles, however ele- gant they look, cannot be produced without them. However, in general, the quantity of any of the delete- rious colours necessary to tie used is so small, that very lif tie injury can arise from their use, if care be take n not to put m more than is just sufficient.MADE EASY. 87 PINK COLOUR. You may make a pink colour with either archil, lake, Dutch pink, or rose pink. Take as much of either of them as will be enough for your purpose, and moisten it with spirits of wine; grind it on a marble slab, til! quite line, and add spirits of wine, or gin, till it is of the thickness of cream. RED COLOUR. Red colour is made with cochineal, grind half an ounce of cochineal line enough to go through a wire sieve, put into a two-quart copper pan, half an ounce of salts of wormwood, and half a pint of cold spring water; put the cochineal into it, and put it over a clear fire; let them boil together for about a minute; mix in three quarters of an ounce of cream of tartar, and let it boil again; as soon as it boils, take it off, and put in of powdered roche-alum rather less than half a tea- spoonful; stir it well together, and strain into a bottle; put in a lump of sugar, to keep it; cork it up, and put it by for use. SCARLET COLOUR. Vermillion, ground with a little gin or lemon juice, and then mixed with water, makes a bright scarlet; but in using it be careful not to take too much, for iv is highly pernicious. CHERRY RED. Boil an ounce of cudbear in three half pints of water over a slow fire, till reduced to a pint, then add an ounce of cream of tartar, and let them simmer again. When cold, strain them, add an ounce and a half of spirits of wine to it, and bottle for use; this is rendered red when mixed with acid, and green with alkali; it is not a good colour, and Dutch grappe mad- der may be substituted for it: take two ounces, tie it inconfectionary 88 a cloth and beat it in a mortar with a pint of water, pour this off and repeat the same operation until you have used four or five pints, wdien the whole *01 the colour will be extracted; then boil it for ten minutes, and add one ounce of alum dissolved in a pint of water, and one ounce and a half of oil of tartar; let it settle, and wasii the sediment with water; pour this off and dry it, and mix some of it with a little spirits of wine or gin. A tincture made by pouring hot water over sliced beet-root, will give a good red for ices and jelhes. BLUE. Dissolve a little indigo in warm water, or put a little warm water into a plate, and rub an indigo stone on it till you have sufficient for your purpose. This will do for ices &c. But to use indigo for sugars, you must first grind as much as you will require as fine as you can on a stone, or in a mortar, and then dissolve it in gin or spirits of wine, till of the tint you wush. , You may also make a good blue by grinding Prus- sian or Antwerp Blue fine on a marble slab, and mixing it with water. YELLOW COLOUR. You may get a yellow by dissolving turmeric, or safi'ron in water or rectified spirits of wine. Tincture of saffron is used for colouring ices, &c. The roots of barberries prepared with alum and cream of tartar, as for making a green, will also make a transparent yellow for sugars, &c. Saffron or turmeric, may be used in like manner. GREEN COLOUR. Put an ounce of fustic, a quarter of an ounce of tur- meric, two drams of good clear alum, and two drams of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, over a slow fire, till one third of the w'ater is wasted; add the tartar first, and lastly the alum ; pound a dram of indigo in a mor- tar, till quite fine, and then dissolve it in half an ounce89 MADE EASY. of spirits of wine. When the ingredients you have boiled (and which make a bright yellow) are cold^ strain the solution of indigo, and mix it with them. You will have a beautiful transparent green, strain it, and put it into a bottle, stop the bottle well, and put it by for use. You may make it darker or lighter by using more or less indigo. This may be used for colouring boiled or other sugars, or any preparation in ornamen- tal confectionary. A good green for colouring ices, &c. may be made as follows: Carefully trim the leaves of some spinach, and boil them in a very little water for about a mi- nute, then strain the water clear off, and it will be fit for use. BROWN COLOUR. Burnt umber ground on a marble slab with watei, will make a good brown colour, and you need not use much to obtain the tint you require. Burnt sugar will also answer the same purpose. FANCY BREAD, TEA CAKES, HOUSEHOLD BREAD, &G. COTTAGE BREAD. Put a quarter of a pound of German yeast into a quart of warm water, just so warm that you can keep your hand in it without feeling any inconvenience, and work the yeast up soft, until it is quite mixed with the water; then sprinkle into this about half a handful of flour, which mix up as you did the last, when you wfll have a very thin substance like tliin batter.CONFECTIONARY DO Now put into a clean pan a peck of flour, and having made a hollow in the middle of it, pour in the yeast and water which yoa have just mixed up : then sprinkle a handful of flour lightly over the top. Cover the pan over with a thick cloth, and put it in a warm place to rise, which it will do in about half an hour. When the ferment has risen up, and you see the flour which you sprinkled on the top is cracking, you must put in two quarts more water, just luke-warm, in which you have dissolved half-a-pound of salt, and mix up with it the whole of the flour and the ferment, just as you would make dough for a pudding. Keep working it, and scrape with a spoon all the flour and scraps from the edges of the pan, which mix up with the other dough, until you have a soft smooth dough, about the substance you would use for a pie crust. Then sprinkle a little flour on a clean board or table, on which put all the dough out of the pan ; and having rolled it out and doubled it over, seve- ral times, divide it into as many pieces as you wdsh to make loaves; roll each piece out several times with vour hands, doubling it, and rolling it out again, occasionally sprinkling the table or board slightly with flour, until it feels solid and compact; then break the piece into two parts, one part rather larger than the other, make them both round, and put the smaller piece on top of the larger piece, and press your thumb through the middle of the top to the bottom, to unite them. If you choose, you may slightly notch the edpes with a knife, which will open slightly in the baking, and produce a crusty notched cottage loaf. Should you prefer to make brick loaves, you must, after you have rolled and doubled the dough, as directed for cottage loaves, separate each piece into two parts, one larger than the other, and mould them into a long form, ])utting the smaller piece on to the top of the larger piece, and press your thumb through the top to the bottom, to unite them. If you desire to bake your loaves in tins, you must91 MADE EAST. roll and double your dough, just the same as if you were making cottage loaves, but must not separate the pieces, only roll them up to the length of the tin, and put them into the tins, so as to fill them not more than half full, which will give the dough room to rise and fill the tin; and then you will have a nice crust at the top. Another sort of tin loaves is made by rolling the dough out with your hand, to the width of the tin, and then rolling up one end as far as the middle of the piece of dough, and after that, rolling up the other end of the ])iece of dough, to meet the piece first rolled up; put the piece into the tin, with the join uppermost, and when it is baked, it will show a light-coloured crease along the middle of the top of the loaf. Cakes are made by rolling out small pieces of dough and making them round, then flatting them by pressing your hand on them; you may notch them by cutting them with a knife, round the edges, which will give you more crust, as the notches open in the baking; or you may slightly cut them on the top, in any form you fancy. Loaves will require about an hour and a half in a hot oven; but cakes will not require more than an hour. If you live near a baker^s, it would be better to send your bread to him to bake, as a baker’s oven has a more steady and regular heat than can be had in an oven by the side of the fire in a range. The process of moulding, as the rolling out and doub- ling over is called, must be done as quickly as possible, as all the time you are doing it, the dough is rising, atid will, if you are too long, weaken it, and make the bread heavy. HOUSEHOLD BREAD. Put into a clean pan, or a wooden trough, not too deep, a bushel of flour, and make a hole in the middle of it; then mix, in another pan, a pint of brewer’s yeast with a pint of warm water and a quarter of a pound of salt, and strain it through a sieve; then mix a little92 CO^^FECTIO^'AI!,Y flour with the yeast and water, to make it to the con- sistence of hatter. Pour this ferment into the hole in the flour, sprinkle a little of the dry flour over the top of it, and cover it with a cloth, to keep the cold air from it; set it in a moderately warm place to rise. When the sponge, as this is called, has risen, which will be seen by the flour on the top cracking, the whole of the mass is to be mixed together with enough water, rather warm, added a little at a time, to make it into dough, neither too stifl' nor too slack. The quantity of M'ater required cannot be here told, as different kinds of flour absorb very difl’erent quantities of water; but expe- rience will soon show how much will be sufficient. The quality of the bread greatly depends on the dough being thoroughly kneaded, so that every particle of the flour may be mixed up with the ferment, and be a compact and moist body. In kneading the dough, you will find that it wiU hang to the Angers and round the sides of the pan or trough, at first; this is easily removed by rubbing on a little dry flour; but when it feels tough and springy, and bears the impression of the hand, the dough is kneaded enough. You must now make it into one lump, and leave it in the middle of the pan or trough, with a little flour sprinkled over the top, to rise still more. This it will generally do in about half an hour. Now, with all possible speed cut the dough into pieces, and sprinkling the board or table on which you mould your dough with a little flour, to prevent its sticking, proceed to mould up your loaves into the required shape and size. Do this quickly, or the bread will be heavy. When moulded, put them on the peel and place them in the oven, close together, unless you wish to have crusty loaves, if you do, they must be set a little way apart. Large loaves will require about two hours baking; but small loaves vdll not require more than an hour, or an hour and a half, according to their size. When done, draw them with your peel, and turn the loaves bottom upwards, to cool gradually.MADE EAST. 93 TO PEEVENT YEAST TASTING BITTEE. If you use brewer’s yeast, and it should be bitter, you should put about half the quantity of water that you have of yeast, and strain all through a hair sieve half full of bran, two or three times j this wdl take aU the bitter taste away.PIES AND PUDDINGS, Pies, to make- apple 30 ditto, creamed .. .. 30 beef-steak 17 chickwi 19 eel 19 fruit, large 29 mutton 18 perigord 20 pigeon 18 raised 20 savory 18 veal 18 Puddings, to make— apple 53 almond 53 Puddings, to make— bread-and-butter .. 41 bread ., .. .. cabinet carrot custard .. .. whole rice.. ground rice ,, .. 49 French roll .. 51 millet muffin lemon orange •• •• souffle .. .. tapioca .. ., vermicelli.. .. CREAMS, JELLIES, &c. Custards, almond 46 cheap.. 47 pudding .. 47 Cream, apricot.. 57 barberry .. 57 lemon 55 mille fruit.. 56 Italian 56 raspberry .. 56 strawberry 57 pine-apple.. 57 latifia.. 58 mock-ice .. 58 'hipped .. 58 iced .. 59 Jams, rasplierry 64 3it ttw berry 65 Jams, black currant red currant green gage . gooseberry . apricot .. . plum Jelly, calf’s-feet punch orange .. lemon almond bkincmanger . red currant . black currant . barberry .. . Jujube paste .. . G; fa <16 f>5 G6 60 61 61 61 62 62 68 69 69 76CREAMS, JELLIES, ^:c.—Continued, 95 PAGB Flummery, Spanish.. .. 63 Cheese curd, potato.. ,. 11 lemon 11 orange 11 almond 11 Marmalade, orange.. .. 67 apple 67 Iceing, almond 39 for rich cakes .. .. 39 Whip, for a trifle .. .. 63 Fruits, to bottle .. 70 71 to prepare for tarts .. 26 Mince-meat .. .. 12 13 Banbury-meat 9 Raised pies, to All— pigeons for .. .. 23 poultry or game .. 23 French, of fowls... 23 French, of game .. 23 pheasant 24 Stringing, for tarts .. ,. Qf, Wine sauce 51 Patty meats, oyster .. .. 15 lobster 16 veal 16 savory 16 white roux .. .. 16 brown roux .. .. 17 PASTRY. Apples, charlotte of.. .. 30 Almond cakes 32 rout cakes 34 rocks 34 bread 36 Biscuits, rock 35 red rock 35 raspberry rock .. .. 36 sponge 41 savoy 41 Breakfastcake(SallyLun’s) 45 Buns, safiron 44 Bath 44 regency 45 tea 45 Cakes, mince, or Eccles .. 9 cheesecakes .. .. 10 curd for cheesecakes 10 almond 32 macaroons .. .. 33 nutoftai 33 Cakes, almond rout.. .. 34 York drops .. .. 33 pound .. .. 37 38 currant 38 rich wedding .. .. 38 seed 39 queen’s 39 savoy 40 cup 41 Lord mayor’s .. .. 42 diet bread 42 ginger 43 Custards, baked almond.. 46 boiled almond .. .. 46 Diet-bread cake .. .. 42 rusks 42 Drops, queen’s 40 savoy 41 Ginger cakes 4 Lord mayor’s cakes.. .. 4J Mince pies 12 cakes 996 PASTRY,— Continued. pioB tMa Macaroons 33 Sausage rolls .. .« .. 13 Nelson’s balls .. 41 Sandwich pastry 26 Queen’s cakes .. 39 Short, or tart paste .. 28 drops ; 40 Seed cake 39 Puff paste, ingredients for 6 Savoy cake biscuits 43 Pastry, directions for the 41 baking of 7 drops 41 Puffs, Banbury.. Coventry .. 8 8 Sponge mixtures biscuits 41 turn-over .. 27 apple 12 Sally-Lun, or tea cakes .. 45 gooseberry •• 12 Saffron buns 44 Pastry, pyramid of .. 11 Tarts and tartlets .. 25 fancy, for filling baskets 28 to make with ripe fruit 26 Paste, Swiss 12 to make with fruit pre- French 12 served without sugar 26 Patty cases 14 true lover’s knots .. 26 puits d’Amour .. 27 Pound cakes 37 38 paste for 28 Ratifias Raspberry biscuits .. 33 raspberry covered 28 29 • • 36 Rock biscuits .. 35 Tea buns 45 Red biscuits 35 Trifle 62 Rusks, sweet ,. 42 whip for a .. .. 62 Regency buns •. 45 Vol-au-vent 14 Rice, whole, a souffle of.. 48 Wedding cakes 38 ground, ditto .. 48 York drops 33 SUGAR BOILING, AND PREPARATIONS FROM SUGAR. Sugar, to clarify .. .. 72 smooth, or candy, or thread 73 blown degree .. .. 73 feathered 73 crackled 74 caramel 74 car 'led 80 Acidulated drops .. .. 76 Candy cake sugfu:,. Bath pipe .. .. .. 82 Barley sugar .. Barberry drops..PREPARATIONS FROM SUGAR,—Con/mued. 97 Bull’s eyes, to pull .. PAOB 77 Lemon pipe .. .. PAoB 82 best 77 7ft Liquorice pipe ,. 82 /o Kisses 75 Comfits 85 Meringues 84 Candied lemon sponge .. 80 Nonpariels .. .. 85 Candied ginger sponge .. 80 Peppermint drops .. 83 84 Peppermint sponge .. calie 80 78 Paradise twist .. 76 Ginger drops 83 Peppermint lozenges • . 81 Barberry drops .. 84 pipe 82 Lemon drops 84 Rose pipe 82 Elecampane, or candy cake 79 Rock sugar, coloured 78 Horehound cake 79 snow 78 Lozenges, peppermint .. 81 Rose cake 79 rose 81 lozenges .. 81 lemon 81 ginger 81 Tofiy 81 COLOURINGS FOR CONFECTIONARY. General directions for .. 86 Yellow colour .. 88 Pink colour 87 blue 88 red ' 87 green 88 cherry red 87 brown , , 89 scarlet 87 Loaf-sugar dust, to colour 86 MISCELLANEOUS. Almond cakes X. Apple pie 30 rout cakes 34 pudding, baked 53 rocks 34 charlotte of .. 30 bread 36 marmalade .. 67 icing 39 creamed .. 30 custards 46 pudding 55 Almonds, to blanch.. • • 31 jelly 62 Barberry cream • • 57 Apricot cream 57 jelly 69 jam 66 drops., .. •• 8498 MISCELLANEOUS,—Continued. Beef gravy, to make .. 21 to preserve .. .. 22 Bath buns 44 pipe 82 Consomme, or gravy for pies 21 Drops, queen’s 40 savoy 41 for kisses 75 acidulated 76 peppermint .. .. 83 ginger 83 lemon 84 barberry 84 Gravy-beef, to make .. 21 for meat pies .. .. 22 colourings for .. .. 22 Green gage jam .. .. 66 Ginger cakes 43 sponge candy .. .. 80 lozenges 81 drops 83 Gooseberry jam .. .. 66 Hoi ehound cake .. .. 79 Ice, use of in preparing butter for puff paste 5 Iceing for rich cakes .. 39 almond 39 Ice creams 59 Italian creams 56 Jams and jellies 60 to 66 Jelly punch 61 Kisses, drops for .. .. 75 Lemon pudding .. .. 52 cream 55 jelly 61 sponge candy .. .. 80 lozenges 81 pipe 82 dro))s 84 Mince-meat, to make 12 13 Marmalade, apple . 67 orange ,, 67 Lozenges 81 Liquorice pipe .. «_D 82 Macaroons 33 Muffin, or French roll pud- ding .. . 51 Marrow pudding . 52 Orange pudding 53 jelly , 61 marmalade , . 67 Pies, to make 17 to 30 Puddings, to make 47 to 55 Pine-apple cream . 57 Peppermint cake 78 drops 83 Puff paste, to make. 5 6 Pastry directions for mak- ing 6 directions for baking 7 pyramid of 11 Patty meats .. 15 to 17 Plum jam 66 Rice pudding, whole 47 ground 49 souffle of .. , 48 Raspberry cream . 56 jam 64 tarts 28 Red currant jam 65 jelly 68 Ratifia cream .. , 58 pudding 50 Strawberry jam . • 65 cream 57 Spanish flummery . , 63 Tarts, to prepare fruit for 26 Tapioca pudding , 54 Vermicelli pudding . 53 Wine sauce 51 Whip, for a trifle . - 63 FANCY BREAD, TEA CAKES, HOUSEHOLD BREAD, &c. Cottage bread, to make .. 89 ! To prevent yeast tasting Household bread, to make 91 | hitter 93u . . . * rV. ' i'.' j'.'y.r r'-' »■ *• •'' ,' w/** * *• ' ' ' ■ ' ' • - ■' ‘/ V,i , ■ . ■ ^ ^ ■ . ■■• ■ ■* ■ »i •'■• '•». * •''•, . ■ .••V*' •> 5fe' • 1/^