( i09 ) J), Through the rugged, or lacerated foramen, the internal Jugular vein, the eighth pair of nerves, and their ac- cessories, pass out, 10. Through the anterior condyloid foramen, the lingual nerves, or of the tongue ; as likewise the ninth pair, are sent out. USES OF THE FORAMINA, WHICH ARE NOT DU- PLICATE. 1. Through foramen ccecum, or the blind foramen, a small vein passes. 2. Through the great occipital foramen the spinal me- dulla passes down, and the vertebral arteries enter; likewise the accessory nerves of the medullary spine. In the skull of an unborn infant, we should observe the fontanella, or that membranous part, at the top of the head, which is not yet ossified. FRONTAL BONE, OR OS FRONTIS, Is situated at the anterior part of the skull,' in shape re- sembling a cockle-shell. Division into external surface, base, and margin. PROCESSES ON THE EXTERNAL SURFACE, ARE 1. Frontal tuberosities, which constitute the lateral ex- ternal surface. 2. Superciliary arches, which are the superior margins of the orbital cavities. 3. External frontal spine, is an apophysis, upon which the bones of the nose are situated. 4. Two external orbital apophyses. 5. Two internal orbital apophyses, which constitute the corners of the eyes. 6. Internal frontal spine, which is in the base of this bone, on the internal surface before the obscure foramen. CAVITIES ON THE EXTERNAL SURFACE, ARE 1. Two orbital cavities, which form the upper part of the orbit. 2. The fovea of the lachrymal gland in the external, and upper part of the orbit. 3. Fovea for the trochlea of the superior oblique muscle, going to the bulb of the eye, in the internal angle of the orbit. 4. Superciliary foramen, which gives passage to the frontal nerve. 3. Two pituitary frontal sinuses at the bottom of this bone, between the opening of the tables, of conse- quence to be considered in fractures of the cranium. THE INTERNAL CAVITIES ARE, 1. A furrow in the middle for the longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. £. The obscure foramen under the internal frontal spine. 3. The ethmoid cavity for the reception of the ethmoid bone. CONNECTION WITH SEVEN BONES. 1. With the parietal bones, 2. nasal. 3. lachrymal. 4. maxillary. 5. jugal. 6. . ethmoid bone. 7. sphenoid bone. USES. It forms the forehead, superior part of the orbits, and con- tains the anterior lobes of the brain. PARIETAL BONES. SITUATION. They are connected to each o>ther at the top of the head. FIGURE. Arched, and nearly quadrangular. DIVISION. Into external, and internal surface, and four margins; namely, 1. Superior, or sagittal margin. 2. Inferior, or temporal. 3. Anterior, or coronal. 4. Posterior, or occipital. And four angles, upper and lower. Two anterior, superior and inferior. Two posterior, superior and inferior. EXTERNAL CAVITIES. The parietal foramen in the posterior part of the sagittal su- ture, gives passage to a small artery of the dura mater. INTERNAL CAVITIES. The middle part of the furrow, or in the margin of the sa- gittal suture, for the longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. A sulcus, or furrow for the spinous artery, at the anterior and inferior angle. CONNECTION WITH FIVE BONES. 1. With its opposite parietal bone by sagittal suture. 2. temporal bone by squamous suture. 3. sphoepoid bone by squamous suture. 4. frontal bone by coronal suture. 5. occipital bone by lamdoidal suture. USE. These bones constitute the superior, or upper part of the head. F f OCCIPITAL