'HISTORY OF MEDICINE Ixxxviii exercises. As the sciences were cultivated, the manners of the whole people changed; diseases were common, and, of course, physicians received encouragement. It is said, that Arcagalhus, the son of Lysanias, the Pelloponessian, was the first physician who arrived at Rome, under the consulship of Marcus Aurelius, and Marcus Livius, in the year of the city 535. (o) It is said, he had the freedom of the city bestowed on him; and that the public had, at their own expence, purchased a shop for him, in the street Aceilius, that he might exercise his profession with greater advantage. At first they gave him the surname of Vulnerarius, or the healer of wounds; and his arrival was very agreeable to the people: but that soon after, his practice of burning and cutting, appearing cruel, they exchanged his former surname, for that more infamous one of executioner; from which time they conceived an implacable aversion to. physic, and all its professors. To this authority of Pliny, has been opposed that of Dionysius, of Halicarnassus, who, in his tenth book, says, the plague beginning to appear in Rome, in the year of the city 301, and happening to rage more violently than any other plague with which they had been afflicted in the memory of man, it carried off almost all the slaves, and half the citizens, the physicians not being able to attend, and take care of such a large number of patients. According to this, it has been imagined, that, contrary to w'hat Pliny had advanced, there were physicians two hundred years before the period mentioned by Pliny. To reconcile these two authors, it is supposed that Pliny here means Greek, or foreign physicians. But he says, afterward, in order to be convinced of the aversion the Romans, in those days, had to physic, we need only hear the sentiments of Marcus Cato upon that point, who lived seventy years after Arcagathus, and who was a man, as we may say, who had the honour of a triumph decreed in his favour, and the dignity of the censorship; which ofliice he bore, and are the least striking parts of his character, since so many other circumstances concurred in his person, to render him venerable and awful. The fol- lowing are his words, taken from a letter to his son. I will tell you, my son Marcus, at a proper opportunity, what notion I entertain of these Greeks, and what I think most valuable in Athens. It is not improper to study their learning and sciences cursorily, but it is by no means necessary to make ones self a complcat master of them. I shall say no more at present of that wicked, arrogant race; but persuade yourself of this, as much as if an oracle had spoken it, that as soon as this nation has communicated her learning to us, she will spoil and corrupt Rome; and this dire event will be more easily effected, if she continue to send her physicians to us. They luave sworn among themselves, to kill all the barbarians, by means of their art, and still they exact a fee for their pains, from the patients to whom they are called, that they may gain their confidence more effectually, and consequently have it in their power to destroy them, with less danger of suspicion. Thej’ have such a degree of insolence, as to call, not only other nations, but us, barbarians; nay, they carry their arrogance farther, and stile us o'w^koI, rude, and strangers to politeness. In a word, my son, remember that I have discharged you fr<>m having any thing to do with physicians. It is plain, from the language of Cato, that in his restriction, he only, meant foreign physicians. And Pliny says, must we then believe that Cato condemned a thing so useful and beneficial as physic? Assuredly not; since he himself vouchsafes to inform us, by the use of what medicines he and his wife had arrived at such an advanced age; and that he had written a book, in which he lays down the method of his practice, with regard to his son, his slaves, and even his cattle, when they were indisposed. The Romans, then, were not without some practitioners in medicine; but, in all probability, before the arrival of Arca- gathus, they only used that natural physic, which we may suppose to be practised by the infant world. Cato must have had faith in some superstitions, as will appear by the following curious.formula, of words to be .pronounced for the cure of a dislocation; but because there is no possibility of translating it, we shall deliver them in the manner of the author. Luxam si quod est, hac cautione sanum Jict. Harundinem prende tibi l irUlem, p. 4. out. 5 longam. Mediant difftnde, et duo homines teneant ad Coccendices. Incipe Cantare in alio. S. F, Motas vccta Darics Dardaries, Astataries Dissnnapitur, usque dum coeant. Ferrum insaper jaetato. Ubi coierint, altera alteram tetigerit ; id manu prende, <§• dextra sinistra prcecide. Ad luxum aut Fracturam alliga, sanum Jiet, ^ tamen quotidie cantata in alio, S. F. vel Luxato, vel hoc modo, huat, hamat, huaf, ista,^ (o) Pliny, Ub, 29. cap. 1.