The ( >39 ) USE. To receive chyme from the stomach ; to mix it with the en- teric, and pancreatic juice, and the bile; for the ab- sorption of chyle into the lacteals; and to discharge the fences by the rectum. THE MESENTERY Is a duplicature of membranes, which surrounds all the intestines, except the duodenum and rectum. DIVISION. ‘Into a thin, and a thicker part, or mesentery, and mesocolon. CONNECTION With the three superior bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. 1 SUBSTANCE Is a continuation of peritoneum, forming a duplicature, within which, are placed arteries, veins, lacteals, or absorbents; nerves, the mesaraic glands, and cellular membrane. USE. To retain the intestines, their vessels, nerves, and glands in a proper situation; to effect some change upon the chyle, and carry it to the thoracic duct. THE LIVER Is the largest abdominal viscus, situated mostly in the right hypocondriac region, and partly in the epigastric. DIVISION' INTO THREE LOBES; NAMELY, The great lobe to the right, small lobe to the left. Spigelian lobe. , superior, or convex surface, inferior, or concave, anterior, and posterior margins. CONNECTION. It adheres to the diaphragm by means of ligaments. The external membrane, covering its whole surface, is from the peritoneum. SUBSTANCE. Is vascular, the acini biliosi, or glands, called acini, which secrete the bile, are scattered in its substance. The hepatic duct arises by very minute branches from each of the acini, which unite, and form one canal, passing towards the duodenum, and joining with the cystic duct, from the gall-bladder; these, when united, form the d uctus communis choledochus, which empties its contents into the duodenum. USE. To secrete bile. THE GALL-BLADDER Is an oblong membranous bag, situated under the liver, in the right hypocondriac region. DIVISION. Into fundus, body, and neck. The cystic duct, descending soon, unites itself to the hepatic duct; it is then called the ductus communis choledo- chus, into which the pancreatic duct is sometimes in- serted: these are tlien continued into the duodenum by one orifice, between its first and second flexion. SUBSTANCE. Is membranous. USE OF THE GALL-BLADDER. To retain bile; regurgitating out of the hepatic duct; and to render it thicker, more acrid, and bitter. THE SPLEEN Is a viscus, situated in the left hypocondriac region, between the fundus of the stomach and the ribs. SHAPE. , Oval. DIVISION. Into external, or convex surface ; internal, or concave; su- perior and inferior extremities. CONNECTION With the diaphragm by means of the suspensory ligaments. .SUBSTANCE. Totally vascular. The external membrane is from the peritoneum. USE. Unknown; though, perhaps, it may serve to prepare the blood, for some purpose, for the liver. THE PANCREAS Is a glandular body under the stomach, in the epigastric region. SII APE. Like a dog’s tongue. DIVISION. Into superior and inferior surfaces. ’ right extremity, which is broad; and left extremity, which is pointed, anterior, and posterior margins. i