( 45 ) a6. Its superior branch in the external surface of the sterno-mastoideus, called nervus cutaneus medius of the neck. 47. Inferior branch, constituting the inferior cutaneous nerve of the neck, with ramus, No. 31. 48. Fourth pair of cemcals, 49- Its branch forming the phrenic nerve. 50. A brajich of the fourth pair running downwards to the desccndens of the ninth. 51. Another small branch of the fourth, extending it- self to the phrenic. 52. A branch of the fourth, descending to the inferior part of the neck, and exterior surface of the cleido- mastoid, constitutes another, called inferior cuta- neus collL 53. The remaining part of the fourth, in this body, declining in almost a straight line under the skin of the inferior part of the neck, gives off four branches. 54.55. First branch, which, divided into two. No. 54 and 55, advancing further posteriorly, with many sur- culisubcutc, run to the cucullaris muscle. 6.57* 58.Three other rami, which spread above the pectoralis and deltoid, with many ramuli and surcuii, and con- stitute the subcutaneous nerve of the thorax, or No. 56, particularly belongs to the posterior surface of the deltoid; No. 57, to the anterior facies of the same muscle; and No. 58, to the anterior parts of the pectoralis and deltoid. 59' A branch arising from the phrenic, and uniting with the ramus. No. 28, gives 60. A branch, again inserted into the phrenic; and another, 61. Proceeding further to the inferior parts of the great cervical ganglion. 62. Fifth pair of cervicals. 63. Branch of it joined with ramus. No. 6l, running to the ganglion. 64. Another branch of the fifth, perforating the supe- perior cauda of the muscles scalenus-prior, and thus inserted into the intercostal nerve. 65. A branch of the fifth running to the phrenic. 66. Posterior branch running from the fifth and sixth, between the scalenus medius and lateralis. j 67. A small branch of the sixth pair running to the firsi i thoracic ganglion. 68. A small branch of the seventh pair to the first tho- racic ganglion, emerging on the posterior side of the vertebral artery. 69* Another small branch of the seventh pair, running to the first thoracic ganglion in the anterior side of the vertebral artery. 70. Part of the portio dura of the auditory nerve re- clined backwards. 71. Its first deep-seated branch, which in this subject is present, and descends to the stylo-hyoideus muscle; and is therefore called Stylo-hyoideus. 1 72. Its second deep-seated branch in this subject, run- ning to nervus mollis, accompanying the external carotid artery.—(Vide No. 150.) ^ . 73. Third deep-seated branch of this subject^ called nervus biventricus, which descending, perforates tho biventer muscle of the maxilla inferior, and then changing its course, as.Q^ds behind it to the glosso-, pharyngeus nerve, and thus forms the ansa. 74. Ramus of the biventer nerve, No. 73, extends over the biventer muscle of the maxilla inferior, and anastomoses with another deep-seated branch, o- mitted in this plate. 75. Nervus glosso-pharyngeus, first branch of the eighth pair. 76. First branch of the glosso-pharyngeus, anastomosing with the biventric nerve of the portio dura. 77. Second branch of the glos.so-pharyngeus, descend- ing above the internal carotid artery, which in the region of the first flexure of the carotid, without the cranium, gives 78. A branch, tending downwards to the oervqs mollis of the intcrcostalis.—(Fig. II. No. 4 & 5.) 79. And another nerv'e running down above the internal ' carotid to its ongin, then behind the carotid ar- tery. so. Here nerve, No. 77, inflects round the posterior side of the carotid, and ascends behind it above tho parvagum, anastomosing with a small branch of the pharyngeus. 81. Third branch of the glosso-pharyngeus, called in- ferior pharyngeus, running above the internal caro- tid; then on its anterior side, divided into three branches, of which S2. The superior passes under the external carotid, and forming an arch, again ascends to be inserted into the constrictor medius of the pharynx, 83. The middle pursuing the same course, which, how- ever, gives off asurculus'to the stylo-pharyngeus. 84. Inferior small branch runs to the internal surface of the external carotid, there to be joined with the nervi molles.—(Vide Fig. II. No. 3.) 85. 86. Fourth or fifth branch of glosso-pharyngeus, both running to the muse, pharyngeus. j 87. Trunk of the glossorpharyngeys, which proceeds anteriorly under the'muscles stylo-pharyngeus, and is divided into four branches, 88. First, superior and thick branch, which, with the following three branches, 89‘90'91'Piissing under the stylo-glossus and ccrato-glossus muscles, and run together to the tongue. 92. Nervus pharyngeus of the eighth pspr. N 93.-9+.