( ‘7« ) ^ TRANSPIRATION. Transpiration is an exhalation of an insensible vapour. IT IS DIVIDED INTO 1. Cutaneous transpiration from the whole surface of the body. 2. Pulmonary ti-anspiration from the surface of the air cells of the lungs. 3. Internal transpiration, or exhalation, which exhales into the cavities of our bodies. The organs of transpiration are the extremities of arteries upon the skin, air surface of the lungs, and which open into the internal cavities of the body. The matter of transpiration from the skin and lungs, is aque- ous, passing off in the form of vapour, with a small quantity of water and volatile salt. The quantity of perspirable matter in summer, and in our climate, is reckoned at five pounds in twenty-four hours; but this varies according to the difference of food, air,‘climate, motion, and rest. Internal transpiration is an aqueous vapourj a little gelatinous from the mouths of exlialents. USE. Cutaneous transpiration frees the blood from a superfluous water, and the more subtile excrements; it also conti- nually moistens the skin, and prevents it from being dried by the air. Internal transpiration causes the viscera in the cavities to be moist. Sweat is such an increased transpiration as to pass off in form of a visible vapour, and is secreted from the same vessels as transpiration; it carries from the blood not only water, but also saline, earthy, and oleaginous particles, an * orms drops. INHALATION. « Inhalation is the absorption of vapours which exhale into the cavities of the body, and of those which arc applied to the external surface of the body. THE ABSOKBING ORGANS ARE 1. The extremities of veins which open on the external sur- face of the skin, and on the surface of the internal cavities and viscera. 2. Lymphatic veins which arise in these cavities, and ia every part of the cellular membrane. The absorbed saline particles is carried by the absorbent veins into the mass of blood ; but the more gelatinous into the thoracic duct by the lymphatics, coagillable lymph absorbents.* USE. Internal absorption prevents the dropsy of the cavities of our bodies ; the absorbed lymph dilates the chyle in the thoracic duct; but cutaneous absorption attracts me- dicines applied to the skin ; and, perhaps, some prin- ciple from the air, as yet unknown. OF ACTIONS COMMON TO EACH SEX, THE AC'riONS WHICH SERVE FOR THE PROPAGATION OF OUR SPECIES ARE CALLED SEXU.A.L AS . IN MEN, The secretion of the semen. IN WOMEN,! Menstruation. Conception. Evolution of the erllbryo. > Pregnancy. Labour. Child-birth. USE. For propagation: for if man could not propagate his-species, human kind would have continued one age only. THE • See the Experiments and Demonstrations of Ab. Kaaxa Soerhaave, and the illustrious Anatomist Mectceit, who has shewn that some of the L'mphaiic absorbents communicate with the sanguiferous veins.—This the Hunters, their followers, and Hewson, deny Future experiments must dcicrmine the truth. The contending on the subject is loss of lime to little purpose, as it cannot be of great importance in the cure pf diseases. The glory of the discoveries, which the Hunters have assumed, arc not strictly consonant to truth, which numerous Authors prove by antecedent writings.