Ixxii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. manner as to approach very near the diaphragm; but without touching it. You may, if you think fit, anoint the part with the eretrian earth, and make the same observation as in the tinen cloth. Many use the unction, with the other method, lest the parts, which arc first anointed, should be dried. After the operation, by burning, or incission, introduce a tent made of tow, and evacuate the pus, by little, and little, (o) When you have determined on cutting, or burning, it will be very pro- per to make a mark on the skin; within which limits you are to confine the limits of your knife, or cautery. Avoid carrying them too high, or too low'. All food that is disposed to excite coughing, is to be avoided, lest it should cause a revulsion of the pus into the lungs, wdiich would be bad for the patient; but the pus is be to suffered to dry as soon as possible, in order to its discharge by the incission. At the end of twelve days evacuate the rest of the pus, and stopping the orifice with alinen'tent, drasv out the pus twice in the day, prescribing also a diet, proper for drying the inner region of the thorax. And this is the method of examining and curing an empyema, whether proceeding from a wound, peripneumony, or vio- lent catarrh, occasioning a pressure of the lungs against the side. With regard to the time for performing the operation for the empyema, (p) Hippocrates, orders us to avoid the winter, and summer solstices, because in those seasons, there is the greatest and most sudden changes in the air. (q) We must at a con- venient time, open those whose thorax is hydropical; we must presently cauterize with hot irons, those who are in consump- tions. (r) The knife, or cautery, is ordered to be applied in the lower part of the thorax, between the fifth, and sixth rib, reckoning from above. The incission was performed with a sharp knife. For cauterizing a long iron instrument, and not very thick, that after the cauterizing the hole may be made larger than the thickness of the instrument was. The side was also perforated with a hollow' piercer, made something like a screw or nail piercer. Where the matter was supposed thick, an incission w'as made choice of; but when the matter was thin, and watery, or where there is a dropsy of the thorax, then burning or perforation was thought preferable. It was laid down as a rule, that the matter is to be permitted to flow in a small quantity at a time, according to the strength of the patient: for the sudden evacuation of all the collected matter, would produce faintings, and destroy the patient, (s) It was observed if the probe returned of a black colour, on examining the pus, it was very dangerous. BROKCHOTOMY. WHEN an inflammation of the throat, threatened the suffocation of the patient, Hippocrates pierced the windpipe, and put a reed, or pipe, into it. (t) ON THE FISTULA IN ANO. THE diseases of the anus are largely treated of, (u) and after the enumeration of the causes from whence they proceed, the fistula is said to be discoverable, by making search with a stalk of fresh garlic, in the direction of the sinus. When it is discovered, a five folded thread, or hair, is to be passed through the orifice of the fistula, and to be gradually drawn closer, that the sinus may be opened. Several medicines arc prescribed, as necessary for the cure of this disorder; but no mention is made of the method by cutting, (x) Though the sphincter aui, it is said, may be cut away safely, (y) and without in- juring its functions, if only one eighth part of-4t be left untouched The actual cautery was for the cure of the hemorrhoids, (z) This disorder happening to melancholy, and nephritic per- sons, is good, and hemorrhoids that have long continued to flow, (a) must not be healed up quite, but one vein must be kept open, or else there is danger that a dropsy, or consumption, will succeed, (b) DISORDERS OF THE EYES. IN inflammations of the eyes, our author recommended, copious bleedings, bathing in hot water, purgings, (c) and tq drink (o') Tlie pus to be evacuated graduaUy. (p) Time of performing the operation. (9) Lib. VI. Epid. Sect. VH. (r) Lib. II. De morb. ($) The colour of the probe. (t) Lib. III. De morb. (it) De fistulis. (i) Cutting for the fistula in ano not known. (y) De hemorrhoid. (s) Hasmor. XI. 1. Indicat. X. 9. Aph. 11. Sect. VI. (a) Dangerous tostop the bleeding of the piles. (6) Humor. XI. 3. VI. Epid. XXXI. 1. VI. Epid. III. 65. Aph, 12. Sect. VI. Opinion of the bemorrtioids being stopped, (c) Aph. 31. Sect. VI. 11. Epid. VI. 26.