( S‘ ) PLATE XLI. On the Abdomen. Name and Situation. 1. The inferior part of the liver : covers the duodenum, pancreas, &c. 2. The round ligament. S. Vesicula bilis, or gall-bladder. 4. Pancreas is a great smooth gland, be- hind the stomach, extending from the duodenum towards the lien, or spleen. 5. Lien, spleen, is a viscus in the left hy- pochondrium, near the bottom of the stomach, covered by the ribs. 6. Renes, kidneys; behind the sac of the peritoneum, in the loins, round the bo- ■ dies of the superior lumbar vertebrae. 7. The aorta. From the arch to the diaphragm, it gives the following branches: Structure, Connection, d^c. Its superior surface is convex; inferior concave. Connects the liver to the umbilicus. On the under side of the liver. Substance is glandulous. It is connected with the duodenum, mesentery, splenic vessels, and spleen. Substance: cellulous, vascular. Connexion with the stomach, pahereas, di- aphragm, and left kidney. Substance is firm and hard. 1. Exterior, cortical. 2. Interior, tubulous. 1. Bronchial; 2. oesophageal; 3. eight inferior intercostal; 4. four diaphrag- matic arteries. In the abdomen, and below it, gives 8. Vena cava ascendens, vel inferior; the rami, or branches, are: 9. Vena emu!gens; right and left; are I inserted into the trunk of the vena cava. 10. The spermatic arteries arise from the aorta; the right vein is emptied into ' the vena cava. 11. Ureters; two canals, which terminate in the vesica urinaria. 12. The iliac vessels; arise from the : aorta, and about the last vertebra of the loins, are divided into two rami. !i3. Infestinum rectum; begins from the colon to the lowest vertebta of the . loins ; and terminates in ano. I 14. Vesica urinaria, or urine bladder; ] situated in the pelvis; the two ureters 1 carry the urine from the kidneys ; but the bladder discharges' it at proper periods through the penis. 1. Cceliac artery; 2. superior mesenteric; 3. renal; 4. spermatic; 5. inferior mesaraica; 6. lumbar; 7. sacral; 8. iliac. The branches pass 1. Hepatic; 2. renal; 3. right sperma- tic ; 4. lumbar ; 5. sacral ; 6’. iliac veins. They are divided near the kidneys into two, three, four, or five rami. j They pass down into the testes, divide into many small branches, terminating in tubuli testis, and spermatic veins. Substance is membranous. The size of a large quill. 1. Internal, commonly called Hupogas- trica, and Hocmorrhoidalis E.denia, 2. External, whence epigastric ; 2. pu- • denda; 3. external, and internal era- ralis. The intestinum rectum is annexed to the os sacrum, coccygix, and bladder in men; but in women, to the vagina uteri. I. It is connected with the os pubis by the peritonaeum; 2. with the parts of generation by the urethra; 3. with the umbilicus by the urachus and umbilical arteries; 4. in the males, it coheres with the intestinum rectum ; in wo- men, with the vagina uteri. j Use, Receives the}b)ood of the vena portarum, and separates the bile from it. ’ ^ Strengthens the liver in the adult. Receives the bile. Separates the pancreatic juice, which serves to attenuate the chyle, being similar to saliva. It receives much blood, as is evident by its vessels: authors, as yet, arc not agreed on its use. To secrete the urine in its pelvis for de- purating the blood, and to convey it by the ureters to the bladder. 1. They run to the vesiculae pulmonales; 2. to the oesophagus; 3. to tlie eight ribs to the sternum; 4. to the dia- phragm. ' 1. To the stomach, liver, spleen ; 2. in- testinum jejunum, ccecum, colon; 3. kidneys ; 4. testicles ; 5. colon, intes- tinum rectOm ; 6. loins and abdomen; 7. near the os sacrum ; 8. to the legs. Receive all the blood returning from the abdomen, and inferior extremities. They return the blood from the kidneys to the vena cava. They carry the blood to the testes. The left vein flows into the emulgent. They' catry the secreted urine to the ve- sica urinaria, or bladder. They proceed towards the bladder, rec- tum, parts of generation, nates, &c. 1. Goes through the musculus rectus to the mammas; 2. to the pudenda; 3. to the crura, and feet. The rectum is surrounded with much fat, that in the excretion of the fascesj it may be easily dilated. Destined to collect and expel the urine; 1. by its retaining, and'2. by its mus- cular expulsive powers, through the urethra; which action is called, voiding of urine.