( »3 ) PLATE XXI. The Veins. I All the blood of the head, face, and neck. Is discharged. The blood driven through the arteries into the cerebrum and cerebelluni- i. The int. rnjl jugnlar veins descend into tlie neck. Veins}, c. The frontal; Q. the angular; 3. d. the temporal; liie auricular sublingual-, 5. e. the occipital. f. ’I'hc digital veins of the band ; arise from the extre- mities of the aitenes, through innumerable anasta- muscs. i i. The external radial vein ; runs down the length of the radius. Flows into the'sinusses of the dura mater. Receive the thyroid b, and internal maxillary veins. Descend in the lateral parts of the neck under the common inte- guments. Flow into 1. g. the cephalic vein of the thumb, and unite with rne inferior. 2. Into the salvatella; b. this comes to the second finger. By its union with the mediana ce~ pbalica minor. i. Veins 1. The evternat and internal cubital-, 2. the collati ral -, 3. the superior deep seated veins. m. The larger cephalic median vein-, 2. the inferiorpro~ funda; 3. the internal radial. From the flowing of these veins into the inferior part of the hu- merus. Flow into the flexure of the arm, and become the vena mediana. The cephalic and basilic veins. ». The brachial van. B, The axillary vein; it receives. p. The subclavian veins ; are a continuation of the ax- illary veins, and receive the blood from Unite in the humerus. Ascends in the internal surface of the humerus to the subniax- illary cavity. 1. The thoraic veins; the muscu- lar and fcapulaty. 1. The internal jugular veins. 2. The external 3. Tlie vertebral * Both subclavians unite on the right side, and thence convey the blood into the right atrium (i. e, venous sinus) of the heart through the vena cava. r. The vena axygof, or vena sine pan. 4.The mediastina; 5. thopericardit; 6. the diuphragmatir., or phre- nic; 7. the internal mammary; 8. the laryngeal; y. the supe- rior intercostal; 10. the vena azygos. Is composed by the conflux of the following veins. j. The digital veins of the foot; arise from mities of the toes. j The vena plantarh, surales. \ X. The anteiior and posterior tibiat. the extre- Are emptied into the cephalic vein oj the great toe t. -2. the sa- phena u. and 3; the dorsal vein of tbefootw. Inferius. Superius. Unite with the vena peronea. y. The popliteal vein; ascends by the pojdes. After it is out of the ham. *. The crural vein ; in the pelvis it is called the external Hide. *. The vena cava inferior; begins from the iliac veins to the last vertebne of the loins; near the heart it unites with the vena cava superior tn the anterior sinus of the heart. internal iliac vein; receives It receives the external pudenda. "1 Unites with the internal iliac vein. J In the cavity of the pelvis and ab- domen, the following veins dow to them : 1. The external hcemorrhoidal veins. 2. The hypogastric veins. Into the two Internal and two ex-- ternal jugular veins. Is received by the internal jugu- lar veins. Are emptied iato tluv subclavian veins. ' Convey the blood into the exter- nal jugular veins, which carry it into the subclavian veins. Is emptied into the e.xtcrnal ra- dial vein. This flows into the external and internal cubital. Bect'mes the cephalic major, which adheres to the superior part of the arm. Is formed the vena basilica 1. The median vein unitesat one of its ends with the ccphalica inagna, and at the'other with the basilic. Run into the bracld.l vein. When entered into this cavity it is called the axillary vein. When it reaches the clavicles, it is called the subclavian vein. ' From the head. From the external parts of thehead. From the veins and vertebral si~ nusses. All these come from the internal parts of the thorax and neck. 1.' The bronchial; 2. the superior oesophageal; 3. the vertebral; 4. the superior right mtercostals; 5. the left inferior mtercostals. These run into the anterior iibial vein. Empty themselves into the poster rior tibial vein. And are then called tho popliteal: vein. It is called the crural, or femoral vein. It passes into the inferior vena cava. 1. The sacral; 2. the lumbal; 3. the right spermatic 4.. the re- nal; 5. the hepatic; 6x the/«- ferior diaphragmatic. Into tliesft'llow 1. the internal pu- dendal veins; 2. the dorsal ve.r.s of the penis; 3. the obturator.