T ( 90 ) PLATE XL. Of the Thorax' and Kame and Situation. 1. Theis a cartilaginous tube, situated behind the tongue. 2. The intcrnaljugular rein, is a branch of the superior vena cava. 3. The subclavian vein, situated under the clavicles. * 4. The vena cava descendens, is divided into superior and inferior. 5. The right, or anterior auricle of the heart, a muscular sac, opening into the right ventricle. 6. The right ventricle of the heart, is the • anterior cavity of the.heart. 7. A portion of the hft ventricle, in the posterior part of the heart. 8. The aorta descendens, makes an arch from the right ventricle of the heart, towards the vertebrae of the back, descends into the abdomen, and is di- vided into the iliacs. 9. The pulmonarj/ artery, from the right ventricle of the heart, is divided into the right and left branch. 10. The right lobe of the lungs, a portion of it off, to shew the larger vessels ; ,the right is the larger, and is divided into three lesser lobes, and these again into innumerable ones. 1 r. The left lobe of the lungs, is di\ ideJ into two lobes. 12. 'T\\c diaphragm, is a transverse sep- tum below the lungs, its superior sur- face is covered by the pleura ; its in- ferior by the peritoneum. 13. The latr, is a great viscus in the right hypochondrium, and somewhat in the epigastric region. 14. The ligamentum rotundum. 15. The gall-bladder, oblong, pyriform, in the inferior part of the liver; 16. The vtnlriculus, orAYomaeA,ispressed by the liver to the left side. It is a large cavity between the liver and spleen. 17. The small intestines in the middle of the abdomen: they arc the duodc- rmm, jejunum, ileum ; all which are connected and regulated by the me- sentery : the large intestines are the coecum, colon, and rectum. Structure, Connection, &c. It consists of live cartilages, and various, muscles. The internal jugular veins begin from the foramina lacera of the cranium. They terminate in the superior vena cava. Receives the subclavian, external, and intcrnaljugular veins, and the vena azygos. The structure is membranous; there are two valves, called Mitral Valves, an- nexed to it. The heart is divided into right and left ventricle by a carneous substance, called tjie Septum. This ventricle is stronger than the right. The arch of the aorta gives off: 1. The arteria innominata. 2. The left carotid. 3. The left subclavian. Is distributed into innumerable branches and ramuli of a net-like figure into the pulmonary vesicles. The. lungs are connected with the ster num and vertebra, by meaps of the mediastinum, with the heart by the pulmonary vessels, with the arteria aspera. The substance consists merely of small vesicles, and various vessels. Its substance is muscular, tendinous; it is connected with the sternum, spuri- ous ribs, pericardium, mediastinum, liver, and lumbar vertebrm. The substance is vascular ; the interior membrane of the liver, which invests the whole substance, is fr^m the peri- toneum. Becomes tendinous in the adult. Consists of several coats, common, vas- cular, muscular, and nervous. Is connected with the a'sophagus, omen- tum, spleen, the left orifice, called Cardin, is annexed to the diaphragm ; tlie right pylorus to the duodenum. 1. The duodenum is in length equal to the breadth of twelve fingers. 2. The jejunum fifteen spans, situated in the umbilical region. 3. The ileum twenty spans long, in the hypogastric region. Abdomen. Use. Is the organ of speech, and serves for re.spiration. They receive the blood from the sinuses of the cerebrum, cerebellum, &c. Convey the blood into the vena cava as- cendeiis. Sends the blood into the right auricle of the heart. By this auricle, the blood enters the right ventricle of the heart. The right ventricle receives the blood carried through the vena cava, and sends it into the lungs. From it the blood is propelled through the aorta and arteries all over the body. 1. Gives off the subclavian and right carotid. 2. From thence the external and inter- nal carotids. 3. The subclavian gives off the submax- illary. This artery carries the blood through the whole substance of the lungs, to alter and prepare it. 1. Respiration, by which the blood is mi.\ed,and altered. 2. Serves for the voice. 3. 1 he sense of smelling. 4. Expels the noxious particles of blood. Its use is similar to that of the right lobe. It sustains the lungs, and is essential to respiration; it also excites motion and pressure on the intestines. The liver secretes the bile. The hepatic duct unites with the cystic duct, and becomes the ductus choledochus. Sustains the liver in its situation. Collects the bile into the duodenum, through tlic cystic diict. The stomach receives, retains, digests, prepares the food, dilutes it with the gastric juice, and sends it through the duodenum to the intestines. The aliments are mixed in the duodenum with the bile and pancreatic juice. 2. Tliis is mostly empty, on account of the vivid action of the lacteals. 3. Contains an infinite number of lac- ' teals, absorbs the chyle, and sends it off to the u'xser.teric glands. ' 18, Thcsp/cf/j.