( >45 ) The internal carotid passes through the carotid canal of the temporal bone into the cavity of the cranium, and di- vides into the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries, which go into the cortical part of the brain. The subclavian arteries, near the clavicle, take a curvature, like an arch, going into the cavity of the axilla, in which they are called the subaxillary arteries. E.4CH SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY GIVES OFF FOUR branches; namely. The internal mammary, descending near the sternum. The cervical, going to the muscle of the neck. The vertebral, which ascend through the foraminaof the seven transverse cervical processes, and go into the head by the great occipital foramen. . The superior intercostal, which is divided into three branches, passing on the inferior margin of the ribs, as far as the sternum. The axillary artery is continued into the brachial, which passes down, at the internal margin of the biceps muscle, to the flexure of the fore-arm, where it di- vides into three branches: 1. The radial artery, lying close to the radius, descends into the palm of the hand. 2. The interosseal artery, dividing into internal and external;- one of which passes on each side of the interosseal li- gament, and goes to the muscles of the fore-arm. 3. The cubital, or ulnaiy artery, which follows the course of the ulna, passing under the ligament of the wrist into the palm of the hand, gives off The palmar arch, from which four digital arteries are sent off; each of which divide into two branches at the first phalanx of the fingers, and, passing up on each side, are continued to the apex. About the middle of the brachial artery, lateral vessels are sent off, which anastomose with each other, and are called the anastomosing branches. BRANCHES OF THE DESCENDING AORTA. The aorta, from its arch to the diaplu’agm, gives off the fol- lowing branches; 1. The bronchial arteries, going to the vesicula; of the lungs and the aorta. 12. The oesophageal arteries, going to the inferior part of the I oesophagus. 3. Eight pair of inferior intercostal arteries, which run to the inferior margin of eight lower ribs as far as the sternum. 4. The inferior diaphragmatic arteries, going to the dia- phragm. The descending aorta, in the abdomen, gives off eight brandies’. 1. The coeliac artery, which is single, and, passing under the stomach, is divided into three branches ; namely, The stomachic artery, going to the stomach. ■splenic, spleen, hepatic. liver. 2. The superior meseraic, which gives off branches to the intestines jejunum, coecum, and colon. .3. The renal arteries, going to the kidneys. 4. The spermatic arteries, descending in the, loins, pass through the abdominal rings, and go to the testicles ; but in women, they are distributed on the ovaria. 5. The inferior meseraic, running to the left side of the colon; it also gives off the internal liajinorroidal artery. 6. The lumbar arteries, which arc distributed in the muscles of the loins and abdomen. 7- The sacral arteries, wliich descend near the sacrum. 8. The iliac arteries, into which the aorta terminates,- or is divided near the last lumbar vertebra. THE ILIAC ARTERIES. The iliac arteries are divided into external and internal. The internal is also called the hypogastric, which, in the foetus, divides itself into six branches; but, in the adult, there are only five, which supply the parts in and about the pelvis. The external iliac leaves the cavity of the pelvis, passing under Poupart’s ligament, towards the thigh, at the groin; it is called the inguinal artery, which being continued down the thigh, is called the crural, or fe- moral ; and passing obliquely backwards, at the ca- vity of the ham, it is named the popliteal artery. The external iliac, in going out of the pelvis, gives oft the cpicastric, which ascends under the rectus abdominis muscle, as far as the sternum. ' The crural, or femoral, gives off many branches, going to the ’ muscles*of the thigh, and others, which are lateral branches, anastamosing with the recurrent arteries of the knee coming from the tibial artery. The popliteal artery, two inches under tl.' ham, is divided into the anterior and posterior tibial, and the pe- roneal : 1. The anterior tibial artery perforates the interosseal liga- ment, and descends on its anterior part as far as the top of the foot, which it perforates near the great toe, and passes into the sole of the foot. 2. The peroneal artery descends behind the fibula, and per- forates the. interosseal ligament at its interior part, going to the top of the foot, or instep. 3. The posterior tibial descends at the internal and posterior part of the tibia, passing into the sole of the toot, be- hind the inner ancle„and forms the arcus plantaris, from which the digital arteries are sent oft, P p SYSTEM