( «95 } external parts, by which different critical, or metas- tatic tumours arise. THE PKEDISPOSIXG CAU-SES OF DISEASES. The most frequent predisposing causes of diseases, are, Improper evolution of the foetus. Evolution of the feetug whilst in the uterus gives occasion to many diseases, according as it may be caused, too suddenly, or too slowly, or improperly, by which de- f fortuity, and particular marks have their origin. TEM PEUA.MENT OF BODY. The temperament of body is a peculiar constitution as to the humours, as, ' # 1. A sanguine temperament, in which red blood abounds, hence, true and spurious inflammations arise, and hreniorrhages. 2. A phlegmatic temperament, in which serum and mucus abound, hence, oedematous and aqueous tumours. 3. A bilious tenrperaincnt, in which bile abounds, hence, erysipelas and herpes. 4. A melancholic temperament, in which the blood is black and thick, hence, schirrus and cancerous aflections in these temperaments. 5. A fat temperament, in which fat every where abounds, hence, an easy suppuration, corpulency, &c. 6. A gelatinous temperament, in which a jelly abounds in all the fluids, as in the foetus and infants, hence, their growth and marks. 7. An irritable temperament, in which nervous influence^ abounds, hence, spasms and convulsions are easily- produced by a wound, or even slight cause. 8. A bad temperament, or cachetic, in which the humours are impregnated with some acrimony, or labour un- *dcr diseases. See acrimonies and discrasias. IDIOSYXCRASIA. Idiosyncrasia is a constitution peculiar to every one, by which a person is affected by external things dif- ferently from another, to this we may attribute faint- ing at the sight of a wound, or cat; inflammation of the Ctttis by the application of a medicine, which would not affect the skin of another, &c. dec, HABIT OF BODY. This is a peculiar constitution of the body, as to its solid parts, as, 1. An irritable habit, is that in which the nervous system is very sensile, and the muscles irritable, hence, when wounded tetanus or convulsion easily lollows, in- flammation is also easily brought on, S. A torpid habit, in which the nervous system possesses little sensility, and the muscles net easily excited, as in phlegmatic and melancholy people. 3, A robust habit, in which the fibres arc strong and clastic as in men and countrymen. 4. A weak habit, in which the fibres are weak, as in children* 6. A rigid habit, in which the fibres are stifl'as in madmen and old people. 6. -A. soft habit, in which the fibres are soft, lax, and pos- sessing little elasticity, as in women and infants. 7. A loan habit, in which the fibres are strong, without much cellular membrane. - 8. A fat habit, in which the fibres arfe soft and surrounded with much fat. 9. A diseased habit is the same as a cachectic or bad con- stitution. AGE. Each age has its peculiar diseases. 1. Infancy. The diseases, which are said to arise from in- fancy, are the thrush, inflammation, or ulceration of the navel, hydrocele, umbilical, or inguinal hernia, scald head, crusta lactea, chafing, discharge from the cars and eyes, itching or inflammation of the gums, difficult dentition, spina ventosa, scropluila. 2. Youth. On account of the great motion of blood to- wards the head, tisemorrhages of the nostrils, sore throat, redness of the eyes are observed in youth, about the time of puberty, spermatocele and tumours of the groin are observed from grovvih. 3. Manhood. This period of life brings on the inconveni- encies of piles, calculus, and gout. 4. Old age. The humours become acrid, and abounding-lri earth, which cause rigidity of the fibres and joints, , cuivation of the spine, deafness, and dimness of sight, or blindness, brittleness of the bones, and in- clination of wounds, and contusions, particularly of the tibia, to degenerate into foul ulcers. SEX. The male sex is subject to peculiar diseases about the geni- tals, as scrotal hernia, both true and spurious, phy- mosis, paraphymosis, inflammation, and induration of the testicle. Diseases of the female sex, also arise from various actions peculiar to their genitals and breasts, as in menstrua- tion and delivery, prolapsus of the vagina, rupture of the uterus or perineum, in the breasts, mastodinia, inflammation, induration, and cancer. THE STRUCTURE OF A PART. Every part of our body from its natural structure, is more subject to peculiar diseases than any other part, thus a schirrus takes place in the glands, and the most usual disease, of the adipose membrane is abcess, thus fistula in ano, very frequently arises from fat and putridity in the rectum. SYMPTO-