( >86 ) There can be an obstruction of the flux, and reflux of the humours, in any part, which depositions and accu- mulations amply demonstrate. ox THE DIVISION AND DIEFERENCE Of DISEASES. 'I'he whole course of every disease is divided in five stages, 1. The beginning is the stage, in which the disease com- mences. 2. The increase, when the disease is increasing. 3. The stage, in which it neither increases nor diminishes, called acme, or height. 4. The decrease, in which it decreases. 5. The termination, when the disease is quite at an end. The difference of diseases is divided into essential and ac- cidental. The essential differenco is, the natural difference of one dis- ease from another. The accidental difference is, that variety observed in the same disease, of great importance in practice. From the essential difference, diseases arc divided into classes, genera, species, and varieties. The accidental difference of diseases comes from their origin, time, seat, course, disposition, manner of living, sex, at>e, climate, and accidental circumstances, which are as various, as there arc varieties m human beings, ages, sexes, climates, seasons, &c. DIF VE HENCE OF DISEASES AS TO THEIR ORIGIN. ■\Vith regard to the origin or causes of diseases, they are divided into, 1. Hereditary, congencrate, and adventitious. Those are hereditary, which arise in children, from a disease of the parents, they can, therefore, be paternal or maternal, thus the venereal disease, calculus or stone, scrophula, gout, madness, cataract often descend from one "encration to another. O Those are called congenial, which the foetus contracts in the uterus, but in other respects, arc not hereditary, as marks, or moles, in particular places, hydrocephalus, bifid spine, and all deformities. All diseases arc named adventitious, which are contracted at birth, or afterwards, until death, all diseases are comprehended under this head, except hereditary and conggnerate. 2. Diseases arc distinguished into primary and secondary. Primary or protopathic, which do not arise from any other disease, but from their own particular cause, as a wound, contusion, or fracture. Secondary, or deuteropathic, arising from another disease, cither present or preceding, as luxation from a tu- mour within a joint, an ulcer from inflammation, and cataract after an operation. 3. Into pcndcmic, endemic, epidemic, and sporadic. Ftndemic, which aflect people in the same place, without contagion, as soldiers inarching in a dusty season are mostly all seized with opthalmia, thus a damp air gives many p-;oplc a rheumatic tooth ach. Endemic, which are peculiar to a people or coufitry, as struiiim are common to the inhabitants of moun- tainous countries, scorbutic ulcers to those living 6n the sea coast, and the plica polonica to the polenese. Epidemic, which attack many persons at the same time and place, thus carbuncles, pestilential buboes, putrid sore throats, now and then rage epidemically. Sporadic, which are observed every where and at all times, even epidemic diseases are sometimes observed to be sporadic, thus a person only may be attacked by a putrid sore throat, or have a carbuncle. 4. Into true, fletitious, and artifleial diseases. Those are true which come naturally. Artificial, which arc produced by art, as ulcers by a seton, issue, or blister. Fictitious, as pretended lameness, elephantiasis, spots, or apparent blotches, made by painting, a pretended w'olf in the stomach, and other counterfeited diseases invented by beggars and impostors to excite com- passion, &c. 5. Into legitimate and spurious. Those arc legitimate, which have a true disposition. Those are sjiuriuus, which take on the appearance of other diseases, and have no radical disposition of disease, thus liciiiice and aneurisms arc distinguished intw true and false. 6. Into diseases from an internal, or external cause. Diseases from an internal cause, or spontaneous, which arise from a vitiated state of the fluids or solids, without any external cause, as cachexies, icterus, scurvy, schropliula, &c. ulcers from a scorbutic, schrophulous, or any other acrimony. Diseases from an exteimal cause, or violence, arise from some --^xtenraT aft'ection, as ulcers by blistering, inflam- mation by a contusion, catarrhs and fevers, by mu- tations in the air, ^c. DIFFERENCE IN THE SEAT OF DISEASED. Diseases are distinguished with regard to their seat. 1. Into extenial, which are situated on the external surface of tlic body, as some eruptions, wounds, ulcer, or tumour. 2. Into internal, which occupy some cavity in the body, as ascites, bydrothorax, byilroceplialus, wounds of the viscera, an eft'usion of blood; water in the head, ab- domen, or in the thorax, caries of a joint, spina ventosa, &c. 3. Into tffgwe, or flying, which travel from place to place, as moveable erysipelas, rheumatisms, vague atliritis, or gout. 4. Iwio fixed, which constantly remain in the place they first attacked, as pleurisy, peupneumony, &c. wliich is the case in most diseases. 5. JicfrooTflf/c, which sometimes affect an external pait, then an internal, thus the gout, or erysipelas suddenly leaves