( 10 ) w. ^ > . PLATE yill. The FibreSf a7id other Parts, forming Muscles, viened by a Microscope, ^c. Figure I. Represents a piece of the ghitacus magnus mus- cle, or great muscle of the posteriors, of an adult, not boiled but fresh, in which are shewn the different thickness and figure of the lacerti, muscular subdivisions, or fasciculi, as they appear to the naked eye. a. a. Is the exterior part of the muscle and the vagina which covers it. b. b. b. b. Are separations caused by that vagina, and pe- netrate into the substance of the muscle, by which the mus- cle is divided into \z.Tgc muscular divisions, or lacerti. c. c. c. c. Are the sections of those lacerti, appearing of different magnitude and figure. cd. cd. cd. Shew the parallel course of those lacerti. Figure II. Is a small piece of boiled human flesh, or mus- cle, taken from the glutaeus magnus muscle, marked 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. The boundaries and divisions which dis- tinguish these lacerti are expressed by a single thick line. It appears, that the greater lacerti are composed of smaller, which can be seen plainly in 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6'. 7. And those smaller lacerti consist again of those of the smallest size; but I have delineated this only in No. S. Figure III. Shews a lamella of the lacertus i. in the fig, II. ’ cut off transversely. This lamella is delineated so, as it has appeared by a glass, augmenting the objects five times in diameter. a. a, a. a. The Bag-i/ic surrounding the greater lacertus. b. b. b. b. It&processes, going to the other lacerti, which are only in some part shewn. c. c. c. c. Separations, which arc produced by the va'dna of the lacertus major, and divide it into eight smaller. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. The 5/wo//er/flcertf divided out of the majbr. 7. In this lacertus is particularly shewn, how each minor lacertus by membraneous separations, is divided into smallest. 8. Here is shewn how each smallest lacertus is composed of muscular fibres^ Figure Ii\(. In this figure is shewn, a small piece of boiled human muscular fibre in its length, seen by a glass, magnify- ing the.objects four hundred times. In the boiled muscles, examined with such microscopes, the transverse white wrinkles aie nothing but superficial impressions of. the vessels and cellular threads, and perhaps of. small nerves in the vagina,of the fibre. When muscles are boiled, they shrink the fibres in many places, and impress more or less those transverse wrinkles, called rugie. Figure V. Is another boiledof human flesh, or mus- cle, seen through the same microscope as in the precedim' figure. But in this, partly by maceration, partly by gentle compression, the outer vagina is nearly destroyed, and there- fore the f la cornea rugosa, which compose the muscular fiibrcs, are more conspicuous. Figure VI. Are three fila carnca, or fleshy threads, whose wrinkles, or greater windings a, a. a, arc in place of those which are seen in the fig. V. FigureVll. A single fleshy thread, or flum cameum, seen through the same microscope, whose serpentine windings arc clearly observable. Figure VIII. Another filum carneum; has transverse wrinkles, which cut the filum as it were into little globules, or joints. Figure IX. The transverse sections of three muscular fibres of the human flesh ; are included in their sheaths. They are delineated by the same microscope as fig., VII. VIII. In each of those transverse sections of three fibres, very small, and a great many areohe appear. Figure X. Is a transverse section of two muscnlar fibres, ex Gado mutatio Binnaei, whereof one is bigger, the other smaller, also seen with the glass, magnifying the diameter four hundred times, that it may be seen how the fita cornea, or fleshy small threads, do not differ from the human in thickness. FigurcXl. The smallest fasciclilus of muscular fibres, seen, through a glass, magnifying thirty times. a. a. a. a. Muscular fibres in the smallest fasciculus. b. b. b. b. Wrinkles and alternate windings of the fascicu- lus itself. Figure XII. Besides those wrinkles, whifch we have seen in the preceding figure, and wliich compose the smaller wrinkles of the muscular fasciculus, are often smaller yet in the fibre itself, which 1, have found in boiled beef, smallest fasciculus of which I have delineated by the same mici«- scope. Figure XIII. Here is given a lamella of.tho injected supina- tor longus muscle, of a child of six montlis oUI. This la- mella is drawn from a glass, magnifying the diameter one hundred times. a. Extremities torn eff from the muscular fibres, which atP much thinner than in an adult person. b. h. Two principal arterial branches., c. c. c. c. The smaller branches cut off. d. d. d. d. The smallest branches. Beyond those smallest vessels, tho-coloured injection will not penetrate ; for the smaller vessels are not permeable lo the matter of injection, and in particular to the cinnabar, which gives the colour to the injection; but there are minute coloui'cil injections, which pass much farther than cinnabar, and tinge, almost all the parts of muscles, so that they appejtt nearly vascular in every part of their substance..