HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ill was instructed in the Medical Art by his mother Isjs, it must be evident that he was not the inventor j nor cou Id Apollo be entitled to that honour, if he were the same person as Horus. But Bacchus, king of the Assyrians, Lybians, and Indians, was esteemed by his people, as invemtor of medicine. The Egyptians attributed the invention to Hermes, who was the Mercury of the Romans, the Grecian monuments testify, that the same honour was given to Aisculapius, We therefore find several reputed inventors of Medicine. Amidst such difference of opinion, all the ancients agree in one point, that some Deity was its inventor, which is also con- firmed by Hippocrates, Libro de Vet Med. and by Cicero, in Ti/sc. L. HI. “ Dconim immortalitm inventioiii conseaafa nt “ ars medica.” The Sacred History agrees with this sentiment, “ Every cure is from GOD.”—Again, “The Most High created the medi- “ cincs of the earth.” But we shall not dispute about that: every thing we enjoy arc the gifts of GOD ; none but the impious ever doubted it; none but fools have dared to deny it. It is our business to enquire, who was the first person that became so eminent in the art as to deserve the reputation of being the inventor. It is very evident, that nothing certain can be decided in such doubtful affairs : and I cannot forbear smiling at critics, who lose their time and trouble in such endless pursuits; for the whole is absurdity, and must strike every reflecting mind, that Medicine was invented by no individual, nor reduced into an art by tlic labour of one person only, but practised by every one occasionally, according to necessity, by various experiments, in different nations; afterwards, the number of remedies and observations being increased by a variety of cases, the general knowledge got into the hands of a few, who devoted their time to the removal of diseases, and studied Physic as a profession. Whoever these were, they must have been the first Physici- ans, although their field of science was not extensive : but, however little they knew of Medicine, possessing more information than the generality of mankind, they were highly respected; one of them, more eminent than the rest, who had, perhaps, cured a greater number of patients, or the principal Physician of a particular nation, w'as esteemed inventor of the art, although, in fact, this was not the case, and the profession very imperfect, and the title conferred more honorary than just. Hence we find, that each nation had its inventor of Medicine, who was, by skill and success, superior to his cotemporaries.—I am of opinion, that the various histories may be adjusted, and the useless disputes of critics easily conciliated. Baglivi speaks very much to the purpose, in saying, “ Necessity discovered Medicine; experience perfected it, which, in the early ages, was “ inconsistent and uncultivated ; but in time, by the daily accession of new observations corroborating each other, and par- “ ticularly by the influence and government of reason, it has become a learned and liberal art.”—Lib. I. Cap. II. Sec. I. We know, on the authority of Strabo and Herodotus, that there was an ancient custom amongst the Assyrians, Babylonians,' Chaldeans, &c. of exposing their sick in the public roads and forum, to request medical assistance from passengers. Strabo, speaking of the Assyrians, observes, “ It was an established custom for them to expose the sick in the “ public ways, to enquire of passengers whether they knew any remedy for such disease ; for no person, possessing information “ on the subject, was so illiberal as to be restrained from giving it with pleasure.” To efiect this purpose with greater cer- tainty, it was decreed by public law, that no person was permitted to pass the sick, without being interrogated, or menti- oning a remedy, if he knew one: which is also well described by Herodotus, in the following passage, “ There was a wise “ law in force amongst the Babylonians, to carry their sick into the forum, as they were totally without Physicians : those who ^ “ approached the sick, consulted together, whether they had personally laboured under the same complaint, or remembered to “ have seen others in that situation, and agreed to attempt, what then had been done to restore health ; nor was it usual to “ pass by in silence, if they had even nothing but enquiries to make about the disease.” From these documents, we must again observe, that Physic was cultivated, during the earliest ages of antiquity, in a vague indeterminate manner, by any person promiscuously', according to circumstances, before the establishment of Physicians, hledicine, therefore, was not invented by one man alone; but the foundation of this art was laid by the collateral experiments and observations of many. The Chaldeans were the ancient Philosophers of the Assyrians, on the authority of Strabo, who says, “ There was an establishment of learned natives formed at Babylon, who discoursed chiefly on Philosophy, and were called Chaldei.” 'The most eminent of these were called Magi, a name then considered very honourable, and only appropriated to learned men. It is not perfectly clear, whether they studied Medicine in particular ; or, as a part of Philosophy, some assert, but •'without c^irtain evidence, that Zoroaster, king of the Bactriani, had a knowledge of IMedicihe. 'I’lic same king is said to be the