Ixiv HISTORY OF MEDICINE. such parts as are chilled, and ulcerated by cold, also for corroding ulcers in the fundament, privy parts, womb, and bladder. To all these, heat is acceptable, and promotes a crisis; (x) but cold is an enemy, and destructive. But cold is profitable, where there is or will be a flux of blood ; not that it should be applied to the very place, but thereabouts, to prevent its afflux. Jf there be any inflammations, or burnings tending to a red, and bloody colour, caused by a new flux of blood, then apply cold things to them, for it induces a blackness upon inveterate sores, (a) It helps any erysipelas, which is not ulcerated, and hurts it when it is ulcerated. Abundance of cold water, thrown on those who have tumors in their joints, without ulcers, also gout, and convulsions, (b) mitigates and extenuates them, and removes pain, (c) For a moderate stupefaction, or numbness, has the power of removing pain. OF WOUNDS, &c. HIPPOCRATES, in his Treatise De Ulceribus, which is allowed to be genuine, forbids a recent wound to be washed with any thing but wine, unless it happened in the joints. To wounds, attended with swelling, a cataplasm is advised, not to the wound itself, but the surrounding parts, rest and ease, (d) The diet is also to be moderate, and if the wound be not in the abdomen, (e) it is to be suffered to bleed freely, which empties the vessels. If a wound be not thoroughly cleansed, it will neither heal spontaneous!}", nor even when the lips are brought in contact. Oils, or unctuous remedies, are not proper for recent wounds. In many wounds which threaten a suppuration, purging is useful, (f) In cedematous swellings, in the adipose membrane of the feet, small 'incissions are necessary; f'gd and in a varix the vessels should be punctured in dif- ferent places, that the blood may flow' in small quantities, from the little orifices. In the Book De Officina Medica, he gives a very ample account of the chirurgical apparatus; this he performs with much accuracy, and judgment; indeed, with some little addition, it would appear more like a modern production, than that of so ancient an author. Any bone, cartilage, or nerve, cut asunder, will neither be regenerated with new parts, nor augmented, (h) nor will they unite again, (i) A bone cut to its cavity, causes a delirium. A bone cut off, the thin part of the eye-led divided, or the praeputuim, do not unite again, (k) A wound in the bladder, brain, heart, diaphragm, the small intestines, (1) stomach or liver, is mortal. He obsen'es, that if no swelling appear in large wounds, it is an ill sign, (m) OF WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. In the book De Capit. Vuincribus, it is affirmed, that he who is wounded in the head, is in the most hopeful state, wlienj he does not become feverish, has no eruption of blood, or inflammation, succeeding the injury, no pain is felt; but if any of j these symptoms appear, they are most favourable, when they do so in the beginning, and remain only for a short time:f;j> whereas, fevers seizing patients, wounded in the head, on the fourth, seventh, or twelfth day, generally prove mortal, (o) IfJ the hairs be cut by the weapon, and arc fixed in the wound, we may then assert the bone is injured; for w'hile the wounding] instrument, though sullicieutly sharp, (p) only penetrates the soft integuments of the cranium, the hairs follow the impression] made by the weapon, without being cut. But when the hairs are struck against the hard bone, they can no longer yield to the] edge of the instrument, but must of course be cut. A w'ound of the head is not to be moistened wdth any thing, not even with wine, or at least with very little; neither docs] such a wound require cataplasms nor liniments, (q) In recounting of those wounds of the head that require incision, he] mentions those that have not length and breadth, sufficient to discover whether the bone has been injured by the weapon. When! (i) Effects of heat and cold in ulcers. (c) Apli. 25. Sect. V. (c) The wound to be suffered to bleed. ^g) Incissions in oedematous swellings. fkj Coac. III. 374. ad. 382. 11 Prasdict. 1 Morb. III. 32, 33, (f) 11 Prajdict. XIX. 2 Aph. 18. Sect. VI. (n) Favourable symptoms. , (jJ Dc vul. cap. Sect. XVII. (^b) Humid, us. X. 14, 15. (i) Aph. 24. Sect. VII. (a) Aph. 23. Sect. V. (d) Rest and moderate-diet. (fj Purging when necessary. (h) Aph. 28. Sect. VII. VII. 21. Aph. 19. Sect. VI. (»i) Frognosticof wounds. 11 Epid. III. 12. XXIII. 1. Aph 66. (o) Fatal. (p) De vulner. capit. (r) Dc capit, vulaciibus Sect. XVIII. What wounds require enlarging.