( 174 ) At EVOLUTION OF THE EMBRYO. The vivified oviilum, carried from the vesicle of the ovarium into the cavity of the uterus, seems already to consist of three membranes, the liquor of the amnion, the placenta, umbilical chord and embryo. But all these parts are so small and transparent, that in the first few days they cannot be distinguished. The semen seems to excite the heart of the embryo to motion; it then begins to move the humours in the aorta, and all the vessels: thus the humour goes into tiie heart from the vena cava and pulmonary vein, and the first circulation of humours begins. Then the ovulum, by conception, being shut up in the cavity of the uterus, in the first days, swims in a liquor which it attracts; thus the liquor of the amnion is increased, and the ovulum becomes large enough to fill the cavity of the uterus. The external surface of the ovulum then adheres to the inter- nal surface of the uterus, and surrounded by the fibrous texture of the ovulum and uterus ; the superior part of tlie ovulum, which contains the placenta, con- cretes with the vessels of the uterus, so that the vessels of each are joined by anastamosis. Thus the blood of the mother flows from the uterus into the placenta, and thence through the umbilical vein of the chord into the embryo; but that part of the blood, which is not used for nutrition, returns by the umbilical arteries of the foetus into the placenta. By this passing and re-passing of the blood, all the vessels of the foetus are longated, dilated, and nourished; thus the foetus, and all its parts continually increase till delivery. The diversity of appearance of the embryo seems to consist in the difference of stimulus in the semen; but it is not known how this is effected. Nutrition is conveyed to the foetus, both by the umbilical • vein; and, perhaps, by the liquor of the amnion. The foetus has no excretions; that is, neither urine nor feces: nor does it perspire. As long as the foetus is in the uterus, it does not breathe, nor is it afl'ceted by the air. CIRCULATION OF BLOOD IN TIIE FOETUS. The blood of the umbilical vein comes partly from the vena portarum, and partly from the canalis venosus, which goes from the vena porta into the vena cava; but the lungs, being contracted and collapsed, the greatest part of the blood passes through the foramen, ovale, and canalis arteriosus: a very small part passes through the lungs; the most considerable part of the blood is returned into the placenta by the umbilical arteries. SLEEP AND WAKING OF THE FOETUS. The continued motion of the embryo, and cause of sleep being wanting, occasion it to be continually awake. SITUATION OF TIIE EMBRYO. In the first montJis of pregnancy, the head is uj)pormost, and the face forwards; but in the latter mouths, on account of the increased 'Nvcight of the head, it is downwards, and the face backwards. The external surface of the foetus is smeared over with a - fatty substance, secreted by the cutaneous glands, by which it obviates the macerating quality of the liquor of the amnion, and is more easily delivered at the time of birth. The cranium of the foetus has membranous sutures; and the bones consist of different portions, that the head may be compressed, and diminished in size, during the time of delivery. The life of the foetus consists in the circulation of blood,, which takes place at the very moment of conception. But the animation of the foetus consists of the conjunction of body and mind ; hence, this may take place at the same instant of conception, or at the first res- piration after birth; since no animal life can exist without a soul. According to the number of female ovula, in a state of matu- rity—one, two, three or four foetus are Impregnated by a single coitus. SUPERFETATION Is the impregnation of a woman already pregnant, which usually happens from the uterus being double. MONSTERS Seem to be occasioned by a praeternatural formation of the embryo. BREGNANCY. Soon after conception, the orifice of the uterus contracts, and is closed by a viscid humour. The uterus then becomes larger and heavier ; and in tlie first month, occupies part of the pelvis: but in the latter months, being much increased in size, it occiqiies most of the cavity of the abdomen. The menses cease; the breasts swell a little : pregnant women frequently vomit, and suffer other inconveniences, which arise from compression of the viscera, increased irritability of the body, retention of the mensgs, and stimulus of the foetus.