■( 3* ) o PLATE XXIX. t ^ The Ganglions and Plexuses of Nerves, Figure I. Is a portion of the right nerve of the third pair of the cerebrum. Part of this nerve, which yet runs down in the cavity of the cranium, and has its involucrum from the pia mater only. In this part are observed interrupted striae sufficiently deep, penetrating into the medullary substance of this nerve, which are formed from the septa of the pia mater, ' sent down into that substance, and those vascular. Similar strioey originating from the same cause, are seen in the optic nerves; before entering into the orbits they acquire invoiucray or covering, from the dura mater. 1 t c. Here more strongly finding an involucrum, it goes into thicker and concatenated funicles. i rf. Is a cord from a branch of the ophthalmic nerve running to the third ramus of the third pair of the cerebrum. Figure IL That portion of the nerves of the fifth pair of the'cc* rebrum, which is principally contained in the cavity of the I cranium, taken away, and the dura mater nudatod is seen ! on the superior part. I a. Trunk of the fifth pair of jaerves of the cerebrum, con- sisting of many nervous cords of unequal thickness, and i uiurertain number, so that 70, 90, and even 100, have been discovered. ^ These cords arc multiplied to infinity, and concate- nated together, which concatenation, the most scknt^c ojiatvfnist^ have not remarked, but have only nepresented their parallel and united course. H. Semilunar ganglion of Gasser, which, derived its name from the discoverer, «. First branch of the fifth pair^ or t\\a ophthalmic deprived; of its cellular involuciaim. i. Second branch of the same, or superior maxillary. t. Third branch, or maxillaris inferior. Upon taking away, the ccllulous involucrum of these three rami, it is evident" that each is composed of indiny j'uniculi frequently couca.- knated together. Figure Ilf.. Is a nerve of the fifth pair of the cerebrum- of. the same side, beheld on its inferior part. ««. Trunk of the fifth pair,. 4 i.. Its semilunar ganglion,. c. First, or opthalmic ramus. d. Second branch, or superior maxillary.. e. Third ramus, or maxillaris inferiory which gives off three evident rami, of which f. First, sends off pterygoid, masseteric, temporal, buc- cinatory branches, &c. g. Second, inferior maxillary, ox alxcolari's, properly speaking, h Third, lingual. These two last, at their commencement, are covered with much cellulous substance, so as to appear to form one trunk. i. Is a peculiar fasciculus of nervous funiculi under the trunk of the fifth pair, which arising from almost a common origin with the fiftli pair under the semilunar ganglion in a peculiar impression, runs into that ganglion, i. Portion of the sixth pair of the cerebrum nuining through the sinus cavernosus, consisting of one cord, after its origin or insertion of the great intercostal nerve becoming somewhat thicker, and having two short striae impressed on it. h Origin of the great intercostal nerve, or rather, as it were, double posterior and anterior insertion into the nerve of the. sixth pair, consisting of many and very thin funicles, which suddenly run.together,,and are again dissolved. Figure IV.. A view of another nerve of the fifth pair of the right,, ■vdewed on the inferior side, together with the neighbour- ing portion of the nerve of the sixth pair. a. Trunk of the nerve of the fifth pair, bb. Semilunar ganglion, through which, towards the inferior; maxillary branch, many funiculi inesolvcd pass. e. Fii-bt branch.. (L Second branch. c.. Third branch. f. Peculiar fasciculus of nervous funicles under the semiltv» nar ganglion, going towards the uiferior maxilla. g-. Portionof the sixth pair of the cerebrum. h. Another origin of the great intercostal nerve, orsyinpa- theticUs inagnus of Winslow, different from the former, but which is frequently observed, This other nexus of the 6th pair of nerves, with the ophthalmic, is not found by Haller and many others; unless cellular and vascular;* but not at all by any nervous funicles, neither from the opththalmic to the great intercostal, any neiwous root is cutoff, and unless a subtile injection of the vessels with, coloured liquor penetrate, the observator is easily mis- taken..