( 192 ) , the soft parts, and perturbation of the brain, or ' spinal marrow. 8. A cannon ball flying past, though not touching the person ! may break, or luxate a bone, bring on ecchymosis, or burn the soft parts and disturb the brain. 9. A cannon ball touch.ing a part mostly carries it away, seldom bruises it only. 10. A vvjskct ball coming in the direction of our body, passes through it entirely; in part, or only touches it ; consequently various wounds and contusions are occasioned. 11. ^ piercing penetrating reound, forms a rugged foramen. 12. A superficial v:ound, or scratch, sanguineous excoriations, which especially in old persons, and those of a bad habit of body, ulcerate. 13. Hard-friction, upon a part produces excoriation of the palm of the hand from work, or of the sole of the foot by walking, of the thighs by riding; sanguineous excoriation on the breast of a woman, from violence in giving suck to an infant. 14. Extension of a part, which is either sudden or gradual; by sudden great pain, laceration of the vessels and nerves follow,occasioning ecchymosis, inflammations and tetanus, whilst gradual extension is frequently experienced without dangerous symptoms, but if the extending, or distending cause be suddenly removed, as water in the hydrocele, mdema, or ascites, gan- grene, or effusions of blood sometimes follow. 15. Contortion of a member occasions luxations, fractures, and ecchymosis from ruptured vessels. iC. Compression on a part, generally brings on mortification; on an artery, it occasions an emptiness, or dryness of the veins; on a vein, it causes oedema; on a nerve, it is productive of paralysis and withering. ir. Commotion is a violent concussion of the whole body, or of one part only, thus by a violent leap from a great height, the whole body is put out of order; by the violent motion of the head only, and from a pertur- bation of the brain, various symptoms arc occasioned, as loss of'thc senses, both internal and external. TniNGS EXTERNALLY APPLIED. Under this head arc considered, 1. The cloaths, which may do mischief, by compression or composition, as The head, by the use of haliy caps is made too hot, which oc- casions a greater determination of blood to the head and favours the production of vermin. The neck being too closely girted by a cravat, occasions red- ness of the eyes, and haemorrhage from the nostrils, apoplexy, rupture of the blood vessels, of the brain, lethargy, and death. The breast, being improperly cloathed, causes deformity, ex- coriation of the axilla, and swelling of the arm. The legs become ulcerated by coarse linen stockings. The feet have corns from wearing tight shoes. 2. Bandages improperly applied for inflamed parts, rolled up too closely, go into gangrene and sphacelus, or mor- tification, which is sometimes observed in fractures. 3. Poisons applied externally, thus arsenic, or Corrosive sub- limate, sprinkled on ulcers, have been known to bring on mortification and death, from the bite of a viper, gangrene emphysema, and sometimes death follow* from the bite cf a mad dog, hydrophobia follows. 4. Contagion, which is a morbid matter passing out of the body of a sick person into that of a healthy one, such as in infectious putrid fevers, the lues veneres,* cancer, carbuncles, and the plague. 5. Improper 7ncdicinft, thus rancid ointments applied to fresh wounds cause them to degenerate into foul ulcers. By the application of hot things to chilblains, suddenly, or to frost nipped persons, gangrene is brought on ; by greasy dressings to eryspelas, foul ulcers, sometimes, and gangrenes are produced. 6. Some insects whose bite cause spreading inflammation, or tubercles, as wasps, gnats, and lice, cause itching ; some flics settle upon wounds and ulcers, leaving their filth upon them. 7. Extraneous things carried into the body irritate, hence they cause inflammation and suppuration, by which they frequently are excluded. Swallowing a pin, which perforating the rectum, made its way into the ovarium and uterus, causing dreadful misery some years, and ending fatally. The true cause was never discovered of this irremediable case, until the body was opened, at the St. Wary-le-bone Infirmary, where the woman had long been before she died; then, the life-destroying pin was extracted in the pre- sence of myself and pupils. 8. Cold, or the matter of ice, makes chilblains (sec dis- eases proceeding from cold.) 9. Fire occasions inflammation, suppuration, and mortifica- tion, dry heat brings on a dry gangrene, moist heat, as boiling water, causes watery vesicles to rise, in- flammations ; or produces a moist gangrene. 10. Thunder, which seems to be concentrated electric fire, causes wonderful burnings, marks, fractures of the bones, perturbation of the brain and nerves, and sometimes death itself, without any apparent vio- lence, either external or internal. 11. Too strong light falling on the retina, occasions winking, confused vision, amblyopia, and amaurosis. 12. The rays of the sun, when very strong, cause freckles, and spots in the face, and sneezing ; browns the rcte mucosum, and darkens the colour of the skin. 13. Sound, 1 have known the sound from a heavy discharge of cannon, bring on difliculty of hearing, deafness, discharge of blood from tbe car, likewise the teeth are set on edge, by a disagreeable sound; and those who are musical amateurs, amongst whom I reckon myself, on hearing false tones, expeiience the most ungrateful sensations; but from true harmony, in- expressible delight. of