( 35 ) * * ‘ ^ ■ . f ' ' ' PLATE XXXIII, Dc Nerm Sympathica Magno; or. Of the great Sympathetic Nerve. ’t Represents the nerves in the right side of the body running tb the heart, and their pkxus, between the aorta, pulmonary artery, and trachea. The proper and relative situation of many nerves is changed, otherwise they would not be clearly exhibited, or in any way delineated. Thus, the sub - clavian artery is cut off; the common, external, and internal carotid, with other sanguiferous vessels; also may be seen the aorta drawn on the left side. The appearance oj^ the head, with the larynx, pharynx, trachea, and oesophagus; which being deprived of the posterior cellular structure, by which the adjacent parts adhere, by so much they secede from the bodies of the left vertebne. But the par vagum, with the re- current nerve, and other nerves coming forth from that, as likewise tlie vena cava superior of the right side are removed. A. Part of the right external ear. B. Mamillary process covered by the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. C. D. Stcrno-chido-mastoid muscle; C. their insertion into the os occipitis and temporal bones; D. separated from the sicraum and clavicle, and reclined upwards and posteriorly, E. The splenic muscle of the head, by which it is inserted into the os occipitis. F. Musculus biveutur cervicis, and especially its extremity in- serted into the os occipitis; the whole cucullaris muscle is taken away, G. Il.I. Musculus biventer marillie inferioris; G. its first venter; Il.Tendu medius: and I. second venter irrscrled in the maxilla inferior. K. Musculus stylo-hyoideus, annexed to the basis of the hyoid bone, which in this body was found divided into two flat I portions, between which two bellies the tendon was seated. L. Maxillary gland ; which in part covers the biventer muscle of the nvixilla inferior, or rather is marked with a longitudinal sulcus, in which this muscle is situated^ M. Parotid gland. N H, Part of the/Ha.i77/a i;j/crior dcnuclatcd. ^ OOO. An incision of the common integuments. PP. M\s&c\ii\i%stylo-pharyngeus, in part conspicuous. Q. Superior constrictor muscle of the pharynxi I E, Middle constrictor. ‘ S S, Inferior constrictor. T. Mo&cvdiio&sterno-thyroideus. \ V. r sternorhyoidcufi, W. Another venter of the coracoid muscle (inserted in the ia» frtiur and anterior part of the basis of the as hyoidcs, with ■ft part of the miUtUc tendon,. X. Musculus hyo-thyroideus. Y y. The right and left mylo-hyoid muscles, inserted in the base ofthe hyoid bo ne. Z. Musculus ceratoglossus, arising from a horn of the os hyoidis. / r. Part of tlie thyroid gland. A A. (Esophagus. © ©. Aspera arferiar or trachea; dividing on the lower part into two branches, which arc usually called bronchia. A. S, II. S. <1>. T. Bodies of the vertebrae of the neck; A. of the second; H. third ; II, fourth; S, fifth ; sixth ; T. seventh from the head. Cl. a. b. Bodies of the dorsal vertehree; Cl. of the first; a. of the second; b. three from the neck. The bodies of the vertebrae of the neck and back, upon removing the sangui- ferous vessels, and reclining the pharynx and larynx on the right, here come in sight. c. The longus colli. d. rectus capitis internus major. e c. scalenus prior, divided into three caudae. ^ J f f. scalenus medius. g g. lateralis, with its superior cauda running to- the transverse process of the third vetebra; inthis body it is thicker than usual. h. Musculus frrafor ^ i. The axillary artery. k. Arteria. thoraciceexterna s. secunda. I in n. Three superior ribs ; 11. first; m.m, second ; nn. third- o o. External intercostal muscles. \ pp.. Internal, qq.. rr. s. Eight lung; q q. its convex s. external surface r r. internal plane surface, running towards the mediastinum reclined on the right hand; s. an incissure, dividing the su- perior and middle lobe. 11. Convex s. external surface ofthe left lung. 'I he whole of this lung appears compressed from the arch of the aorta. being drawn on the left. u. v. Two fleshy parts of the diaphragm, c; u. right; v. left; conspicuous on its superior t convex surface. w w w. X. Pericardium in- part left; w w w. its lateral parts X. inferior part connected with the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. y. Vena cava superior^ moved out of its situation on the riglit, whence the vena azygos appears aiittie retracted. z. Vcr.a