HISTORY OF MEDICINE xcvii III. Phlegm, possessing the properties of water, cold and moist. IV. Black bile, (atrabilis) like earth, cold and dry. He also argued that various temperaments, or constitutions were produced by the different admixtures of these qualities, and di><3rdcrs generated by a predominance of one or other of them, or from being too much rarided; he again sub- divided the four qualities into four degrees, thus; the first degree of heat was natural to man; the second degree produced fever; the third occasioned inflammation; the fourth gangrene,and sphacelus. He went still farther, and divided medicines, not only according to these qualities, but even their four degrees, for example; if a disorder was esteemed to be cold in the se- cond degree, it was Judged necessary to administer a remedy in the second degree, &c. which is still the Asiatic practice. But these speculations did not so much prevent the increase of medicine, as the ignorance and indolence of after ages; who, struck with the authority and eloquence of Galen, all acquiesced in his dogmas, and never thought of improving me- dicine, which they considered so perfect, that it had arrived at the ne plus vltra, therefore no important addition, was made to the stock of knowledge in physiology, anatomy, and the materia medica, for almost fourteen centuries. Galen is, therefore, not to be censured so much for his labours to perfect dogmatic medicine, for he also cultivated the materia medica, and botany ; he likewise taught the method of removing many diseases by diet only, and of curing obstinate maladies by copious bleedings, and cauteries. He encompassed the whole science of medicine in all its extensive branches, and, in his wiitings, treats diffusively on anatomy, physiology, pathology, semiolica, hygiene, therapeutics, and surgery, so completely, that Haller says, no man is to be compared with him in these things, nor any person since his time laboured with so much assiduity and ardour. Van Helmont’s attack on Galen, calling him a plagiary, is void of probability, for he readily gives you the sentiments of other men, and rescues from obscurity, fragments of their works, which are not to be found elsewhere. It is to him we are obliged for many historical facts and improvements, not to be found in any other writer. After the time of Galen, there arc but five celebrated physicians, whose works have come down to us ; these are. Caelius Aurclianus, the methodist. Oribasius, (ij iEtius, Alexander Tralliauus, who has described diseases with singular accuracy, and Paulus iEgineta, the most diffusive on surgery of ancient auth« rs. For thirteen centuries after Galen’s time, medicine not only remained destitute of improvement, but shared the fate of all other sciences, by being corrupted and neglected. For in the fifth century of the Christian tera, the Vandals, Visigoths, and afterwards the Ostrogoths, people inhabiting the north, poured down in immense numbers on the southern and best cultivated part of Europe, desolating all before them, and destroying the most valuable libraries, as well as populous and flourishing cities. In the seventh century, the Saracens began to spread destruction on all sides; Egypt was reduced by the Turks, and Alexandria, the seat of medicine, with its valuable and very extensive library, containing seven hundred thousand volumes, taken and destroyed. All the papers and books were used by those barbarians for heating their warm baths, of which there were four thousand in that city, and so great was the collection, that it answered the purpose for six months continually. Such was the fete of this library, which, in the time of Julius Ciesar, lost fourkundred thousand books by fire. In the eighth century Spain was conquered by the African Saracens. At this time, those writings of the Greeks, that had escaped the general destruction, and were scattered in various parts,, began to be t.aken notice of by the Arabians, particularly the dogmas and precepts of Galen in medicine, which were translated and explained in Arabic; and students in medicine wcie obliged to apply to them alone for knowledge. They had public medical schools at Toledo and Corduba, in Spain, whither foreigners and others were obliged to resort. Their principal jyhystcians were Rbases, Avenzoar, Aviceuna, Averrhoes, and Mesue, a Christian, Their widely spread re- putation induced strangers to visit Spain to acquire medical information. Van Helmont justly censures them in these words, “ Europei desperantes xelut tota animi vis silfi effucta esset, barbaris “ ventis stare, et peregrina excoluissc duxerunt satis, lUorum autem comment a in novas in dies centurias redegisse nedum non ingenerosum putarunt, sed honori dtuxrunt sapere ex Commentario duntaxat” c c For> (h) As may be seen in the materia medica of the modern Eastern nations. (i) OubasLus has given almost tl»e complete anatomy of Galen; and it will appear to all judges that it is not so imperfect as many hare sup- posed, especially the myology, neurology, &c.