( i83 ) high inflammation, and in cavities, which arc much distended. 5. Diaeresis, or a wound into a vessel, or cavity of the cranium, thorax, or abdomen. 6. Mixis, or rupture of vessels or cavities, as rupture of the navel, in ascites of the capsular ligament in luxation •of veins in the piles, and of an artery in anearism. 7. Diabrosis, or the erosion of any cavity by acidmony, caustic, or ulceration. There are also seven species of morbid passage in vessels or cavities. 1, Emphraxis, or an obstruction of vessels or passages, as the humour not having power to pass through the vessel or duct. 2. Stenockoria, or a stoppage of the passage, by a swelling of the side of the cavity, or canal; thus a swelling of the internal membrane produces stenchoria of the oesophagus, urethra, or vagina. 3, Thilipsis, or compression of a vessel, or cavity, from some cause situated beyond it, as a schirrus under the axilla, by compressing the brachial artery, brings on a dryness of the arm. 4. The contractility of a cavity, or a preternatural con- traction of any vessel, or canal, by a spontaneous contractile power, thus sudden contraction of the urethra, causes an ischury, or impossibility of mak- ing water. 6. Sinizesis, ora preternatural collaping of vessels or ducts ; thus the umbilical vessels are obliterated after birth. 6. or a preternatural junction, or concretion of vessels, as happens in vessels and other canals in old age. 7. Too great a Rarmr««J in an apertuse, or canal, as in a phymosis of the prepuce, or in the arch of the rectum, &c. DISEASES OF MAGNITUDE, OR SIZE. The size of parts may be too great, or too small. The increased size of any part is called a tumour, in which are included all tumours whether indolent or sup- purating. The diminished size of any part, is called meagerness, as a wasting of the arm or leg. DISEASES OF SHAPE. The shape of any part may be unnatural in dimensions, thickness, or form. Excess of dimensions in length, as the head being longer than usual. Defect of dimensions, as shortness of the head. Excess of thickness, as the neck being too thick. Defect of thickness, as smallness of the legs. Difference of shape in a part, is called deformity, as a wry Bcck, crooked spine, or bandy legs. DISEASES OF SITUATION. ’ The situation of any part can be unnatural, in motion and direction. Situation in an improper place, is called error of place, as a tooth growing from the palate, or the vulva directly under the navel, or opening into the amis. The situation of a part moved out of its place, is called ectopia, in which we comprehend all herniae, pro- lapsus, and diastases of bones. The situation of a part passing out of its natural direction, is called obliquity, as obliquity of the uterus, tooth, or head. DISEASES OF CONNECTION. The connection of a part can be either too weak or too strong. Too weak a connection, is seen in a preternatural range of motion in a joint. Too strong a connection is observed in a preternatural im- mobility of ajoint, as in anchylosis. DISEASES OF CONTINUITY. The continuity of a part may be dissolved, or that which should be dissolved, may unnecessarily remain. A preternatural solution of continuity in the soft parts, is a wound, ulcer, or the hare lip '; and in the hard parts a fracture, caries, or fissure. A preternatural continuity of what should be dissolved, is a concretion of the anus, vulva, joint, &c. DISEASES OF CONSISTENCE. . The consistence of a part may be preternatural, by pos- sessing too much softness, or hardness. The consistence is too soft in oedema, abcess, or gangrene. The consistence is too hard in indurated tumours, and ossified parts. DISEASES OF SUBSTANCE. The natural substance of any part may be changed, and be- come preternatural. To which we may refer the substance of soft parts, when, become cartilaginous, bony, earthy, cavernous, callous fungous, steatomatous, schirrous, putrid, and the hard substance of bones, changed into a fungous or fleshy structure. DISEASES OF COLOUR. Tlie natural colour of any part may become improper by de- fect, or diversity from its usual appearance. A defect of the natural colour is observed in the face, lips, particularly in the pallor of a wound, ulcer, or of any other part. A diversity from the natural colour, is the pallidity in chlo- rosis, or dropsy; the redness observed in inflamma- tioi),