( m ) THE SECRETION OF SEMEN. The extremities of the spermatic arteries constitute the organs for the secretion of semen, which is deposited in the serpentine vessels, forming the pulpy substance of the testis. The semen is carried from these serpentine vessels into the epididymis, then to the vas deferens, from which it passes into the vesiculie seminales. The semen is propelled forwards by the formation of new semen, ami by the contraction of the cremaster muscH, which surrounds the spermatic chord. The semen collected in the vesicu'ae seminales, excites a de- ^ sire of en ission, either by its quantity, or a peculiar stimulus, amorous ideas, 6cc. Thus veins of the cavernous substance of the penis are con- tracted by nervous influence, by which contraction the arterial blood is compelled to go into the cells of its substance, whence the penis bfegins to distend, be- comes warm, firm, and excited to coition. When the penis is quite erect, the vcsiculoe semfnales are con- tracted by a convulsive motion; thus the semen is profwlled through the ejaculatory ducts with very great impetus into the urethra, from which, by the action of the accelerator muscles, it is thrown to a great distance. About the time of emission, from the extreme degree of erection, the nervous membrane of the glans penis suffers great extension, from which the utmost sense of venereal pleasure arises. Then, at the time of ejection, the juice of the prostate gland is mixed with the semen, and thrown out with it. Thus, during coition, the semen is thrown into the.cavity of the uterus, and its volatile part seems to ascend the Fallopian tubes to the ovaria. When the semen is emitted, the nervous influence is dimi- ' nished, the penis ceases to be erect, and a languor is perceived all over the body. USE. The semen contains a principle, by which the embryo lying in- active in the female o’vulum, seems to be vivified and animated. MENSTRUATION. VIenstruation is a secretion of blood from the uterus, which happens to women every month. fbe extremities of arteries in the fundus uteri seem to con- stitute this secreting organ. The cause of this discharge either remains utiknown, or pro- ceeds from a peculiar fulness of the uterine vessels'; this seems to be occasioned by the structure of the uterus. This evacuation, in our climate, begins about the fourteenth year, and discontinues at the forty-ninth, dr fiftieth. The menstrual blood can scarcely be called corrupt, if a woman be in good health, and free from disease. But the menstrual blood differs in quantity, time of discharge, duration of continuance, beginning and end, as well as in the symptoms which precede or accompany it; according to the season, habit of body, climate, kind of living, exercise, &c. USE. The menses render women fit for conception, and the nutrition . of the foetus. CONCEPTION. Coition is an embrace between man and woman, in which the man, by his erect penis introduced into the vagina of the woman, throws the semen into the cavity of her uterus. In coition, by nervous influence, the nympha; and clitoris of women become erect; the uterus is turgid with blood, and the Fallopian tubes become rigid : they 'are distended, and embrace the ovarium by their fim- briae, which are spread out, and applied to the most projecting vesicle at the mouth of the ovarium. In women, during the greatest degree of erection, they sud- denly emit a great quantity of mucus, which is impro- perly reckoned female semen ; after which, all the erected parts collapse, except the fimbriai of the Fallopian tubes, which remain applied to the ovaria for some days. Besides, the projecting vesicle of the ovarium, which is in the greatest state of maturity, becomes turgid, and at last is broken, out of which comes an ovulum ; at first, inconsiderable: this is received by the mouth of the Fallopian tube, and carried into the cavity of the uterus by a peristaltic motion.—Cruikshank says, the peristaltic motion is upw'ards till the ovum is im- pregnated ; after which it is downwards. The vivified ovulum is thus carried into the uterus, where it receives its coverings, and is increased. USE. By a successful coitus, the ovulum receives life, and is carried into the cavity of the uterus. Y y EVOLUTION