USE. ( >38 ) StJ USTAXCE. It is a membranous, to which the cellular membrane adheres. USE. To contain the viscera of the abdomen in their situation; to form their external membrane and lii>amcnts; and to moisten its surface by the vapour, exhaling from the exhalent arteries. THE OxMENTUM Is an adipose membrane, lying on the anterior surface of the intestine. ^ DIVISION Into a large and small one. The large omentum is continued from the great arch of the stomach to the hypogastric region, covering the intes- tines. The little omentum extends from the small arch oX-jthe sto- mach to the liver. USE. To lubricate the intestines; excite heat; and prevent con- cretion. THE STOMACH Is a membranous receptacle pf the food from the oesophagus. SITUATION. In the epigastric region, and right hypocondriac. DIVISION. The stomach, when empty, hangs backwards, and is divided into an anterior, and posterior surface. A great, or inferior curvature, lesser, or superior curvature, cardia, or the entrance from the oesophagus, pylorus, or termination of the stomach into the duodenum, fundus, which is a dilated part towards the spleen. CONNECTION. With the oesophagus, duodenum, great and less omentum, and pancreas. SUBSTANCE. Consists of four thin membranes, covered by the cellular membrane; 1. The external, from the peritoneum. 2. muscular coat. 3. nervous covering, consisting of vessels and nerves. 4. villous, or internal coat, which resembles the pile of velvet. USE, To receive the food from the oesophagus; to retain it for sometime; to digest it; and to e.xpcl it through the pylorus into the duodenum. THE INTESTINES Form a membranous tube, or canal, in the cavity of the ab- domen, variously contracted, from the stomach to the anus. . I DIVISION. Into great and small. THE SMALL, LEADING FROM THE STOMACH, ARE The duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. THE GREAT INTESTINES ARE ' The coecum. colon, rectum. The duodenum, in length, is equal to the breadth of twelve fingers: it forms three flexions behind the stomach, in the epigastric region, between its first and second flexion; it is perforated by tlie ductus, communis, choledochus, and pancreatic duct, which most fre- quently arc united into one canal. The jejunum is about fifteen palms long, situated in the um- bilical region. The ileum is also about the same length, situated in the left iliac region and hypogastric, and ends at the valve of Tulpius. The coecum, in length, is equal to the breadth of four fingers: it is situated in the right iliac region ; in this intestine, there is a small separate cavity, called the vermiform process. The colon begins from the coecum, in the right iliac region, and passes up to the liver, from which it makes a transverse arch under, the stomach to the spleen, and terminates by its sigmoid flexure in the rectum, having descended into the pelvis. It appears, therefore, that the colon can be distinguished by a descending, and an ascending part. The rectum is rather more than a foot in length, descending from the last (lumbtir) vertebra to the os sacrum and coccygis, terminating at the anus, where it is closed by a circular muscle, called tha sphinter ani. SUBSTANCE Of the intestines is of four coats, like the stomach. , CONNECTION. The intestines arc chiefly kept in their proper situation by the mesentery.