xxii HISTORY OF medicine:. Galen mentions three schools, erected by the Asclepiadae : one at Rhodes ; this failed a considerable time before Hippo- crates ; not being mentioned by him, as arc those of Cnidus, and Cos. The same author assigns the pre-eminence to the Coan school as it produced the greatest, and most excellent physicians. Cnidus was the second m reputation ; and that of Italy the third. Some judgment may be formed of that at Cnidus from Hippocrates; ('cj who says, those who compiled the Cnidian sentences, or observations, have observed exactly all the symptoms of every distemper. But thcy'have forgot the greatest part of those things which a physician ought to know, without hearing the account of the sick person. He likewise says, that Elaterium, and milk, and whey, were their chief medicines. It seems they chiefly attended to the symptoms without any rea- soning. The Cnidians used to cure (dj (by analogisin) those who had an abscess in the lungs, after this manner.('e) Having observed that a cough threw up all that lay upon the lungs, they drew out the tongues of those who suffered under this dis- ease, and endeavoured to pour some water dow n the aspera artcria, to disebarge, by violent coughing, any matter upon the lungs. From what has been collecte<l; these ancient schools of medicine, seem not much calculaited for improving the art. In- deed, in the age of Hippocrates science was in its infancy, some faint glimmerings of learning appeared amongst the philo- sophers; but less amongst the physicians. As philosophy however began to be studied, by many excellent men; physic, though before traditional, and involved in superstition and darkness, shone forth, amongst the rest, of the sciences, and seem- ingly, by the#«dustrvof one man, arrived at an uncommon degree of perfection. Hippocrates, the great founder and im- prover of the art, was said to be descended from .Esculapius ; and was born in the island of Cos. The practice of medicine being hereditary in his family ; some have imagined, that he acquired great knowledge from the experience of his ancestors ; and the records of cures, preserved in the temple of .lEsculapius : it is more rational to attribute his excellence to industry, and the happy possession of extraordinary powers of mind. But leaving such conjectures to those learned men, who con- tinually indulge themselves in the contemplation of antiquity : we begin by displaying the amazing progress of the art itself; and examining his e.xtensive knowledge in all the branches of medicine. THE GENERAL OPINIONS OF HIPPOCRATES. NATURE is sufficient for all things, in all (f) animals'; or it is, to them, instead of all things. It knows, of itself, whatever is necessary, without being taught, or being under the necessity to learn of anyone. There is one principle power alone ; (g) and many others, subservient to this. It is by these powers that every thing is administered in the bodies of ani- mals; these distribute the blood, spirits, and heat, into all parts; by which means they receive life and sensation. Nature rejects ever}' thing superfluous, and hurtful; ('4Jbut it attracts, retains, and assimilates, everything good and useful. What we call heat, or hot, seems to be something immortal; which understands, secs, hears, and knows, both what is past, and what is to come. j The human body consists of three constitircnt principles; solids, fluids, and spirits, called the containing and contained parts. There arc four humors; blood, phlegm, yellow bile, and black bile, or melancholy. The blood is naturally hot, fluid, ;ind of a red colour, and sweet to the taste. The phlegm is cold, fluid, white, viscid, and somewhat saline. 1 he yellow bile is dry, glutinous, and bitter, and extracted from thepinguious parts of the blood, and aliments. Melancholy, is black, cold, and dry, very glutinous, flatulent, and inclined to ferment. The containing parts are composed of air, fire, earth, an<l water. This is the opinion of Pythagoras, Empedocles, and some of the most ancient philosophers. By the containing parts are meant bones, nerves, tendons, ligaments, cartilages, membranes, iind fibres. Health continues, as long as the four humours remain in their natural conditions, as to their qualities, quantities, and proper mixtures. But when they are not mixed in their natural proportions, or are not possessed ot their natural qua- lities, or if any humour become predominant, then is disease produced. ' ANATOMY fcj De ratione vie. in aculb, lib, (d) Galen. ("ej Tlie Cnidian practice violent and hazardous, j Lib. de .-Utiucmis. Lib, de carnibusvcl prmci{iiis.