1 HISTORY OF MEDICINE. to submit the cure of acute diseases to the constitutional efforts ; to assist when necessary, and promote the excretions pointed out for the expulsion of the morbid symptoms ? These fatal distempers were equally destructive in those ages, as at present; and a physician hiiihly merits commendation, fyj who discovers new methods for th dr cure. The moderns indulging their hy- pothetical refinements, have disputed with great vehemence, theory, has succeeded theory, (z) for several ages, experiments have been multiplied, and invention nearly exhausted to explain the secret causes and cure of acute fevers ; yet they remained difficult; nor was any mode of cure superior to the ancients established, until the use of antimony, lately was established. In acute diseases the regimen prescribed is excellent; the habit, the safest guide, is consulted, (a) the patient’s feelings, and the accustomed diet; from these a plan is formed for the administration of remedies and aliment, in the vaiious progressions of the distemper. Apprised of the dangerous consequences of suddenly emptying the vessels, (h) and departing immediately from the cus- tomary diet, he would suffer no alteration, but with great caution, and by the most gradual means, (c) And certainly no- thing more clearly proves the prejudices and ignorance of physicians, than when they presume to prescribe to all patients in a dictatorial manner, one particular aliment. (d) The opinions in general arc diametrically opposite on diet; (c) this most probably arises from a circumscribed principle; for without considering the variety in nature, and that contrary’ diet agrees or disagrees with different persons, (f) they ge- nei-ally recommend what is found, by experience, to suit t'oeir own inclinations or constitutions ; and thus their own feelings are made a standard for the patient, (g) Hippocrates uninfluenced by any such narrow prepossessions, regarded the natural propensities and antipathies only : such was the judgment, such the conduct of this ancient father oi medicine ; and these examples are well worthy of imitation, (h) He freely censured the physicians of the age, (i) because they were more solicitous to gratify a false ambition in starting novelties, and acting in opposition to each other, than by uniting their en- deavours for the welfare of society, or improving the art. Nor does he omit mentioning those pretenders in the profession, (h) who obtruded themselves on the public as skilful artists, with no other attainment than the knowing a few technical terms, and the preparation of medicines. Others he treats as conceited and ignorant, wlio imposed on tlie patients, (1) by artfully affecting importance’, and giving to the merest trifles an air of consequence; as not allowing strained barley water, for which singular conduct they could pro- duce no rational explanation. The prejudiced physicians, who prohibited the use of either solids or liquids for the first seven days in acute fevers, he inveighed against bitterly, considering them the pests of society, the destroyers of mankind. These he remarked, by dishonoring jdiysic through dangerous prejudices, and an unacquaintance with nature, brought the art itself into disrepute. The administration of hydromel or oxymel are excellent in acute disorders, (tn) repeated bleedings, when the symptoms were inflammatory, were likewise judicious ; but purging with hellebore was too violent; (n) it was however his misfortune to be unacquainted with mild luxatives. (o) The applying fomentations in' the pleurisy, and peripneumony; the watching attentively for the means pointed out by nature, in violent fevers, for expelling the morbid affection; calling forth the assistance of art, either for promoting the critical evacuations, or supporting the weak, sinking patient, are examples of the roost reasonable modes of treatment, and are superior in some respects to many advanced by the moderns. (q) Tlie fy) Improvers of the art, wortliy of commendation. (j) The moderns, notwithstanding many hypothesis, have not improved the cure of acute diseases. (0) Consulting nature alone, an adiuirable practice for his time. (b) No (udden changes allowed. (c) Physicians ignorant who prescribe to all patients one plan of diet or cure, (d) Variety of opinions on diet. (e) The cause. (/) Physicians prescribing from tlieir own feelings, instead of examining tlie variety in nature. (g) Hippocrates not influenced by such narrow prepossessions. (/i) His example worthy of imitation. (1) Physicians froely censurcil, for opposing each other, instead of improving the art. ffcj Ignorant piaclitioncrs censured (1) Of those who impose ontiieir patients, by assuming great importance, on trifling occasions. fmj Hydromel oxymel and bleeding proper in acute disorders. (n) Purging with hellebore too violent. (o) Fomentations proper in the pleurisy and peripneumony. (p) Assisting tbecriticalevacuationspointed out bynatuxe agood practices (j^ And superior in some respects, to modern methods.