xxiii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. ^ ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF HIPPOCRATES. THE nature of man’s body is the principle, or foundation, (i) on which all reasoning of physic is built. Some physicians and philosophers pretend, that a man cannot understand the art of physic unless he knows what man is, (k) what is his first formation, and how his body is made. But I am of opinion, that all that has been written by these people, belongs more to the art of painting than physic; and am persuaded, that man cannot clearly understand nature, but by means of physic, as those w ho are well skilled in that art, will soon perceive. These two passages have been produced by a number of commentators in vindication of their different sentiments. Those who would, inconsiderably, force Hippocrates to understand every thing; assert, from tlie first passage, that he was e.xceedingly well skilled in anatomy. Those who dispute his anatomical knowledge, have produced the latter, as confirmation of his ignorance in this branch. Neither of the foregoing assertions, we presume, amount to a positive proof on either side. He supposed the nature of man’s body, consisted in his elementary principles, and notions, of the four humours. These most probably are, what he meant by the understanding the nature of the human body. His other assertions could only arise from observing that many philosophers, and physicians, disputed, in his time, on subjects, above human comprehension : and for this reason justly reprehended them. The skin is naturally white, but, according as humours abound, it varies its colour. When the passages are open, for the semen, (1) or menses, the hair, or down, appears. The matter, which forms the hair, is either remote or immediate. The remote cause, is, superfluous moisture, which the glands, situate in the moist places, could not absorb : therefore, this moisture is pushed out into liie skin, and where there are hairs, there arc also glands. The glands receive the moisture, which comes to them ; the hairs absorb it, for their production or nourishment, (m) being expelled by nature as superfluous. The reason of there being glands, and no hairs in some parts, is, because there is too great an abundance of moisture : for we see, that in watery and low grounds, seed will not take any root; nay the grass itself will not grow. The hair varies in colour, accoiding to the predominant humour; for whatever humour the flesh attracts, such will the colour of the hair be. Little is said concerning the muscles, except their name. The parts whose flesh is turned round, which is what we call pv?, have all a belly, or cavity Aa-V'^<pv\o» for all which is not composed of parts of a different nature, whether it be covered with membrane, or whether the flesh covers it, all that is hollow; and when well, is full of spirits; but when it is diseased, (n) it is filled with a sort of water, or corrupted blood. The arms, have flesh of this sort; the thighs, and legs the same ; as well as the most lean, and fleshless parts. The liver is the root of the veins, and the heart that of the arteries, from these the blood, (o) and spirits flow'; and through means of these, is the heat diffused.^ There are two hollow veins that come from the heart; one of which is called the artery ; (f) the other the vena cava. At the mouths, or inner gates of the arteries, there are three round membranes, disposed in their top, like a half circle, and they who pry into the secrets of nature, do much wonder, how these orifices, and ends of the great arteries, do close themselves. For if the heart be taken out, and one of these membranes be lifted up, and another pressed down, neither water, nor air, can pass into the heart; and these membranes, are more exactly disposed in the mouths of the left ventricle ; and that, for a very good reason. (q) The heart dwells in a bladder, and it is a very strong muscle. The large vessels of the heart, are called the fountain of nature; and he supposed, that the auricles served the heart as a fan ; and that the soul was situated in the left ventricle owing to its great heat. The motion of the arteries he called <ryD7p.o>. The heart is moved by its own nature, but the auricles privately swell, and fall again, (r) All the veins do communicate and flow mutually with one another, (s) The lungs are of their own nature cold, and are farther cooled by respiration. The lungs attract a nourisliment contrary to their substance, whereas all other parts, (t) attract those which arc similar to them. (u) The lungs are tire seat of thirst. I he lungs with their heat attract to themselves phlegm, out of the whole body; (xj especially the head. There is much heat in the heart; as being, of all members, the hottest, (y) Part (i) Dclocis homine. fk) De prise, medicin.' ^l) Denatur puer. (m) Deglandul. (n) Lib. de arte. (o) Lib. dcaliiuento. (p~) Lib. de Carn. (q) De corde. (r) De principiis. ("sj De loc. lion), (tj Lib. dealimento. (nj Lun^s tljeseart of thirst. <^xjDemoTb, - De prindp.