INTRODUCTION, &c. xxi No. 21, Saville-Row, ]\Iay 1, 1803. ft' - to reflect, reason, analyse, form analogies, and not be led into error, through precipitancy, or a puerile delight in plausible, though ill conceived novelties of versatile projectors. Never desert that vi'hich has been experienced successful; for what may probably prove deceptive. Proceed al- ways with caution, prudence, candour, and integrity. Fair reputation follow's honourable conduct. In this edition is delivered a pathology different from that of the Latin, to prepare the young student, and store the mind with that necessary knowiedge, by which, it is presumed, he may pro- ceed to practice. Some, and indeed, the greatest part, is taken from Gaubius, Caldanus, Plenck, and others, and it is admitted contrary to the opinion of some learned men, that the morbid state of the fluids, act first on the nervous system, then on the heart and arteries, and from thence to the remotest parts, producing increased morbid perturbations through a part, or the whole human body; this, however, will be more fully proved in the practical work w'hich will follow the preparatoiy principles. Whoever will take the trouble to examine all other productions on anatomy, physiology, and pathology, and compare them with the present, will be convinced, that this is better adapted, as a single book, for students, than most others. It is not intended to depreciate any learned works, for there are many excellent, and it is from several that the present offering to the learned, in part, has been selected, and delivered in a form different from all that have preceded, to facilitate medical studies. A greater excitement to industry cannot be conceived, nor better expressed, than by the great Hippocrates, o (3io! ri i^xKp'4, 0 xctfpof e|t/{ i t^cTpx a-^aXipi 4 Je xpterif — “ Zi/e is short, the art long, the occasions momentous, judgment difficult," &c. It will therefore be of the greatest importance to establish all useful truths as early in life as possible, and to abandon and sup- press all useless inquiries, as deviations from the main points to be considered in practice. The different studies recommended in Schola Medicince having been fulfilled, long experience after- w^ards forms the GREAT physician, and hewdllbethe GREATEST, w’ho is convinced, through life, he has SOMETHING TO LEARN. These important truths are most respectfully submitted to the profession in general, and to those in particular, who are expert anatomists, physiologists, and pathologists; but above all, to those, w'ho with these sciences, have joined true theory, to a long experience and unprejudiced observa- tion in practice. With such learned practitioners, the author has little to apprehend; they will glance at imperfections with a benevolent candour; they w'ill generously consider the difficulty of the undertaking, and will be much more gratified, to find any thing to commend than censure— errare est humanum—to be perfect is impossible. As to the cavils of envy, or the deceptive mis- representations of malevolence, or falsehood, forbearance, as usual, will be the only response. The consciousness of having faithfully endeavoured to serve society, elevates the mind above little professional jealousies, or the malicious rude attacks of miserable concealed illiberal-critics, who frequently w'rite, for the sake of mischief, what they do not even themselves believe, and whose praise would be a real disgrace. The enjoyment of unlimited professional confidence, amongst all ranks, after a practice of near fifty years, first as a surgeon, and afterwards as a physician, in this great metropolis, has excited in tlie mind the most lively sense of gratitude; a gratitude 1 that no opposition wdll shake; nor, during the short remainder of life, will ever be effaced !