siv HISTORY OF MEDICINE' immoderate diarrhoea, producing an hiccoughing in elc^rly persons, is very unfavourable, (o) From a diarrluca frequently follows a dysentery, and a dysentery, if it arise from black choler, is mortal ; (pj as arc likewise, small pieces of llcsli, ejected by a person labouring under a dysentery, (qj In long continued dysenteries, or loosnesses, a depraved appetite is bad ; (r) but if accompanied with a fever, it is nuicli worse; and splenetic patients who are afflicted with a dysentery, die of the dropsy, or licntcry. (s) After a dysentery, a delirium or convulsion is bad; and after a tedious and lingering disease, a flux of the belly is ex- tremely dangerous. ('O Hippocrates, lib. wtfi says, that a dysentery is attended with pain and gripes in all parts of the belly, (u) and -c.xccretions of bile, phlegm, and at last blood. In another place, he (ells us, that this disease arises, from the bile and phlegm settling in the veins of the belly. The blood is disordered, and deposits its corrupted part; the intestine also, is aftccted, and is abraded aud cxulcerated. The disease is painful and mortal; and if the patient be of a very robust constitution, there is some little room to c.xpcct a cure. But when there is a colliquation, and total exulceration of the belly, there are no hopes of life. Again, lib. wspl Jiallrr when the body is heated, he says, there is an acrimonious purgation, with an abrasion, and cxulceration of the intestines, and bloody stools, the disease is called a dysentery, and is very severe aud dangerous. He recommended bleeding, in the dysentery, (x) Meal boiled in milk, or milk porridge, was more useful than goats whey, which he gave first. He relates an instance of a person being cured by boiled asses milk ; and in another place, the rubia tcnctorium in fat broth. Solid millet, boiled in oil, he likewise recommended. When the upper parts of the gullet are sore; (y) or a breaking out of small tumours does arise in the body, we ought to inspect the e.xcrement; for if this is choleric, the "body is in a viscid state; but if they are like the excrements of sound per- sons, the body may be nourished without danger, (a) Black excrements, like black blood, proceeding of their own accord, cilher with a fever, or without a fever, are worst of all; and so much the worse, by as much the bad colours arc more in quantity and w'orse. But if they are caused by purging medicines, they are far better, and that in proportion as there are more colours. If black choler issue forth either upwards or downw'ards, (h) at the beginning of any disease, it is a mor- tal sign. A dysentery is very bad, which succeeds the evacuation of unmixed excrements downwards; (c) and those that avoid frothy excrements by stool, have a defluxion of the head, (d) He affirms that the stools became of a thicker con- sistence, when a disease was about to be determined. In his first part of his,epidemics, he tells us, many had their bellies disturbed, but without any considerable uneasiness, and in such a manner as to create them no great trouble. Afterwards, he says, some were seized on the si.xth day, with the jaundice ; (e) but these were in some measure relieved by an increased discharge of the urine and excrements, (f) This appears like what is now called yellow fever. With respect to dysenteries, he afterwards uses these words. But such patients as were far advanced in years, weie either seized w ith the jaundice, disturbances of the abdomen, or a dysentery, which was the case of Bion, who lay sick at the house of Silenus, but many others, whose diseases were determined by a crisis, were siezed with a dysentery, such as Xenophanes and Cretias. With respect to those who recovered in the pestilential constitution, he uses the following words. But in this pestilential state, such as escaped, owed their safety to these four circumstances ; either there was a plentiful discharge of blood from the nose, or a copious evacuation of urine, in which there was a large quantity of laudable sediment, or turbid and bilious excrements, were evacuated in the beginning of the disorder, or the patients were seized by a dysentery, (g) Those stools that are aqueous, or while, or green, or highly red, or frothy, are all bad. n ON (o') Dysentery follows a diarrhoea. (p) Coac. I. 100, 111, 292. 5 Epid. X. 2. Aph. 24. Sect. IV. (q) Aph. 26. Sect. IV. (r) 6 Epid. VIII. 1 Coac. VI. 100. Aph. 3. Sect. VI. (s) Coac. III. 245. 1 Morb. III. 27. Affect. XXI. 23. XXVIII. 1. Aph. 43. Sect. VI. (f) Coac.III. 57. Aph. 9. Sect. VII. Aph. 5. Sect. Vm. (u) Cause of the dysentery. (i) De ratione vicui in acutis. (y) 4 Epid. 12 Aph. 15 Sect. II. (i) Praenot X.6. (a) Coac. III. 36. VII. 22. ad. 26. Aph. 21. Sect. IV. (i) Coac. 1.100. Aph. 22. Sect. IV. (c) Aph. 23.Sect. VII. (d) Morb. Sacro. VII. 28. Coac. V. 13, 14. Aph. 30. Sect. VII. (e) The jaundice on the sixth day. 0} Resolved by aeopious evacuation of u.riu«andfscce». (jl) Prsenot. stools aqueous, w hile, green, and frothy.