{ io5 ) OSTEOLOGIA. Bones are the hardest, most dry, and least sensible of the solid parts, except in a diseased state. A junction of all the bones in their natural situation, is called a Skeleton.—It is nominated natural, when its ligaments are preserved; artificial, when articulated with small wires, screws, &c. DIVISION OF THE SKELETON, A skeleton is divided into Head, Trunk, and Extremities, Tlte head is divided into Skull, and Face. ¥he face is sub-divided into maxilla superior, or Upper Jaw, And maxilla inferior, or Lower Jaw, The trunk is divided into Spine, Thorax, / Pelvis, The extremities are divided into Superior, and Inferior, The upper extremities are divided into the top of the Shoulder, and Arm, Into the Fore Arm, and Hand. The hand is sub-divided into Carpus, or Wrist, Metacarpus, or Hand; Digiti, or Fingers. The lower extremities are divided into femur, or Thigh, Leg, and Foot. The foot is sub-divided into Foot, and Toes, THE NUMBEU, AND NAME OF BONES. The skeleton of a full grown person consists of two hundred and forty bones. Thp skull is made up of eight; namely, 1 Frontal bone. 1 Occipital. 2 Parietal. 2 Temporal, 1 Spheenoid, _ 1 Ethmoid. The maxilla superior, or upper jaw, consists of Ihirteeu bones: 2 Superior maxillary. 2 Jugal. 2 Lachrymal. 2 Nasal, 2 Palatine. 2 Inferior, spongy. ' 1 Vomer. The maxilla inferior, or lower jaw, has one bone only, except in the Ictal state. The cavity of the mouth has thirty-three bones; namely, S2 Teeth. » 1 The os hyoides, or bone of the tongue. The cavity of the car has four bones, called Stapes, Malleus, Incus, and , Os orbicularc. The spine consists of twenty-four vertebrte ; namely,] 7 Of the Neck, J2 Back. 5 Loins. The thorax has twenty-five bones; namely, 24 Ribs. 1 Bone, called Sternum. The pelvis consists of four bones, which arc 2 Ossa innominata. 1 Os sacrum, or sacred bone, I Os coccygis. The top of the shoulder has two bones ; namely, Clavicle, Scapula, or Shoulder Bone, The arm has one bone, called Humerus, ot bone of the arm. The fore arm has two bones; namely, Radius. Ulna. The