INTRODUCTION, &c. *vn riosities in Italy, a large collection of which I made in different travels. The explanations of tlie historical and medallic plates are the subsequent. They are arranged in a chronological order. PLATE I. IS a representation of tlie most ancient and curious piece of ^Egyptian sculpture now remain- ing; known by the name of the Tabula Bembina, or Isiaca; perhaps removed (amongst other excellent antiques and works of art) from Italy to the famous Paris gallery, now erecting for the spoils of the late unparalleled and destructive war. The grand gallery extends, it is re- ported, from the garden of the Thidllerits to the Place de Louis Quinze. The figures on the left and upper side consist of Isis on her throne in the middle; the two figures on each side uitli swell- ing breasts are supposed tutelary deities, &c. The letters of reference to the plate have been omitted, but the following description, chiefly from Kirchei', will be a sufficient explanation. f Explanation of the first Plm THAT the reader may have a clearer view of the whole, I will give a plan, or scheme, taken from tlie Mensa Isiaca, called the Tabula Bembina; because the most eminent Car- dinal Bembus first obtained it, an inestimable monument of Egyptian antiquity; which then, by the help of ^Encas Vicus, of Parma, came into the possession of the Duke of Mantua, and was placed in his Gazo Phylacium, or cabi- ^net of curiosities: afterwards, it was carried away at the siege of the city: lastly, 1 know not by what good fprtune it was brought to the Duke of Savoy, and I hear, it is pre- served amongst his rarest cimelia, or precious gems. From the schematism, or plan, of this plate, it seemed best to select tlie medium to prove the truth of what is here men- tioned ; from which will clearly appear the manner and way of representing the supreme deities of the Egyptians, which is as follows. Here may be seen the throne, A. B. C. D. L. M. which the Hieromystm, or sacred interpreters of religious mysteries, call the great gate of the gods, constructed with all the sym- bolic architecture; whose coronisy oi- highest ornament, or frons A. B. represents flames rising iu the form of serpents. The second coronis C. D. with a winged globe, the third E. F. and basis L. M. of the throne, are marked in the same inan- ncf. The whole coronis, with two columns E. L. and F., M. is marked with white and black steps, of which E, L. sustain The small liead of Isis put on it. To this throne is inserted a.figure S. in a female dress, from the middle to the feet in the forna of feitthered drawers, from the middle rising to- wards the chest a swelling brcast. Her head is covered by a sacred vitta JEgyptica, Meleager, or ^Egyptian head dress, a turkey hen is expanded over head, which endeavours to fly, b r of the History of Medicine. on its back is a calai/ius, or sacred cup, from which the leaves of two persea spring, and two cornua, which include the cir- cle marked with the figure of a scarabmus, or beetle; in one hand she holds a sceptre with the flower of the lotus, or herb, the seed of which the Egyptians made bread ; with, the other she expresses that gesture, in which any thing is commanded to be done in an imperious manner. She sets on a polished seat, on which is delineated the figure of a dog in a sitting posture. Under the throne is’ seen an abacus, tho limbus, or border, of which, as well as all the circle of the throne, is decorated with stars. Within the abacus is placed a ligure laying down, composed of a lion and hawk, ttfoxo- T^eovaifjLcfpot, which is ornamented on the head with the phasis of the august, or sextile moon, with a star; containing by its anterior feet a canopus, but on its back vero glubu alatus serpentifer is seen with a scepter. The supreme corona A. B. of the throne, or gate, spread out like flames indicates the supreme intelligence filled with light and life, eternal, incorruptible, free from all contagion of matter; H«xe fjnv a ro^ Xa/,i7rof4«'9poi o'liyipyi^ov o> oXo> salce. 0v6ea Kos-jiti, K^l/9£ Tvpoj tyi> putri7. When you see the sacred fire glittering without any form of the M’hole world, then you advert to the word of fire.— Zoroaster in oracuUs. Besides, all the images on obelisks are nothing else than amulets, scu prophylactica, or spells, or charms, which by the mentioned analogical apparatus of things, as soon as they were consecrated, they believed that by the superior powers they derived virtue tlirough a certain inevitable ne- cessity, and that all the trains of evils were averted by the assistance of the genii who presided over them; concerning which