xlviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE " shonl.i happen ♦o be l-.emHtary. Cp) Change of diet and place, and especially growing older, free children from the epilepsy. In epileptic patients, urine unusually thin, and crude, if their be no repletion, signifies an approaching fit, (q) and so much the more if it be accompanied with a pain or tension of the acromium, neck, or back, or stupor of the body, or trouble- sojiie dreams. Hippocrates recommended cauteries in this disease, fmtid substances, and sometimes bleeding. ILI.^C PASSION. IN the third Book De Morbis, Hippocrates accounts for this disorder, in the following manner, (r) The intestines are dried, and by the heat of the intlamniaiion so bloated up, that neither flatulences nor fasces can be expelled. But the belly is hard, and the patients sometimes vomit, first a mucus, then a bilious matter, and lastly excrements. A convulsion or delirium, after the iliac passion, is very unfavourable ; (sj and this disorder succeeding, a strangury proves fatal, within seven days, unless plenty of urine be discharged upon a supervening fever. CO In his Book De Morbis, he says, if a physician was ever beneficial to a patient, Cu) in the cure of a disease, he must ne- cessarily have employed his skill at a proper season, and certainly in this disorder this notion is strictly true. In his third Book De Morbis, he gives a very accurate description of this disease; and for the cure, he orders a long suppository, prepared of honey, fxj and the anterior part to be covered with ox gall, and to be introduced twice or thrice into the anus, by which means the indurated faeces about theintestinum rectum may be softened, and brought away. (i/J After this he recommends a clyster to be injected. If these methods prove ineffectual, a smith’s bellows, is to be introduced up the anus, and by this means such a quantity of air injected, C^J as is sufficient to distend the abdomen, and remove the contraction of the intestines. Then removing the bellows, he directs a clyster to be administered, faj which consists not of hot ingredients, but of such as resolve, and colliquate, the faeces. Afterwards stopping up the anus with a piece of sponge, in order to prevent the discharge of the clyster, let the patient sit in warm water, (h) Ho adds, if this injection is restrained, and afterwards discharged, fej tho patient will be restored to health. He further says, the stomach should be freed from all sordes, and a proper quantity of blood taken from the head, (d) and those parts of the arm where the joints of the elbow arc, that by this means, the heat of the superior belly may cease. Then all the parts above the diaphragm, except the heart, are to be cooled, whereas tho inferior parts are to be kept hot; (e) the patient is to be placed in a bath of warm water, and the abdomen carefully anointed with oil. (f) CANCERS. RESTRAINED menses, arc conveyed to the breasts, (g) and delude rvomen with a specious appearance of pregnancy'. And he afterwards adds, and in her breasts hard tubercles arise, some of which are large, and others small. These tumors never come to suppuration, but always become harder, till at last occult cancers are produced, (h ) Occult cancers ought not to be cured, for they that are attempted to be cured die soon, whereas those who leave the disorder to nature Itre longer. Irritating practice augments the disease. Sec my Treatise on Cancers. Galek in explaining Hippocrates on this subject, says, they who cut, or cauterize cancers in the palate, or in the anus, or on the breasts of women, tan never bring the ulcers to a cicatrix ; but by the violent pain of the cure, waste the pat'ietits till they die; who without a cure would have lived longer, and endured less pain. Celsus says the same. Hippocrates, Cp) Change of place, 11 Predict. 1, 2,3. Morb. sacro XIII. 6 £pid. " Cr) Cause and account of the disease. CO Judicat. XII. 2. Coac. III. 314. V. 7.S. 87. Aph. 45. Sect. V. Cx) Suppository. (y) Clyster. Ca) Laxative clyster not heating. (ft) Warm bath. (d) Bleeding (c) A bath. (g) De Morb. mulicr. lib. 2. cap. XX. h) 11. Prtedict. XVIII. 5,9, XXI, 5,11. Morb. XXI11.25. Aph. 38. 36. Co) Coac. pramot. (i) Coac. III. 303. Aph. 10. Sect. VII. («) Necessity of a physician being called in the beginning, Cx) Inflating the intestines with air. (c) Retention of the clysters. (/) Anoint with oil. cct. VI.