viii HISTORY OF MEDICINE of the king of J’ersia's principal lieutenants: Democedes, and several other Greeks, who were with Polycratos, were kept as prisoners. Soon afterwards, Orteta, being suspected, and assassinated by the Persians in his own family, and all about him, were carried into Persia, Deinocedes was taken amongst the slaves, and concealed his medical knowledge as much as possible. It happened that Darius, the king, when hunting, suddenly leaped from his horse, and luxated his foot. He continued in excessive pain for seven days: the Egyptian Physicians were called, and could do no good ; their applications were entirely fruitless. The king was then informed, that he had, amongst the slaves, one Democedes, who understood those affairs. Darius ordered him to be sent for immediately, and exercise his skill: but he was tenacious of Grec ian liberty, he dissembled his knowledge: however, being ill-treated and flogged, he, at last, confessed the truth. He prepared an emollient fomentation to relax the tension, and resolve the inflammation, and soon cured the king. From this occurrence, the former esteem of Egyptian Physicians diminished, and that of the Crotonians was increased. In fact, the king was so much enraged at the ignorance and perverse )jractise of the others, that he ('idercd all of tliem, except Democedes, to be crucified ; but Democedes interceded, and procured a reprieve. He also cured .*\tossa, a queen of Darius, of a bad, wide-spreading ulcer of the breast, supposed to be cancerous, when she was in imminent danger. Having thus gained the greatest favour and protection of the Persian court, bethought of nothing but leturning t > Ids country, and permission was, at last, granted to him. He was not of the family of the .Esclcpiades, though a Cireek, and lived an hundred years before Hippocrates. These are the principal people from the Crotonian school, in Phjsic ; the Philosophers were expelled from Crotona, and another University opened at Agrigentum, of which the most celebrated Physicians were Alcmaeon, the most ancient of Grecian Anatomists. Empedocles, who restored a woman that had been dead some days ; and Acron, the prince of Empiiics, to whom Empedocles was an enemy. In Lybia, a province of Asia, there was a city, called Gyrene, formerly esteemed for the education of several Philosophers— as Aristippus, a disciple of Socrates, and founder of the Cyrencian school ; Eratosthenes, Callimachus, and Carneades. Nothing particular is said of the Physicians of this place, except that they were next in estimation to the Crotonians. ■ Galen tells us, that there w-as a respectable school instituted at Cnido, that endeavoured to rival Cos, but in vain : and that Hippocrates was not ashamed of receiving certain things (maxims') from the Cnidians; though, on the other band, he reproaches them with neglecting Semiotica, and a deficiency of remedies; and that their medicines were too drastric : and also, that they said little worth notice with regard to diet: Euryphon, Author of Sentcntice Cnidm ; and Cicsias, a relation of Hippocrates, were educated in this school of Cnido. Ho was afterwards Physician at the court of Artaxerxes, king of Persia; and a respectable Historical Writer, part of whose wiitings still remain. The Rhodian school was the most ancient, but soon sunk into disrepute ; and even in the time of Hippocrates, according to Galen, was lust in oblivion, at a time when Cos was the principal seat of the Aselcpiades, and possessed the highest esteem; for it collected and concentrated all prior knowledge. At Epidaurus, there was not only a Medical School, but also a sacred temple o4 /Tlsculapius, very celebrated for exposure of the sick, for oracles, and the cure of diseases. Since this was esteemed the. place where the deity was born, we need not wonder at its celebrity, and the strict observance and adoration paid to it, until the image or statue was nunoved to Rome, during the raging of a plague at Epidaurus: it was retained there, and a temple erected in the island of the Tyler.— See Livjj, Epist. XI. and Val. Max. Lib. I. Cap. VHI. We see that Medicine, as well as other Arts, had a very imperfect origin: and that Egyptian and Grecian Pliyiic, in those ages, was very simple. That period may be looked upon as the infancy of the art: but pure necessity induced men to attend to each part particularly; to distinguish wholesome things from such as were unwholesome; to observe what could be useful for the body. But since they neither knew the power of remedies, and nature of diseases d priori, they were obliged to learn many things by chance, natural instinct, or unforeseen accidents. An event is called chance which happens suddenly, and cannot be accounted for by any known cause—as when the son of Croesus, born dumb, on seeing an armed soldier rushing at his fiilhcr, suddenly found his speech, and called out—O homo ! ne patrem occidas. Such fortuitous occurrences often happen in diseases with advantage to the sick. 'I'hus we read of an epilepsy, a most formidable disease, being accidentally cured by wounds and burns ot the head. An history of this kind is related