( ua ) SIVISION 2. 'Hie crtbriform lamella, whicli forms the internal sur- face of this bone, 3. The perpendicular lamina, or ethmoid septum, divides the cavernous substances; and al its inferior part, is connected to the vomer, 4. The cavernous substance, on each side of the perpen- dicular lamina; consisting of bony cells, and forms the superior spongy bone. 5. The •paper-like, or papyraceous surface, which covers the cavernous substance sideways, and forms the lateral, and internal part of the orbit. THE EXTERNAL AND INtERNAL CAVITIES ARE 1. The cribrous foramina, most of which are near the crista galli, on the internal surface, and give passage to the small branches of olfactiry nerves. CONNECTION WITH SEVEN BONES. 1. With the frontal bone. 2. the fiasal, or bones of the nose. 3. superior maxillary. 4. lachrymal. 5. palatine. 6. sphaenoid. 7. vomer. USES. It constitutes the organ of smell, part of the nose, skull, and orbits. THE BONES OF THE FACE in particular. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. SITUATION. At the anterior, and middle part of the face. SHAPE. Irregular, DIVISION. Into the body, which is in the middle, and many apo- physes. EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL PROMINENCES ARE 1. The nasal apophysis, which R'rms the side of the nose, 2. The orbital apophysis, forming the inferior part of the orbit. 3. The jugal apophysis, which is rugged, and connected to the jugal bone. 4. The palatine apophysis, which forms the anterior par\ of the palate. 5. The alveolar arch, which consists of eight sockets in each bone. 6. The maxillary tuberosity, forming its posterior surface. 7. The nasaj spine, which is internal in the cavity of the nose, formed by a connection of the maxillary bones. 8. The orbital margin, forming the inferior edge of th* orbit. EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL CAVITIES, 1. Lachrymal fossa, which is a cavity, at the superior and internal part of the nasal process, to receive the la- chrymal sac. 2. 7'hc nasal canal, which decends a little obliquely from the lachrymal fossa into the cavity of the nose. 3. The inferior orbital canal, beginning at the lower part of the orbit, is covered by the inferior orbital apophysis, and terminates in the face: it gives passage to the infe- rior orbital nerve, which is a continuation of the supe- rior maxillary. 4. The palatine foramen in the nasal spine, through which the anterior palatine artery passes. 5. The posterior palatine foramen, behind the last of those teeth, called Molares, or Grinders, in the maxillary tuberosity, by which the alveolar nerve passes in. 6. An ajjcrturc of the maxillary sinus, which is so co- vered by the ethmoid, lachrymal, palatine, and inferior spongy, bones, that it will hardly admit a gopse-quill. 7. The pituitary maxillary sinus; in the middle of this bone is called Antrum Highmori, or of Highmor, which is a deep cavity, with an aperture into the nose. CONNECTION WITH ELEVEN BONES. Partly by sutures, and partly by harmony. 1. With its companion on the other side. 2. the frontal bone. 3. nasal bones. 4. lachrymal. 5. ethmoid bone. 6. jugal bones. 7. palatine. 8. ' sphenoid bone. 9. inferior spongy bones. 10. vomer. 11, teeth. USE. They form part of the face, palate, nostrils, and orbit; and constitute the organ of mastication, or for chewing food. JUGAL BONES. SITUATION. At the sides of the face. FIGURE. Almost square.