xxxii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. The fbllowing arc his spiitimcnts. J I praise that physician, who knows how to distinguish himself, above all others Of his profession, by his skill in improving the common methods, in curing acute diseases ; (s) which make the greatest havock •mougst mankind. Such arc those, to which our ancestors, gave the names of pleurisy, pcripneuinony, lethargy, burning fever; CO ttod other disorders which ha\c an affinity with them; for these destroy the patient, by a fever, altogether con- tinual, which accompanies them. For when there is no pestilential disorder raging epidemically, fu) but only sporadical fevers, of various kinds j more die of these acute fevers, than all other diseases. The generality of mankind, indeed, ('.ij are not capable of distinguishing the man who excels his brethren in true medical knowledge ; and therefore they only ju-aise, or condemn, especially when they see cures performed. It is utterly unsafe to attempt an unreasonable and extravagant inanition of the vessels ; (y) or offer food in the height of a disease, attended with inflammation; (7.) or, in short, to make any sudden alteration in any respect, during the whole course of a distemper. Men, ignorant of physic, can easily impose on mankind; C<^J and pass for able practitioners, if they only understand a few technical terms, as hydromcl, or ptisan, but knowledge is acquired by diligait study only, (b) Some physicians will not allow barley water unstrained ; others will notallow boiled barley, (c) Some not the least particle of cither solid, or fluid diet, till the seventh day. Others not till the full determination of the crisis. .Ask them why ? They arc silent, not having any conclusive reasoning in support of such singular conduct. Thus, by the contraciictions, and disagreements of the artists, the art itself falls into disrepute; and is reproached by the undiscerning multitude. lie illustrates this, by comparing physicians to practitioners in augury. Those frequently disagree about the same omens, (d) If a bird appear on the left side, one prognosticates a favourable event; while another augurer foretells from the same thing, that something dire- ful will certainly happen. Regimen is a proper subject for the speculation of a physician, He inveighs, with many powerful reasons, against Ibo practice of an absolute inanition, in acute distempers. He recommends the free use of barley water, or ptisan, from the beginning of the disease, after the intestines are emptied by black helleboreiMsiSopm or purple sea spurge mixing with the hellebore wild carrot or hart wort triotXi or cummin, or anise, or some of the fragrant •herbs; but with the spurge the juice of silphium imlv Is for though here be a mixture of simples, they are of a lik^ 'quality, and produce one uniform effect. If the beginning of a fever is attended with pain after the evacuation, he recommends oxymeal, warm, if it be winter, but cold in summer, or if the thirst be considerable, hydromel much diluted with water, (g) Ptisan (or barley) water, he con- ceives to be preferable to all other liquors in acute diseases, on account of its innocence, lubricity, and light nutritive qua- Ifties. The manner of administering the cremor of the ptisan, (h) is to be regulated by the patient’s former manner of living, and urgency of the symptoms; the greater the disc,iiargc frojtn the lungs, the more freely may the ptisan be used. There is no necessity of keeping the vessels empty, except on the days that a purge, or clyster, is administered. But I know some physicians act quite contrary to what they ought, (i) For their method is, after they have exhausted their patient, in the beginning of the disease, by an abstinence of two, three, or even more days ; then allow them sorbile aliment, and li- quors, upon this principle, perhaps, that it seems reasonable to compensate, for one great change in the body, by introducing another as great, and contrary. The ptisan should be continued two days after the crisis, particularly where there is an appearance on the fifth, seventh, or ninth day, always having regard to an equal number of days. Ptisan should be drank, when (r) De ration vict. in acut. (ty A physician worthy of praise, who improves the treatment of acute distempers. (t) Their fatal effects. (u) Hippocrates observes, that more die of acute diseases than aU other distempers. (i) He remarks the ignorance of mankind in general, of the abilities of physicians. fj/) Dangerofsuddenlyaltcringthe habit, by anover emptiness, (j) Giving food inthc height of inflammation, equally dangerous. (o' Ignoraiu men may pass for able physicians by arts. (i) Knowledge in the art acquired by study only. (c) Some prejudices censured. (d) The contrariety of opinions, he comparee to augury. (e) He is much against an universal emptiness of the vessels. (/) Evacuation by purges. (g) Ptisan was understood the barley and w ater all together, the juice, or cremor was the strained liquor, what we now call barley water. (h) Maouet of giving the ptbaa. (i) Some prejudices of other physicians censured.