HISTORY °OF MEDICINE. Ivii ■ ! REMEDIES FOR SUPPRESSED MENSES. I HE recommended purges and vomits, and afterward the use of sharp irritating pessaries; perfumes, fomentations, and ; hot baths, twice in the day. Internally, orethmus, or samphire, boiled in wine, made of the tree called tceda, the herb mercury, and chiches. If those W'ore too weak, five cantharides, without heads, wings, or feet; water caltrops, anthemus, I smallage seeds, and fifteen dried eggs, infused in wine. C^J Leaves of ranunculus, infused in wine, dittany of crctc, hogs fennel, ranex, peony root, seeds of white violets, the juice oFcolcworts, of lasserpitium to the quantity of a vetch, and cress j seeds; these last infused in wine, or bitches milk. IN AN IMMODERATE UTERINE HEMORRHAGE. ABSTAIN from all heating things, and bathing; CO from all duretics, or laxatives; make the bed highest at the feet. I Astringent pessaries were likewise used. The belly and lower parts to be covered with sponge, or cloths dipped in cold water, C^J or drink a composition of parsley seeds, or seeds of hedge mustard, dried at the fire; peplium, or poppy seeds, sifted, with flour, nettle seeds, moss of the wild olive, gauls, rue, marjorum, pennyroyal, barley-meal, wheat flour, goats milk, and cheese, made into a kind of cyceon. fxj When the hemorrhage was stopped, purges and vomits were used, and restringent fomentations to the lower parts. Afterw'ards cows milk, boiled, or as it comes from the cow; the seeds of crisium, parched, and drank with wine; perfume, consisting of vinegar, sulphur, opelt, and myrrh. In another place he reckons hemlock amongst the inward medicines. Take as much hemlock as you can with three fingers, and drink it with water. Injections he likewise directed, for the matrix, in case of ulcers, and for some other disorders, of the same ingredients as the fomentations, cataplasms, &c. As for diet, he ordered nourishing fish, boiled with onions, and coriander seeds, in sweet oily pickle; swines flesh, lamb, or mutton, rather boiled than roasted; to drink small white wine, with a little honey; but not to ! use hot bathing, and he absolutely forbade bleeding. 1 HYSTERIC AFFECTIONS. I HYSTERIC complaints are sometimes occasioned by the suppression of the lochia, after delivery, (y) If hysteric fits |j happen to virgins, matrimony is a proper remedy, (z) Women, easily seized with hysteric disorders, are subject to I convulsions, (b) During the fits, wine was directed to be poured down their mouths; and under their noses were burnt ij foetid things, as wool, pitch, castor, brimstone, leather, horns, and feathers, and the snuff of a lamp, just extinguished, with intention to recover them from the fainting fits, to make them sweat, and restore the matrix, (c) He ordered the belly to be swathed; at the same time pressing the matrix downwards. Pessaries of oil, wool, and various powders, were used; as castor, myrrh, peucedanum pitch, milanthuim, and sometimes even the bruprestris, (d) and cantharides; mixing all these with ointments and wool. When they recovered from the fit, he used a purge, and afterwards a diet of asses milk. The use of pessaries was very common amongst the ancients, to relax, lenify, to draw, to irritate, to cleanse, to dry the matrix. They used various things, united with fat of different animals, and wool; using sometimes nitre, scammony, tithmale, garlick, : cummin, cantharides. (e) Sometimes astringents, as the rind and flower of pomegranates, sumach, and sometimes aromatics. To provoke or check the menses, for relaxations, and superfluities, ulcerations, inflammations, dropsy, ftuor albus, and sterility; to promote abortions, dead children, and secundines; and for promoting the discharge ot the lochia I after the delivery tJf the foetus, (f) I q OF j fs) Cantharides internally. Lib. de homine. (u) De morb. mnlier. I (i) Cyceon, said to be a mixture about the consistence of pap, composed of wine, honey, fine flour and water, and cheese. Another sort, without . wine, honey, or cheese, consisting only of flour and water, was used by the lower class of people. (y) De morb. mulier. (2) De virgin, morb. (a) The ancients concluded that all these complaints arose from the womb. (6) Coac. 349. and 554. (c j Hippocrates, we presume, mistook the inflation of the intestines, for the matrix, (d) A sort of fly, resembling cantharides. (ej Various ingredients in pessaries. (f) Used for various purposes.