V INTRODUCTION, Scci students inclined to be satisfied with truth, separated from all fleeting and idle iiypotheSis, by being early and promptly initiated into the past and present states of medicine, they might be enabled to industriously commence improvements, wherever defects were discoverable, and thus give a de- gree of perfection and stability to the healing art, unknown to our predecessors: which every hu- mane practitioner must ardently wish.* These attempts to improve the modes of instruction, huma- nity and the art demanded, as some small return for the confidence the author hath enjoyed nearly fifty years as a medical practitioner in this great metropolis; for if his practice and experience had not been so very extensive, he could not have been able to make these and other numerous ob- servations to be found in the Rational Practice of Physic, &c. The first road to amendment is to discover defects; the second to eradicate, if possible, error; the third to avoid future prejudices, by the exclusion of opinions however plausible; and fourthly, to be determined to generously em- brace the truth, however it may remind us of past ill-formed conceits, from whatever quarter it may originate. By these liberal means hypothesis and falshood will be banished from the healing art, and it will speak a new language, the language of truth, to the confusion of all those, who, for temporary advantages, or vanity, lead juvenile students into vain, useless speculations, instead of impressing on their young minds the necessity of admitting no proposition that is not fully proved. The vain attempt to account for every phacnomenon in nature, however incomprehensible, has led philosophers and physicians into continual error: they often confound the inquiry, which may be laud- able, for the attainment. If men w'ould first study Locke on the of human understanding, and what things the utmost industry may accomplish, they would not rush into the vice of supposing every thing obtainable that is sought; but they would rather modestly rest satisfied with what is ac- quirable, and acknowledge their incapacity in every inquiry that exceeds the limits of human com- prehension. The lesson of the great philosopher cannot be too frequently inculcated to all human beings, know thyself. This study might exclude vicious arrogance, and self-conceited importance, from the medical art; for medicine should be the science of humanity and humility. If univer- sal self-knowledge were more the object of man’s consideration, all reports and assertions would be well considered and analised before they received assent. Credulity is the vice of the ignorant through simplicity, and of the well-informed through inattention: but whatever may be its excel- lence in spiritual matters, it is highly reprehensible in philosophy. If any thing can mark the dif- ference between strong and weak intellects, itis cool prudent caution, or imprudent vicious credulity; and it may be affirmed, without hesitation, that in proportion as any man is credulous in what can- not be comprehended, he is superficial, insane, or fatuitous. This doctrine, applied to medicine, attacks, in some instances, most of the writers and philosophers, sects, and system-makers, from Hippocrates * Many writers reason apparently well, and practice ill. In dangerous cases they often depend on inefficacious medicines. No inconsiderable part of the Latin work was arranged and written whilst the author was attending his terms at the Uvkersity of Oxford, but various observations have arisen from the author’s travels into hot climates, when in his hlajesty’s service, from 1760 to 1765, and through most parts of Europe, afterward, to inspect the excellence or defects of medical education and practice in the principal Unvversities and Hospitals: and he is convinced, from constant study, experience, and reflection, that theory without extensive practice, is like a body without a soul.