( 2*6 ) those who have not such important, very important ail- vantHgcs. V. Dr. Hooper has judiciously instituted wcekl}' c.xanii- rations, trom which none of the pupils are allowed to be ab- sent, under pain of a small pecuniary forfeit; and in the pro- per seasons of tlic year, anatomical demonstrations are made monthly, by every pupil of the lirst and second class; ar.d 1 am hap|)y to say, in farther confirmalion ot what is ad- vanced, that they acquit themselves highly honourable to the institution, that has been established for tlieir future fortune in life, and the public utility. If similar plans were carried into eft'ect in all the provincial, or county hospitals, the students would be well grounded in theoretical and practical science, before they came to London to finish their studies, and his Majesty would be ceitain of having c.xcellent sur- geons and learned physicians for the navy and army, which was not the case a fiMv years ago, and the whole country would reap the benefit by the salvation of thousands of lives, who fall victims to error, empiricism, ine.xperience, and deficient science.^ \'I. The upils, in rotation, write all the prescriptions in the hospital books, the names, age, and disease of patients, over the bed’s head in the wards ; and when |)roperly qualilied by studies and experience, they assist in visiting the out-door patient^ under the direction of Dr. Hooper, the assistant residoiw^ihysician, and Mr. Phillips, surgeon to the house- hold of Kis Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. VH. The pupils are obliged to give the chemical analysis of bodies, the doctrines of compo.sition, decomposition, &c. and Dr. Hooper explains the materia mcdica, and makes, occasionally, botanical excursions, exhibits pharmaceutic chemistry; so that it must appear evident, that every mode of- communicating science is adopted that can be suggested ; and notliing but a deficiency in the natural intellects, can prevent the tyro from becoming the respectable practitioner. At most other places they are left to learn what they please ; here every one is compelled to become proficient in what- ever tasks arc directed, according to the classes, which are divided into three. VHI. Every year at Christmas, a report is made by Dr. Tioopcr, of the number of patients admitted into the in- firmary, as to the out patients they arc innumerable. It may be observed, that numerous diseases are admitted, which most other great hospitals in London reject, as many in- fectious diseases, the srnall-pox, lying-in women, &c. &c, and thougli we have npt so many chirurgical operations as some, yet there are few, at one time, or other, that are not performed. ' It must appear, therefore,-evident, that the diseases com- mon to infants at tiuir birth, lying in women, of boys and girjs, frpm that age to puberty, from thence to the middle age, and, lastly, from that time to the latest hour of lile, to the arms of SO’and above 100 of both sexes, even until death; all, all come constantly under view, arranged so as one afl'ccti<jn cannot be confounded with another. The anatomical investigations after death, explain the effects ot diseases, and lead to tlieir causes, and how, and when tliey might have, probably, been prevented from leading to fata- lity. After such au education, after such an experience, after such numerous facts are imprinted on young minds, be- fore baneful jiassions predominate, it is highly rational to suppose, the pupils will not be led away from the paths of truth by lieetiug hypothesis, by those mushroom conceits, that are daily exuding from the brains of those who are in-i- competent and superficial judges ot the present excellent slate of the art, men, who only surprise to deceive. It commonly liappciis, that speculations and practice arc • ever at direct variance, and high and irrational expc'ctations arc cruelly damped, and severely punish- ed by disappointment. 'I herefore, when novelties ajipear, read, reflect, investigate, reason logically, never suffer an in- flamed imagination to preside over sage circumspection ; and judge impartially before you conclude; but never desert known truths, for unproved projects. There aie many roads to the same end, and he is ■a'ised, who discovers and pursues the safest, speediest, and best. The work and the evening of life are approaching to a final close. 'I'he exposure of fallacy has often crcaced pri- vate professional enemies and calumny; but if the offensive, though well intended censures, have served the cause of hu- manity and science, all the ends proposed are accomplished. Suffer the author, then, to finish his career in the, words of that excellent and virtuous Roman, Quintillian. Conscius sum mihi quantum rnediocrifate •calui, quoeque antea scierim, qua.que operis hujusce gratia potuerim inquirere, candide ine, atquc simplidter in notitiam eorum, §i qui forte cognoscere voluisseut, protulisse. Atque id viro bono satis est, docuisse quod scierit. * It is not to the honour of the country, that ignorance in anatomy is enforced by the luKS of the land. Medical men are expected to be skilful, abd are liable to be punished for ignorance; yet the sources of anatomical intelligence, ora which the foundation of all true medical knowledge depends, ami without which no learned medical author, nor no disease can be comprehended, are legally impeded,or rendered so hazardous, that many prefer ignorance to science, from the danger attending anatomical researches. When the dead body bill was agitated in the House of Commons, 1 came forth, singly, and delivered my sentiments, and sent a small pamphlet on the subject to every member of Lords and Commons, shewing how the evils might easily be removed, without doing any violation to the dead, or injuring the feelings of the living. The institutions at Rauis, arc rational and publicly useful; but they originated from the great Colbert, the wise minister of Loujs Quatorze. In this avaricious, commercial, monopolizing country, nothing but self is considered, and the public good is frequently sacrificed to prejudices, or a vicious pride, that never listens to the voice of reason. At the end of my treatise on dropsy aic reprinted what wa-s respectfully submitted to the legislature of Great Britain; but 1 was informed, that alavy oflicer objected to those proposals, allhough my efforts prevented the dead body bill from passing into a law, on which much more might he. %i\\A, sed nune taeendum ist. The anatomical professors in London arc an honour to the country and orna- ments to society, who, under many disadvantages, at the hazard of health, Ac. instruct pupils, and teach the true road to fame and fortune. '1 heir arduous labours merit the highest estimation from society, and all the profession. The nation reaps the benefit, and the government of this and every wise nalioti, should liberally afford recompense: equal to their high and U'^uscendent merit. »