CVlll HISTORY OF MEDICINE 111. Theoretic IN THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY. Several Universities are established, particularly in Ger- many. Guido de Cauliaco, of Paris. Paul of Neuremberg, professor at Vienna. IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY. The invention of printing, in 1440. Duretus, Simon .lanuensis, Matthias Sylvaticus. Alexander Benedictus, Cuspinianus. Barthal Montagnana, professor at Bononia. Basilius Valentinus. Joannes de Baireuth, Scliedcl Wienmaim. Several Portugese, Spaniards, Frenchmen, Englishmen, and Germans. Hitherto the medicine of Hippocrates, Aristotle, and Ga- len, was in repute. IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY. Chemical medicine. Theophrastus Paracelsus, 1528. Van Helmont, Cornelius Agrippa, Guinterius, Fernelius, Vesalius, Fracastorius, Cornarus. Conrad Gesner. IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. Tachenius, Sylvius. Sennertus, philosophy, chemistry, anatomy, mechanics, natural history, and botany, are better cultivated. The Cartesian system of philosophy and medicine. Fliuld, Wirdig, Dolaeus. Bartholini, Prosper Alpinus, William Harvey, l628, dis- covered the circulation of the blood. Sanctorius, Sydenham, Beecher. An academy of sciences is instituted in Paris and London, which are now the chief depots of natural curiosities, IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. The mechanical and organic systems of medicine. The philosophy of Leibnitz and Wolfius. Mathematical physicians. Irritability. New experiments. An increase of dogmatic, theoretic, and practical medicine. The following great men, as well as many others, have en- lightened this age. Floffman, Stahl, Boerhaave, - Wedelius hlorgani. Van Swieten, Haller, Linnasus, Cullen Plenck. Posterity will decide the merits of many existing physicians, and professors in various parts of the world. A SYNOPTIC TABLE OF MEDICINE. I. General preparatory information, relative to the study of physic. 1. The study of ancient and modern languages, as Greek, Latin, French, English, Italian, &:c. 2. Literary history, particularly of medicine. 3. General philosophy, particularly logic. 4. Mathematics, in a limited degree. 5. Natural philosophy, as demonstrated by experiments. H. Particular sciences, indispensably necessary in the medical art. 1. Natural history, botany, zoologia, mineralogy. 2. The anatomy of the human body in a state of health and disease, with comparative anatomy. 3. General chemistry, particularly that part which is applicable to physic. 4. The materia mcdica, or a knowledge of medicines, which includes pharmacy, or the preparation of remedies, and the method of compounding them for administration.