THE THE GENITAL PARTS OF MEN. These consist of the penis. testicles. vesiculjE seminales. THE PENIS Is likewise called membrum virile. DIVISION. Into root, body, and head, called glans. ' The glans has a broad base, called the crown of the glans ; and an apex, which has an orilice of the urethra. The mons veneris is a fatty protuberance, covered with hair, lying on the junction of the bones of the pubis. THE SUBSTANCE OF THE PENIS IS FORMED By common integuments. ' two corpora cavernosa, j corpus spongiosum, and I urethra itself. I The extension of skin, covering the glans, is called the I prepuce, which adheres to the glans, at the inferior I part, by a membranous fold, called the fra:num. 'The two corpora cavernosa consist of a spongy structure; they arise, on each side, from the arch of the ischium, j pass along the penis above the urethra, touching each I other, and end, by obtuse apices, under the crown of ' the glans. The cavernous, or spongy substance of the urethra, is thick j at its origin before the neck of the bladder, which is I called its bulb; it then surrounds the whole length of I the urethra, as far as the apices, or terminations of j the corpora cavernosa, then expands, to form the glans penis. The urethra is a membranous canal, arising from the neck of J the bladder, and passes under, and betweep the cor- 1 pora cavernosa of the penis, to the apex of the glans, which it perforates, by a longitudinal fissure. The verumontanum is a cutaneous prominence, situated in I the cavity of the urethra, before the neck of the j bladder. I THE GLANDS OF THE PENIS ARE il. The muciparous glands of the urethra, situated under its internal coat. 2. The odoriferous glands, which are on, and about the corona of the glans penis. |). The prostrate gland, which is single, surrounding the in* ferior neck of the bladder. USE OF THE PENIS I Is to emit semen, and discharge urine. THE TESTICLES. Are two oval bodies, contained in the cavity of the scrotum. The epidydimis, or accessory testicle, is an appendix to it, and lying on the testicle, in which a head, or anterior extremity ; and a tail, or posterior extremity, may be observed. THE INTEGUMENTS OF THE TESTICLE ARE 1. The scrotum is a membranous bag, divided in the middle by a membrane, called the septum, into two cavities; it consists of the epidermis, cutis, and a fibrous mem- brane, called daiTon. 2. The tunica vaginalis is of a cellular membrane, beginning at the abdominal ring, and enclosing the spermatic chord, as well as the testicle. 3. The tunica albuginea, or tunica vaginalis testis, is of a white colour, and firmly adheres to the substance of the testicle. The substance of the testicle, and epidydimis, consists of very fine white canals, finally terminating in the epidydimis, which leads into the vas deferens. The vas deferens, arising from the end of the epidydimis, ascends with thcspermatic chord through the inguinal, or abdominal ring, and terminates near the vesicula; seminales, in the cavity of the pelvis. The spermatic chord, therefore, consists of the vas deferens, spermatic artery, and vein; nerve, absorbents, and tunica vaginalis, which covers the cremaster muscle. USE. To secrete, and prepare semen. THE VESICUL.E SEMINALES Are two membranous receptacles, which receive the semen from the vasa deferentia, and retain it. THEIR SITUATION. Is upon the neck of the bladder, between it and the rectum. The excretory duct, of each vesicula, goes into the cavity of the urethra, and opens by a peculiar aperture. USE. To receive the semen, and e.xpel it into the urethra, in coition. THE GENITAL PARTS OF WOMEN. The parts of generation, in women, are divided into external and internal. THE EXTERNAL ARE The mons veneris, labia majora. minora, clitoris, hymen. Oo