IxviK HISTORY OF MEDICINE. (x) Luxation of the toci or fingers, with a wound. the member. The remainder of the hand, which tlie surgeon holds in his left hand, must be wound about, upwards, until it come to the end of the first hand. Then the pledgets, dipped into some convenient liquor, are to be applied, lengthways, to the limb, so as to extend both above and below the fracture, and between these longitudinal pledgets there should be, at least, . two fingers breadth distance from each other. These arc to be rolled on with a double headed roller, winding one part upwards and the other downwards; and afterwards returning them, till they meet on the part fractured. On the seventh day, after all fear of inflammation is past, ferulaes arc to be applied with pledgets, nearly the length of the limb, and fixed on with three ligatures, at equal distances. ON LUXATIONS. IIIPPOCRATES has been particularly attentive to the treatment of dislocations; and used various means for their re- duction. For the reducing the os-humeri, he had recourse to the ambe, a sling, and the ladder. For the reduction of the lower extremities, he placed the patients on a table, or form; and, securing them, made extension, by means of strong ligatures, or by the hands of strong men. In the Treatise De Fracturis, it is remarked, that in the reduction of luxations one constitution is widely different from another; (m) since, in some, the task is easy, and in others highly difficult, (n) The ligaments are also widely different; lor, in some they are lax, in others dense. But there are many of so moist, and succulent a habit of body, that they can at pleasure luxate, and reduce their articulations. Luxations do not easily happen in corpulent patients; but when they do happen, they are with difficulty reduced: whereas, the contrary holds true, in persons of lean habits. He likewise says, that the parts of the body destined for any particular purpose, are moderately used, and exercised in that for which they were designed; (o) they continue sound, and are increased in strength; but if ^they be not used, they become morbid, decrease in size, and, as it were, become old. ('p) This happens principally to the nerves, tendons, or joints, unless they are daily used. The general rule for reducing luxations, is, to perform it with the utmost expedition, and immediately after the disaster happens, (q) For, says our author, the reduction is then most easily made, and the patient subjected to the least pain, if the dislocation be reduced before the joint becomes tumid. The most dangerous luxations are to be reduced on the same, or next day; (r) but not on the third and fourth, as they are then in a state of inflammation, and swelling. AVhen, therefore, they are not reduced, within ten days, they are generally retained in their dislocated state, (s) It is improper to reduce any luxated bone, when a fever is present, and especially that of the cubit; for a fever is a sign and concomitant, of a violent inflammation, accompanying the luxation. In a tetanus, and espithotonus, (t) & luxation of the jaw-bone is mortal; (u) for such a luxation cannot be reduced, by reason of the tetanus; and, unless it be speedily reduced, the life of the patient is in the most imminent danger. In the Treatise De Articulis, he absolutely despairs of the reduction of such fracture, wherein the bones about the ankles are totally luxated, whether to the external or internal part, when attended with a wound; (x) for, if they be reduced, such violent convulsions succeed, as to destroy the patient in a few days. In this case few survive the seventh day; and the only hope of the patient’s safety, consists in not reducing the bones, when thus luxated, though, at the same time, an unseemly lameness continues during the whole remainder of the patient’s life. When the bones of the arm are luxated with a wound, the danger is equal, and lu.xations of this kind are, of all others, the most dangerous, when they happen to the large bones. Hence, if the os femur be luxated at the knee, and produces a wound, the reduction of it will sooner prove mortal than in any other case; and, though it be not reduced, yet it is far more dangerous than other luxations, (y) When the bones of the toes and fingers are lu.xated, so as to produce a wound, an attempt to reduce them is directed, though with the utmost caution, (z) In these cases, the reduced bones generally are easily luxated again; for which reason, the reduction (m) De fractnris. ' (n) DiA'erence of articulation; some lax, others dense, (o) De articulis. (p) Utility of exercise daily. (j) De articulis. (r) De articulis. (f) Improper to attempt the rediiclion, if inflammation or fever attends. (f) Espithotonus and tentanus. Coacse prenot. (u) A luxation of the jaw-bone, when mortal, (i) The ill consequences of a dislocated ankle, when attended with a wound and laceration. (y) The luxation of the femoris, at the knee, with a wound, most dangerous. ^