( 119 ) SHAPE. TllE EMINENCES ARE 1. The tuberosity of the ileum at the posterior part, where it is connected with the os sacrum. 2. The crista of the ileum, which forms its superior and thick margin. 3. The posterior spine of the ileum, which is the beginning of the crista, at the posterior part. 4. The anterior and superior spine of the ileum, which marks the termination of the crista, at its anterior part. 5. The anterior and inferior spine of the ileum, which is just under the last mentioned spine. 6. The crista of the bones of the pubis, forming the superior margin of these bones. 7. The arch of the pubis, at the anterior part of the ossa innominata. 8. The tuberosity of the ischium, forms the inferior margin of that bone on which wc sit. 9. The spine of the ischium is behind its tuberosity. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. The external iliac cavity, at the external surface of the ileum. 2. The internal iliac cavity, on the internal surface of this » bone. 3. A notch, or excissura, between the anterior spines of the ileum. - 4. The anterior ischiatic notch, which is before the spine of the ischium. 15. The posterior ischiatic notch behind the spine ischium. [6. The acetabulum, formed by three portions of the os in- I nominatum, which receives the head of the os femoris. 17. The fovea of the acetabulum, which is at its most internal I part, contains the synovial glands, and the ligamen- 1 turn teres of the thigh bone. 8. The foramen avale, formed by the arch of the os pubis, and ischium. ) I CONNECTION OF THESE BONES WITH EACH OTHER. The ossa pubis, by cartilaginous symphisis. The ileum with the sacrum, by synchondrosis ; and with the thigh bone, by enarthrosis. VSE. To form the pelvis; to retain the gravid uterus in its situation; to contain the acetabulum, in which the head of the 1 thigh bone is placed. ^THE SACRUM. SITUATION. At the posterior part of the pelvis. • SHAPE. ' - Triangular, inclined forwards. DIVISION. Into anterior and posterior surfaces; into base or upper part; into sides and apex. THE PROTUBERANCES ARE 1. Two superior oblique apophyses, projecting at the base of this bone. 2. Tubercles of the spinous apophyses. 3. oblique apophyses. transverse apophyses, which are all on the posterior surface. ■5. The appearances of the vertebral bodies on the anterior surface. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. Four pair of external foramina on the external surface. 2. Four pair of internal foramina on the internal surface, through which the sacral nerves pass. 3. The longitudinal canal, containing the sacral nerves, visible on the posterior surface. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES, 1. With the last lumbar vertebra. 2. os coccygis. 3. os innominatum. SUBSTANCE. Is entirely spongy, formed by the conjunction of the' five spurious vertebrae. USE. To form the pelvis; and to support the dorsal spine. ' OS COCCYGIS. SITUATION. At the apex of the os sacrum. SHAPE. Ti’iangular. DIVISION. Into base, sides, and apex. COMPOSITION. It is formed by three small spurious vertebrae, joined tooetlier by cartilage. , CONNECTION. It is connected with the apex of .the os sacrum, by synchon- drosis. USE. To form the pelvis ; to support the rectum; and to prevent a laceration of the perineum, during child-birth. THE CLAVICLE. SITUATION. Is oblique, at tKe superior and lateral part of (he thorax, between the sternum and scapula.