INTRODUCTION, &c. xv On the EYE and DOCTRINE of VISION. Plate XLII. shews the arteries, tunics, and humours of choroidi instratum, plicx processuum ciliarium, or plaits of the eye in five figures, which prepares the mind for the skil- the ciliary processes, annulus, or ring of the iris, &c. in six ful consideration of eye diseases, p. 92. figures, p. 95. Plate XLIII. shews the nerves of the bulb of the eye, Plate XLVI. Muscles of the bulb of 'the eye in five vessels, &c. ganglion, opthalmicum, with the ciliary figures, p. g6. nerves, drc. muscles, &c. p. 93. Plate XLVII. The representation of the heart injected Plate XLIV. exhibits the membrana coronis ciliaris, by with wax in two figures, with the auricles, large vessels, &c. which is joined the chrystalline lens with the vitreous humour, concerned in the circulation of the blood, p. 97. &c. their minute arteries—Mcibomius's glands, viie lachry- Plate XLVIII. explains the circulation of the blood, marum, &c. in ten figures, p. 94. the valves of the heart, &c. as the valvul® mitrales, tricus- Plate XLV. Origin of the tunics of the eye, -reticulum pidalcs, &c. &c.p. 98, An epitome of anatomy for the junior students, and for those intended only to practise surgery, Ac. in which is abridged all that is necessary to be known for the purposes of practice, particularly for surgery, and midwifery, &c. p. 105. IJygrology^ or the doctrine of the fluids of the human body, whether secreted, or not secreted. PHYSIOLOGIA. The explanation of the functions and actions of all parts of the living or animated human body. Anatomy demonstrates all the parts in the dead body; physiology considers and explains the manner in which the living body performs the functions necessary for life and health, &c. The physiology of the human body is gi'eatly abridged, and yet is ample, as to utility. It is shewn in a new point of view in three columns in the Latin edition, from which are excluded all idle hy- potheses and vain speculations; under the heads of physiology—scholi-a—pathology—by which at one view are seen the doctrines of the parts and functions, the real causes of their action, as far as human understanding extends, and their appearances after death from diseases, which form the foundation of morbid causes, and rational plans of cure. Plate XLIX. shews the pharynx and larynx, or the organs of swallowing, voice, &c. in many figures from dissections fully explained, p. 99- Plate L. Of the organ of hearing, p. 100. Plate L. (2) Reference plate to the former, p. 100. Plate LI. Of the omentum, intestines, &c. in which some errors arc corrected,p. lOK Plate LII. Second plate of the same with the bile, ducts, &c. to shew the course of the bile, p. 102. Plate LIII. The genital parts of men, arranged in a con- cise manner, p. 103. Plate LIV. The- genital patts of women,, external and internal, p. 104. An epitome of modern physiology, containing the principal objects necessary to be remembered in the theory and practice of physic, now translated with additions, p. 155. The plates in the Schola Medicinae, including reference plates, amount to sixty-eight, elegantly engraved by capital artists, among whom will be found Sharp, Royce, Cooke, &c. The bones and muscles, arterial and venal systems, are particularly designed for surgery students, and the v.'hole work, for those who wish to become learned physicians.. The various plates of the nerves ^ * their