U u I he { ) The object of the voice is, therefore, vibrating air; for the air striking against the larynx in its passage, out- wards, causes that part to shake, which communi- cates its motion again to the air. The larynx, more especially its fissure, is the organ of voice. The grave or acute sounds, 'depend on the greater or less diameter of the fissure of the larynx, or glottis, or the size of the larynx, its elasticity, and force of ex- piration. A whisper is the passage of the air through the larynx,' without vibration. TIIE USE or THE VOICE Is for speech and singing. THE SPEECH. . Speech is the voice in the cavity of the nostrils, fauces, and mouth, variously modulated. All speech consists in the pronunciation of letters, which are divided into vowels and consonants. Vowels are letters pronounced by the voice only, without applying the tongue to any part of the mouth. Consonants are formed by applying the tongue to any part of the mouth, teeth, or lips. Letters are therefore distinguished into oral, nasal, guttural, lingual, dental, labial, palatine, or compound—as orenasal, Ac. Ac. Singing is a kind of speech, in which Jhe voice is modulated in the various degrees of grave and sharp sounds, the larynx being kept in a vibrating state. Speech is given to man alone, in all the animal creation. THE USES OF SPEECH ARE 1. To enable man to communicate his ideas and sensations to another. 12. That man may learn necessary arts, languages, and j sciences; and be-able to teach others. 3. To delight himself and others by singing. I WATCHING. I The aptitude of exercising the animal actions—as sense, and the voluntary use of muscles, is called watching, or I being awake. I The proximate cause of watching, is a great quantity of I nervous influence, passing easily through the medulla j of the brain and nerves to the sensitive organs, and I ' voluntary muscles. The remote cause of this encrcase of nervous influence, it any irritation of the external or internal senses. ' SLEEP. Sleep is a state of the body, during which there is an ina- bility of exercising the internal and external senses, and voluntary motions. The proximate cause of sleep, therefore, is a deficiency or tardy motion of the nervous influence, through the medulla of the brain and nerves, which go to the organs of sense, and voluntary muscles. The remote causes inducing sleep, are continued watching and labour, by which the nervous power is considerably diminished; also, a defect of irritation, rest of tlic, mind, particularly in a dark place. The nervous energy or irritation, being restored by sleep, is the natural cause of the returning state of being awake. THE PII.3£N0MENA OF SLEEP COMING ON, ARE The muscles keeping the body in an erect posture, become weaker. The palpebrae of the eyes are closed, and the inferior max- illary bone falls; the bead nods; gaping comes, and e.xternal objects, scarcely affect us; afterwards, the ideas are confused, and, at last, are lost, then sleep begins. A doze is a state of imperfect sleep, in which a particular part of the common sensorium is irritated, producing a kind of watching. A doze arises from some oircumstance, which does not take place in a sound sleep—as a strong idea, irritation of the stomach by food, a stimulus in the intestines or bladder; and an uncomfortable posture. The causes of the continued action of the heart and vessels, respiration and motion of the stomach and intestines, during sleep, is the great irritability of those parts ; and the number of nerves and ganglions, to which jnay be added, the continual action of stimuli on them. USE OF SLEEP. 1. Rest of the animal actions; that is, of the senses, and voluntary motions. 2. To moderate the vital actions, by which the body is not so much impaired. 3. To cause a more perfect exercise of the natural actions— as digestion, secretion, and nutrition, 4. To renew the nervous energy which is necessary to per- form every action. ON NATURAL ACTIOxNS, GENERALLY, THOSE ACTIONS, BY WHICH OUR BODY IS PRESERVED, ARE Called natural—as HUNGER Is a sensation which causes a desire of taking food.