xli HISTORY OF MEDICINE VOMITING. , . . HIPPOCRATES held that consumptive people should not be vomited, (h) nor those who are fronbied with a lientery, or slipperiness of the intestines. But, he says, that a spontaneous vomiting removes a diarrhoea, which has continued a long time, (i) A consumption succeeds a vomiting of blood, with a throwing up of corrupted matter, (k) • Evacuation upward is absolutely necessary to one who has no fever, yet has a loss of appetite, gnawing at the stomach’s entrance, (1) ^ dizziness, with a dimness of sight, and bitterness of the mouth. Those who have a pain above the diaphragm require an evacuation upwards, (mj Vomits are likewise recommended by Hippocrates, as an excellent preservative of health, and as a preventive of disease*. (n) Eor this purpose, he recommends a decoction of hyssop, with a little salt and vinegar; a decoction of lentils, a little salt and vinegar; honey, water, and vinegar, and such like remedies, to provoke a gentle vomiting. Those who were strong and healthful, were to use their vomits fasting; lean persons, and those who were delicate, and weakly after dinner or supper, THE APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLE REMEDIES IN THE MATERIA MEDICA, OF HIPPOCRATt^S, TO VARIOUS DISEASES. Bakley water, hydromel, and oxymel.—In acute diseases, and in epidemic fevers. Castor and myrrh.—For the diseases of women, obstructions, and hysteric affections. Acetum.—For sore throats, ardent fevers, vomitings, phrenzy, peripneumony, pleurisy, inflammations^and viscidities, Garlick.—For cold phlegm, and inflammations of the lungs. Allubi.—To cure hemorrhages, check uterine discharges, and strengthen the uterus, &c. Spices.—To promote the menses, and cure phlegmatic diseases. Fresh ox Gael.—As a luxative to kill worms, for purgingsupposotaries, and uterine pessaries, Cantkarides.—In dropsies, and to promote the urine, and menses. Diet of onions.—For the jaundice, and to promote conception. Long abstinence from food.—In dropsies, jaundice, diarrhoeas, gouty, or rheumatic pains, asthmas, and disorders of the lungs, and spleen. Clysters.—For pains and overfulness in the head, dry, hot, and windy cholics, pains of the womb, abdomen, pleurisy, fevers, pains of the loins, &c. Cupping.—For pains in the head and eyes, bruises, peripneumony, pains of the hip, and other parts. Elaterium.—^To purge bile, expel the foetus, or purge in cancers, ulcers, jaundice, sore throat, &c. Frictions.—With oil, to strengthen weak joints, and relax stiff ones. Cold bath,—For faintings and hysterical fits, to restrain the menses, prevent miscarriages, rheumatic pains. To be avoided.—In diseases of the lungs, as asthmas, coughs, consumptions, &c. diseases of the liver, and I tabes dorsalis. i Juniper berries.—As a powerful diuretic, to provoke the discharge of urine. Asses milk.—In excessive fluxes from the bowels or womb, for slow fevers, consumptions, and diseases of the lungs. Linseed.—In wounds and ulcers, and outwardly in emollient anodyne fomentations. Soi7R apples.—^To be made into drink for fevers. I Meconium or poppies.—For excessive fluxes, and pains in the uterus. I Honey.—For fevers and inflammations as a resolvent. As a pectoral in coughs, and a laxative in clysters, I Mint.—A stomachic and cordial for vomiting, jaundice, and weak stomachs. I Myrrh.—For most disorders of the stomach, and for obstructions of the menses, and to cleanse ulcerations in t1i« I mouth and gums. ID Nitrs I (h) Improper to vomit consumptive people. (i) H Diset, XXXI. 15, Loc. in hom. XLV. 8. Coac. III. T. Moth, VI. 10. VII. 5, (k) Prajdict. XIV. 1,3.1, jMorb. XL <9, XIX, 4. ad. XX. (1) Affect. XIV. 12.11. Moib. mul. XXJV. 2. Aph. 17. Sect. IV. {m) Verat. u». 1.10.11« Gentle vomiting recommended.