Ixii HISTORY OF MEDICINE The doctrines of the flacciduity of the breasts, and the prognostics, whether the mother shall miscarry of a male, or fe- male, in cases of abortion, are idle and superstitious. The applying cantharides, to discover the fecundity of a woman is cruel and absurd. These prejudices of Hippocrates, which, in some measure, still prevail, maybe attributed more to the want of proper in- formation from the females, who probably in Greece, were rather delicate and reserved on these occasions, than an intention to mislead mankind. Besides, the obstetric art, has but very lately been studied by men of learning; and it is by this means only, that these prejudices could be discovered, and refuted. In the art of midwifery, no practice could be suimrior to the ancient in the natural labour; for the expulsion of the foetus is entirely left to the efforts of nature ; and certainly in most cases, nature alone performs the whole necessary work. When a preternatural presentation happened ; by what means the presenting part was removed, and the head produced in the na- turalway, is not easily comprehended. At this time, such an operation is absolutely impracticable ; and yet, the moderns have a clearer conception of the form of the pelvis, the decent of the foetus, and the manner of assisting in preternatural labours, than the ancients. There is no other manner of accounting for this singular practice, than, on a presumption that the female pelvis must have been more capacious amongst the Greeks, than our modern females; who probably injure their natural shape by tight lacing, according to any prevailing fashion. The feet presenting commonly proved fatal to the mother and child, according to Hippocrates ; whereas no presentation of the preternatural kind, is acknowledged more simple by the moderns, and none so easily delivered. However, if the feet of the infant vvere forced back, in order to reduce the labour, agreeably to the ancient doctrines, when the uterus was in a state of contraction, to a natural presentation ; the utmost efforts, most probably, would be frustrated, and the life of the mother, or child, be hazarded. The infant, from the violence offered to its body ; the mother from the injury received by the uterus. The methods for the delivery of the dead child, are exceedingly dangerous; and as it is next to impossible, to perform such an operation without considerable injury to the uterus, it generally proved fatal. Great danger was apprehended from the laceration of the uterus; and experience has confirmed, in all ages, that wounds, or ulcers in the uterus, are most com- monly mortal. The directing the placenta to be delivered immediately after the child, is an excellent and successful method; for its re- tention has frequently proved destructive. Notwithstanding all authors, both ancient and modern, have vehemently remon- strated against leaving the after burden, though they have all united, as with one voice, and confirmed its dangerous tei dency, by the experience of every age ; yet some eminent, and highly distinguished practitioners, in this metropolis, formed a pro- ject of leaving it after the delivery of the child ; and this has proved injurious to many women. Melancholy were the in- stances of females, expiring by putrid maglignant fevers, diarrhea’s, deliriums, and even raving madness: thus, were af- fectionate mothers torn from their helpless offspring: thus were infants deprived of the tender mother’s care; such were the direful consequences of altering an ancient and successful practice, on mere conjectures, and introducing one fatal to the community. This memorable example should induce physicians, to be cautious how they engage in ill concerted, and dan- gerous novelties; novelties, productive of irreparable injuries. For, what atonement can be made, when either through prejudice, inconsiderateness, or ignorance, a human victim is sacrificed at the shrine of error ? Cej On the subject of midwifery little more can be said, except that many ancient practices to be found in the works of Hippocrates, are still retained by the women in most parts of the world ; such as provokingsneezing, to expel the secundines; not cutting the funis, till the child breaths, after a difficult labour. The observation of an inflamed uterus, producing a tenesmus, and strangury, and the fatal catastrophe of patients in such dangerous distempers, have been acknowledged exact by all succeeding writers. The remarks on the diseases of children arc nearly true, and their description discovers a long diligent, and unwearied ap- plication; when the Pythagorean prejudices, of seven months, and seven yelars, being allotted for the changes of diseases are excepted. ON (e) Ihe method was recommended by the late Doctor Ilervey, in a pamphlet, dedicated to that excellent anatomist. Doctor William Hunter, phy- sician extraordinary to the queen, who patronized the autnur, and recommended the doctrine of leaving the after burden, in his public lectures to his students ; by which means the practice became universal, and some women lost their lives. The method, however, is not neglected, or universally condemned. A few of the principal advocates, whom pride will not permit to acknowledge an error, persist in the practice. While 1 practiced midwifery, I always attempted the delivery of the placenta immediately, and succeeded, except where the adhesion was very firm, in which case, I waited until it could be separated without danger: for 1 never used violence.