Ixix HISTORY OF MEDICINE. redaction ought not to be attempted, except with a view to hinder the surgeon from being branded with want of skill, from the multitude. A luxated finger, when not attended with • a w’ound, is cured in fourteen days. Great danger is to be expected, rf the bones of the cubit be luxated with a wound, about the curpus, so as to stick out of the wound, and if con- vulsions should succeed the reduction of the luxation, the reduced part ought to be immediately forced out of its cavity, and bathed with some proper liquor, (a) In order to ascertain, and to satisfy ourselves when a luxation is reduced properly, we should compare the aftected member with its corresponding sound one, and not by looking at the articulation of anotlier person; since the joints of some ai'e more prominent than those of others; (b) for many persons, whether through intense pain, or any other cause, have their joints of a different figure from those of sound persons, though they be not really luxated. OF THE LUXATION OF THE HUMERU.S. I HIPPOCRATES describes a method of reducing the humerus, in the following manner: (c) A piece of wood, of a cubit long, or somewhat shorter, like the handle of a spade, must be bound on both sides with a cord, i and hanged up; (d) but the patient, placed upon somebigh stool, must so lean upon it with his hand, that the handle may ■ be so placed under the axilla, that he can hardly sit down, but may remain almost hanged up. Then a firm bolster, or many, being laid under and above it, at that height which may answer to the arm, placed at a right angle, it were better lo hang by a broad and soft strap of leather, ,or a broad band tied about it, some heavy weight that may gently stretch it; or else some other strong man may forcibly draw the arm downwards, at the binding of the elbow. But the physician, standing, and placing one foot on a higher place, must attempt the cure, and, with the palms of his hands, set the bone, whidi indeed will be easily done ; for this way of extending is commendable, if the artist use it properly. The use of the ambe is so weli known, that it would be superfluous here to describe it. They whose shoulders often slip out, may, for the most part, reduce it themselves; for, thrusting under the armpits, the knuckles of the fingers of the other hand, they thrust the joint upwards, and they draw the bunched part of the arm to : the breast. I Those who have the humerus reduced, without any inflammation of the surrounding parts, can immediately use their arm, I without any pain, and think no future caution is necessary for them. (e) But it is the duty r>f the physician to put them ; on their guard; since, in this case, the member is, again, more easily luxated llian where there is an inflammation. If the extension be properly made, the head of the bone is so raised, as to correspond to its natural cavity; and when it j is thus raised, any impulse, or direction, is sufficient to convey it into that cavity; (f) but, if the extension be defective, the reduction will be proportionably more difficult. The cure of this luxation, must be l>y a cerate, compresses, and the appli- I cation of bandages, (g) Soft wool, wrapped up, must also be put under the axilla, in order to fill up its cavity, and { support the joint. For, by this means, the head of the os humeri will be hindered from slipping from its cavity, into that of the axilla. I The luxation sometimes arises from the relaxation of the ligaments; and Hippocrates had recourse, in this case, to the actual cautery. As he saw many disabled by such luxations of the humerus, and knew of none who. had a propiec method of curing them. The whole plan of cure consists in cauterizing the skin and membrana adiposa, iaithat part to which the head of the bone slipped ; that by means of the cicatrices of the healed ulcers, the integuments may be so corrugated, and hardened, as not to be easily extended afterwards; by which means, the head of the bone will be kept Rom slipping that waj\ iThe lax skin (after elevating the arm) and membrana adiposa, is to be so raised with the fingers, that the integuments may *be separated as much as possible, from the glands, nerves, and large blood vessels: then a hot iron, not too thick, or laige, jbut oblong, is to be passed through the skin, thus raised, as quickly as possible; for which purpose, the iron is to be so hot as |to appear pellucid. Whilst the skin is yet elevated, a small spatula is to be passed through the perforation, and the skin to be let go. Then, in the middle, between the two perforations, a small red-hot iron is to be passed through the integuments, |till it reach the subjacent spatula; by this means, three different parts may be cauterized, without any danger of injuring the t parts ■ (a) De articulis. jl<i) Reduction of the humerus. Compress and bandage. I i (6) To discover when a limb is properly reduced. (c) De fractur. Sect. VI. (e) Cautiou, (fj De articulis.