HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ir ' To wBicirHippocrates returned this answer, / • In the art of physic, those things which happen successful, for tlie most part arc not commended by men, fsj but they commonly ascribe it to the gods, if any thing happen amiss, so that the patient dies; they then let the gods alone, and accuse the physician. And indeed, I perceive, that I receive more blame, than credit, by my art. For though now very old, I have not yet arrived at the height of medicine; neither did -Esculapius himself, who invented it, as appears in that he in many in- stances, dissents from those who have written on the subject. Your letter to us condemns the administration of hellebor'e. I was, indeed, Democritus, sent for to cure a madman ; neither at that time could I guess in what Condition you were ; but when 1 had conversed with you, I discovered you to be far removed from madness, and worthy of all respect. I acknowledged you to be Uie most excelleixt interpreter of nature, and the world, and judged those who sent for me to be mad, and to have occasion for physic. But since this accident hath created an acquaintance between us, you will not do amiss in writing of- tener, and in communicating your works tq me. 1 have sent you a treatise concerning hellebore. Farewell. From the foregoing epistles, Cornelius Celsus, (tj concluded that Hippocrates was a disciple to Democritus ; but some of the modern critics have doubted their authenticity, as likewise those mentioned in the third book. As a disputation on this subject would leave the case undetermined,’ it is submitted to every learned reader to form his own judgment on the matter. The ingenuous and modest confession, however, that he was not perfect in the art, though arrived at a great age, may be no useless lesson to suppress the assumed arrogance of some physicians, who, without any, or but little application, consider themselves qualified to practice the art, without ever reflecting on its uncertainly, or their own insufficiency. The practice in case of madness was similar, in general, to the present mode; as it consisted in bleeding, purging, and a low diet. The opinion of Hippocrates concerning the cause of the epilepsy, as arising from an unequal distribution of the blood, w'hcn we add the modern opinions concerning the nerves, is not very improbable. The ancient method of treating the epilepsy, is similar to the modern, as bleeding, foetid substances, and cauteries. The iliac passion, is described tolerably just, and the methods of cure very rational. In such desperate disorders, where often a mortification suddenly succeeds the inflammation, a physician cannot be called loo soon; and the methods recom- mended by Hippocrates, may be not only necessary, but all other which art can suggest; and above all things, plentiful bleed- ings in the beginning, if the patient can bear it, should never be omitted. In cancers the opinions were very just, and have been confirmed by the testimony of every age ; for all irritating practice whatever, is highly injurious, and cannot be too much discouraged. See my Treatise on Cancers. The methods pursued in disorders of the urinary passages, and the apprehensions from the dangerous consequences suc- ceeding an inflammed bladder are sensible. But the notions in some respects concerning the gout, seem rather superstitious ; as its never happening to eunuchs, or to women, unless from a suppression of the menses; for experience proves this not to be true. The methods of treating the gout, were similar to the present practice ; and the moderns know as little how to cure it, not- withstanding the many treatises on the subject, as the ancients. ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN, WITH THE MIDWIFERY QF HIPPOCRATES.^ HIPPOCRATES, is no less accurate in his observations on the diseases of women, than all the other branches of medicine^ In his Treatise De Virgin, is asserted, that young women at the age of puberty, are afflicted with a species of delirium, in which they think they see certain daemons, about the first appearance of the menses; though free from such disorders before, fur after the blood is accumulated in the uterus, as if it was ready to be discharged, if the mouth of the uterus be not open, and (s) £pistol Hippoc. coi. ((] It is supposed that Celtos lived about three bundi ed and fifty yean after Bippocratc».