f ) SYMPTOMATOLOGY, on DOCTRINE OF THE SYMPTO:\IS OF DISEASES. A symptom is the effect orphacnomenon of a disease. Every symptom, therefore, is an injury of the actions of our body, or of the visible (Qualities, in any part. Symptoms are divided, with respect to their origin, into, 1. Symptoms of a disease from the disease itself. 2. Symptoms of the cause of a disease, from the cause of the disease being present. 3. Symptoms of other symptoms, from sympathy. 4. Epigenomenovs symptoms, which arise from a new disease coming on. Symptoms are again divided from the time of appcarrance, into, 1. Preceding, which precede a disease. 2. Concomitant, which accompany it. 3. Subsequent, which follow when the disease has ter- minated. Symptoms are also distinguished into external, which consist of mischief done to any visible quality ; and Internal, which are constituted by an injury done to any action of an internal part. Finally every disease has, 1. Proper symptoms, which are peculiar to the disease, they are also called characteristic and pathog- nomic. 2. Common symptoms, which are common to many diseases, 3. Dangerous symptoms, which cause hazard of the life, 4. Milder symptoms, which do not endanger life. EXTERNAt SYMPTOMS. The external symptoms of diseases arise from injury done to the visible qualities under this head, we may range almost all external diseases, which may be symptoms of another internal disease. Pain. An unpleasant sensation in a particular part, is a symptom of inflammation, cancer, rheumatic tu- mour, spina ventosa, of a wound whilst it is being inflicted, of injury done to a nerve, or of an ulcer. Anodynia, or Insensibility. The absence of feeling in a part, which in a natural state would give pain, constitutes symptoms of mortification, compression, or division of a nerve, or a ligature made on it. Ucat. A sensation of heat in a particular part, is a symp- tom of inflammation and injury done to a nerve. Cold. The sensation of cold in a part is a symptom of sphacelus. Morbid colour. A preternatural colour is various, when red, or livid, it is a symptom of ecchymosis, aneurism, piles, gangrene, and sphacelus. BlacJcncss in necrosis, redness in inflammation, paleness in oedema, Fcctor. This is a symptom of a cancerous, putrid, or carious ulcer, gangrene, under this head may be considered the foetor from a carious tooth, tartar, or scurvy in the mouth, carbuncle on the tongue, foctor of the ears, from an ulcer; of the nose, from an ulcer there, of the genitals from incontinence of the urine and fjcces. Itching. A sensation exciting a person to scratch, is a symptom of a scabious acrimony of ulcers, and some - times of depositions under the cuticle of fractures, after having been tied up for a long time. Hardiness. A hard consistence is a symptom of schirrus and nodes, a part is tense over inflammatory tumours, and hard over an exostosis. Softness. A soft consistence, is a symptom of meliceris, a doughy one is observed in oedema and gangrene, but clastic in'serous tumours and enterocele, a fluctiating one is felt in an abcess. Sicclling. A swelling is a symptom of all tumours, indolent, or suppurating. Withering or wasting, is a symptom of violence done to aa artery, or principal nerve of any part, spina ventosa, or luxations, when not reduced. Jnjiammation. This is a symptom of various diseases, inter- nal and external, wounds, ulcers, fractures, luxations, and contusions. Emphysema. This is a symptom of wounds, mortification, fracture of the ribs, and the bite of a viper. Erythema is a symptom of old ulcers, acrimonious scorbutic habit, affection of the pericranium and of a caries. Ophthalmia is a symptom of most diseases of the eyes, violence done to the head, redness of the eyes coming on seven or eight times a day, when the brain is hurt denotes a determination of blood to the head, suppuration of the brain and death, redness of tlie eyes in cancer in- forms us that the cancerous virus is dispersed all over the body. Gangrene is a symptom of much injury having been done to the nerves, of fracture when the bone is much crushed, of luxation of the vertebras, of the bite of an empoisoned viper, of a principal artery or nerve being cut off, it happens also in some wounds, ulcers, tumours, and herniae. Suppuration, is a symptom of contused wounds, ulcers, and some tumours, as phlegmon, boils,&c. Gravity, when too considerable, is a symptom of indurated and inflammatory tumours. Lightness, when too considerable, is a symptom of em- physema. Dryness is a symptom of the dry ophthalmia, and loss of tone in the coats and mouths of exhalent arteries. Moisture, is a symptom of the moist ophthalmia, and laxity - of expalcnts in their openings. Pulsation is a symptom of inflammation going into sup- puration,