( 104 } ( PLATE Liy. The Female Farts of Generation, Figure I. A. Inferior part of the abdomen, and mons veneris. B. B. Labia •pudenda seperated. C. Clitoris, &nd prcepttce. . ■ F. Fossa magna, or os externum. G. Meatus urinarius, ^ H. PerincEum. I. Anus, K. The part covering the extremity of the os coccygis. L. The parts covering the tuberosity of the os ischium. Figure II. 3ECTI01T OF THE UTERUS, AXD OF THE VAGINA OF A CHILD OF A FEW WEEKS OLD. A. Uterus opens through the posterior facies. B. Oxaria, and Fallopian tubes. C. Vagina^ opening anteriorly. r. Its interior, nervous, rugous membrane. A. Its exterior, fibrous texture. D. Small circle of the dissected hymen. E. Crenated,, and rough orifice of the uterus. F. Septum of the uterus, composed of three juga. G. Anterior column of the cervex uteri. H. Posterior, I. Small valves of the cervex uteri. K. Valvular part of the vagina, nearest to the uterus. L. The anterior, and larger column of the vagina. M. Posterior, and less column. N. Intermediate caruncula. O. The nearest part of the hymen, composed of circular valves. The mons xeneris is a fatty eminence, covered with hairy skin, lying on the pubiis. Labia majora are two fatty eminences, beginning under the mons veneris, covering the labia minora, and running by the oidesof the orifice of the vagina to theperinamm, and there unite together by means of a transverse cutaneous fold, called Frenulum Labiorum. Labia minora, also called Nympftce, are two cutaneous folds like the gills of a cock, situated at the sides of the ori- fice of the vagina. Clitoris is a glandiform body, which adheres under the ante- rior commissure of the labia majora. Jlymcn is-'a membrane, mostly semilunar, which adlicrcs to -the orifice of the vagina in virgins. Va<nna uterina is a membranous tube, which begins within the labia minora, then ascends into the cavity of the pelvis, between the ossa pubis, and intestinum rectum to the neck of the uterus. The vagina consists of three membranes. The external is cellular from the tela cellulosa. The middle muscular, which consists of fleshy fibres. The internal, called Rugous. These rugx are transverse.. Urethra is a membranous canal, larger than the urethra in men, and descending from the neck ol the bladder within the ossa pubis, opens by its orifice under the clitoris, within the organ of the nymphac. Uterus, or womb, is that spongious which is situ- ated in the cavity of the pelvis above the vagina, be- tween the urinary bladder, and intestinum rectum. Its is like a compressed jiear, hence Its division into bottom, winch is the highest and broadest part, neck, which is the lowest part, narrowed to a point, and into the orijicium uterinum, which is the transverse aperture in the neck of the uterus, that projects into the vagina. Cavity of the uterus is small in a virgin, scarcely the size of an excorticated almond, with three cpcrffoci’. Two are at the sides of the uterus, called the Internal Orifices of the fallopian tubes. The third aperture is below, viz. the orijiciimi uterinum. The broad ligaments of the uterus originate from the duplica- • ture of the peritoneum, which gives the external membrane to the uterus. They are extended from the sides of the uterus to the ossa ilia; they sustain the uterus, tubac, and ovaria. The round ligaments of the uterus, arise from the sides of the | uterus, near its fundus, go to the inguinal ring, and j there terminate in fat, Tubcefallopiance, are two membranous canals, which arise from the bottom of the uterus laterally, and run to- [ wards the ovaria, in the superior margin of the broad j ligament. The ovaria are two smooth bodies, situated in the cavity of ' the pelvis, at the siiies of the uterus. Their exterior i surface is fibrous, but their internal vesicular, at least, [| in virgins. These vesicular are called Ovula Mulidro, i and disappear in the aged. The glands of the genitals are; 1. Glandulce mucosie vaginales, which are situated under the rugous tunic of the vagina. 2. Glanduke odorifene of the labia, and clitoris. 3. Glandulce niucipane urethra:, whicli are found under its internal membrane. The use of the parts of generation is for copulation. conception, nourishment of the fetus, parturition, mcnstniaiion. In the thirty-fourth Plate, the urine bladder, utcras, and rectum, .arc soon laterally, and shew- the exact space they fill up in the pelvis. This view ought to be well recolleclcd in the 1%-acticc of Midwifery, and in the treatment of many feiniilc con.(lie .11-, to account for causes, symptoms, dec. in various diseases. Patience in hard labours cannot be too strongly incuicivicd ; for instruments are rarely, very rarely ncccSiary, and, when used, generally -lacerafe the parts, so as to render future life truly miserable! • ' ■