Ixxix HISTORY OF MEDICINE I tion, for of all these things he was extremely ignorant. Aristotle, however, docs not so much deserve censure for not under- standing these tilings, but for his vanity and presumption, in pretending to communicate a knowledge to others, of what he himself was totally ignorant; and meddling with sciences, in which he was quite unacquainted. But soon after the death of Aristotle, that great conquerer, Alexander, of Macedon, whose inordinate ambition, and successful wars, rendered him mas- ter of the world, expiring, ended his restless career soon after his triumphant entry into Babylon. This produced a great re- volution in the Greek empire, which before was under the denomination of that aspiring commander. The whole of his con- quests were soon divided, after his death, into four kingdoms; Egypt, Syria, Macedonia, Thrace, and Bithynia. (d) The whole manner of the Greeks had been changing from a love of liberty, and the most honourable sentiments, to a state of corruption, and dependance; for a considerable time before Philip formed his plan for the subjection of all Greece. These vices which have ever been the destruction of every state, increased proportionably as the Greeks became rich and luxurious, I their liberal sentiments, their love of liberty, which so eminently distinguished them above all other nations, gradually dc- ' generated into the most extravagant prostitution, and baseness; and, Irom the time of Alexander, till their total destruction, by the Romans, we read of nothing but shocking murders, mutual distrusts, rapine, and every species of cruelty, that can dis- grace human nature. During such scenes it was not probable that sciences flourished; and accordingly we have little re- maining of the learning of those ages. There is, seemingly, a limitation to human pursuits ; and there are periods in history, I in which the different branches of learning are iu their highest perfection : from w hich time, succeeds a gradual decline. The I highest perfection of the Greek literature, was just before, and during the life of Alexander. A profusion of wealth succeed- ing a great extent of territory, men became idle, having no incentive to action ; the rich employed their whole time in the j invention of new modes of indulgence, and surfit themselves in voluptuousness and dissipation. This has a sensible effect on i learning, for men who should be otherwise deeply learned, in whatever they profess, discover a shorter way to wealth and honour, than by laborious study ; they substitute the appearance for the reality ; and mankind reduced by intemperance and i luxury, to a state of enervation, do not so much as suspect the impostor, and, are totally incapable of distinguishing real I merit, from its shadow. These were the principal causes of the decline of learning, and the destruction of the Greek empire. ' The discoveries that were made by Herophilus, and Erasistratus, were in the beginning of the decline of the Greek em- ; pile. They were the first, and the only physicians, w'ho had liberty to dissect human bodies; and the effects of their in- dustry are very evident, from what has been already transcribed from Galen. But, as in the ensuing part of this performance, there will be occasion to mention the improvements of these anatomists, and the manner in which the art of physic, was gra- dually transferred by the Greeks to the Romans; v.e decline for the present enlarging on these subjects. In the preceding books, the happy effectsarising from the industry of the immortal Hippocrates, have been amply con- ‘ sidered, and may justly excite our admiration ; for the art of medicine, which before his time, abounded in error, and super- stition, was reduced, by his sagacity alone, into a regular form and order. Indeed, to such a degree of perfection was it raised, that little more was necessary, than an accurate skill in anatomy, and a few effectual remedies to render it complete. In such a state did this ancient, leave the science ; and it might have been naturally expected, that his immediate successors, would have finished what was so wisely begun, and supplied his defects. But it seems a certain fatality has ever attended the i medical art; for, at dift'erent periods, when every prospect must have raised the highest expectations of perfecting it, some un- foreseen event, or some aspiring and subtle genius has appeared, who has shocked its very found^ion, by diverting the atten- ition to useless studies, and thereby frustrated all hopes of effecting so desirable a purpose. It was by observation and experi- lence alone, that our ancient author, arrived to such an uncommon degree of skill in the salutary art. But after his death, experience, and patient observation, were relinquished, and subtleties, and deep misterious reasonings on inexplicable things were introduced. Physicians, instead of ardently engaging in the cure of diseases, entered into endless disputes about pre- eminence ; conjectures were multiplied, and truth forsaken, wranglings, and dischord succeeded, those mild diffusions of universal benevolence, which so strongly marked the character of the great father of medicine. The dawnings of science began to break forth during the life of our author; and soon after his decease an uncommon number of men, called philo- sophers, appeared. It would be tedious here, even to mention the names of the different sects. It appears, that it was suf- ficient, in that age, to have some singular humour or manners; to look or dress grave; and pretend to a new discovered road to (d) About three hundred years before Christ.