( ^97 ) -puration, but chiefly of a true aneurism, where the great arteries are situated. Loss of pulse. Loss of pulse in any member, a symptom of sphacelus, of an artery divided, compressed, or tied, as after an operation for the aneurism. f4 cracking noise in a joint, is a symptom of the scurvy, dis- tortion of the hand, foot, or it is a symptom of emphysema. Haemorrhage from the nostrils, is a symptom of the nose be- ing bruised, the brain disturbed, or of a polypus forced away, if through the trachea, or oesophagus, or stomach, &c. denote the rupture of an artery or vein. Haemorrhage, is a symptom of a wound, ulcer, scorbutic, or putrid, and of a cancer w'hcn open. Haemorrhage from the ears, is a symptom of the brain being disturbed. Bleeding of the gums, is a symptom of the scurvy in them. /(discharge of lymph, is a symptom of a wounded lymphatic, or of a tumour of them. A discharge of serum, is a symptom of recent wounds, and some fungous ulcers, relaxed exhalents, &c. A discharge of pus, or ichor, is a symptom of ulcers and wounds ; purulent pus, is a symptom of ozenae and scrophula; a discharge from the ear, is a symptom of an ulcer in it, and of contusion of the head. An effusion of synovia, is a symptom of a wound or ulcer pe- netrating into the cavity of a joint. Proctorrhcea, is a symptom of an internal fistula, ani, and of the piles. A contraction of the muscles and ligaments, is a symptom of ' fractures, wounds, and tumours of the joints, and of irregular nervous influence, or its deficiency. Atonia, or great laxity of the muscles and ligaments, is a symptom of distortion, and sometimes of a reduced luxation, of defect in the nervous powers, acting on muscles, debility, &c. ON INTEKNAL SYMPTOMS. Jnternal symptoms are affections of the vital, animal, or natural actions. ^ SYMPTOMS OF THE VITAL ACTIONS. These are affections of the pulse, motion of the heart, and respiration. SYMPTOMS OF THE PULSE. A small, slow, and intermittent pulse, is a symptom of dis- eased organization of the heart, large vessels, hy- «lrops, pericardii, aneurism, of internal, or external hsemorrhage, of gangrene, or it precedes death. A quick and strong pulse is a symptom of fever and in- flammations, hence febrile and inflammatory symp- toms ; but a quick and more feeble pulse, putrid fe- vers from contagion, &c. nervous fever, and various diseases arising from debilitating causes. FEBRILE ST.MPTOMS. 1. An inflammatory fever is a symptom which either precedes, accompanies, or succeeds inflammatory tumours, finally, under the name of a suppurating, or wound fever, it is a symptom of inflammation, wounds, con- tusions, and complicated fractures, with inflam- mation. 2. Putrid fever, proceeds from the absorption of putrid con- tagion, cither by respiration, or from a gangrenous, or putrid wouiyd, and is a symptom of mortification, a putrid or carious ulcer; wounded persons, and those who have ulcers, are more subject to it in the un- wholesome air of an hospital, than in any other place, except from animal putrefaction. 3. Bilious fever, either in the internal canal, or diffused through the whole body, as in the yellow West India fevers, arises from putrid bile, hence, it frequently accompanies the erysipelas of wounded persons, and those who have ulcers, or hepatitis. 4. Slow fever, which gradually weakens the body, is a symp- tom of diseased viscera, an abcess lying concealed, of a large wound, or ulcer, discharging much pus, it it also a symptom of a cancerous ulcer and wounded lymphatic. An intermittent fever coming on periodically, daily, every second or third day, is not a symptom of an external disease, but since wounded persons are more easily affected than healthy ones by improper diet, bringing on an intermittent fever, it is then an epigomenoys symptom of an external disease. INFLAMMATORY SYMPTOMS. 1. Phrenitis, an inflammation of the membranes of the brain, arising from inflammatory fever and violent delirium, is a symptom of the head being bruised or wounded, sometimes of violent inflammation of the ear, and comes on from the tooth ach and a whitlow. 2. Cephalitis, or inflammation of the brain, is a symptom of the brain being contused, wounded, or compressed by the cranium. 3« Cynanche, or inflammation of the pharynx, or larynx, is sometimes brought on by extraneous bodies being contained in those cavities for some time. 4. Pleuritis, is a symptom of inflammation of the intercostal muscles, and pleurae which usually follows cold, frac- tures and contusions of the ribs and sternum. 5. Peripneumony, or an inflammation of the lungs, very fre- quently arise from wounds of this viscus, or fractures of the ribs, cynanche sometimes brings an inflammation of the lungs, likewise sudden cold, 6cc. 6. Diaphragmatisis, or inflammation of the diaphragm is occasioned by wounds and contusions of it. 7. Corditis, or inflammation of the heart is a symptom of superficial wounds, or injuries done to it. S. Gastritis, or inflammation of the stomach, is a symptom of a wound or contusion in it, of incarcerated gastrocele, or of sharp substances swallowed. 9. Enteritis, £ e «