( i85 ) I degenerations which take place in the primac viae, or I in the Immours themselves ; and in the prix vi.e arc called saburr®, but in the humours cacochyni® or I cachexi®, to which we may refer. I 1, Rancidity, or the degeneration of oil into an acrid hu- mour, such as is perceived in rancid butter. ! 2. Putrescence, or the degeneration of blood, and gelatinous j humours into a thin fatid humour, such as is observed i in the most malignant and yellow fevers, and in a dead person. 3. Purulcscencc, or the degeneration of gelatinous humour into pus, or a soft whitesh humour, such as is found in wounds, but this is divided, 1. Into good pus, which has a soft taste, or smell, is of the consistence of cream, of a straw colour, and heavier than water, it burns in a flame, and is the consequence of inflammation of a wound or ulcer. 2. Into bad pus, which is thin fetid, acrid and greenish, blackish, or brownish ; this pus is also called sanies or ichor. 3. Into spurious pus, which is a yellow mucus, arising with- out preceding inflammation, or wound ; and does not flame in burning; this pus like mucus, maybe often observed in coryza, gonorrhoea, fistula lachrymalis, and fluor albus. Pyogenia, or the generation of pus is yet obscure, the gela- tinous part of the scrum, in a wound, ulcer, or in- flammatory tumour transuding through the vessels mixed with the oil of the adipose membrane, seems to constitute pus. Spurious pus is without oil, therefore it does not burn. 4. An inflammatory crust is some of the gelatinous part of the blood, or serum degenerated into a white tenacious humour, which usually covers the surface of blood after bleeding in inflammatory diseases. 5. Concrescence, is a degeneration of schirrous matter, into a specific acrimony, such as is observed in cancer. 6. Acrescentia, is a peculiar degeneration of the bile, which greatly resembles rancidity. 7. Atra bilis, which is observed in melancholy people and maniacs. 8. The acridity of perspirable matter arises from retention. 9. The acridity of the urine arises from its long retention in the bladder. 10. Acridity of the fxces is occasioned by their long reten- tion in the intestines, with flatus, &c. 11. The acridity of ulcers, which is absorbed from their sur- face, is communicated to the humours. 52. The saburra of the prim® vi®, is formed by various de- generations, as acid, putrid, bilious, rancid, glutinous, saline, crude, aromatic, austere, earthly, flatulent, poisonous, verminous. 13. The degeneration of liquids into a substance, like honey, pulp, hard fat, cartilage, bone, or earth. DISEASES OF MIXTURE IN THE FLUIDS. These are improper combinations of the humours, as to their constituent principles, to which we may'rcfer the fol • lowing diathrosis and discrasi® of the humours. 1. Aquosity, from a superabundance of water, as in the dropsy. 2. Olcosity, from too much oil, as in fatness. 3. Chylosity, if from milk as in women. 4. Cruority, from red globules of blood, in a sanguine habit. 5. Glutinosity, from gluten in a pituitous one. 6. Gelatinosity, from jolly, as in infants. 7. Earthiness, if from too much earth, as in old people, the gout)^ and calculous, abounding with calcareous ' particles. S. Acridity, if any acrid principle supera bound in the hu- mours, sec acrimony. ' DISEASES FROM CHANGE OF PLACE. The passing of humours from their own into other vessels, is called change of place, as, those vessels, which arc named serous, becoming distended so as to carry red blood, which may be observed in inflammations, and erythema. DISEASES FROM RETENTION OF HUMOURS. A continuance in the body of a humour, which ought to be excreted, is called retention, as retention of perspira- tion, the urine, feces of the intestines, milk, mens- truation, lochia, discharge necessary for the piles, or of any other morbid matter. DISEASES FROM THE EXCRETION OF HUMOURS. The passage of a humour out of the body, is called excre- tion, as the excretion of blood from a wound, of too much pus from an ulcer, of scrum or lymph from an ulcer or tumour of a lymphatic vessel. , DISEASES FROM THE SECRETION OF HUMOURS. A morbid secretion is an effusion, or extravasation of a sanious humour from the vessels into the cells of th« cellular membrane, or into the great cavities of the body, as extravasation of blood in ecchymosis, of water in the dropsy, of air in emphysema, and of milk in lacteal tumours. Metastasis is a secretion, mutation, or translation, of a mor- bid humour into some particular part, under which arc comprehended all metastatical and critical tu- rnouts. Proofs, however, of metastasis are some- times easier to assert than demonstrate: therefore much caution and experience are necessary, before determination, as in gout, rheumatism, fevers, &c. DISEASES EROM THE FLUIDS. The motion of fluids may become unnatural by e.xcess or defect. Too quick a motion all over the body, is called excess in motion. Too quick a motion in a particular part, is called congestion of humours. A defect of motion in any part, is called retardation, or stagnation of humours. Bb b Tiicro