t HISTORY OF MEDICINE possible to understand the functions of those parts. These anatomical demonstrations shew the effects of disease, its situation, and often elucidate the causes of disease and death ; hence arises the extreme utility of anatomy, in physiology, and pathology. Who would have believed that the cesophagus could have been ruptured by vomiting, and the food thrown into the cavity of the thorax, had it'not been for anatomy ? Who would have expected a rupture of the heart or its auricles, unless such appearance had been found in anatomical researches ? All medicine is vain without the knowledge of dissections poif mortem, (k) Who would have considered it possible that the spleen, coutd have descended into the pelvis, the stomach burst by fermen- tation of food, that a foetus could be formed in the ovarium, and even be nourished in the abdomen, to the full time of ges*- tation, and other facts of the same kind, if the attentive investigation of anatomists had hot demonstrated these things ? How much are we indebted to Ruysek, for proving, by his injections, that many parts of the body, considered by the ancients destitute of vessels, are extremely vascular ? Who would have known any thing of the lacteals, lymphatics, their course and structure, the irritability of the heart and muscles, and the peristaltic motion of the ihtestines, if anatomy had been neg- kcfed ? Anatomical experience is so certain that no person can be easily deceived, if an experiment be made with necessary caution; and although contradictory circumstances are sometimes found in authors, we Conclude that all of them did not attend to the same particulars and correctness ; or being biassed by prejudice, receive only what is consonant to their own doctrines, or even pervert the fair result; hence arise so many dissentions and controversies, which are easily settled by con- sidering the disposition of parts, and consulting the cider of nature ; for every experiment is decisive in itself, yet the reason- ing oh it ihay be fallacious. Thus, when the ancients found the arteries of a dead human body empty, they believed that air only had been contained in them. The experiment was not deceptive, but the reasoning, and they could have easily con- vinced themselves of the truth, had they opened the arteries of living animals, and sten the blood jetting out with impetus, fend thence concluded, that those vtessels in an healthy state were not filled with air, but blood ; the utmost caution, therefore, is necessary in drawing conclusions from experiment. BOTANY. Yflrts science, little knowh to the ancients, has been so much advanced irt biiV tiYne, by Ae Unanimous labour bf many cclc- bra'ted men, that all plants calfibe distinguished by certain and infallible marks, imprinted oft them by nature. So long as the botanist confine himself to those distinguishable characteristics, and class every plant, possessing similar appearances, under the same genus, he will be right, and free from error; but if he transgress those bounds, and indulge his fancy, by expecting that herbs of similar external form, arc endued with tlie same medical qualities, he will be most egrogiously deceived, since poi- sonous and harmless plants, and those of very opposite properties, are ranged under the same class. CHEMISTRY. CHEMICAL experiments have rendered great assistance to medieme, for by these means, not only the latent powers bf different bodies, and other properties not obvious to the senses, have been brought to light; but the most efficacious medicines have been invented, which were unknown to the ancients, and pharmacy in general, very much augmented. We are chiefly indebted to chemistry for having discovered that the most subtle poisons, and inactive or salutary bodies, arc produced according to various admixtures of principles. No physician, therefore, can be ignorant of chemistry without committing the most dangerous errors in his prescriptions, for mistakes easily happen if we depart from experience, and give loose to the effusions of fancy. It should not be attributed as a fault to chemistry, but to the chemists; that many hypotheses and useless observations have been introduced into medicine. MECHANICS AND NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. THESE have very m^ich conduced to the increase of medicine, nor can a physician be destitute of such information, which are certain, and Universally admitted truths. The (k) Tor my own part. I have embraced every opportunity through life, to investigate the real chuses, aVid effofcts of diseases by these means, and hate collected hundreds of facts; great numbers of which may be seen, written in Latin, in the rational practice, with much inductive reasoning, &C. &C* which certainly is beyond all idle speculation, &c.