INTRODUCTION, &c. xvi their ganglions, connexions, plexuses, &c. See. of all the principal parts of the human body, are particularly interesting to every physician who would wish to account for the various symptoms of diseases, either directly of parts, or indirectly by sympathy. In these minute investigations many hundreds of references in the reference plates lead the studious pupil gradatim to a profound know- ledge of the minutest causes of all different human sensations and signs of. diseases, arranged and exhibited in such a manner as to leave, it is hoped, a durable jmpression on the mind, ready on all occasions to be usefully applied to medical practice. In short, the Schola Medicine is intended to answer the most ample purposes of instruction; to render most other books unnecessary, as far as facts and just reasoning extend; and, to early fortify the juvenile mind against those frothy conjectu^ effusions, w-hich too often, pro tempore^ injure the Pceonian art. It must be submitted to the discernment of the learned and candid, to determine on its probable utility, by considering the labour of the arrangement and execution, and by comparing the practical use of the Schola Medicince with any other single production extant. The methodising of the work, its gradual execution, the slow progress of the drawings and engravings, with which the letter-press was frequently obliged to keep pace, have consumed a period of above twenty-five years, as far as the author’s other writings, and an extensive medical practice, -would permit. It was written in Latin, that it might become more universally useful to all nations. The stile, it is hoped, is perspicuous, concise, and intelligible; those w'ho have neglected their Latin, may, perhaps, find that performance useful in regaining, w'hat may, in some measure, have been lost, and the junior students, it is hoped, will be incited to pursue their studies in the learned languages, which -will amply reward their labours, and give additional lustre to that profession, in which they should attempt excellence as members. It is the duty of every physician to leave the art better than he found it, by dedicating to study the idle hours consumed in amusement: for dissipation and Bacchanalian excesses are ahvays inimical to serious reflection.* The necessity and utility of this work, it is presumed, will be acknowdedged, when it be con- sidered, that no one book comprehending anatomical plates, with references to each in one page of letter-press, and a complete physiology and pathology exhibited at one view, by columns that run parallel, has ever yet been published. The' labour of consulting various writings separately would require such a collection, that the expence would be enormous, and the advantages to pupils doubtful, through the great errors in their arrangement. Many writers of former works have rather wished to appear splendid than useful, and much time has been lost in endless repetitions of flying from copper-plate Xo the references; irom Xhe. references to the copper-plate: the tediousness of which mode of conveying instruction is often considered by students so prolix or difficult, that igno- rance is preferred, frequently, to science, when obtained only by such laborious means. All these diffiulties are now obviated. In the present performance, all that is contained in each plate is compressed into one concise page of letter-press opposite, by being printed in a small type, cast expressly for the purpose, and each page is divided into columns, in such a manner, as not only to give * Some of the remaining copies of the Latin edition may he had without the plates, by those who purchase the English editiefn, at a moderate cxpcncc,-