C 17 ) PLATE XV. -Fourth Series of Muscles in the anterior Fart of tlit Bod^, Name and origin. IN THE HEAD AND NECK. Insertion. LevatorpalpebrcE snperiuris; in the bottom of the orbit. Into the cartilage of the tarsus Obliqims superior, vel trochlcaris; nearest to the optic foramen. Action, Raises the palpebra. Passes the trochlea, and is iin- Gyrates the bulb, ami draws it planted into the bulb of the eye inwardly, near the rectus cxtci'nus. Attollens rectus oculi, vel superbus; from the superior Into the tunica sclerotica. Moves the bulb of the eye up- wards. Into the external canthus of the Bends the bulb towards the nose, eye. Draws the bulh towards the car. part of the foramen opticum. Adductor rectus, vel bibitorius; between the obliquus superior and depressor. Abductor rectus, vel indignabundus; between the fora- Into the internal canthus. men, opticum, and lacerum. Depressor rectus, yeXhumilis; from the inferior part of Into the inferior part of the tunica Draws the eye downwards, sclerotica. ‘ Into the posterior lateral parX of Moves it upwards,downwards, and the sclerotica. inwardly. Into an angle of the lower jaw. Draws the maxilla upwards, and to the side., Into the bone of the occiput near Draws back the head, the mastoid process. Into all the vertebrae of the neck. Turn the head anteriorly, back- ward, and obliquely. the optic foramen. Obliquus i)ifcrior,seu paruis; nearest to the orifice of the osseous lachrymal canal. rterygoidius iuternus j from the pterygoid process of the os palate. Obliquus superior capitis’, from the first vertebra of the neck. Longi colli; from the three superior vertebrae of the neck, and from the 3, 4, 5, 6', processes of the ver- tebrae of the neck. Scaleni rnedii; from the processes of the neck. Chiefly into the dorsal ribs. Turn the head backward, and ob- liquely. latertransversarii; from the processes of the vertebrae Tothe musculus longissiinus dorsi. Draw back the neck, of the neck, and first of the back. MUSCLES IN THE BREAST AND ABDOMEN. «. Lexatores costarum primarum. Fibres run down ob- From one rib to another, the mus- They strengthen the beginning of liquely, between the ribs from the extremity of the eleven uppermost ribs and last of the neck. the first rib, assisted by others, they elevate the rest. cles passing over the next rib are at length inserted in the subsequent. b. Intercostales externi. c. The first, d. Intercostales interni. e. The first, f. Diaphragm, g. A part laying towards the abdomen, h. Which looks towards the thorax, i. A foramen from which the oesophagus goes out. J(. Quadratus lumborum; posteriorly from the os ilium. Into the vertebrae of the loins, and Moves the lumbi, and bends them last rib.. obliquely. l. Psoas parvus; from the lumbar vertebrae. Into the juncture of the os ilium Bends the femur. and pubis. m. Psoxmagni; from the lumbar vertebrae, and last Into the little trochanter, and be- They bend the femur anteriorly of the dorsal. neath. and incurve the back. H, Iliad interni; from the os ilium in the pelvis. They are inserted jointly with the Bend the femur, ' psote into the trochanter. e. Obturatores externi; from the internal side of the Into the great trochanter. They rotate the femur, pubis. q. Erectorespenis; from the os ischium. Into the corpora cavernosa. They serve for erection, r. Sphincter externus ani; is an orbicular muscle in the It is connected to the os coccygis, Closes the anus, restrains tht intestinum rectum. intestinum rectum, bulb of the fjeces, urethra, and internal sphincter, ' ^ MUSCLES IN THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. «. Scapulares. b. Supinator brevis, c. Pronator quadratus. d. Flexor brevis polticis; from the bones of the carpus. Into the first bone of the pollex Bends the pollex, or thumb, and os sesamoideum. t. Adductor pollkis. f, g, h, i, k, I, m. Jnterossei interni Sf externi; from the bones of the metacarpus ; are inserted into the' first joints of the adjoining fingers ; they draw inwards the fingers. MUSCLES IN THE INFERIOR EXTRBWITY. Adiuclores magni femons. Tibiales postici. Peronei breves. Interosseiprimi digitorum secundonm, Tnferossei sccundi digitorum secundomm. Interossei sccundi digitorum tertiorum. Interossei secundi digitorum qvartorvm. Adduitor pollicis. The muscles of the globe of the eye, being too small in this figure, are demonstrated in Plate XVIII. fig. I. and in Plate XLVI. 6 J to