HISTORY OF MEDICINE. such a multitude of sick, nor attendants and friends to render their kind ofiices, by which many houses were obliged to be deserted. It appears then, that there were physicians at Rome, above two hundred years before the time of Archagathus; and Pliny must be understood to mean foreign, or Greek physicians ; from those observations being misunderstood, arose thflf report, which some moderns have also propagated, that all | hysicians were expelled from Rome by the advice and authority of M. Porcius Cato ; but this cannot be shewn from any ancient author, not even by Archagathus; and if it had been men- fioned, it is certain, that Cato could have had no intluence in the affair, since he was only fifteen years old when Archagathus came to Rome, who doubtless did not remain long, on account of his ill success. Some go still farther, and wish to explain, from this passage, in Pliny, that the physicians at Rome were vulgar people, servants, and men of a low situation in life ; ami that no real citizen practised medicine before the time of the Cajsars. Middleton has used all his ingenuity to establish this opinion ; but, on the other hand, many learned men, both in Germany I and England, have come forward and shewn, from incontestible documents, that Middleton injudiciously confounded surgeons with physicians, who were free men and of higher rank, than the professors of the liberal arts; and although some physicians? I from other nations, taken in war were captives, it does not follow, that all the physicians at Rome were slaves; it must, how- ! ever, be confessed that medicine made a slower progress amongst the Romans, than in other nations. ' Asclcpiades, of Bithynia, came to Rome almost an hundred years after Archagathus ; he was not descended from ^scula* pius ; he practised medicine with great repute by adopting a method, quite contrary from that of his predecessor ; and we find by Celsus, that he promised to cure diseases pleasantly, with safety and dispatch; hence he completely changed the I medicine of the ancients, and forbid all violent remedies, particularly emetics and purgatives ; he used mild medicines, and I prescribed abstinence from wine, and fasting, to the sick; he also recommended friction, walking, and exercises : sometimes be i was more indulgent and permitted the use of wine, and frequently gave a draught of cold water, which considerably increased his reputation ; and it appears that Asclepiades was in great esteem, as he was called by Apuleius, princeps medicorum, and inferior to none, except Hippocrates, and Lextus Empiricus; besides he was the physician and friend of Cicero, and was celebrated for his oratory, as well as physic. At this time, there were other physicians at Rome, cotemporary with Asclepiades, and in some repute, as mentioned by Cicero. • Amongst the disciples of Asclepiades, who were numerous, the first most deserving notice is Themison, who, after being : advanced in years, and wishing to render medicine more easy of comprehension, founded a new sect called methodists. He ti divided all diseases into three classes only, viz. tense, lax, and moderate: as if from these general principles, a knowledge of II all diseases could be obtained. He had many followers from the faculty with which the medical science of this sect was ac- quired ; and Thessalus carried it still farther, by asserting that the w hole of physic might be learned in six months. All those 11 men were pursuing a method w'idely different from the learning of Hippocrates, and indulged their own fancies. But Celsus was the first of the Romans, who chiefly revived the doctrines of Hippocrates, and translated them elegantly ' 1 into his own language, so that some have called him the Latin Hippocrates ; he has not, however, exactly followed all his I expressions; possibly from the Greek sentences not being easily rendered by Latin phraseology. ‘ He is said to have lived under Augustus and Tiberius ; be wrote eight books 4e medkind, in most elegant stile. Surgery is i likewise interspersed in his works, and he always advances his own sentiments on the subject, which are sometimes opposed to I others. He described so accurately lithotomy, w'ith the situation and apparatus, that Professor Rau, the most celebrated 1 litbotomist, w hen questioned about his successful method of operating, by which scarcely five in one hundred perished, recom- juended an attentive perusal of Celsus. He was a physician, but did not attend every one, some have, therefoi'e, doubted whether he practised physic ; yet it is probable that he administered the art to his friends, and a few acquaintances; his skill ' in medicine is evident from the frequent interposition of his judgment, in the different opinions and controversies of physicians iu aflairs of the greatest moment. There are various editions of his works, the best and most recent was lately published by Krause, at Leipsic, 1760, large octavo. This was the state of medicine amongst the Romans, whilst it was cultivated at Alexandria, in Egypt, with the greatest attention by the disciples and followers of Herophilus and Erasistratus, whither Galen went to study medicine. But before we mention him, it will be proper to say a few words of Ajetaeus Cappadox. He practised medicine iu Cappadocia, although the exact time in which he lived cannot be defined. Some contend tliat he lived