( *01 ) SA?JGU1NE0US EROFLUVIA. IIjEHioptysis, or spitting of blood, is a symptom of the lungs being wounded, or contusion of the thorax. Haematemesis, or vomiting of blood, is a symptom of the stomach being wounded, or vessel ruptured. ITjematuria, or passing bloody urine, is a symptom of wound or contusion in the bladder and kidneys, lifting an heavy weight, stone in the bladder, or ruptured vessel. Menorragia, or uterine haemorrhage is a symptom of the uterus being contused, particularly in pregnant wo- men, also of polypus, rupture of vessels. A bloody diarrhoea, is a symptom of the intestines being abraded, or bruise of the abdomen. Bloody discharge from the piles, is a symptom of intestinal tuberculi, polypi, burst vessel, or cancer. DISCH.VRGES WITHOUT BLOOD. Vomiting is a symptom of the brain being disturbed, of in- jury done to the diaphragm or stomach, incarcerated hernia, renal ischury, fever, &c. Vomiting of foeces of the intestines, with costiveness, is a symptom of incarcerated hernia, constriction of the rectum, and cholera morbus. Diarrhoea, or frequent going to stool, is a symptom of irritated intestines, of ulcers, abscesses, or wounds from which pus is absorbed, of ischury, and of the essence of aloes being applied to a wound constantly for a long time. Ptyalismus, or copious excretion of saliva, is a symptom of increased action of the salivary glands, injury done to the salivary duct, of an ulcer in the mouth, of irritation caused by a tooth, of ischury and mer- curials applied externally, or taken; a purulent ptyalism, is a symptom of an ulcer in the ears, nos- trils, or fauces. Anacatharsis, or expectoration of pus from the lungs, is a symptom of contusion of the thorax, injury done to the lungs, or of empyema. Diabetes, or too copious efflux of urine, is a symptom of contusion of the loins, or increased urinal secretion. Enuresis, or involuntary emission of urine, is a symptom of luxated vertebrse, uterine, or vaginal polypi, pro- lapsus uteri, cystocele, fistula of the bladder, lith- otomy, or relaxation of the sphincter of the bladder. Incontinence of the stools or fceces, is a symptom of luxated, or fractured lumbar vertebrae, injury, or pertubation of the spinal marrow, of cancer, or swellings in the rectum, division of the sphincter ani in lithotomy, operation for the fistula, morbid sphincter. Pyuria, or discharging a purulent matter, or mucus, by the urethra, is a symptom of calculus, piles, ulcer of the bladder, or kidneys, and ptis absorbed from an abcess. Levjcorrhoea, or fluor albus, from the vagina, or uterus, is a symptom of an ulcer, or cancer, polypus, or pro- lapsus, of those parts, diseased habit. Ff Gonorrhoea, or a discharge of pus like mucus, from the urethra, is sometimes a symptom of calculus in the bladder, bougie in the urethra, or ulcer there, ve- nereal infection, &c. Flatulence, a return of air by the mouth, in belching, and noise in the bowels, is a symptom in persons subject to hernia, flatulency, acid air, &c. .Edopsia, or emission of wind by the urethra, or vagina, is a symptom of fistula ani penetratyig into the bladder, or vagina, or ulcer penetrating the bladder from th« rectum. RETENTIONS OF THE EXCRETIONS. Ischuria, or retention of urine, either in the kidneys, or urethra, when in the latter, it is a symptom of a stone, or carnuncle in the urethra, of a tumour in perinaeo, or between the bladder and rectum, of a contracted urethra, paralysis of the bladder, oedema- tous penis, and concretion of the prepuce. Renal ischury, is a symptom of inflammation of the kidneys, injury done to the bladder, or spasm, as is sometimes seen after lithotomy. Dysuria, or painful and scalding discharge of urine, is a symptom of calculus, inflamed piles, virulent go- norrhoea, when fresh contracted, and sometimes of cantharides externally applied. Dysmenorragia, or suppression of the menses, is a symptom of the orifice of the uterus, or vagina being concreted. Costiveness, is a symptom of concretion of the rectum, polypus of the intestines, wound, or injqry of the gall, bladder, and incarcerated hernia, or of di- minished bile. SEMIOTICA, OR DOCTRINE of the SIGNS OF DISEASES. A sign is a phaenomenon, or appearance, by which we know the state of a present, past, or future disease. The signs of diseases are divided, into, 1. Diagnostic, which denote the present state of the disease. 2. Anamnestic, shewing the preceding state of the disease. 3. Prognostic, which denote the future state of the disease. The diagnostic signs are subdivided into projjer, common, and cpigenomena. The prognostic signs are subdivided into good, equivocal, and bad. THE DIAGNOSTIC OF DISEASES. This is a science, explaining the signs, by which a present disease may be known, and distinguished from ano- ther ; thus the signs of a present disease, are found out by the assistance of the external senses, soun4 judgment, and analogy, by anatomy, &c, 1. By the touch, with the finger, or instruments, as a ca- theter, or probe, by which we know the extent or di- rection of wounds, or ulcers, the presence of a cal- culus in the bladder, fracture, or luxation of a bone, f hardness,