( 159 ) THE the medium of the solids and, fluids, of which the body is composed, performs various actions, which are called the functions of an animal body. I I THESE ACTIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO 1. Vital actions, which carry on life. 2. Animal actions, which perform sense and motion. 3. Natural actions, which preserve the body. ^ 4. Sexual actions, which propagate our own species. 5. Public actions, which are common to the whole body. 6. Private actions, which are pecu'iar to one part of the body only. 7. Foetal actions, which are peculiar to the foetus. 1 Physiology treats of all these actions ; but those peculiar to any single part, are explained in Anatomy, llygrology, &c. I It is necessaiy for Students, who are well acquainted with those Sciences, to understand Physiology. ON THE VITAL ACTIONS GENERALLY. 1 Those actions are called vital, which carry on life in the body. I The life of our body consists in the circulation of the blood ; [ for when this ceases, life is at an end. 1! 1 FOR THE CIRCULATION, THERE ARE REQUIRED j 1. An action of the heart. : 2. arteries. ! 3. veins. 1 4. Respiration, after-birth, and ! 5. Animal heat. THE Circulation. , 1 i 1 THE BLOOD IS IN CONTINUAL MOTION: 11. From the arteries of the heart into the arteries. 12. From the arteries into the veins. |3.- From the veins into the ventricles of the heart; for the blood returns from every part of the body, and is emptied into the heart by the venae cava*. il. Into the right renous sinus, and right auricle of the heart. lb From the right auricle into the right ventricle. Ij. Plom the right ventricle into the common trunk of the pulmonary artery. t. From the extremities of the pulmonary arteries into the pulmbnary veins. 5. From the pulmonary veins'into the left venous sinus, and left auricle. 6. From the left auricle it is propelled into the left ventricle; and 7. From the left ventricle into the aorta, by which it is car- ried to every part of the body. The whole mass of blood, which is about fifty pounds, passes through all parts in the space of an hour. THE USES OF THE CIRCULATION ARE 1. To give life and heat to every part. 2. For nourishment. 3. For the secretion of all the humours. 4. To keep the blood fluid, and to prevent putrefaction. 5. To convert the chyle into blood. ACTION OF THE HEART. The action of the heart consists in the alternate contraction and dilatation of its auricles, and sentricles. The dilatation is called diastole ; and the contraction, sistole. The heart is contracted by means of its muscular fibres. THE CAUSE. ' Disposing it to contraction, is its great irritability. THE CAUSES, EXCITING IT TO CONTRACTION, ARE 1. The stimulus of the venous blood rushing in from the venm cavee. 2. Nervous influence of the cardiac nerves in the muscular fibres of the heart. The heart pulsates four thousand five hundred times in an hour; therefore it is contracted and dilated one hun- dred and eight thousand times in twenty-four hours. THE USE OF THE HEART Is to receive the blood from the veins; to propel it into the arteries; and to keep the blood in motion. . ACTION OF THE ARTERIES. , Arteries, by the impulse of the blood, are dilated, and, at the same time, irritated; and, by the assistance of their muscular fibres, they contract, and thus propel the blood into the veins. The dilatation and contraction of an artery', is called the pulse ; hence the pulsation is found in trunks and branches; but, in capillary vessels, when free from infiamation, the pulse cannot be felt, nor even seen with a miscroscope.