( ti6 ) C1V1910H. Each tooth is divided into a corona, or crown, which is the upper part, projecting ahovc the jaws ; a neck, which is a circle under the crown; and a root, which is the inferior part of the tooth hid in the socket. • imrEHENCES DP THE CORONJE, Oil CROWNS. The crowns of incisoies are broad, and have a sharp edge. The crowns of canini are thick, and have a blunt point. The crowns of molares have several eminences. DIFFERENCES OF THE ROOTS. The I’oots of the incisores, are single, and taper. The roots of the canini, are likewise single, but longer, and thicker than the incisores. The root of the first of the molares is single; but of all the othei-s, is double, treble, or iji’.adruple, which some- times grow together. CAVITY. In the root of each tooth, there is a foramen, leading into a small cavity, which is in the internal substance of the tooth, through this foramen, the nerve, artery, alveolar vein, and internal periosteum of the tooth arc carried. SUBSTANCE OF THE TEETH. At the root is compact ; the external surface of. the crown is surrounded by a very hard and white sub- stance, called enamel. CONNECTION. The roots of the teeth are fixed in the alveoli, by gomphosis, USE. For mastication. THE FORMATION OF TEETH. A foetus has two rows of teeth in each jaw, which arc covered by the gums. The time of the first dentition is about the sixth, or seventh month after birth; these arc called primary, or milk- teeth. The time of the second dentition is about the seventh year ; theprimary teeth then gradually decay,and are, in time, succeeded by now teeth, which are called secondary, or perennial teeth, because they continue through life. The last grinders do not come out before puberty, and arc, on that account, called dentes sapiential. C.WITY OF THE FAUCES. SITUATION. Under the basis of the cranium, between the superior bodies of the vertebral of the neck, and the posterior part of the nose. SHAPE. At the top it is nearly square. DIVISION INTO SIX PARTS. 1. The superior, which is from the basilary process of the occipital bone. 2. The anterior, formed by the pterygoid apophysis of the spbocnoid bone, by the palatine bones and the vomer. 3. The posterior, formed by three superior vertebr* of the neck, and has two sides, formed by the petrous por- tions of the temporal bones. COMPOSITION. It is therefore made up of ten bones. USE. To contain the fauces, pbarjmx, lar^mx, and bone of the m hyoldcs, or bone of the tongue. OS HYOIDES. SITUATION. In the fauces, between the base of the tongue and larynx. SHAPE. It is semilunar. DIVISION INTO BODY, AND FOUR HORNS; NAMELY, Two larger horns, which go from the sides of the body, and arc connected with the horns of the scutiform cartilage, by means of ligaments. Two lesser horns, which project toward the origin of the larger boms. 7 CONNECTION WITH SIX PARTS, EITHER BY MUSCLES) OR LIGAMENTS. . 1. It is connected with the tongue. 2. processes of the larynx. 3. With the styloid processes of the temporal bone. 4. lower jaw. 5. scapula. 6. sternum. USE. It serves as a point of adhesion for the tongue, and for deglutition. THE CAVITY OF HEARING. SITUATION. Inteinally in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. DIVISION. Into external and internal auditory passage ; tire cavity of the tympanum; the four small bones; and the labyrinth. OF THE TRUNK. The trunk of a skeleton is divided into spine, thorax and pelvis, TUE