xviii INTRODUCTION, to dissections^ after death. Thus blending, in one vic\v, tiie actual living functions, the reasonings resulting, and the visible defects of all the parts of the human body, post mortem, a complete knowledge of the real causes of most diseases may be acquired, without having recourse to the imaginary conceits of dubitable hypothesis. In this work, the pathology succeeds the physiology. IV. In the rational practice of physic, surgery, &c. The previous science already described prepares the medical practitioner to reflect sensibly on the positive danger, difliculfies, or probable facility in the treatment of diseases, and performing operations. Witli this rational foresight, and a perception of the resistance to be expected in any disorder, united to the previous and present state of the patient s constitution, the indications of cure and contra-indications are discoverable, and apt remedies may be judiciously prescribed, from their known and experienced power and efficacy. To attempt healing the sick without compre- hending the complicated and real causes of diseases, determined by anatomical, physiological, and pathological facts, is like attempting to sail in a ship on the ocean without ballast, rudder, or compass. It is random quackery to depend on any particular nostrum, or remedy, in the cure of dift'erent disorders; for, if it be harmless, the afflicted may be lost for want of an active remedy; if violent, it may kill by rash or injudicious application. By penetrating, however, into the origin of diseases from dissections and experience in former instances, and by having concluded from the appearances after death, what could \\q\qproduced the effects observable in life; a physician wall not only be able to proceed in practice satisfactorily, but judge of past professional errors, and form an accurate and sagacious estimate of all future inquiries and improvements. Such a well- informed practitioner in medicine, actuated by logical reasoning, will cautiously examine novelties, but will be ahvays open to conviction. The flights of fancy may amuse, but in all important concerns reason should be satisfied. The plausible deceptions wdnch so often disgrace the medical profession, will be perceived with a glance of the eye; the mind will reflect with the rapidity of a flash of lightning on the competency or incoinpetcncy of human intellects, in wdiatever may be the object of research. The delusions that lead the indolent or superficial, make no impression on such a character. If he be strictly an honest and discerning man, truth is embraced, and merit respected wherever discoverable: professional prejudices, duplicity, and fallacy, are detected, ex- posed, and rejected. If such honourable members of society have enemies, they can only be the enemies of truth and integrity. It is the sincere wash and hope of the author, that every medical student wall industriously study the profession, act with great probity, humanity, and hortour, and seriously consider the important trust committed to his charge, after the regular studies the art requires. The preservation of health, the power often of life and death, is submitted to medical care and skill. To assume an air of wisdom, and be superficial, or incapable, is an heinous oflcnce against Heaven and all human society; to be as skilful as the art admits, is an indispensable •.Uitv. If medical pupils avoid incomprehensible pursuits, and follow' the methods shortly to be recom- mended to obtain real knowdedge, and if they keep a journal under the heads of name, age, symptoms, disease, remedies, and observations, divided into columns, according to the form in use at the aSY. dMary-lc-bone Infirmary, it is next to impossible for the studious not to well comprehend the gene- ral c/’cn/m of practical medicine in the space of t^vc or three years, from whence they may procecR