( i88 ) Mortal diseases ai-e subdivided into, 1. Those whicli arc absolutely mortal, in which luither art, nor nature can prevent death. 2. Those wliich arc mortal naturally, but which arc cured by art, not by nature, as scarlatina anginosa, &c. 3. Accidentally mortal, which are not naturally so, but cause death by improper treatment of the practitioner, or abuse of the nonnaturals. 4. Doubtful, of which the termination in life or death is uncertain. 5. Relapsing, which, after being cured, frequently return as a cataract, amaurosis, gout, chronic, rheu- matism, &c. 6. Salutary, which preserve a person from a more dangerous disease, which they sometimes remove, as ulcers, cri- tical tumours, purging, &c. 7. Unsalutary, or hurtful, which neither preserve the body from any other disease, nor cure it. DIFVERENCE OF DISE.\SES FROM THE KIKD OF LIFE. From the kind of life, diseases arc divided into those of arti- ficers, soldiers, countrymen, literary persons, the clergy, the rich, the poor, travellers, or those leading a sedentary life. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FROM CONSTITUTION. From a difference of constitution, diseases arc divided into tho.se of a sanguineous, bilious, pituitary, or atra- biliary habit. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FROM SEX. From the sex, diseases are divided into masculine and femi- nine; feminine diseases are subdivided into those of virgins, of pregnant women, during child birth, after delivery, and of old women. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FROM AGE. From the age diseases arc divided into those of the fadus, children, young persons, adults, and old people. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FROM CLIM.tTE. From the climate, diseases are divided into those of hot, cold, temperate, wet, or dry climates. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FRO.M TIME.* From the time diseases arc divided into those of spring, sum- mer, autumn, and winter, those happening at the new, or at the full moon, diurnal and nocturnal. From the time of continuance diseases are divided into re- cent and inveterate. Finally, each disease may be distinguished into its stages, as beginning, advancing, remaining, declining, and ^pishing. ^ETIOLOGY, OR DOCTRINE OF THE CAUSES OF DISEASES. ON THE CAUSES OF DISF.A.SES GENERALLY. The cause of a disease is any thing which produces it. In a general way, the causes of diseases arc divided into, 1. Procgumcnic, or predisposing. ‘2. Procatartic, occasional, or exciting. 3. Proximate, or constituent causes of diseases. The procgumcnic, or predisposing causes, is such a dispo- sition of the body as renders it lit to receive a disease. All diseases have not a predisposing cause; this predispo- sition is a certain state of the fluids, solids, or both, and is present in the constitution, before the disease takes place. The procatartic, or occasional cau.se is a thing, which, be- ing applied to the body excites a predisposition to disease This is also called the remote cause, and is divided into, 1. External, which does not exist in the body, but is ap- plied to it. 2. Internal, which existing in the body, occasions the disease. The proximate cause is that change of the fluids or solids, which constitutes the existing disease, or it is the disease itself. The study of the causes of diseases is extremely necessary for physicians, since a cure depends on the removal of the morbific cause. THE PROXIMATE CAUSE OF DISEASES. The proximate causes are simple diseases of the fibres, or humours, which'constilute the parts affected. DISEASES ARISING FROM SIMPLE AFFECTIONS OF THE SOLIDS. Laxity, occasions distortion, luxation, true aneurism, piles, hernix, debility of the moving powers. Mollities ossium, or softness of the bones, causes bending of the limbs, crookedness, or deformity of parts. Rigidity gives rise to anchylosis of the joints, brittleness of the bones and fractures. A consumptive wasting of parts produces a putrid, gan- grenous, or carious humour. Too great elasticity, thus too much elasticity in the carti- lages of the pelvis, causes adiflicult labour in women that are past youth. Too little elasticity, thus weakness of the cartilages of the pelvis, causes diastasis of the bones of the pelvis, and weakness, or inelasticity of the intervertebral cartilages occasions deformity, crookedness, &c. Increased irritability, stimulus upon the nerves of sense causes pain, upon the nerves of motion it produces spasm.