Ixv HISTORY OF MEDICINE ! When wounds have a kind of oblique cavity, that cavity must be cut broad, ("xj When wounds are orbicular, and very hollow, they must be cut with a double incision, longitudinally, so that the wound may be rendered longitudinal, ("t) When 1 the bone is divested of its integuments, we ought carefully to consider, whether the bone be split or contused, if it be not j apparent to the sight, or whether the contusion or fissure, or both, bear any resemblance to the shape of the instrument with which they were made ; if the bone should be in any of these states, it is to be perforated, with a small perforator, and blood j extracted from it. It is only to be remembered, that the bones, in young persons, are thinner than those in adults. The 1 w hole bones of the head, except a small portion of the lowest, and uppermost, are like a sponge, and contain a large quantity I of moist fleshy substance, which when pressed with the fingers, discharge blood, (u) There are, besides, in these bones, i small veins full of blood. In the beginning of the Book De Capit. Vulneribus, is remarked, that mens heads are not universally alike in shape, (x) nor their sutures situated in the same places, (y) Celsus, in the fourth chapter of his eighth book, highly applauds Ilippo- ( crates, for his candour in acknowledging that he mistook a fissure, for one of the sutures. j When it is doubtful, whether the cranium be fractured or not, ('zj the patient is to take stalks of asphodil, or fennel, be- i tween his jaws, {a) and chew them; and at the same time, we must observe, whether in any part of the cranium, a noise is perceived, which will be the part fractured. J But in process of time, fractures are discovered partly on the seventh, and partly on the fourteenth day, (h) and partly by the other circumstances; for a separation of the flesh from the bone happens, the bone becomes livid, the pain is increased, ichor is discharged ; and these symptoms very difficultly admit of a cure. After recounting various means, by which the cranium becomes injured; follows, when for instance, the bone is hurt, on the side opposite to that on which the blow was received; there is no cure for this disorder, (c) because we cannot discover in what part of the head the injury is situated. In his Coacae Prenotiones, he tells us, that those who are wounded in the temples, (d) are seized w'ith convulsions, on the side opposite to that on which the wound was inflicted. In the seventeenth section, of the Treatise on Wounds of the Head, the same doctrine is confirmed, by advising surgeons not to make incissions rashly in the region of the temples ; because, such incissions produce subsequent convulsions, on the side opposite to that which the wound was received, (e) If there be a wound on the left side of the head, the right side of the body will be seized with convulsions ; but if the wound be on the 1.1 left side of the head, the left will be convulsed. In the third section of the Book De Morbo Sacro, it is said, the brain of man, as well as of all other animals, is double, (f) I and divided in the middle by a slender membrane. For this reason, the head does nut ach always in one part ; but some- j times on one side, and at other times, on the other. When the cranium is laid bare, after making the incission through the integuments, (g) the wound is to be filled with lint, j in order to'enlarge it with as little trouble as possible; but, during the use of this lint, (h) the application of a cataplasm of fine flour, boiled in vinegar to a pi per consistence, is advised, in order to prevent too great an inflammation. The exami- nation of the parts ought to be postponed till next day, (i) after laying the bone bare; though after an enumeration of dangerous symptoms. In the Book De Capit. Vulneribus, it is inserted, if you are sure that the patient labours under a fever, or any other urgent symptom, (k) the operation is by no means to be delayed ; but, the bone is either to be cut with a saw, or rasped with the rugine, to the very membrane. A ferrated and hollow terebra something like the trepan, was used by Hippocrates, and this instrument was sometimes used to perforate the ribs, (1) to discharge the dropsy in the breast; though others say this was done by the simple terebra. j The head may be safely cut in any part, except in the temples, (m) and that space which liesjibove them, near the vein I s that I (s) Manner of dilating. 1 (x) Heads not alike. ‘ (a) Another method to discover the fracture, j (d) Coac. prenot. I (g) De capit. vulneribus. {i) To postpone the examination, till the next day. (wj De cap. vulner. Sect. XIX. (f) De cap. vul. Sect. XX. (y) Sutures not always the same. (t) Coac. priEuot. (e) Convulsions on the contrary side. (h) The cranium laid bare to discover the fracture, (k) Unless the symptoms be urgent. (tt) The diploe is observed, (s) Coac. prenotion. (c) Contra fissure. \j") De morh. Sacro. (X) Deinternis alTcttionibus,