cxi HISTORY OF MEDICINE >nowledge. He who-well comprehends the art, if he acquire practice, will soon distinguish himself by superior talents, and successful cures, will establish a permanent reputation, which no opposition, however formidable, or malevolent, can over- throw, Acquire science, be humane, and assist the poor, reject novel narrow-formed systems, avoid disputation and strife, be attentive, kind, generous, and civil to all who apply for relief, and your labours will be incessantly crowned with honours, and all the emoluments which follow merited estimation. Let the hospital pupil keep a book, and write down all cases that occur in practice, the age, disease, constitution, remedies prescribed, and observations on the success of the practice adopted. This mode leaves on the mind strong impressions, which future age shall not obliterate, but which will be promptly called forth on similar occasions. The plan I recommend at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, is the following, divided into columns. Name. -Age. Disease. Symptoms. Habit. Indications. Remedies. Observations. Such a register used in an hospital of full practice, with wonderful facility, initiates the young student into the very essence of sound practice, and conveys the science of the old experienced preceptor into the inexperienced juvenile mind. Those who have had the greatest opportu- nities of education and practice in the country, previous to attending a London hospital, will benefit sooner than those, who have every branch of science to commence on their arrival in the metropolis; but the latter should make up the deficiency by unremitting ardour. All attainments are acquired, and a laudable ambitious zeal for excellence, seldom fails of obtaining it, aut Casar, aut Nihil, should be the stimulus and active principle, in every students mind. DISSECTIONS OF MORBID BODIES. ALL reasonings on medicine were defective, very defective, until morbid dissections demonstrated by ocular evidence, the effects of diseases in the dead human body.; all other sources of intelligence were doubtful, conjectural, and liable to error; but these are real, indisputable, and overturn, at once, all imaginary systems, and pave the way, above all other means for perfecting the art; Bonetus, JMorgagni, Lieutaud, and Sauvage, De Haen, Stork, and our excellent anatomists. Dr. Hunter, Mr. J. Hunter, Dr. Baillie, and others, occasionally, have given distinguishing proofs of the utility of this modern science, and illustrated the art with new and useful observations. These authors should be all seriously studied, and applied as direct as possible to the practice of medicine, surgery, and midwifery. For above forty years, no opportunity has been neglected, to promote these essential and necessary inquiries, and, indeed, my whole medical principles, w hich wiil heieafter appear, have been formed from such indubitable demonstration, joined to reflection, long practical experience, and conclusions from these sources. It is natural, then, to inculcate its absolute ne- cessity, to advance the only solid foundation of the art, though this practical part be not in much esteem with many, from the disgusting appearance dead bodies exhibit. The pursuits are highly meritorious, however, from that very circumstance, and my eltve, and indefatigable friend, Dr. Hooper, has acquired, by an unexampled industry, from morbid dissections per- formed in the presence of myself and pupils, a most profound science in these not very common investigations. Seeing the diseased before death, and examining the effects afterwards are more advantageous than the subjects, supplied for the com- mon dissecting room purposes. This circumstance is of great importance to our pupils. Tne opportunities for extispicial inquiries are immense, from the magnitude of the practice, the diversity of cases in all diseases ; the seeing, previous to death, all the symptoms that led to fatality, at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary. These advantages, young gentlemen,'are the sublimest in the art to cheek imaginary conceits, promote true science, and to leave on juvenile minds impressions of diseases, consequences, and morbid appearances, never to be effaced. It is not read- ing desu tory accounts, but viewing with your own eyes the dreadful effects of diseases, in all their various modifications. Sec, reflect, investigate, reason, conclude. Endeavour to discover whether any better treatment than that adopted could have been devised ; or whether the cases were in themselves inevitably fatal. Whether the neglects of the patients, or the non-admission of timely remedies, or the inefficacy of the practice adopted, led to death. All these are very delicate, but profound professional inquiries, and they should be conducted with great candour, circumspection, a regard to the honour of the profession, and all its members ; but above all, ascertain the truth as far as possible. Avoid the rocks others have split on, and so shall you arrive safely into port, on all occasions, like skilful pilots. It is very difficult for the most scientific and experienced, to judge rightly in difficult cases ; but it will alwaj’s be an honourable conduct to investigate facts, and support the dignity of the profession against the surmises of ignorance, or error; for the art has, at times, to contend with both, for the patient’s benefit. Never give an opinion that may injure the character of any other practitioner ; neither criticise nor censure