HISTORY OF MEDICINE. bcxiv nostics on tlic discoloration of the flesliy parts surrounding the fracture, are all worthy of the attention of practitioners. In tlie doctrine of fractures, what more is necessary, than the practice of our author. To bring ttic disunited parts into appo- sition, and after reducing them as nearly as possible, to their original form, to retain them with proper bandage. As to the management of particular dislocations, and fractures, we pass them over; for the general treatment was conformable to that we have already mentioned. But his cauterizing the parts about the axilla as represented, we consider a very cruel practice, as likewise most other cases in which the actual cautery was used. We do not, however, mean to reflect on our author for this last mentioned practice, as it would be uncandid, if not highly ungenerous. We should, on this occasion, recollect, he knew not the course of the arteries, and nerves, nor the utility of the ligature, in case of an hemorrhage; he, therefore, was obliged to be more cautious of the knife, than we, who have arrived at a high perfection in anatomical knowledge. His re- flexions on those who were scrupulously nice in the application of their bandages, making a vain parade and ostentatious shew of their profession, are the cfl’usions of a good mind, shocked at the abuses of illiterate practitioners, who depended more on a display of external formalites, than in real abilities in the art. But we cannot help observing, that such arts, have prevailed in all ages, and have proved an excellent cover for the defects of the mind. Our author’s method of reducing dislocations, are, in some respects, rather violent; but on the whole, his practice in other respects, is similar to the moderns. He used the ambe, in the reduction of the humerus ; we sometimes use the same instrument. We are rather inclined, from observation, in practice to consider this a violent method; for these disloca- | tions, in general, are easily reduced by gentle extension, and attempting a rotatory motion of the arm. By this means, the bone slips into its cavity, with very little force ; unless there have been too much violence used already. His methods of rolling fractures or dislocations is little infetior to any of the moderns ; and his observations on the accidents and various symptoms that attend violent luxations, or fractures, arc judicious, and correspond, in many respects, with most succeed- ing writers. His observations on the empyema, and his methods of treatment, are agreeable, inmost instances, to the practice of the moderns. His operation, however, must have been rather more precarious, as he did not understand the course of the in- tercostal arteries, in his incision, as they are covered by the ribs, not much danger ensued ; but when he applied the actual I cautery, or perforated the ribs by the terebra, we should be inclined to think that a dangerous hemorrhage must have ensued. Besides, we make choice of the upper part of the rib, and make our incision in that part, so as nearly to touch it; by which j method, we liave nothing to apprehend, as the arteries run in a furrow in the lower part of each rib. In general we may re- » mark, that this operation is less successful in this northern country, than in the warmer climates ; we shouhl, therefore, be | very circumspect in our promises, whenever wc perform it. As to Hippocrates’s method of discovering the proper place to operate on, by applying the eretrian earth, is very absurd and erroneous ; but his admitting the matter to flow gently after the operation, and by gradual means, is exceedingly sensible, and judicious. His place of operation is within one rib of the part we now operate upon, when he did not depend on his experiment of the eretrian earth. Bronchotomy, he recommended for the purposes we now perform it. His general method of treating the fistula in ano, is similar in many respects to that of the moderns, when we except the actual cautery ; and this cruel practice was retained till the fifteenth century, and long after by many. His notions that the hemorrhoids should not be healed, but suffered to discharge the superfluous blood, is a doctrine that has received approbation in all ages. Our author knew little concerning either the anatomy, or disorders of the eye; but his general methods of treating the inflammation, when we except, drinking wine, is similar to the practice of all succeeding writers. When he recommends us, not to use external applications, he is superior to the moderns; and we have clearly proved that many have been blinded by such inconsiderate attempts to cure the diseases of this delicate and nervous organ. Our author’s disapprobation of vomits, in inflammations of the eyes, is excellent practice ; but the scarrification of the eyes, however successful, it might have been jn Greece ; or as lately practised at Paris, wc have known it in this country to produce dangerous effects: and, instead of relieving the patient, do manifest injury. But in different countries the practice of physic should be various, or it cannot be successful; and therefore, we should not hastily condemn, as insignificant, or bad, any plan of cure, because it does not prove equally useful in one country, as it does in another. For a physician should well understand the practice of every age and nation. ON