a ( joa ) PLATE LII. Of the Omentumi Kepreseniation the Second, AH the former^parts are exhibited; but with the preater omentum on both sides collapsed, and the colon drawn a ^ little downwards, that the way to the concealed omentum might appear. , A. A, The concave part of the liver reclined, that those parts whicli are anterior, should be superior, or uppermost. ‘ From whence it follows, the gall-bladder, naturally placed , transversely, and its fundus anteriorly, its neck posteriorly, in a contrary manner to the common situation, is described. B. 13. The gall-bladder, or vessicula fellix, C. The umbilical vein, or vena umbilicalis. Here I add in the foetus, a much larger umbilical vein than ductus veno- sus, that the ratio of the lumen will be 629 to 100; there- fore, when the umbilical vein gives many branches to the ' liver, a great part of the umbilical blood is not immedi- ately carried to the ductus vemsus, but through the liver to the vena cava. D. Lohulus spigelii, visible through the smaller omentum, as in the former Plate. E. F. The stomach, almost empty, in the smaller curvature, . of which the lobulus spigelii enters, but, its anterior sur- face towaids the left part of the liver. G. The pylorus, from which the Jirst flexion of the duodcnuin ascends backwards. K. K. The gaflrocolion omentum, collapsed, appears in this to arise singly from the stomach, but not altogether; and not, therefore, from the duodenum, as many Authors have asserted. O, O. The limits in the colon, from which the gastrocolic omentum come forth. Q. Q. The smaller omentum, or omentum minus. S. S. Parts of the mesocolon, to the left, part of the second transverse f/uodfHi/w, appears more pellucid, the right wt- socolon, from the top of the kidney, a little obliquely, ascends inwardly, covers the scat of the vena cava, and applies itself to the first duodenum, then to the pancreas, and rises anteriorly to the same duodenum again, and comes through to the porta of the omentum, where, from the fissure of the liver, with the vessels, it comes to another competing root of the mesocolon, passing the duodenum, goes to the colon, and likewise from the pylorus, trans- versely under the stomach, through the whole latitude of f^e abdomen, and continued even to the spleen, an emerging lamina is more without, on its anterior part. The inferior, and similar transverse, places itself to this, free, and emerging to the duodenum, then a continuance of the external membrane of the rising jejunum, neatly joined to the mesentery. Between these two laminae, and the entire pancreas, and all the duodenum, but more evidently the inferior part, the nresenteric artery, its veins, and the biliary ducts. By infiatiun, it receives air, and swells into bubbles, not unlike the omentum, T. T. T. Various parts of the colon. Y. The second flexure of the duodenum, on which the gall* bladder is situated. X. third flexure oi the duodenum, or the descending part into which the ductus choledochus passes. y. Ligament, or membranes, which go from the gall-bladder in a continued transverse sulcus, passing the duodenum, to which they adhere for an external membrane, &c. These arc said, by Winslow, to arise from the liver, and gall-blad' der, but to terminate in the duodenum ; and .Monro, senior, calls them a duplicaturc of the omentum : but it is, there, a simple, yellowish, and smooth membrane, continued to the capsula of Glisson, and to the omentum. Z. a. The hepatic renal ligament, or of the peritonaeum, from the kidney to the liver, ascending, a double plica, or fold; IVinslow thinks it the pancreatic ligament for the other side of its foramen. But this is the ultimate root of the meso* colon, which contains the duodenum, as seenin the former Plate, R. Z. The lift termination. a. The right ter7nination of this ligament, b. b. The right kidney covered with the peritonaeum. c. The meatus of the celebrated Winslow, between the ligu- mentum hepatico-colicum, and hepatico-renale, as well as be- tween the lobe of the liver, and duodenum, and nearest the pancreas intercepted, a little drawn out, that it should up- pear to be Imiated.and reflected about the liver. Winslow was right in this; but has not observed, that this hiatus \s longer continued, and that it goes between the liver and bile ducts. Garengcot has given a rough Plate in his Sphncknolog, 'I', vi, f, 1. which, compare with ours., d. d. The colon, with its pinguedinous appendix. f. e. e. liitestuia tenuia, or small intestines., f. f. Part of the pancreas, which insinuates itself between the flexures of the duodenum. The two Plates of the omentum, &c. are of some use in considering ency sted dropsies'of the parts, as may be seen it my Treatise on Swelled Legs, Dropsies, &c. The first Figure iu Plate LI. gives a clear representation of the gall ducts, and pan- rreatic duct, opening in the duodenum. This demonstration may serve to correct an opinion, common in the mouths of ui in* formed mankind, and even some medical practitioners, of bile generating in the stomach. No bile is ever in the stoinac , unless forced there by the inversion of the peristatic motion of the duodenum, from whence may proceed into the sloraach. ■AVTcii vomits are given by the ignorant, they frequently observe bile come up: but this bile, in general, is forced theretmm the duodenum by the vomit. On the injurious practice of giving vomits, iu what are called Bilious Complaints read luy Treatise on Nervous Lliseases, «^c.