( 1^9 ) NUTRITION, THE INCREASE AND DECREASE OF THE BODY. Nutrition is the application of a nutritious juice to those wasted parts of the solids, which daily require reparation. The solid parts of our body, by the continual actions of life, are gradually destroyed, and the fluids excreted. THE CAUSES WHICH DESTROY THE SOLIDS ARE 1. Violent motion of the humours through the large and small vessels, by which their internal surface is destroyed. 2. The continual motion of the muscles, by which the cel- lular membrane and vessels are constantly suffering waste. 3. The constant motion of all the viscera. 4. The friction of the cloatlis, and of the air surrounding the body. 5. Finally, the frequent cutting of the hair and nails. By these means, the earthy element of fibres and gluter, by which they are united, is worn away, mixed with the fluids, by which they are surrounded and carried out of the body with the excretions. the causes which carry OUT OF THE BODY THE SOLID PARTS, MIXED WITH THE FLUIDS, ARE 1. Transpiration and sweat. 2. The urine. 3. The excrements from the intestines. 4. The saliva and mucus of the nose. 5. The menses and semen may be reckoned as occasional causes. By these evacuations, the humours are deprived of their saline aqueous principles; hence, they become thick, putrid, and acrimonious. • By these means, unless the quantity and quality of those parts which are destroyed, be daily renewed, our machine would soon perish—as long abstinence from food sufficiently convinces us. The parts which were lost being solids and fluids, we have Nutrition of the solids, and t fluids. Nutrition, or reparation of the fluids, is easily renewed; 1. The butyrac'eous part of the chyle, united to the martial earth, constitutes cruor. 2. The watery part of the chyle forms an aqueous vehicle of the blood and serum. 3. The glutinous part of the chyle, which is most nutritious, is united to the gelatinous part of the serum and lymph. (4. The superabundant oleaginous parts of the chyle, which ' cannot be united to the martial earth, is deposited in ' the cellular membrane, and restores or increases the adepsof the body. •See the Treatise, on all the Diets in the World in Volume Since the chyle contains not only elementary ’earth, but also fixed air and salts of every kind, it can furnish the constituent principles of the mass of blood, and for the secretion of humours. The reparation of fibres requires a junction of the earth and elementary gluten, the caseous part of the chyle forms the earth of the bones, and the oleaginous part, joined with the fixed air and water, forms the gluten of fibres. The nutritious juice of the solids, therefore, seems to be a gluten, more or less impregnated with earth, a greater quantity of earth being requisite for the bones, but a smaller portion for the soft parts. It does not appear whether the nutritious juices, earth, and gluten be attracted into the defective parts, by the force of attraction ; or, whether nutrition may be per- formed by any other means ; but, in my opinion, it is caused by attraction and cohesion.* Since every humour of our body, except the excreme its—as the urine, perspiration, and fceccs ; are impregnated with a gelatinous, or nutritious juice, which also per- vades the fibres in every part of the body; it is evi- dent that every part is continually supjflicd with a nutritious juice. Some parts—as the nails and hair are supplied by the appli- ' cation of a nutritious juice, which is called nutrition, by protrusion. INCREASE OF THE BODY. The more'completely man is originally formed, the more speedily he increases in size ; thus the embryo from an invisible being, in the space of nine months, increases to the weight of eight pounds. After birth, the body continues increasing to the twenty-first year; though each year, gradually less. Women attain their full stature sooner than men. THE CAUSES WHICH INCREASE THE GROWTH OF THE BODY IN THE FOETUS AND INFANT, SO CONSIDERA- BLY, ARE ' 1. The laxity, or more easily extension of all the vessels. 2. The vessels of some parts not being given off. 3. The greater proportionate size of the heart, as well as its greater irritability, and that of the arteries. 4. A quicker and stronger motion of the humours. 3. A soft, copious, and nutritious food; hence, a great quan- tity of gelatinous humours. 6. The cartilaginous and extensile state of the bones. THE IV, of the Rational and Improved Practice of Physic, u'ith Prescriptions, ^c. Xx