( 128 ) The face is divided into the forehead. temples. nose. eyes. mouth. cheeks. chin. ears, ' I The trunk is divided into the neck. thorax, or chest, abdomen. The neck is subdivided into the larynx, at the anterior part. posterior part, and sides. The thorax is subdivided into the anterior part, where the breasts are situated ; there is a depression at the lower part of the thorax, which is called scrobiculus cordis, into a posterior part, which is called the back, and into the lateral parts, or sides. The abdomen is divided into the anterior region. posterior ditto, called the loins, and lateral regions. The anterior region of the abdomen is subdivided into 'J’be epigastric region, the sides of which, under the libs, are called the hypocondriac regions. 2, The umbilical region, the sides of which are called the lumbar regions. 3, The hypogastric region, the sides of which arc called iliac, or inguinal regions. The pubis is a region, covered with hair at the bottom of the abdomen, the sides of which are called groins. Under the pubis, the parts of generation arc situated, In men, the scrotum and penis. In women, the labia pudenda, and orifice of the vagina. That space, between the genital parts and the anus, is called the perineum. The extremities are divided into superior and inferior: The superior is sub-divided into the top of the arm, in which the arm-pit is placed. Into the arm. fore-arm. hand, which is distinguished by the palm, and back of the hand. The hand is sub-divided into the wrist, hand, and fingers. Tlic fingers are distinguished, the fore-finger, or index. middle finger, ring. little, and thu.nb. The superior extremity is divided into the thigh, leg, which includes the knee, popliteal cavity, and calf of the leg, and into the foot, in which there are the sole and back of the foot, the internal and external ancle. The foot is sub-divided into the instep, foot, and toes. Tlic internal part of the body is divided into three principal cavities; namely. The cavity of the cranium, which contains the animal viscera* thorax for the vital viscera; and cavity of the abdomen for the na- tural viscera. THE COMMON INTEGUMENTS OF THE BODY. Under the name of common integuments are to be under- stood three membranes, which cover the external Oi surface of the whole body; namely, 1. The epidermis, 2. cutis. 3. adipose membrane. ^ THE EPIDERMIS Is a thin transparent membrane, covering the whole external surface of the body. | DIVISION. Into external surface, which is dry. T internal surface, which is mucous : this is called the mal- pighian mucus, or rete mucosum. CONNECTION. The epidermis is connected with the skin by means of this mucus. !" Thickness of the epidermis, on the face, is very inconsider- able; in the palm of the hand, and some part of the sole of the loot, it is much thicker. COLOUR. i Depends on the malpighian mucus, which, in Europeans, is white. | Ethiopians, black. | Spaniards, yellow. USE. To cover the very sensible cutaneous papillae, that the ait may not cause them to be dry, and painful. CUTIS. The skin is a thick membrane, situated between the. cpidei*- mis, and adipose membrane, covering the external surface of the whole body. , DIVISION