( 1^3 ) 2. The foqus of the rays passes through the aqueous humour and pupil of the iris, and is again'Concentrated in the ' chrystalline lens. 3. The focus thus concentrated, passes through the vitreous humour, almost unchanged to the retina, on which 4. The focus points or conveys the image of the external object, which is carried to the brain by the optic nerves. THE PARTS AUXILIARY TO SIGHT ARE 1. The eye-brows and lashes, which prevent the perspiration from falling into the eyes. 2. The eye-lids, which keep dirt or extraneous bodies from the cornea, and exclude too great a quantity of light. 3. The tears, which preserve the transparency of the cornea. / 4. The pupil, which is contracted in great light; and di- lated, where less light is present. 5. The pigmentum nigrum of the choroid coat, which ab- sorbs the focus of sight, and prevents it from going beyond the retina. THE USE. By the assistance of sight, we distinguish the following pecu- liarities of external objects; namely, ’ 1. The presence. 2. size. 3. shape. 4. colour. 5. distance. 6. number. 7. motion or rest. - 8. situation. THE HEARING IS A SENSE, By which we perceive the sound of sonorous bodies. Sound is a vibrating motion of the air, caused by striking some elastic body.—Without air we cannot hear. Elastic bodies only are sonorous, if struck by a sonorous body. Sound is carried to an amazing distance in the atmosphere, in right lines, which are called rays of sound; but these do not travel so fast as rays of light. Soft bodies diminish sound ; but elastic ones increase it. Tlie soft portion of the auditory nerve, the pulp of which is distributed on the vestibulum, simicircular canals, and cochlea, constitutes the organ of hearing. HEARING IS, THEREFORE, PERFORMED IN THE FOLLOWING' manner: 1. The rays of sound, passing from a sonorous body', arc carried to the ear, which, by its elasticity', increases them ; and by its shape, collects them into a focus, if we may use'that expression, the sound is then con- tinued through/the external auditory passage to the membranum tympani, which it causes to vibrate. 2. The tympanum vibrating, conveys its motion to the malleus, which is connected with it; this continues its motion to the incus ; this puts the os orbicular© into motion, which being joined to the stapes, effects a similar change; and the stapes, adhering to the fenestra ovalis, sets it in motion. 3. The fenestra ovalis, to the auditory fluid,, contained in the vestibulum and semicircular canals. 4. The gentle motion of the auditory fluid, causes a small motion of the nervous pulp, spread in the vestibulum and semicircular canals; these are carried to the common sensorium of the brain, by the nervous in- fluence of the auditory nerve. Besides, the vibra'tion of the tympanum causes, not only motion of the ossicula auditus, but also of the air contained in the cavity of the tympanum ; hence, 5. The vibration of the air of the tympanum causes the lamina, which surrounds the fenestra rotunda of the cochlea to be put into motion. 6. The motion of the lamina of the fenestra rotunda, causes an undulatory motion of the fluid, which fills the cavity of fhe cochlea. 7. The fluid of the cavity of the cochlea being in motion, effects the pulp of the auditory nerve in the cavity of the cochlea. The mind, finally, judges of the presence and diversity of sound. Sounds are divided into grave, sharp, increasing, weak, agreeable, disagreeable, harmonious, and disharmo- nious. The gravity or acuteness of sound, depends on the number of vibrations given at the same time. THE USE OF SOUND. 1. To learn speech, languages, and the discrimination be- tween good and evil. 2. To enjoy the exquisite pleasure of music and singing. 3. To be informed of the noise proceeding from things we do not see. 4. To perceive the ideas of other men. OF THE INTERNAL SENSES. The internal senses are ideas, which the mind forms. But