( 13^ ) USE. To make the inner silrface of the thorax smooth; to divide the thorax ; to cover the lungs and pericardium with their outer membrane; to secrete a fluid for the easy motion of the lungs ; and to prevent attrition. THE DIAPHRAGM. This is a septum, dividing the cavity of the chest from the cavity of the abdomen. SITUATION. Is obliquely downwards, from the apex of the sternum to the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. DIVISION. • Into upper, or concave surface, under, convex. ' a middle tendinous part. the remaining part, which is fleshy, or red muscular. adhesion. At the anterior part, to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum, as well as to the two last true ribs, and to the carti- laginous margin of all the spurious ribs; at the posterior part, it forms two fleshy crura, which adhere to the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. SU BSTANCE. Is tendinous in the centre ; red, and fleshy, or carnous, at ’ its circumference ; the superior surface is covered by the pleura; and the inferior, by peritoneum. THE APERTURES ARE 1. The right foramen is tendinous, and situated at the right side, through which the vena cava passes from the abdomen into the thora.x. 2. The left foramen is on the left side, and gives passage to 'the oesophagus, in passing from the thorax into the abdomen. 3. The posterior opening of the diaphragm^ formed between the posterior crura, through which the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct pass. USE. To assist in respiration. expulsion of forces, partuiition. forming a proper situation for the heart. THE LUNGS Are two viscera, situated in the cavity of the thorax, by which we breathe. DIVISION. Into right and left lung, which are sub-divided on the tight side into three lobes ; and on the left, two lobes. CONNECTION With the neck, by means of the trachea ; and with the heart, by the pulmonary vessels. SUBSTANCE ^IS TIIRETl-FOLD. 1. Vesicular, formed by the small cells. 2. Vascular, covering the cells like a net-work. 3. Bronchial, which terminates by small tubes in the minute cells. The external membrane is from the pleura, and closely sur- rojinds the outer surface of the lungs. The internal membrane, covering the inner part of the bronchia, and air vesicles of the lungs, is very ner- vous, and formed by a continuation of the internal membrane of the trachea. The vessels of the lungs are divided into common, or pulmo- nary^, and proper, or bronchial. The common are the pulmonary veins and arteries. The proper are the bronchial arteries and veins. USE ' Of the lungs is for respiration. voice, *and to effect a change in the crude blood brought by the right ventricle of the heart, &c. THE HEART Is a muscular v>scus,' situated in the cavity of the peiicar- dium, which carries on the circulation of the blood. DIVISION. Externally, into base, and apex. superior, inferior surface, anterior and posterior margin. Internally, it is distinguished into right and left ventricle. SITUATION. Is oblique, not transverse; its base is toward the bodies of the vertebrm, on the right side; and its apex towards the sixth rib of the left side; it is so obliquely situated, that the left ventricle is chiefly posterior; and the right, anterior : the inferiof surface lies upon the diaphragm. CAVITIES