HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Cll indeec], would not have been much promoted, if men had entirely confined themselves to experience, without reasoning, and the common adage, that a good theorist is generally a bad practitioner, is destitute of truth ; but a mere speculator may be the worst of practitioners. The speculations of during inexperience is the bane of ail practical science. But a man is often esteemed to be a good theorist, who is not so, but makes use of complex words, almost unintelligible, and frames whimsical and unfounded hypotheses, using reasons destitute of all experience, or draws his conclusions from ina- dequate, or partial experiments. I do not deny, that such a person is a bad practitioner, he is a pseudo-theorist, projector of hypothesis, and a speculator on nature. A true theorist is one who knows the true causes of the effects observable in yiaiicnts, for he, who understands the cause of the disease, can easily cure it, if a cure be practicable, and distinguish, whether it be a curable, or incurable complaint. This is best understood by those who enquire nto morbid causes by dissection post mostem. The great Van Swieten was of opinion, that a physician who fenou's a disease to be incurable, is as great, ns one who under- .stands how to remove a curable malady ; and it is very certain that many diseases are more successfully relieved by us, than by the ancients, only from our improved knowledge of their causes: for the cure is often very different and various, according to the diversity of cause of complaints, as in vomiting, cephalalgia, vertigo, and many others; and also that a great number of diseases, are at present, managed w ith difficulty, from their causes not being comprehended ; cpedemics, for example, in w hich we are obliged to act empirically, and form indications only from those things which are found to be advantageous, or pre- judicial. In epilepsia and mania, we try vaiious remedies of uncertain event, and as we are not acquainted with the true causes of these diseases, no certain method of cure, therefore, has been invented, for Celsus justly observes, “ Cujus rei non “ est certa notkia, ejus opinio certum reperire remedium non potest.” From which it may be considered a truth, that good theory founded on established experiments, is not only useful, but absolutely necessary for a physician, who is to be called into practice. THE PRINCIPLES AND DEPARTMENTS OF MEDICINE. THIS science has received many useless and fallacious things, from the means mentioned in the last chapter, and in order to banish them from physic, it should be considered, that the whole extent of the art is directed to avoid pain, debility, death, also to preserve present health, and to restore it when lost, therefore every thing that is necessary fora physician to know and perform, should serve to cfl'ect these purposes. For the objects of our art are the life, health, disease, and death of man, the causes from which they arise, the means by which they are regulated. Medicine, therefore, is a knowledge of those things, by the effect of which, when applied, healthy life is preserved, and re- stored, when diseased, to its former state of salubrity. The necessity, utility, and importance of which pursuit, must appear obvious. The art has always been honoured with the highest distinctions. Only two sure paths arc admitted, by which certain knowledge is acquired, for example ; I. An accurate observation of those appearances that arc manifest to the external senses, in a healthy, diseased, or expiring human body ; and in the dead subject, whether these arise from things that take place in man himself, or from those things which act upon him by ex- ternal causes, by chance, or the influence of remedies. II. A sedulous examination of those circumstances that occur in man, and are not cognizable to the senses, or those which are given with some determinate intention. But these can only be obtained by correct reasoning on experiments, in which every occurrence is to be carefully considered, and examined in all its properties; afterwards attentively compared together, to discover the relative aptness or diversity ; and lastly, every thing is to be admitted, without prejudice, that is clearly found to be contained in them, and these will not be found less correct than the former observations. But in order to discover necessary facts from given circumstances, certain principles are required, by the knowledge and application of which, a demonstration is effected, which is required to be distinct, clear, and certain, acquired by mechanical and philosophical experiments, for by these means, not only general, but also particular properties of bodies are detected, and the art illustrated. But since there are other things in man, that cannot be understood by those principles, and consequently not explained to demonstration, another method is to be pursued with them, if we wish to avoid error: this will be perceived, and easily ad- mitted, by any person who considers the preceding and following things. Nor