{ >47 ) THE BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL ARB The epigastric, crural. The crural, or femoral, continued downwards, becomes the popliteal: THE BRANCHES OF WHICH ARE The anterior tibial. posterior tibial. peroneal. cephalic of the great toe. Saphena. ' dorsal of the foot, plantar. digital of the foot. • SYSTEINI OF THE VENA CAVA. The vena cava begins, or evacuates itself into the right ve* nous sinus of the heart, and immediately divides into the vena cava, superior and inferior. The vena cava, superior, receives all the blood returning from the head, neck, thorax, and»uppcr extremities. The vena cava, inferior, receives all the blood from the ab- domen, and lower extremities. • VEINS OF THE HEAD. , The blood returns from the brain, face, and neck, by four veins; which are Two external jugular. Two internal jugular. The internal jugulars begin at the foramen lacerum of the cranium, and return all the blood from the cerebrum and cerebellum into the subclavian veins. The external jugulars are situated close under the common in- teguments of the neck ; and also evacuate themselves into the subclavian veins, returning the blood from the external parts of the head and neck, therefore they receive blood from the frontal, angular, temporal, auricular, sublingual, and occipital veins. VEINS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. The blood returns from the digital veins into the cephalic of the thumb, and salvatella veins the latter is situated near the little finger. At the bending of the fore-arm, there are three veins more particularly to be noticed ; namely, 1. The basilic, on the inferior part of the fore-arm. 2. The cephalic, running on the superior part. 3. The median, which takes a course between the basilic and cephalic. All these veins are continued into the brachial veins, which terminate in the a.xillary; and this empties itself into the subclavian vein. THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The axillary veins run under the clavicles, and are called the subclavian, one on each side, which finally form one trunk, and takes the name of the superior vena cava. THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA. This ascends from the last vertebra of the loins on the right side of the spine, passing through the right foramen of the diaphragm, and unites with the superior vena cava, terminating with it m the right venous sinus of the heart: whilst in the cavity of the abdomen, it re- ceives the hepatic, renal, right spermatic, lumbar, sacral, and iliac veins. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The veins of the toes empty themselves into the cephalic of the great toe, saphena of the little toe, and dorsal, running on the back of the foot. These, and the veins of the sole of the foot, empty themselves into the malleolar and sural veins, which terminate in the popliteal vein. The popliteal vein ascends, and becomes the femoral, or crural vein, which passes under Poupart’s ligament into the cavity of the pelvis, and forms a junction with the internal iliac vein; which latter receives the^ external ha-morroidal and hypogastric veins: both iliac veins, finally unite near the last lumbar vertebra, and form the vena cava inferior. SYSTEM OF THE VENA PORTA. That large vein, which carries the blood into the substance of the liver from ihc abdominal viscera, is called the vena portae, THE ABDOMINAL P.VUT IS COMPOSED OF THREE branches; NAMELY, The splenic vein, mesariac, and internal haunorroidal. CIRCULATION