xcvm HISTORY OF MEDICINE. For in fact, tlic Arabians injured medicine, by incorrectly translating Greek authors into their own language, corrupting the realle’nse of words, and making every thing subservient to the tenets of the Peripatetic philosophy. The totally neglected anatomy, as their laws prohibited them from touching dead human bodies, and implicitly followed Calen and Aristotle whose authority was so great, that in disputations, whoever quoted their sentiments wassvn-e of being an a- conqueror The Arabians, however, merit our thanks for having increased the materia inedica, by the addition of se- veral simple remedies, particularly the mild laxatives, as manna, senna, rhubarb, cassia, tamarinds, and myrobalans ; for the Greeks were only acquainted with drastic purges. They also first used sugar instead of honey in syrups, conserves, and con- fections and brought into use some new aromatics. They were the first people that described the measles, and prepared dis- tilled waters although, in other respects, ignorant in chemistry ; they likewise first introduced the \-anity of mixing gold and silver in their compounds: Sec Friend’s History of Medicine. At last after such manifold calamities, a dawn of hope for the restoration of medicine appeared, when the Spaniards having gradually recovered their country, began to have a more free communication with the Italians on literary and scientific suh- j^ects* for although there was a school founded by the Emperor Charles, at Salernum, in the eleventh century, the Arabian authors still continued to be studied. ' But in the beginning of the thirteenth century, the first translation of Galen into Latin appeared, and in the fifteenth, when Greece was conquered by the Turks, the learned were obliged to take refuge in Italy and France, by which the ancient doctrine of Hippocrates, little known at that time in Europe, began to be revived, and amongst the early advocates were Fernclius Duretus, Ballonius. A new discovery of still greater importance soon followed, which was the invention of printing about the middle of the fifteenth century. Greek authors began to be universally published, and the Arabian yoke at last shook off. ’ The works of the Grammarians were first attended to, and by their assistance, Hippocratic medicine, particularly in France, began to flourish. The chemists next became conspicuous, who, influenced by the vain expectation of finding the philosopher’s stone, and a universal medicine, made many useful discoveries, and although they never attained their objects, yet they greatly increased the experimental part of medicine and the materia medica, Basil Valentine, about 1400, was the first who applied chemistry to medicine. About a. century after him lived Theo- h astus Paracelsus, who had the greatest aversion to the Galenists and Arabians, he revived the doctrines of Basil Valentine, and claimed the merits without doing sufficient justice to the inventor ; and maintained, that all bodies consisted of salt, sulphur, and mercury. Although the greatest empiric in the world, he was a successful practitioner, chiefly by the bold Idministration of opium, mercury, and turpeth, (mineral) whose effects were very little known to the physicians of his lime: for opium was considered by the Galenists a poison, cold in the fourth degree, and such as extinguished the vigour of natural heat. In the bemnnin-T of the seventeenth century lived Van Helmont, who differed from the practice of his time, and was con- sidered a yet he is extremely praiseworthy, for having exploded, with great ardour, the Aristotelian and Galenical uibblcs, and roused the schools from their torpidity : he clearly shewed the vanity of founding medicine on reasoning alone, without experiments. By him Hippocratic medicine began universally to sink into less repute, and the chemists rapidly in- Treased ; so that chemistry, instead of being subservient to medicine, almost gained the ascendancy. Francis dc la Boe Sylvius followed, who first introduced chemistry into the academy, at Leyden; and it is doubtful whether these innovations assisted or impedited medicine. RoTcr Bacon, who held the medium between Basil Valentine and Paracelsus, was author of a masculine chemistry; and Robert Boyle, may be reckoned amongst the chemists; he was posterior to Van Helmont. But anatomy also, which had been neglected by the Arabians, was revived ; and Mundinus, an Italian physician, at Bononia, wrote a book on anatomy, about the year 1315, which was in so much esteem, that a law was passed in Italy, to pre- vent professors from teaching any other author in their lectures. His anatomy was very confined, but certainly better than none After an interval of almost two centuries, James Berengarius Carpensis, an eminent anatomist and surgeon lived, who in 1521, published commentaries on Mundinus, at Bononia, and also a book of his own on anatomy; he was the first who cave anatomical plates engraved on wood ; and he was the first, except Paracelsus, who used mercury in the cure of the lues ® venerea.