PLATE XXXV. . ■ / f Figufe It TLfe botly bcinji; placed in the same positidii As in the expla- nation of Plate XXXIII. the whole of the aitris externa, with the cartilaginous meatus auditoi'ius; also, the mbstoid and styliform processes, with the annexed muscles, and some other parts, are removed, to elueidate more clearly the conformation of the superior nerves. a. The osseous jneafas fl«(/iVo;7dry. h. Radix of the mastoid process cut off. i - - c. Condyloid process of the inferior maxilla. d. Angle of the inferior maxilla. c. Transverse process of the first vertebra atlas. {. Inferior lateral part of the body of the atlas^, pro- ' cessus of the ohliquus descendens, which forms a ■ little protuberance. ^ g. Muscle rectus lateralis of the head. .. h. Superior part of the ftTofor scqptffir. , i. Part of the oblique inferior. ; ■ k. k. JIuseulus jpnar. - ' ' . ' 1. First rib, to which the muscle, just mentioaed, is annexed. m.m. Rectus internus major of the head, : j i n. Longus colli. i ■ • . o. .^.xter\2t. innominata. ■ - p. »ubclavia dextra. ■ ' ! <j. —: thyroidea iiferior. T. Transverse scapular ramus of the same, s. Arteria vertebralis. t. cervicalis profunda. Ti. u. Common trunk of the carotids. 1. Superior radices of the intercostal nerve nmniiig into one nerve in the canalis caroticus, which here emerges from the ianal already mentioned. 2. Ramus, from the first pair of cervical nerves, in- serted in this nerve. J. Another ramulus, running from the anterior ramus of the first pair of cervical's to this nerve. 4'. 5. Ganglion cervicale superius, consisting of two tubera, and a thinner intermediate portion in this case. 6. Ramus gangliformis, stretching out from the third pair of cervicals to the first cervical ganglion, and forming, as it were, the cauda, or tail of the gang- lion. 7. Ramulus, which descends from the preceding ramus to tht fourth pair, or via versa, it aacfttwfs from the j fourth. 8. 9. Two ramuli, running from the conjunction of the anterior ramus of thefirst pair, with the anterior ra- mus of the second pair, to the superior ganglion. 10. Ramulus pas.sing from the anterior ramus of the second pair to the ganglion already mentioned. - 11. Ramus, from the par vagum, inserted into that ganglion. 12. First rainufe »nc»/fis, running from the ganglion. j, 13. Superior ramulus of the same, which uniting w'ith a ^ ramulus of the iiervus glosso-pharyngtus, Num. 35. 13. Goes 10 the constrictor medius of the pharynx and stylo’pharyngeus. 14. Inferior raraqlus of nerve, Num. 12, inserted in the constrictor rneaius of the pharynx. 15. Second neruus mollis, oi the ganglion. 16. SurcuUis of this running to the third nervns mollis. 17. ConjftTiCtion of ramus, Num. IS, with surciilus, Num. 33, of the nervus g/os40-j»Aarj/«getf<y, 18. Surculus of the second nervus rrtellis, Numi 15, to V be united with a surculus of tlm nervuS laryngeus. 19- Another surculus of ramus, Num. 15, which is ^ implanted in the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. 20. TAirr/jUnd more remarkable nervus of the su- perior ganglion. ^21, First ramulus of the same, which gives ' 22. surculus to theartery, and 23. Another surculus running to the ramus, Num, 39, g 'of the nervus laryngeus. 24.24. Ramulus, front the third nervus mollis, Num. 20, which clcsceiub behind the trunk of the carotids, then curving round the same, appears in the exterior surface.—(Vide Num. 246.) 25. In this part the third nervus mollis is inflected around the infeiior part of the thyroid artery exte- riorly. 26. Ramulus, accompanying the thyroid artery. 7 5 7 27. Ramulus, of the third nervus mollis, Num. 20, as- cending exteriorly above the external carotis. 28. Its ramulus, approaching theartery. 29. Ramulus, which ascends further to the internal and . temporal maxillary artery. | 30. First ramus of the par vagum, called the glosso-^ pharyngcus, drawn a little upwards from tlie other, nerves. 31. Inscrtioj