Tlic process by wliicb the different ingredients of the blood are made part of the varions organs of the human body, is called Assimmii,atiox. Every assiminilating organ produces a specific change—as the stomach, the attracting powers of the lactoals, conveying chyle through the mesenteric glands to the receptaculum chyli, thoracic, duct, &c. and the con- version of chyle into blood by the assiminilating or- gans, the blood vessels, &c. Parts which did not belong to one another, provided they be similar, assimmilate, or unite—as muscle to muscle, bone to bone, as Mr. .1. Hunter and Bovina, and surgery practice long have proved. Healing of dis- united parts, by the first intention; and adhesions, after inflammation, all shew assimmilation and co- hesion, even of parts that were before detached—as thc))leura to the lungs, the surface of the liver to the diaphragm, which I have explored by dissections of Dr. Hooper, at the St. Marylebone Infirmary, in numerous instances: 1. Blood and arterial action supply all secretions. 2. Deposition of difl'erent particles supply new daily, from the oscula, or minute mouths of arteries ; attraction, cohesion and consolidation, follow, according to the supplies wanted to renew all parts, from the hardest to the softest. 3. The wasted parts are all c.xcluded by outlets; for the particles, forming the body, never remain stationary in health. There is aconstant loss, and a constant supply of new particles. 5. So that in a certain time, what particles formed the former man, no longer exist in the same body. 6. The form and identity of person continues similar to ori- ginal formation and figure, during healthful assimtni- lalion ; but defects in assinamilation and morbid changes in the blood may not only change external appearances, but be the cause of gieat deviations in mental inclowmcnts and disposition. 7. No jmrticics of the body, contained heretofore, exist at certain periods.—Man, tlicrefore, physically consi- dered, is not the same man he was Which might furnish a curious argument in law. S. The defective assimilation and rc|)aration of the aissimi- lating organs, loads, in old age, to defects in the natu- ral, vital, and animal functions; and, lastly, is pro- ductive of death, even without any accidental causes, as acute diseases, &c. which may prove fatal at any time of life. DECOMPOSITION AND PUTREFACTION OF ' ANI.MAL BODIES AFTER DEATH. The spontaneous destruction of animal bodies, after death, is denominated putrijaction; which Beecher,Stahl,Boyle, Beal, Sir J. I’ringle, Maebrido, and others, have des- cribed with important experiments, and observations; 1. Animal substances require moisture, and a certain degree of heat, for the putrelactive process. 2. Animals may be kept long in a freezing tempciaturc, without change; and ice, packed with fish, or other animal substances, prevent change for a considciable journey. • VYe had shocking instances of Marylebone, where putrid lever was almost constant: influence; uiHiiy nurses, and others—thouj'h many were saved by spirited t See Schola Mcdicirue, Latin Edition, where the Egyptian and PUTREFACTION IN THE AIR. 1. The colour becomes gradually paler, audits conslstencci diminishes. 2. FIcsli softens, and a serious matter exsudes, or sweats out. 3. The texture of tlie part becomes relaxed, and its organi- zation destroyed. 4f. It gradually acquires a disagreeable smell; and as the sub- stance sinks down, and is diminished in bulk, its smell | becomes stronger and ammoniacal. d 5. The matter efl’ervesces with acids, and if enclosed some little time, converts syrup of violets, green. 6. If the air be admitted, the nrinouk exhalation is dissipated, and a peculiar putrid odour is spread around with impetuosity, a smell of the most insupportable kind, ^ which lasts long, and pervades every place, affecting J the bodies of living animals, after the manner j of a ferment, capable of altering the fluids.—This J smell is corrected by ammonia. € 7. When the matter is volatilized, the putrefactive process be- 1 comes ACTIVE a second time, and the substance sud- | denly swells up, becomes filled with bubbles of air, and soon after subsides again, smelling horribly. 8. The colour changes, and the fibrous texture of the flesh is scarcely distinguishable, and the whole is changed into a soft brown, or greenish matter, of the consistence of a poultice, whose odour is faint, nauseous, and 1* very active on the bodies of living animals, producing putrid complaints.* i 9. The odoiant principle gradually loses its force, the sub- stance becomes deeper coloured, and rather delique- scent ; and being rubbed between the fingers, breaks into a coarse powder, like earth. 10. This is the last state of putrefaction, but requires a considerable time before animal substances assume this form.—Fourcrop. PRODUCE OF THE DECOMPOSITION. 1. Hydrogen gas, holding sulphur, phosphorus, and carbon in solution. 2. Ammonia, water, carbonic acid, and perhaps azotic gas. 3. Nitric acid seems, in some cases, to be formed, and emitted. 4. The earthy residuum consists of fixed parts of the animal substance, mixed with charcoal, oil, and ammonia. PUTRIFACTION UNDER THE EARTH. 1. Proceeds more slowly; but difficult to ascertain. 2. The abdomen bursts, and emits a horridly foetid and nau- seous gas; at the same time, a dark coloured liquid flows out. 3. When many be buried together, the soft parts are dimi- nished in size, and converted into a saponaceous matter, by their parts acting one on the other. This was first observed in 1786', at the burial-ground of the Innocents, at Pans.—Fourcrop, An. dc Chiin. v. 154. 4. There are various modes of preventing animal putre- faction, which come under the head of embalming dead bodies, f PATHOLOGY, the destructive effects of the poor buried together, covered with long folding doors, near the Old Infirinary, and the worthy Mr Varenne, apothecary, and his wife, fell victims to its baiiefol inodes of cure ailopted.—Sec Tnatiscs on Putrid Sore Threat, ^c. modern 'Methods of Emlalming arc fully explained.