( “7 ) THE SPINE, It is a bony column in the posterior part of the trunk, ex- tending from the great occipital foramen to the os sacrum. COMPOSITION. Of twenty-four vertebras. DIVISION Of each vertebra into a body, and seven apophyses; the body is thick, and forms the anterior part of the vertebrae. THE SEVEN APOPHYSES ARE 1. The spinous, which projects at the posterior part. 2. Two superior oblique. 3. Two inferior oblique. 4. Two transverse, which are at the sides. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. The cavity, containing the medulla spinalis, or spinal marrow, which extends from the occipital bone to the posterior surface of the os sacrum, 2. The lateral foramina, of which there are twenty-four, and through which the spinal nerves pass out. CONNECTION Of the vertebra; is double ; 1. With the body of the next vertebra, by synchondrosis. 2. The oblique apophyses of one-vertebra are connected with the apophyses of the next, by arthrodia, USE OF THE SPINE Is to support the body and head; to contain and defend from injury the spinal marrow. THE FIRST VERTEBR.E OF THE NECK. This is likewise called Atlas. 1. It has neither body, nor spinous apophyses. 2. Instead of apophyses, it forms an anteiior and posterior arch. 3. The anterior arch surrounds the dentiform process of the second vertebra. 4. Instead of oblique apophyses, it has two articulating sinuses, which receive the condyles of the' occipital bone. 5. It is connected with the head superiorly, with the second vertebra by an oblique apophysis, and by the odon- toid process of the second vertebra, or dentator. SECOND CERVICAL VERTEBR.®. This is likewise called Axis, Epistropheus, or Dentator; its pe- culiarities are the odontoid, or tooth-like process on the superior part of its body, which articulates in a small cavity of the anterior arch of the atlas, and is retained in its place by a transverse ligament; and is considerably strengthened by another ligament to the great occipital foramen. THE CERVICAL VERTEBRA. Each of the other cervical vertebra; have a foramen in their transverse apophyses, giving passage to the ascending vertebral arteries. THE DORSAL VERTEBRAE Are distinguished by the following peculiarities: 1. At the side of the body of each, there is a fovea in the middle, which, when both bodies are joined, form a surface for the larger head of the rib. 2, At the top of the transverse apophyses, there is a super- ficial fovea for the lesser head of the rib. THE LUMBAR VERTEBRAE. The most considerable motion of the spine is between the last vertebra of the back, and the first of the loins. THE CAVITY OF THE CHEST. COMPOSITION CONSISTS OF THIRTY-SEVEN BONES: 12 Dorsal vertebrm. 24 Ribs, ] Sternum, or breast-bone. USE. To contain and protect the vital viscera, and the organs of respiration. THE RIBS. SITUATION IS OBLIQUE, Going from the dorsal vertebrae to the sternum. SHAPE, Is semicircular. NUMBER, Is twenty-four; twelve on each side. GENERAL DIVISION Into seven true, which are connected with the sternum; and five false, which are not connected with it. II b PARTICULAR