XU HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Si^ quid igitur vix in millcsimo corpora aliquando decipit id notam non fiabet, crim per innumerabiles homines respondeat. “ Est itaque Medicince Jidcs, qvx multo sevpius, perque nmlto plures cegros prodest.” Therefore, such peculiar phaanomena aro to be registered amongst fortuitous occurrences, which no man can foresee with certainty, unles; he had before known the natural idiosyncracy of the person; for which reason, Celsus observes, that a Physician, accustomed to his patients, is preferable to a stranger. This is the reason, and a just one, why a Physician, long knowing the constitutions of his patients, will prescribe more judiciously, if a man of abilities, than those who are not accustomed to their individual peculiarities; and it well becomes a prudent Physician, always to accurately enquire into all particulars, or he may err, though pursuing the best general modes of cure, owing to contra-indications. ^Vhen speaking of Egyptian Medicine, we mentioned their practice, of different men, of confining their attention to particular diseases, being sanctioned by severe laws ; and they could not deviate from this method, without danger of punishment. Another source of information was, the vigilant industry of the ancients in observing the phenomena and cv( nts of diseases . they not only took particular notice of the sex, age, temperament, strength, and former habits of the patient, but also of the various circumstances of the disease as its beginning, increase, or height, decrease, and termination ; how Nature as.sisted herself in many cases' and liberated the patient from the complaint by a crisis, or perceptible evacuation of supposed morbific matter. They also minutely examined the urine, fajces, respiration, situation, or manner of lying ; tongue, eyes, skin, and abdomen. Examples of this kind abound, not only in the first and third books of the Epidemics of Hippocrates; but in Ais other works, particularly Coacce Prcenotioncs, and Book of Prognostics. How I have inculcated the necessity of examining and penetrating into the various constitution of patients, may be seen in most of the practical writings. This knowledge tramples all hypothetical and speculative systems under foot. We have already noticed, that various remedies were described by the ancients in the tabulae, or pictures, dedicated to their gods in the temples, and likewise some of the most approved compositions left them by will; so that even in the time of Hippocrates, many simple medicines were in use, and several compounds—as may be seen in Le Clerc’s History of Medicine, Part HI. Cap. XXIV. & XXV. In ancient times. Medicine was practised by priests in the temples ; and it was their interest and care to keep it a secret, under the veil of religion: therefore they made use of surprising tricks and deceptions, quite irrelevant to the purpose, to delude the ignorant; and it did not I’equire much art to deceive the afflicted, who were already rendered timid by their complaints. Thus they endeavoured to make Medicine private and family emolument, transmitted from father to son, and kept every thing under the serious cloak of religion; but, in fact, they were continually meeting privately, to drink and carouse: and as they [’pronounced the oracles instead of the gods, so tliey received, for the deities, the rich presents, and choice delicacies, brought by the grateful patients, and consumed them in private conviviality, and Bacchanalian c.\cesses. It is certain, that they did not even prescribe the most simple remedy, without the parade of religious ceremonies, and fabulous histories, abounding in superstition, of which an example may be seen, at this day; in the Tiberian Temple of .Slsculapius at Rome, and founded in the time of the Emperor Antoninus, containing Four Histories of Diseases, and their Cures, thus written ; The Jirst—“ A man, named Caius, lately received an answer from the oracle, to advance up to the altar, and^ go “ from the right to the left side, then to put his five fingers upon it, take them off, and apply to his eyes, by which “ he presently recovered his sight, amidst a great concourse of people, that rejoiced, and congratulated him on such “ a miraculous cure," which cunning dictated, and vulgar credulity credited. Every one must see, that this cure was only feigned, and totally superstitious, though highly extolled. The second—“ The god delivered an oracle to the son of one Lucius, labouring under pleurisy, and not expected to “ survive, desiring him to approach the altar, take some ashes from it to mix them with wine, and apply to his side. He “ recovered, and gave public thanks to the god. The people were extremely joyous, and congratulated him.” This cure is perfectly natural; for ashes abound in alcaline salt, whieh dissolving in the wine, forms a very powerful solvent; and the ashes of every vegetable produces the same; nor is it at all necessary for them to be taken from the altar. Tie