( 28 ) f PLATE XXVI. Plexus of the Cerebrum, The greatest portion of the anterior and posterior part of the cerebrum, or brain, removed to the posterior end of the lateral ventricle, to shew the uncovered and perfect velum in- jected, &c. AAA. Medulla cerebri •, of which more will be said hereafter. B. Part of the cerebellum; in general the lobes of the the cerebellum are two, alike and equal, which a falx from the dura membrane divides into two parts.— Some divide the lobes that are somewhat deeper than a furrow into three lobules. C. Vermis, D. Corpus callosum. E E. Arteries of the corpus cut. F. Middle part of the anterior cerebrum confusedly ex- pressed between the corpora striata. G G. Corpora striatal obscurely drawn, are two long cine- ritious eminences, elevated in the basis of the anterior ■ventricle: they were so called from the external ap- pearance, exhibiting many longitudinal roundish white streaks; they are composed externally of a cortical, and internally of the medullary substance of the brain ; together united they concur to the forma- tion of the crura of the cerebrum. II iH. Thalamus of the optic nerves. J,I. The double semicircular centre, or limbus of the stri- ated body of Willis: white streaks produced from the anterior comMissure, and frequently from the crura of the fornix, but especially from the medulla itself, be- fore the thalami of the brain. The anterior end is va- rious, and is continued with one large fibre of the fornix of the anterior crus ; the other part before that crus, subjected to the corpus callosum of the cere- brum, is lost; another, lastly, in the posterior surface of the larger cowmmKra. KK. The/or/crior crura of ihejornix reflected. Lower than the corpus callosum, and forwarder, more short and slender, the rest parallel, the other a medullary arch, which is called Jornix. The middle base of it is simple, as of the corpus cal- losum, it lies upon the interior convex jugum ; yet as a curtain from the pia mater it intercedes the medul- lary collides, which are called the tbalami opticorum nervorum: these are two posterior protuberances of ’ the ventricles of the cerebrum, white and termina- ting in the optic nerves. The anterior and posterior terminate in two crura. The anterior go behind the anterior commissura of the cerebrum, under the thalami of the optic serves. The posterior crura distribute themselves on the hippocampus, but not alwa^ s. LL. Plexus cboroides I within the anterior and lower pdrl of each of the ventricles begins as the vascular plexus, called cboroides, included in the pia mater ' only, it lying naked in the rest of the cavity of the skull, formed of a great number of small arteries, to- gether with little veins, originating from a larger trunk ; all which vessels, joined together by the pw mater, resemble a curtain variously folded. Fium this plexus, probably, proceeds the internal warmth of the brain, with its exhalation and absorption. The choroid plexuses become very broad, where the anterior ventricles of the brain begin to <iescend ; and thence, contracting gradually downward, they project their extremities to the ends of the anterior ventricles, covered only with the pia mater. M. Some glands in the dura mater of the tentorium first discovered by Haller. NNN. Origin of the velum, or plexus, interposed to the cboroides from the pia muter of the posterior lobe of ' the cerebrum. O. The anterior end of that velum in the choroid plex- uses. P. Glandula pinealis; obscurely appearing, subjected to this middle plexus. It is a small conoid eminence of a cineritious colour, lying on the quadrageminte eminences, joined with the basis of the medulla of thtj cerebrum. Behind the third ventricle, and superior of the ce- rebrum, are four eminences, called nates and testes ; the pineal gland is lying on these, covered upwards with a great series of vessels, which are a continua- tion of the choroid plexus. Q. The great veins of Galen, the right trunk : Galen not only hath seen the vein, but the division of it, and he calls it a w/m, the division of which fills the co- I narium, the declivity also about the conarium he ob- j served. R. The trunk of it is alwaj-s present. S S. Branches of the superior artery of the cerebellum ^ spread through that viscus. T. Surculus of its artery thrown between the plexus of the choroides. V. The other surculus, or sprig. XX. Arteries from the profound, or deep cerebral, to the same plexus. YY. Anterior branches of the same plexus, they go out in the corpora striata, lightly expressed in this figure of the cornu of the posterior ventricle, of uncertain length—short, and sometimes longer they are found ; i which seems to arise from the foot of the hippocam- t pus ; yet as a fossa separated from the foot of the hip- pocampus. This oval tubercle is used to be, as with one end bent inwardly.