( 152 ) 3. The JN THE MOUTH. IN THE THORAX. The saliva, or spittle, which is secreted by the salivary glands, and carried into the mouth by an excretory ' duct from each, for the purposes of mastication. IN THE FAUCES. The mucus of the glands, fauces, and oesophagus, is secreted by muciparous glands of those parts, to render deglu- tition less difficult. IN THE EYES. TIIEKE AUE THREE HUMOURS OF THE BULB: 1. The aqueous humour, contained in the anterior part of the bulb. 2. The chrystalline lens, in the anterior part of the vitreous humour, and 3. The vitreous humour, situated in the posterior part of the bulb. OUTSIDE OF THE BUT.B ABE 1. The tears, which are secreted by the lachrymal gland, carried through its excretory ducts to the internal part of the upper eye-lid, and eft'used over the external surface of the bulb. The tears are afterwards absorbed by the puncta lachiymalia, carried by the lachrymal canals into tlie lachrymal sac, and thence through the nasal duct into the cavity of the nose. 2. The fluid of the Meibomian glands, secreted by the seba- ceous glands in the tarsus of the eye-lids. IN THE EARS. J. The cerumen, or wax of the ears, which is secreted by the sebaceous glands in the external meatus auditorius. 2. The auditory fluid, contained in the vestibulum and semi- circular canals of the internal ear. IN THE NECK. The secretions of the submaxillary and jugular glaitds; also of the thyroid gland, which is gelatinous. IN THE BREASTS. The milk in the breasts of child-bearing women, is secreted by the glands of the breast, and passes through their excretory ducts into the papilhe. The mucus of the larynx, trachea, bronchia;, which is se* creted by the glands of tliese parts, and frequently coughed up, when redundanr, and irritating. The juice of the thymus gland, which is white. The vapour of the pericardum and cavity of the thorax, which is secreted by the exhalent arteries. The perspirable fluid of the lungs, which exhales from their- c.xhalcnt arteries. IN THE ABDOMEN. 1. The gastric juice, secreted in the stomach by exhalents. 2. The enteric juice, secreted in the intestines by the exha- lent arteries. 3. The pancreatic juice, secreted by the glands of the pan- creas, and carried through its excretory duct into the du®denum for the purposes of digestion. 4. The bile, a yellow bitter juice, secreted in the substance of the liver, and partly goes through the hepatic duct into the duodenum, and partly regurgitates into the gall-bladder. The bile in the gall-bladder becomes thicker and more acrid, and flows into the duodenum through the ductus cho- ledochus, 5. The mucus of the stomach and intestines, secreted by their muciparous glands to lubricate them. 6. The chyme is a pultaceous mass, which is formed from food partly digested, and protruded into the duode- num; from this the chyle is formed. 7. The foeces of the intestines are a foejid mass, remaining after the digestion of food, and absorption of chyle; they are contained in the large intestines, and fmally ejected by the anus. I IN THE URINARY BLADDER. 1. The urine is an aqueous acrid humour, secreted in the kidneys, carried through the ureters into the bladder, and evacuated by the urethra: it consists of water, earth, and salt. Exhalent arteries, likewise, pour forth a vapourous fluid. IN THE GENITALS OF MEN. 1. The semen, which is a liquor secreted in the testicles, by the spermatic arteries, and carried through the vas deferens of gach into the vcsiculse seminales ; and, at the time of coitus, is ejected into the urethra through the ductus cjaculatorius. 2, The mucus of the urethra, which is secreted by the glands of the urethra.