•HISTORY OF MEDICINE VI Nor is the avithority of riiny, in this point, of any importance : who says, that the kings of E"vpt opened the bodies of the dead themselves, to discover the cause of disease; for that happened in far later times—in the reigns of the immortal Ptoletnys, who Certainly encouraged the study and industry of Physicians, by large premiums, and procured bodies for them: but, on the other hand it appears, that the Egyptians were very little acquainted with anatomical facts, from their whimsical suppositions, that the nerve of the ring-finger went to the heart; and that the heart gradually continued to increase until the liftieih year; and, afteiwards, to decrease, annually, in the same proportion—which fancies are handed down as real dogmata of the Egyptians. Besides, as Diog. Laertius proves—They taught, that the bodies of living animals consisted of four elements: and Seneca sa)fs, they used to divide each element into male and female. They also believed in the influence of Planets upon the human body; as well as good and evil devils, who were to be worshipped: having the power of restoring health, and inflicting disease, they were to be appeased by verses, (incantations) that all disease arose from them; and that peculiar good and evil spirits (Genii) presided over each particular part. As to medical matters, the Egyptians possessed, besides other milder remedies, Nepetitbcs, or Medicine against Anger and Sadness, so much celebrated by Homer: to which the Poet attributes such powers, that whoever drank some of it, mixed with wine, could not experience Sorrow through the whole day—not even if his father or mother were to die; or if he saw a brother, or any intimate esteemed friend, stabbed in his presence. The Poet says, that Helen took the Nepenthes, in Egypt, from Polydamna, wife of Thon. Diodorus Siculus says, that in his time, the women at Thebes, in Egypt, used the same medicine, which was probably an opiate. We should likewise mention the jEsculapius, or Asclepius of the Egyptians, who was the scholar, (discipulus) some say, the relation of Hermes; for he was received into the number of gods, and worshipped every where with divine honours. 'J’his person must not be mistaken for the .disculapius of the Greeks, who is of more modern date, and was present at the expedition of the Argonauts; but some doubt, whether he was entirely a fletious person, or only the .^sculapius of the ^Tgyptians, changed: and although Cicero adduces three separate iEsculapii; the first of which was son of Apollo, and invented surgical instruments and bandages; another, who was brother of Mercury, and killed by a flash of lightning; and the third, was the first that gave purgatives, and drew out the teeth : yet M. Le Clerc and Schultz believe there was only one Phoenician, or Egyptian iEsculapius.—However, 1 am more willing to believe the authority of Cicero in this respect. But, above all, the following are most proper to be considered, and worthy our notice, in establishing a knowledge of ancient Egyptian Medicine. iEsculapius, of the Egyptians, and the other fathers of Physic, are said to have lived soon after the flood. The expedition of Argonauts was not undertaken till eleven hundred years afterwards; and this was about fifty years before the siege of Troy. During this long space of time, there is nothing in the Egyptian Annals of Medicine, worth mentioning: but the History of Grecian Medicine begins with the Government of the Argivi ; and the Greeks seem to have received their knowledge of this, as well as many other sciences, from the Egyptians, after a mutual intercourse had been established between them. Mclampus, an Argive, son of Amythao and Aglaia, seems to have been the first Physician amongst the Greeks; for, although Celsus said that jEscuIapius was celebrated in Greece as the most ancient Author on Medicim, yet, if Chronology be true, Melainpus must have been more ancient than iEsculapius, if the latter were present in the expedition of the Argonauts; but .Melampus, the former, is said to have lived one hundred and fifty years prior to that period: but, if both be true, he must have been a very old man, and alive at the time of the Argonauts, to have been abic to take care of Iphiclus, his companion, in the Argonautic expedition. This Melampus was a good Poet, a Shepherd, Physician, and Prophesier: after observing that his goats were always purged, after eating hellebore, discovered its purgative effects, and using it as a remedy tor men, he cured the insane daughters of Proetus with it, and called it by his own name, which has remained from that time, and is now known by the name ^lelaml>odlum. ‘ He vvaa well lewarded for his ingenuity, by acquiring one of the daughters as a wife, with a third part of the kingdom for bimsilf; and another lor his biother Bianti, with a similar allotment of territory. He seems to hafe been the first who gave purgatives; on which account, Servius says, he was called Cathartes, or Purgei*.