3#XX HISTORY OF medicine; '^Wirathe hns ailvarced concerning the liver, and its U£C, is in general confused, (q)^ he had do conception of the eVdvey. ance of the bile into the intestines^ but imagined the liver to be a viscus that made tlic blood, and in consequence cafldd it the fOunttiin of nature. His notions were very loose and uncertain, concerning the secretion of the bile, though he seems to think it performed by the liver. (r) The arteries he knew had a pulsation, but understood not how the blood was ciixtulatcu. Indeed it was impossible that the most common observer could have not perceived a thing so evident, as the beating of the arteries; because they are plainly to be seen, in very thin or consiunptive people. All the passages produced by Vander- linden, and others'; concerning the circulation of the blood, amount only to a proof, that Hippocrates kmiw that the blood circulated ; (s) but had not the most distant notion how this salutary action was performed. The following are the principal passages, collected from different parts of his works on this subject. The veins diffused through the body, supply it with spirit, fluidity, and motion, whilst many of them branch out, from one; The liver is the root of the veins, f'tj und the heart of the arteries: from these the blood and spirits flow; and through these the heat is diffused. If he recover, or get the better of his disease, so that the blood becomes warm, (u) whether by means of such things as arc administered, or by itself; it foments, is attenuated; and put into motion, carries spirits along with it, despumates itself; and is separated from the bile, and so the patient becomes sound. But whilst the blood docs not move, it cannot be but the body- must remain in a state of rest and sluggishness. If the coldness and coagulation of the blood, be perfect, the patient dies. For the blood bcingwarmed and attracted, those things which are in the body perform a quick circulation; and then the rest of the body is purged by means of the spirits; (x) then that which is compact, becoming warm, is attenuated, and eliminated from the body through the skin : and this is called awarm sweat; and after this excretion, the blood is restored to its natural state, and the fever remits. All these symptoms appearing, are the sign of health ; (if) and that the body together with all its functions arc sound. But rivers not flowing in their usual manner, may be compared to the circulation of the blood, when they overflow their tanks; they resemble the excess ; and when they cease to fill their channels, they resemble the deficiency.of the blood. For when the circulation is slow, the senses are lost, by little and little; f^Zil and those who are most acute, are a little put out of order, by reason of the slowness of the circulation. For the blood itself being naturally warm, and propelled by a certain force, cannot soon make its way through a narrow passage \ (a) since it may meet with many hinderances and obstructions, whence fevers, pains, and other disorders arise. The last passage, has a strong resemblance to the Boerhaavian theory of fevers, which he thought was chiefly ovving to ob* structions in the capillary vessels. Hippocrates's notions of the distribution of the veins arc imperfect* His dividing* the intestines into two, ('AJ has no appearance of method, or an acquaintance with the parts. 'I'hc structure, or use, of the diaphragm, (c) he undci’stood not. His fixing the seat of ihe soul, in the left ventricle of the heart, (d) is a memorable example of that inherent inclination in the mind of men, to search after incomprehensible things. And it may be' observed, the like siiccess-has attended the labours of all future enquirers from his time; (e) for, after thousands of pages have been writteny speculation heaped on speculation, disputes supported and refuted, and innumerable absurdities obtruded on the world ; these speculative and deep searchers for the scat of the soul, have left the subject involved in its original inexplicable darkness and uncertainty. The heart and lungs, he imagined, received part of our drink. This is absolutely false, and he never could have ex- amined the anatomical structure of these parts, or he mus.t have known the impossibility of liquor passing either to the heart, or through the trachea to the lungs. He (q) The use of the liver he understood not. (t^ Dcaliinento. (y) De Insojuniis. Division of the intestines, not methodical, (e) lU-success atteuding enquities concerning the (r) He knew the arteries had a pulsation, ('it) De morbis. lib. 2. (z) He diceta, lib. i. (c) Underslood notthe use of the diaphragm, seat of the soul. Q') His notion of drinlr going.t (i) But not how the blood circulated. (x) De diseta, lib. 2. - , (a) De flatibus, lib. vii. (d) His notion of thescat ofthe soub. the lungs and heart from tlie mouib'faise..