INTRODUCTION, &c. xiii Plate II. shews the constituent parts of the human body, with the description in Greek and Latin, now page 4. Plate III. is of the bones and their junctures, connections, &c. with Greek and Latin descriptions, now page 5. Plates IV. and V. shew the front and back view of the human skeleton, with Greek and Latin descriptions, nowp. 6. Plate VI. describes various bones with Greek and Latin descriptions, now page S. Plate VII shews a side view of the human skeleton, a foetal skeleton, with the difterences between the infant and adult, and the teeth, now page p. Plate VIII. exhibits the parts composing muscles, cxa- ' mined with a microscope, as an introduction to myology, p 10. Plate IX. a front view of the muscles, the references in the opposite single page, with the names, origin, insertion, and vse, in three columns distinctly exemplified, so that the student with the greatest facility, especially if he dissect with the plates before him, must obtain a perfect knowledge of all muscular motion, now page 11. Plates X. XI. XII. XIII. XIV. XV. XVI. shew the se- cond, third, and fourth, layer of muscles, in the fore and back view, with references in single pages to each plate, p. 13, &rc. Plate XVII. A view of the muscles, of the whole body laterally, now page ip, with reference plate. Plate XVIII. shews various muscles not reducible under the former nine plates. After this the myology is com- pleted with the manner of dissecting muscles, and the dif- ferent subjects necessary to be chosen by the anatomist for preparing the bones, muscles, nerves, injections, &c. with many useful rules to be observed in anatomical studies and dissections. This is in the Latin edition. Angiologia, or the knowledge of vessels, which are arteries, sanguiferous veins, and lymphatic vessels; these are all perspicuously exhibited in three colums, in a manner entirely new. Plates XIX. XX. arc front and back views of the arteries of the whole body, as they appear when injected, p. 21. &c. Plate XXI. is a view of all the veins of the whole human body, with a reference in one page shewing the origin in extremities, their various directions and terminations, &c. in the manner the blood passes from all the veins to tlie cava^ from a very fine drawing of Mr. Paillou’s, p. 23. Plate XXII. is of the lymphatic glands and lacteal ves- sels, by which is shewn how- nutrition is performed: by lacteal absorption and passage of the chyle to the thoracic duct, subclavian vein, &c. p. 24. Plate XXIII. is a whole elegant figure drawn by Paillou, representing the lymphatic glands and the lymphatic vessels of the whole human body, explained in three columns under the heads of no7ne and seats of glands—vasa inferentia and vasa efferentia, by which a complete knowledge of the whole lymphatic system, its diseases, &c. is easily acquired, p. 25. ADENOLOGIA, or an EXPLICATION of the GLANDS, Contains all the ancient opinions and modern discoveries of the glands of every species, their situations and uses, in the Latin edition, but more concise in this. A conspectus of all the glands in three columns, imder the heads of name and seat, habit, func- tion. This mode of exhibition is entirely new, and greatly abridges the science of Adenologia. NEUROLOGIA, or DOCTRINE of the NERVES. The ancient and modern opinions of the nerves, containing extracts in Greek and Latin from Rufus Ephesius, Herophilus, Erasistratus, Galenus, Oribasius, Vesalius, Eustachius Leeuweti- hock, Willis, Vieussens, Winslow^ Monro, sen. Whytt, Haller, Meckel, Zinn, Moscati, Pater dela Torre, Prochaska, Alex. Monro, junior. Walker, and some new ideas of the present author on the nerves, &c. taken from the treatise on nervous diseases, &c. Plate XXIV. is a complete section, as large as life, of Plate XXV. shews the basis of the brain, or cerebrum, the basis of the cranium, shewing the origin and direction of with the vessels, p. 27. the nerves to the sensitive organs, &c. through the foramina Plate XXVI. The plexus of the cerebrum, corpus callo- from the Lrain^ p. 26.. sum.