PLATE XXIir. The Lymphatic Glands and Absorbents. Xanie and Situation of the Glands,^c. Rcte; it arises in the extremity of each foot •■and hand : where the arteries terminate, out of the tela cellulosa originate absor- bent lymphatics, which, when they enter glands, are called • inferent; but when they leave glands, efferent vessels, in pur- suing their course towards the thoracic duct. The tihialgland) in the middle of the tibia The popliteal glands; under the poples. The inferior inguinal glands; they consti- tute the scat of pestilental buboes. The superior inguinal glands ; venereal bu- boes arise in them. The iliac glands ; in the pelvis near the ar- teries and iliac veins. The mesenteric glands; are innumerable through the whole mesentery. The renal and atrabiliary glands. The receptaculum cbyli, or ductus Pecque- tianus, discovered by John Pecquet, 16'49. It is often deficient. , The primary thoracic duct; is the princi- pal trunk of the absorbent system. ft The right absorbent, or secondary duct; . I arises from four large lymphatic trunks. The glands of the stomach, or gastric glands ; are four or six. The hepatic glands; a great plexus near the vena porta;. The cardiac, or pericardiac glands; near the rise of the carotid artery, i The glands of the lungs; are rarely found in the substance of the lungs. The brachial glands; in the flexure of the arm. The axillary glands; under the clavicle, and in the axilla ; they swell from a cancer of the breast. The glands in the face; near the zygomatic process and parotid glands. The cervical glands; are very numerous j the seat of scrophula and struma. Inferent Vessels. The small vessels cannot be seen by the naked eye, cm account of the great exility of their origins. Injections from the trunk to the lesser vessels do not penetrate, the valves oppose them: mercury easily proceeds from the small trunks to the larger vessels, and points out the direction. In the ends of the toes. In the parts situated under the knee. The crural vessels swell wlicn pus is ab- sorbed from ulcers of the foot. The vessels come from the genitals and nates. Receive the lymph from the inferior parts, and from the pelvis. Receive the lymph from the lower extre- mities, chyle from the intestines, &c. From the kidneys and atrabiliary capsules. Is composed of two trunks of absorbents, and one of the lacteals within the diaphragm. ^ Receives the chyle and lymph of the ab- domen, and lower extremities, from the receptacle. The lymph comes from the right side of the liver, diaphragm, heart, lungs, head, &c. They are 1. The coronary vessels. 2, The left gastric. 3. The right gastric. The vessels on the liver are distinguished by several divisions. 1. The right coronary vessels of the heart; 2. the left. Receive the lymph from the lungs. 1. The feas/Z/c vessels in the hand, from the palm and little finger ; 2. the ce~ phalic from the thumb and index; 3, the median from the other fingers. The vessels come from the head, neck, arms, scapula, breasts, heart, lungs, and liver. Several vessels come from the internal canthus of the eye, from the nose and lips. The vessels come from the external and. internal parts of the head and neck. H Efferent Vessels. The small vessels, united with pthers, make branches, by the union ot many of which they become trunks, which at length arc terminated in th^tho- racic duct and subclavian veins, w hore they empty their chyle and l)nnph. Arc emitted to the popliteal glands. Proceed to the inguinal glands. Those vessels go to the iliac region and its glands. These vessels proceed as the above. Carry the lymph to the superior parts. Go into many trunks, and thence to the thoracic duct. Go to the receptaculum chyli. Where its dilatation ends, it is called the thoracic duct. Perforates the diaphragm, ascends (he thorax, exonerates itself in an angle of the left subclavian and jugular veins. This duct empties itself into the right subclavian and jugular veins. Go to the thoracic duct. Unite with the lymphatics of the omen- tum, spleen, and pancreas. They flow with the pyloric of the omen- tum and liver. They send the lymph to the pericardiac glands. Both flow and enter the thoracic duct. Empty themselves into the thoracic duct, or subclavian veins. They tend to the axillary glands, or the thoracic duct. On the left side they are exonerated in the primary or superior trunk; on the right side they are emptied into the secondary or inferior trunk. They descend to the neck, and unite with other cervical trunks. Two trunks, a right and left, flow into the subclavian veins.