INTRODUCTION, &c. XU ^ • Galiemis, IX. Isis and.Nemesis. A coin struck by the people of Smyrna. X. Galienus with Bacchus and /Esculapius, according to many opinions; but it appears to me to be .disculapius and Hygeia. PLATE VI. I. Galienus with iEsculapius. ‘ In the coin struck by the Sidetes—and what shall we say to the plague, which is related to have been so dreadful under the Emperor Galienus at Rome, or in the cities of Achaia, in one day five millions of men died of a similar disease ? JEsculapius was then of the greatest assistance, and hence it is not wonderful that the Sidetes did stamp an im- pression of him on their coin. II. Quietus with Apollo the conservator. As Apollo pre- fers a branch of laurel to the arrows or bow, it is just to suppose that this refers to medical not warlike assistance; but more on this in Bergerus. III. Probus and Salus. IV. Dioclctianus with Isis. In this place I will premise in a few words, that the Isis of the Egyptians was the same with the Ceres of the Greeks, and hence the Egyptians, in the twelfth year of the Emperor Diocletian (for that is evident from the additional numeral letters L. IB. as Achilleus rebelled before the eighth year, and was overcome by Diocletian; the famine, or want, which came afterwards, this coin exhibits elegantly, &c. V. Isis with Horus. The Greeks, when they speak of Horus, always interpret him as Apollo. Thus Herodotus, lib. ii. c. 144. relates, Rpovloi'O(T»pi0? waiJot Tov AwoXXiwa £XXr,V:{ Hcus, the son of Osiris, whom the Greeks call Apollo, and c. 156. A»yv7fln‘ ^6 AttoXXwv fiSK ilpc?. And Apollo is also, in the Egyptian, called Horus. VI. Isis. VII. Apis embalmed according to the manner of the Egyptians, as may be seen in many real antique mummies that have reached our time. VIII. Osiris, or the author of health. In Diodorus, lib. i. p. 11. they say that these gods (the sun and moon) govern the universe, nourishing and performing all things, at three periods of the year, in an invisible man- ner performing a circuit, viz. in the spring, summer, autumn. Which, although they have a very different nature, yet make the year with the best consent efficient, or with an excellent consent every thing good is produced by the changes in the year, &c. These plates shew the mythological credulity of the Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans, with the dignity of their medical deities, whom they reverenced with as much faith, fear, and hope, as any religious sectaries since their times. Irreverence to their gods was punished with death, or uni- versal detestation, as Socrates experienced, and as may be seen in the orations of Demosthenes^ when he wished to render an enemy odious in the sight of the people, &c. After the History, and a Chronological Table, giving, in a short view by columns, the periods when the principal philosophers, physicians, and other eminent personages, flourished; commencing from the supposed beginning of the world to the Peloponesian war, from that time to Justinian, and from thence to the present time. A Conspectus of the w'hole work appears; which is, of itself, a sliort system of anatomy and physiology. IN THE ANATOMICAL PART- Plate I. contdi-ns a very elegant male and female figure, drawn by Mr. Edwards, of the Royal Academy, and ea- graved by that excellent artist Mr. Sharp, to explain the ex- ternal parts, &c. page 3. Plate *1. Two figures with the references to the former plate opposite to the page of Creek description, and referring to the Batin description, &c. in the Latin edition; but in the present English there is no double description. Plate