( i84 ) tion, the livi<l in gangrene, and ecebymosis, the black in necrosis and caries. DISEASES OF HEAT. The natural heat of any part may become improper, by being increased or diminished. E.xcess of heat in infiammations, and, in some contagious putrid and yellow fevers, is observed, and Defect of heat, in anasarca, syncope from ha;morrhage, or in debility in the minute arterial system. DISEASES OF THE SURFACE. The surface of any part may become improper, by its smoothness, or roughness. A morbid smoothness is seen in baldness. An unnatural roughness of surface arises from pustules, vesicles, papillaj, scurf, &cc. DISEASES OF GRAVITY. The natural gravity of any part, may become unnatural by excess or diminution. An excess of gravity is perceived in an inflamed and indurated part: from fluid deposited in the cellular structure, congelating, &c. A defect of gravity is evident in emphysema of the whole body, hence putrid bodies swim in water, on account of the extrication of the fixed ajr, or what is now called carbonic acid gas. DISEASES of'THE FLUIDS, humours of our body may become improper. 1. In quantity. 2. cohesion. 3. acrimony. 4. degeneration. 5. mixture. O'. situation. 7. retention. 8. excretion. 9. secretion. 10. motion. DISEASES OF QUANTITY. I'he quantity of blood may be improper, by excess or defect. An excess is called plethvra, and A defect keneangia. FlelAura, or an abundance of good blood, is divided. 1. Into universal, when the blood abounds in every part of the body; and partial when in any particular part only. , 2. Into true, when there is abundance of real blood; and spurious, when it is only an expansion, and rarefac- tion of blocd. Keneangia, or a deficiency of good blood, may also be uni- versal or partial. DISEASES OF COHESION. A cohesion of the principles, which constitute the humours, may be unnatural by excess, defect, or separation. Excess of cohesion, is called thickness ; and defect of cohesion, is named thinness. The thickness of humours is twofold. 1. Simple thickness, which arises entirely from a diminished quantity of water. 2. Compound thickness, which is either glutinous, inflam- matory, atrabiliary, coagulated, or venereal. The thinness of humours is also double. 1. Simple thinness, arising only from too great a quantity of scrum, and 2. Compound thinness, which has some specific acrimony connected with it. A separation of these particles, which should adhere to- gether, is called a secession; thus, if the aqua, salt, oil, mucus, earth, or gelly only, separate from the common mass of blood, various morbid stales of the humours arise, and tumours are formed by this separation, &c. DISEASES OF ACRITUDE. Acritudes are impregnations of the humours, with some ir- ritating principle, or morbid mutation. Acritudes of the humours arc divided into common and specific. The common acritudes are, 1. An acid acritude, or an abundance of acid salt in the humours, as in the rickets, softening bones, &c. 2. An alkaline acritude, or too great a quantity of alkaline salt in the humours ; but this is nut so admissable as the former, though often supposed. 3. An ammoniacal acritude, or a too great abundance of a salt, which is natural to our humours. Neither this nor the last can be demonstrated in life. 4. A muriatic acritude, or an unnecessary quantity of com- mon salt in our bodies, as in long sea voyages, &c. The specific acritudes are, 1. The acritude of chronic diseases, as venereal, scorbutic, gouty, arthritic, rheumatic, scrophulous, scirrhous, cancerous, ulcerous, carious, scabious, tineous, le- prous, elephantiatic, herpetic plicous. I'hey all dif- fer, but their specific properties are not known. 2. 'file acritude of acute diseases, as variolous, morbillous, miliary, scarlatine, erysipelatous, petechial, pestilental carbunculous, gangrenous, putrid, intermitting fe- brile, or continual febrile. All these ditfer not only in causes, but effects, and appear- ances, which are more particularly specified in prac- tical medicine. DISEASES OF DEOEN ER ATI0 N, The spontaneous changes of humours, from a natural into a morbid slate; among these may be considered those degene-