( »8* ) 3. Symptomatology, or on tlic symptoms of diseases. 4. Semiolica, or on the signs of diseases. fi. Thcrapeutica, or on the cure of diseases. Therapeutics, are subdivided into three parts. 1. Hygiene, on the food and regimen of natural things in tlie human body. 2. Pharmacy, on medicines. 3. Surgery teaches how to cure diseases, by the hands and instruments. The Therapeutics will hereafter be pub- lished, and all the experience of near fifty years be unreservedly communicated. NOSOLOGY. Nosology is a science which points out the denomination, difl'erences, and divisions of diseases. A disease is a preternatural state cf any part. Diseases acquire names, from their disposition, first symptom, or promixate cause, or from their situation, as the cholic being usually in the colon, &c. &c. The primary division of diseases is, 1. Into simple diseases of the solids. 2. organic. 3. diseases of the fluids. SIMPLE DISEASES OF THE SOLIDS. Simple diseases of the solids are preternatural states of the power, which the fibres of our body exert. The primary strength of parts is, 1. Cohesion, 2. Elasticity, 3. Irritability, 4. Sensibility. DISEASES OF COHESION, CONCEIVED BY THE NEWTO* NIAN DOCTRINES OF ATTRACTION AND REPULSION. Cohesion, or the attraction of the elements, which constitute a fibre, can be unnatural in three ways, 1. By too small a cohesion. 2. too great a cohesion. 3. defect of cohesion. Too small a cohesion of the elements of the fibrillae cohesion, in the soft parts, is called laxity of fibres ; but in the bones it is named mollities. Cohesion of the elements of the fibrillas, when too consider- able in the soft parts, is called rigidity of fibres; but the same in the bones is named fragility. A defect, or loss of cohesion in the soft parts, is called tabes, but in the hard parts, it forms a powder. DISEASES OF ELASTICITY. The elasticity of elastic parts, constitutes a disease, by ex- cess or diminution. Excess of elasliclly, is called too great a contraction of fibrss. Defect of elasticity, is an inactive state of the fibres. . . DISEASES OF IRRITABILITY. Irritability of muscular fibres, can be improper by e.xcess, or defect, loo great, or too little mobility. Excess of irritability, is tuo great a mobility of the mus- cular fibres. Defect of irritability, is a torpid state of the muscular fibres. A preternatural contraction of muscular fibres, is called a spasm ; and a preternatural immobility, or inaction of them is paralysis. All these are applicable to all moveable parts. DISEASES OF SENSIBILITY. Excess of sensibility, is called pain, or an unpleasant sensation. Defect of sensibility, is named insensibility or anodynia. ORGANIC DISEASES OF THE SOLIDS. Organic diseases of the solids are preternatural states of the visible qualities, in the solid paits of our bodies. The visible qualities of the organs of our body are, number, diameter, magnitude, form, situation, connection, consistence, substance, colour, heat, smoothness, and gravity. DISEASES OF NUMBER, The number of any part may be improper, by excess, or defect. The number exceeds if their be six fingers, three testicles, a double penis, or two heads. The number is deficient if a finger, leg, arm, penis, or nose, be wanting. DISEASES OF DIAMETER. The diameter of vessels, or other cavities, may be improper by excess, or defect of their natural size. The diameter being increased, is called a morbid excess. The diameter of containing parts being diminished or obli- terated, is called a morbid narrowness. There are seven species of morbid excess. 1. jEumma, or a preternatural dilatation of the vessels, and other cavities, as in the true aneurism, varicose ves- sels, and the ascites. 2. Phlogosis, or a preternatural dilatation of all blood ves- sels, which brings on heat and redness, as may be seen in every inflammation and long erythema. 3. Anastomosis, or a preternatural dilatation of the orifices, or mouths of vessels, such as is observed in some hasmorrages, and in the rings of inguinal herniae. 4. Diapedesis, or a preternatural dilatation of pores in the sides of vessels, or cavities, which transude the hu- mours they ought to contain, as happens in every