( J75 ) At the third month, the abdomen begins to swell above the pubis, increasing more and more till the eighth month: at the fifth, a motion of the foetus is perceived, the orifice of the uterus becomes softer, thinner, and rounder; and, at the last month, it opens. The os uteri is tuberculatcd, during pregnancy. The thickness of the uterus remains nearly the same; the cartilages of the pelvis becomes softer; the vagina abounds in mucus. The time of pregnancy, allowed by Nature, is nine solar months; but, now and then, it is longer or shorter. USE OF PliEGNANCY. That the foetus may be surrounded, and come to maturity; to be able to bear the inconveniences of the air, and fit to support life. LABOUR. When the time of pregnancy is at an end, labour follows; the cause of wliich is not ihorouglily known. THE PHENOMENA WHICH PRECEDE, ACCOMPANY, AND FOLLOW IT, ARE AS UNDER: 1. The pregnant woman, for some days before delivery, feels slight pains about the loins, the belly descends a a little; the orifice of the uterus, which was almost obliterated, becomes larger, is found situated lower in the pelvis : she is more frequently excited to void urine; walks with greater difficulty ; and a tenacious viscid humour is discharged from tlie-vagina. DELIVERY IS KNOWN TO BE COMING ON, AS FOLLOW: 2. When labour begins, the woman is seized with pains about the loins, which return stronger at intervals ; the uterus and abdomen contract ; the orifice of the ' uterus enlarges more and more ; a bladder, containing the foetus and liquors, protrudes through the orifice, the top of the head of the foetus presses downwards in I. the liquor, and oblige the woman to take longer in- spirations ; the pulse becomes stronger and quicker; ^ the face turns red, and perspires; the parts of gene- I ration swell. I 3. All these gradually become more violent; at last the ( woman cRils out: duting her cries, a great quamity * of viscous humour comes from the vulva, which is J tinged with blood ; she feels a very violent tenesmus, ' which, in a great measure, keeps up her spirits.— Every effort of the body is used to expel the contents ' of the uterus; then a small portion of the liquor of the amnion is discharged, on the membranes being ruptured; soon afterwards, the head of the foetus descends a little out of the vagina, which is propelled more and more by the violent pains; the child then follows, with the remaining part of the fluid. 4. Thus, all the phaenomena suddenly cease, and a tempo- rary ease follows, which is short of continuance; for soon afterwards new pains come on, and the placenta, with the membranes and umbilical chord of the ovum are expelled, which should be drawn away gently with the hand; the delivery of the placenta is followed by a discharge of pure blood for some hours, which afterwards becomes serous or milky, and ia called the lochia. The. proximate cause which excites the labour pains at the ninth month is not known : whether does it proceed from the extrication and extreme extension of the filrres of the uterus, tlie quantity of collected fluids, or the weight of the foetus ? The parts which assist in the delivery of the foetus are di- vided into active and passive. THE ACTIVE FARTS ARE 1. The uterus, which contracts its body and fundus by mus- cular power, the orifice is thu.', dilated, and tl.c con- tents of the uterus are propelled throngli its orifice and the vagina, in whicli there is no resistance. 2. The abdominal muscles and diaphragm, which contract like a press, and force downwards every thing con- tained in the uterus into the cavity of the pelvis, where it is contained like a wedse. o THE LIQUOR OF THE AMNION AND THE FOETUS ARE THE PASSIVE PARTS. Though they act upon the inferior segment of the membra- nous ovum which protrudes out of the orifice of the uterus inform of a bladder, and is distended by the liquor of the amnion, which at last breaks. The ovum, filled with the liquor of the amnion and the head of the foetus, dilates the orifice of the uterus and the vagina more and more: from this dilatation, the labia m.ajora are drawn inwards; but the os coccygis is pressed backwards by the head passing out, which takes the curve of the os sacrum going between the bones of the pubis. ' CHILD-BIRTH. When the child is delivered, the cavity of the uterus con- tracts, by which means the placenta and membranes of the ovum adhering to it are seperated and ex- pelled. The navel string is tied and cut. The lochia flow chiefly from the arteries of the uterus, to whicli the placenta adhered: but these vessels, dilated during pregnancy, contract very much ; the uterus, abiKmien, and pelvis, soon recover their former size, especially if the abdomen be properly bandaged. About