( 140 ) THE The small pancreas is that process of the pancreas, which adheres to the duodenum. SUBSTAVCF,, Is composed of innumerable glands. 'I’lie pancreatic duct arises from minute branches, forming one canal, which runs through the jniddle of the pancreas, and perforates the coats of the duodenum in conjunction with the ductus communis choledochus. COXNECTIOX With the stomach and spleen, by means of membranes; and with the duodenum, by the lesser spleen, and pan- creatic duct. USE. To secrete a fluid, like saliva, wjiich is carried into the I duodenum. THE LACTEAL VESSELS, or CIIYLEFEROUS ABSORBENTS. The course by which the chyle is carried into the blood from the intestines, comprehends 1. The lacteal vessels. 2. receptaculum chyli. 3. thoracic duct. The lacteals, or absorbents, arc small vessels, arising, chiefly, from the internal membrane of the small intestines; very few from the larger. They arc divided into the lacteals of the first and second order. Those of the first order arc from their origin at the intestines, to the mysenteric glands. Those of the second order are the continuation of the lacteals from the mysenteric glands, to the receptaculum chyli. The receptaculum chyli is a narrow sac, resting upon the diaphragm at the two superior bodies of the lumbar vertebrae; but sometimes not e.xisting. The thoracic duct is a canal, passing from the receptaculum chyli through the posterior foramen of the diaphragm, and lying near the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae in the posterior mediastinum of the thorax, ascending to the left subclavian vein, into which it empties its contents of chyle, and coagulable lymph. The thoracic duct, in its passage, receives the absorbents from almost every part of the body. USE. To carry the chyle, and coagulable lymph into the blood. THE KIDNEYS Are two viscera, which secrete the urine. SITUATION. In the lumbar region, behind the peritoneum, 'near the bodies * of the superior lumbar vertebriu. SHAPE.' Like a bean, ' 1 DIVISION. Into anterior and . posterior surfaces, superior and inferior extremities, external margin. SUBSTANCE IS THREE-FOLD: 1. Cortical, or vascular, externally. 2. Tubular, more internally. 3. Papillous, at the most interior part. THE coverings OF THE KIDNEYS ARB 1. Adipose membrane, which is thick, loosely surrounding them,, 2. A proper, or peculiar membrane. The ureters are membranous canals, one in each kidney, descending into the urinary bladder, which it perfo- rates oblicpiely; its origin, at the kidney, is larger, and called the renal pelvis. The suprarenal glands are two large glands, situated above the kidneys, and covered by the same adipose mem- brane of the kidneys. USE. The kidneys secrete urine; and the ureters carry it from them into the bladder. THE URINARY BLADDER Is a membranous sac under the peritoneum, in the cavity of the pelvis. SITUATION, In men, between the bones of the pubis and intestine, called rectum ; in women, between the pubis and uteruA SHAPE. Resembles a large pyriform bottle : and hence its DIVISION. Into su]|brior, or fundus, bofly, or middle, neck, which arises froifi its inferior part, and is sur- rounded by a muscular sphincter. SUBSTANCE. Is of four membranes, like the intestines. USE. To receive the urine, retain, and expel it.