( 34 ) PLATE XXXIL Intercostal, Cervical Nerve, or the Sympatheticm Magnus, The great importance of an accurate conception of these nerves, their connections and distributions to .various parts, must be obvious. Symptoms arising from sympathy of parts in various diseases, arc clearly demonstrated, and many affections, formerly obscure, traced to their true and original causes, not by imaginary vain hypotheses, which have so much injured and degraded the art of physic; but by demonstrative facts, that can be reiterated by every industrious anatomist and physiologist. On these /subjects, much may be seen in my Treatises on Nervous Diseases, See, Name and origin. Great sympathetic nerve; from the *5xth pair of nerves of the brain. a. First, or great cervical ganglion; be- tween the processes of the first and second vertebra:, and angle of the maxilla inferior. b. Ramos.mollis; is of reddish soft na- ture. c. Ramus cardiacus supremos, \o\ super- . Jlcialis. d. Truncus intcrcostalis cervicalis; from the superior to the inferior ganglion. f. Inferior cervical ganglion; to the fifth vertebra of the neck. J. First internal branch. g. Second ramification.. h. Superjicial branch. i. Deep-seated branch. h. Ganglion dorsale primum ; magnum, sen thoraciaim superius; to the first • vertebra of the back. i. Gnngliou parrum, vcl secundum; be- tween the tii'st and second rib. ■m. Ganglion dorsale tertium; between the second and third rib. II. Far vagum: eighth. o. NerVits recurrens; of the par vagum ; about the subclavian artery, p. Nervus accessorius Willisii; or supe- rior recurrent nerve. <{. .Interior ramus, or branch of the fist pair of cerviail nerves. r. ■ o/' the second pair. s. - '■ — trunk of the third pair. #. fourth pair. ft. ———ffthpair. V. —- sixth pair. 7V. — seventh pair.. .r. ■ •— eighth pair. p. Fin t pair of dorsal nerves. Divisions. Has three ganglions, branches, filaments, and many surculi, or sprigs. Receives rarauli from the first, second, and third nerve of the cervex, sometimes from the eighth and ninth pair of the cerebrum. Two branches. A third. Receives a branch from the intercostal cervical nerve, and many anastomoc s. Communicates with the second branch of the fourth pair. Receives branches from the fifth and sixth pair of cervicals. Anastomoses with the supreme and recur- rent cardiac. Comnumicates with recurrent of the eighth pair. 1 .Are inserteil into the first dorsal ganglion J above the subclavian artery. Communicates with the sixth pair, eighth and first dorsal. Is as’it were an appendix of the great tho- racic ganglion ; receives a branch from the first dorsal nerve. Receives u rainuliis from the second dorsal nerve. Its trunk. lias many ramifications and anastomoses. Perforates the sterno and cleido-rnastoid muscies. Unites with the second pair. Communicates with the former. Has many anastomoses witlithe fourth pair. Communicates with the tlurd pair. Distributions. Distributed through the neck, thorax, abdomen, &c. Sends out the ramus mollis, cardiacus su* preraus, and inferior tnmk. Run up to the internal carotid. Covers the external carotid, and goes to the larynx and pharynx. Runs to the larynx, musculus sterno thyroideusand gland, and aorta. A ramification goes to the thyroid gland; the trunk runs to the inferior ganglion. Sends off branches the first, second, su- perficial, and deep seated. To the cardiac plexus. Runs to the trachea, pulmonary artery, vena cava. Form the aasae, or laquei Vicussenii. Sends off an anonymous trunk, brandies to tbe cardiac plexus, aorta, puliiuj- nary, and coronary arteries. Trunk runs to tbe third ganglion. As the above. Descends in the neck. 'I’o the larynx, trachea, arterki pidrnona- ris, aorta. Descends to the masculus cueulhuis. Semis out a small branch to tlie gn«l cervical ganglion. Gives two sjuall ran ifications to the ganglion. Forms the phrenic nerve, and rund to tli* sterno cleidohyoid muscle. '• Gives phrenic, diaphragmatic, prtffuridus and median nerves. Hence the scapula and phxenjc nerve* and pectoral muscle, . To theserratus anticus, &c. i To the pectoral s8rrated muscles; form J the cutaneous, internal, and median® nerve. • i ‘ ■ I The fixth and sixth pair are joined to- J gether. Communicates with the sixth pair. together, and send off ra- 1 Are joined inulu }