( 191 ) 5. Alkalint-food, dissolves tRe gelatinary part of the blood, hence arises an incurable state of wounds, ulcers, and fractures, and from the thinness of the blood various hasmarrhages and livid spots are occasioned. 6. Acid-food, causes an iichiness, cutaneous diseases, softness * of the bones, and rickets. 7. Sweet-food, by long continuance, brings on acidity of the l^umours, which occasion the teeth to be black, and the rickets in children. 8. Acrid and aromatic food, causes inflammation in wounds and ulcers, when long chewed, in the mouth it also occasions blackness and caries of the teeth. 9. Flatulent food, frequently occasions a strangulated hernia, to those who are subject to them. 10. Cold food, sometimes brings on a cold and tooth ach, and hot food occasions fissures and blackness of the teeth ; but when too hot, it burns the mouth, fauces and oesophagus, which occasions a morbid narrowness of that channel 11. Poiso«ed-/bod,. causes different diseases, according to the kind of poison; thus, bread made of impure flour, occasions the coreal convulsion, an account of which may be seen in the rational practice, in the chapter on convulsions, &c. dry gangrene in the extremities; arsenic swallowed, has been known to occasion morti- fication of the stomach, or genitals. 12. Indigestible food, causes a crude saburra, and flatulence, by which a strangulated hernia may be occasioned. 13. Heterogeneous-bodies, in- food usually remain in the fauces, cardia, pylorus, or near Tulpius valve, or at the termination of the rectum ; by mistake of deglu- tition the food sometimes escapes into the eustachian tube, fissure of the larynx, trachea, or bronchia, and, if not immediately expelled, they suftbeate, though they sometimes find an unexpected passage out of the body, by inflammation, abcess, or fistula. INCREASED MUSCULAR MOTION. Increased action of the muscles, accelerates the blood’s mo- tion, increases hear, opens the exhalent arteries, and being suddenly checked by cold, produces many evils; hence it increases inflammatory tumours, and in- flamed cold ones is hurtful in haemorrhages, disturbs the situation of a fracture, luxation, wound, or ul- cer, and prevents them from healing. Particular motions of any part tend to the same purpose, as 1. Force, as during labour, any bodily exercise, wrestling, expelling the urine, or faces, may produce broncho- cele, hernia, prolapsus, ophthalmia. 2. Deep inspirations, by inflating the lungs to the utmost, has produced rupture of the blood vessels, hernia, and ophthalmia. 3. Vomiting and cough are sometimes productive of redness of the eyes, force a great quantity of blood to the brain, hence fatal effusions, apoplexy, hydrocephalus membranaruin in children, aud in the ; ventricles of the brain, &c. ecchymosis, and herniae, vomiting has caused rupture of the msophagus, and forced the stomach into the thorax. 4. Sneezing, brings on rupture, and in people Who have been trepanned, a protrusion of the brain, through the trepanned part. 5. Immoderate laughter, has caused struma of the neck, a dislocation of the jaw bone, a determination of bloorl to the brain and eyes. G. Gaping, has occasioned dislocation of the jaw bone. 7. Loud hallowing, has been productive of hernia, and sing- ing redness of the eyes, and sore throat. 8. Dancing, a fracture of the leg, luxation, or distortion of the foot, knee, or thigh, rupture of the liver, spleen, or aorta ; perturbation of the brain, and rupture of the tendo achillis. Q. Continual walking, rigidity of the knees and anchylosis. 10. Straddling, has occasioned hernia. 11. Porterage, a distortion of the spine, and crookedness of the legs. 12. lifting heavy weights, pain of the side, hernia, pul- inonocele, prolapsus. 13. Wrestling, a distortion of muscles and tendons, rupture of the ligaments of the wrist, distortion, or luxation of tlic hand, fingers, elbow, or shoulder. DIMINISHED MUSCULAR MOTION. Diminished muscular motion causes rigidity of the muscles and ligaments, also anchylosis. Under this head may be classed every position of certain members, as 1. Too lung standing, produces oedema, piles, and ulcers of the legs. 2. An improper situation, occasions crookedness, and de- formities. 3. Too long sitting, causes rigidity of the knees. 4. Continual bending of the knee, occasions lupia—and rigidity of the spine. 5. Continual lying in bed, brings on inflammation, excoria- tion, and mortification about the os coccygis, and os sacrum, it also occasions calculi in the bladder and kidneys.' ' , EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. The kinds of violence, which usually occasion diseases, are 1. Incision, which makes an incised wound. 2. Puncture, which makes a punctured wound. 3. Contusion, which produces ecchymosis, or a contused wound, and afterwards even carious bones Ike. 4. A bite, which occasions a contused wound. 5. Rupture, which frequently forces the members from their articulations. 6. Amputation, performed by the knife, or made by a shot^ occasions loss of the member. 7. Falling, especially from a pretty high place, produces fractures and luxations of the bones, contusions of the