cx HISTORY OF MEDICINE, “ when a great genius appears, b}' all the dunces being in league against him ! Ignorance and mediocrity hate science an^jHI distinguished approbation ; artifice and dissimulation, dread candour, sincerity, and good sensei 'm The justly celebrated Auistotle, contrasts the qualities or virtues already mentioned, with the striking vices, that ars’iJB; their opposites, as imprudaice, irascibility, fear of death, vifcmpcrance, incontinence, injustice, iUiberality, and pusillanimity. To*T pronounce that such human depravities of the soul, are debasing and vicious, is sufficient to render them detestable, in the \ mind of every well disposed virtuous youth. | THE NECESSARY MENTAL QUALITIES OF A MEDICAL STUDENT. ! THE svnopsis and the studies to be pursued, already mentioned, shew the universal knowledge necessary for the contem-i plalion and practice of physic. A greater character for learning and science cannot exist, than what constitutes an accoin- | ■ plished i)hysician ; therefore, the most early study, and comprehensive mind, are requisite. The youth intended for physic, should have all his senses acute, and in the utmost degree of perfection ; for from the perceptibility of the senses alone, is y the human mind stored with all those sublime ideas, that shine so conspicuously in future practical life. *; If the senses be obtuse, slow dulness is the consequence, and a dull scholar never made a brilliant phj'sician. The pupil, therefore, should have organs capable of the clearest perception, to receive accurate impressions, and possess a tenacity in their retention. The intellectual faculties, should, by study and industry, be copiously enriched with the most extensive ideas ‘ ^ of sensation and reflection, with memory, invention, and genius, to call them forth with order and logical arrangement on all important occasions. When all the demonstrative facts are acquired, appertaining to the art, reflection, acute reasoning, and profound judgment, decide how they are to be applied with safety and eflicacy, in the cure of diseases. What a vast field of j science is comprehended ! How many days and years of labour and industry are required ! What sedulous diligence is ab-| solutely necessary ! Pursue, therefore, with an ambitious zeal, all the various branches of the science; never attach your-' ' selves to one, but embrace the whole ; for they, all united, form, with experience, the greatest medical characters. TERMINOLOGIA, ANATOMY, AND PHARMACY; EAPi-LY learn terms, the constituent parts of substances, and definitions. With your own hands practise dissections in the dissecting room, chemistry in the laboratory, and pharmacy, in the apothecary’s shop. Reading, merely, on these sub- jects, gives but a very faint and inadequate idea of those useful branches, but practice makes perfect, and lays the founda- tion of clear reasoning on analysis, synthesis, the doctrines of composition, decomposition, and of analogies, &c. and forms thejudicious structure of all learned prescriptions. Books on these subjects can always be referred to ; first, as introductory, and afterwards, as occasion may require, to be correctors, and remembrancers, of early studies. A spirited emulation should animate the soul, to obtain excellence by unremitting application and industry. Neither indolence nor inattention, can ever be allowed in the medical art. The whole soul should be absorbed in the daily contemplation and humane duties of the profession ! On a future occasion 1 shall enlarge on all these important topics. HOSPITAL STUDIES, &c. IN this grand and extensive metropolis, great hospitals, with many of the most excellent preceptors in Europe, for the cul- tivation of all the branches of medical science, furnish opportunities for industrious students to become skilful practitioners. The professors teach, and it is expected the scholars should learn. All the efforts and experience of the former will prove abortive, if the latter be'not attentive, sober, and industrious. It is best to commence studies, in great practical hospitals, at the age of fourteen or fifteen, and those who do, it is their own fault, if they should not become expert. Those who are loosened upon the town at the age of twenty or more, and com- mence their London hospital studies, should be uncommonly assiduous, during the short period they remain. Every hour should be employed, and the study of every branch arranged, so that one should not interfere with another. No loitering, no dissipation, no card playing, no pursuits of pleasures are permissible. The town, with all its bewitching attractions, , must not invade the unexperienced juvenile mind. The medical student comes from the distant provinces to improve, and be |j enabled to conscientiously perform the sacred duties of the profession; if he, through negligence, should return little wiserfl than he came, he disgraces the art, and injures society, who suppose ability, where dangerous insufficiency exists. No-J; thing can be more infamous than to pretend to knowledge, and be deficient in an art, on which the preservation of health^ f the cure of diseases, and life of human beings'depend. The world at large, indeed, are but ill judges of medical‘abilities, and they sometimes applaud superficial talents, and neglect profound science; but this is no argument in favour of deficient knowledge*