Into the upper part of the toes, m. Extensor brevis digitorum pedis; arises from the fore To extend the toes. ( ) PLATE XIV. The third Layer of Muscles on the back Fart of the Body. HEAD AND NECK. Ka?ne and origin. a. Part of the buccinator. b. Cowplcxus; from six vertebra; of (he neck and three of the back. c. Trachelo-mastoideus : from the sternum and clavicle. d. Scafaius medius; from the cavicle and two ribs. e. Scalenus posticus. a. Sphialis dorsi; and below it the midtifidus spimt. b. Longisshnvs dorsi; from the os sacrum and ilium. c. Sacro limbaris ; as the former. Insertion. U nd er the splenius muscle. Into the mastoid process. 1 Into the sides of the vertebrae of\ J the neck. THE TRUNK. Action. To bend the head backwards. To bend the head forwards. )T» bend the neck forwards. Into all the vertebras of the back. ^ Into the vertebras of the back and I loins. d. Semi spinalis dorsi; from the os sacrum and vetebras Into the vertebrae of the loins, of the loins. c. Transtersalis abdominis ; from the sides of the verte- Into the linea alba, brae in the loins. TtlE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. To brin<{ the back backwards. To contain and compress the ab- domen, to expel the foeces to facilitate the respiration. Into the upper part of the humerus. Into the middle of the os humeri. Into the upper part of the ulna. To bring the humerus downwards. To raise the humerus. To bend the fore-arm. Into the olecranon. Into the carpus near the thumb. To extend the fore-arm. To bend the wrist. w. Teres major, from the lower part of the scapula. b. Sarscoraco-brachialis ; from the coracoid process. c. Pars coraco~brachialis interni; from the humerus under,.the deltoid muscle. d. Capui tertium trieipitis extensoris cubiti; from the neck of the scapula. «. Extensor radialis longior ; from the internal condyle of the humerus. y. Extensor radialis brevior; from the external condyle Into the bones of the metacarpus. To extend the carpus, of the hnmerus. g. Part of the Jlexor profundus perforans; from the upper part of the ulna. b. Supinator radii bretis; from the upper part of the ulna. i. Pars adducioris pollieis ; from the metacarpal bone, that sustains the middle finger. 1c. One oi three interossei exttrni; from the sides of Into the first joint of the fingers, the metacarpal bones. thumb. 1. The tendons of the CTfensores rfig/Vo/T/n?, jointly with the/«m6rrca/t's, and interossei, forming the tendinous expansion in the posterior part of the four fingers. THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Into the third joint of the fingers. To bend the fingers. Into the upper part of the radius. To roll the arm outwards. Into the inner part of the root of To pull the thumb towards the the first bone fingers. To bring the fingers towards the a. Ghtxus minimus; from the ilium near the acetabulum. b. Obturator internus; from the inner side of the fora- men pubis. c. Semimembranosus; from the ischium. d. Caput brevi bicipitis fexoris cruris; from the Ischium and femur. e. Triceps magnus; from the os pubis and ilium. f. Gracilis; from the fore part of the os pubis. Under the ham is the origin of both the gastrocnemii exter g. Popliteus; from the external condyle of the thigh. k. Tibialis posticus ; from the iuterosseus ligament. i. Flexor longus digitorum pedis; from the back part of the tibia, below' its head, and divides into four tendons. Ic. Flexor pollieis longus; from the back part of the fibula. J. Peronaus longus; from the fore part of the fibula. part of the os calc is. Into the trochanter major. Near the trochanter major. Into the internal side of the tibia. On the posterior part of the fibula. Into the spine of the os femoris. Into the ham. id and plantaris. Into the tibia under the ham. Into the external bone of the me- tatarsus. Into the extremity of the last joint of the four lesser toes. Into the last jointof ihegreat toe. Into the outside of the os meta- tarsis. except the little one. To extend the femur. To roll the femur. To bend the leg. To bend the leg. To turn the femur outwards. To bend the femur. To turn the tibia outwards. To bend the foot outwards. To bend the last joint of the toes. To bend the last joint of that toe. To bend the foot.