The conclusion With a brief flccoant of the plan instituted at the St. Mary-lc-bone infirmary, for instructing pupils in the-icience of me» aicine, and its various branches, &c. A HUS is concluded the abridged translation of Scho!a Medicinte Cniversalis Nuxa ; principally adapted to the pur- poses of practice in the medical art. The Latin edition is more diffusive; but, perhaps, not more useful, except, that it contains the appearances from dissections, and relations of morbid parts of all diseases, in a column parallel to the physiology. In the history of medicine, the English edition is much enlarged, and the whole practice and sentiments of the illustrious father of medicine, IlipPOCRAXts, are ar- ranged, not without much labour, in a conspicuous point of view. 'Ihe doctrwies likewise, of the Greek philosophers are introduced, and the dogmata of Asclepiades, and other leaders of sectaries are exhibited. The ancients were no less industrious in forming visionary systems than the moderns. They were frequently credited, took root, blazed forth with lustre, lived lor a certain period, attracted admi- ration, pro tempore, while in fashion, gradually came into disrepute, decayed, and then fell never to rise again. This has been, and ever will be, the fate of all narrow systems, which would contract the wide expanse and varieties of hu- man nature, into a few miserable unproved cliimerical principles. After such repeated failures of many ingenious and real learaed men, it is surprising that any professor, or physician, will dare to advance, or attempt to enforce doctrines, wliich, if examined by the lights of reason and truth, are found, not only defective, but absolutely false. Miserable must be the art, after above 2000 years labour, of different and suc- ceeding artists, if from their joint science, a foundation for rational practice cannot be formed, without those false and erroneous props, hypotheses, unintelligible and equivocal ambiguous phraseology, the subtle schemes of artifice, through the vanity of appearing singular. There arc facts enough in the art, fully established, for all the purpo.ses of investigating the causes, and curing all cuiable diseases ; then why desert truths and experience, to embrace error, falshood, the stratagems of delusion, or the wild effusions of infatuation and immature experience? Why ?—Why, because men are desirous of a shorter cut to obtain knowledge, thah can be acquired by the laborious studies and experience already promulgated, in the former part of this work, as indispensably necessary. Irnaguiation, it let loose, takes more rapid and unsubstantial flights than cool reason, guided by science, tuith, and solid judgment. The authors of false doctrines may be justly charged with intentional dcceppon, and their superficial believers and fol- lowers, with vicious credulity and indolence, in suffering them- selves to be imposed on b) the semblance of veracity, where no veracity exists. Versatile juvenile characters, often ra- pidly fly after every superficial crude novelty ; experience, rea- son, and profound judgment, are meditating cautions, pene- trating and circumspect. Which of the two is most appro- priate to so impmtaiita science as inediciric ? Let those who are capable of reasoning and reflection determine. The greatest ambition ot my life, the grandest objects of an ardent solicitude, have been to see a rational m IuioI of medicine erected; for this purpose have ail my laltoiiiv been diie^^ed, and through the j(-int assistance ot in^ coilcagues Doctor Hooper, and Mr. Phillips, at the Si. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, those views are nearly acc«nnj>|i -he(i. 1 am proud to say, 1 laid the first brick of that .dry biiiiJing, on the eleventh of June, 17.92, and gave the outlines of the defects of our foriner infirmary, which 1 had long attended, and other hospitals, to tlie.brmevolent noGlemen and gentlemen of the committee, to reu<icr the new erection conipkte, as much as appeared jMissiblc, for the comforts of'the poor afflicted, and for the humane purposes of that most excellent parochial institution. Mr. White distinguished hnii-self as an excellent architect. It has since received inqiiovements; so that it may be considered as a model lor all the purposes of a complete llritish hospital. I had seen, and had plans of most of the liospitals in Europe, and had investigated their merits and -delccts; the foriner were adopted, and the latter e.vcludcd.* One important circumstance has been ob- served, never to mingle the surgery patients with the medical; but to keep them both in separate wards, by which the olfac- tory nerves are not offended witli the disagreeable odours of ulcers, ointments, &c. nor the surgery patients exposed to the contaminating air of putrid fevers, &c. The wards are airy, open, axhl all distinct. ~ As to the modes of exercising the pupfls, these too dif- fer from all other places, or hospitals in Europe; and they are respectfully submitted to the candid and leiwned in tlie profession, and to all those useful and celebrated members of society, professors, who undertake the rinportant task of initiating students into that art, which, amongst all others, is the most learned and diflicult of access. 1. As nothiug can be understood without a knowledge of learned * The hospitals have been examined as to the building, arrangements, and medical practice, at Rouen, Amiens, Paris, and I.yons, in Euance; those at Turin, Florence, Bologna, Rome, Naples, Ecrrara, I’adun, Venice, and others in Italy; those of Trieste, Lintz, Vienna, Ratisbon, Eranckfort, Mentz, Cologne, and other parts of Germany ; St. Omers, Brussels, ti.e Low Countiie:, and al) Holland, as Amsterdam, Rotterdaor, Leyden, the Hague, &c.