H INTRODUCTION, See. Plate the Second of the History of Medicine. I. Salus, tlie image of liealth, is not rare in coins.—The veneration of health, or salus, was very great among the 'Greeis, as well as the Homans: from hence these frequent iirseriptions—to perpetual health—to public health—to sacred or holy health—to yEsculapius and health, he. in Gruter and Reyncsius, &:c. II. A sacrifice to health. III. Aisculapius sacrificing to the sun and moon. IV. Isis with Mercury’s golden wand, or rod.* V. A pantheon head, not female but male, with the horn of the Arietiue Jupiter Ammon ; the calathus, or sacred cup, intimates Serapis, the trident Neptune, the serpent .lEscu- lapius, &c. , . VI. Isis joined to Serapis and Osiris. VII. A golden ring with Serapis. VIII. A ring with the healthful goddess. IX. A sacrifice to the god of physic by the Pergamenians. X. Serapis worshipped by the Rhodians. XI. Serapis adored at Rhodes. XII. The people at Cos, where Hippocrates flourished, adoring .Esculapius, Diana, &c. XIII. Minerva and/Esculapius. The Pergamenians com- ing from Arcada worshipped yEsculapius and Minerva, Lveian, in his witty manner, says, that AJsculapius exercised the art of medicine in this city, at Pergamus, and had opened a shop, meaning the temple, where credulity and superstition led the faithful, as usual,^ to ofter their prayers, in hopes of dreaming what might prove beneficial. A juggle not unlike modem magnetism.^ XIV. In coins familar to Alcilia. The head of health, and the image expresses sickness or ill-health, administering the serpent, the symbol of jEsculapius, as a remedy, with much devotipn, from that beautiful figure. Explication the great orator’s cruel death; the expression in the face is striking, and corresponds with some antique seals of which I had impressions. ’Y'oeface, \\\c pomum Adami, ihe muscles of the neck, the clavicles, superior parts of the breasts, 3cc. are all exquisitely delineated and finished with the most expressive strokes of art. There are but three antique busts of Cicero extant in Europe except that which I possess, which I procured in an extraordinary manner. This may appear a digression, but as I have hinted in my book on the necessity of encouraging Anatomy, that the defects in modern sculpture are owing to want of exquisite anatomical knowledge, some liberal and generous prince, protector of the arts, may hereafter, not suffer the students and artists to copy from Greek or Roman originals, when, if more judicious modes of studying geometry, mathematics, optics, and catoptrics, were adopted, and proper encouragement given to persons of groat merit and abilities, men would appear who would soon equal, if not surpass, the most cultivated ages of the Greeks and Romans. The most excellent artists would not servilely and humbly copy, but would elevate their minds, and give the grandest specimens of originality in their admirable productions. It is the interest, it is the duty of princes and nobles to encourage the arts, literature, and all men of genius; for who can display their virtues, reprehend their vices, or conceal their defects, like men of discernment, and writers of abilities ? When the most distinguished characters in literature and excellent morals are neglected, and suflered to pine in want, in countries abounding with opulence and every species of luxury ; when truth, honour, probity, and every laudable virtue $eem$ nearly extinguished, and many of the great through Europe, are only famous for dissipation, immorality, or frivolity, it may be depended on, that similar negligences have been the destruction of states. Had Louis Sieze been more vigilant, and had he attended more to the wisq prescience of literature, than to the flattery of corrupted and corrupting sycophants, who generally pursue their own interests, that worthy, well intentione«l monarch’s fall and death could not have happened ; nor any of the honid cruelties that succeeded the French revolution. Learning and sagacity are mischievous weapons when pro- voked by contempt and want. A few thousands annually presented from the rot/al purse would make the Keeping face of science smile, ami royalty would be immortalized ; not as the nominal, but as the real lover and protector of the fine arts. Louis Quatorze knew this secret, and has left institutions at Fat'is, that will ever be respected by all posterity; however civil disebords may, for a time, obscure their lustre. 'I’he great Colbert, his minister, must live forever in the hearts of all men of science. ’I’he Apotheosis of Homer, that c,\ccllent antique sculpture, on which I have written, displays the highest stretch of human art. * It wat figured bj; the Egyptians like two serpents knit together in the middle^ which knot was called Hercules’s knot. This wand, as also Ike ll^sp, giv^. to, hi<9 by Apollo, wbcjxiwUb b« had. power to bring souls out of bell, aud to cwCaigr one into a steep. Vi(L Sera. tazEo. viii 139. ^ Pliny ix. 3. » ^ This is not a translation; and in many other parts the original Latin is not closely adhered to, but in general the explanations arc improved.