( «99 ) wounds, cutaneous diseases and fractures, ^vhen they have been tied up a long tame, of scurvy, itch, &c. Cold, is a symptom of haemoirhage, suppuration, and mortifi- cation. Heat, is a symptom of fever, which accompanies inflam- ^ matory tumours, and inflammations. I SYMPTOMS OF THE INTERNAL SENSES. These are depravations or' abolitions of the imagination, or memory. 1. Delirium, is a symptom of a greathajmorrhage, affection of the brain, and much pain. 2. Furious madness, or the desire of biting, is a symptom caused by the bite of a mad animal. ' 3. Hydrophobia, or an extreme aversion to water or fluids, is a frequent symptom of wounds, by the bite of a '! mad-dog. j' 4. Tarantismus, or an immoderate desire of dancing, is said * to be a symptom proceeding from the bite of the ] tarantula, but experiments have not proved that it is ' caused by the sting of a tarantula. 5. Vertigo, or dizziness, is a symptom of great haemorrhage ij and affection of the brain. jj 6. Stupidity, is a symptomof injury done to the head. 7. Amnesia, or a loss of recollection of mostly all the ideas, I is a symptom of the brain being disordered.. ' SYMPTOMS OF SLEEF. A profound sleep, or a comatose state, is a symptom of the 1 , brain being affected by an effusion of blood, or in>- dentation of the cranium, hydrocephalus ischury, an ; old ulcer being healed, without removing causes. i| Typhominia, or apparent sleep with delirium, is a symptom 1 of the brain being irritated by injury, it also follows the bite of a venomous insect, called scolopenda. Agryphnia is continually being awake with the recollection I of almost every disagreeable idea and pain, it is pre- ii sent chiefly in the night, from indegestion, &c. I Panophobia, or fear in sleep, is a symptom, which frequently 1 accompanies fractures, internal hydrocephalus, and the bite of a morbid animal, indigestion, &c. SYMPTOMS OF MUSCULAR MOTION. ! The action of the muscles can be improper, by spasms, I paralysis, or relaxation. Spasms are divided into tonic and clonic, or spasms and convulsions. i , Spasms are involuntary and constant contractrohs of the i muscles, and convulsions are involuntary and reci- I procai motions of the muscles, alternately. ! SPASMS. Tetanus is a rigidity of all the muscles of th.e bodj’;, by , which it is fendered like a statue, and coiitihues’cjt- teiided in a right line, bent forwards,'backwards, or ) I sideways, it is a symptom of the brain, or temporal muscle being injured, of a nerve being bruised, tied, pulled, pinched, or touched with a caustic, hence contusions of the head, wounds, amputations, liga- tures of the spermatic chord, affections of the nerves carious teeth, and luxations, with ruptured capsular ligament frequently occasion it, particularly iii hot climates and hospitals, mostly in irritable habits. The cramp or spasm of the leg, is a symptom of varicose veins in the leg, or irregular nervous power. Spasm, of the jaw, or locked jaw, is a symptom of angina of the tonsils, and frequently the forerunner of universal tetanus. Spasm of the face, or sardonic laugh, sometimes follows an injury done to the nerve of the diaphragm. CONVULSIONS. Convulsion is an involuntary motion of the muscles of the whole bod}', and is a symptom of violence done to the brain, spinal marrow and punctures of nerves, also great hseinorrhages and excruciating pains, as the tooth acli, ear acli, dentition, calculus,, and in- ternal caries of the cranium, of the vertebrae, bifid- spine, by pressure with the finger, internal hydro- cephalus; wounded, persons exposed to an air thatis too cold, ape easily seized with tetanus, or con- vulsions. Nystagmus, or convulsion of the palpebras and bulb of the eye is a symptom of ophthalmia. Trismus, or a grindmg of the teeth, is a symptom of excru- ciating pain. The locked jaw is also called trismus. Epilepsy is a periodical convulsion of the wliolc body, and a symptom of exostosis, internal caries of the craniunij or vertebra;, commotion of the brain, and the sudden and improper healing of an old ulcer. Horror, is a symptom of beginning inflammation, when going into suppuration. • *5 Tremor, is a symptom of contusion of the head, and of fear a person undergoes before, or during an operation, or nervous affection. , Sneezing, is a symptom of ophthalmia, from cold, and of the separation of a polypus. Gaping, is a symptom of periodic ophthalmia and of hig- morrhage. Hiccup, is an involuntary contraction of the diaphragm sometimes interrupted by loud, inspiration, ancl.is.a symptom of hemorrhage, ischury, gangtjene, aphthous, angma, wounds of the brain, diaphragm, stomach and intestines, or contusions only, incarcerated herniii, fracture of the vertebrae, or compression of the en- siform cartilage, and forerunner of death. Cough, is a sonorous concussion of the thorax, and a symp- tom of some extraneous body having escaped into the trachea, of pus being absorbed from an ulcer, and deposited in the lungs, of mucus, ike. PARALYSIS, OR PALSY. Apoplexy is a paralysis of all the voluntary muscles, with luud.