( 202 ) hardness, softness, fluctuation, pulsation, heat or coldness of tumours. 2. By the licaring we perceive the creaking of fractured bones, and the crackling of air in emphysema, 3. Bv the smell w'e distinguish gangrenous putridity, the foetor of the fccccs, or urine in wounds of the great intestines, cancerous ulcer of the womb, &c. 4. B}^ the taste, tints an efl'usion of a bitter fluid from a wound of the abdomen, denotes injury of the gall bladder. • 5. By the sight we discern the external appearance of wounds and ulcers, the colour and extent of tu- mours, and know at sight, what injury is done to par- ticular parts by the effusion of fluid, as, by a dis- charge of faeces, by a wound of the abdomen, we are certain of injury having been done to the great intestines. f). By the judgment, through which we know the nature of a disease by the action of the morbilic causes, and of those things whicli increase or diminish them. 7. By analogy, we compare diseases little known, with those which are better understood. 3. By particular motions and pain in many complaints, we know the seat of the disease. The signs of every disease are divided into proper, common, and epigcnomic. The proper sign of a disease, which is also called the pathog- nomonic, and charactercstic, is that, by which one dis- ease differs from another, as pulsation, in true aneu- rism, an impression of the finger after touching a part, is a sign of oedema; and a crackling of the cel- lular membrane denotes, emphysema. Sometimes we take the pathognomonic sign of adiseasefrom one onl}', sometimes from several symptoms ; but there are some cases which have no pathognomonic sign, lienee they cannot be detected by human intelligence blood effused under the cranium, sometimes offers an example of this kind, except by stupor appearing. The common sign of a disease, is that which is common to. many diseases, thus pain is a sign common to most tumours, whether indolent or suppurating. Tlie cpigcuomic sign is that which indicates another disease- having preceded, being present, or about to come, thus an intermittent fever being occasioned by, or, coming on alter a wound, is an epigcnomic sign. ANAMNESIS OF DISEASES. This is a science treating on the signs, by which we trace the cause of diseases. The proximate cause of a disease is understood, 1. By the nature of the disease-., 2. From the known, or remote action of the exciting cause. 3. From the presence of the predisposing cause. The exciting cause will be known from the account of the- patient, if the disease may have happened tlirougli violence, or any other external cause, but if it should have been brought on by any internal cause, which he cannot account for, it is necessary for the surgeon to examine all the internal causes, which may have, given origin to the disease, JIcnee an inquiry concerning the-six, non-naturals, and the diseases, which preceded the present, generally cdu- stitute the anamnesis. THE PUOGNOSIS OF DISEASES. This is a science treating of the signs, by which we judge of the future state of diseases. The prognostic signs are divided into good, which give hopes of life and health, equivocal, which neither suppose danger, nor difficult recovery. Bad, which expect difficult recovery, or, danger of the life. From these signs are judged, 1. The termination of a disease, cither into another or death., 2. The cure of a disease, whether it be easy, difficult, or im- possiblck In doubtful cases a man. of sense ivould not speak decidedly,, but give the most probable opinion. The termination and cure of each disease is spoken of in special pathology, and the modes of cure, indications,, contraindications, and remedies will appear in the practice of medicine. The NOSOLOGY has increased within these few years to a most enormous degree. Every late writer in pathology, seems to think he has a right to change the names of diseases according to will, caprice, and pleasure ; by this means the memory loaded with names without advantage, or improvement of things. 1 shall endeavour, in my practical work, to give just de- finitions of diseases, and simplify the nomina. All that I have been able to investigate from, the numerous dissections ob-- scrvablc in a long life, will best appear in the practice of physic,, by which means many difficulties and prejudices at present in vogue, w'ill be removed, and the art may appear in the language of truth, without the false props of idle ^i^jecula- tions and chimerical hypotheses. Sound practice may be best formed from the ravaging and fatal effects of diseases, by well considering and comprehending with clear reasoning, and the application of important remedies, how- fatality may be pre- vented, and judicious cures efl'ceted, in numerous diseases incident to tlic human body. Now follows the Latin Con.spcctus of the original work.. CONSPECTUS-