X HISTORY OF MEDICINE. “ omnia anlmali, qua sint salutaria ipnin nosse, prater hoininem.” And if we give credit lo this Author, the use of bleeding and clysters was also learnerl fioin animals.—Lib. VIII, Cap. XX\'I. he says, “ Hippopotamus in quddam medendi “ parte etiam magister exstitit. Assidua namque satictate obesiis euit in littus recentes arundinuin ccesuras specxlatus; “ atqiie ibi acutmimam videt stirpem, hnprimens corpus, venam quandam in crure vulnerat atque it a prqftuio sangumis, * morhidum alias corpus exonerat ct plagam limo rursus obducit.” And in Cap. XXVII. speaking of the same animal teaching men the use of clysters, “ Simile quiddam et xolucris in Kgypto monstravit, quee vocatur ibis: rostri aduncitate per cam partem se perluens, qua reddi ciborum oncra maxhne salubre est." But if these observations of Pliny are not correct, the examples, related above, are sufficient; and it is very certain, that Physicians can take ’some lessons, at this time, about the effects of particular remedies—from Shepherds of the Alps, whose employment gives them a more accurate knowledge of the nature and propensities of particular animals. Since emperics, in former times, as well as the present, practised medicine, by experience only, or simple obsci vatiou of effects, without any other basis for their guide—than chance, natural instinct, or unexp<*cted events—which give rise to the name; for empiria signifies experience, void of all reasoning, or a simple observation of facts, without a knowledge of causes. This, in fact, we all admit, lays the foundation of Medicine; but is not alone sufficient to make a good Physician, since, in most cases, a knowledge of causes and reasoning are required, in dubious cases, to form a proper distinction. The recollection of experiments, fortuitous occurrences, and unexpected events, taught men what was salutary, or unwholesome, and under what conditions it was advantageous, or mischievous; so that by mere observation, they could be given with greater certainty of success. Notice has been taken already of the manner of exposing the sick in the forum and public roads, amongst the ancient Assyrians and Egyptians; but, afterwards, when men became celebrated for the study of Medicine, and were deified, after temples had been erected to their memory, and they were worshipped with divine honours, and the sick carried into [their presence, to implore relief in their complaints, by worshipping their images: this was called incubare she incubatio; whence the phrase incubare deo is derived. This practice was chiefly followed in the temples of .Esculapius, at Athens, Pergamus; but, of all other places, Epidaurus was most celebrated. There was also a temple of .^Isculapius, in the island of Cos; atTricca; and various temples, for the worship of other gods ill different parts of Greece—as that of Serapis, that of Pluto and Proserpine, and the cave of Charon; and it appears from Suetonius, that the Romans carried their incurables to the temple of iEsculapius, on the Tyber.—We find, likewise, in' the writings of Strabo, that not only the sick themselves, but the priests offered up prayers for their recovery. The suppliants, to render the gods more propitious, used to fast several days, ofl'er sacrifices, and wash in sea water. They sought for remedies in dreams : either the sick themselves, or the priests, were instrumental, by having the particulars of the case, with a petition to the god, written, and sealed up, upon which they lay down, and dreamed. Then, in sleep, they either saw what was to come to pass, or, only certain signs and symbols, that were construed to satisfy their minds; or • they imagined they saw the gods delivering oracles; and these different methods went under different denominations. But,i after health was restored by this dieaming process, it was necessary to render thanks to the deity, and offer presents, called Donaria. And we learn from Pausanias, that those chiefly, who were recovered by oracles, used to give gold and silver. There were, other means of returning thanks, by causing pictures to be drawn of their state, before and after the cure; sometimes with an account of the case and cure, which were hung upon the walls or pillars of the temple. There wero. various kinds of written descriptions; for they had either the name of the god or goddess on them, by way of thanks; or the- title given to the disease, the name of the sick person, history of the complaint, and remedies. There was also another method of testifying their gratitude, by making artificial images, of different materials, to represent the parts afflicted. Not only simple medicines, but many compositions of remedies, and also surgical instruments were found in the temples of the gods—as in the temple of Vulcan, near Memphis, there was a plaister found, marked with the name of Isis ; and another, c&Wed emplastrum sacrum. However, there was a custom, most followed amongst the Greeks, of dedicating to the gods, ia the temple, any composition that had been found useful in private bands, by which the benefit was more -niniversally diffused—as we find by /Elius, the historian, that a goldsmith, who discovered a very useful cote/mw, left it in bis will to tho temple