HISTORY OF MEDICINE, xHi J^ITRE EROM EsTET MORE LIXIEIOUS THAN OURS OP A RED COLOUR. DiASCORIDES.—Fof SOTC throatS, plcu« jjsies, gouty and rheumatic pains, to purge pWegm from the bowels, water in an anasarca, for the schirrus womb, and in- durations in general. Origanum or thtme.—For cold phlegm, dropsies, jaundice, and all sluggish indolent diseases. Eggs.—^Their whites to be given in fevers, not ardent in the drinks, and their yolks for coughs in children, excessive uterine fluxes, and all weaknesses, or relaxation. Poppy juice.—For hysteric pains, and convulsive disorders, hectic fevers, diarrhoea, and dysentely. Tar and pitch.- Inwardly for ulcers, to expel water from the womb. Pepper.—Outwardly for the tooth ach, and for convulsions, or cramps. Cerus of lead.—For disorders of the eyes, skin, and sharp ulcerations. ^Penny royal.—For fevers and hysterical diseases, and the diseases of women in general. Galba NUM.—Recommended as an expectorant and promoter of uterine discharges. Rezin of turpentine.—For inward ulcers, and excessive fluxes, and uterine diseases. Rose leaves.—For a diarrhoea, diabetes, and relaxation of the uterus, fluor albus, &c. Elder berries.—-To purge in dropsies and uterine diseases. ■ ScAMMONY ROOT AND JUICE.—To purge in the sciatica, nephritic complaints,and chronic diseases. Squills.—To purge in uterine complaints, and to be taken in consumptive cases. Tapping.—For a dropsy and empyema. Whey drink.—For the cure of ulcerations, consumptions, fever, and the gout. Assa fcetida.—For hysterics, peripneumony, pleurisy, jaundice), and a very large dose to purge bile. Sulphur.—For ulcers, diseases of the lungs, and cutaneous disorders. Frankincense.—For ulcerations, puerile asthmas, stomachic, and uterine complaints. It docs not appear, that Hippocrates gave powerful narcotics, to procure sleep; (o) though in some few passages of his book of the disorders of women bespeaks of the juice of poppy, as conducive to the cure of what we now call hysterics. (-p) Me likewise takes notice of mandrake, but cautions against giving it in quantities, sufficient to cause madness; and he iuentions much the same of henbane. ' .As to baths, suffumigations, fomentations, incissions, and gargarisms, (q) he seems to have been perfectly well acquainted with their efficacy, and the proper seasons and manner of using them. (^rJHe lays a particular stress upon ointments, but DO where mentions plaisters. Instead of these he frequently recommended cataplasms, in cases, where, even we, perhaps, might find them preferable to plaisters. When bleeding, and the use of purgatives, which were his general means, for diminishing the superfluity of blood, or humours, were not sufficient, he then had recourse to diuretics. This he seems to insinuate in his work De Ratione Viet, in Acutis. All diseases terminate, or are cured by evacuations, made either by the mouth, belly, the bladder, or some other outlet; but sweat is common to all diseases, and equally terminates all. For these purposes, he sometimes ordered a bath, at other times sweet wine, garlic, onions, leeks, cucumbers, melon, citruls, cysticus, both sorts of apium, feiuiel, maidenhair, and night shade, as well as all acid substances. These several remedies, he directed in various chronical disorders, after purgation, when he believed the blood to be still loaded with ichor. In some cases he excited a diaphoresis, but does not inform us how he produced it. As every plant attracts from the earth, first of all the juice that is agreeable to its nature, (s) and afterwards juices that are different, just so far in a similar manner does a medicine act which ought to attract the bile ; but if it be too strong, (t} or its operation of too long continuance, meeting with no more bile, it then purges phlegm; (uj and after phlegm the black bile, or melancholy ; and last of all the blood. Indeed, he seems to think, as if, all things were performed in the human body by attraction. BOTANY. fe) Did not u»e narcotici. (p) Poppy jaice mandrake and henbane. (?) Understood the use of baths, fomentations, incissions, &•< (r) Ointments likewise and cataplasms, but never mentions plaisters. (s( Accounts for the action of purges, by attraction.. (t) D« naUhomiue. (u) This is not true from our purgativei.