iil .HISTORY OF MEDICINE. «ri>tejin} er ; and the difficulty of curing hectic patients is nearly similar to that of the ancients. Few recover, if the disorder be far advanced ; for, the night sweats, the fever, the cough, the diarrhoea, alternately sieving the atllictcd, and the whole body gradually waiting by such accumulated misery, death at last finally closes the direful scene. ^ he opinions concerning the causes of diseases, are in some degree true, to attribute to the air the cause at particular sea- sons of the year was undoubtedly true ; experience m all ages, and in all countries has confirmed the same; but when tire predominance of any of the four humours, as the blood, phlegm, choler, or melancholy, is introduced as the immediate cause-, such a doctrine was only a mere ancient opinion, and has never been demonstrated, though a subject of disjiute for several ages. For these humours not existing in the human body, in the proportions the ancients conceived, as anatomical demon- stration clearly proves; this opinion, though universally received formerly, is consequently refuted. The alinicnt has a considerable share in producing distempers, and that the winds eft'ect considerable changes in the luiman system, is an undubitable fact. As a proof, let us appeal to the experience of mankind in general, for who has not been sen- sible of the difi'erent etfects of a southerly or north cast wind ? The effects of intense heat, extreme cold, very dry, or moist weather, were circumstances particularly attended to ; and conclusions were deduced from experience, whether a prenailing distemper would be short, or of long continuance in a city. The division of distempers into endemic, and epidemic, have continued ever since ; and the distinctions between hereditary, or accidential diseases, mild, or malignant, were certainly judicious. The arrangement of diseases, according to their natural stages, under four general heads, was rational; as the commence- ment, augmentation, height, and decline, these have been the general divisions in all succeeding ages. The considering nature as the solejudgeand decider of diseases, and either acquitting or condemning a patient, by a fortunate or unfortunate crisis, was perfectly agreeable to the ancient simplicity of practice ; for successless will be the utmost efforts of the physician, to cure a disorder, unless nature joins in the salutary work. \Vhocver, therefore, attempts by too great a presumption in the powers pf the art, to expel a disease by violence, or on mistaken principles, will seldom have success, and not unfrequenlly commit irreparable mischief : sed cst 7tiodus in rebus. The notions of air, fire, earth, and water, being the elementary constituent principles of bodies ; may be assigned to the prevailing philosophy of the time; but these pliiloso|)hical prejudices, had no influence in his practice ; nor was he induced to try hazardous experiments, like some of the moderns, on many precarious principles, for which wise conduct he justly merits the highest encomiums. 'i'he opinion that the moon and stars, had considerable influence on human bodies, may be without injustice, considered a superstition ; but, the noticing the effects of the solstices, and equinoxes, as producing particular indispositions, is not unworthy attention. He did not assume a foreknowledge of future events, from the contemplation of the stars, like some modern astrological impostors; no, he principally regarded what diseases were most predominant at particular seasons, and gave the] most sensible directions for guarding agaiut their baneful influence. 'I’he knowledge of physiognomy, from which were formed many sensible conclusions, was the result of exquisite penetration and judgment ; by experience he arrived to an uncommon degree of certainty in his presages of life and death. Though this acquirement is much neglected by the moderns, who have made a point of substituting art for nature, yet few' indications are more certain than the countenance, to discover peculiar constitutions, or the events of diseases. How excellent is the discription of a dying person ? The face is represented with such exactness, that we have exhibited to view', all the mortal symptoms, at once collected in the countenance ; this admirable portraiture has been justly .admired in all ages, and obtained the aiipcllation of the fucks hippoerutku. The actions of the hands, as seemingly catching at something, jiicking the bed cloaths, are unfvivourable symptoms; the doctrine of the pulses was not clearly understood, but the accurate attention to all the other circumstances amply compensated for this defect. In chronic disorders, the diet was principally attended to 1 and regulated, very little medicine was administered, exercise, frictions, and baths were rerommended ; and what plan more judicious has even now been discovered ? The ideas of contrary indications, addition, and subtraction, the attending to wha^. the patient moiv easily', and what excited irritation, or uneasines; and the never admitting the repetition of a medicine, but as it agreed was productive of relief, are exceeding good practical doctrines, llleeding is recommended, in most of the disorders for which it is now prescribed, except in the dropsy; what success attended this evacuation in that disorder, he hath left us no testimony ; but it was certainly improper even to robust persons. Bleeding is not necessary, either in spring, or autumn,