XIV HISTORY OF MEDICINE. J’ytha^orns, was the first who prartisofl anatomy amongst the Greeks, according to Clialcidius tl:c commentator on Plato, ■who says, *' Alcmaon Crutoniauis in pfufsicU e.irrcitatus, qidque primus exsectionem (anatomcn) aggn’di ausiis csf, de oculi *' natura multa et preudara in haem protulit.” Lc Clerc also observes that he was the first w ho opened animals, and quotes the same passage, but in which there is nothing particular said about them. Indeed it is much to be doubted whether Alcimeon was a disciple of Pythagoras, if so, he certainly never opened living animals, because the Pythagoreans believed in the doctrine of transmigration of souls, and considered it sacrilege to hurt animals; if therefore he was the first, who pro- fessed anatomy, ho must have exercised his art, only on the dead bodies of men and animals. r.MPEDOCLES of Agfigcntum is supposed to have been colemporary with him, who was also from the school of Pythagoras, and an emineni physician, he likewise opened bodies, according to Plutarch, “ Auditum fieri docuit quando der allabitiir “ cockkiformi fahriae illi, quam in inferiori atiris parte exactc elaborafuin instar tintinnabuli suspensam esse et pulsari dixit.” From this it appears that the cochlea, a most abstruse part of the internal organ of hearing, was even taken notice of by Empedocles. As to Democritus it is generally admitted that he occupied a great part of his time and studies, by’ which he greatly injured his health, in dissecting animals, to discover the seat of the bile, and investigate the cause of madness ; on which account the Abderites wrote to Hippocrates, and solicited him, by’ considerable offers, to come to Abdera, and undertake the cure of Democritus, whom they believed to be mad. He came, and brought with him some hellebore ; but when he found Democritus profoundly occupied in contemplating nature, he said the Abflerites had more occasion for hellebore than him (Democritus), and after discoursing with Democritus, confessed himself instructed by the conversation. This subject is treated of in the letters between Hippocrates, Democritus, and the Abderites, which were published in the works of Hippocrates, but, by some of the literati, supposed to be spurious.* The sentiments, however, would do honour to any age or country. Galen • Tlicse letters are translated in my work on Female and Nervous Diseases, Gladness, &c. in four volumes, London, 1794, in which are most of . «jy writings in English. The letters were most probably published by his son amongst other posthumous works. “ One of the most ancient and most curious anecdotes concerning madness is amongst the works of Hippocrates, who was called by the Abderites to *' come to Abdera to cure Democritus of insanity. The embassy and epistles on this famous occasion demonstrate the origin of the doctrine of madness, as arising from black bile or melancholy, which opinion prevailed for above2000 years. “ The most considerable circumstance concerning Democritus is, the dissection of animals, to discover the cause of madness. His countrymen, ob- " serving him to pursue these kind of studies, which were very extraordinary in tbo.se ages; retiring and living in .sepulchres; engaged in the deepest •' contemplation ; they concluded, he was in a state of melancholy madness. This is no uncommon compliment to ail men of extraordinary genius, or " who possess an elevation of sentiment above the generality of cotemporaries. Democritus continually laughing, on all occasions, whether serii.uaor « mirthful, confirmed their suspicions. For this reason, they sent Amelesagoras, one of their chief citizens, to Hippocrates, tli&t most eminent phy- ‘‘ siciau at Cos, wit h the subsequent epistle. " The Senate and People of Abdera to Hippocrates, Health. " Our city, Hippocrates, is in very great danger, together with that person, who, we hoped, would ever have been its greatest ornament. But now, " (O ye gilds !) it is much feared, that we shall only be capable of envying others, since he, who through extraordinary study and learning, elevated •' the citv, is fallen sick ; so tliat it is much apprehended, if Democritus ncconie mad, our city Abdera will be desolate: for, wholly forgetting hiin- »' self, watching day and night, laughing at all things, small and great, and esteeming them as nothing ; he occupies, after this manner, his whole life. " One marries a wife ; another trades; another pleads ; another executes the office of magistrate; goes on an embassy; is choscnofficer bytlic people; " is rejected; falls sick; is wounded; dies: lie lagglts at all these: on beholding some to appear discontented; others pleased. He likewise m- quires, what is done in the infernal regions, writes his contemplations, and affirms the air to be full of atoms ; that be understands the language of " birds, and often, rising in the night, sings to himself; and says, that he sometimes travels into the infinity of things; and asserts that there be innu- •' merable Democritus’s like him. Thus, together by the exercise of his mind, he destroys his body. These are the things we fear, Hippocrates ! " these arc those which deeply afflict us. Come quickly, therefore, and preserve us by your advice. Despise us not; for we arc not inconsiderable ; “ and if you restore him, you shall not fail, either of money, or fame. Though you may prefer learning before wealth, yet accept ol tlie latter, which shall be presented to you in great abundance. “ To restore Democritus tp health, if our city were all gold, wc would give it. We think our laws, Hippocrates, arc sick. Come then, thou best of “ men, and cure a most excellent person. Thou wilt not come as a physician, but as the founder of all Ionia, to encompass us with a sacred wall. " Thou wilt not cure a man, but a city, a languishing senate: and prevent its dissolution : thus becoming our law-giver, judge, magisirate, and preserver. «' To this purpose we expect thee, Hippocrates ; all ihese, if you come, you will be to us. Itisnot a single obscure city, but all Greece, which implores “ thee to preserve this body of wisdom. Imagine that learning herself comes oa this embassy to thee, begging that thou wilt fr.ee her from this danger. “ Wisdom