XXXVlll HISTORY OF MEDICINE. He divided diseases into endemic, and epidemic, (o) Those wliich arc familiar and common to certain places, he called endemic. Such as rat{ed sometimes ni one jduce sometimes in another, and with uliich many were eijually seized, daring a certain space of time, he called epidemic disorders : such as the plague, the most terrible, not only of this, but of all other classes of diseases. He made a distinction between those disorders which arc hereditary, and those which are produced by accident. He looked upon some diseases, as mild and benign, and others obstinate and malignant. (p ) The former class was easily and ficcjuently cured, the latter created much trouble to the physician; often bafiled his skill, and put an end to the pa- tient’s life, in opposition to all medicines. lie considered the changes of diseases, under the four following heads. C<l) The beginning, augmentation, height, and decline. These changes, according to him, are produced by nature herself, who, as it were, sits in judgment, frj and either accpiits, or condemns the patient, by a favorable or unfavorable crisis. He meant, by nature, a principle which governs and precides in the animal ccconomy. The manner in which nature acts, upon this occasion, in order to destroy her enemv, is by reducing the humors that occasion the disorder of the whole body, to their natural state; with regard to their quality and quantity, their mixture and motion, the places they possess, and every other particular in which they may be faulty. .^mong the several means employed by nature for tliis purjjosc, Hippocrates laid the greatest stress on what he called the most perfect concoction of the humors. CsJ 'I'liis is nature’s first design; it is by this concoction, she renders herself mistress, and brings things to a favourable terndnation. The humors being reduced to this state, whatever is superfluous or hurtful, is spontaneously discharged, or at least eliminated by proper medicines, (t) When wliat is superfluous is evacuated; which happens cither by a discharge of blood, a flux of the belly, vomit, sweat, a discharge of urine, tumors, abscesses, the itch, eruptions, pustules, or spots in the skin; nature easily reduces other things to the same condition, in which she found them, before the attack of the disonlcr. The first thing Hippocrates considered, in acute diseases, was the visage of the patient, (u) It was, according to him, a 20od sign, when the patient had the countenance of a Iiealtliy person; and accordingly as it deviated from this state, there was a proportionable danger. He gives us the following description of a dying person. When, says he, the patient has a sharp nose, sunk eyes, hollow temples, cold and retracted cars, (x) the skin of the forehead hard, tense and dry, and a liviil and leaden colour; we may be sure death is not at a great distance : unless the patient has been e.xliaustcd by long watching, by a flux, or long fasting. This has been called, by pliysicians, the iV/aVs Jlijipocratica. Dull eyes, says lie, also presage death, or of great loss of strength. ^Vhcn persons labouring under ardent feveis, (y) arc always feeling for something with their hands, and putting them to their eves, as it were to take something away that jrasscs before them ; when they move their hands over the bed-cloatlis, as it were to seek for something, or to pick the flocks of wool out of them ; all these are signs of a delirium and death. He drew very few, or no conclusions from the pulse but, according to Galen, he was the first, who observed tlic beating of the arteries. lie says, the preservation of health, principally depends upon eating without satiety; and using suitable exorcise; for it is impossible for a person to continue in health, if he eats without labour; (a) because eating and exercise, mutually assist each otlier.f'ij Exercises consumes the superfluities of the aliment received into the body; and aliment again replenishes the body, and supplies the deficiencies of what is worn aw.ay, and consumed by exercise. lie strongly recommends moderation with respect to meat, drink, sleep, exercise, and venereal enjoyments. With (o) Divides diseases into endemic and epidemic. (p) Some diseases mild, others malignant. Clianges of diseases. ("r) Natur. (s) Coneoclion of the humorsi {l) Nature terminates disease by various means. (u) Ills judgment from the counteiiance. (x) The ancients had freer use of the cars than the moderns. j(y) Signs. (:) Oginius of Velia, or Elis wrote a treatise on the pulse, whether he lived before or after Ilipiiocralcs is not well-known. (uj Admirable observations oa diet, exercise and tcmperapcc. (b) De nut. vie. in. luorb. acut.