xviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. In another part of the work, mention will be made of Herophilus who first discovered the lymphatics, and Erasistratus, both of whom taught at Alexandria, and opened animals as well as human bodies. Their history belongs to later times, even Aristotle was posterior to Ilip]>ocrates, a considerable time. IIov/- " apply themselves to them; they condemn navigation, and yet sail on the sea; despise husbandry., then fall a plowing; put away their wives, “ then marry others ; they bury their children, beget more, and bring them up ; they wish to live long, and when old age comes, are grieved ; never P remaining constant in any state, whatever. Kings and princes commend a private life; private persons a public. He that rules a slate, praises the “ tradesman’s life, as free from danger ; tlie tradesman applauds the courtier, as full of honour and power; for they j)ursu' not the direct, true, and " smooth way of virtue, in wliich none of them will endure to walk, but crooked and rough paths. Some tumble down, others run lliciusclvcs out ot “ breath, to overtake superiors in fortune or reputation. Some are guided by incontinence to the beds of their lu ighhours : others arc sick ot a “ consumption, through insatiate avarice. Some, by ambition, are . ried up into the air, and through tlieir own wickedness thrown down hcad- “ long. They pull down, and thenthey build ; they do good, and oblige others, then repenting, break the laws of friendship, commit wrong, fall at " enmity, and fight with tlicir nearest relations ; of all which, avarice is the cause. Wherein do they dilfer from children liiaf [)lay, whose minds “ being void of judgment are pleased with every thing they meet with ? In their desires they difl'er not much from brute beast; only the beasts are " contcuted with that which is enough. What lion is tl'.erc that iiides gold under ground What bull fights for more than he needs.’ What leopard is. " insatiably greedy ? The wolf, when he has devoured as much as serves for his necessary nourishment, gives over; but whole days and nights put “ together are not sufficient for men to feast and riot. All brtde beasts have their yearly set times for coition, and then leave ; but man is continually " transported with lust. IIow can I, Hippocrates, but Jaagh at lum that laments the loss of his goods .’ and especially, if thout regard.to dangers, “ he travels over precipices and on the sea, how can 1 forbear to laugh e.'cceediiigly .’ .Shall I not laugh at him whose ship founders, by lading it with " rich merchandize, and then blames the sea for sinking it ? If I seem injudiciously to laugh at these, there is, at least, something that deserves to he. '• lamented. These stand not in need of the physic nor medicines of your predecessor, Hssculapius, who, preserving men, was struck dead by “ thunder*. Do you not see, that I am also partly guilty of insanity, who, to inquire into the causes of madness, dissect these several living animals, whereas, indeed, I ought to search for it in man himself ? Do you not see that the whole world is full of inhumanity,.stulled, as it were, with infinite “ hatred against man liirasclf? Man is from his very birth a disea>^c ; when first born he is useless, and sues for relief from otlicrs : when he grows up, “ foolish, wanting instruction : at full growth wicked; in his decaying age miserable, toiling, throughout all his time, imprudently. Such he is from “ the womb. Some being of furious, angry dispositions, are continually engaged in quarrels; others in adulteries and rajics ; some in drunkenness; “ others in coveting the goods of their neighbours ; others in consuming their own: so that if the walls of all housc.s, were Iraiisparcnf, wc should “ behold some eating : others vomiting; others wrongfully beaten; others rai.\ing poisons; others consjiiring; others casting accounts; others re- " joicing ; others weeping ; others plotting against their friends ; others raving mad with ambition. Some artions there are, more remote within tlic “ soul. Some young ; some old; suing; denying ; poor; rich ; starved ; luxurious ; sordid ; imprisoned ; murdered ; buried ; despising what they “ possess, and aiming at what they have not; impudent; niggardly; insatiate; vain glorious. Some setting their minds on horses; others ou " men; others on dogs; others on stone and wood. Some affect embassy ; others the command of armies; others sacred rites. Some wear crowns ; " others armor. Some fight at sea; others at land ; others till the ground. Some plead in the forum; otlicrs act on the theatre ; every one is dif- “ ferently employed. Some embrace pleasure and intemperance; others rest and idleness. How then, can 1 but laugh at llicir conduct ? It is to “ be feared that your art of physic will not please thtin; for intemperance produces frowardness, the.^’ esteem wisdom, madness; and I doubt mucli, that many things in j’our art are openly reproached, eillier through envy or ingratitude: for tlie sick, when tliey arc cured, ascribe the " cause either to the gods orcliancc. Many are of such a disposition as to hate those who have obliged them, and can hardly refrain from being an- " gry if they have occasion for assistance. Numbers also, being rlicmsclves ipiorant, prefer ignorance before science. Foots gwe their suffrages “ neither will the sick coiniiiciid ; iiortlicy who are of the same art give their approbation through envi/, It cannot be, but you must have suffered in- “ jury of this kind ; fori know very well, ihat you have often been treated unworthily, and reproached by malice and eiuy. There is no knowledge, " nor altestalioii of truth. In saying this, he smiled, and seemed to put on a divine look, casting off that which lie had before. Then, 1 said, ex- “ cellent Democritus, 1 shall carry hack with me to Cos the great gifts of your hospitality, full of your wise instructions. 1 shall return to proclaim " your praises ; for that you have ni..de inquiry into human nature, and understood it. I shall go away cured in mind, it being requisite, that I take “ care for tlic cure ot the bodies of others. To-morrow, and afterwards, we shall meet here again : which said, 1 arose, and he readily accompanied “ me. A man cametoliim, iro:u whence Ikno.v not, to whom he delivered his books. When I came to the Ahderites, who all thi.s while staid for " me. Men of .\bder.i, said I, 1 return you many thanks for the message you sent; for I have seen Democritus, the wisest of men, who only is able to reduce men to souud understanding. This, Daniagetus,is all I have, with pleasure, to relate to^you concerning Democritus. Farewell! These epistles give an admirable description of that most excellent of men, Hippocrates, whose noble soul exerted its utmost efforts to relieve the afflicted, and prove serviceal.le to society : — an example well worthy of imitation—an example which, if followed, must raise medical reputation above all the detraction and calumnies of malicious enemies. Great, however, as Hippocrates was, his superior excellence excited envy among physicians of inferior abilities; these frequently compose the majority in most liberal professions. Great minds only can pursue noble objects, and “ attempt I • aEsculapius, the fabulous hislories inform us, was destroyed by thunder,