( 110 ) OCCIPITAL BONE. SITUATION. Al the back and inferior part of the skull. FIGURE. Oblong square. DIVISION. Into external and internal surfaces. EXTERNAL PROTUBERANCES, ARE t. Occipital tubercle in the middle of the bone. 2. Basilary process, which extends from the great occi- pital foramen to the sphenoid bone. 3. Condyloid processes, which are situated at the sides of the great occipital foramen, and are received into the articulating fovete, orxavities of the first vertebra of the neck^ INTERNAL PROTUBERANCES, ARE 1. Crucial spine in the middle of the internal surface, which is divided into four rami, or processes. Superior ramus for the scythe-like, or faciform process. Two lateral rami for the tentorium of the cerebellum. One inferior ramus, to which the septum of the cerebellum adheres. THE INTERNAL CAVITIES ARE 1. Two excavations on the inferior margins, which form the rugged foramen. 2. The great occipital foramen, through which the spinal marrow passes, and the vertebral arteries, as well as the accessory spinal nerves enter. '3. Two anterior condyloid foramina before the condyloid processes, which give passage to the ninth pair of nerves, going to the tongue. 4. Two posterior condyloid foramina behind the condy- loid processes, by which the occipital vein passes out. THE EXTERNAL CAVITIES ARE J. Two superior occipital fossce, or cavities, which re- ceive the posterior lobes of the brain. 2. Two inferior occipital fossa?, which receive the cere- bellum. 3. A fossa, or cavity, for the medulla oblongata in the basilary process. 4. Superior furrow of the 'crucial spine, in which the superior longitudinal sinus is situated. 5. Two lateral furrows for the lateral sinuses of the dura mater. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES. 1. With the parietal bones. 2. temporal bones. 3. sphenoid bone. 4. articulating fo\cae of the first vertebra of the neck by its condyles. USES. Forms the posterior and inferior part of the skull, contains the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, all the cerebrum, and medulla oblongata, and is used in the articulation of the head. TEMPORAL BONES. SITUATION. At the sides, and inferior part of the skull. FIGURE. Irregular. DIVISION. Into three portions ; namely, squamous, mamillary, petrous. EXTERNAL PROCESSES ARE 1. The zygomatic apophyses, which arise from the squamous portion. 2. The articulating turbercle, which are the origin of the zygomatic apophyses, and are situated before the ar- ticulating fovete. 3. The styloid apophyses, arising from the petrous portions. 4. The mastoid apophyses, which are in the mamillary portion, to which the sterno-mastoideus muscle is affixed. EXTERNAL CAVITIES ARE 1. The articulating foveae to the inferior pait. 2. The external opening of the auditory passage, which is on the external surface. 3. The stylo-maistoid foramen, through which the hard portion of the auditory nerve passes. 4. Carotid canal in the petrous portion, through which the great intercostal nerve passes out, and the internal carotid artery enters. 5. An excavation in the petrous portion, which, in con- junction with the occipital bone, forms the rugged fo- ramen, or foramen lacerum. 6. The eustachian tube, which passes through a cavity of the tympanum, between the petrous and squamoui portion of this bone. internal cavities are 1. The internal auditory passage in the back part of the petrous portion, through which the soft part of the auditory nerve passes. 2. The, intf'rnal orifice of Fallopius's aqua?duct, which i* in the cavity of the internal auditory passage, and receives thp harder portion of the auditory nerve. CON-