To e.x.tcnd the toes,. ( *5 ) PLATE XIII. The third Layer of the Muscles on the anterior Tart of the Body. I O' 1 ON THE HEAD AND NECK. Name and origin. Insertion. Levator labii supcrioris, alceque nasi; from the supe- Into the upper lip and root of the rior maxilla. ala of the nose. Orbicularis oris; ^when all the other muscles are taken off. c. Buccinator. Depressor labii inferioris; ftom the infeiior maxilla. Into the uadcr-lip and skin of the Stcrno-thyroidcus; from the sternum. Scalenus medius; ■ from the transverse processes of the neck. chill. Into the thyroid cartilage. Into the uppermost rib. the thunk. Actum. To draw the upper lip down and. backwards. To pull upwards the lips and chin.. To draw the larynx downwards. To move the neck on both sides, and to raise the ribs, &c. Tntercostalcs extemi; obliquely from every rib. From one rib to another. I To elevate the ribs in respiration* Intercostalcs iniemi; from the sternum and the ribs. Into the obtuse angle of the ribs, j &c. IVaiisversalis abdominis, d. The inferior part of the tendon of the Iran si crsails, passing before the rectus and the pyramidalis,. here cut off. Between those portions, on both sides, is the peritona:um and ligamenta vesicae urinarim, which formerly were the umbilical arteries and ligaments. Between this part and tlie os pubis is seen the spermatic cord. The inferior margin of the upper transverse tendon, which passes behind the rectus, and adheres to the peritonaeum. The interior lamella of the obliquus interuus ; between f. and g. is the posterior lamella. I'he linea alba, from which the tendon of the obliquus, and the anterior lamella, of the internal obliquus, were dissected*- g. Umbilicus, SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Subscapularis ; from the inner surface of the scapula. Into the inner protuberance of the os humeri. Teres minor; from below the scapula. Coraco brachialis; from the coracoid process. Brachialis interuus; from the middle of the humerus. Into the neck of the humerus. Into the middle of the humerus. Into the coronoid process of the ulna, Into the olecranon and the conr dyles of the humerus.. Into the bone of the metacarpus. Into the last joint of the thumb. To roll the humerus inwards to. the side of the body, and to prevent th&ligament from being, pinched. To draw the,humerus backwards,. To move forwards and upwai'ds*. To bend the fore-arm. To extend the fore-arm. To extend the hand. To bend the last joint of the thumb. Brachialis evternus, or caput tertium tricipitis ; 'from the os humeri. Extensor carpi radialis longior ; from the os humeri. Flexor longus pollicis tnanus ; from the ujiper part of the radius and condyle. Flexor profundus perforans ; is divided in four tendons, passing under the annular ligaments of the,wrist, to the third bones of the fingers. Pronator radii quadratus ; from the inferior inner To the lower part of the radius. To turn the radius together with, part of the ulna. the hand inwards. Adductor metacarpi minimi digiti; from the os un- Into the metacarpal bone of this To bring the finger toward the ciforme. finger. rest. Unus lumbricalium; the other three appear also along the tendons of the flexor profundus, and under them are the interossei interni. THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. a, Glutceus minimus ; from the spinous process of the Into the back part of the trochan- ilium. b. lliacHS interuus ; from,the transverse processes of the vertebrae in the loins. Inward, between 6. and e. is the pioas magnus. d. Adductor breviifemorii;' e. Adductor magnus; f. Gracilis i from, the osipubis, g. Caput bicipitisJlexoris cruris ; from the os ischium. h. , Peronxus longus; from the fore part of the fibula. ter major. Into- trochanter minor femoris. A O ' from the os pubis. Into the linca aspera. Into the tibia under the sartorius. Behind into the fibula. Into the outside of the metatarsal bone. Into the second phalanx.. |i> Peronxusbrciis; from the upper part of the fibula. 'Between the peronaeus and tibia is to be seen the tibialis posticus k. The tendon of the tibialis posticus, covering the tendon of Oxc flexor longus digitorum pedis \L Pjxtcmor brevis digitorum-pedis; from.the fure part of Ifito the. next toes, the os calcis.. To pull the femur outwards and. backwards. To bend the thigh, &c. To bring the thigh inwards.. To bend the leg.. As the former. To move the foot outwards.. To bend the four toes..