I THE u. if HISTORY OF MEDICINE; TRANSLATED FROM THE LATIN EDITION OF SCHOLA MEDICINJE. ' - f TThe origin of all things is obscure, and involved in the dark clouds of fabulous history. Credulous antiquity honoured the first inventors of the Arts and Sciences, by placing them amongst the gods; yet the Pagans themselves ^annot deny that they were men. The invention of many things, as well as Medicine, began with the first inhabitants of the world ; but this, from its object—the preservation of life—became more useful to mankind than any other. Every consecration arose from the utility or benefits that eminent men rendered to society: for it will be difficult to find any personage, who has attained to such dignity, without having done some essential services. Experience gave rise to Medicine; opportunity, or the necessity of trial, gave origin to experience. Custom increased thtr stock of knowledge; for, in ancient times, the sick were exposed in public roads, to enquire of passengers, whether they had ever laboured under the same disease, and by what means they were cured. Another circumstance which assisted their acquisition of medical skill, was the custom of patients writing down the method by which they bad been relieved, and giving it to their priests to be deposited in the temples. That animal body, called Man, formed with the greatest ingenuity, increases, from a small beginning, by nourishment, assimilated, or prepared by various organs, and distributed to every part, by which it is preserved, and frequently conducted to a very advanced age, ultimately terminating in natural death. In a state of heakhy existence, it is capable of resisting various injuries from external causes, and even of overcoming their effects. The increase and preservation of the body are effected by its own peculiar actions: for example—by these actions the- nourishment or food is converted into chyle and blood, which, in its motion through different vessels, is so altered, as to restore those parts that were destroyed, or removed by tlie ordinary functions of life ; an increased, or diminished motion, frequently- disturbs these actions, renders the body weak, and unable to resist their effects : hence arise infirmities, and diseases; prematuie death, or a cessation of the vital functions, from the debility of protracted old age. A continuation of bodily strength depends on the equality of those actions, which are mostly regulated by moderate exercise, government of the passions, and plain diet: by these means, a strength of body is acquired, capable of making greater resistance against affecting causes; but increased motion of body or mind, various excesses, and a luxurious idle life- accelerate the approaches of diseases and death. What has been already said of the general changes of life, has been dictated by experience, and will be more particularly elucidated in its proper place; it will, however, explain why the first inhabitants of the earth, and those of the present day,, who practise rustic, or simple habits of life, are less subject to indisposition than those who depart from the best precepts of rational diet, and thus voluntarily rather destroy than preserve their health. But, various injuries of life—as change of atmosphere, or seasons; abstinence-, or excess; external violence, and b many