i.KXxvii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. (m) See Aulus gellius, Plutarch and Macfobiusj at) Dc usa part lib. IV. cap. 13. ("h) Wars of Syria, voi. II. I chyle, passes into the canals connected with the reservoir of the bile, and the pure blood passes into the vena cava, and tak- ing another course, is separated from the bile. (1) Galen makes Erasistratus say, that the veins are divided in the liver, for the separation of the bile. Erasistratus owned, that the urine was separated in the kidneys ; but he did not acknowledge, with Hippocrates, that it was done by attraction ; for he entirely rejected this sort of attraction, though he, in no place, explains himself with regard to the manner in which the separation is made. Some of his first followers believed, as Galen informs us, that the parts above the I kidneys received only pure blood ; that what is aqueous, or charged with serosities, tends downward by its owm weight ; and that after this blood is separated from the aqueous, and useless part, it is carried to the parts above the kidneys to nourish I them. It is necessary to observe, that Erasistratus rectified Plato, on the use of the arteria trachea, through which Plato imagined ' the drink was carried, in order to water the lungs. This opinion was common to Plato, with Philistion, and Hippocrates, and the most eminent physicians of that age. (m) \ Herophilus, and Erasistratus, were the only persons, who among their cotemporaries, had the advantage* of being allowed j to dissect a competent number of the bodies of condemned criminals, by the special concessions of two kings; both of them ' courageous and learned; both of them formed to magnanimity under their master, Alexander the Great, and who, after his decease, became the founders of two flourishing kingdoms; the one, Ptolemy, of Egypt, who kept near him Herophilus ; the other Seleucus, of Syria, who wdth a most ample salary*, as Appian informs us, retained, to his immortal honour, Erasistratus I at his court. (nj OBSERVATIONS. THE protection of princes is absolutely necessary for the improvement and cultivation of science. Alexander the Great, for his liberal attention to the erudite Aristotle, and favours to the arts; and the Ptolemies for their solicitude in encouraging learning, have immortalised themselves. Whoever royalty favours, the magnates imitate, in all courts, and an attention to science becomes the order of the day. Those are the wisest princes who promote the cause of literature ; those the weakest, who suffer learning and learned men to : perish. Where the arts flourish, a government is likely to obtain permanency ; but where ingenious men and literature, are neg- lected, it may rouse a dangerous spirit, subversive of empire. The same arts, which render a reign glorious, may, under op- I pression, create dissatisfaction, tumult, and rebellion; it therefore becomes an indispensiblc duty in princes and nobles, to shower their favours on the really ingenious, who are better enabled to promote royal interest, than the servile flattering sycophants, who often receive approbation, when they deserve punishment. Alexander said, by means of my parents I came into the world, but Aristotle has made me a man. The intellectuals of the great Stagyrite, however defective in human anatomy, was a prodigy in science and critical learning ; his poetics, logics, and other works, demonstrate sublimity of genius, and industry unparalled. ON MSCLIPIADES, AND OTHER EMINENT PHYSICIANS. LET us now take a view of the practice of medicine amongst the Romans; for these people, from an inconsiderable origin, I became the greatest nation on earth. Their increase of wealth, power, and territory, was gradual, and for several ages from I the building of Rome, they were continually engaged in war. Effeminency and luxury had not prevailed; the art of medicine I was found unnecessary, and there were few or no physicians amongst them. But as they extended their territory, wealth I flowing from all quarters, luxury, extravagance, and supineness, succeeded their natural frugality, simple diet, and athletic i • exercises. I