Cl HISTORY OF MEDICINE The actions of the human body cannot be well explained, without an accurate knowledge of experimental philosophy; for if any person be ignorant of the nature and properties of air, he will never understand how respiration is performed in the lungs of living beings ; nor can he understand the action of arteries, unless he be acquainted with the laws of elastic bodies ; he will not bs able to explain the phaenomena of sight, without exactly comprehending the properties of luminous matter : nor arrive at a knowledge how hearing is experienced, if he be not well versed in the doctrines of sound. Our body is a true hydraulic machine, in which the various humours flow by an uninterrupted motion, with great celerity in a circular di- rection ; therefore the laws of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and every thing relative to mechanics, arc necessary to be known by ' every physician ; but it must be confessed, that the mathematical sect have been frequently led into errors and very often de- ’ ceived in their speculations, by applying general mechanical laws to the human body, without sufficiently considering the particular properties of bodies. The passage of coagulablc viscid blood through elastic, flexible arteries, is very difi'erent from I the flowing of limpid incompressible water, through rigid metallic tubes, the resistance of which in respect of the contained ! fluid is inconsiderable, therefore, conclusions from such principles arc fallacious. Besides the mechanical physicians have erred, by believing that all the phenomena of nature, could be resolved by the laws 1 of mechanics; hence, to explain the action of purging or vomiting, they imagined the medicine composed of certain pointed |i particles, possessing a power of reversing the stomach ; and others of a contrary figure to excite purging, j The Cartesian physicians, were most attached to these humourous fictions, which, in their works, are carried to a length I truly ridiculous. Some of the members of the French academy, as Ilomberg, Lemery, Geoffroy, in accounting for chymical and physical phaenomena, have increased this subject with many things from their own imagination, tiring the reader with their intolerable farrago of particles; great philosophers, had they known when to have held their tongues ! Mechanical laws have I certainly, much influence in nature, but it is ridiculous to endeavour to explain all the phaenomena of natural things by me- I chanics ; as though various bodies were not liable to different laws ! As if the Creator, instead of his own, followed the ideas of his minute creatures! Who will ever clearly explain tons the solution, attraction, repulsion, gravity, and elasticity, of bo- : dies, by mechanical laws ? Who, on mechanical principles, will demonstrate the circulation of the blood, the continued (' systole, and diastole of the heart, when perpetual motion is not attained from mechanics ? Who will derive the phaenomena of II sensibility and irritability from mechanics, when no machine, except the body of a living animal can shew signs of sensibility, I or irritability. Let us, therefore, make use of physical, chemical, and mechanical inventions in physic; but let us use them ( in such a manner as to confess they are limited, and that nature is not reducible to any one particular doctrine. I From all these circumstances it appears, that this most ancient art consisted, at first, only in a faithful collection of observa- '! tions, and afterwards, it was thought necessary to investigate the causes of experiment, by discussing the reason of those causes. We saw in the history of medicine, that, in early times, it was inculcated empirically, that is, from attentive observation of salubrious and destructive things, that analogy was afterwards added, that ultimately, men began to reason on causes; parti- I cularly after philosophers had rendered the study of medicine familiar. Hence, Cclsus was very right in saying, that me- ; dicine arose from observation only. “ Subinde aliorum salute, aliorum interitu, perniciosa discernentem a salutaribus, lie- ; “ pertis dcindc medicinx remediis, homines de rationibus eorum disserere expisse ?iec post rationem, medicinam esse inventam ; sed j “ post inventam medicinam rationem esse qvxsitam." Prsefat. p. 9, 10. It is certainly obvious that the first part of medicine, called emperica, was always alike, not fallacious, for experience under ' similar circumstances is always equal, and does not deceive ; and this is the reason why the practical writings of Hippocrates, ! and other ancient authors, containing observations only, must remain unshaken. For the same phaenomena that took place, many centuries ago, in pleurisy, phrenitis, &c. are observed to be the same at present, in persons labouring under these dis- ! eases. It is likewise equally certain that contemplative medicine, in later days, was liable to be fallacious, and led to errors, particularly if the physician assume foryhe^i, such things as were never demonstrated ; or if he draw such conclusions by rea- soning from experiments as were not deducible from them. As if any one, after proving by experiment, that every animal is suffocated by being deprived of air, should wish to infer that air is the cause of respiration ; for he then forms a conclusion I that is by no means proved by the experiment; but if he should infer that air is necessary to respiration, he is right, and only affirms what is in the experiment. Hence, experience itself is certain, but reaioni/ig liable to error. But it does not thence follow, tliat medicine is to be deprived of the use of reasoning, on the contrary, it is of the greatest importance. For rea- . soiling docs not mislead us, if drawn from unbiassed experience; if it be proved again by other experiments, for medicine, I d d indeed,