HISTORY OF iVIEDICINE xcvl lived bcforft the Ca?sars,bi'causc he wrote in the Ionic dialect, which afterwards began to fall into disrepute: butLeCIerc justly denies it; for Aretseus mentions the antidote against the bite of vipers, invented by Andromachus, physician to Nero, and the theriaca of Mithridates, by which it follows that he lived after Mithridates, and could not have been anterior to Andromachus. Being acquainted with the dogmas of ancient physicians, he also assisted the art by his own labours, and was the first that reduced medicine into a system, by collecting every thing that had been written separately on diseases by Hippocrates* and other celebrated physicians, and compressing them into one volume; he has given us better and more correct histories of diseases, and more perfect cures than the. physicians before his time; he was the first that used cantharides e.xternally to raise a blister ; he established the utility of bleeding, and regulated the quantity of blood necessary to be taken ; pointed out the most convenient places to open a vein, and, in certain cases, recommended arteristomy. He wrote four books on the signs of acute and chronic diseases ; and four books likewise on their cure. Boerhaave published the best edition of his works at Leyden, 1735, in folio, with the commentaries of Petit and other learned men. The order of history brings us to Galen, omitting the authors of less note, after Celsus and Aretaius. He was born at Pergamus, a city of Asia minor, in the one hundred and thirtieth, or one hundred and thirty’-first year of Christ, in the reign of the Emperor Hadrian; his father’s name was Nico, under whom and other learned men, he learned philosophy, and the polite arts; he first studied in the schools of the Stoics, then of the Academics, Peripatetics, and Epicureans. Afterwards, when he was about seventeen years of age, by the advice of his father, he began to study medicine, and had various preceptors. When a young man, being desirous of farther information, he travelled to Alexandria, in Egypt, where-the study of medicine was then in great repute; he remained there two years, and returned to Pergamus, not only skilled in physic, but also in surgery ; and, after remaining four years, he left his own country, and went to Home, in his thirty-second year. He soon found the physicians of this place his adversaries, but easily gained a superiority over them, both by his learning and success in practice. After having resided five years, a plague raged at Rome, and he returned to his own country ; but he was soon solicited to return by the emperors, M. Aurelius, and Lucius Verus. He returned to Rome, and Lucius Verus, in the mean time, having died, he attached himself to Aurelius, whose sons Commodus and Sextus, and even the Emperors, he cured at different times in fevers. Suidas says, he died in his seventieth year, and it appears, from his own writings, that he lived under the emperors Anto- ninus, M. Aurelius, Lucius Verus, Commodus, and Severus. He travelled over Syria, Cyprus, and Cicilia ; he made a voy.< age to the Island of Lemno, out of curiosity, to sec the Lemnian earth ; and into Palestine to find Opobalsam. He was certainly a man of the greatest genius, and considerable, experience; he could tell by the pulse, at the first attack of a tever, whether it would be a tertian, or quartan, Ac. and how long it would last. He predicted the time that the com- plaint of a certain patient, who was about to be blooded, would terminate in a crisis of hemorrhage from the nose ; and pos- terity arc much indebted to hjm for elucidating the writings of Hippocrates ; and no person, indeed, has followed the sense of those works better than Galen. He was a bold and successful surgeon, for he relieved a man labouring under an abscess in the. mediastinum, by perforating the sternum, which was a most dangerous operation, and he must have had a most accurate knowledge of the disease and part affected. His books de usu partium, shew that he was a most excellent anatomist; in these wc find many facts relating to anatomy, and physiology, some of which have been, by modern authors, copied and published as new discoveries. All his works have been edited with those of Hippocrates, by Renatus Chartciius, which is the best edition. He corrupted medicine with the tenets of the pcripefetic philosophy, by introducing his comments on the four elements, from which he explained every thing, and seems lo have been highly prepossessed in favour of the number fovir. He believed that those four elements formed all bodies, earth, air, fire, and water; that every thing was different from the various proportion of these constituent ck'ments : ho also made four cardinal qualities, which ho attributed to simple ele- ments, as well as compounds; for example, ho called fire, hot and dry by nature; air, hot and moist; water, cold and moist; earth, cold and dry. Then, from these principles, he concluded, that there existed in the human body four primary humours: I. Yellow bile, partaking of the quality of fire, being hot aud dry, H. Blood, which resembles air, hot and moist. 111. Phlegm^