HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ix a pain in her belly, .and side, attended with rigour, and a fever; which sometimes vanish when they are discharged. Though | for the most part, the placenta putrifies if left, and comes away the sixth or seventh day ; and sometimes later. In this case the patient is to liold her breath internally, she is to take mngwort, dittany of Crete, flowers of white violets, leaves of agnus castus, with garlic boiled or roasted, small onions, castor, spikenard, rue, and black wine. Sneezing medicines being ad- ministered, ('oj and both the nose and mouth, presently kept shut expel the secundine, or after birth. If the secundincs come not away with ease, the child must be left hanging to them, fpj and the woman seated on a high stool, that the foetus by its weight may pull them along, and lest that might be too suddenly effected, yj the child may be laid on wool newly plucked ; or on two bladders, filled with water, and covered with wool, which being punctured as the water is evacuated, they will subside, and the child sinking gradually, will gently draw the secundincs away; but should the funis be broke, proper weights must be tied to it, to answer the same purpose, which are the easiest, and least hurtful methods of extracting the placenta. If the woman has had a difficult labour, and could not be delivered, without the help of machines, the child is generally weak; and therefore the naval string ought not to be divided, f r) until the child should have either urined or sneezed, or ciicd aloud ; and in the mean time, it must be kept very near the mother, for though the child does not seem to breathe at first, nor give any other signs of life, the naval string, by remaining uncut, may be in a little time inflated, and the life of the infant saved. When an inflammation of the womb happens, comes the disease of the right gut, called tenesmus, (s) which is an inclina- > tion to discharge the f^ces, without performing it; and also a strangury, because the inflammation presses both parts, so that j neither the urine, nor excrement can be retained. I An inflammation in the uterus of a pregnant woman is mortal, (t) If the uterus, in that part which rests upon the hip bone, be suppurated, the cure must be wrought by lint or wool, dipped in convenient medicines, (u) stranguary succeeds an inflammation of the intestinum rectum, or an inflammation of the uterus, (xj or suppurated kidneys; but a hiccough succeeds the inflammation of the liver. Now conceri'.ing ages. To little children, and new born babes, happen those diseases ; (pJ ulcers of the mouth, vomitings, ! cough, watchings, tremblings, inflammations about the navel, and moistness behind the ears. When they breed teeth, there happen itchings, and pricking of the gums, (zj fevers, convulsions, fluxes of the belly, especially when they bring forth their j dog teeth. These things happen chiefly to those who are very gross, fat, and costive in their habits. But when they are J somewhat older, they are subject to inflammations of the glands of the cars, dislocations of the vertebra of the neck, ("a) asthmas, the stone, round worms, and others thin and small, called ascarides, long warts, continual erection of the penis, stranguries, glandular tumors, about the neck, and ether kinds of tubercula ; but especially those above mentioned. Many of the foremc-ntioned diseases, are also incident to those who have attained riper years; (bj but especially diurnal fevers, and nasal hemorrhages. Most diseases of children come to a crisis within forty days, some within seven months, some within seven years, (c) others when they come to years of maturity. But those which shall continue longer, and neither be resolved when they come to the age of fifteen, or sixteen, in male children, and in female children, when their menstrua begin to appear, do continue so while they live. CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN, CHILDREN, AND MIDWIFERY, . OF HIPPOCRATES. VARIOUS are the indispositions arising from a suppression of the menses; but, if an appearance of daemons, or rather a disturbed imagination, similar to a delirium, happened in Greece; in these northern parts such symptoms seldom occur. The (o) 1 Motb. mul. LXXVI. 6,7. 11 Morb XLIII. 67. Coac. III. 175. Prspnot. XIII. 11. 11 Epid. V. 42. (p) De superfoetalionc. {q) A carious, though complex method of delivering the placenta.. (rj Navel string not to be cut. (s) Lib. I. De morb. mul. (t) 1 Morb. mul 111,9,11. 11 Morb. mid. LVIll 22, 29. Natur. mul. XII. 17. Aph. 43. Sect. AL (it) Nat. mul. VI. 5. VIII. 5. 1 Morb. mul XCI. 32. 11 Morb. mul. XXIX. 5. Aph, 47. Sect. V. (x) Defist. HI. 1. IV. 1 Aph. 58. Sect. V, ' (y) Aph. 24. Sect. HI. (a) Aph. 26. Sect. III. (6) Aph. 27, Sect, HI, (s) Aph. 25. Sect. Ill, (c) Aph. 28. Sect. lU,