HISTORY OF MEDICINE Ixxvii mortal. The Argians erected a statue of gold to his honour, and the Athenians decreed a crown of the same metal; passed an act, that himself and descendants should be maintained in the Prytaneum; and they initiated him into the great mysteries, an honour rarely conferred on strangers, and never before on any but Hercules; and he has left behind him, in bis works, an immortal reputation; for he has been always considered the original interpreter of nature; and it is highly probable he will ever preserve his glory, which above two thousand years have not yet robbed him of. And though, even BOW, some designing professors make a point of obscuring the brightness of his fame, by unmeaning sneers, and dark insinuations; yet we are of opinion, that our ancient author will revive, and receive additional lustre, when the works of such men perish, and are lost in that oblivion they justly merit. This excellent man died in Thessaly, in the second year of the iiundred and seventieth olympiad, three hundred and forty-nine years before the birth of Christ, and was buried between Larissa and Gortooa. CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON DOCTRINES OF THE PHILOSOPHERS. I AND THE STATE OF PHYSIC, FROM THE DEATH OF HIPPO- CRATES TILL THE TOTAL SUBVERSION OF THE GREEK EMPIRE. IN every age there appears an insatiable thirst after knowledge; and those men arc highly laudable who endeavoui-, with j industry, to explain the hidden secrets of nature; but there is a wide difference between the attempt, and the real acquisition of learning. It has unfortunately happened, amongst the ancient philosophers, to mistake the contemplation of nature, for ' a penetration into her most secret actions. AVhere enquiries fell short, and judgment was at a stand, an unbridled imagination was substituted, and thus conjecture was built on conjecture, hypothesis on hypothesis, and the more apparently mysterious \ and false were the doctrines; so have they ever been received with the greater avidity. The opinion of Plato, concerning the different souls, with their situation in the human body, is a lively instance of ther arrogance and presumption of this philosopher; and yet he was universally esteemed, and obtained, in all ages, the appel— , lation of the Divine Plato. His great reputation principally arose from discoursing on the soul; not because he explained himself clearly on this sublime subject, for all his reasonings are exceedingly futile, absurd, and, in a great measure, abso^ lutely false. Then who can forbear smiling, when Plato is called, the Divine Plato? As well might an ignorant artificer bo I called a great architect, physician, or mathematician; because he discourses very idly and superficially on architecture, physic, or mathematics. It is a great reflection ou human nature, and mankind in general, that the most incoherent doctrines have been universally received, without examination, in every age. What a variety of opinions have been de- I livered, on the constituent principles of bodies, and yet few have has been demonstrated; nor has any one failed of meeting with I advocates, who have exerted themselves to the utmost, in support of the several doctrines advanced. This has ever been a 1 fatal curiosity in the mind of man, which can never be satisfied; plain, simple truths, are neglected, and yet, so confined isf ' human comprehension, that the least deviation from truth, is liable to lead us into a labyrinth of eternal error. Whatever are the opinions in philosophy, if the points be merely speculative, a variety of conjectures are unimportant to society int general; but when fallacious doctrines are introduced into the medical art (an art that should be only practical) it' their I becomes a serious matter, for the salvation or destructioq of human beings, in sickness, depend on the justness of it^ laws. ‘ But men rather wish to appear learned than to be really so; and the majority of a profession will ever assent to the fashionable and prevailing doctrines, however repugnant to common sense. To understand preva ling doctrines, requires little labour or industry, or strong mental powers; but to detect their fallacy, and publicly expose-their evil tendency, is a ’ work of infinite application. Men have been diverted from such honest purposes, from fearing the clamour raised on these I occasions; and indeed it requires no small share of intrepidity and resolution; to stem the torrent of falsehood, at’a time when I a setvile compliance is the sure road to wealth and honour. It is but lately that the Aristotlean doctrines have been refuted. This can only be accounted for from that prevailing spirit in men; for the learned have ever united with great spirit in ! suppressing