( 5 ) PLATE III. Of the Bones and their Connections, That part of anatomy which treats of ihc bones is called OSTEOLOGIA. The bones are considered in the state when all the soft parts are entirely taken away ; or when some ef them are left upon the bones. Thus, Osteoloay is divided into dry and recent, or moist. ’ 0.9, the bone, is the hardest, most compact, inflexible, and least sensible part of the body, composed of many small lamcHee, originating themselves from hard, rigid fibres, most closely attached and united one to the other, in their proper situation. . When the elements of the body, longitudinally, and in a series meet one another, then arise the osseous when these fibres laterally join together, then are produced the bony lamcUce, or tables, between them is the effused, and gradually coagulating gluten left: this is the origin of the bones. '1 hat point, where the ossification has first appeared, is called the Punctum Ossificationis. r. 1. A 6onc is flat, cylindrical, or irregular. 2. In substance compact, (d) spongious, cellular, reticular, from the closer adhesion or separation of the osseous fibres, or cohering particles. 3. I’hc chemical analysis shews phlegm, salt, oil, volatile spirit, and calcareous earth.* 4. The texture consists in laminated longitudinal scaly fibres, with transverse fibres, which may be called Clavicular, (d) Represents the inferior part of the thigh bone, with its lamellae in their true situation. The parts of the bones are: I. Diapkysis. A is the body of the bone, which first grows hard, and is the foundation of the rest. II. (aj Apophyses, or proemw, are the various prominent parts of the diaphysis: the round apophyses are called condyls, capita, or heads; others from their shapes are named cervix, neck; spina, spine; mucro, corona, stylus, &c. and they cannot be separated by boiling. (b) Epiphyses are the osseous protuberances, which by intervention of a cartilage adhere to the bone; and they se- parate from the bone by boiling, they are cartilaginous in children, harden with age, but remain always spongy. III. Cavities, there are many large or small, (cj Foramina, or perforated holes. The vessels and nerves pass through them. (d) Meatus, are the interior cavities in which the marrow is contained. (ej Sinus are the impervious cavities on the surface of the bones, and serve: 1. ) To form articulations i when they are deep they are called cotyle, or acetabulum; when shallow, glcne, sinus gle~ noideus. 2. ) To receive other parts, and arc namedas orbits of the eye; w'hen they have a long extent, they are called sulci, furrows. Of the articulations of the bones. IV. The articulations of the bones are made for the sake of motion. The articulation, with a manifest motion, is threefold, and called Diathrosis, but is subdivided into CfJ Enarthrosis, or profound articulation; when a great head of a bone is received in the fovea, or deep acetabulum of another bone, e. g. the head of the thigh bone in its ace- tabulum. (g) Arthrodia, or a superficial articulation; as the os hu- meri is connected with the scapula, or shouhler-bone, where its round head is received in the less deep fovea. (h) Ginglymus, a mutual, reciprocal articulation, when a bone receives, and is received by another. Synarthrosis, or articulation with an obscure motion ; Tike the bones of the carpus, and tarsus, with the bones of the metacarpus and metatarsus. A?nphyarthrosis, or articulation with an imperceptible mo- tion, as in the bones of the carpus and of the tarsus. \. Symphysis, a concretion, when the united bones arc immoveable. The immediate are: (i) Raphe, or suture, when two bones are mutually In- dented into one another, like the teeth of a saw. The true futures are : 1. the coronal; 2. sagittal; 3. lamb- duid, or ypsiloid: or they dira spurious, like those on the tem- ple bone.-f Harynonia, when the mark of union is like a line, as in the bones of the nose. (V) Comphosis, when the bones run one into another like a nail in a wainscot, as the teetli in the maxillae, or jaw-bones. The mediate are, when other parts concur together; as (m) Synchondrosis, when the bones are joined by cartila- ges, like the ribs with the sternum. Cn) Syneurosis, or, rather syndesmosis, by means of liga- m^ts. (o) Syyitenosis, when the bones are joined by means of tendons. fp) Synymensis, when the bones are connected by mem- branes. (q) Syssarcosis, when they are connected together by muscles. frj Shews the radiatingof a bone. A is the central part of the os frontis, more perfect than the others, and where ossification first commences. • Chemistry has lately made important discoveries in analyses, &c. C