-\xi HISTORY OF MEDICINE. disciple and successor of Hippocrates, who made no change in the established dogmas; and preferred serving his own country to going abroad on more advantageous conditions: from which it appears, that Hippocrates educated pupils in Medicine. Soranus confirms this; and the oath of Hippocrates proves it: therefore he did not reserve the Medical Art, exclusively, for his own family, as the Asclepiades had done, but taught it to others, who were not related to him, preferring humanity to the desire of gain. The most eminent of these pupils were Prodicus, Dexipus, and Apollonius. Those who wish to sec a more circumstantial account of Hippocrates, and these persons, may consult writers on Medical History, particularly Le Clcrc and Schulz. After the death of Hippocrates, however, his tenets did not fall into disrepute; and although we find, by his book De Veteri Medicind, that several sects of Physicians existed in his time, yet Hippocratic learning continued to prevail, and remained a long time cultivated in the family of Asclepiades, even down to the time of the Emperor Claudius, when Xenophon of Cos, Physician to that Emperor, called himself one of the Asclepiades; and procured for the Coans, exemption from tribute. This can be cfearly shewn from Tacitus, who says—Annal. Lib. XII. p. vi. 249—“ Retulit dein (Claudius in. “ Senafu) de immunitate Cois iribuenda, mulfaque super antiquUute eorinn memoraxit: Argivos vel Coelum, I.afonce parentem, “ xetustissimos insula: cultores; mox adventu Msculapii artern medendi illatam maximeque inter posterus ejus celebrem “ ftiisse, nomiiia singulorum referens, et quisque quibus atatibus viguisseiif. Quin etiam dixit Xenophontem, ciijus scientia “ ipse uteretur, cadem familia ortum; precibusque ejus dandum, ut omni tributo xacui in posterum, Coi saauim, et tantum “ Dei ministram insulam colerent.” But the learning of Hippocrates did not remain all this time uncorrupted, nor amongst the Asclepiades only, but received various modifications by different persons, to the time of Arctajus, who does not seem to have lived till after some of the Homan Emperors. The succeeding part on the medical learning of Hippocrates, extracted from a much larger history of medicine than the present, written many years ago; will lend to illustrate, how far the justly celebrated physician extended the art, which was not previously reduced to order, or method. His aphorisms are written in a manner and style equal to Aristotle’s Poetics, and other extraordinary productions of the enlightened preceptor of Alexander the Great. OJV THE ANATOMY OF HIPPOCRATES; WITH CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS. V HAVING offered some conjectures concerning the ancient state of physic before Hippocrates ; the doctrines of that, great man are next to be delivered. But it may be proper, previous to the entrance of a subject so important, to mention something of the medical schools at different places. Herodotus says, there was a medical school at Gyrene, and a temple of Tisculapius erected, but the manner of worship dif- fered from the Greek, (aj The same author notices another, founded at Crotona, the country of Damocedes, a famous phy- sician contemporary with Pythagoras, who being banished from the city by the severity of his father Caiiphon, came first to iEgina ; and afterwards to Athens. Here he lived in great repute ; from whence he went to Samos, and cured Polycrates, king of that island, of a dangerous distemper. Some time after, he was taken prisoner, by the Persians ; and endeavoured to conceal his profession, but being discovered, he was compelled to undertake the cure of Darius, whose foot was dislocated, and his queen Atossa, who had a cancer in her breast. He succeeded in these cures, and had the honour of being admitted to the table of that great prince. Some time after, despising all honors, and by disguising himself, he retired from court, and returning into his ow'ii country, married the daughter of the famous Milo, (b) This is, however, the only remains of the physic of Damocedes, or of the Crotonian school. g Galen (b) h. famous strong man of Crotona, who is said to have carried an ox without breathing, the space of a furloQg. (a) Lib. 3.