IX HISTORY OF MEDICINE. related by iVflrce//«5 Potato, Lib. XL Cap. IV. of a noble Gaul, labouring under epilepsy, who was travelling, went to , Italy to consult the most eminent Physicians, but was robbed on the journey, and, amongst other injuries, received a dreadful wound on the forehead, with considerable loss of the bone : after remaining a long time under cure for this wound, which was at last healed, he was also relieved from the epilepsy, which usually attacked'him every month before. A girl, troubled witlrf epileptic fits, fell into the fire, and burnt her face and forehead in a most terrible manner : a considerable discharge of pus, and sanies flowed from the wound, and she was free from her complaint, whilst it continued ; but when the discharge ceased, her complaint (epilepsy) returned.—Willis’s Patholog. Cerebri. Cap. III. Such accidents proving advantageous to persons afflicted with these complaints, induced Physicians to try similar remedies; therefore we find incisions on the head, cantcrizing the scalp down to the external table of the cranium, scarifications and^ setons ordered for these maladies. A raving madman jumps from his bed, and falling on the floor, strikes his nose violently, a profuse hemorrhage from the nostrils follows, and he is cured. This is a mere accident; but must convince every one, who is not even bred to Physic, that an effusion of blood, from the nose, is salutary in this disease. Hence, ancient Physicians, when there was no effusion, naturally endeavoured to produce it artificially, by irritating the nostrils with sharp things, to relieve their patients. Cases are recorded of dropsical people being cured by an accidental bursting of the navel, or the skin broken by an external bruise, by which apertures, all the water escaped, the distended parts collapsed, and gradually recovered their former tone. These accidents taught Physicians to relieve their hydropic patients, by making an artificial opening, called tapping. After a suppuration of the lungs, with adhesion of the pleura, matter penetrated through the ribs, muscles, and skin, spontaneously, which taught Physicians to imitate this action ; and endeavour to cure empyema, by paracentesis thoracis, or perforating the integuments, and intercostal muscles, with a sharp instrument. By chance, men found that the most formidable and obstinate diseases—as palsy, gout, melancholia, and mania, were sometimes completely removed by violent affections of the mind, and were judiciously induced to try similar, means in these cases. Chance discovered the Antiseptic virtues of Scordium; for those dead bodies, on the field of battle, which were near Scordium, were found to be longer in becoming putrid. ^ , We shall not, however, easily attain our object in Physic, if we follow every casual event as a general rule. Natural instinct was another source of medical practice, which may be called a spontaneous mental desire, or corporeal action; for, on observing the effects which followed, both salutary and pernicious, in repeated instances, men were taught what to follow, and what to avoid: thus it was discovered, that cold water was prejudicial in inflammatory fevers, but frequently of service in the febris ardens, or An unexpected event, which is an effect quite contrary to what was expected—as vomiting being produced by a purgative medicine, and increase of pain, instead of its alleviation, being occasioned by an opiate, &c. This may arise from idiosyncrasia, or individual peculiarity o^constitution, from error of the Physician, in mistaking the diagnosis of the disease, or improper selection of remedies: nor are such errors unfrequent at present, whilst men obstinately adhere to pre-conccived opinions, without following the dictates of experience and science. It is much to be wished, that Physicians, in general, would copy the example of Hippocrates and Sydenham, candidly contess their errors, and relate the unexpected effects of their remedies: this would apprise practitioners of certain dangers, and teach them to profit by the mistakes of others; but, instead of that, they often split on the same *ock, and transmit errors from age to age. The natuial instinct observable in brute animals, may also be enumerated as contributing tow'ards a knowledge of Medicine. .Melampus discovered the powers of hellebore from its effect on goats : thus also we learn the resolvent virtues of giass in visceral obstructions, and biliary calculi, with which animals are afflicted, after being fed, in the winter, on hay in stables; but when permitted, in spring, to graze in meadows, their viscera are found healthy and aound. Thus, also, was a medicine, useful in phthisis, lately discovered, and kept a secret by Daniel Langhans, a Swiss Physician, which, he says, was found out from sheep. Pliny makes a veiy pertinent remark on this subject: “ Fudendunique riersus, d omnia