HISTORY OF MEDICINE liv ■linistration of spurge only oxceptcd, this being far too violent for such an irritable distemper. Air, and moderate exercise, are of the utmost importance in these complaints, nor should they ever be omitted; for in many instances, a change of air alone, will cure this lingering disorder, when all other attempts prove ineffectual, / ■ The observations on the diarrhaea, dysentery, and the conclusions from the appearance of the faeces in epidemic, and other diseases, are all worthy of attention. The remedies for the diarrhaea, and dysentery, are tolerably judicious. Hippocrates bled in the dysentery, the moderns prescribe the same; he recommended meal boiled in milk as food, the same is frequently recommendeefat this present time. In the jaundice, drastic purging was objected to ; and physicians for such violent practices, were censured as ignorant; but the modern methods of treating the jaundice are quite superior to the ancient. By very slight and inconsiderable circumstances, diseases are frequently prolonged ; a physician, therefore cannot be too cautious, lest cither by an omission, or attempting, through an implicit confidence in the art, more than medicine can effect, he may considerably augment a disease. It is a safe practice to do no injury, when the limited powers of the art prevent us from effecting good ; and such a principle cannot be too strongly inculcated, nor too frequently remembered by students, in a science we could wish was less uncertain. If the liver became schirrus in the jaundice, it was thought dangerous ; but affections of the liver are more prevalent in warm climates, than the colder countries, and in the East Indies a very successful method has been adopted for the cure of this complaint. The abscess of this part, in this country, is very dangerous, and frequently proves fatal. The Hippocratic description of madness is tolerably accurate, the notion of the blood’s state, producing different sentiments in mankind, is nearly true. What a difl’ercnce may be perceived, between the man whose heart circulates a blood apparently pale, and one of a florid complexion ? One shall be crafty and designing; the other, open, sincere, and generous ; one shall be vindictive, timorous, and effeminate ; whilst the other shall be brave and of a masculine habit. A man of discernment, may, in general, distinguish between sincerity, and insincerity, and indeed without pursuing human vices, guard again.t the vicious. It was the character given to Hippocrates by Macrobius, that he could neither deceive, nor be deceived; and assuredly no character is more absolutely necessary in a physician. The opinion that the healing, or drying up an ulcer, w'ould produce a phrenzy, pleurisy, or convulsions, is a prejudice re5 vived by the moderns, (r) and universally adopted. This doctrine has been clearly demonstrated to be false, by the success of my new discovered method of curing old ulcers of the legs without rest. Hellebore was a remedy prescribed in mad- sicss ; and, as (he letters from the Abderites are inserted in the former part of this work, the two following may be not un- wortliy of attention. The. first is from Democritus, to Hippocrates, and is as follows. You came to ns Hippocrates, to give hellebore to a madman, at the instigation of a prejudiced people, who think study madness. J was at that time employed in writing concerning the fabric of the world, the poles, and the stars of the firmament, V^hen you understood the nature of these things, how excellently they were framed, and bow far from madness I was, yoa commended my employment, and censured them as foolish and insane. All those things that pass through the air by images, are seen in the world, and succeed one another, my mind making a scrutiny into these, hath clearly discovered their nature, and brought it to light; witness the books 1 have written. You ought not, therefore, Hippocrates, to converse with such men, whose minds are wavering, and inconstant. Foi, if, as my countrymen had desired, you had given me hellebore, considering me mad, you had, from a perfect sensible state, made me mad indeed ; the guilt whereof would have been attributed to your art. For hellebore given to sound persons, clouds their understandings; but to the insane it is productive of good. I believe that if you had not found me writing, but lying down, or walking, revolving things in my mind, sometimes laughing, and not attending to such friends as visited me, but entirely absorbed in study, and contemplation, you would have inferred fiom what you beheld, tliat I was mad. A physician, therefore, must not judge of the affections, or passions, by the sight only, but by (he actions themselves, and observe, whether they are in their beginning, in the middle, or decline, and to consider the dif- ference pf time, and age, before he undertakes to cure the body, for, by all these the disease will be discovered. To (r) By L< Dran, Sbarp> and