( *93 ) 14-. A strong pungent odour, brings on redness or inflam- mation of the eyes. WOHKMAKSHIP, OR DISEASES OF ARTIFICERS. TKe reasons, by which working at trades, or in manufactories, cause diseases are, 1. The substance which a workman may handle, or by w hich the air he breaths may be rendered unwholesome. 2. The poiture, motion of the body or hands, which a work- man may be obliged to use. Countrymen and gardeners exposed to the hottest rays of the sun during the summer, by its heat, acquire a dark- ness of the face and ephelidcs. By continued manual labour, the palms of the hands of sailors become callous, if a countryman should have a whitlow on the finger, and the incision not be made deep enough, mortification or caries of the phalanx frequently follows, the epidermis when thick and callous, lies on the neighbouring soft parts and bones, hence, compression of the nerves and vessels brings on gangrene and caries of the bones from the pus being confined. The Literati by the constant sight of white objects, as pa- per, become subject to myops and inflammations of the eye-lids. Phyticians and surgeons, by intercourse with the sick, get contagious diseases, unless very circumspect. R^ners become dim sighted by the fusion of metals and working iron, quenching of which, in the water, causes amaurosis. tVhite'Uad makers, are seized with obstinate colics, paralysis, a contraction of the fingers, hands, arms, and at last of the whole body, with fixed arthritis, or arthrodia. Coppersmiths, by constant use, have greenish hair and teeth, they also become deaf by continually striking with the hammer. Blacksmiths, are also deaf by the sound of the hammer, and subject to hernia by lifting heavy weights, have wa- tery eyes, and loss of sight by strong fires. Founders, from being in the melting house, often become dim sighted. Miners digging quicksilver, are troubled with loose teeth and a falling out of them. It was formerly observed that those who rubbed mercurial ointment on a part, where seized with trembling of the hand, therefore surgeons desire venereal patients to rub in for themselves, or the hand should be co- vered with a bladder, to prevent absorbtion. Gilders working with amalgama, become deaf and dumb through the rarefaction of mercury, by the heat used, and they aie likewise paralytic. Letterfounders feel a loss of sensation, and contraction of the hands, by the fumes of antimony and lead. Lapidaries are troubled with ophthalmia and cophosis, by the particles of stones getting into their eyes, mouth, and cars; a bladder hung up in their shop and closed, D frequently acquires a considerable quantity of this dust, whence it appears, that this powder is very penetrating, and shews the bladder porous. Plasterers have ulcerated lips by slacking the lime, and dry wrinkled hands, but seldom scabby. Putters are subject to a contraction of the hands by the cal- cination of lead, for the vitrification of their ware, and become chronically rheumatic in the hands and feet, by working the cold earth. Salt-makers become scorbutic and ophthalmic. Cooks, by the fire are troubled with inflammation and, at last, blindness. Confectioners destroy teeth. Nightmen are mostly blear eyed, and have a bad sight from the exhalations of the faeces, and can hardly work four hours a day for a pain in the eyes, they are afterwards obliged to sit in a dark place, and wash their eyes with warm water ; the foetor is so corro- sive, that silver and copper vessels become black, and can hardly be cleaned from it, from this it is evident why a foul chamber pot hurts the eyes. Wasldng-v:omen are watry eyed from the noxious odor of the lixivium, a'dematous from standing, subject to whitlocs in the fingers, from alternate heat and cold, also chaps occasioned by the soap. Tallow-chandlers are subject to eye diseases from the un- pleasant factor of the melted fat. Millers become deaf by the sound of the mill, and the vola- tile part of the flour. Bakers are hoarse by the volatile part of the flour, and have generally large hands, for exercise, increases the size of parts. Hair-dressers become dim sighted by the powder. Sifters become dim sighted by the dust of the flour, and get a cough as well as scabby eruption. Labourers become crooked by carrying heavy weights on their back, which by custom occasions pain of the back and thighs, by lifting weighty things they get ruptures and the blood of the s mall vessels being pressed by loads occasions sciatica. Porters by carrying burthens and bending forwards, become crooked, also subject to ruptures. Shoe-makers by stooping forwards and sitting with their knees bent, become curved and lame, by continual bending to work, their arms become thick, and muscles of the thorax strong. Tqy/ors walk awkwardly, by their feet being compressed in sitting, and their backs are bent; even girls sitting closely to sewing, as making gowns, &c. by the scapulse bones receding, become round shouldered, frequently have ruptures, hoarseness, &c. Grooms are subject to calculi, from the violent motion of the kidneys, they are libidinous from the motion of the genitals, and frequently have the piles from friction and concussion of the anus. Singers, and children that hollow miuh are subject to hernia, musicians playing the bassoon, have red eyas from d straining,