xci HISTORY OF MEDICINE. usual chronological inaccuracies of Pliny; and that perhaps, he supposed Asclepiades to have lived in the time of Pompey, because he had seen some of his medical writings or consultations, sent to Mithridates, whose total overthrow and extinction, had been the most renowned exploit or atchievemeiit of that magnanimous Roman. Even those very writings of Asclepiades, addressed to Mithridates, and those invitations to him from that king, by means of his ambassadors, at Rome, which he would not accept, as Pliny himself intimates, furnish another reason to conclude, that, that physician must have been sufficiently advanced in reputation, (y) and well established in Rome, and even famous over the whole world, many years before Pom- pey’^ time; since it is not likely that there should have been that intercourse through his ambassadors, unless before the alie- nation of Mithridates, from his friendship with Rome, and before he had declared himself their open and atrocious enemy, which, according to history, must have been about the year of Rome, 660. ‘ But leaving every learned reader to his own opinion on this subject, we will speak of the author himself and his particular doctrines. With regard to his philosophical notions we may see that they were different from those of Epicurus and Democritus; (t) though all these acknowledged atoms: for the atoms of Asclepiades were divisible ; whereas those of Democritus and Epi- cuius were supposed incapable of being divided. But Galen says, that Asclepiades adhering to the sentiments of Demo- critus and Epicurus, with legard to the principles of bodies, (a) had only changed the former names of things, calling atoms molecules, and a vacuum pores. And in another part, he says, (b) whether the bodies of animals are composed of molecules and pores as Asclepiades believed, or of small indissoluble particles, as Epicurus imagined, &cc. Asclepiades is said to have written a book on aliments, another on respiration on the pulse ; (c) and it has been supposed : that he wrote on the nature of the soul, and on various diseases; but only fragments of this author have reached our time. : Asclepiades gained his great reputation from the mildness of his practice : for he enveighed strongly against vomits, and all cruel practices ; such as thrusting a steel instrument down the throat to clear the passage in the angina, (d) Purging he I was likewise averse to, and remonstrated vehemently against it. Till the days of Asclepiades antiquity stood it well out. In i vain did Hcrophilus advance his refined speculations ; neither he, nor any of the like character were followed universally, and considerable remains of ancient physic supported themselves with all the authority they had ever acquired. But the second , ^sculapius, having reduced all the learning of a physician to the knowledge, or investigation of the causes of diseases; physic, which was at first an art founded on experience, became conjectural and entirely changed its appearance, • Pliny says, his mild gentle methods were the cause of his obtaining a strong party in his favour. I'he chief methods were, abstinence from food, from wine on certain occasions, frictions, walking, and gestation. As people perceived they could easily submit themselves to these, they judged the physic of Asclepiades so much the better for being easily practised. Pliny likewise insinuates that he had some artful stratagems peculiar to himself; such as promising the people wine, and actually giving it on many occasions; and likewise allowing them to drink cold water to refresh themselves. But whatever was the fate of his writings and doctrines, it is plain that great praise has been given him by the greatest part of those who'have mentioned him. No one denies him the honour of being one of the few principal institutors of the medical part. And on that supposition, and in that light, he is spoken of even by those who shew themselves the least favourable, such as Aurelianus and Galen. But some more distinctly and expressly, as Apuleius, (e) for example, have called him the prince, or head of all other physicians, Hippocrates excepted; and by Antiochus, the philosopher, be was said to be second to no one in physic, (f) and deep skilled in philosophy. By Celsushe was held to be agreat author, (g) and proper to be followed in many things, (h) By Scribonius, he was reckoned an excellent author ; (i) hy Marcellus, a most able physician, and memorable for his doc- trines; (k) by Strabo extremely learned, by Cassiodorus ; (1) eloquent by Cicero; (m) sagacious aud wonderfully persuasive by Pliny; (n) and an exact, polite, and powerful reasoner. by Galen, (o) From (y) Pliny, lib. VII. cap. S7. (s) Celius Aurelian Acutor. lib. I. c. 14. (b) De Hippocrat. and Platon, decret. lib. V. cap. 3. (c) Galen de Element, lib. II. vol. I. p. 56. v.36,35. (O Florid, p. 162. (f) Sext. Empiric, lib. VII. p. 112. (g) Lib. IV. cap. 4. Defaucium exul. ceratione. (ft) Epist. 3. l(fe; Lib. XII. p. 566. (i) Vol. II. p. 509, I (n) Lib. XXVI. cap. 3. Sect. VII. (o) Vol. I. p. 335.11. p. 458. v. p. 345. &e. (a) De Thetiac. ad Pison. cap. 11. (d) Pliny, lib. XXVI. cap. 3. (i) Cap. IV. (m) De orat. I. 62. •> 1