HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixvi that passes tlirough the temples, these parts ought not to be cut, because by that means the patient is seized with convulsions. He pronounces the fever attending wounds of the head, (n) to be a sign, that the cranium is corrupted, and that the cure of the patient has been neglected. He has observed, that the bones of children, are more thin and soft, (o) because they abound more in blood, &c. Hence by the same, or a slighter blow, the bone of a child will become more, and sooner purulent, than the bone of an adult. An account is given of a girl of twelve-years of age, (p) whose cranium was contused, and fractured; but the trepan being injudiciouly applied, she died on the fourteenth day. Her left hand was seized with con- vulsions, though the wound was inflicted on the right side of her head. Those bones which are violently altered from their natural state, (q) and depressed inwardly by a fracture, or entirely cut off, are less dangerous, if the membrane, dura mater, remains entire. (r) Bones affected on the inside, with more and wider fissures, are less dangerous, and are more easily e.xtracied, for none of these require section, nor must we try to remove them by any violent or dangerous means, before they make out their way by loosening spontaneously. In the same book, after advising no rash, or dangerous attempts to be used, for extracting the fractured bones, but leaving them to be thrown olT by nature, this is done by the growing of the flesh under them, which grows out of the djploe, and the sound part of the bone, if only its external part be corrupted. In De Locis in Homine, it is said, if the bone of the cranium, be both fractured, and contused, it is not so dangerous, as if it be cracked, and the fissures proceed inwardly; for this case is very dangerous. The saw is to be used in order to prevent the sanies from flowing through the fissure of the bone, upon the dura mater, or membrane, and so putrifying the same. A fracture of the a-anium, or a large piece of it cut away, (s) or the bone divided by many and large cracks, arc none of the most dangerous cases. Profound sleep, vertigo, and dimness of .sight, are dangerous symptoms. CU If the bone be fractured, split, or contused, &c. and if scraping and cutting have been neglected, upon a supposition, that it did not re- quire them as being sound, a fever will generally seize the patient before the ^fourteenth day, in the winter ; but in the sum- mer, after the seventh day ; CuJ ^ little ichor will be discharged from it, and the inflamed part will become mortified. When this happens, the ulcer becomes discoloured, glutinous, like salted fish, of a brownish colour, and sublived; and, when the bone begins to be corrupted, becomes black, smooth, and towards the margin pale, and whitish ; but, when it becomes puru- lent, pustules appear on the tongue, and tlie patient growing delirious dies. Those who have their brains wounded, arc, for the most part, seized with a fever, vomiting of bile, and an apoplexy; and their conditions, in consequence of these symptoms, are very desperate. When the brain is corrupted, some die in three, others in seven days, if they pass these days, they recover, ('yj They who have a sphacelus of the brain, die within three days; but if they outlive the time, they shall recover their health, (zj We should be very cautious in our prognostics on wounds, or blows on the head ; for from very slight appearances at first, fatal effects follow. In the second book of his Epidemics, he gives the following relation. A beautiful young damsel, of twenty-eight years of age, the daughter of Nereus, was, in spurt, struck on the sinciput, with the flat hand of a young woman, her companion. Upon which she was seized with a vertigo, accompanied with a dimness of sight, and her respiration ceased. When she was brought home, she was seized with a fever, a pain in the head, and her face became red. On the seventh day, above an ounce of foetid pus was discharged from her right car, upon which she seemed tube better, andhaddier symptoms relieved, but died on the ninth day. When the bone has been pared with a rasp, if it be necessary to cut the skull open, do not suffer three days fo pass before it is performed, (aj Those who suffer a violent concussion of the brain, must needs presently become dumb, (bj ON (n) De cap. vulner. Sect. XXXI. (o) De capit. vulner. Sect. XXIX. {q) Dc cap. vul. (r) Various prognostics. ft) De cap. vul. Dangerous symptoms. (it) De capit. vulner. fi) Aph. 50..Scct. VI. 6 Coac. III. 271,383,384. 11 Priedict. XXII. 12,16. XXIII. 5. ad. 11, (2) Aph. 2. Sect. 7. (a) De capit. vuliieribus. fl>) CoacuisioD of the brain. Coac. 111.370.1 Ulorb. UI. 34. Apb. 58. Sect. VII. (p) Lib. V. Epid. (s) De capit. vulneribus. (y) Coac. prenotion.