( >57 ) HO^T ©EMONSTRATEO. By maceration and inflation, the cellular structure is de- monstrable; but not in the dissolution of a recent bruin, of the cornea, and lens, in water; the desiruc- ticn of the epidermis, hairs, and nails; the structure of some part of bones, and cartilages, &c. render it probable that they do not fully consist of cellular ■ texture alone. CELLS OF TELA CELLULOSA. They all mutually open themselves one into another, and communicate. If air pervade the cells, the emphysema happens; sometimes to the whole body, as in some poisons, or from punc- tures, &c. They can be artificially filled, by inflating the cells with air, in the manner butchers blow up their veal. Water passes from cells, in one part, to others vety remote ; as in anasarca, and cedema, which disappear in the legs at night, in bed; and the fluid, that swelled in the day, is disperserl, pro tempore. Punctures in the legs, below the knee, have emptied the bloated face, and with it the whole body, of gallons of water, which 1 have freeiuently demonstrated.* The gradual dispersion of extravasated blood, after ecchy- mosis, contusions, &c. where we perceived dark livid effusions in the cellular structure, not only extend, change to a more natural colour, but likewise totally disappear, illustrating the powers of cellular com- munication, absorbtion, &c. Suppurations of matter in the chest, have been discharged in the inferior extremities. Ulcers of the kidneys have communicated, and the matter has been evacuated from the thigh. From a suppurated parotid, pus has descended te the cubit, corroded the ligament, and an anchylosis has followed. And, lastly, from almost every part, the collections of pus have changed their seat, and have been conveyed from behind the pleura, from the pancreas, mesentery, hepar, or liver, axilla, neck, inguen, &c. as hath been evidet>tly proved by J. Nicolaus IVeiss, and by numerous dissections, post mortem, made by myself, and others. By these evident facts, the seat of various diseases being transferred from one part to another, is satisfactorily accounted for, by means of the facile communication of the cellular struc- ture. THE ©SE OP TELA CElLULOSA. L To act as a vinculum, and give- firmness to the whole body. ‘ V II. To receive fluids in its cells, whether adipose, or vapo- rous ; to moisten the whole body, and facilitate action. III. To form all membranes; coats of vessels; the cellular structure of all parts ; to combine the most minute muscular fibres; and preserve the muscular powers. IV. To define the figure of the human body, and determine form. V. To assist the cure of many diseases, by conv'eying the irritating causes from the more noble and important parts, to otliers ignoble or less dangerous. ' MEMBRANES Are all composed of tela cellulosa, as proved by inflation. Even the arachnoid membrane has, by the same mode, been shewn to consist of ccllulous bubbles. Certainly, says the industrious learned Haller, all membranes, without exception; vessels, which are membranous tubes; the pharencliymatous structure of the viscera, ligaments, and even tendons, cartilages, bones, &c. either arc, or have been, in a great part, tela cellulosa; which facts are now, in general, re- ceived, contrary to the opinion of several gicat men, that every part of the human body was entirely vas- cular. ADEPS. I. The adeps, or fat, is collected in the more lax cellular texture, being deposited by the extremities, of arteries in the cells. II. It exsudes longitudinally througlr them. III. The same is resorbed, by the veins opening in the cells. of the adipose cellular structure, as appears from the- sudden effects w'hich the exercise of the muscles has in consuming the oil of very fat animals; also, from the consumption of human fat in fevers; from the cure of anasarcous dropsy, where the water transfused in the cellular su”bstance, is evacuated by the intestinal canal; and, lastly, from the ’transuding of water and oil from various orifices, when injected by the syringe.! Numerous experiments to be found in the erudite experimen- tal w'ork of the celebrated Ab. Kaaw Boerhaave, proving, the absorption, and inhalation of the minute san- guifrous veins, which seem to attract those saline, or other. * See Treatise on Dropsy, &c. ■t The facts exhibited by the great Halier, Tn his large Latin work, and ^even in his first lines of Physiology, ought to be perused by •very studious Physician, with the greatest attention: there is an ine.xhaustible field for reflection, and unprejudiced experiment. I have endeavoured to abridge the whole in the Latin Edition of Schola Me.dicirue, with what success, must be submitted to the learned, and candid; •r, perhaps, to a discerning and liberal posterity, when the Author is no more ! S s