< m ) viewing the deletereous effects on different animals, in suspending life, &c. ' The hj/grogen and azotic gasses, prove fatal; but are said to produce no change in the blood, Tbc carbonated hydrogen, carbonic oxide, and, perhaps, nitrous gas, may be breathed—but kill—and produce changes in tlie blood. The oxide of azot, and oxygen air, or gass, may be breathed sometime, without destruction; but death ensues at last. The atmospheric air, which is a compound, perhaps, not yet perfectly, ascertained ; and liable, from various cir- cumstances, to a change of component particles, is the only air human beings can long continue to respire. Numerous experiments have been made on those gasses, and some hasty conclusions drawn ; but still they require succeeding investigation. It has be II well known, that pabulum vituc of the ancients, or vit il air of the moderns, changed the colour of the blood in the lungs ; and we know little more now, . In resj iration, a certain portion of vital aii, or oxygen, dis- appears, and is absorbed by the inhalent minutest veins, i peiiing on the surface of the bronchial vessels and vc.sicl s, and is conveyed to the larger branches of the pulmonary veins, producing a change in the blood, before it enters the left auricle, in its progress to the aorta. CARBONIC ACID <JaS IS EMITTED, A great part of which, according to my ojiinion, is nothing but the exhaling vapour from tl>e oscula of the mi- nutest arteries opening on the surface of the bronchia, which unites with the air expired. Several ingenious investigators, particularly Lavoisier, who says, that about 16.713 oz. troy weight, of carbonic acid is emitted in twenty-four hours: but Mr, Davy says, that thirty-seven ounces is the quantity ex- cluded. The changes that are produced in the blood, according to Priestly, Cigna, llassedfratz, Beddoes, Watt, and particnlaily Mr. Davy, are 1. The blood absorbs vital air, 2. It acquires a florid red colour, and the chyle disappears. 3. It emits carbonic acid gas, and perhaps carbon. 4. It emits water, and perhaps hydrogen. Lavoisier, and others, from not being accurate Physiologists, though great Chemists, do not seem to know, that it has been proved, that exhaient arteries in the bron- chia send forih fluid. For the different hypotheses, and various experiments, see those of Dr. Black, Priestly, La Place, Green, Gir- tanner, Ilassenfratz, Lavoisier, Crawford, La Grange, ami others, who may be consulted, but do not agree on this abstruse subject; and have Icit it little better than they found it, in many paiticulars. Do not light, caloric, and electric fluid, enter the lungs in in- spiration with the aimosphenc air ? Do they not act as a stimulus, and keep the lungs in action ? Do they preserve the free circulation of the blood ? THE ACTION OF THE KIDNEYS. The Chemical Experimenters assert, that a chemical change is produced in the kidneys : for there are two sub- stances in the urine, not existing in the blood—urea and uric acid, supposed to be formed in the kidneys. Some light might be thrown on this subject: if the blood, proceeding from the einulgeiit artery, and after the secretion in the kidneys ; what passes into the eimilgcnt veins, were well comprehended. All ana- lyses ; iiowever, on dead substances, may be different to what they were in the living human body: and, hitherto, they have not much improved practical science, either in accounting for causes and cH'ccts, or in (he cure of diseases, but have done much mis- chief by false conclusions, and misapplication.* PERSPIRATION. Without perspiration, the human body would be over loaded with noxious particles. Sanctorius continued experiments on this subject above thirty years, and illustrated it. Kaaxo Boerkaave proved, that perspiration was universal, both internal and external passing in the form of vapours ; and that inhalation was eijually performed through the whole system. Thegieatest perspiration has been calculated at .62.89 ounces in twenty-four hours: but there must be a great dif- ference in different constitutions, seasons, ages, sexes, and climates. It is increased by drink ; is most, immediately after full meals, and rises highest during digestion, according to Fourcroy. Profuse perspiration diminishes urine; an-d this latter evacu- ation, the former. 'Lillet, Cruickshank, Juriue, In- genhousz. Mills, and Fordyce, have all endeavoured to explain this subject. It appears that carbonic acid gas is emitted—water, marine salt, which may be tasted in the sweatj and some have supposed, that oxygen gas is absorbed. Besides the panicles mentioned, there is an oily matter, an acid, and phosphat of lime. It has been doubted, whether the skin absorbs ; but turpen- tine liniments, garlic, and other odoriferous sub- stances, applied to the skin, places the fact beyond doubt, for they cause the breath and urine to smell, lic. The lungs, likewise, in moist a>r, carry humidity to the blood, and increase the weight of human beings.f OF ASSIMMILATION. It has been observed, that blood, by means of the pulsating arteries, supplies the waste of the whole human system. 'Fhe • What have the projects of the Jixed air, or carhonie acid gas, done in putrid fevers, or cancerous ulcers ? Wliat has the vifat air, or ort/gen ■gas, ditie in ulcerated lungs, plilhiMS, pulmoiiiaris, or pulmary cunsumpliun—the cow-haiise practice, or other conceits ot unexperienced vjsionists —or the 7iitrid acid in coiilinued veucreal lulvciiun ’ Have not all tliuse, who have been sufficiently credulous to espouse these Chimeras, reason to lament tlie loss ot time, and suinetimcs of life, while they administered these untried supposed spccihcs, Uuforluuatc are the patients who became victims to such, and other irrational nuveliies. t The Abbe Fontana has observed this.