( 135 ) stays have compressed the ribs, and contracted the pelvis, by which respiration has been impeded, and ' difficult labours in child-birth, introduced; at present, the easy Greek dress is adopted ; and, hereafter, the narrow chest, and contracted ill ronned pelvis, will be less frequent.* THE INTERNAL PART OF THE THORAX IS DIVIDED INTO FIVE CAVITIES; NAMELY, BY THE MEDI- ASTINUM : It is distinguished into the right cavity of the thorax, and left. cavity of the pericardium, anterior mediastinum, posterior mediastinum. THE PARTS FORMING THE THORAX ARE Divided into external and internal. / THE EXTERNAL PARTS ARS 1. The common integuments. 2. breasts, and papilla. , 3. muscles, which are Two pectorales majores. Two pectorales minores. Twenty-two intercostales externi. Twenty-two intercostales interni. I 4. The bones, which are % I Twenty-four ribs. j Twelve dorsal vertebrae. i One sternum, composed of three bones. 5. The pleura, or internal covering. THE INTERNAL PARTS, OR CONTENTS OF THE THORAX, ARE : 1. The lungs, in both sides of the thorax. 2. The heart, in the cavity of the pericardium, with its auricles, sinuses, and beginning of the large vessels. 3. In the anterior space of the mediastinum, there arc 1. The oesophagus. I 2. thoracic duct. 3, arch cf the aorta. ‘ 4. branches of the vena cava. ( 5. vena aygos. j 6. eight pair of nerves. , . 7. great intercostal nerves. THE INFERIOR SURFACE OF THE THORAX Is formed by the diaphragm, which liivides the cavity of the chest from the cavity of the abdomen. THE BREASTS Arc two seft semiglobular bodies, adhering to each lateral region of the thorax, more conspicuous in females. In the middle of each the papilla projects, round which there is a circle of a darker colour, called discus papillae. SUBSTANCES FORMING THE BREAST, ARE 1. The common integuments. 2. adipose membrane, from which its softness, and size. 9. The lacteal glands, at its centre, which are collected into a mass. 4. The lacteal vessels, which are called galactiphora, or lactcferoiis, arising from the glands, and terminating to the papilla, or nipple, in which there are ten ex- orifices. USE. To give infants nutriment, and form a part of female beauty. THE PLEURA Is a membrane, covering the internal surface of the thorax, forming the cavities, which are separated by the me- diastinum. DIVISION. Into an internal smooth surface, which is always moistened by exhalent arteries; into an external surface, which is cellular. The plura forms a large process, called the mediastinum, which divides the thorax into two cavities, arising from the bodies of the dor»al vertebra*, and is carried forwards through the middle of the thorax, adhering to the internal surface of the sternum, a little to the left side. In this duplicatuFe of the mediastinum, at the fore-part under the sternum, and at the hack part near the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, there is a triangular space, one of which is called the anterior; the other, posterior space of the mediastinum. The parts occupying these spaces have been noticed. CONNECTION With the intercostal muscles, the sternum, and bodies of the dorsal vertebra;, at the inferior part, with the pericar- dium, and diaphragm. u si:. * See Specimens of this easy Dress in the Plate, descriptive of the Apothesis of Hbmer, sculptured before the Time of the Expeditions of Alexander the Great, at Ptiene, in iouia, of wl.ich I have written a concise Description, in a Work on the Subject, from the circumstance of this extraordinary ancient Sculpture being in London, 1802, above 2100 Years old, and above 300 Years before Chiust.—1 hese facts are proved in the Investigation of the Sublime Antique Marble, representing the Apothesis, or Deification of The immortal, the divine Homer. Ibis Marble, has been lately conveyed from Rome, in which Place it graced the Palace of Colonna: and is considered one of tlie g.eatest Auu ,u3 Curiosities extant.