( 30 ) PLATE XXVIIL Of the Medulla Spinalis, or Medullary Spine, Tignre I. Tlic cerehrUum of an infant cut perpendicularly into two parts, fourth ventricle and medvUa spinalisy beheld on its posterior side, together with its nerves, a. Pineal gland. bb. Corpora guadrigemina. ^ €c. The fourth pair of nerves of the cerebrum. dddd. The cerebellum cut through perpendicularly to shew the fourth ventricle, eeeeep. The two appearances of a perpendicular section of the cerebellum, in which the medullary substance on cither side appears dispereed into rami, which is called arbor x itee. From this arbor the medullary substance, as it were collected from branches into a trunk, ascends, as is evident, to the corpora quadrigemina, and is called vahula magna cerebri, seu pedimculus cerebri superior. But a part of the medulla cerebclti, particularly extends to the pons Varotii and inferior pedunculi, or posterior corpora pyramidalia of the medulla oblongata, which, nevertheless, cannot be shewn in this view. ff. Fourth ventricle, which is nothing else than a kind of furrow imprinted on the posterior face of the poste- rior corpora pyramidalia of the medulla oblongata. These two bodies are separate from one another in the fourth ventricle by a perpendicular sulcus, to whose sides they descend perpendiculares eminentice duar, from which others laterally pi-oeeed outwardly, and at length bending to the sides of the corpora py- ramidalia, run anteriorly to the origin of the portion nerve, called’ mollis aaisiicus. Above these last eminences, w'hite medullar}’, as it ■were, fibres usually run, from which, with propriety, some anatomists deduce the origin of the soft portion of the auditory nerves, at least pro parte. But these lines arc not always present, from which it is doubted whether they arc at all essential to tihe soft nerve. hh. Eighth pair of nerves of the cerebrum, with the ac- cessary nerves, and t«je recurrent from the inedtdla. spinalis. i. Ligamenhtm of the pia miUcr. k- Appc/idix. of the medulla spinalis intercepted with the cauda equina. The posterior appearance of the medulla spinalis •with thirty pair of spinal nerves are evident of- them- ^elves. And it is also evident, that every spinal nerve arises from one double anterior root, and another posterior, of which every one is composed of many nervous fu- niculi, and. that those roots continually increase in. length from the first pair of cervicak, until they aft the longest of the last sacral. Also, ganglia, of single spinal nerves, are pcrcejv tible, into which neither anterior nor posterior' root run, but the posterior only passes the ganglion, but the anterior is found annexed to it by cellular struc- ture only. The sizes of the spinal ganglion are evident also ; the least are in the first pair of cervicles, thence they gradually increase to the last cervical and first dorsal, again through the back they diminish in size, and in the lumbar they increase to the first sacral, until the last sacral becomes equally small as the first cervical. The roots of the sacral nerves are placed without the natural situation to shew them better. Figure II. represents one of the sacral nerves with its ganglion, placed, that it may be clearly seen. a. Posterior radix of one of the sacral nerves. b. Ganglion, through which the first radix only of the nerve passes. c. evidently separated from the ganglion that It may be seen alone, only adhering by its cel- lulosity. , Figure III. isthc fourth ventricle, with theprinci- pium of the medulla spinalis. ab,ab„. Posterior .appearance of the posterior corpora pyrami- dalia, when the fourth ventricle is taken out, se. Perpendicular sulcus, which separates tlie two forme.c bodies in the fourth ventricle. d d. Perpendicular eminences near the sulcus. ee.. transverse,, more or kss observable, they extend to the origin of the portion.of the soft acustic nerve. ff. Medullary vchite sirke, which also extend to the soft portion, but not always, and are sometimes wanting., gg. More the Ulus. Halter indicates the posterior corpora olivaria, but nothing like them is to be found. h.lu Eightlrpair of cerebciil nerves. a. Recurrent spinal and accessory neravs to the-eighth repair. kk. Anterior roots of the first pair of cervicals. 11. Posterior roots of which communicate with the left current spinal., m m. Posterior radices, or roots of tlic second pair. nn. Posterior radix of the third p.air of cervicals which do not consist of ramous, or branched, but of cylin- drical nervous cords. 0 0. Vertebral arteries perforating the dura mater, whiclu invests the medulla spinalis..