( 19^ ) 9. Enteritis, or inflammation of the intestines, is a symptom of intestinal wounds and contusions, incarcerated enteroccle and of spiculatcd substances swallowed. 10. Epiploitis, or inflammation of the omentum, is a symp- tom of a wound, or injury done to the omentum, of incarcerated epiplocele, from protrusion through a wound, compression, or ligatures on it. 11. Hepatitis, or inflammation of the liver, is a symptom of the liver being bruised, ruptured, or wounded. Splenitis, or inflammation of the spleen, is a symptom of the spleen being bruised, or wounded, it sometimes follows wounds of the brain. 13. Nephritis, or inflammation of the kidney, is a s3'mptom of its being bruised or wounded, gravel, stoue, 6cc. 14. Cj'stitis, or inflammation of the urinary bladder, is a symptom of its being hurt, or wounded, frequently of iscluiry, from the operation for the stone and incar- cerated cystocele. 15. Metritis, or inflammation of the uterus, is a symptom following a bruise, w'ound, or rupture of the uterus in deliver}', or from the cx'sarian section. jG. Myositis, or inflammation of the muscles, is a symptom of contusions, wounds, fractures, and rheumatisms. SYMPTOMS OF THE ACTION OF THE HEART. f. Lypothymia, or fainting, an apparent cessation of the vital actions, is a symptom of htemorrhage external, or internal, of fear before bleeding, or a surgical operation, of mortification, after the healing of an old ulcer, or of injury done to the heart. 2. Asphyxia, or apparent death, is a symptom in persons hanged for some time, frozen, nearly drowned, or children after a difficult birth. 3. Palpitation of the heart, is a symptom of injury done to the heart, which is then subject to aneurism, some- times the heart palpitates through fear, when about to undergo a surgical operation, or from exercise. ' SYMPTOMS OF RESPIRATION. Oilhopnma, or suffocating respirating, is a symptom of hy- drothorax, empyema, of any thing sticking in the asophagus, or escaped into the trachea,, of sw'.elling in tlie neck, a penetrating wound of the thorax, with an effusion of blood, or escape of air, of injury done to the lungs, or phrenic nerve of the diaphragm, fompression of the ensifonn cartilage, ascites, or deformity, of overloaded mucus in trachea. Empyema, or effusion of pus into the cavity of the thorax, is a symptom of an abcoss of the thorax, of a contu- sion, or injury done to the lungs. &YMPTO.MS OF THE ANIMAL ACTIONS. These are injuries of the external and internal senses, of sleep and voluntary muscular motion. SYMP’TOMS OF THE EXTERNAL SENSES* Amaurosis, is a symptom of an injury done to the superci- liary nerve, or of the brain, or eye being contused or wounded, also diseases of the frontal sinuses. Araphyopia,‘is a symptom of mostly all the eye diseases. Photophobia, or intolerance of light, is a symptom of oph- thalmia, particularly \vhea internal. Cophosis, or deafness, is a symptom of contusion of the ean and most of their diseases. Agheustia, or loss of taste, is a symptom of the tongue being paralatic. Anosmia, or loss of smell, is a symptom of ozenae and polypus. Anmstesia, or loss of feeling, called insensibility, is a symp- tom of the sensorial nerves being divided, tied, com- pressed, or- destroyed by gangrene. Stupor, or a diminished sense of feeling, is a symptom wbicfi precedes gangrene, or necrosis, arising, also, from a nerve being tied, or brain compressed. Formication, or a sensation like stinging of ants, is a symp« tom of the same diseases as stupor. UNPLEASANT AND PAINFUL SENSATIONS. Ccphalagia, or pain in the head, is a sym])tom of contusion^ excrescences, or caries of the cranium, rheumatism. Hcmicrania, or pain in one side of the head, is a symptom of ophthalmia, tooth-ach, and diseases seated in the pituitary, sinuses of the frontal bone. Pleurodine, or pain in the thorax, but not, inflammatory, is « symptom of external emphysema, ofeontusion of the thora.x, and violent straining. Cardialgia, or pain of the .stomach, is a symptom of gastro- cele, compression of the ensifonn cartilage and con- tusion of the stomach, of acid wind, &c. Colica, or pain of the intestines, is a symptom of incarcerat- ed hernia, and bruise of the abdomen, wind, &c. riepatalgia, or pain in the region of the liver,, is a symptom of swelling of the gall bladder, or abccss of the liver, inflammation, schinus. Nephralgia, or paiii in the kidneys, is a symptom of renal calculi, which sometimes make their way out by an abccss in the lumbar region, of gravel, &c. Ilystcralgia, or pain of the uterus, is a symptom of calculus,, polypus,cancer in. the uterus, or vagina* Mastodynia, or pain of the breast, is a symptom of cancer, inflammation, or abundance of milk in the breasts. Arthritis, or pain of the joints, is a .symptom of tumours, wounds, and ulcers of the joints, gout, &c. Ostocopus, or pain in the bone itself, is a symptom of spinte ventosae, cancer,, node, or sarcosUisis. Myositis, or rheumatism,a pain of the muscles, is a symptom preceding abacess, necrosis. Anxiety, is a symptom of the bite of an empoisoned viper* ' Lassitude, or an unpleasant sensation of debility, is a symp- tom of wounds received, the scurvy, or contagious diseases as the venereal disease, debility, &c.. Itcliing, is a sensation e.vciting to scratch, and a symptom of wounds,