INTRODUCTION, &c. XIV snm, corpora striata, thalami nervorum opticorum, pineal gland, &c. &c. p. 28. Plate XXVll. The arteries of the brain, &c. of the full size, p. 29- Plate XXVUI. Of the medullary spine, pineal gland, &c. a complete treatise of the brain and all its parts, with a comparative view of the weight of the brains of most animals, with the weight of their bodies, including man, &c. to ascertain the different quantity of brain each animal possesses compared with man; in which it is proved that the human brain is not the largest, as vulgarly received, p. 30. Of the cerebellum, medulla oblongata, spinalis, &c. Plate XXIX. and XXX. exhibit the ganglions of nerves and funiculi, p. 81, &c. Plate XXXI. shews the component parts of nerves mag- nified by a microscope in thirteen figures. This investigation exposes many erroneous doctrines of the nerves, p. 33. .The vessels of the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medullary spine. Plate XXXII. as large as life, shewing the intercostal cervical nerve, or sympatheticum magnum, ganglions, &c. proceeding to the heart, diaphragm, &c. This elaborate demonstration, in concert with otheis, shews evidently, how one viscus, or part being affected by irritation, or compres- sion, may affect others, even remote from the scat of disease. Plate XXXIII. A reference plate to the foregoing, as large as life, p. 35. Plate XXXIV. Shews the nerves of the right side going to the heart, with two more figures of ganglions, &c, nerves, &c, HERE ENDS the FIRST VOLUxME in the LATIN EDITION. Plate XXXV. large as life, or further explication of Plate XXXIII. See. of arteries, veins, nerves, ganglions, muscles, &c. nervous ramifications, &c, p. 54. Plate XXXVT. A complete view of the nerves of the tliorax and abdomen, &c. large, p. 6l. Plate XXXVT. (2) A reference plate to the former, large as life. Plate XXXVII. shews the cccliac ganglion, mesenteric plexus, and right hypogastric nerves, with veins, arteries, vertebrae, &c. p. 73. Plate XXXVII. (2) is a reference plate to the former, full as large as the adult. Plate XXXVIII. Nervum sympatheticum magnum and par octavum in the left side, p. 80. Plate XXXVIII. (2) The reference plate to the former, large as an adult. Plate XXXIX. exhibits the nerves of the liver and sto- mach from the conffux of the right and left cccliac ganglions, &c. &c. exhibiting how the stomach may affect, or be aft'ccted by diseases of other parts, p. 87. Plate XXXIX. (2) Large reference plate to the last. The mode of dissecting and preparing the nerves for anato- mical demonstration fully explained. These representations of all the nervous system are most beautifully drawm and engraved, and the references in number amount to some thousands. These minute demonstrations will gratify the most inquisitive and contemplative mind by a series of real facts of the supreme government and influence of the brain and nerves, as ministers of feeling and all human sensations, sympathies, antipathies, &c. &c. SPLANCHNOLOGIA .‘.Treats of the integuments, viscera dedicated to forming chyle, secreting urine, semen for genera- tion, the organs of breathing, of the circulation of the blood, and lastly, the organs of the senses. Plate XL. Shews the internal parts composing the thorax and abdomen, with references in one page arranged in three columns under the heads of name and situation—structure, connections, and uses; by which the contents of the thorax and abdomen are briefly and clearly explained, so as to leave an impression on the mind not fo be easily effaced, p. 90, Plate XLI. Shews the abdomen, the intestines, Sec. being removed. The liver, gall bladder, pancreas, spleen, kid- neys, ureters, bladder, large vessels, &c. are represented in situ naturali. Differences between the adult and the embryo in the Latin, but in this edition in a future part. Of