( 137 ) CAVITIES ADHERING TO THE BASE OF THE HEART ARE 1. The right auricle, which is a muscular sac; its cavity is continued into the right ventricle. 2. The left auricle is als'o a muscular cavity, which is conti- nued into the left ventricle. 3. The righf venous sinus, formed by the vena cava, open* into the right auricle. I 4. The left venous sinus, formed by the pulmonary veins, opens into the left auricle. The cavities of the heart itself are called ventricles, which are divided into right and left, by a muscular substance, I called the septum of the heart. . Each ventricle has two orifices at its base: one, called auri- cular, by which the blood enters; the other, arterial, by which it goes out. I These openings have valves, which, in the arterial orifices, ' are called semilunar; in the right, auricle mitral; and in the left, auricle : they are called tricuspidal. I SUBSTANCE Of the heart is muscular. I The pericardium is a peculiar meinbranous sac, containing the heart, with its auricles, and sinuses. The vessels of the heart are divided into common and proper. The common are the aorta, arising from the left ventricle. I The pulmonary artery, in a like manner, from the right ven- tricle. I The pulmonary veins, going into the left venous sinus. The vena cava, emptying its blood into the right venous sinus. i The proper vessels are the coronary arteries of the heart, i which are sent off from the aorta. The coronary veins, returning the blood from the substance of the heart into the right auricle. |Thc nerves of the heart are branches from the eighth pair, and from the great intercostal nerve. I USE. iThe heart is the principal agent in the circulation of the blood, without winch life cannot exist. ; THE ABDOMEN Is a cavity, situated between the thorax and pelvis. I DIVISION INTO THREE CAVITIES; |1. The cavity of the peritoneum, |2. pelvis. ^ jd. The lumbar cavity. The parts which form the abdomen are divided into e.xternal and internal. THE EXTERNAL ARE 1. The common integuments. 2. Five pair of abdominal muscles ; namely. Two e.xternal oblique. Two internal oblique. Two recti, or strait muscles. Two transverse. Two pyramidal muscles, but sometimes wanting. 3. The bones of the abdomen are Five lumbar vertebra?. Four bones of the pelvis, 4. The peritoneum. THE INTERNAL PARTS, OR CONTENTS OP THE AB- DOMEN, COVERED BY THE PERITONEUM, ARE 1. The omentum. 2. stomach. 3. large and small intestines. 4'fd;‘ ^ r gall-bladder. 5. mysentery. 6. spleen. 7. pancreas, 8. lacteal vessels, or absorbents, situated between a du- plicature of the mysentery. In the lumbar cavity, outside of the peritoneum, 1. The kidneys, 2. suprarenal glands, or the renal capsules, 3. ureters, 4. receptaculum chyli, 5. descending aorta, 6. vena cava. In the cavity of the pelvis, outside of the peritoneum, in men. The urinary bladder, intestine, called rectum, vesiculas seminales. In women, besides the bladder and rectum. The uterus. Four ligaments of the uterus. Two fallopian tubes. Two avaria. The vagina. THE PERITONEUM Is a membrane, covering the internal surface of the abdomen, and is compared to a large sac. DIVISION. Into internal and external surface. N n SUBSTANCE.