1% INTRODUCTION, &c. Apollo, jEsculapius, Hygeia, See. See. of the Greeks and Romans. Many of the inscriptions are in Greek, and some few in Latin. I could here expatiate much on these subjects, having, at a former time of life, studied the Coptic Language, assisted by the excellent grammar of that worthy man, now no more! Mr. Woide, of the Museum. These researches proved, that the deities of the Egyptians were the identical gods the Greeks and the Romans afterwards adored. The names, indeed, were different, but, in general, the meaning of the names corresponded in the Coptic, the Greek, and Roman. The same attributes, and, in some respects, similar modes of worship were adopted by Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans. I think, I have proved, by these investigations, that many of the Greek deities, w hich that extraordinary people boasted to be of Greek origin, were not so, but borrow'ed from the Egyptians, and, in some instances, from the Persians. These subjects, which are not much to the present purpose, and only agreeable to the antiquarian, I shall desist from speaking more on, for the present; but at some future period these investigations may be resumed, and some lights thrown on those curious opinions of the ancients concerning their deities, which the blind zeal for different religions and sectaries hath almost totally obscured. The Romans admitted the worship of whatever gods the people chose to adore, or according to the country they emigrated from: whether this hath been political, it is not easy to determine.* Plate * On going to view the ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii, near Naples and Mount Vesuvius, I observed, that in Pompeii,^ the old lava and rubbish arising from the famous eruption in the time of Pliny had been cleared away, so as to enable the cu- rious traveller to walk in the streets, enter and examine the houses in all their various parts ; on the stocco walls are many ele- gant paintings, as fresh as though they were painted but a few days ago. In one street is an entire chapel, which was de- dicated to Isis and Bacchus; the one an Egyptian, the other a Grtek; and, nearly opposite, is the house of a Roman surgeon,, where all the instruments mentioned by Celsus were found, and which arc now deposited in the palace of Portici, belonging to the King of Naples. In this palace are eleven or twelve rooms full of the antiquities of the cities of Herculaneum and Pompeii; a catalogue of which I took, and have in my possession. What is remarkable, among other things, is an inscription on the floor, or rather Mosaic or tessalated pavement in the rcfectorium of the above-mentioned chapel—Cornelia celsa. The famous Cornelius Celsus, whose work is the most sensible, perhaps, of any of the ancients, as well as the most elegant classic Latin extant, lived near the period of this eruption of Mount Vesuvius, which destroyed those cities, as likewise Apuleim Ce/ws lived nearer, or at the same time. It does not appear very improbable that this Corwe/fa Cc/sa was some relation of Celsus, and that one or the other lived in that very house, where complete sets of surgeons instruments were found, as likewise places formed for anatomical purposes under some of the apartments. In my small Collection of bronzes may be perceived the progress of theart of sculpture from the rude Egyptian figure, to the highest perfection among the Greeks and Romans. The antique bust of Cicero, in my possession, is a chef d’ceuvre oi art, as tu anatomical accuracy. What is remarkable, that on the side of the cheek in the antique Cicero at O.ford, the wart is on the right cheek, just on the inferior margin of the os malce^ or cheek bone ; that sculpture shews the great orator younger than mine. In the face of my antique, just in the same spot, wherein the Ciccr, or rather excrescence, appears prominent in the Oxford statue, is an indentation in mine, as though the excresence had been extirpated, and the part after the removal had formed an hollow. They both correspond aS to the situa- tion of the wart, only that in the Oxford it remains protuberating beyond the skin; in my bust of Cieero it seems to have been sunk or removed; or if my beautiful bust could have been taken from a mask soon afler the cruel death- of; that excellent orator, and moral writer, the Cicer might have sunk after the loss of blood from the jugulating wounds given, by the ruffian; whose life, the glory of Rome had saved. There is such a stricking resemblance between the face of Cicero, and-the Honourable Mr. Thomas Erskine, one of the most respectable ornaments of our British bar, that every one, at first view, ex- claims, behold Mr. Erskine in the expressive face of the great Cicero ! The bust, 1 have, could not have been finished before - ■ tha ■ r.:- - ■ ; , . • -