( ^ luird r«f]>irhtron aAcl profound sleep, or comatose state and is a symptom ol' injury done to the brain, ex- travasated blood, or compression of the cranium. Paralysis, or palsy, is a lax immobility of one member, and a symptom of a nerve being divided, compressed, tied, or of perturbation and compression of the brain. Hemiplt-gia, is a palsy of one side only, aud a symptom of compression of the brain. Paraplegia, is a palsy of the whole body below the head, or of the lower joints, and is a symptom of luxated or fractured vertebrai, or injury done to the 'spinal marrow. Debility of all the members of the body, is a symptom of internal hydrocephelus, bifid spine, bite of poisonous animals, the effect of any contagion, as venereal dis- ease, scurvy, gangrene. SYMPTOMS OF THE VOICE. Aphony, or defect in speech, is a symptom of the recurrent branch of the larynx being divided, compressed, or too much distended, as after hanging, also from wounds of the thorax, trachea, tongue when deep and producing tetanus. Psellismus, or inability to articulate certain syllables, is a symptom of the tongue being deformed, or deficiency of the uvula, velum palati, teeth, hare lip, fissure of the palate, contusion of the head. Cacophonia, is an unpleasant tone of voice, a nasal voice, is a symptom of a polypus of the nose, ozena, nar- rowness of the posterior, foramina of the nose, or de- fect in the uvula. An hissing voice, is a symptom of angina of the larynx, or polypus, an hoarse voice, is a symptom of angina from cold, coryza, and relaxed uvula. SYMPTOMS OF THE N ATU RA L A CTIONS. These are affections of appetite, thirst, mastication, deglu- tition, chylification, sanguification, nutrition, secre- tions, and excretions. SYMPTOMS OF THE APPETITE NATURALLY. Anorexia, or want of appetite, is a symptom of great pain, vulnerary fever, hajmoirhage, affection of the gall, bladder, or stomach. Nausea, loathing of food, is a symptom of the brain being disturbed. Adipsia, or want of Ihirst, is a symptom of paralytic angina. Polydipsia, or an extreme desire of drinking, is a symptom in wounded persons, it is also observed in inflammation and gangrene, fevers, &c. Satyriasis, or a violent desire of coition, with a firm erection of the penis, is a symptom of gonorrhea, hydrophobia of hanged persons, and from the application of canlharidcs. Anaphrodisia, or impotence without power of erection in the penis, is a symptom of a fall on the^ loins, or os sa- crum, and of the testicles being indurated, &c. Tenesmus alvi, or a frequent desire of going to stool, is a symptom of calculus, inflammation of the bladder, piles when painful, fistula ani, particularly after the operation. Tenesmus vesicas, or frequent desire of making water, is a symptom of dysuria. See dysuria. SYMPTOMS OF DIGESTION. Mastication being affected, is a symptom of the maxillary bofie being luxated, or broken, looseness of the teeth, or want of them paralysis, or tetarius of the mus- cles of the cheeks and maxillary bone, also wound* and ulcers in them, a cleft palate, hare lip. Dysphagia, or difficult deglutition, is a symptom of tetanus, hydrophobia, paralytic, affection of the oesophagus, of tumours in it, or outside, compressing it, of bo- dies slicking there in being swallowed, or rupture of it, the same symptom is induced by luxation of the os hyoides^ branchocele, polypus of the oesophagus, or of the nostrils hanging in the fauces, also of inflam- matory, suppurating, schirruses, venereal, scorbutic spasmodic, or catarrhal sore throat. Dyspepsia, or defect of digestion, is a symptom of the sto- mach not performing its office, also from being wounded, or the presence of ventricular, or intes» • tinal hernia, wounds of the gall bladder or hepatic duct. SYMPTOMS OF SANGUIFICATION. ^ Cachexia, or bad sanguification is a symptom of hajraorrhage, ulcers, of all acrimonies of the scrophula, scurvy, lues venereiE, necrosis and dyspepsia. The jaundice, or bilious cachexy, is a symptom of the bite of a viper, or mad animal, diseased liver, &c. Anasarca, is an aqueous swelling of the body, and*a symp- tom of some preceding haemorrhage, of ulcers sud- denly healed, or discharging too much, of the urine being long retained, or diminished. SYMPTOMS OF NUTRITION. Tabes, or wasting of the body, with a slow fever, without cough, and expectoration of pus, is a symptom of every large ulcer, of scrophula, cancer, hernia of the stomach, injury done to the thoracic duct, and of a considerable preceding haemorrhage. Pulmonary consumption, is a general emaciation of the body, with a slow fever, cough and evacuation of pus, it is a symptom of contusion, or suppuration of the lungs, of an ulcer suddenly healed, the matter of which is deposited in the lungs, or of an abcess lying a long time concealed. SYMPTOMS OF SECRETION. Ujuler this ht:ad may be considered to great excretion, or ro- tenlion of what should be excreted. »AN-