HISTORY OF MEDICINE. CVl Years before Christ. Year of the tVoWd. 0h/mpia4. Build- ing of Rome- 6s 4051 CCXI. 4 821 78 406T CCXIV. 2 831 80 4063 4 833 f. 89 9fi 4072 CCXVII. 842 4079 CCXVHl. 4 849 98 4081 CCXIX. 1 851 117 1 i 4001 CCXXIV. 2 871 138 4121 CCXXIX. 2 891 Charmis, of Marseilles, author of phychrolusia, Nero kills himself. Vespasian dies. Titus succeeds. Athcnaeus Attaliensis, author of the pheumatic sect. C. Plinius, the second dies. Dioscorides Anazarbensis. Arius. Apollonius. Domitian dies. Trajan begins to reign, Agathinus. Herodotus. Archigencs, Rufus Ephesius, Plutarch, Hadrian begins to reign, Soranus Ephesius, dissolves the methodical sect, Caclius Anrelianus Siccensis seems to have lived about this time; weharethrc* books of this author, DcTardis Passionibus, and three De Celeris IMorbis. Hermogencs was physician to Hadrian, who, labouring under a disease of water under the skin, and tired of life, was told by Hermogenes, that if a certain .. part of the body under the breast was smeared with poison, and a wound ' inflicted, he would die in less pain. • Hadrian dies. Antoninus Augustus Pius, succeeds. ; Sextus, a physician of the empirical sect, was eminent under T. Aurelius An- toninus Pius, three of w’hose books on the hypotheses, or the Pyrrhonics, • and ten against the mathematical sect, are extant. It has been suspected ^ that this person was the same as Sextus Chceroneusis, nephew of Plutarch, . who was preceptor to M. Antoninus, the philosopher, as mentioned by Ca- ^ pitolinus in his life. But he was a disciple of Heroditu* Philadelphus, a ! follower of the Pyrrhonian sect. Year of Christ. ISO 193 196 211 235 304- 364. That illustrious luminary Claudius Galenus, of Pergamus, flourished under the reigns of M. Aurelio Antoninas, the- philosopher, and hi» son Commodus, Didius Julianus, Clodius Albinus, and lastly Severus. Under Antoninus lived Julian, of Alexandria, who wrote forty-eight books, against the aporhisms of Hippocrates,. also a book De MetKodo, dedicated to Philo, likewise rrtf) 4.ux»x2v nai (ruj^dhuuv Sefenus Saminonicus, w'hose poem on medicine and remedies of diseases, is extant, lived in tlie times of the L.m- peror Severus, and his son Caracalla, by whom he was killed at supper. Philasrius Lycius,is said to have lived under the reign of M. Aurelius Probus, he was a physician, at Epirota, dis- ciple of Naumachius. . t . , Sextus Africanus, besides the chronology mentioned by Eusebius, left eleven books, entitled In them lie treats of medical, chemical, physical, and agricultural affairs. These books were dedicated to Alexander, son. of Manimea. . . Theodore Priscian, or as he is called in other books, Octavian Ilorafianus, is said to have lived under Ma.\jminiamt3 Herculius. In the time of the Emperors Constantins, and Julian, Zeno Cyprius existed. Philostorgius, a physician, lived in the reigns of Julian, \ alens, and V aleniinian. His sons,"Philagrius, and Posidonius, were likewise celebrated physicians. OribaMUS, of Pergamus, was a disciple of the above mentioned Zeno, who gave Galen’s anatomy, &c. Ma-^nus Antiochenus, and lonicus Sardianus, disciples of Zeno, were likewise eminent men in the reigns of Julian and \’alens. Mtxu%