( 13 ) PLATE XI. The second Layer of the Museks on the anterior Part of the Body. ON THE HEAD AND NECK. Name and origin. Insertion. Action. Corrugator supercilii; from the angular process of Into the fleshy part of the occi- Cctotracts the eye-brow, the os frontis, pito frontalis muscle. Temporalis; from the semicircular ridge of the pa- Into the coronoid process of thc'j lower iaw u ward rietalbone. lower jaw. K L.urlonT’k.. s m Masseter; from the processus zygomaticus. Into the angle of the lower jaw. Levator angulioris; from the jugal bone, near the Into the angle of the lips, nose. Buccinator; from both jaw-bones. j mastication, &c. To draw the lips upwards. Into the angle of the mouth and To assist in mastication and laugh- gums. ing, and draw the mouth. f. Orbicularis oris. g. Depressor lahii inferioris. h. Sterno-cleido mastoidcus; from the sternum and cla- Into the mastoid process, vide, i. Stenio hyoideus; from the flrst rib, sternum, and Into the base of the os hyoides. clavicle. h. Levator scapulce ; from the first four vertebree of the Into the superior angle of the sea- Elevates the scapula, neck. pula. Bends the head forward. Pulls the os hyoides downwards. Suhclavius; from the cartilage of the first rib. true ribs. Serralus magnvs; from the nine superior ribs. Rectus abdominis; from the os pubis. Pyramidalis; from the fore part of the os pubis. TRUNK. Into the inferior part of the sea- To pull the clavicle forwards and pula. downwards. Pcctoralis minor; from the third, fourth, and fifth Into the coracoid process of the To bring the scapula forwards, or scapula. to raise the ribs. Into the base of the scapula. To move the scapula forwards and downwards. Into the sternum and the ribs. They cover and compress the ab- ... L domen, help to expel the Obliquus ascendens internus ; from the spina of the os Into the linea alba and lower ribs, f fceces, &c. and assist in re.» ilium. J spiration, &c. SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Bicepsjlcxor cubiti. b. Its short head. c. Its long head. d. Extensor carpi radialis Iongior. Flexor siiblimis perforatus; from the inner condyle of Into the second bone of each To bend the four fingers, the os humeri. finger. The insertion of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Extensorcs pollicis ; from the outer or back part of Into the last bone of the thumb. To extend the thumb, the ulna. Tendo flexoris longi pollicis manus. Ahductoi\minimi digiti menus} from the os pisiforme Into the first bone of the little Abduces the little finger, and annular ligament. finger.' INFERIOR EXTREMITY. '' Iliacus internus ; from the vertebraae of the loins. Into the trochanter minor, and the spine of the os ilium. Pectinalis ; from the os pubis. Into the linea aspera of the os fe- To bring the thigh upwards, and moris. turn it outwards. Triceps longus ; from the os pubis and ilium. Into the linea aspera of the os fe- To bring the thigh inwards and moris. upwards. Gracilis, e. Rectis cruris, f. Its tendon, g. A portion of the gluteeus medius. Vastus internus y~\Yiovci the trochanter major and! Vastus externus, J linea aspera. > Into the patella above the knee. ^To extend the leg. Crurccus; from the fore part of the os femoris. J The insertion of the biceps flexor cruris into the fibula, m, Tendines gracilis and semitendinosi in the tibia. 0. Soheus. Peronceus longusfrom the upper part of the fibula. Into the os metarsi and cunei-. To move the foot outwards, and forme. to extend it a little. Extensor longus digitorum ; from the upper and outer Into the four first joints of the To extend the four small toes, part of the tibia, and from the head of the fibula. toes. Fkxor longus digitorum •, from the back part of the Into the first phalanx of the toes. To bend the last joint of the toes, tibia. Tendons of the dihialis posticus^ Flexor brevis digitorum pedis ; from the inside of the Into the second phalanx of the To bend the second joint of the os ciilds. smaller toes. toes. E To bend the thigh with others. }•