lix HISTORY OF MEDICINE. I In the book Dc Morbis Mulierum, five cantharidcs are ordered to be put into the pudenda of women, mixed with frank- i incense, myrrh, honey, oil of roses, or Egyptian oil, to try their fecundity. A little after, in the same book, he orders ti\e cantharidcs, without their heads and feet, to be taken in mild wine, for expelling the sccundines; (h) but for the expulsion of the foetus, ten grains of Ethiopic cummin and castor, and myrrh, together with a little cantharidcs, in some wine. I METHOD OF DELIVERY. IN this part, it may be necessary to give some idea of the practice of midwifery. This branch was, at that time, in the’ j hands of women; and men were very rarely applied to, unless cases were very dangerous. From this we may natuyally ' suppose, that the method of delivery was exceedingly simple; and the labour was, in general, submitted to nature. Indeed, from what can be gathered on this subject, from Hippocrates, it appears, that the expulsion of the foetus was considered as the performance of nature; but when nature could not perform this necessary duty, they then had recourse to other methods. In the lirst book of the Diseases of Women, difficult labours are treated on. If a woman, at her full time, be seized with the pains of labour, and, after patiently waiting a considerable time, if the infant should not be delivered, he lies across, or presents with his feet. For when the head presents, the case is favourable; whereas, if any other part presents, a difficult ' labour follows. An olive, in a narrow mouthed jar, cannot be so easily extracted by the middle, as when one end pre- sents. ’ (i) The birth will be difficult, when the feet present; in which case, either mother or child most generally perish; nor is the birth without difficulty, when the foetus is dead, apoplectic, or double. He directs us how to treat women after delivery, and in difficult labours. In lingering labours, and a good presentation, sternutatories are to be administered. Sneezing happening to a woman that is troubled with hysteric fits, or who is in hard labour, is good, (k) The patient was directed to keep her mouth and nose shut during their administration. The placenta is to be extracted immediately after the foetus is delivered. (1) In all presentations, except where the head presents, we must push up whatever part presents, find bring down the head. If the foetus be even dead, this ought to be the practice; and if the foetus cannot be delivered, because its body is swelled, we are to separate it, and take it away by pieces. If the head presents, it is to be opened with a knife, and the bones of the skull being broken, are to be extracted with a pair of forceps, lest they should hurt the woman, or by an instrument, called umbryculus, firmly fixed on the clavicles, by which means it may be extracted gently. After I the head is deliveicd in this manner, if the child should stop at the shoulders, the arms are to be divided at the articulation; i and they being brought away, the rest of the body soon follows with ease. But if it will not yet give way, the whole breast I must be divided, and great care taken that the intestines be not wounded, lest they and their contents falling out, the operation should be retarded. Then the ribs being broken, and the scapul® extracted, the rest of the foetus w’ill easily follow, unless the abdomen be swelled; in which case, the belly must be punctured, and at the exit of the flatus, the child will be I brought along. If part of the child be already delivered, and (he rest will not follow', nor can that which is out be returned, ' the operator is to take away as much as he can of it, and pushing up the remainder, turn the head downwards; but previous to this operation, he should pare his nails, and use a crooked knife; the point and back of which must be covered with the I forefinger, at its introduction, lest it should hurt the uterus, which accident might prove fatal to the woman, (m) ! When the child’s head appears without the os uteri, and the rest of the body does not follow, (n) the foetus being dead, wet the fingers with water, and introducing them between the os uteri and Us head, put one finger into the mouth, and laying hold of it bring it along. When the body is delivered, and the head remains behind, in those cases where the child comes by the feet, the operator is to dip both his hands into water, and introducing them between the os uteri, and the head of the child, grasp the head with his fingers, and extract it. If the head be in the vagina, it may be delivered in the same manner. When the child remains dead in the uterus, and cannot be delivered, either by the force of medicines or nature; introduce the hand anointed with some unctuous cerate, and dividing the parts with an unguis fixed on the great finger, bring the foetus along as before. In his first Book of the Diseases of Women, he gives directions for excluding the secundines, provided they be not expelled in the natural way. If the secundines come not away immediately after the birth, the woman labours under a pain (h) Cantharidcs, to expel the secundines. (i) Illustration. (k) 11 Morb. mul. XCIII. 1, &c. Praenot. XIII. 11. Coac. III. 175. Aph. 35. Sect. V. (m) lie knew weft the danger of wounding the uterus. •' (1) Placenta to be immediately delivered. (n) Lib. de superfoetatione.