HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixxiii drink strong wine, (d) In an opthalrai^, a supervening looseness is good, (e) If bleeding, and purging, do not remove the epthalmia, (f) the inferior parts are to be strongly cauterized, or the humour lessened, (g) by some very drastic purgative, taking particular care not to excite vomiting, (h) And if the eyes become inflamed suddenly, we must not anoint them with anything, (i) Hippocrates, likewise scarrified the eyes with a sort of prickly thistle, called atractylis. (k) In the re- laxation, and tumour of the eyelids, termed Phalangosis, and Ptosis, Hippocrates, advised the cutting of the relaxed part of the skin, by a scalpel; (1) and then to secure the wound by a ligature with a needle of thread. (vij SCIATICA. IN sciatic persons, when the hipbone, says our author, falls out of it$ place, and is restored again, it creates a mwcous matter, (n) And those who have their hip bone come out upon a long continued pain of the sciatica, shall have the thigh bone wasted, unless they be cauterized for it. (o) CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE SURGERY OF HIPPOCRATES. THE practice of surgery to be observed in Hippocrates, which bears no comparison in point of merit to his other works, we next proceed to examine. On abscesses, our author’s remarks are, in general, judicious; he leaves the formation and pointing of the matter chiefly to nature ; and at the proper season, opens the part, either by the actual cautery, or incission. , The latter method we approve of, but the former we consider exceedingly cruel. But as surgery has received the most consider- able improvements, since the time of our author; and as this branch has arrived at a much higher degree of perfection, than any of the other departments of medicine, we shall, in the course of this work, be very particular as to the principal improv e- ments; and endeavour to do justice to the many excellent men, who have contributed to cultivate this noble art. We now shall briefly point out the merits and defects of our author’s surgery. For in some parts, he was very conversant, as may be seen, by his observations and practice. He most excelled in the treatment of fractures, dislocations, and wounds of the head; for on these subjects he has left us many pertinent and accurate remarks. On ulcers his opinions are tolerably just, as their being irritated by cold, but the rough purging he recommends, we by no means approve of; for, notwithstanding purges are universally given by the moderns in such distempers, it is a violent and unsuccessful practice ; and there are some of the pre- judices we wish to eradicate, having already commuicated a mild practice, that generally proves successful. Our author’s practice in wounds is rational; and we declare, that in most wounds, however large, if their should be no contusion, or injury of the bone, little else is necessary, than to bring the parts as nearly in contact, as possible, applying only compress, and bandage, binding the wound up in its blood ; which, if the patient be in a good habit, is the best balsam. This is the most simple, and natural cure of incised wounds, and seldom fails of success, if judiciously managed by practitioners, who have more the welfare of their patients at heart, than their own private emolument. His notions of wounds of the noble parts, and the viscera proving mortal, are in general true, when we except the intestines ; for, by gastroraphy the cure of wounded intestines has been effected frequently; and when mortifications have happened, many instances have occurred in which there has formed, as it were, an artificial anus, and the patients recovered. Amongst many defects in the ancient surgery, we must remark, that our author was ignorant of amputation; therefore, in dislocations of the ankle, wherein the tendons and cartilages were lacerated, he understood no method of cure; for in such cases in general, to amputate the limb is the only probable means of saving the patient’s life. On wounds and fractures of the cranium, he has been very elaborate : his conclusions from the symptoms being favourable, or unfavo«rable; his methods of discovering fractures, depressions, or fissures, his treatment on these occasions; and the success attending his endeavours to recover his patients, under such circumstances, are upon the whole, very judicious. His advising surgeons to be cautious in their prognostics in these cases, has been recom- mended by all practical writers since his time. His considering profound sleep, vertigo, and dimness of sight, amongst the ’ mortal signs, was just, and his notions of a concussion of the brain, incissions of the temples being hazardous; his prog- ^ u ncstics '{(t) Strong wine in inflamed eyes. (g) Cauteries to Hie extremities. (i) External ointments to the eyes forbid. (*) Lib. de vict. acut. I^VI. (e) Indicat. XII. 9. Aph. 17. Sect. VI. XK) Vomits improper. (Ic) Scarrified tlio eyes. Lib. de vis. (v.) Aph. 59. Sect. VI. (J^ De locis homine. (1) Cut for the relaxed eyelid. (oj De gland. X. Aph. 60. Sect. V.