( 1^0 ) THE VSE or THE ARTERIES Is therefore to propel the blood into the veins, secretory organs, and to convey and deposit diurnal nutn- jnent. ACTION OF THE VEINS. The blood which flows into the veins by the contraction of the heart and arteries, returns by them into the auri- cles, then into the ventricles of the heart. THE MEANS WHICH ASSIST THE RETURN OF THE BLOOD IN THE VEINS, ARE 1. The pressure of the arterial blood and arteries, upon the \eiuil blood. 2. The contraction of the muscles. 3. The pressure of the atmosphere. - 4. Respiration. The valves of the veins prevent the blood from passing back again in the veins. THE USE OF THE VEINS Is to return the blood to the heart. RESPIRATION. The entrance of the air, into the lungs, is called inspiration ; and its exit is known by the name of expiration. RESPIRATION IS DIVIDED INTO 1. SpontaDCOus, which is going on during sleep; or, at times, when we are not sensible of it; and, 2. Voluntary, which can be increased, or diminished, at pleasure. THE POWERS, BY WHICH THE CAVITY OF THE THORAX, AND OF THE LUNGS ARE DILATED, ARE 1, Contraction of the intercostal muscles and diaphragm, which dilate the cavity of the thorax. 2. The pressure of the elastic air, which expands the lungs. THE POWERS, BY WHICH THE AIR IS EXPELLED FROM THE LUNGS, ARE 1. A cessation of action in the intercostal muscles and dia- phragm. 2. The elasticity of the cartilages of the libs, when the in- tercostal muscles cease to act. .3. Contraction of the abdominal muscles. The cause exciting to inspiration is the rushing in of the at- mospheric air into the lungs, irritating their nerves; thus, by a coincidence of action in the nerves of the diaphragm, and intercostal muscles, they are excited to contraction: but the inspirated air, deprived of its element in the lungs, becomes unable to stimulate j* hence the power of inspiration ceases, and e.xpiration follows. THE EFFECTS OF INSPIRATION ARE 1. Distention of the pulmonary vessels which \sQiQ contortei and collapsed. 2. A more easy passage of the blood from the pulmonary ar- teries into the pulmonary veins, and thence into the heart. The primary use of respiration seems to be the absorption of some element of the air, from that which is inhaled, by which the nervous power, and animal heat seem to be generated. The element which is absorbed from the atmospheric air, is caloric and vital air; for the fixed air goes out of the lungs by expiration. THE GOOD PURPOSES OF RESPIRATION ARE, FOR 1. To mix the chyle with the blood. 2. The attenuation of the blood. 3. The motion of the venous blood, chyle, and lymph. 4. Expulsion of the perspirable matter from the lungs. 5. The voice and speech. 6. Deglutition, or swallowing, and sucking. 7. Smelling. 8. Expulsion of the urine, faces, and child-birtlr. HEAT OF THE IIUMAN BODY. A living body is warm;_a dead one cold. The heat of the body, in good health, according to Farenheit’s thermometer, is from ninety-four to an hundred de- grees, and never exceeds an hundred and nine in the most burning fevers.—Dr. BaiHie says, ninety eight; capable of being increased to one hundred. In the foetus, the animal heat is less; it increases toward* manhood ; and decreases in old age. Heat is increased by animal motion, but diminished by rest. The motion of caloric seems to be the proximate cause of ' heat. The matter of heat is combined w ith an ignited air ; which latter is absoibed by the lungs. The matter of heat can not only be procured by friction, or attrition of the fluids and solids, but other means—' as fermentation, putrefaction, &c. ' , THE USE OF HEAT Is to attenuate the fluids, and prevent their coagulation. ON