XIX INTRODUCTION, &c. to the university with credit. It should, however, be recollected, that universities are generally under the dominion of the sacred theological pi'ofession, and the discipline observed, agreeably -to the statutes, is more adapted to the purposes of religious faith, or classical erudition, than medicim*. Seven years are consumed in obtaining the degree of Master of Arts, in which acquisition no medical studies whatever are enforced; though every other branch of academical learning may be obtained in the highest degree of perfection. Any Master of Arts may enter on the medical line, have a Bachelor of Physic’s degree in one year, and a licence medichiam cxercereper tolam Angliam. How capable any student may be to visit the sick, and prescribe remedies in all diseases, after such an education, is not difficult to determine. It is hoped, however, that a more rational mode of study will be established, and that Schola Medicince may assist in, promoting such a de- sirable and necessary alteration; for which the work was principally written, in the author’s apartments at St. Alban’s Hall, Oxford.As a book of information on the subjects of which it treats, it may be useful to the students of law, physic, and divinity, to philosophers, and even the nobility and gentry; for every gentleman and magistrate should have some general know ledge of the human body. To professors of learned universities it solicits protection, as it is presumed it may greatly tend to abridge their labours. The mode of procedure, recommended in ASc/io/a A/e- dicincBy is directly contrary to the former university plans of medical education; for these say, ubiphilosophia desinit, ibi medicina inciplt: but it is insisted on, that youths, intended to prac- tice medicine, should be first instructed in anatomy very young, and familiarised to practice by a studious and accurate observation of the sick in all possible situations of disease. After receiving the numerous facts with diligence, that an extensive medical practice presents, the student may in- quire, at leisure, into the causes and effects he hath actually observed, with all the various pheno- mena of nature at the university. Aristotle has justly asserted, nihil est in intellectu quod non ante fuit in sensibus.\ To advise or teach pupils to reason and account for what they have not seen, or to mediate on any visible subject by only written descriptions, is nearly as sagacious, as to attempt to teach a person born blind the names, tints, and different shades of colours; or those born deaf, the sweet modulations and musical chords, that produce the most ravishing hannonv, to a refined musical ear. Who can expect that any person should be enabled to discern and com- prehend the beauties, logical arrangement, and perfections of literary composition, who is ignorant of words, sentences, and grammar.? The practice of anatomy, and of all the prepai'atory branches of medicine, is the grammar to the art of physic, and leads the mind safely to the more minute in- quiries and sublimer studies. It is proceeding directly ad rem; w'hilst all other modes are, more or less, circuitous, doubtful, or fallacious, and often terminate in a vain supposition of actual knowledge where little profound science exists. Morbi non *cerbis curantur, sed remediisi as the greatest of the Romans Celsus says, the general and partic\ilar application of wdiich can e * ' only The chief reason of vvritingthe work at Oiford was the opportonity of examining extensive libraries, to collect and compile different parts of th^ l.atin Schola, &c. and it.is mentioned, with great gratitude, that the author’s intentions were liberally promoted by the learned anatomical professor Dr, Parsons, ai>d other eminent, profound scholars, who are an honour to that distinguished university. t This excellent true proposition has laid the foundation of the greatest part of the celebrated Mr. Locke’s essay on the extent of human under- standing, and if strictly attended to, would chace from the human mnrd, all chimerical false notions and prejudices. Locke should not only be read, l>Ht studied with close attention,