xxxix HISTORY OF MEDICINE With respect to chronical distempers, the method of cure practised by Hippocrates, fc) consisted principally in regulating the diet, directing proper exercises, prescribing baths, unctions, frictions, and very few medicines. In diseases of the acute kind, he was convinced, by experience, that nature alone, bore a great share, fd) and was very powerful, in conducting the disease through its difi'erent st gcs. In his sixth book, of his Epidemics, he shews the absurdity of Herodicus, who recommended exercise in acute disorders. He conceived, that contraries were the remedies to their opposites. Evacuation cures the diseases which arise from repletion; and repletion those which arise from evacuation. Thus heat de troys cold, and cold heat. .Medicine, says he, is no more than an addition of what is wanting; (f) and a subtraction, and retrenchment of what is superfluous. Some- times it is necessary to dilate, sometimes to contract, We must pay a great attention to that which affords relief, (h) and that which does injur\-, that which the patient easily bears, and that which he can not support. A rule worth^ of the great mind that conceived it ! We must do nothing ; we must sometimes remain at rest, or without attempting any thing, ftJ By this means, if we do no good to the patient, we do no harm. BLEEDING. HIPPOCR.'STES recommended bleeding with a large orifice in all acute inflammatory diseases, pains in th • 1 evd, peri- pneumony, pleurisy, inflammatory sore tlm.at, oppression of the breast, suppression of urine, the tympanum, and dropsy, (k) The pain in the head is cured by opening the vena ranina. (1) When fluxes of humours descend from the shoulders, to the elbow, they are removed by opening a vein. (m) It has been sujiposed, he here means the Rheumatism. Bleeding cures the suppression of urine ; but for this purpose the inward veinsmust be opened. (n) If bleeding or purging be requisite, the spring is the most convenient season for cither. (o) He recommends bleeding for the tympany and dropsy, (p) for a disease, he called the overgrown spleen, and opening the veins behind the ears, was the scythian practice to cure the sciatica. He imagined this caused impotency. Fordiseases above the liver, he bled in the arm ; if below,'in the ankle. Fur a jaundice, under the tongue, (q) In a consumption he likewise bled; and relates a case of a young man, who eat heartily and yet wasted; ('/J after trying various purgatives, and vomits, without success, he directed the veins of each arm to be opened, alternately, (s) till the patient had scarce any blond left in his body ; by this means he was perfectly cured. He avoids bleeding, when a disorder is near a crisis, or tends to suppuration. PURGING. THOSE who are in a good state of health, are injured by purging medicines, (t) In summer it is most convenient to purge the upper parts ; (u) and in the winter the lower; but in the dog-days, purging is improper, and troublesome, (x) Lean persons, and such as vomit with ease, must be purged upwards ; (yj but this should be directed with great caution, in the winter. Those who do not vomit easily, (z) and are in a good habit of body, ought, if necessary to purge downwards, if it be in summer. Consumptive people f'aj must not be purged with a vomit, (b) Melancholy people must be strongly purged downwards; (c) and in like manner all must observe, the contrary way of purging other habits. In acute diseases, if the matter (<?) Chronic disorders. ^ (d) Acufe diseases. {p) Necessary to dilate or contract. An admirable precept. (1) Pain in (lie head loc. inhoin. XLIX. 10. 11. Praidict. XXXVI. 5. (nj Suppression of urine. Apli. 36. Sect. VI. fp) Dc affect. In a dropsy. Places wlierc he bled, {sj Epid lib. a. sub. principio. (f) Apb. 36. 37. Sect. II. (v) Purgant, V. 8. Aer. aq. loc. XXX. 2. 5. 8. Apb. 5. Sect. IV. (z) Morb. XII. 35 Apb 7. Sect. IV. (a) Not proper to vomit coiistimpiive people. Loc in horn. XXXV. 4. ' (l>) Hippocrates called vomiting purging upwards. (e) Contrary remedies. (/) Addition and Subtraction, f'iy An excellent ob.scrvation. f'kj Acute diseases. fm^ 2. Morb. LIX 22. Pain or bumors in the elbow. (foy Purging in spring and autumn. Apb. 47. Sect. VI. Aph. 53. Sect. VII frj Bleeds repeatedly in a consumption. (u) Proper seasons. Epidein XXV. 16. C^) 2. Morb. XIII. 12. Apb. 6. Sect. IV. Intern, affect. IV. 26. XIII. 36. Aph. 8. Sect. IV. (c) Aer. aq. loc. XI. 2. Aph. ?. Sect. I\.