( U3 ) 1 The tJSE. To receive the blood from the uterus; prepare it for the foetus ; and propel it into the branches of the umbi- lical vein. THE UMBILICAL CHORD 1 Is.an intestinal-formed chord, going from the navel of the I foetus to the middle ot the placenta. The length is frequently about three spans. I SUBSTANCE CONSISTS OF FOUR PARTS: , 1. A cutaneous covering from the vagina. 2. A cellular one, filling up the umbilical vagina. i[ 3. The umbilical vein, arising from the substance of the pla- ! centa, and going through the umbilical chord, and i navel of the foetus, as far as the liver, evacuates its contents into the vena portae. I 4. 'Two umbilical arteries, arising in the foetus from the hy- pogastric arteries, near the sides of the urinary bladder, ascending to the navel, and going* through the umbi- 1,.^ lical chord, divide into an innumerable number of branches in the substance of the placenta. USE, II The umbilical vein carries blood to the foetus from the pla- centa ; and the two umbilical arteries return it into I the placenta. MTHE MEMBRANOUS OVUM OF THE FOETUS. iThe foetus, in the cavity of the uterus, is inclosed in a large membranous ovum, which consists of three membranes; namely, IThe external is filamentous, where it adheres to the uterus and placenta. The middle is the membrane, called chorion. iThe internal membrane is named amnion. j • ■ USE. [To contain the liquor amnii, which, by flowing through the vagina; assists in dilating at the time of parturition; ' the inferior orifice. I ' —. I THE LIQUOR OF THE AMNION : Is a limpid fluid ii> the cavity of the ovum with the foetus, j ORIGIN. II is secreted by the exhalcnt arteries of the membranes of 1 the ovum. ( 1 / • ' USE. To defend the foetus from the pressure of the uterus. THE FOETUS. In the first month, the ovum is about the size of a pigeon’s egg, filled with the liquor of the amnion, in the middle of which the foetus is swimming, and resembles a small mass. . THE INTERNAL PARTS, BY WHICH A FOETUS DIFFERS FROM AN ADULT, ARE 1. The foramen ovale, found in the septum of the auricles of the heart. 2. Botallis canal, which goes, oblicjuely, from the trunk of the pulmonary arteries to the aorta. 3. The,lungs of the foetus are blackish, collapsed, and sink in water; but as soon as the infant breathes, they will swim. 4. All glands in the foetus are proportionally larger than in an adult. 5. The urachus is a thin membranous canal, ascending from the superior lundus ot the bladfler to the navel; sometimes it is found entirely empty. 6. The gieat intestines are filled with a green viscid matter called meconium. ^ All canals and vessels, peculiar to the foetus, are dosed, in general, after birth, and form a substance like a liga- ment. ® Almost every process of bone, in the foetus, is cartilaginous and are therefore called epjphises. ANGIOLOGIA, or DOCTRINE of the ^ VESSELS. OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. The vessels are long membranous canals, carrying blood or any other fluid. DIVISION. Into arteries, veins, and lymphatics, or absorbents. SITUATION. In every part of the body, except, as some say, in the epi- dermis, membrana araclmoidcs, and nails; in the arachnoid membrane; however, they arc sometimes visible. OF THE ARTERIES IN GENERAL. Arteries are those membranous canals which pulsate, and carry the blood from the heart to every part of the body, gradually becoming narrower in their passage.