xc HISTORY OF MEDICINE. dined to ronsiJer more ancient. The fourth is Galen, who lived towards the end of the second century, whose character is well known, as well as the liberty he unfortunately allowed himself, of often wrongfully criticising all the most illustrious phy- sicians, since the time of Hippocrates; so that his greatest merit consists in the fragments of the ancients, whom lie quotes, for the most part, in order to refute them. This honour he frequently does to Asclepiades, whom, in other respects, he allows to have been most ingenious, most learned, and eloquent, to the highest degree; but an adversary to his peripatetic system of theory. Besides these testimonials of authors, and of common fame, there is still remaining a beautiful antique busto, intire, and exhibited to the public view; (t) in that magnificent collection in the museum of the capital of Rome, bare headed, his hair short, without a beard, and with a cloak, or pallium, such as th.e Greek sages wore, and with Greek letters on the face of the square antique basis, expressing his name. This busto was discovered in the beginning of this century, under ground, within the walls of Rome, near the Porta Capena, where, not improbably, it might have anciently served for a decoration of some portico, some library, some school, or public building, in that principle quarter of the city. From the authority of these documents only, it remains for us to trace out the conduct and opinions of this celebrated phy- sician, by collecting together the scattered accounts, and by deducing from thence the most probable conjectures. We must, in the first place, ascertain, with all the exactness in our power, the time in which he flourished. The ancient writers, who, generally speaking, were much less accurate in their chronological disquisitions than we are, furnish us only such imperfect lights, as rather fix our doubts, than remove them, (u) Pliny says, he lived in the time of Pompey, which may be seen repeated by almost all the moderns who have mentioned him. But the authority of Cicero, rather induces us to believe that Asclepiades was somewhat more ancient, and that he belonged to tire times preceding those of Pompey; because in his dialogue on the orator, he makes Lucius Crassus speak of him as one already dead, (x) Now this dialogue, though it was written by Cicero, when he was fifty-two years of age, that is, in the six hundredth and twenty-eighth year of the foundation of Rome, was* feigned to have been spoken in the consulship of Phillipus, that is, in the six hundredth and thirty-third year, when Cicero was about thirteen years of age, so that he not being present at it, he makes it recited to him afterwards by Cotta, who was one of the interlocutors in it; and who died in the six hundredth and eightieth year of the foundation of Rome. In this dialogue then, Cicero does not appear to speak in his own proper person. He puts what he had to say in the mouth of Lucius Licinius Crassus, at whose country scat he lays the scene of the conversation. As to this Crassus, who was a senator celebrated for his great eloquence, as well as his political knowledge, and who was at that time forty years old, and died a few months after, Cicero makes him say many things alluding to the circumstances of the times; and among other men of merit, he makes him mention Asclepiades, as having been his physician and friend, as well as other worthy and noble personages of the dialogue, among whom was Quintus Mutius Scevola, who must, at that time, have been far advanced in years, and was a most celebrated civilian ; and Marcus Antonius, a great orator, who died four years after, and was grandfather to the famous Mark Anthony the triumvir. So that it is not credible, that if Asclepiades had been then alive, or had lived any- time after, Cicero would have committed so superfluous an anachronism, he, who was not used to take such liberties as Plato often did in his dialogues; as if in his disregard for chronological exactness, he had meant them the more to resemble dra- matic compositions. While Cicero, on the other hand, on more occasions than one, declares himself a scrupulous observer of the laws of proba- bility and propriety, to which he also kept up in the other parts of the same dialogue: so that, to those personages of the dialogue, and not to Cicero himself, should w-e attribute the personal knowledge, or acquaintance of Asclepiades. Cicero must have been too young, and yet almost all the moderns, who have mentioned Asclepiades, have failed of making this due distinction. And as Pompey was by some months younger than Cicero, the expression of Pliny placing Asclepiades in the time of Pompey, cannot be otherwise solved than by understanding it, of the first fifteen years of his life. But this not appearing to be the natural sense of that phrase, it may be more reasonably suspected, that this is one of the usual (f) Blass. Caryopliil, diss, miscell. Rom. I^IC. p. 331, and lo. Bottarimus. Capitolin. tom. 1. lav, 3. Rom. 1741 and 1750. Lib. XXVLcap. 8. fi) Do oratoxe. I. 02.