( 168 ) TilE CA'USES wnicn propel the chyle into the LACTEALS, ARE 1- The absorbent power of the lacteals, 2. The adhesive power of the chyle to the mbuths of these vessels,. 3. The peristalic motion of the intestines and motion of the abdominal compression, by which the internal surface of the intestines is contracted, and become immerged in the chyle. The chief absorption of the chyle happens in the jejunum and ileum, very little in the duodenum and great in- testines- THE PASSAGE OF THE CHYLE FROM THE INTESTINES IS 1. Into the lacteals. 2. receptaculum chyli. 3. Through the thoracic duct into the left subclavian vein, drop by drop. THE POWERS WHICH MOVE THE CHYLE THROUGH THE LACTEALS ARE 1. Pressure of the lacteals by the contraction of the abdo- minal press. 2. The pulsation of the meseraic arteries which lie near the lacteals. 3. The contractile force of the lacteals and thoratic duct, which is considerable; also, the pressure of the chyle from behind. 4. The motion of the respiratory organs. The return of the chyle in a retrograde direction; namely, toward the intestines, or back again into the thoracic duct, is prevented: 1. By the frequent valves of the lacteals and thoracic duct. 2. By the diameter of the lacteals continually increasing. 3. By the pressure of the chyle from behind. At the time when the chyle is absent, the humours secreted in the primse viae pass through the lacteals. The passage of the blood from the subclavian vein into the thoracic duct, is prevented by the valve at the en- trance of this duct. There is a change made upon the chyle in its passage towards the blood, by 1. A diluting of the chyle by the lymph of the lymphatic, or absorbent vessels, which evacuate themselves into the receptaculum chyli and thoracic duct, from almost every part of the body. 2. An impregnation of the chyle with a nutritious jelly, • which the mesenteric glands and lymphatics mi.\ with it. 3. A greater animalistation of chyle by this mixture, and through which its crudity is changed. THE USE OF CHYLE, 1. By chyle, the constituent principles are carried to the blood; from which, the blood, other humours and solid parts consist—such as a great quantity of water, some oil, salts, jelly, mucus, fixed air, or carbonic a,cid gas, and a small portion of earth. 2. The putrid tendency df the blood, and other humours, is restrained by the mixture of recent and acescent chyle with it. SANGUIFICATION. Sanguification is the changing of chyle into blood. The chyle, after having been mixed with the blood for twelve hours, has not intirely lost its peculiarities, though it shall have circulated through the lungs and over the body some hundreds of times. IN ITS PASSAGE OVER THE BODY, 1. Theadeps of the chyle seems to be changed, partly into red globules of blood, and partly to be deposited in the cellular structure. 2. The gelatinous and watery part of the chyle becomes the serum of the blood. 3. The aqueous part dilutes the blood and all the humours. 4. The earthy portion is converted into nutriment of the bones and solid parts. Sanguification requires that the globules, which arc white, lighter, and larger than the globules of blood, be- come red, more dense, heavier, and smaller. Redness seems to be eflected by the globules of chyle being mixed with a portion of iron earth and fixed alkali in the small vessels of the lungs and muscles, by long at- trition. The greater density of globules of chyle arises from a conti- nued compression in the small vessels. The greater gravity depends on their increased density, and admixture of martial earth. The diminution of size seems to depend on the attrition and compression of the globules in the small vessels. THE USE OF SANGUIFICATION Is to generate blood, which serves to fill the blood-vessels; irritate the heart and arteries; generate heat; also, for the secretion of all the humours, and exercise of the vital actions, nutrition,