I ( 127 } The MUSCLES OF THE CRANIUM. There are three pair of muscles covering the head. The frontal muscles, reaching from the superciliary margins of the frontal bone to the roots of the hair, cover the forehead like an aponeurosis. i The occipital muscles, from the superior arches of the occi- pital bone, under the aponeurosis of the cranium. » The temporal muscles arise from the temporal region, and each ends in a tendon affixed to the coronoid process of the inferior ma.xillary bone. ACTION. t, It raises the inferior maxillary bone towards the superior, and shuts the mouth. THE APONEUROSIS OF THE CRANIUM i Begins from the occipital tubercle ; ascends, and covers the head entirely, as far as the root of the nose, and su- ’ perciliary arches on the sides; it adheres to the zygomatic arch. I - THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. iThe cavity of the abdomen is contracted in every direction by ■ five pair of muscles; namely, ill. The external oblique, which arises from the crista of the jl ilium and os pubis, and is affixed ^to the eight lower ribs. ! 2. The internal oblique, from the crista of the ileum and os i pubis, to the margins of all the false ribs, and to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum. ’ 3. The rectus abnominis, .from the os pubis, near the linea alba, to the ensiform cartilage, and to the three lower I true ribs. 4. The pyramidalis, from the crista of the os pubis into the linea alba, towards the navel. 15. The transversalis, from the transverse spinous apophyses ! of the four superior lumbar vertebra, going trans- versely to the linea alba: it is connected to the crista ! of the ileum, and to the pubis; and above, to the in- I ternal surface of the ribs. USE OF THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 1. To form the parietes, or covering of the abdomen. |2. Tu contain the abdominal viscera. •3. To constitute, with the assistance of the diaphragm, the abdominal pressure. I4. By the assistance of which the following actions are faci- litated ; Digestion. Expulsion of the excrements. urine. child, in labour. THE PARTS WHICH FORM THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN ARE 1. The linea alba, which is a white tendinous line in the middle of the abdomen, descending from the ensiform cartilage to the symphisis of the pubis: it is formed by the junction of three pair of muscles; namely, The external oblique, internal ditto, transversalis. 2. The semilunar line is also tendinous; and is formed at the sides of the linea alba ; in form of a curve, in the ob- lique muscles. 3. The umbilical ring is a round tendinous aperture, in the the middle of the linea alba, which, in the foetus, gives passage to the umbilical chord, but after birth it closes. ~ 4. The inguinal, or abdominal rings, arc two oblong tendi- nous openings: one at each groin, in the inferior margin of the external oblique muscle. In males, the spermatic chord passes through this ring; but in females, the round ligament of the uterus. 5. Poupart’s ligaments are the margins of the tendons of the external oblique muscles, one in each groin, extending from the anterior and inferior spine of the ileum, to the crista of the os pubis ; under these ligaments, the crural vessels and nerves pass. MUSCLES OF THAT INTESTINE, called RECTUM. The orifice of the anus can be contracted, or dilated. 'It is contracted by the sphincter which surrounds the end of this intestine. It is dilated by those muscles, called levatores ani, which arise from the internal surface of the pubis, ischium, and ileum, and terminate in the intestine. SPLANCHNOLOGY, or DOCTRINE THE VISCERA. DIVISION OF THE HUMAN BODY. The human body is divided into head, trunk, and ' extremities. The head is subdivided into the part covered w-ith hair and face. The part covered with hair is distinguished by the vertex, or top of the head, sinciput, or fore part, occiput, or back part; and laternal parts.