2., The- ( >6« ) The seat of this sensation is in the stomach, T-he cause seems to be frictiop of the rugae of the s(ornach> when empty ; and irritation from the gastric juice. THE EFFECTS OF LONG CONTINUED IIU-NGEU, A11E A very sharp acrimony of the'humours, which produces fainting, sharp pains of the stomach, fmtid smell in the mouth, grinding of the teeth, convulsions, acute fever, delirium, and madness. THE USE. To remind men of eating which is necessary to support life. THIRST IS A SENSATION, Which creates a desire of drinking. The seat of this sensation seems to be in the fauces, on the surface of the,tongue or stomach. The cause is a dryness of the fauces, or acrimony in the stomach. The effect of long continued thirst, is a thickness and acri- mony of the humours. ’ THE USE. It instigates us to drink, by which the humours are diluted, and generated. MASTICATION Is the action of dividing the food between the teeth, or chewing. The teeth, jaw-bones,'tongue, checks, and lips, constitute this organ. THE PARTS MOVING THIS ORGAN, ARB 1. The muscles, which open and shut the mouth. 2. The tongue, which continually puts the food between the teeth. 3. The cheeks and lips, which prevent the chewed victuals from escaping out of the mouth. THE EFFECTS OF MASTICATION ARE 1. A division of the food into very small parts. 2. An effusion, or envellopeinent of the food in saliva, which dilates, resolves, excites to action, and forms it into a mass for swallowing; also, by moistening the fauces, allays thirst. 3. An admixture of the mucus of the mouth and fauces, which lubricates the masticated food for swallowing; prevents the air mixed with it, from being disengaged, and mixes the oleaginous particles with the watery. 4, The admixture of atmospheric air with the food, during mastication, which assists fermeutatiun. USE. Mastication is necessary for deglutition and digestion; it may indeed be called the beginning of digestion. DEGLUTITION XS THE PASSAGE OF THE MASTICATED FOOD, FROM THE CAVITY OF THE MOUTH: 1. Into the cavity of the fauces, 2. From the fauces into the stomach. The powers, which carry the food from the cavity of the mouth into the fauces, are 1. The'closing of the jaws, to prevent the food from es- caping. 2. The pressure of the tongue upon the palate of the mouth, by which the food resting upon the tongue, is thrust forwards into the c ivity of the fauces. 3. The dilatation of the pharynx, which gives passage to the food. > The pharynx is dilated, not only by its own muscles; hut the root of the tongue, os hyoides, and laiynx, being brought into action by their muscles; at the same time contribute much to the case of swallowing. The powers which prevent the food from going out of the fauces into the posterior cavity of the nose; the orifices of the Eustachian tubes, or the fissure of the glottis may be reckoned : 1. The epiglottis, which closes the fissure of the glottis. 2. The muscles, which contract the posterior part of the glottis. 3. The muscles, which elevate the uvula, and velum pendu- ; lum palati, towards the postei'ior foramina of the nostrils. 4. The muscles, which close the orifice of the Eustachian . tubes. The mouthful of food in the dilated cavity of the pharynx is i carried into the oesophagus : 1. By its own weight. 2, The compression of the distended pharynx, which con- tracts by the irritation of the food on passing into its 1 cavity. The food is carried from the cesophagus into the stomach, by the contractile power of the muscular fibres of the oesophagus. When the act of swallowing is over, the cardia, or superior- orifice of the stomach is closed by its own fibres. ’ The phenomena observed in swallowing liquids, are as follow: ^ 1. A vessel, containing liquid, rests upon the upper lip, and‘ i the head is beat backward., '