THE mDULLA OF BONE$i This is an oleous substance, contained in the medullary cavities of the large and long bones. LIGAMENTS. These arc elastic strong membranes, connecting the extremi- ties of moveable bones. t'SE. To prevent too great brittleness. CARTILAGES. These are nhitish elastic substanc«;s, growing on the bones. DIVISION. 1. Into obcUicent, at the extremities of I)Oncs, giving smooth covering to the heads, and articulating cavities. 2. Intcrarticular cartilages, adhering to bones which are not joined to each other; but situated between arricu- iations, as in the maxilla, or ja-w-bone; clavicle, and knee. 3. Into uniting cartilages, which join bones together by an immoveable connection, as the bones of the pubis, bodies of the vertebra.', 6cc. USE. Of obducent cartilages, is to render the articulations smooth; of the uniting cartilages to connect certain bones to- gether. SYNOVIA. This is a humour resembling mucus, contained in the articu- lating cavities, and secreted by the synovial glands. USE. To tubricatc the moveable extremities of bones, and to pre- vent concretion with otliers. THE ARTICULATING GLANDS. These arc small glands, situated in articulating foveac, and capsular ligaments. THE VESSELS OF BONES. The vessels going to bones are arteries and veins, which are distributed on the external and internal periosteum; also between the lamelltB of bones. USE. 'I'o afford nourishment for the bone, and to secrete the medulla. THE NERVES OF BONES. A few nerves enter through small foramina, to the medulla, and internal periosteum, which is sensible, though the calcareous substance of the bone is void of feeling.— AVhy should not n<'rves be distributed between the la- mina of bones as well as arteries and veins, and pro- duce sensibility in the iuteinal periosteum? DIVISION. Into capsular, which surround the articulations, like a mem- branous sac; into connect ng ligaments, which con- nect moveable bones togetlier as a chord. In the acetabulum of the os innominatum, there, is the liga- mcntuin teres; and in the knee, there is the crucial ligamciit: other articulations have no internal liga- ments. USE. The capsular ligaments connect the heads of moveable bones, and prevent the s)novia Irom escaping. Connecting ligaments connect together, and strengthen ibo extremities of moveable bones. A TABLE OF THE CONNECTIONS OF EVERY BONE OF THE HUMAN BODY. The Fkojjt.'VL Bone is connected with The parietal bones. The bones of the nose, d'he cheek bones, The lachrymal bones. The superior maxillary bones. The ethmoid bone, The sphoenoid bone. T f I'he coronial suture. I larmouy. Harmony. ^b>-< ^^^rmony. Harmony. Harmony. ^Harmony. The Pariet.vl Bones are connected with One another, The temporal bones, The speenoid bone, The frontal bone, The occipital bone, priie sagital suture, j The srjuainmous suture, , J The squammous suture, j ^ 'l d’he coronal suture, j I The occipital or laiub- J L doidal sutiire. The Occipital Bone is connected with f The lambdoidal suture. I I The lambdoidal suture, ^by-^Synchond rosis. I 1 Ginglymus. J Syndesmosis. The SPHtENoiD Bone is connected with 'Sphoenoidal harmony, Haniiony. Gomjihosis. The temporal bones, d'iie parietal bones, The spheenoid bone, The atlas. The epistropheus, The frontal bone, The ethmoid bone, The vomer, The occipital bone, Tlic parietal bones, The temporal bones, 'I'he cheek bones, The superior maxillary, The palate bones, Synchondrosis; ^by-^ Squammous suture. Spliocnoiual harmony. Spha'iioidal harmony. Sphccnoidal harmony, J (^Sphoenoidal harmony, 'rhetl