( 107 ) The wrist consists of eight bones, which form two rows. The hand consists of five bones; namely, 4) Metacarpal bones of the fingers. 1 Metacarpal bone of the thumb. The fingers have fourteen small bones, called Phalanges: 2 In the thumb. 3 Compose each finger. The thigh has one bone, called Femur, or bone of the thigh. The leg consists of three bones : Tibia, Fibula, Patella, or Knee pan. The tarsus, or instep, has seven bones. The foot consists of five bones, one for each toe» THE DIFFERENT SPECIES OF MOVEABtE CONNECTION MAY BE UNDERSTOOD AS FOLLOWS: 1. Enarthrosis, is an articulation, moveable in every di- rection, as the head of the thigh-bone in the deep cavity of the os inriomlnatum, called Acetabulum. 2. Arlhrcdia, is an articulation in every direction, with the shallow cavity, as the head of the os humeri with the glenoid cavity of scapula, or the fore finger,^ with the metacarpal bone supporting it. 3. Ginglymus, is an articulation, admitting of flexion, and extension only, as the leg bends towards the thigh, or the arm upon the fore arm. 4. Trochoides, admits of rotatory motion only, as the alias, or first vertebra of the neck, with the tooth-formed process of the drntator second. 5. Amphyarthrosis, admits of a very obscure motion, scarcely perceptible, as the bones of the hand, and foot. The toes have fourteen phalanges ; namely, 2 In the great toe. 3 In each of the others. CONNECTION OF BONES. There are three kinds of connection: 1. Moveable, called Articulation. 2. Immoveable, and 3. Mediate connection. THE SPECIES OF IMMOVEABLE CONNECTION ARE THUS distinguished: 1. Suture, is a connection of bones by means of tooth- like margins, as the. bones of the skull. 2. Harmony, is a connection of bones by slight rugous margins, not dentiform, as in most bones of the face. 3. Gomphosis, is a connection of bones, in which one is fixed in the other like a nail in the wall, as the roots of the teeth in the alveoli, or sockets of the jaw. There are- five species of articulation, or moveable con- nection ; namely, 1. Deep articulation, or Enarthrosis. 2. Superficial, Arthrodia. 3. Flexible, Ginglymus, 4. Rotatory, Trochoides. 5. Obscure, Amphyarthrosis. There, are three species of immoveable connection; namely, 1. Sutura, or suture. 2. Harmonia, or harmonic. 3. Gomphosis, or tooth-like indentation. Mediate connection, or symphysis, has five species: 1. Synchondrosis, or cartilaginous junction symphysis. 2. Syssarcosis, or muscular symphysis. ' 3. Syneurobis, or ligamentous symphysis. 4. Syndesmosis, or membranous symphysis. 5. Synostosis, or bony symphysis. THAT CONNECTION OF BONES, WITH ANOTHER BODY BETWEEN THEM, MAY BE THUS DESCRIBED: 1. Synchondrosis, is a connection of bones by means of an intervening cartilage, as the bodies of the vertebraj, or bones of the pubis. 2. Syssarcosis, is a connection of bones by means of muscles, as the os hyoides, or bone of the tongue, is connected to several neighbouring parts. 3. Syndesmosis, is a connection of bones by an intermedi- ate ligament, as the radius with the ulna, or the tibia with the fibula. 4. Syneurosis, is a connection of bones by means of membrane; thus in the foetus, the parietal bones are connected with the frontal bone, or os frontis. 5. Synostosis, is a connection of bones, or rather con- cretion, by means of an intermediate bony substance; thus the lower jaw, which, in the foetus, consists of two bones, afterwards becomes firmly united in the middle. THS