( 7 ) PLATE V. Tlie bat'k View of the Skeleton. Of the head and nett-. a. Ossa parletalia, or parietal bones, are on the sides. b. Os occipitis is posterior. 1, The sagittal suture divides the upper part of the cra- nium into two equal parts. i 2. Tlic lambdoidal suture joins the os occipitis with the j bones of the synciput. I c. Os mala-, or cheek-bone, j d. The lower maxillary bone. e. The seven vertebrae of the neck. Of the bones in the trunk. The bones of the whole trunk are divided into the spine, I thorax, and pelvis. ' The dorsal spine is that column of bones reaching from the 1 condyle of (he occipital bone to the os sacrum, containing I the spinal marrow. The whole spine consists of twenty-four j vertebraj, which arc divided into three parts; e. the seven j uppermost are the rer^e^rcc of the neck ; 3. the twelve in the . middle are dorsal vertebraj; 4. the five inferior are the verte- I brae of the loins. Every one has a body, two epiphyses, and I seven pn cesses. 5. Os sacrum. 6. Os coccygis. ! A. The first vertebra of the neck is nominated atlas; the : af/ur has no body nor spine. j E. The second vertebra, epistropheus, besides the processes ! it has a dental process, like a tooth. The use of the spine is to keep the body erect, to leave more room for motion, to sustain the head over the trunk, to I receive and preserve the spinal marrow, and to admit the nerves to pass through the Internal openings. f. The clavicle, it is the first bone formed in the feetus, and is of a spongy fragile substance. ItsjKeis, I. to strengthen the superior extremities, and to hinder the falling too much forward on the breast: II. to give an origin to several muscles: III. to preserve and defend from injury the great subclavian vessels, which lay under- neath. g. Scapulae, homoplatce; the shoulder blade-bones. 7. Acro.nion. The clavicles are fixed to it. 8. Processus coracoidcus, or coracoid process. 9. The short process, or cervix, where a sinus is formed for the os humeii. 10. Thespjrieof the scapula, dividing the posterior part into two. The use of tie scapula. 1. To sustain and connect the arm with the trunk. It. To give rise or insertion to many mus- cles. 111. To defend the contents of the thorax. • The ribs or costoe. b. The ribs form the lateral parts of the thorax. Commonly there arc twenty-four, twelve on each side. The true ribs, or costa vera, are the seven uppermost ribs,, connected on each side by means of their cartilages with the sternum, and with the ribs of the opposite side, make so many full circles. Sec also 'I'abie IV. False ribs, not ha, or short ribs, are those which follow the former, Atid are five, not touching the sternum, but are con- nected with it by their cartilages. The substance of the ribs is on the outside -compact, but in- ternally spongy. The use of the ribs. They form the sides of the thorax; during respiration they increase or diminish the cavity of the thorax; they defend the lungs and the. heart; many muscles adhere to them ; and externally and anteriorly are placed the mamma, breasts. Pelvis. The pelvis is in the inferior part of the trunk, and acquires that name from its shape. The pelvis is composed of the following eight bones: On the posterior part of the pelvis is the os sacrum, 5. and os coccygis 6.* Laterally the ilium, L with the superior margin called crista On the foreside of the pelvis the ossa pubis, (see Tab. IV.) On the inferior part of the pelvis ossa ischii. k. In women tliose bones are smaller ami more asunder than in men, particularly the ossa pubis; thus they make the ca- vity of the pelvis, and the angle between the os pubis and ischii, larger, for the better accommodation of the fmtus, and for its easier exclusion in the birth. The connexion of those bones is by means of cartilages and ligaments. The use of them all is to form the pelvis, and to make an acetabulum, to receive the head of the thigh-bone. The use of the pelvis is the following = to defend part of the intestinum ileum, the rectum, and the urinary bladder; in men, the vesiculse seminales, and spermatic ducts; in wo- men, the uterus, vagina, with the adherent parts. The superior extremities. f. Claviculse, g. shoulder-blade, Z. shoulder-bone. 11. Ex- ternal condyle. 12. Internal condyle.,ia. lladius. n. Ulna,, the superior part of which is the olecranon ; the inferior processus styloideus. o. Carpus. /(.Metacarpus, Phalanges of the fingers. The lower extremities. ■ r. Os femoris. 13. Trochanter major. 14..Trochanter mi- nor. 15. Conclyius internus. 16. Coiulylus c.xternus. 'I’ibia. t. Fibula. 17. Malleolus externus. 18. Malleolus internus, u. Tarsus, v. Metatarsus, to. Phalanges. * Some Anatomists will add.the os sacrum and os coccygis under the name of vtUebra spuria.