HISTORY OF MEDICINE IV the fipbl who discovered the art of magic; and to have observed, with greater accuracy, planetary motion, and formation of the world. In later times, physic and magic were practised together. The knowledge of physic was thence carried to Egypt, and cultivated more than in other countries, and by them attributed to the invention of Hemes Trismegistus, whom the Latins called Mercury, and named after him the herb mercurialis. The same Hermes is said to have instructed Osiris, king of Egypt, and his wife and sister Isis, in Medicine, as well as other arts : for in very ancient inscriptions, it appears, that Hermes was the jjreceplor, or, at least, the adviser of Isis ; and that Osiris and Isis were esteemed amongst the number of their gods, for the important benefits bestowed on mankind ; particularly, on account of the abundance of corn, and medical assistance. Diodorus Siculus confirms this, by saying, that “ Isis invented “ many remedies, according to the Egyptians, was most skilful in the Science of Medicine, and therefore invented many “ ingenious things; on which account, being carried to immortality, takes a principal delight in practising the art.” It is “ also said, that “ Many persons were, by her, restored to health, after having been dec ared incurable by Physicians, “ from the difliculty of their complaints; that others, blind and lame, on application to this goddess Isis, were reinstated “ in the possession of their former good health.” We therefore find compositions of very ancient remedies, bearing the name of Isis, which critics suspect were only so named, that they might be in greater esteem, and public confidence.—See I-c Ckre. Historc de Medicine. Clemens Alc.\andrinus says, “ That all the knowledge of Egypt was written by Hermes, in forty-two books: the last six, relating to Medicine; in which the structure of the human body, generally—the eyes in particular; various instruments for “ the operations of surgery ; many diseases; and feminine complaints, were attentively described." But critics maintain, that these books on Medicine are spurious, and the produce of a later age, honoured with the title of Hermes, to become more popular; or that they were the works of a more modern Hermes, which is more probable, as Cicero de Afaf. Deor. observes, “ That there had been five different Hermes.” Whichsoever of these was the person, it is clear, that there were Physicians in Egypt in very early times; and that the Egyptiairs first reduced physic into an art, and exercised it as a profession: for, independant of what Strabo mentions about the custom of exposing the sick, proofs can be brought from Sacred History, that Joseph the Israelite, who lived four hundred years before JMoses, ordered the body of his father Jacob to be embalmed by his Physicians. “ Prxcepitque senis “ siiis medicis, ut aromatibus condirent patrem.”—Genes. Cap. L. Ver. 2. Hence it is decidedly evident, that it was usual to preserve the body with balsams ; and that they had a knowledge of me* dicines that resisted putridity. Many ancient Egyptian mummies have reached our time. Moses therefore cannot have been esteemed Hermes of the Egyptians, as Artapanus insinuates, on the authority of Eusebeius, since Hermes Trismegistus was called inventor of the art; and there were Physicians in practice four hundred years before Moses existed. The Sacred Codicil proves, that Moses himself possessed all the science and knowledge of Egypt, which is also seen by his description of a leprous person : he was certainly acquainted with Chemistry, if it can be credited, that he burnt the golden calf on pot-ashes, which secret was not revived till the time uf Stahl, who discovered it by hepar sulphurrs. But more ancient documents can be produced of the Egyptians having cultivated physic : it appears, on the testimonies of lleliodorus and Diogenes Laertius, that their priests were not only skilled in the practice of Medicine, but also had their knowledge described on monuments, to derive the greatest possible advantage from repeated experience.—See llorapoll. iJicroglpph. Lib. I. Cap. LXXXVTH. It is also clear, that their clergy was respectable and numerous, since a third part of Egypt was given to them for the sup- port and exercise of their religion. Diodorus Siculus evinces, that this dignity went by succession to posterity. Herodotus- clearly explains, that there were not only many physicians in Egypt, but also that each had a particular department: and says, “ The profession of pl)ysic is so diffused, that there are physicians for each peculiar disease; nor will they engage “ with many at the same time. Every thing abounds in IMediGine. Some undertake diseases of the eyes ; others attend to- “ complaints of the head; others again coniine their practice to the teeth ; some cure afi’ections of the bowels, whilst others- “ devote their time to the management of obscure complaints.” Mailletti, formerly French Consul in Egypt.—Vide, Lettres Intercssantcs Pour la Medicine, says, “ The same custom was “ then prevalent.”