( 151 J GLANDS OF THE EARS. ,Tli« ceruminous glands of the external meatus auditorius are situated under the internal membrane of this passage, and secrete a wax-like substance. GLANDS OF THE NECK. These are the jugular glands on the side of the neck, and the submaxillary glands, situated under the integuments of the lower jaw. GLANDS OF THE THORAX. THE EXTERNAL ARE' The mammary glands, situated under the adipose membrane, or fat in the breasts. THE INTERNAL ARE The bronchial glands in the bronchia of the lungs, and of great consequence in considering pulmonic diseases. The thymus gland in the anterior mediastinum. GLANDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Tlie gastric glands in the stomach, intestinal in the intestines, mysenteric mesentery. hepatic, which are also called acini bilosi, situated in the substance of the liver. The supra-renal glands, which are large, and situated at the upper part of the kidneys. GLANDS IN THE GENITAL PARTS OF MEN. The mucous glands of the urethra, situated under its internal membrane. The sebaceous of the prepuce, placed about the glans penis. The prostate gland, situated near the neck of the bladder. GLANDS IN THE GENITAL PARTS OF WOMEN. The odoriferous glands of the labia under the skin of the labia. The mucous glands of the urethra, under its internal mem- brane. GLANDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. The inguinal glands, under the skin at the groins, often the seat of venereal infection from vile astringent injections.* The subaxillary, situated also under the skin at the axilla, or arm-pit. GLANDS OF THE SKIN. The subcutaneous glands, or those situated under the skin, secreting an oleoginous substance. HYGROLOGY, or DOCTRINE of the FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. The liquid parts of our bodies are called humours: these are divided into those which are secreted ; and those which are not secreted. THE HUMOURS, NOT SECRETED, ARE 1. Chyle, a white fluid, like milk, coming from the food di- gested in the stomach,' and small intestines, is carried into the blood through the receptaculum chyli, and thoracic duct. 2. The blood, which is a red fluid, contained in the heart* arteries, and veins. Blood, drawn from the veins, is divided into crassamentuin, or cruor, which consists of red globules and serum, consisting of gelatinous fluid, a little calcarious earth, salt, and a great proportion of water. 3. The lymph, which is a gelatinous fluid, contained in the lymphatic vessels. 4. A nutritive juice, which is a very subtile jelly, contained in every part, and in all the humours of our body, except in the excrements. HUMOURS, OR FLUIDS SECRETED FROM THE BLOOD. IN THE CAVITY OF THE CRANIUM, AND IN THE SPINE. 1. The nervous liquor,which is said to be a most subtile fluid, secreted by the cortical and medullary substance of the brain, and spinal marrow, I’rom which it is conveyed into all the nerves of our body: but it has not yet been demonstrated, and therefore inadmissible. !■ The power of the nervous system, all over the moving powers and sensations of the body, I have called Nervotn Iii/liicncc,—See A'crious Diseases, 2. An aquous vapour, contained in the four ventricles "of the brain, and in the cavity of the spine, which is secreted by the exhalent arteries; a redundance of wnich causes hydro])o membranarum.—See Treatise un. the IVatry Head, Sj-e, IN THE CAVITY OF THE NOSTRILS. The mucus of the nose, which is secreted by the glands of the pituitary membrane. * See my Treatise, called Cogent Reasons—why astringent injections, caustic bougies, and violent salivations should be banished for ever from practice; with mild methods, and prescriptions for the treatment of every species of venereal infecuou, See. See.