( 103 ; PLATE LIII. Male Parts of Generation, FIGURE I. REPRESENTS THE BLADDER' OPEN ON THE ANTERIOR PART; THE PROSTRATE OLAND 15 DIVIDED ABOVE THE CORPORA CAVERNOSA; AND THE URETHRA IS CUT THROUGH ALL ITS LENGTH. Name, situation, ^c. a. The bladder, a membranaceous sac. I ■ ■ i e. 'f- I h. i, ; I. I ! n. n. I I I r, s. t. b, e. \f- g- Connection, SfC. With the umbilicus, os pubis, ijitestinum rectum, and genitals. Is rarely hollow. Two membranous canals perforate the membrane of the bladder. Termination, Use, SfC. Anterior in men, is situated to the intes* tinum rectum. Gf-es to the liver. Carry the urine from the kidneys into the bladder. b: Urachus, above the bladder. C. Aperture of the ureters, with a du- plicaturc of the internal membrane of the bladder. Part of the bladder drawn to the side. Caput Gallinaginis. There are two efferentia on each side. Foramina of the prostate ducts. Urethra, opened longitudinally with the lacunae. Prostate cut off at the beginning of the urethra. The beginning of the corpus caverno- sum with the erector muscle. The corpus cavernosum of the other side. Bulb of the urethra. One of the glands of Cowper. Its cxcretorp duct. Thespongious texture of the urethra. Fossa navicularis. Tiie corpora cavernosa laid open. The blood propelled into these bodies. Constitutes erection. Gians penis, is the anterior part. v. Part of the urethra where the incision is made. x. Spongious'texture of the glans penis. FIGURE II. SHEWS THE POSTERIOR PART OP THE BLADDER, AND INFERIOR PART OF THE PENIS. With the prostatic part of the urethra, near the neck of tlie bladder. Situated near the bulbous part of the urethra. , Which lacunaj being irritated, a greater quantity of mucus flows out. The prostato is acordifonn, glandular, cavernous body. Is gradually, produced from the bulb of the penis. From the blood remaining in the cellular texture. Situated near the prostate. They are of the mucous kind. Opens into the urethra. Through its whole length. The same as the orifice of the urethra. The blood propelled into these bodies. They carry the semen from the vesicul-ae seminalcs into the urethra subcoitu. To emit the mucus of the prostate into the urethra. J'he matter of gonorrhoea comes from these lacunae. Secreting the mucus to be mixed wish the semen. Forms the largest part of the penis. The glans is distended ; in this way erec- tion of the penis is caused. From it the corpus cavernosum. Separate a lubricating humour. The mucus lubricates the urethra. The urethra is very sensible. To discharge the semen and urine. The bladder, with the external mem- brane. Ureters, and their insertion. Insertion of the vasa dctcrentia with the visiculae seminales. Gyri of vcsiculre Ductus communis to the vesicul*, and vsisa deferentia. Prostate, without any involiicra, ad- heres under the neck of the bladder. Membranous part of ihe urethra is often if^ured by injections. Aceekrafbrts urince, cut off to shew the spongious texture of the bulb. Accclcratores above the bulb. Tendon of the acceleratores. Receives the urine from the ureters. c. Ve'sicuhe seminales. The semen is preserved in these vessels, and partly in the vesiculae. The sperma is detainer! in them. If the internal membrane of the urethra be inflamed, this ostium opens. The mucus is eliminated into the urethra about the caput gallinaginis. The semen is thrown from the urethra by the action of the muscles. Insertions of the acctleratores, terminating in the corpora cavernosa. p. Posterior part of the urethra. q. Beginning of the corpora cavernosa with the erectores. And retains it. d. Vasa deferentia. Tabes takes place from excessive proflu- vi urn of the semen. In them obstructions, &c. Upon this duct being obstructed, con- gestion of semen, tumors, &c. Tumors, and schirri of the prostate, inj‘ pedc the emission of urine. Contraction of the fibres, callosities, ca- runcula*, ulcers, fungi, takejrlace. , Incontinence of urine from the paralysis, or laxity of the muscles, impotence of the proper excretion, or only drop- ping guttatim. FIGURE III. Body of the testicle. Represents the testicle, with the membrane, called albuginea- Epididyjnis lies upon the tcsti^s. The spermatic chord, composed of artery, veins, nerves. Beginning of the vas deferens. Yas deteren^ Secretes the sperma, or semen, is coin- pressed by the cremaster. Receives the sperma from the testes. The spermatic artery, and nerves, de- scend thi’ough the abdominal ring. The vas deferens receives the semen from, the epididymis. Carries the sperma into the epididymis,, which passes the semen into the vas deferens.. To supply the testicle with blood. See. for the secretion of semen. And transmits it to the vesicula? semina- les, from wJicncc it is thrown through, the mellLra in coition.