( J THE ON ANIMAL ACTIONS, GENERALLY. THOSE ACTIONS ARE CALLED ANIMAL, WHICH ARB PERFORMED BY THE MIND, SUCH AS 1. The external senses. 2. internal senses, 3. ' voluntary actions of muscles, 4. voice and speech. I 5. Watching, and sleep. ♦ THE SOUL IS A BEING, I Which thinks and perceives within us. I The soul is incorporeal, and incomprehensible by man, except by its action and eftects; it originates with the embryo, and leaves the body at the moment of death, ' The seat of the soul is supposed to be in the medullary part of the brain; this is called the common sensoriuni. The soul, or mind, acts upon the body ; and the body upon the mind. 'l The instruments by which these actions are reciprocally per- j formed, are the nerves and brain. j THE NERVES ARE DIVIDED INTO THREE CLASSES; ! 1. Into nerves of motion, which go to voluntary muscles, jj 2. Into nerves of sense, which form the sensitive organs. ! 3. Into vital nerves, which go to the heart and vessels, ' The mind acts upon voluntary muscles, through the nerves of I motion.^ I The body acts upon the mind, through the nerves of the senses. I The mind has no power over the vital nerves, nor those going j to the viscera, which the ganglions of the vital nerves seem to be the cause’of; but violent affections of the mind, produce action even beyond them. j OF SENSATION, GENERALLY. 1 -Sensation is the perception of any thing which affects the i nerves of sense. I No part of our body has feeling, except the pulp of nerves. 1 The parts of our body, which are least sensible, are ; those which have fewest nerves—as the epidermis, I bones, cartilagines, periosteum, tendinous aponeu- roses, the cortical part of the brain, the pleura, periosteum, adipose membrane; but these, when dis- eased, are often sensible of acute pain. I \ The parts, having a blunt sensation, are those which possess few nerves—as the marrow of bones, glands, vessels, the most vascular part of the viscera—as the liver; ; • and, in some parts, the cellular membrane. The parts, posessing great sensibility, are those which have many nerves—as the skin, stomach, intestines, , surface of the lungs, bladder, uterus, urethra, kidneys, and all the muscles. The mind can perceive only one sensation at the same time; hence, a greater one obscures a smaller; on this ac- count, also, with two eyes, we see but «ne object; and, with both ears, we distinguish one sound. The mind, though situated in the brain, is acted upon by every nerve. But how the mind perceives, by the assistance of nerves, is unknown; nor is it demonstrated, whether there be a subtile nervous fluid, generated by the atmospheric air, or in the brain, contained in the nerves, and flowing upwards, for the perception of the senses; and downwards, for muscular motion. SENSATIONS Are divided into pleasant, unpleasant, and indifferent. THE USES', ARE 1. By the means of sensations—the internal and externa! senses are carried on. 2. The passions of the mind are excited. 3. Painful sensations convey to the mind a sense of danger, and instigate it to seek relief. OF THE EXTERNAL SENSES, GENERALLY. THERE ARE FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES; NAMELY, . 1. The touch. 2. taste. 3. smell. 4. sight. hearing. THE TOUCH Is a sensation the mind perceives, if any body touch the skin, particularly the ends of the fingers. The primary organ of touch, therefore, is constituted by the nervous papillai of the skin, at the tips of the fingers. The skin possesses nerves, and the epidermis, by covering it, moderates the sensations, and defends the papillae from becoming dry by the atmospheric air, the nails inform the papillce of an approaching object. T t