( 1^7 ) leaves an external part, and goes to the ^ain, orlungs, or diaphragm, winch occasions great danger. 6. ld'u>pathic, which arise from a cause situated in that part where the disease is seen. 7. Si/mpathctic, or consensual, the cause of which resides in a different part from that where the disease is ob- served as amaurosis from saburra of the stomach, the tooth ach from pregnancy, and vomiting from a violence done to the head, or from various other causes. All these sympathetic symptoms arise from the sympathy of the nerves. See par vagum ^c. 8. Symptomatic, or significant of another disease, almost every disease may be termed symptomatic of the original affection. It is seated in a part, or is uni- versal ; but the sensations felt are conveyed to the common sensorium, or brain, by the communication, and sympathy of the nervous system. 9. Universal, which occupy all the surface of the body, as anasarca pneumatosis universal; burning, if any one should fall into a scalding liquid. 10. Partial, which occupy one part entirely, as mdema of the legs, emphysema of the head, erysipelas of the face. 11. Topical, or local, which arc seated in one place only, on a part as a wound, encysted tumour, many dis- eases are found local with respect to situation, which are universal as to their causes, as cancer, schrophula. 12. Diseases of parts, which are proper to each part, thus an anatomical division of diseases is formed, as dis- eases of the head, neck, thorax, abdomen, joints, skin, eyes, teeth, bones, glands, &'C. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES IN THEIR COURSE. Diseases are distinguished by the course they take into, 1'. Short, which are speedily cured as light colds, inflam- matory tumours, wounds and fractures. 2. Long, which are longer of cure, as all chronic diseases, palsy, gout, ulcers, heroia:, prolapsus. 3. Chronic, which continue for years, as a cancer, old ulcers, spina ventosa, caries. 4. Continual, which run on in the same manner from be- ginning to end. 5. Remittent, which remit at times, or exacerbate; but do not entirely cease. 6. Intermitted, or periodic, which come on at certain times and go off again, as ebris intermittens, periodic opthalmia, which is troublesome every second or third day, and cured by bark, acid of vitriol, or so- lutions of white vitriol, in bitter infusions. Periodic diseases of a particular cast, are called typic, but those which do not take on a particular type are called shifting, or wandering. •The time between the attacks is called apyrexia, but that time in which the fit continues is called paroxysm, or pyrexia. 7. Precedent, which precede another disease, thus inflam- mation is a preceding disease to suppuration, gangrene, or scirrhus; an abcess, fissure, disease of a bone precedes caries. 8. Accessory, which injuriously adds fresh evils to the exist- ing disease, as hooping cough, superadded to measles, or an inflammation of the lungs to the asthmatic, gangrene to a wound, contusion to a schirrous breast. 9. Succeeding, which succeed a disease, thus boils frequently follow the small-pox, and carious abscesses succeed Icucoinata of the cornea. THE DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES AS TO THEIR DISPOSITION. Diseases with respect to their disposition arfe distin'^ guished into, 1. Great, which in their course produce great and im- portant symptoms, as violent fevers, hernia incarce- rated, mischief done to a nerve. 2. Small, which produces slight symptoms, and such as arc free from danger, as slight catarrh, a small wound, or simple ulcer. 3. Mild, which have neither important symptoms, nor dan- ger attending, as some nervous affections that are more troublesome than dangerous, an encysted tu- mour, schirrus, or polypus, when not virulent. 4. Malignant, which has either some apparent or secret danger, as painful schirrus, bite of a mad dog, or empoisoned viper. , 5. Refractory, which baffle the effects of the most expe- rienced remedies, or are rather increased by endea- vouring to cure improperly, as cancer, deep seated caries. 6. Contagious, which go from one to another by contact,, as the yellow fever, putrid sore throat, measles, small- , pox, or the venereal disease, pestilential bubo, dec. 7- P\.egular, which have their usual symptoms. 8. Irregular, or anomalous, which have not their usual symptoms, and sometimes are puzzling to our ex- perience, in naming. 9. Simple, which happen alone in any part, as a simple frac- ture, or luxation. 10. Compound, which happen twice or more in one place, as a double, or treble fracture, in a single bone. 11. Complicated, which take place with another disease in the same part, as a luxation complicated with a wound, caries, or fracture of thejftint. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES AS TO THRIR TER- MINATION. > With regard to the terminations diseases, usually have, they are divided into, 1. Curable, which can be cured by art or nature. 2. Incurable, which cannot hitherto be cured, by art nor natural efforts. 3. Mortal, which terminate in death, as aneurism of the aorta. .Mortal