I ( *58 ) other fine particles, which the lymphatics carrying strictly, coagulable lymph refuse. Each part to its peculiar office. The more tenacious particles arc re- ceived by the lymphatic absorbents; but they cannot absorb what they do not contain: the very fine saline fluids, and others of a contrary nature, to coa- gulable lymph, are carried to the sanguiferous veins ; and from the brain in particular, without the aid of lymphatic absorbents; for no lymphatic absorbents have yet been found in the human brain. CONTRACTILITY OF THE CELLULAR STRUCTURE. The cellular substance has a contractile power, different from that of irritability, which disposes the cellular fibre to shorten itself gradually, after it has been length- ened. This power, e.\cited by cold, renders the skin rigid, raises the hair, draws up the scrotum, and after gestation, restores the skin of the abdomen and uterus to their former size; and to the breasts, after suckling, their agreeable form and beauty. THE USES or THE ADEPS, OR FAT. I. To facilitate the action of muscles in all parts; to lessen their attrition ; and prevent rigidity. II. It fills up the interstices of muscles, or intermediate spaces betwixt the muscles and the cavities, about many of the viscera, in such a mode, that it readily yields to their motions, and yet supports them, when at rest. III. It principally constitutes the weight of the body; conducts and defends the vessels. IV. It gives an uniform e.xtension to the skin; and serves as a cushion to ease the weight of the body, rendering the whole of an agreeable comely shape. V. Probably, by occasionally mixing with the fluids, it abates their acrimony. VJ. It has a principal share-in forming the bile; and by transuding through the cartilaginous incrustations of bones, it mixes with the articular liquid, and by re- absorbtion, it lubricates their fibres. VII. By exhaling through the pores of the skin, it resists the inclement drying quality of the air. VIII. By exhaling, in a living person, from the mesentery, mesocolon, omentum, round the kidneys; it lubri- cates the surface of the viscera, with an olcous emollient vapour; and by interposing itself between their integuments, prevents their concretion. INCREASED BY REST, DIMINISHED BY HEMORRHAGE, &C. The adeps, or fat, is deposited in the cells of the cellular structure by rest of body and mind, and a diminished force of circulation. In too great a quantity, it proves injurious, by compressing the veins; and, by causing too great a resistance to the heart, it makes persons short breathed, and liable to apoplexy. When lymph, or serum be deposited in the cells, instead of adeps, by the blood having be.en broken down, either by hemorrhages, or other debilitating causes, anasar- cous dropsy is the conseqviepce; pallidity, and a di- minution of the red sanguineous particles, which are amply demonstrated in my Treatise, on Dropsies. ON THE NATURE AND POWERS OF AN ANIMATE BODY. Since man is not only a mechanico-hydraulic machine, but also animated : he exercises not only physical powers, common to every mechanico-hydraulic machine, but likewise animal powers, which are peculiar to living animals only. THE PHYSICAL POWERS ARE 1. The vis gravitatis, by which bodies descend to the ground in a perpendicular line. 2. Vis inertioe, by which still bodies resist motion. 3. Vis elasticitatis, by which extended bodies voluntarily return to their former shape, on removing the ex- tending cause. 4. Vis matrix, by which bodies are moved by a motion applied, until the power be no longer able to cause motion. 5. Vis attractionis, or affinitatis, by which two bodies are mutually brought nearer each other. 6. Vis repulsionis, by which two bodies mutually repel each other. THE ANIMAL POWERS ARE , 1. Vis irribilitatis, by which the fibres of our bodies contract, on the application of a stimulus. 2. Vis sensitivitatis, by which certain fibres, irritated by a stimulus, cause sensation. ^ 3. Vis animee, by which a particular part moves according to volition, or will. 4. Vis nervea, by which some change is made in a part, even contrary to volitionas erection of the penis, of blushing, &c. 5. Vis consolidans, by which wounded parts are made firm. 6. VisJ'ermetitativa, by which the animal humors arc sup- posed to be changed in their (luahties, through the intestine motion, &c. An assemblage of all these powers, which, an animated body exercises, is called the nature or functions of tlie human body. ON THE ACTIONS OF AN ANI.MATED BODY. An animated body, by means of its own powers, which it has received from the CREATOR, and throu'ffi I * I ' - II