HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixxvi Some employ tlieiTKcU-es in decrying and spcJiking disrespectfully of others in the profession; making a vain ostentatious shew of their learning. It is much better to discover things useful to society. What has just been advanced, conveys a perfect idea of his sentiments on medicine. How striking and unprejudiced are his opinions? how exactly true have they been found in all ages? Considering the age in which he lived, he had little superstition. It is true, in his book of dreams, which have been attributed by some to Hcrodicus, he talks of sacrifices and ceremonies, which ought to be performed to some certain Deities, according to the nature of the dreams which are dreamt; but in another part, after ridiculing the boasters, magicians, and other impostors, he says, it is the Deity that purifies us, and washes us from our greatest sins and most enormous crimes. It is the divinity that protects us; and it is only in the temples, which are the habitations of the Gods, that we ought to seek, to purify ourselves of what is unclean. He rallies the women of his time, who were troubled with obstructions, for offering to Diana rich garments, (xj He does not hesitate to say, that the priests who advised these weak i women thus, abused them wretchedly. His sentiments of the manners of a physician, are worthy of attention. He says, he ouglit to dress decently, to be grave ill his manners, moderate in his actions, chaste and modest in the conversation he is obliged to have with women; no idler, ready to answer every body with candour, sober, patient, always ready to do his duty, without disturbing himself; and he thouglit it requisite, for the credit of the physician, that he should have a healthful look, and a good complexion; for men are apt to suspect him who has not his own health, to be scarce instrumental to procure another's. It has been said, that he relieved others of the plague, so well described by Thucydides, an eye witness, and after him , Lucretius. Fires in the cities were the common cure for the plague, amongst the Greeks. He was sent for to Perdicuas, kina of Macedonia, who was thought to be ill of a consumption; but Hippocrates, it is said, discovered his disease to be the love of Phyla, his father’s mistre.ss. Artaxerxes offered him vast sums, and entire cities, to induce Hippocrates to come into his country, and remove a pestilence, that made terrible devastation in his armies and provinces; and ordered him an hundred talent? as an advance. To the governor of the Hellespont, he returned this answer. Write to your master, that I am rich enough, and that I cannot with honour accept his offers, nor go and cure Barbarians, who are enemies to the Greeks, (y) What a distinguishing mark is this of the greatness of his character? When Alcibiades was sent by the Athenians into Sicily, Hippocrates sent his son Thessalus to accompany him and his arm^', as physician, and defrayed the expence of his voyage. The ill success of that expejlition did not prevent the Athenians from presenting Thessalus with a crown of gold, at his return, after three years service. No citizen gave stronger proofs of patriotism than Hippocrates; for, { it is said, that when the Athenians made preparations to carry their arms into the island of Coos, he immediately went to implore the protection of the Thessalians, and the neighbouring states; and sent his son Thessalus to Athens, to endeavour to allay the tempest that threatened his country. Both father and son met with success;^ for Macedonia, Thessaly, and Pelo- ponessus, were all up in arms, and ready to march to the assistance of Coos; and the Athenians, out of fear or gratitude, hearkened to the remonstrances of Thessalus. But what he is justly entitled to admiration for, by practitioners in medicine, is, his generous acknowledgment of his mistakes, and ill success. A remarkable instance we find recorded in the fifth book of his Epidemics. For being called to Antonomus, who had received a wound in his head, he unfortunately mistook the wound for one of the sutures, and neglected trepanning him. Some days after, the patient being seized with a great pain in his side, and convulsions in both arms, he was sensible of his error, and tried the trepan, but in vain; for it being the fifteenth day, and the summer season, the patient died the next day. This candid declaration of his ignorance, being the cause of a patient’s death, must be admired in all ages; but how few follow his steps in this particular, how eager we are for pubWshing our success, and how silently we draw a veil over our, blunders. This great author desired of the gods, in recompence of his labour, neither riches, nor pleasure; but a long life in perfect health, success in his art, and to render himself famous to posterity. This desire of his, is declared in liis oath ; and it was accomplished in its full extent; for he lived one hundred and nine years, in soundness of mind and body. He succeeded so well in his art, that he has ever been regarded as the founder of it. He is to physicians, what Jlomer and® Demosthenes are to poets and orators. He received, during his life, such great honours, as were never bestowed to any^ mortah {i) Lib. de his qusE. ad virginluro .•pectaut. (y) Epistol. Hippo. Coi.