HISTORY OF MEDICINE. XXXVII that means excited sweat. They then drank a potion made with the rods of white iiellcbore, of the Icnn;tli of three lin^cr^. one dram of trefoil juice, of lasserpitiun the weight of two beans, with pure wine. If the patients were inclined to vomit, he vomited them; if not, a vomit was not given till the head w’as purged. In all paroxysms, or sharp fits of intermittent diseases, we must take away meat; (ej for to give it then w'ould be hurt- ful. The same abstinence is to be observed, in fits that are heightened in tlicir periodical returns. What relates to the paro.vysms and constitutions of diseases themselves, or the alteration of the return of the fits, whether they return every day, or after some longer interval of time. The same are likewise seen by other succeeding etfects. For instance, in a pleurisy, if the corrupted matter, avoided by spitting, appear presently at the beginning, it declares the disease will be but short; but if it be longer before it appear, it declares a long continuance of it. The urine likewise, the excrements of the belly, and sweats when they appear, declare whether the disease will prove easy, or difficult; short, or long. HECTIC FEVER. IN his Treatise Do Internis Affectionibus, he describes the hectic fever in the following manner. A gentle rigor begins to sieze the patient, the whole breast is pained as far as the back; sometimes, also, the patient is afflicted with an acute cough, and a discharge of a large quantity of thin and saline saliva. These symptoms happen in the beginning of the disease; but in the progress of the disorder, the whole body, except the legs, is extenuated ; for these, and the feet become tumid, the nails are incurvated, but the arms become weak and slender. The fmecs are covered with a kind of down; the patient breathes as though he whistled through a reed; and is, through the whole of the disease, afflicted with a violent thirst, and great weakness. When the patient comes to be in this condition, he generally dies in a year's ti.ne; notwithstanding all possible care and means, however taken, to restore and recover him. In the same book, he re- commends asses milk boiled, (f) in order to purify it, to be taken: the patient is also to drink unboiled cows milk, mixed with a third part of hydromel, and some origanum, for forty five days. In the thirty-fourth book of his Treatise De Internis Affectionibus, he orders, that if the patient be strong, he should, for thirty days, be employed in cutting wood, use sufficient exercise, (g) or walk by day, setting apart the night for repose and rest. •THE CAUSES OF HEALTH AND DISEASES. AMONGST the causes of health and disease, the most extensive and general are, according to Hippo'erates, the air and aliments; (h) both which he examines with the utmost attention : he has written several books on aliment, and distinguishes, with great judgment, the good from the bad; w'hat is proper, and what improper, to persons in different ranks of life. This knowledge he particularly excelled in; as his whole practice was much governed by regulating the diet. Ho paid great attention, to the difference of the seasons, and climates; the irregularity of the winds, and seasons; the rising and setting of the stars; (i) the times influenced by certain constellations, such as the dog star Arcturus, and the Pleiades. He also considered the solstices., and equinoxes; (k) because he believed, that all these produced great changes in diseases; but he does not explain how these changes are produced. When any of the humors are separated from the rest, it neces- sarily follows, that the part from which it came, must be disordered; (1) and the part to which it flows in too large a quan- tity, must endure pain and torment, (m) If, says he, a disease must remain in the part, where it began, when a noble part suffers, the whole body must be proportionably afflicted. 'I'he differences of diseases - depend on the following things. Aliments, the air, heat, the blood, the phlegm, the bile, and all the humors: (n) as also on the flesh, the fat, the veins, the arteries, the nerves, the muscles, the membranes, the bones, the brain, the spinal marrow, the mouth, the tongue, the throat, the oesophagus, the stomach, the intestines, the diaphragm, the belly, the liver, the spleen, the kidneys, the bladder, the matrix, the skin. 1 lie (e) Natur. Human. XVIII. 30, 31. Humor. III. 82. Loc. iu horn. XXXIX. Afiection. XLII. 3. Viet, in Acut. X. 2. Aph. 2. Sect. t. Hi RecommefldA asses milk, (g) E.\ercise (AJ His attention to air and diet, (t) Consults the Stars. (k) Equinoxei, (IJ De natur, horn. (m) Bemovalof the humors a cause of disease, (h) Lib, De, AJimento.