( 8 ) PLATE VI. Of various Hones, Figure I. Craniu7n, &c. • 1, Os frontis, 2. The upper foramen orbitalc, where passes through the first branch of the fifth pair of nerves, ♦vith a small artery; therefore the surgeons should take care, particularly in infants, not to make incisions in those places. 3. Underneath is the frontal sinus, where the trepan can- not be performed without danger. 4. Os bregmatis, or parietal bone. 5. Os temporis, or temporal bone. 6. The squammous part. 7. The petrous part, whence. 8. The meatus .luditorious. 9-The mastoid, or mammillary process, 10. The.styloid process. 11. Os occipitis. 12. Os mala;. 13. Os sphasnoidale, basilare, multiformc, &c. 14. Os maxillffi superioris, or superior maxillary bone ; it consists of thirteen bones and sixteen teeth, if the number be complete. Of these thirteen bones, six are pairs: whereof, the lacryinal, ii. the nasal, iii, the jugal, iv. the maxillary, V. the lower spongeous, vi. the palatinuin, and the last odd one is called iwner. They are joined together by a plain juncture, called har- »nonia. 15. Os lacrymale, or unguis ; there is to be observed in it a furrow', for the conformation of the nasal duct; which is of use to consider in the chirurgical operation for the fistula lacrymalis. 16. The pterigoid processes. 17. The coronal suture. 18. The squammous suture. 19* The lambdoidal suture. The use of those sutures are : i. The better to affix the dura mater, and to sustain it firmly within the cranium, ii. That some nervous fibrillm and vessels may pass through tlicm. iii. To let out the va- pours through the skull, iv. As some assert, and that the virtues of fomentations, poultices, and other remedies may penetrate, v. That in accidents, the fissures may not extend too far, but m.ay stop in the sutures, vi. In child-birth it is of very great advantage, that the cranivim be not made of one single bone, but that there are many in the tender-boned foetus, to slide one over the other, and bear the compression; it would otherwise cause more difficult labours. Figure II. The inferior maxilla. 1. The coronal processus, to which the adducent muscles are affixed. 2. The condyloid processes, by which the maxilla is arti- culated with the cranium, or head. \ a. The teeth. Dentes. In both maxillae are cavities in which thirty-two teeth are £.\ed. The teeth are divided in three classes. b. Incisores are the four anterior ones. c. Two canini are ‘nearly conical; the two upper canini Lave the name of eye-teeth. d. The grinders, or dentes molares, they are blunt, large, ; and uneven. I e. Dentes sapientice are the hindermost, and of the same j shape as the molares. Figure III. A longitudinal section of the cranium. 1, The frontal bone. 2. The os bregmatis with theim^Bi pressions of the vessels belonging to the dura mater. 3. TheJ! os occipitis. 4. The sella turcica, or equina, is a cavity inj the sphenoid bone, and in the inside of the cranium. 5. TheJ process of the sphenoidal bone, making apart of the septum^ narium. '6, The process of the ethmoidal bone. 7. The osj I vomer. 8. Crista galH, is a third part of the os ethmoides,^ j very like a cock’s-comb. 9- The sinus of the os frontis. 10^ i Various openings for the nerves. - Jn] Figure IV. H The cranium with the superior maxilla lying on the vertex. | A. The 05 occipitis. B. The hole through which the niivj dulla oblongata changes into the medullary spine. C, The" inferior part of the os temporis. D. The os basilare. E. The os palati. I'\ Os jugale, a, a. The processes of the og occipitis which articulate with the vertebra, b. Sinus, c. The mammillary processes, d. The foramen for the lateral sinus of the dura mater, e. The beginning of the mcatui auditorius. The sinus of the os temporis for the articu- lation of the inferior maxilla, g. The styloid process, h. Processus jugalis of the os temporum. i. The foramen through which the nerve of the tenth pair comes out. k, k. Processus aliformes of the os basilare. 1. The vomer proceeds up to the septum narium, or the eleventh bone of the superior maxilla. A foramen for the egress of vessels, n. The teeth. 0. A foramen for the passage of another branch of the fifth pair of nerves toward the inferior parts, p. The fo- ramen through which the carotid artery enters the brain. Figure V. The bones of the carpus and metacarpus, or wrist and hand. The carpus consists of eight small bones of various shapes. They are placed in the following series, beginning from the side next the thumb, outwards: Os naviculare, lunare, cu- , neiforme, orbiculare; then, in the row underneath, from the thumb—trapezium, trapezoidcs, magnum, unciforme. The metacarpal bones, one for each finger, except the thumb, extending from the eight small bones to the knuckles; and the phalanges, or joints of the fingers, comprehend the bonos of the hand and wrist. Figure VI. The bones of the tarsus and metatarsus, or instep and foot. The tarsus consists of seven bones.—The 'os Calais, astra- galus, cuboides, naviculare, and three cuneiformia.—The j metatarsus has five bones. The toes have fourteen bones; i they have also sesamoid bones, as in the fingers. i The nails are fixed on the extremities of the fingers and toes, in which is the lunula, which is the whiter part adjoining the cutis, or skin.