Ixvii HISTORY OF MEDICINE, I ON FRACTURES. IN fractures, Hippocrates, used first extension, and having brought the broken parts of the hone in apposition, he replaced them. He then applied proper bandages, according to the nature of the fracture, compresses, and splints. For the union of the broken cubitus, he allowed thirty days; and in the first ten, he recommended spare diet, and at that time, he removed the bandages, and rolled the member up again ; ten days after, he repeated this, and used no plaisters; but his compresses were slightly covered with a cerate. We ought to despise those whimsical and curious bandages, which please the eye of the spectator, without answering the intention for which they are applied ; for, they aix* not only troublesome and idle, but frequently hurtful, and prejudicial. It is obvious, the sick, seek rather for relief from their pains, than a conceited, and ! superfluous elegance, in their dressings. In the book De Officina Medici, are given many excellent rules, for the application I of bandages. A fracture, with laceration of the tendons, or nerves; if the bones be not reduced to their natural situation, the surgeon is thought ignorant; (d) and if they be, the reduction of fractures, with lacerated nevers, or tendons tends more to the destruction, than to the recovery of the patient. Hence, Hippocrates, at the latter end of his treatise on fractures, I in which, he recounts the many bad consequences of fractures, and luxations, (c) lays it down as a maxim, that more is to j be dreaded from the contusion, than the fracture itself. For those disorders arc slighter, in which the bones are fractured, ! than those in which they are not fractured, if at the same time considerable veins, and nerves are contused. For these dis- orders endanger the patient’s life, more than the former, if they be accompanied with a continual fever. Flesh of a livid colour, in diseased bones, is very unfavourable, (f) The manner in which the bones are united, in fractures, he delivers in the following manner: Since the bones cannot, in consequence of their natural dryness, grow together like flesh, a callus, growing about the lips of the fracture, becomes the means of their union. But the origin of the callus, is the superfluous nourishment of the fractured bone; and when the I patient does not use a proper regimen, or is plethoric, this superfluous nourishment is too copious, and, discharging itself, renders all the bandages wet, just as when blood is discharged. Hence he seems to insinuate, that the callus is not formed of what is properly called the substance of the bone; but that it is only a species of gluten, which, interposing itself between ! the extremities of the fractured bone, makes them cohere; for, as glue is to unite pieces of wood, such is a callus to fractured bones. Hippocrates forbids the extension of the member, for the reduction of a fracture, if the injured parts wxre in a state of inflammation, or tension, (g) I The following directions for splints, are inserted in his book De Officina Medici. Let the length of the splints, breadth, ‘ thickness, and number, be thus: For length, let them be equal to the ligature; their breadth must be three or four inches; their thickness must be three or four fold, double their number, that they may circumscribe the part, and there must not be more I or less. The ancients, amongst whom Hippocrates was the chief, made these splints of the back of the woody shrub, fennel i gigant, or else of the boughs of it, divided in the middle ; whence they came to be called ferula?. In the foregoing book, he I inserts what ought to be the good qualities of the ferulses. It is necessary that they be smooth and equal, and crooked about j the ends, and on both sides of the ligature a little shorter; but thickest of all where the fracture is situated. Though the I bone of the thigh is extended by force, it cannot be held so by any hands; but when the first extension slackens, it will rim i out of its place again ; (h) for, in this part, the thick and strong flesh resists binding; (i) and bandage can scarce keep the I broken bone, when reduced in its proper place. j Whilst the part is held stretched forth, by assistants, a roller is to be passed three times round, on the part afflicted, toward j the right hand; (k) then bring it upwards until it comes to a good part of the limb, with four or five more windings about , it. (1) The second roller, which must be twice as long as the former, is to be rolled round the limb, the contrary way to I the former; for the first is rolled towards the right hand, upwards, but this must be towards the left hand downwards: ' namely, once about the fracture, then again three or four times, or oftener, below the fracture, unto some convenient part of ; the' (c) Whimsical bandages useless to the patient, who onty wishes for ease, (d) De fractnris. j («) Dc fractuiis. Aph. 5s Sect. 7,. (g) Not to be reduced when infiaiufd. (h) Bones of the thighs difficultly secured. (i) De fractuiis. j (fc) Hippocrates’s directions for applying the bandages. I I i (i) De fract. fext. 23,27,32, 41,