C 21 ) PLATE XIX. The anterior Arteries of the Body. «. The heart. b. The aorta', arises from the left ventricle of the heart, gives off the coronary arteries, and makes the great arch to- wards the dorsal vertebrae, then descends through the open- ing of the diaphragm into the abdomen, in which it proceeds near tlie left side of the back to the last vertebras of the loins, and there is divided into the two iliac arteries. c. The coyonary arteries; arise from the aorta under its arch, and are distributed into the substance of the heart and auricles. d. The great arch\ gives off three branches; 1. The ar- teria ianominata. 2. The left carotid. 3. The left subclavian. c. The ' arteria innominata; arises from the arch of the aorta, is immediately divided into two branches, g. The right subclavian ; and h. the right carotid. The carotid arteries ascend in a straight line to the larynx, and arc there divided into the external and internal. The external carotid ascends by the car to the temples, and ramifies into eight branches: 1. The superior thyroid; 2. the sublingual; 3. the inferior maxillary; and, 4. the exter- nal maxillary; 5. the pharyngeal artery; 6. the occipital; 7. the external auditory’; and, 8. the temporal, from which arises the frontal. The internal carotid in the cavity of the cranium gives off the cerebral branches. i. The left subclavian. The subclavian arteries, near the clavicles, are inflected outward, like an arch into the submaxillary cavity, where -they are called the submaxillary arteries. The subclavian artery gives off four branches. 1. The internal mammary •, it descen'ds near the sternum, and sends forth, 1. the arteria mediastina; 2. the thymic a. 3. The pericardic, from which arises the superior diaphrag- matic; and, 4. the inferior trachaeal. 2. The cervical; goes to the muscles of the neck. 3. The vertebral; ascends through the seven foramina of the transverse processes of the neck, and enters the cavity of the cranium. 4. The superior intercostals', run on the inferior margin of the ribs to the sternum. h. The axillary artery gwes off four branches : 1. The ex- ternal mammary ; 2. the inferior thoracic; 3. the external and internal scapulary ; 4. the humeral—then l. The brachial artery ; runs under the arm to the bend of the elbow, and is divided into three branches. m. 1. T4e ctti/ta/arfcry, runs down near the elbow, arrives at the palm of the hand, and there forms the palmary arch. n. 2. The radial artery, descends along the radius into the palm of the hand. 3. The interosseal artery, external and Internal, are distri- ; buted to the muscles of the fore-arm. 0. The palmary arch; from this arise the four digital arteries. ( THE BRANCHES OF THE AORTA DBSCENDENS. The aorta from the arch to the diaphragm gives off four branches; 1. the bronchial artery; 2. the o?sophageal; 3. the eight pairs of intercostals ; 4. the inferior diaphragmatic arteries. a. The bronchial artery ; going to the bronchia' and pulmo- nary vesicles. The a:sophigeal artery goes to the inferior p,i.rt of the oeso- phagus. The inferior intercostals go to the sternum along the inferierr margin of the eight lower ribs. The inferior diaphragmatic arteries supply the diaphrairm. The aorta sends off eight branches in the abdomen. b. 1. Thecoeliac, which is solitary; under the stomach it is divided into three branches; 1. the arteria stomachica ; 2. thx splenic a. 3. 'The hepatic. c. 2. The superior 7nesaraic-, tends towards the'jejunum, coecum, and right colon. d. 3. The renal arteries, which go to the kidneys. e. 4. The spermatic arteries ; passing to the testicles in men; but in women, to the ovaria. f. 5. The inferior mesenteric-, it goes to the left colon, and to the rectum. g-.' 6. The lumbal arteries; which go to the muscles of the loins and abdomen. h. 7. The sacral-, pass near the os sacrum. i. 8. Theiliacs-, near the last vertebrse of the loins the aorta is divided into two. The iliac arteries arc divided into external and internal. The internal iliac artery is called the hypogastric-, in the foetus it divides itself into six, in the adult into five branches, which are divided vVithin and without the pelvis. k. The external iliac -, it comes out of the cavity of the pelvis under Poupart’s ligament, and runs backward into the internal part of the thigh to the subpoplitcal cavity. /.In this course it is called the crura or femoral artery^ and under the ham the subpoplitcal. m. The external iliac artery-, at its exit from the pelvis it gives off the epigastric, which ascends under the rectus mus- cle to the sternum. n. The crural artery, gives many muscular branches to the muscles of the thigh and lateral arteries, which anastomose with the recurrent genual arteries from the tibial. o. The popliteal artery, is divided into the a?i^er/‘(/r and poste- rior tibial, and the peroneal. p. The anterior tibial artery perforates the interosseal liga- ment, descends to the back of the foot, (perforates it near the great toe) and runs into the sole of the foot. q. The posterior tibial descends in the internal and posterior part of the tibia. » r. The peroneal, or f hilar artery, descends behind the fibula, perforates the inferior part of the interosseal liga- ment, and runs on the back of the foot. The plantary arch is formed by the anterior and posterior tibial, and the peroneal, in the sole of the foot. The digital arteries (of the foot) arise from the plaotary arch.