HISTORY OF MEDICINE cxu censure the practise of others, either by speech, inuendo, or writing, without (he justest and honourable mulives. It is more' | generous to conceal than expose errors. Every artist endeavours the best for the aftlicted, and whoever insinuates deficiency ) of science in another, breaks those bonds of harmony, that should ever pervade medicine. It is a very mean reputation, that is built on the ruin of others; it is better that fame should follow generosity, humanity, deep professional skill, whick most may acquire by great industry and experience, for as Cicero Says, Nil sine labore. It is supposed, that you have fulfilled all the intentions of study. You comprehend the composition of medicines, chemistry, pharmacy, anatomy, physiology, surgery, midwifery, the diseases of women and children, and medical practice. You are now g(>ing to launch into the treatment of complaints to the utmost of your own skill, and you all wish to get some share of practice and professional confidence. The requisites for a general practitioner have been only considered ; in the f elevated rank of a physician, the advantages of an university education lead the mind into all the higher branches of a com- plete erudition, in geometry, logic, rhetoric, mathematics, and in the various philosophical sciences, united to the antecedent knowledge in medicine. These, the university statutes of alma water, Oxford, and the university of Cambridge, prescribe and elucidate. Pre-eminence in the Royal College of physicians, in London, flow from these sources, where there has ap« pcared a succession of the most learned in Europe, not only in medicine, but in various branches of profound literature. In the entrance into active medical life, and attempting the acquisition of practice, little can be expected, at first, without great professional and personal talents, and the interest of some senior practitioner, family, or other connections. The com- mencement cannot be better employed, than by relieving the indigent, daily, at certain fixed hours, gratuitously ; thus, if suc- cess attend your humane endeavours, will be laid the foundation, of a spreading permanent reputation, for skill and judgment; thus will the mind be generously employed in the feeling acts of benevolence and Christian charity, and medicine thus exercised, not only improves from experience, but gives confidence to thq reflecting and sensible artists, constantly employed in render- ing the art, what it ought to be, areal blessing to society. The rewards of such conduct are certain. A physician may pre- scribe, a surgeon may bleed, dress wounds, and relieve other accidents; and all these kind offices should be conducted with great tenderness,and feeling, for the distressed sufferers. Favours conferred in a coarse manner, are scarcely received or considered as favours; but if with great solicitude, and a pious concern for human misery, they make lasting and favourable impressions on the human mind. The poorest should be treated with as much aftability and politeness, as the richest and most elevated. Indeed, the poor frequently w-ant all the necessaries and comforts of life ; add sickness to their poverty, and it is impossible to conceive more absolute wretchedness. Medicine, that' divinest of arts ! should expand its cheering rays, in k alleviating such complicated afflictions, and to speak the truth, there is no profession, that has so many opportunities of ex- I ercising the tender emotions of humanity and sensibility ; nor is there any that practises Christian charity, to a greater extent through all ranks and conditions of life. Never desert a patient in the most extreme danger ; but endeavour to administer relief as long as life may remain. In practice, it is of great consequence to study and well comprehend human character, with all its singularities and di- versities, for a knowledge of physiognomy is half the knowlcdgc’of the art; to possess a very tranquil, accommodating, chear- ful temper, and to never suffer wrath to preside over reason. There are a variety of provoking circumstances, daily arising in extensive practice, from ignorance, fears, and sometimes impertinence, which a physician should parry with smoothness, and overlook, if be should wish to be happy within himself. It is too great a sacrifice, for a nran of science, strict honour, and integrity, to disturb his tranquillity at the versatility, follies, or vices of the world ; for he, who from inexperience, expects j more steadiness, wisdom, or virtue, than the world at large possesses, will be cruelly disappointed all through practical life. | Conclusion.—The sentiments promulgated, young gentlemen, it is hoped, and not even doubted, will make a proper im- | pression on your juvenile minds. Your honour, your interest, your reputation, all depend on the prosecution of your studies I with energy and vigilance. You are engaged in a profession that cannot admit any moments for idleness, relaxation, or i other pursuits. The human intellects, Iiowcver gifted, however formed by nature, and improved by application, can scarcely I even be equal to the boundless diversities of medicine ajid human constitutions. Pursue your honourable profession with i ardour, never be satisfied with present knowledge, exert yourselves daily for fresh accessions to science ; so shall you be an i honour to human nature, orjrainents to the profession, and fortunate in life, ff'hough stratagems and finesse artfully directed to interested purposes, many sometmres succeed ; yet they are beneath your dignity. Ileal science, humanity, and urbanity, with sedulity, always lead to professional fame. Practice ail the virtues, avoid all the vices, be strictly honourable in your j j proicssions, and your rewards through life will be certain and durable. SCIIOLA