HISTORY OF MEDICINE, clx fl: Theoretic medicine. 1. Physiology, ora consideration of an liealtliy body. (a) In universal action, which comprehend the whole body. (b) In particular actions, performed by certain organs. (c) In semiotics of a body in health, which explains the general and particular signs of health, (d) In dictics which gives rules for the preservation of health, &c. 2. Pathology, or the consideration of a body diseased. (a) Nosology, which points out the diftcrence of diseases. ^ (b) j?itiology, which investigates the cause of disease. (c) Symptomatology, which treats on the symptoms or effects of disease, (d) Semiotic pathology, w-hich explains the signs of disease. 3. Thcrapia, which consists of the method of curing by indication, it is (a) Vital, or conservative, (b) Prophylactic, or preservative, (c) Therapeutic, or curative, (d) Symptomatic, or palliative. IV. Practical medicine, 1. Clinical, which treats on the cure of internal complaints. 2. Surgical, which is relative to external diseases, and chiefly by management with the hand; 3. Judicial, or the consideration of diseases in a legal point of view, 4. Casual, or consultations, which includes the consideration of uncommon diseases, and difiicult questions that occur in- practice. A Short Admonition to Students in the different Branches of Medicine^. Young Gentlemen, TOR your liberal profession, in this free country, entitles you to that appellation, honour, and rank in life. It is your duty' 4o support your own and professional dignity with noble sentiments, probity, and humanity. Let all your actions be graced with those exalted virtues, that were earnestly recommended by the great Aristotle, who concentrated in his own capa- cious mind, all the wisdom and refined ethics, or morality of preceding Greek philosophers. They consisted in prudencf, tnansuetude, or great affability and mildness of manners, fortitude, temperance, continence, justice, liberality, and 7nagnanimity.* These were the laudable virtues, that the most accomplished, and learned of the Greeks, the noble Stagyrite, and sagacious preceptor of Alexander the Great, ardently inculcated, and what that first of Pioman orators, the penetrating Cicero, imitated in his excellent didactic work, De officiis. Those rules and examples for upright conduct in life, would not disgrace the mild precepts of Christianity; they appertain to the nobleman, gentleman, scholar, and all the liberal professions; without which accomplishments a learned education is ill hestowed. If any v/ork excel in inspiring the human mind with the most elevated moral sentiments, and all those excel- lent qualities, which every man of honour, and gentleman should possess, the important graces of civil and polite life; it is Tally’s offices. Read, reflect, and imitate ; for the great orator and philosopher, ennobles the mind, and censures all low groveling, selfish, ideas, duplicity, and deception. Cunning, however refined, however cautiously exercised, never led any man honourably through life. If virtue sometimes may be its own reward, vice, sooner or later, never fails to torment and produce its fears, punishment, and disgiacc. Never suffer any mean notions to pervade your minds. Endeavour to obtain, by science and strict moral rectitude, a fair reputation ; bid defiance to envy and calumny, or the vile railings of turpitude; for thcy,^as its shade, pursue intrinsic merit, in every condition of life. If you excel in your profession, you must be punished, by hateful detraction, and well might that pcnetiator into human characters, Dr. Swift, say, “ you may know f f “ w hen ♦ * In Ills TTQrlc entitled APIXTOTEAOTS FI'EPI APETHN, yiui K-AK-IflN, and the same, or siniijar; work of Pcxtiio, edited by Edwardus Fawconcr, Collrg, Merton, apud Oxon, published by Fietclier and Rivington, in Greek andLatin.