Ivi HISTORY OF.MEDCINE. and the blood is at the same lime increased by the aliments, and growth of the body; then the blood, not finding a free passage, in consequence of its large quantity, recoils to the heart and diaphragm. When these are filled, the patient becomes foolish, then torpid, and lastly, delirious. In his De Morb. Mulierum is inserted, the following description of the fluor, albus. (u) The matter discharged resembles the white urine of an ass. White swellings appear oil the patient's face; the^ parts below her eyes swell; her eyes are disordered, and appear as if she were dropsical; the colour of her skin is whitish, and the lower part of the abdomen tumid; on her legs appear tumours, so soft and lax, as to retain the impressions of the, linger. She perceives a biting pain of the stomach, (x) and seems to feel an acid water lodged in it, when she is cither fasting, or happens to vomit. When she goes up a steep place, she is seized w'ith a shortness of breathing, (y) her legs are cold, knees feeble, and her uterus preteriiaturally opened, and falling down, with a sense of weight, to its mouth. But it is. t difficult to cure those who labour under this degree of the disorder, ('zj la his book De Sterilitatc, he says, that women ^ who have their uterus too moist, or slippery, cannot conceive; ('aj because the uterus suffers the seminal matter to fall out - of it, and a convulsion and snycope happening to a woman, troubled with an immoderate discharge of the fluor albus is ] ▼ery bad. fbj .a ON THE MENSES, &c. In the first book De Morbis Mulierum, Hippocrates affirms that two heminm are discharged, of menstrual blood, at each evacuation. He attributed most of the diseases of women to the situation of the uterus. cj And he observes, that in some few' women, the menstrual blood retained in the uterus, for two months, regurgitates to the lungs, and produces all the symptoms of a consumption, ('dj Both the overflowing of the menstrual discharge, and its suppression, produce diseases, (e) The monthly evaeuations of females, if they be discoloured, and do not proceed in the usual manner and time, purging is necessary. CfJ A woman w'ho vomits blood is cured, if her menses issue forth; (gj and a nasal hemorrhage is useful to women, in whom there is any deficiency of the menstrual evacuations, {hj To check the menstrual discharge, when it flows in too great a quantity, great cupping glasses should be applied to the breasts; (ij but to produce the discharge of the menses, when they are suppressed, a fumigation of aromatics is useful; (k) and this would often prove serviceable in other disorders. In women who are waterish and pale, the menses continue longer than three days. (1) Those women who are fair, and white, have such abundance of humours, that they issue many ways; (m) contrary to those of a brown and swarthy complexion, who are commonly of a more dry constitution, (n) A story is related of one Phaetusa, who,, when her husband was banished, was so overcome with sorrow, that before the natural time of the menses quitting her, a suppression happened, her body became masculine and hairy, she had a beard, and her voice grew stronger, (oj The same he records to have happened to Namisia, the wife of Corgippus, in Thaso. The menstrual discharge frets the earth like vinegar, (p) and corrodes the body of the woman, on whatever part it drops, and excoriates the parts of generation, (q) In the months the same things are performed, by certain and right reason, that are done in days; (r) for, every month, healthful women have their menses, as if the month had a peculiar power and effect oh their bodies. i I / 4 ■ - REMEDIES'' 5 (u) Fluor albus desertion. (*) Difficult of cure. (c) De locis homine. (x) Pain in the stomach, &c. (a) Fluor albus prevents conception, (d) Retention of the menses. (y) Difficulty of breathing. (b) Morb. mul. XIV. 7f 9. Aph. 56, SejS T. (e) Nat. mul. XIV. 5. 1. Morb. mul, I. S. Morh. mul. III. 5. 6. Natur. puer. VI. 14. XIII. 1. Virg. morb. II. 5. Aph. 57. Sect. V. (f) Verat. I. II. 60. Nat. mul. X. 3. Aph. 36. Sect. V. (g) Uterine discharge, cures vomiting blood. 1. Morb. IV. Aph. 32. Sect. V. (A) Virg. morb. III. 2. l'. Epid. III. 138. Aph. 33. Sect. V. (i) Cupping glass to the breasts, in uterine hemorrhage. 2 Epid. VI. 33. 2. Morb. mul. I. 5. 11. 17. Aph. 5. Sect. VI. (k) Suppressed menses. Aph. 28. Sect. V» (1) VI. Epid. 1. (m) Complexioas of femakt eoaswlercd. (n) Lib. Epid. 17. (o) A female beeame masculine, by suppressed menses. (p) Morb. mul. bb. 1. (;) 111 quality of the menses not very just. (r) Pc septimestri partu. )