HISTORY OF MEDICINE Ixxxiv He esteemed tlie lieart to hn the origin and source of the yeins and blood, (s) Tlie blood, says he, g9cs from the heart into the veins ; but it comes not from any part into the heart. Tlic brain was, in his opinion, a heap of water, and earth. The office of which cold lump, he said, was to refrigerate, and moderate the heat of the heart. CfJ likewise says, that the brain, and spinal marrow, have not sensum tactus, the sense of feeling. ITie reason why the brain was formed to refrigerate the heart, ^x) was, first, because it was without blood and veins ; and again, because the brain of man, is of all animals the largest, for that his heart is the hottest. The spleen, he says, is necessary, though not absolutely so, though it sometimes attracts the excrement from the stomach, and forms it into its own nourishment. He mentions the jejunum, the colon, caecum, and rectum ; so that the intestines were better distinguished by him, than in the time of Hippocrates. The liver, according to him, was an assistant in digesting the meat in the stomach, and intestines. The kidneys are only for conveniency ; their office is to imbibe part of the excrement, which goes to the bladder of animals, in whom this excre- ment is in too great abundance. CyJ , He held that conception was performed by the mixture of the semen of a man, with the menstrical blood in the matrix, allowing no share to the semen of the female ; which he thought only an excrement of the matri.x. The use of the lungs, and manner of respiration, according to Aristotle, were these. The heart being inflated by too much heat, obliged the lungs and breast to swell and move, and by consequence to receive the air, which, insinuating itself into the heart, refreshed it in its entrance, and returning, carried off the thick hot vapors exhaling from it, and served at the same time, to form the voice; the air being necessarily obliged to enter into the lungs as they rise, for fear of a void, which is a thing nature abhors. Aristotle confounded the veins, arteries, and nerves ; and neither Plato, nor himself, called any part an artery, except the asperia arteria. Tendons, and nerves, or ligaments, are likewise indistinctly mentioned. As to the various conjectures of the philosophers concerning the senses, as seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, and feeling, we shall pass them over, only remarking, that they are all erroneous, and in general different from each other. Soon after Aristotle, appeared Herophilus, and Erasistratus, who lived in the times of Ptolomy Sotor, and Ptolomy Lag'us. These are said, to be the first who dissected human bodies, in order to contemplate the parts, and their uses, It is reported, that these two physicians dissected men alive. The principal parts of their anatomy is to be found in the works of Galen. And it is imagined, they were the first who dissected and distinguished the nerves, of which, he said, there were three sorts. Nerves that are the immediate organs of sensation, and ministers of the will, arising from the brain in branches, and were a part of the medulla spinalis. The second proceeded from some of the bones, and terminated at others of them. The third, arose from some of the muscles, and terminated at others of them. By this it appears, that Herophilus gave the name of nerves to those parts, which were afterwards called ligaments, and tendons. He gave the name of optic pores, to the nerves of the eye. He imagined the reasonable soul was lodged in the ventricles of the brain. But one of his principal discoveries, w'as, his finding certain veins in the mesentery, which according to him, were destined to nourish the intestines, which do not, like the other veins, go to the venae portae, but terminate in certain glandular bodies. Erasistratus likewise discovered something of the same nature, which are now called the lacteal vessels. And as he learnt anatomy, not by reading books, he invented new names, giving names to parts that before had none. He called the first intestine, or that which is next the stomach, AuJtxaJaxToXoy, because it is twelve inches in length. It was Herophilus who first called two tunics of the eye, the tunica retina; and the tunica arachnoides; he also called that membrane that lines the ventricles of the brain, the membrane choroides, because he sdw it resembled the chorion, which covers the foetus in the matrix. He gave the name of glandulae parastatae, to those glands which are situated at the root of the penis. He stiled these parastata; glandulous, to distinguish them from other parastatie, which he called varicose, and which he placed at the extremity of those vessels, which convey the semen from the testes ; or rather as it is thought to prepare jf. Tiui (s) De partib. animal, lib. 3. (uj Histor. animal, lib. 3. cap. 7. (y) Dc part. auim. lib. 3. oap. 7. (t) De part. anim. lib. 2. cap. 7. Dc sommo. and vigilia. cap. 5. {x) Dc partib. animal, lib. 2. cap. 7. (a) Dc gcaer, anim. lib. 1, 1 cap. 10. | (a) Celsus proof.