) ( 132 THE S. The lachrjnnal sac membranous inclosed cavity, situ- ated at the internal corner of the eye. 9. The nasal duct is a mcmbr<nnous canal, which passes downwards, and a little backwiirds from the inferior part of the lachrymal sac, through a bony canal into tlie cavity of the nose, and opens just under the in- ferior spongy bone. 10. The tunica, or inembrana conjunctiva, or conjunctive membrane, which is likewise called albugineas, or white of the eye, is a membrane, covering the internal surface of the eye-lids, and the anterior surface of the bulb. THE BULB OF THE EYE CONSISTS OF EIGHT MEM- BRANES : Two chambers, and three humours. THE MEMBRANES ARE FOUR AT THE POSTERIOR PART OF THE BULB; NAMELY, The sclerotic, choroid, retina, hyaloid, POUR AT THE ANTERIOR PART ARE Transparent cornea. Iris. Uvea. Capsula of the chrystalline lens, 1. The sclerotic membrane is the most external, beginning at the optic nerve, and forming a spherical cavity, ends at the edge of the cornea transparens. The anterior part of the sclerotic membrane is clear, and called the transparent cornea. 2. The choroid membrane is of a black colour, beginning at the optic nerve, on the internal surface of the sclero- tic membrane, and ending at the margin of the cornea. At this place it recedes from the cornea, going backwards, and transversely, and forms a floating membrane in the middle of the round perforated foramen. This membranous circle of the choroid membrane, at the an- terior part, is called the iris; but on the posterior part of the uvea, and that rouiul foramen left in the middle, is the pupil, which can dilate and contract itself by the assistance of almost invisible muscular fibres.—See the Plates. 3. The retina is the most internal membrane of the bulb, of a whitish colour-like mucus, beginning at the optic nerve, of which it is an expansion, (of the medullary substance) and covering the inner surface of the cho- roid membrane as far as the margin of the chrystal- linc humour, where it ends. THE CHAMBERS OF THE EYE ARE 1. The anterior chamber is an hollow space, beginning at its fore part, from the internal surface of the cornea, and at its posterior part, it is formed by the surface of the 1 iris, and pupil. | 2. The posterior chamber is that small cavity, formed at its anterior part by the uvea and pupil; and at its poste- rior part by the anterior surface of the chrystalline lens ; both these chambers are filled with an aqueous humour. I THE HUMOURS OF THE EYE ARE , 1. An aqueous humour, which fills both chambers of the eye, supposed to be deposited, and renewed, if eva- cuated by the cxhalcnt arteries of the cornea. 2. The chrystalline lens is a clear body ; in size, resembling | a lens, situated behind the pupil, in a peculiar de- I jiression of the vitreous humour ; it is surrounded by 1 a membranous covering, called the capsule of the 's chrystalline lens. 3. The vitrous humour is a pellucid body, which alone I almost fills, and distends the cavity of the bulb as far | as the uvea. The whole external surface is covered with a strong pellucid membrane, called the hyaloid membrane, at the ante- rior part of which there is a depression to receive the ^ chrystalline lens. J ( CONNECTION OF THE BULB, AT THE FORE PART, k Is by means of the conjunctive membrane with the eye-lids; I at the posterior part, it is connected with the orbits I by six muscles of the bulb, and by the optic nerve. 1 The optic nerve, at the posterior part of the bulb, perforates / the sclerotic, and choroid membrane, then forms the retina. USE. ' ^ It is the organ of vision. ___________ n, THE EAR. ' The soft parts, forming the ear, are divided into external and internal. THE SOFT EXTERNAL PARTS ARE 1. The external ear. 2. meatus auditorius externus, or the external auditory passage. 3. The membrane of the tempanum. THE INTERNAL SOFT PARTS ARE 1. The internal periosteum of the car. 2. The common membrane of the internal car. 3. The Eustachian tube. The glands which secrete the cerumen, or wax of the ear, are under the skin of the meatus auditorius externus. USE. It is the organ of hearing.