USE. ( »42 ) «. THE INTEIVyAL AttE Tbo vagina, uterus. fallopian tubes, ovaria. bruaci and round ligaments of the uterus, and urethra. The mons veneris is a round fatty protuberance, covered with hair, lying over the junction of the bones of the pubis. The labia majora are two fatty projections, beginning under the mons veneris, covering the labia minora, and passing each side of the orifice of the vagina, go to the perineum, where they are united together by a trans- verse cutaneous fold, called the frenulum labiorum. The labia minora, which are also called nympluu, are two cu- taneous folds, like the comb of a cock, situated at the orifice of the vagina. The clitoris is a glandular part, placed under the anterior di- vision of the labia majora. The hymen is a membrane, mostly semilunar in shape, which adheres to the orifice of the vagina, ^during virginity, The vagina is a ’membranous passage, beginning within the labia minora, and ascending to he neck of the uterus, between the.bones of the pubis and the rectum.—It consists of three membranes : 1. The external one is cellular, from the cellular membrane of the peritoneum. 2. The middle is muscular, consisting of fleshy fibres. 3. The internal consists of transverse rugaj, or folds. The urethra is a membranous canal, wider than in men, and descending straight from the urinary bladder, between the bones of the pubis and the vagina, terminating by an orifice under the clitoris, between the nymphae, at their origin. 'I’he uterus is a receptacle, situated in the cavity of the pelvis, above the vagina, between the bladder and rectum. SH.VPE. Like a flattened- pair. DIVISION. Into fundus, which is its superior and broadest part; body, or middle; neck, or inferior part, in which is a narrow orifice, and a transverse fissure at the neck of the uterus, projecting into the vagina. Cavity of the uterus, in a virgin, is small, hardly sufficient to contain an almond: it has three openings; two at the sides, called the internal orifices of the fallopian tubes; and another at its cervex, or inferior part, called the uterine orifice. The broad ligaments of the uterus are formed by a duplica- ture of peritoneum, which gives an external covering to the uterus, and extending on its side to the ossa ilia: these ligaments support the uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaria. The round ligaments of the uterus arise from the sides of the uterus, going towards its fundus, pass to the inguinal, or abdominal rings, and terminate in the fat near those parts. The fallopian tubes are two membranous canals, arising from the sides of the fur.dus of the uterus, and going lo- w-ards the ovaria, at the superior margin of the broad ligaments. The ovaria are two flattened bodies in the cavity of the pelvis, at the sides of the uterus. SUBSTANCE. On the exterior part, is fibrous; internally, vesicular, par- ticularly in virgins. These vesicules are called the female ovula, which, in old women, disappear. THE GLANDS OF THE GENITAL PARTS ARE 1. The mucous glands of the vagina, situated under its in- ternal, or rugous coat. 2. The odoriferous glands of the labia and clitoris. 3. The muciparous glands of the urethra, found under its internal membrane. USE Of the genitals is for coition. conception, nutriment of the foetus. parturition, menstruation. PARTS OF THE GRAVID UTERUS. THE PARTS CONTAINED IN THE GRAVID UTERUS ARE 1. The Uterine placenta.’ 2. umbilical chord. 3. ovum of the foetus. 4. liquor amnii. 5. foetus. THE UTERINE PLACENTA Is a spongy mass, like a cake, which mostly adheres to the fundus of the gravid uterus. • DIVISION. Into the margin and middle, into which the umbilical chord is inserted, at its inferior surface; into asiiperior sur- face, which is rugged ; and inferior, which is smooth. SUBSTANCE. Is cellular, like a sponge; and very vascular.