( 144 ) The The veins are also membranous canals, but do not pulsate, gradually becoming larger toward the heart, into which they return the blood. The origin of all arteries is from the ventricles of the heart: 1. The pulmonary artery, from the right. 2. The aorta, from the left ventiicle, Divisiorr Of an artery is into a trunk, branches, smaller branches, and capillary vessels. THE EXTREMITIES OF ARTERIES ARE OF THREE KINDS ; 1. Ending in veins. 2. secreting vessels. 3. other arteries, by anastomosis. SUBSTANCE OF AN ARTERY CONSISTS OF THREE membranes: An outside, or cellular coal. A middle, or muscular, with longitudinal, and circular fibres. An intei’nal, or smooth. USE. Arteries cany blood from the heart to every part of the body for nutrition; the preservation of life; animal heat; the secretion of various humours, or fluids. SYSTEM OF THE AORTA. ' The aorta, first, gives off two coronary arteries, then forms the arch, which gives ofi' three branches : 1. The artcria innominata, from which the right caiotid, and ri»ht subclavian arteries arise. O 2. The left carotid. 3. The left subclavian. The carotid arteries are divided into external and internal. The external carotid gives off eight branches to the face. - The internal carotid goes to the brain. The subclavian artery gives off four branches : 1. Themammaria interna, or internal mammary artery. 2. cervical. 3. vertebral. 4. superior intercostal. The subclavian, on passing out of the trunk', is called the axillary artery; when in the arm, it is called the brachial. The brachial artery, at the flexure of the fore-arm, gives off three branches; The cubital, radial, interosseal. The descending aorta, whilst m the thorax, gives off four branches: The bronchial, oesophageal, ten inferior intercostal, inferior diaphragmatic. The descending aorta, in the abdomen, gives off eight branches: The cceliac. superior mesenteric, venal, spermatic, inferior mesaraic. lumbar. sacral, and terminates in the iliac. The iliac arteries are sub-divided into external and internal. The internal iliac gives off five branches to the pelvis. The external iliac gives off the epigastric artery, and, descending, becomes the inguinal; after which it is called the crural. The crural, passing under the /lam, is named the popliteal. The popliteal gives off three branches: The anterior tibial. posterior tibial. peroneal. THE AORTA Arises from the left ventricle of the heart, makes an arch to- wards the vertebrm of the back, then descending, ■ passes through the diaphragm into the abdomen, where it is found resting on the left side of the spine,. as far as the last lumbar vertebra, at which place it divides into the two iliacs. From its origin to the iliac arteries, the following branches are sent off: The coronary arteries arise at the arch of the aorta. The arch of the aorta gives oft’ three branches . 1. The arteria innominata. ^ 2. left carotid. 3. subclavian. The arteria innominata arises from the arch of the aorta, and soon divides into the right subclavian, and right carotid. The carotid arteries ascend as far as the larynx, then divide into external and internal. The e.xtcrnal carotid passes up near the ear to the temporal region, during which passage it gives off eight branches to the neck aud face,