Ixxviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. suppressing tlie truth, but have frequently been languid in their examination into the merits of the different proposals for the reformation of the most striking errors. As for Plato, he neither knew the anatomy of the human body, nor the nature of diseases. The notion of respiration, the asserting that liquids passed through the trachea to the lungs, the duty of the heart, the opinion of the triangles, and, in short, all the things advanced by Plato on these subjects, are highly ridiculous, and full of absurdity. The profound learning of Aristotle has been echoed in every age and country ; and from this it might be naturally inferred that his merit was singular, his sagacity extraordinary, and learning universal; for he has boldly written on most subjects; and with truth, it may be asserted, he excelled in poetry, logic, and rhetoric. The natural history of Aristotle was a standard work for several ages, though, it is full of defects and falshoods ; and his other works equally ex- ceptionable, have formerly been admired and taught in the schools. A convincing proof of the extreme indolence, negligence, and ignorance of philosophical professors, who were often the last in promoting improvements. History informs us, that the works of this philosopher, lay in a chest, and were buried in the earth, for near an hundred and thirty years, (a) For Aristotle left his writings to Theophrastus, one of his most illustrious disciples; (b) he transferred them to Neleus of Scepsis, (c) z. city m the neighbourhood of Pergamus, in Asia. His heirs, who were ignorant persons, kept them shut up, till the kings of Per- gamus began industriously to collect all sorts of books for their library ; and then they buried them in a vault under ground. Some of the family, after living in extreme poverty dug them up, and sold them to Apellicon, a rich Athenian. Sylla, in the course of his conquests had seized the library of Apellicon, and sent them to Rome. Apellicon had already endeavoured to supply the chasms, and other defects of the work produced by time; for the originals were worm-eaten, and obliterated in many places. Now, these defects being supplied by conjecture, it is not probable that we have the original work of Ari- stotle. A famous grammarian, then at Rome, named Tyrannian, obtained permission of Sylla’s library keeper, to copy them ; this copy was communicated to Andronicus, the Rhodian, who afterwards imparted it to the public. The world is obliged to him for the works of that philosopher. It is not extraordinary, that the works of Aristotle gained such an ascendancy over the minds of the Romans, who at that time were just immerged from a state of ferocity, and ignorance of politeness, to a taste for the polite arts ; and at such a time every thing is admired, which has but the appearance of deep erudition. And an author of such distinguished reputation as Aristotle, was received with uncommon marks of favour and veneration. At this time the Romans began likewise to have a favourable opinion of Greek literature; oratory was studied with uncommon as- siduity. Eloquence, and the art of persuasion, were arts that the Greeks excelled all other nations ; and a spirit of emula- tion excited the most ambitious men, in the Roman republic, to attain this necessary accomplishment, so useful in a popular state. The world never saw a greater master in rhetoric than Aristotle ; and it is natural to suppose, as he was found so su- perior to all other writers on this subject, that credit should be given him for an equal excellence in the other branches of science. Thus was his reputation established, not by a minute examination into his merit, as a philosopher, which part was little read, and less understood ; but from the admirable precepts on logic, poetics, &c. so universally studied, and admired, by the principal orators, and statesmen of every age. The philosophical principles of Aristotle have been amply refuted by the distinguished men of the last and present age; it would, therefore, be dishonourable to vanquish the vanquished. But his notions in anatomy ought to he censured; for they have had extraordinary influence amongst medical writers, for several centuries ; and though they are now universally con- demned, and acknowledged to be false, yet they may be with propriety introduced; as a memorable example of the inconsi- derate credulity of medical practitioners. For it was sufficient, in a medical controversy, to produce the opinion of Aristotle, or Plato, these were chiefs who term inated the most violent disputes, and reduced the refractory to obedience. It was not a question, whether Plato, or Aristotle spoke truth, no, mankind were educated in a slavish obedience to their authority ; and their extent of learning estimated in proportion as their minds were capable of understanding, and believing in the Platonic, and Aristotelian discourses of the schools. The notions of the blood not coming from any part to the heart; the brain being supposed a cold lump of water, and earth, and refrigerating the heat of the heart, and destitute of veins and blood, are all exceedingly erroneous, and must have been written at random. The same may be said, of what he hath advanced on the spleen, liver, and kidneys, lungs, respira- tion, (o) Plut. in SyU p. 468. [1) Strabon. I. 13. p. 609. (c) Laert. inTheoph.