XVI HISTORY OF MEDICINE “ Asiwt Grcci^que tractu Arktoteli parere Jatsa sinf, omnium quos venatus, aiicvpia, pJscattuque akbant: qttihusque viiaria, ** armenta, akearia, pischicc, aiiaria in cura cranf ; ne quid usqnam gentium, ignoraretur ab eo: quos pcrcontando 50 ferfite Tolumina illaprcedara de animalibas condidit.” Hist. Mumli Lib. c. xvi. Athcnaeuj “ they affected at the madness of Democritus, who at lliat time was seriously employed in philosophy. When they perceived me, they seemed, \ “ litUe, to be comforted, and to have some hope. Philopoemen offered to conduct me to mj lodging, as all o*' them likewise desired; but I told “ them. Men of Abdera, I will do nothing before I have seen Democritus; wliich they no sooner heard, than they applauded, rejoiced, and “ brought me immediately along the forum ; some following, others running before, crying out. Great king J upitor, help, heal! I advised them to “ be comforted; for tliat it being the season of the Etesian winds, I was confident, there was not any sickness that would continue long: and in " saying this, on I proceeded. The house was not far, nor indeed the city; we went to it, being near the city walls, whither they conducted “ me quietly. Behind tlic tower there was a high hill, very full of tall poplars; from whence we beheld the habitalion of Democritus. Democritus “ himself sat under a shady, but low plane tree; in a thick grove all alone, squalid, upon a seat of stone, wan and lean, with a long beard. At “ his right hand, a little brook ran down the hill; upon which was a tenvjile consecrated, as it should seem, to the muses, encompassed with vines, “ which grew there spontaneously. He sat very composed, having a book on his knees, and round about him lay other books; with “ the bodies of many animals dissected. Sometimes he wrote hastily; sometimes jiaused, seeming to consider things within him- “ self. Soon after he arose and walked, and intently examined the dissected creatures; then laid them down again, and returned to “ his seat. The Abderites, standing about me, and hardly refraining from tears, said. You see, Hippocrates, the life of Democritus, “ how mad he is; he knows neither what he would have, nor what he does. One of them, who would have given me a farther description of his “ madness, on a sudden fell a sobbing, and howled like a woman at the death of her son, and then began to lament like a traveller robbed of hii " goods; which Democritus hearing, sometimes smiled, sometimes laughed, not writing any longer, but shaking his head. Men of Abdera (said I) “ remain here, while I approach nearer; that, by hearing him speak, and obsening his coustitutmi, I may Judge clearly of the distemper: in so " saying, I went gently down; the place was very steep, so that I could hardly keep myself from falling. 'When 1 came near, it happened, “ that he was writing something, in a rapture, earnestly; whereupon I halted, waiting till he should give over. It was not long before this " occurred; and, perceiving me advance towards him, said. Hail, stranger! I answered. Hail, also, Democritus, the wisest of men! He, as I " imagine, a little concerned, that he had not saluted me by name, replied. What may I call you? for my ignorance of your name is the " reason that I styled you stranger. My name, said I, is Hippocrates, the physician You are, said he, the glory of the Hiisculapians, tlie •' fame of whose worth, and knowledge in physic, is arrived as far as me. What business has brought you hither? but first sit down. Tliis “ scat, you see, is pleasant, green, and soft; better than high thrones, which are subject to the envy of fortune. When I was seated; is " it a public or private business, saith he, which brought you here? tell me freely, and we shall, to our utmost power, assist you. I answered, “ It is on your account, that 1 came hither, to be acquainted with you, a wise person, the occasion being afforded me by an embassy from yourco\m- “ try. He replied. Then let my house entertain you. Having thus made trial of him several ways, and not perceiving any thing like insanity ; Yon know, said I, Philopoemen, one of this town ? Exceeding well, answe'red he, you mean the son of Damon : he lives near the Herma;an fountain. “ The same, replied I; he has been an old acquaintance, and kindly received me for his guest. But you, Democritus, I intreat to afford me a better " entertainment; and, first tell me, what it is, that you are writing. He, after a little pause, answered, concerning modiicss. Good Jupiter, said I, “ you write seasonably against the city ! What city, Hippocrates? answered he. 1 replied, that I only spoke at random. But what do you write of " madness? What else said he, but explaining what it i.s, how it comes to be generated in man, and how it may be cured. These animals, which " you behold, I have dissected for that purpose; not as hating the works of the gods, but to make inquiry into the nature and seat of choler. You " know, where fcile abounds too much, it most commonly causes madness in men; it is in every person; but in some less, in others more: its excess " causeth diseases, being a matter partly good, partly had. By Jove, said I, Democritus, you speak truly and wisely, and I judge you happy, who, “ can enjoy a serenity I cannot partake of. But why cannot you ? saith he. I answered. Because either travels, children, or estate, sicknesses, “ deaths, servants, marriages, or the like, interrupt my repose. Hereupon he fell into his usual passion, and laughed for some time cxeeedingly, sus- " pending discourse. Why, said I, Democritus, do you laugh ? Whether is it, that I have spoken well or ill ? Upon this, he laughed more than be- “ fore, which the-\bderites, who stood a distance off, perceiving, some shook their heads, othcis beat their foreheads, others tore their hair; fur, as " they afterwards said, they observed him to laugh at that time more than ever he had before. Democritus, thou best of wise men, replied I, I desire " to know the reason of this passion ? What have I said that seems ridiculous ? for if it proves such, I may reform it, but if otherwise, you may desist " from this unreasonable laughter. By Hercules, said he, if you can convince me, Ilippoerates, you will effect a cure greater than any you have yet " performed. Wherefore, said I, should you not be convinced? Know you not, that you act absurdly in laughing at the death of a man, sickness, “ madness, murder, or any thing worse than these; and on the other side, on marriages, assemblies, the birth of infants, solemn rites, magistracies, '* honours, and, generally, at every tiling that is nominated good ? Those things which deserve to be pitied excite laughter ; and, those, for whichwe “ should rejoice, you laugh also; therefore you appear not to place any difference between good and evil, llien, said he. You speak well, Htppoerates ; “ but you are not yet acquainted with the reason of my laughter, which, when you know, I am confident you will prefer to the cause for which vou •' travelled here, and convey it as a medicine to your own country, thereby improving both yourself and others. In requital, perhaps you will think " yourself obliged to teach me physic ; when you shall uuderstaad, what trouble all men lake for things that deserve not labour; things of no value, “ and