Cv sft ,101. Ramulus, arising from the ,grciit dorsal ganglion, lisq ^^);un'rt»hg*BdiihcFt1iV'artet'y^ IvK pjl*''' hnr, ,tu.7 102.103. Two surculi of the same, Inserted Into t)ie Inusculus ■'o'- 'S'alcnus prior et miWmds’r' 104. Ramus gangliformis, proceeding from the anterior ■ ^rt of the great'thota'cic ganglion to the plexus cardiacus, ‘ 105. Ramulus, produced from the anterior margin of. the •' j-s same, which, after forming an island, is at length inserted into the gangliform ramus. 105. The part where it is again inserted. 107.. Ramulus, going from the gangliform ramus. No. 104, about the posterior surface of the artcri:}. in- nominata to the internal and cardiac plexus 103. The ramus gangliformis, which running to the ante- rior surface of the same artery, is there inflected, extends behind the internal surface to the cardiac plexus. 10.9. Inferior part of the par vaguin. 110. Its ramulus, passing to the thyroid artery. 111. -—:; , which, in this body, is turned towards the arteria innominata and aorta, and forms the su- perficial cardiac nerve. Figure II. i 'slEPRESENTS, principally, the, NERVI MOLLES , PROM ANOTHER BODY. a b c. Trunk of the carotid artery, b. The internaL c. The external. ^ d. The superior thyroid artery. < «. The lingual artery, . f. The ascending pharyngeal artery of Haller., v g. The labial artery of Haller. h. The occipital artery. ' i. The remaining trunk of the external carotid artery ascending further. k. Ganglion cervicale superius. ' I. in. Its two rami molles. 1. First, m. Second, n. n. Nervus cardiacus supremus, or superhcialis, arising from ganglion k. 0. o. Trunk of the intercostal nerve. p. p. Superior ramulus of the first ramus mollis, running ; to the labial artery. q. Another ramulus of the first ramus mollis, lit. I, which, by the lollowing > r. Ramulus ascending from the m rvus laryngcusof the eighth pair, is joined with the above-mentioned nerve. s. Ramusjlit. q. which running downwards almost in a lino;is combined with ranuis. No. t, t. , formed of lit. s, and No. 20. which descends - to the'*uperior thyroid artery. .;J u. Third ramulus of nerve lit. 1. ' * V. lts-supcti'6'r rSihuluS,' soon dividing' itself into sur- I culi w and x. ' *'■ w. SurCulus/ rtscending in the internal surface of the ex- ■ ternal carotid. For, in this'figure, the carotis cx- ■ ' terna is removed anteriorly, to shew its internal sur- face extenorly, X. Another surculus, lit. v. which dividing into two, i y. Accompanrcs*the lingual artery in the superior sur- culus; 2. But by the inferior it is distributed in Ihc'musculus i stylo-pharyngeus, and constrictor medius pharyngis. [ a. u. Inferior ramulus of nerve, lit. u, forming an ansa ' around the external carotid artery. /3. Trunculus of the first nervus mollis, descending fur- ther. ■' \' y. Ramulus, ex. lit. 0, extending anteriorly. ‘ Its surculus, inclining to the middle constrictor of the pharynx. f, Surculus, going to the part of the constricto^j pharyngis inferior, ascending from the thyroid cap«l| tilage. [ i Surculus, proceeding to the thyroid gland. r). Surculus, running to the constrictor inferior pharyn- ; gis. ©. Insertion of ramus, lit. «,'into ramus, lit. 0. K Ramulus, derived from ramulus, lit. 0, to the gang- j lion parvum, lit. | I*. Ganglion parvum, which is situated on the division j of the carotids; but upon drawing away the arteries, j now appears in rather a superior position. Another ramulus, descending from the first nervus mollior.' *. Surculus of the same, touching the trunk of the intcrcostalis. f. Another surculus of it, verging to the ganglion par- vum, lit. (4.. I Ramulus molHs, passing from the ganglion parvum j to the internal carotid. T. Exterior surculus of the same. ' Internal surculus. 4^, Another ramulus of the ganglion parvum, running to the carotis communis, u. Its ramulus, .surrounding the beginning of the in* I ternal carotid artery, j No. 1. Indicates the part delineated by dots, running behind the artery. 2. Ramulus, running downwards above the common trunk of the carotids. 3.4. Ih