The ( 1^4 But ideas are perceptions of things in the mind, and arise 1. Either from the external senses, or reflection, 2. From an internal cause, affecting the common sensorium, 3. Or excited in the mind voluntarily, after the apprehension of a difference of things. The proximate cause of the ideas, seems to consist in the motion of the nervous pavers in a particular part of the common sensorium. THE USE 07 IRRJTABItlTY. g 1. The motion of all muscles, voluntary and involuntary, a depends upon it. w 2. The action of the heart and vessels. - I'i 3. The peristaltic motion of the stomach and intestines, Sec, ^ i i It is the mind, and not the brain, that thinks. THERE ARE FIVE INTEHXAL SENSES: 1. Memory, which represents the ideas received at some past time. 2. Imagination, which makes an object pi'esent, though absent. 3. The conscience, which makes us attentive to, and con- scious of, ideas. Passions of the mind, which produce an hatred, love, or desire of any thing. 5. Reason, which compares ideas with each other, and dis- cerns those alike from unlike;, true from false; good from evil, &c. USE. Man differs from the brute creation by the excellence of his internal senses. ON IRRITABILITY. Irritability is a power in every muscular fibre of contracting, on the application of a stimulus. The cause of irritability is not known; it does not depend merely on elasticity, nor on the mind, nor nerves only, but, in a certain degree, is in the muscular fibres. The parts of our body which have muscular fibres, are called irritable—as the heart, arteries, all muscles, the diaphragm, stomach, and intestines; bladder, uterus, vagina, and vise lacte®, or absorbents. The parts which have no muscular fibres, arc als<5 void of irritability—as nerves, the common integuments, and alt membranes that are not muscular. The heart is the most irritable part; then the stomach and intestines; next follows the diaphragm, and other muscles in the scale of irritability. The degree of irritability is also difierent, according to the age, sex, constitution, kind of life, state of health, and idiosyncrasia, or individual peculiarities. 'tlie stimulus is also different, according to the part to which it is applied, and its own nature. ACTION OF THE MUSCLES. The action of the muscles consists in the contraction and relaxation of fleshy or muscular fibres. The cause disposing it to motion, is the irritability of the muscular fibres. The cause exciting it to contraction, is the influx of nervous power or energy, by an impulse of the mind, which the irritation of the nerves of a muscle, and a liga- ture upon a nerve, elucidate. The contraction of a muscle ceases, if its nervous energy, and the will, or volition cease; the relaxation of the contracted fibres immediately follows. THE MOTION OF MUSCLES IS DIVIDED INTO 1. Voluntary, which is acted on by volition. 2. Involuntary, which is not in the power of the will—as in^j the heart, vessels, stomach, and intestines. ^ 3. ' Mixed, which is carried on by the means of volition, or without it; that is, capable of being varied at pica-"] sure—as respiration. The power of the mind is the cause which acts on voluntaryj muscles. A peculiar stimulus is the cause acting on involuntaryl muscles. The heart and vessels are stimulated to action, by the influ>n • of blood; the stomach and intestines, by the food! and bile; the bladder, by urine; and the inspiratory f muscles, by the air we breathe. THE USES OF MUSCULAR MOTION ARE 1. The action of all the moveable parts of the body. 2. The local motion of the body, as in walking, iScc. 3. The acceleration of the motion of blood in the veins. ; 4. The attenuation of the blood and chyle. 3. To assist the secretion of humours, by arterial action. THE VOICE. The voice is an aerial sound coming from the opening of the ' laryn.x. *