( i8 } PLATE XVI. The Fourth Series of Muscles in the Posterior Part of the Body, Kame and origin. HEAD AND NECK. Insertion. a. Recti postici minorcs; from the first vertebra of the’ Action. neck. I Near the great foramen of the b. Recti postici majores; from the second vertebra of | occiput. 1 They move the head back- the neck. J l wards. c. Ohliijui superiores; from the transverse process of the In the os occipitis behind the mas- j first vertebra. toid process. j d. Obliqui inferiores capitis’, from the second vertebra of Into the process of the first vete- They rotate the head, the neck. bra of the neck. e. Infra spinales ccrvicis; between the processes of the The muscle arising from the su- They erect the neck, and elevate neck. perior vetebra goes to the infe- each spinous process. rior. . Sc aleni mtdii quineqe. g. Intcrtransvcrsarii colli quinque. a. Levatores breviores of the twelve ribs, from the traris- ' verse process^ of the first eleven vertebra; of the back, and of the last of the neck. b. Levatores longiores are proper to the four inferior ribs. I c. Intcrcostales exferni. d. Intercostales interni. e. Pleura consists of a double membrane, surrounds the f. Intertransversarii dorsi, in the space between the two ])rocesses. g. , Semisjiinales dorsi, from the transverse processes of- the 7, 8, ,9> 10th dorsal vertebra;. /.-J Spinaies ccrvicis, from the six superior dorsal ver- tibrm. i. Multifidus spince, from the os sacrum and illuiuj and transverse jrrocesses of the loins of the back and neck. k. Intcrspinales dorsi, f from the spinal processes of /. Intcrspinalesltnnborum,\ the back and loins. m. Intertransversarii lumborum, from the transverse processes. 8, Q,uadraius lumborum. o. Diaphragm, p. Psoce. q THE TRUNK. From one superior rib they run down to the next inferior. They run from one rib to another, where they are inserted. They strengthen the beginning of the first rib, and by means of other muscles elevate the rest. They elevate the ribs, and draw them backwards. whole cavity of the thorax, and every where firmly adheres to it. Connect the superior to the infe- They draw in the transverse pro- nor process. Into the spinal processes of the iforsal vertebrae. Into the spinal processes of the vertebrx of the neck. Into all the spinal processes of the vertebra; of the loins, back, and neck. The superior processes are inserted into the inferior. They fill the spaces between the transverse processes. Iliad. cesses. , They extend the spine obliquely and backwards. Extend the neck obliquely and backward. They move the back obliquely and backward. They draw together the pro- cesses. They draw the lumbar vertebrte. musci.es in the superior extremity. £ubscapulares. Sujnuateres. Pronatores teretes. I'lexores bnxes. Adductores poUicis. Inicrossii,. MUSC LES IN THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Into the minor trochanter of the os feinoris, and below. Into the base of the large tio- chanter ofi the feiuur. Into the linea aspera, and below the condyle of the os femoris. They bend the body and the fe- mur anteriorly. It bends the femur inward, and rotates it outward. Moves the demur upwards, in- wards, and rotates it outwards.. ■«. Tendons common to the p^ucc nnigna with the iliaci interni. b. Obturator externus, from the os pubis and ischium, aiul from the margin of tlie oval foramen. c. Adductor magnus, from the symphisis of the pubis and ischium. i. Tihiales postici. e. Peronri. f. hittrossei 3 inj'crivres, they draw the first phalanx of the fot\r tqes towards the pollex,. or 4 superiores, they draw the same phalanx fronr\ the jvollcx, or ihumii. Trt/rtsrmo/t's;;c<//.s, from the fifth bone of the metatarsus. Into the sesamoid bone, and ad.* and from the plantar aponeurosis. dtictor poUicis. Adductor poUicii, beneath the 4tb, 3d, and 2d os meta-. Into theIsesamoid bone, and first It draws the poile.x,, or thumh.. tarsU bone of the phalanx, of the great toe.. It draws the thumb to the fingers.