HISTORY OF MEDICINE. xxvii cliilil; If the left breast, a female. So if the right breast be enlarged, and projects out, it is a sign that a male is conceived j if the left, a female. (p) The chief cause of the struggling of the infant in the birth, is the want of- nourishmeni. (q) A feniale child has its confirmation of parts, (r) by the forty second day at farthest. A male infant at thirty days. The first beginning of motion, in male children, is at the third month ; in females at the fourth month. So that there is a cei tain proportion of the conformation and motion of the infant, and a double time coming between them. Male children, there- fore, (s) because they receive their form the thirtieth day, do move the ninetieth : (t) now the jiinetieth day makes up the third month. Females, because they have their conformation the forty-second day, arc moved the one hundred and twentieth, which compleats the fourth month, (u) In his book, De Principiis, he promises to make manifest why nature dispenses all things in seven days. The septimestris partus, is circumscribed within thirty weeks; that is two hundred and leu days. The semen issues In m all the moisture which is contained in the whole body. (xj The semen falls from all parts ; sound semen from sound parts ; and sick or diseased, from diseased parts. The semen is diffused out of the brain, into the loins, and medulla of the spine ; (yj and from thence into the kidneys j from the kidneys it is conveyed through the testes to the parts destined for coition. In his hook, Ife Natura Ossium, he says, that the Jugular veins proceed from both sides of the head, into the testes; and thither convey the semen. So that according to liippocrites, there are two ways of conveying the semen to the parts of generation ; by the spine, and by the jugular veins. When you would generate a female, tie the right testicle of the male ; fz.) when you desire a male, tie up the left. Tliere is in men and women, both male and female, semen, (aj It is the best, and strongest part of all the humours, con- tained in the whole body. Those women who have moist wombs do not conceive ; CbJ because their geniture is extinguished. If the semen which proceeds from the man, does concur together, in a right line, (cj and meet with that which flows from the woman, then does the female sooner conceive. If the geniture proceeding of both sexes, be retained in the matrix of the woman, (dj they are presently mixed uniformly into one. The first nourishment of the infant, is by the naval string, through the abdomen. ■' Before the infant is born, it draws the purest blood from the mother, (f) . The infant, as it is situated in the uterus, hath its hands on its knees, (g) and its head bent down to its feet. The parts of an infant, are formed together, increased all together, not one part more, before, or after another, (h) But those that are great by jratuie, appear before those which are less. It seems to me, that there is no particular part first formed in the body ; but all parts are the beginning; all parts the end ; all parts first; and all last. The geniture, after it is mixed and retained, what day or hour soever it be avoided, doth all appear covered with a film, or crust, (i) (meaning the foetal membranes). For the geniture, being heated and puffed up, or fermenting, is compassed with a film, even as bread, when it is baked, is surrounded with a crust. A male unites its parts sooner, and is sooner articulated ; (k) but afterward it grows more slowly, and in a longer time. The male child is sooner formed in the matrix, because he is hotter •, (IJ for conformation is the work of heat. Males are generated of hot semen ; females of colder. This is the reason why a female is formed, and articulated ,later than a male; (n) because the semen of one is moister, and weaker, than the semen of the other. I TWINS. (p) Aph. 58. sectv. (t) The foetus when formed. De genitura. De mat. pueri. (h) DediaetaandDelocisuhomio, ^m) De diieta. (g) Cause of labour. (r) Lib. De natnr. pueri. Dc septiment. (s) De natur. pueri. (u) Pythagorean doctrine of numbers.' (i) Degenitur. Demorbo sacro et de aere. aquis, ei locis. (z) De Superfoctatidne. (o) De genitura. (6) Aph 62 sect. i. (e) De motbi mulier. (e) Dealimehto. (/) De natur. pueri. (g) De natur. pueri. (i) De natur. pueri. (/c) Lib. Epidera. (t) Heat the cause of conformation. (n) De natur. pueri.