liii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. • ' i- il autumn, nor at any other time, unless some disorder requires it. In a state of health it is unrfasonablp tP, bjeftd, pr take medicine, upon the principal #f preserving health, for such practices are most likely to produce diseases. Hippocrates, said, that purges are injurious to persons enjoying sound health, and during the dog days, both purging and vomiting are foOj violent for the purposes of preserving health ; especially on the reflection that vomits were ordered twice in the month a<tdi: the administration of hellebore, he himself acknowledges, sometimes produced convulsions and death. , ^ There arc many remedies and diseases, mentioned in the works of Hippocrates, which the moderns have not discovered, or imperfectly understood. There may be seen, however, many medicines in the materia medica, that daily receive the appro- bation of the moderns, for the very purposes they were anciently prescribed. Barley water, hydromcl, and oxymel, were the chief remedies in acute distempers. Barley water has continued its reputa- tion as art innocent diluter to this very time, and has been universally used in all ages. Oxymel is good in the peripneumony, and pleurisy; nor have the moderns discovered any drink superior to vinegar and water, for the cure of acute fevers. Castor, and myrrh, are still prescribed fortheir original intentions. Garlic and squils are proper for all affections of the lungs ; nor is there in the whole modern materia medica, any thing superior to the latter, for promoting expectoration. Allum is now used with success as an astringent and bracer, and spices are proper for the purposes Hippocrates recommended them. Fresh ox gall is a useful laxative to destroy worms, and for other uses. Cantharides are now given as a diuretic, but the manner the ancients gave them was hazardous ; nor are they calculated for internal use, though they have lately been esteemed by^ some bold practitioners. Long abstinence from food, in some respects, is proper, in others, perhaps, it was a prejudiced prac- tice. In dropsies, the diarrhaea, and asthmas, it was more judicious, than in the jaundice. The use of clysters was well un- derstood, and cupping was performed in similar cases, we now advise it. Elaterium as a purge, was exceeding rough, and by far too violent for cancers, ulcers, or sore throat. Frictions, and the cold bath were applied judiciously; the last maybe useful for relaxations, faintings, and to restrain the menses; though forthis last mentioned purpose it is rather an hazardous practice ; but perhaps, it wasless so in Greece, than in these colder climates. It is extremely dangerous to attempt cold bath-Tj ing, in diseases of the lungs, asthmas, and consumptions; this Hippocrates was apprised of, and therefore forbid it. Juniper berries is now an approved diuretic; and asses milk is given for the same intentions, it was anciently advised. The juice of sour apples is not improperin fevers ; and meconium, it now in common use. Origanum, or thyme, is much esteemed in the present practice ; nor was it likely to answer all the intentions for which it was prescribed. Eggs are now taken with ad- vantage, in coughs, and might have been generally useful for the cases in which they were directed. Tar, pitch, pepper, cerusof lead, and pennyro}'al, galbanum, rosin of turpentine, rose leaves7 and elder berries, have been advised in all ages for. similar affections. Scammony, tapping, whey drink, assafoetida, sulphur, and frankinsence, have been approved remedies in all ages. Botany was not cultivated in the time of Hippocrates, it seems be considered it of much greater importance to comprehend the administration of remedies, than to waste time in examining the nice distinctions of the different genera of. i plants; and certainly the performance of one great cure, is worth all the speculations on these subjects, that ever appeared in the world, c.xcept as a curious pai t of natural history. The using sternutatories in convulsions was not in some cases improper; but mandrake root, given internally, was a dan- gerous practice. The application of hot bags to the tendons, is not clearly understood ; and pepper^iuixed with honey scem^ a singular remedy for internal uses. In the dropsy, the practice of abstinence was not injudicious, before the symptoms were considerable, and the cough is certainly an unfavourable circumstance. The manner of discharging the water gradually, when paracentesis was performed, I perfectly corresponds with the opinions of all succeeding physicians. Bleeding in the dropsy was improper, but exercise tQ I produce perspiration, abstinence from fluids, and purgatives are highly proper at the commencement of this sluggish dis- : temper. It however frequently happens, that even when the dropsy is in a recent state, the patients being most commonly of * a corpulent habit, are possessed with such a listliness to action, such a fatal indolence, that they are rarely roused from inac- 5 tivity, to attempt the recovery by exercise. The cantharides given internally must have been extremely precarious ; and j though smart purgatives have their utility, both the hellebore and elaterium are too drastic, and more especially if the com- I plaint has been of long continuance. See my Treatise on Dropsies. I The opinions delivered on diseases of the lungs are accurate, as are the prognostics from the appearance of what is ex- i pectorated ; and the plan proposed for the cure of consumptions, is in most respects similar to modern practice, the ad- I p ministration