( *2 ) PLATE X. The Head and Neck, '1. .■ p * .. Name and origin. >e. Part of the oCcipitofrontalis, with the aponeurosis; from the inferior part of the os occipitis. J. Attollens aurem; from the aponeurotic expansion of the frontal muscles. , i n i c. Anterior auris; from the basis of the zygoma from a tendineous membrane of the. temporal muscle. d. Retrakentes auris; arises from the aponeurotic ex- pansion of the cervical muscles. — a. Trapezius, or cucuUaris; begins from the occiput, processes of the neck, and spinous processes of the the neck. b. Its tendinous junction. c. Venter carnosus latissimi. d. The tendon of this muscle, beginning with the serratus obliquus externus abdominis. SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Insertion, Under the lambdoid’ suture. Into the upper part of the ear, on the helix by means of a- tendori. In the beginning of the helix, to the outer part of the concha. Are affixed to the convex part of the concha. TRUNK. In the scapula and clavicla. a. Deltoides; from the clavicle and scapula. b. Infra spinatus ; from the parts below the spine of the scapula., Iiower down is the portion of the teres minor and major. c. Triceps extensor cubifi; from the neck of the scapula and outward part of the humerus. d. .Extensor carpi radialis longior; from the external condyle of the humerus. €. Extensor digitorum coynmunis manus ; from the exter- nal condyle of the os humeri. f. Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis ; from the outside of the ulna. g. Extensor primi internodii poUicis manus; from the ulna and interosseus ligament. h. Extensor secundi internodii poUicis; from the ulna and interosseus ligament. L Extensor carpi ulnaris; from the external condyle of the 03 humeri. J(. Part of the Jiexor carpi ulnaris ; from the internal condyle of the os humeri. Near the middle of the os humeri. In the neck of the os humeri. Is fixed to the olecranon. In the bones of the metacarpus. On the posterior part of the four fingers. On the outside of the thumb. In the upper part of the first bone of the thumb. In the last bone of the thumb. J. In the bones of the metacarpus, and the basis of the little finger. By a tendon into the os pisiforine and unciforme. INFERIOR EXTREMITY. h. Glutceus maximus; from the os sacrum and ilium. Below the greater trochanter. Part of the glutajus medius. c. Part of the tensor vagina; femoris. Fasus externus; from the outer side of the os seinoris. On the upper part of the patella. The longhead of the biceps fiexoris cruris, f. Purt of its short head. Semiteadiiiosus; from the protuberance of the os is-' chium. Gracilis, from the anterior part of the os pubis. ■ On the inner and back part of the tibia, or Lam. i. Pars vasti externi. k. Gastrocnemius externus ; from two condyles of the os "I femoris. V l. SoUeus, or gastrocnemius intemus. J m. Tendo Achillis, with the plantaris. n. Perona:us lougus; from the uppermost part of the fibula. o. Peronceus brevis; from the external and fore part of the fibula. p. Tendines extensoris longi digitorum pedis, Abductor On the heel they form the tendo AchiUis.’ In the second phalanx. In the external metatarsal bone. minimi digiti pedis. Action. Pulls the skin of the head back* wards. • ' To draw the ear upwards. To make this eminence more teiue. To draw back the ear. hlovcs the scapula in diflferent di- rections, according to the linet of its different fibres. posticus inferior, e. Part of tlie To rise the arm, with others. To draw the humerus backwards. To extend the fore arm, and to draw it a little back. To extend the wrist, and bring tie . hand backward. To extend the fore fingers. To extend the thumb. To extend the first bone of the thumb. To extend the last joint of the thumb. To extend the hand backward. To bend the hand, and to contract it. To extend the thigh. To extend the leg assisted by others. }To assist with others in bending the leg. ^To extend the foot. To bend with others the four small toes. ^To bend the foot outward.