( »89 ) spasm, or convulsion, and upon the vital nerves, it occasions inflammation, or fever. Diminished irritability, soon produces gangrene. Spasm, excites a spasmodic ischury, or impossibility of mak- ing water, or other sudden contraction. Paralysis causes a paralytic angina, and ischury, from a pa- ralysis of the bladder, or loss of motion in limbs. Pnereased sensibility causes pain. Diminished sensibility induces an insensible state, gangrene; when affecting the optic nerve, it causes amaurosis, and by affection of the auditory nerve it occasions deafness, of the lingual loss of taste. DISEASES AEISIKG FROM AFFECTION OF THE FLUIDS. From plethora hsemorrhages arise, either by usual, or unusual channels, true and spurious indamniatiuns. From keneangia tumours, become oedematous. From thickness, obstructions and tumours proceed. From thinness, inflammations, spots, haemorrhages, and ex- travasations. From acrimony, various diseases have their origin, as Acid acrimony occasions universal, or particular softness of the bones, carious and gangrenous tumours. Alkaline acrimony, causes an acrid thinness of the humours from which ulcers, inflammations, and hsemorrhages arise. Muriatic acrimony brings on rigidity and foul ulcers. Venereal acrimony occasions gonorrhea, floor albus, ulcers, ophthalmia, warts, nocturnal pains, nodes, swellings, and copper coloured eruptions. Scorbutic acrimony causes fungous ulcers, spongy gums, indurations of the legs, spots, and cracking of bones. Arthritic acrimony, produces arthritic tumours, and ulcers, which discharge a foul blackish ichor. Gouty acrimony, occasions gouty tumours ami earthy swellings in the great toe and fingers. Rheumatic acrimony, causes pains in the muscles, painful tumours, foul ulcers, caries, dryness and contraction of the limbs, sore throat and eyes, rheumatic tooth ach, rheumatic inflammations rarely become red. Arthrodynia follows. Scrophulous acrimony, produces scrophula in the glands of the neck, mesentery and groin, ophthalmia, swelling of the nose and upper lip, caries of the bones, and white swellings. Schirrous and cancerous acrimony, occasions schirrus and cancers. Carbunculous and pestilential acrimony, cause carbuncles and pestilential buboes. Putrid acrimony brings on mortification in tumours and wounds. Rancid acrimony, occasions erysipelas and caries of the r bones. Bilious acrimony, likewise produces erysipelas, and the shingles, or herpes. The acrimony of ulcers, being absorbed, occasions slow fe- ver, mctastatical tumours. The saburraof the prima; viaj-'frequently occasions ophthal- mia, the tooth ach, and inflammations of wounds and ulcers. From error of situation, true and spurious inflammations arise, or rednesses, without pain or heat. From retention of the perspirable matter, fevers, serous tumours, hydrocele, dropsy, and rheumatism arise. From retention of urine, the ischury, mortification of the bladder, rupture, cystocele, and the stone are oc- casioned. From retention of the feces, arc produced extension of the rectum, swelling beyond the anus, piles, oplitlialmia, sore throat, from too much blood being determined to the head. From retention of the milk, mastodinia, inflammation, and induration of the breasts, also lacteal tumours of the extremities have their origin. From retention of the menses or piles, haemorrhages and tu- mours, in various places, arc occasioned. From retention of the semen, spermatocele, sarcocele, and inflammation of the testis. From a too great excretion, or too profuse evacuation of blood, death, or oedematous tumours. From the excretion of semen, amblyopia, blindness, and se- minal weakness. From extravasation of blood, ccchymosis, spurious, aneurism and trombus. From extravasation of serum, oedema, serous tumours, and dropsy. From extravasation of lymph, lymphatic tumours. From extravasation of air, emphysema. From metastasis ol morbid matter, metastatic, or critical tumours arise. From congestion, or a violent motion of the blood to any part, haemorrhages, ophthalmia and amaurosis. Fiona stagnation of the fluids, putridity, or various degene- rations of the humours, as may be seen in cystic and hydropic tumours, stagnation of the urine, causes calculus. From a separation of principles, various diseases arise, as from a separation of the aqueous portion, oedema, or dropsy, from the oil lypomata, or obesity, from the chyle, lacteal tumours; from the earth, calculi, or earthy tumours; from the gluten, oedematous tu- mours; from secretion, of a nirtritions juice, saredma and polypi, probably have their origin. EXCITING CAUSES OF DISEASES. These are what excite the proximate causes, ox the causes of the proximate causes. C c c The