INTRODUCTION, See. XXll Dr. JiOjyLEY’i other Latin and English Works, ^c. T. Schola medicinjE universalis nova Historiam, anatomiam, pViysio- logiam atque pathologiam specialein continens, cum 68 tabulis aeneis auctore Gulielmo Rowley, M.D. of which the present work is an abridged translation. The Latin edition in two volumes, price 4/. 4i. Od. n. The Rational and Improved Practice of Physic, in lout handsome volumes, octavo, price 1/. Us. 6d. Interspersed with the author’s nu- merous preset iptons, morbid dissections, &c. &c. VOL. I. Contains treatises on female, nervous, hysterical, hypochondriacal, bilious, and cancerous diseases. Letters on medical vanity, and the abuse of hemlock. See. in cancers, Stc. with the cure of a cancerous womb, ulcer of the rectum, &c. VOL. II. On madness and suicide, convulsions and spasms, lethargy, apoplexy, and palsy; the difi'erent species of gout; and effects of the jnutialic acid ; new methods of treating the bite of mad dogs, <&c. VOL, III. On one hundred and eighteen diseases of the eyes; with cop- per-plates, e.xplaining the organs of vision, with all the chirurgical oncrations and remedies lor removing blindness. Sec. &c. The history aiiduseof electricity in various diseases, with the course of theneivcs, explaining the parts to be electrified, &c. with new ideas on pulmonary consumption. VOL. IV. On the cure of old ulcerated legs without rest, Sec. On the putrid malignant sore throat, with the mode of cure practised sue- cessfully at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmaty. The causes of death amongst children in the scarlet and putrid fevers, Sec. Medical adyice to the army and navy, containing the diseases of soldiers, seamen, &c. with English piescriptions; on gun shot wounds, &c. On diet, and on all the foods used in the world, adapted to invalids, different constitutions, ages, and countries, with their various applications in nourishing the body. Sec. III. A treatise on the causes and cure of swelled legs; on dropsies; and on the modes of retarding the decay of the constitution in the de- cline of life: with a copper-plate description of a new-invented instru- ment for drawing off the water in female dropsies, Sec. To which is added, a tract on the absolute necessity of encouraging the study of anatomy. Sec. to supply the army, navy, and country, with skilful physiciaos and surgeons, &c. Addressed to the legislature of Great Britain, price 3s. IV. The most cogent reasons why astringent injections, caustic bougies, and violent salivations in venereal affections, should be banished for ever from practice, w'ith mild and experienced modes and prescrip- tions for treating every species of the disease, either by mercury, or. alteratives, with the history of the origin, progress, and present state of infection for the use of young practitioners, to prevent, many evils lately introduced, Sec. and the management of urethral obstructions, &c. Sec. price 4s, V. A treatise on the hydrocepahtus, or watery head of children, with, m.iiiy cases cured by early discovering the symptoms of that otherwise licsttiictive disease, with dia,gnostics, prognostics,, and remedies ; to which are added precepts on nursing, and short rules for preventing and treating infantile complaints, price 2i. SHORTLY W'lt.L BR rUBLteitltW VI. Fcrmula medkamenterum used at the St. Mary-lc-bone Infirmary, with an exhortation to the students. VII. A description of the famous Ai>OTHF,osts HoMERt, or deification of Jlomer, a curious antique sculpture, the .sublime performance of Ari- chf.laus of PRtiNE, above 2000 years ago, dug out of the ruins of the palace of Claudius Drusus, 160 years since, placed in the palace of Co- lor.na, at Rome, and, during the French war, removed to London, where it may be purchased for j^SOOO, SHORT EXPLANATION, EXTR.ICTED FROM THE RATIONAL PRelCTICE OF PHYSIC. As the modes of reasoning adopted by the author, in many parts of these works, may appear new, particularly to those who arc under the influence of hypothetical systems, and not accustomed to reason logi- cally, it may be necessary to give a short explanation of the manner in which the reasonings are conducted. Mathematical, geometrical, mechanical, and many chemical hypo- theses, formerly and lately in vogue for constructing the various and visi- onary theories in medicine, in a great measure, are excluded, and facts, originating from the evidence of the senses, from ocular demonstrations, are exhibited to explain the ccurer of diseases, and to search for adequate remedies to remove those causes. First. The anatomical structure and pliysiology of the parts or func- tions, are explained indifferent treatises, byconuectod facts and reason- ings, as far as were thought expedient. Secondly. From the appearances u/i’e/'deaiA, the impediments and mor- bid affections that had happened in lilc, aie attempted to be ascertained by inductive reasonings. Thirdly. Propositions from these sources of true intelligence arc formed, in many instances, both theoretical and practical. Fourthly. From considering the origin and magnitude of disc'ses, ex- plained by the foregoing means, their stages, real and probable effects itxi the living human body, aie all the prognostics discovered, and what benefits may be expected from the ait of medicine in various diseases ; by which facts and reflections, rational expectations are encouiagcd, and rash boastings and irrational promises discountenanced ; medicine, thus.con- ceived, and practised, strictly adheres to reason and truth. Fifthly. By concentrating all the foregoing facts, and' considering, from long and past experience, the force, power, andi probable conse- quences of a disease, with its stages ; whether it be acute or chronic ; the age, sex, strength, and constitution of the- individual affected, are ascertained the powers and mode necessary for the removal of the causes of disease. Sixthly. In the election of remedies, those that are important, are adopted and prescribed, where they can be exhibited with safety and’ rationality to the patient, and palliative methods of treatment are never proposed, but in cases wherein radical cures cannot be with any hope of success attempted. Among the great variety of prescriptions for the rohsst and Jlorid, pale, and debilitated, irritable or more torpid, Sec. there are few which the author’s own expeiience has not proved safe and efficacious in t'ne cases, and, under the circumstances they arc recommended.* It has always been considered the duty of a physician, to act on clear principles and with energy, or not act, and to be always more solicitous to attack a dis- ease hy efficacious remedies, than to please the patient’s taste at the hazard of life, or the injury of the constitution. The ordering trjling saline and sioeetened draughts, when disorders demand the most decided and puwerful.practicc, IS a disgrace to the art,: sed est modas in rebus. The mind of a physician should be always directed, and ardently.ani- mated, to attack the causes ot disease, and be elevated superior to the difficulty medicine has to encounter. Timidity, or rashness, are equally dangerous in the treatment of many morbid affections : the former fre- quentl.v loses the fairest opportunities of saying life; the latter, ii.the companion of ignorance and empiricism. * There is certainly a great difference in the constitutions of different patients, some abound with serum, others with a superabundance of red paiticles in the blood, which form the palid and Jlorids the fatsuper- abound with oil, the lean not. 'Will any confined system or rrcubcade-. quate to this diversity i