Ixxxi HISTORY OF MEDICINE. ignorance and credulity first gave sanction to, without strict enquiry, increased in strength, h\- time, and gained such an ascendency over the minds of men, that nothing but an implicit faith in the most erroneous opinicnis, entitled any one to the appellation of learned ; and, in proportion as he believed, so was he accordingly considered a great philosopher. But lest wc should be thought rather severe, we now produce proofs in vindication of our censures. But according to the historical order, wc should say something concerning tlic immediate successors of Hippocrates. Thessalus and Draco were his sons, and Polybus, who was his son in law, have been mentioned as excellent physicians. To each have been attributed some of the writings of Hippocrates; but as we know little concerning them, except that his eldest son lived in the court of Archclaus, king of Macedonia. There are other disciples and scholars of Hippocrates; as , Prodicus, Dixippus, and Appolonius, and Ctesias, his kinsman, who are said to have been practitioners; but as none of their I productions have reached our time, wc pass them over, and produce the philosophical prejudices so injurious to the art, and [ first of Plato. Plato wrote several things relative to the theory of medicine, (g) He having supposed two universal principles of things, (h) God and matter. The first form that he supposed matter to take, was triangular; and that from these triangles, the four sensible elements were afterwards produced ; the fire, air, water, and earth, of which all bodies appeared to him to be compounded. i As for the human body, he was of opinion, that its first formation commenced from the spinal marrow; this was afterward jeovered with bone, and these bones with flesh, (ij Upon this presumption, he held, that links, which united the soul with I the body, were in the marrow, which he called the seat of the mortal soul, (k) The rational soul he lodged in the brain, which he said was a continuation of the marrow, and considered it as a soil purposely prepared to receive the divine semen. (1) As for that part of the soul on which depended generosity, valour, and anger, he placed it near the head, between the diaphragm and the neck; (m) that is to say, in the breast, or in the heart; in which he followed Pythagoras. He held that the lungs encompassed the heart, to refresh it, and to calm the violent motions of the soul, which was lodged there, as well by the refreshment it received from the air, in respiration, as from the liquor we drink; (n) which he supposed to fall, in part, on the lungs. This made one of the ancients to observe, that Plato gave posterity occasion to laugh, by meddling with that which was not his business. (o) ( This pbilosopbcr imagined another sort of soul, which desired not only meat and drink, and all that was necessary for the body, but which was the principle of all appetites or desires in general, (p) This soul was situated between the diaphragm • |and navel.It was quartered in the lowest part, and farthest from the head, that it might not, by its agitations and com- i Smotions, disturb the reasonable soul, (q) which is the best part of us, in its meditations and thoughts for the common jgoo<l. (r) These troubles and disturbances of the inferior soul, were excited by phantasms, or images, presented to it by jthe liver. The liver having been polished and made shining, that it might reflect the images which were communicated to it, 'to produce trouble, tranquillity, or pleasure, in the inferior soul, according as the liver itself is troubled by the bitterness of jthe bile; or sedate and calm, through the predomination of sweet juices, opposed to the bile, ("s) Besides what has been already said of the heart, and of the soul lodged there, Plato held the following notions concerning , it, The heart, says he, which is at the time the source of the veins, and of the blood, which whirls rapidly in all the parts' i of the body, is set as a centinel, or serjeant, (t) that when the choler is inflamed at the command of reason, upon the ' iccouiit of some injustice committed, (u) either without or within, by the desire or passions, presently all that is sensible m the body, disposes itself, by opening all its pores to hear its menaces, and obey its commands, (x) The opinion of this philosopher, concerning the manner of respiration, is no less peculiar. He believed that there was no l/acuum in the world; but that the air that escaped out of the lungs and mouth in respiration, meeting tliat which surrounds ihe body without, pushes it so, that it forces it to enter through the pores of the skin and flesh, and to insinuate itself into the y most \(e) The following is chiefly taken from Alcinous’s Platonic philosophy. Si'oj- xt (0 Formation of the human body erroneous j(ii) The soul absurd. (/) Marrow a soil for divine semen The sentimental soul. j<n) Lungs receive liquids false. (o) A. Gell. lib. 17. cap. 11. Macrob. lib 17 cap. 15. (p) Another soul. situation and use. (r) Common good ingeniously considered. |(i) The inferior soul reflecting images on the liver, in an extraordinary manner. (t) The heart a scrjeajrt. duty. ' tjje pores have the command of the passions.