( 1^2 ) THE TTSE. By the touch, we perceive 1. The hardiies^, or softness. 2. heat, or cold. 3. shape. 4. magnitude. * 5. distance. 6. number. 7. smoothness, or roughness. 8. weight. <>. motion, or rest of any body. THE TASTE IS A SENSE, By which we perceive the taste of sapid bodies. A sense seems to comprehend the whole; and a sensation, only a peculiar modification of a sense, capable of infinite variety.—We find many sensations, therefore, • in each sense. The nervous papillae at the apex, and on the margin of the tongue, constitute the primary organ of sense. Every body which contains salt, or any acrid particles, solu- ble by the saliva, is an object of taste. THE SPECIES OF TASTES ARE Salt, acid, lixivious, urinous, sweet, bitter, acrid, earthy, metallic, rancid ; hence, taste is simple, or compound, pleasant, unpleasant, or indifl'erent. The diversity of taste depends on the various irritation of the saline particles. THE PARTS, AUXILIARY TO TASTE, ARE . The tongue, which contains the nervous papillae ; and by its motion applies them to sapid bodies. The epidermis of the tongue, which moderates the sensation® , of taste. The saliva and mucus of the mouth, by which the savoury principle is dissolved; for all bodies are tasteless, unless, in a certain degree,_soluble, THE USE. By the taste, wc are induced 1. To cat and drink. 2. To distinguish wholesome from unwholesome things, 3. To know the flavour of various medicines. THE SMEEL IS A SENSE, By which we perceive smells. The nervous papillai, distributed on the pituitary membrane of the nostrils, constitute the organ of smell. Every body, which possesses a volatile principle, exhaling, and attracted by the nostrils, is an object of smell. THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF SMELLS ARE Aromatic, urinous, acid, putrid, cadaverous, stercoraceous. The things which arc auxiliary to smell, may be considered as follows : 1. The pituitary membrane, on which the nervous papillae are distributed. 2. Inspiration, by which odours are attracted. 3. The pyramidal shape of the nostrils, by which the odori- ferous particles are concentrated, retained, and pre- vented from going into the fauces. 4. The mucus of the nostrils, by which the nervous papillae arc kept moist. - USE OF SMELL, To regulate the take, and to perceive noxious and medical qualities. THE SIGHT IS A SENSE, By which we perceive the qualities of surrounding bodies, as far as can ■ be known by inspection, or looking at them. The retina of the optic nerve is the organ of sight. i The rays of light coming from a lucid or illuminated body, through the bulb of the eye, and falling upon the retina, constitute the object of sight. Light is a subtil solid body, passing from the sun, or any lucid body, by a very rapid motion, in right lines, which being carried to our eyes, are called the rays of light, THE PROPERTIES OF LIGHT ARE 1. The rays of light, which do not pass through an opake body, but arc reflected from it. 2. These rays pass through clear or transparent bodies; but are broken in the passage. 3. Rays of light, passing through a pellucid convex body, converge, and meet at a point, called the focus. 4. Rays of light, after passing through a concave body, diverge, and pass at a greater distance from each other, consequently have no focus. 5. Rays of light, reflected from coloured bodies, break into seven rays of different colours. The sight, therefore, is present, under the following circum-- ’ stances; 1. The rays of light, going from a visible object, pass into^ , the transparent and convex cornea of the eye, by the . density and convexity of which they are brought to a focus. 2. Thp