VI INTRODUCTION, &c; Ulppocrat.es to tlie present duy; but reserving to some future opportunity more on these subjects, it is time to give an account of the Schola Medkince, or school of Medicine, and to exhibit its ar- rangement, intentions, and utility, and in nliat it differs from all other medical writings hitherto published. PREFACE IN LATIN IS short, intimating that the Schola JMedkince comprehends what is useful from the earliest ages to the present period, extracted from all authors, ancient and modern; yet so concise, as not to bewilder the student’s mind in useless inquiries. What the author hath observed in his long study, practice, and reflection, is candidly, and without any reserve, introduced. .The third volume, written in Latin, and ready for the press, containing, in a new and brief manner, the whole practice of all the branches of medicine, the utmost extent and power of the medical art in curing diseases, w itlt every modern discovery that has been determined useful by facts, separated from those huge masses of speculation, opinions, and absurdity, which have constantly been forced into this practical art, will be hereafter published, if the present volumes be approved, and the author's life be spared to accomplish these intentions. It will appear in English. v THE HISTORY OF MEDICINE COIMPREHENDS, in an abridged view', all the writers of consequence from the earliest ages to the present time; their opinions, and the progress which physic has made, in so many ages, tow'ards the degree of perfection, that distinguishes the most refined modern medicine from all pre- .ceding times. In this part, in the English translation, is now’ added a comprehensive view’ of Hip- pocratic MEDICINE. At the end of the History is a Chronological Table from tlic beginning of the w’orld, as generally .received, to the present lera. This table is divided into columns, shew ing the times when the prin- cipal inventors and improvers of medicine lived; namely, from the creation of the world; before 'Jesus Christ, in what Olympiad of the Greeks, and how’many years from the building of Rome. By this Table may be discovered, when, and under w’hat reign or goverpment, the most eminent contributors to the art of medicine flourished; as likewise philosophers, princes, emperors, &c. THE CONSPECTUS. THEN ioWows <1 Conspectus sliewing the methodical arrangement of \he Schola Afedicinee, and a brief intimation of whatever the work contains. This Latin conspectus delivers, briefly, ^ the anatomy, physiolog}', &c. of the human body. PLATPIS IN THE HIST9RY OF PHYSIC. THERE are six plates in the History of Physic, which many may consider, unless antiquarians, more curious than useful. These are concisely explained, not in all instances, exactly correspond- ing with the Latin. There have been many medals and coins struck in honour of medical deities: the inscriptions still extant arc almost innumerable, cut in stone, and still preserved among the cu- ' . riosilies