( 6 ) PLATE IV. 4 Vvhen all (lie l>ones of tic bumari body are joined together it is called a Shkton* The Skeleton is called artificial, when the bones are connected by brass wires; or it is natural, when the bones arc prepared and united together by their natural ligaments. • The bones of the body are divided into bones of the head, trunk, and evtrennities. The bones of the head and neck. The bones of the head are the skull (cranium) and jaw- bones Cmorillep.) The cranium, or calvaria, is made of two tables, or la- mellae, between whicli is the diploe. a. Os frontis, curonalc, is on the fore part, called forehead. The os frontis, and all the other bones of the cranium con- sist of two tables, and contain a spongy substance between. Surgeons, in the operation ot the trepan, should well attend to the structure of those bones. b. Ossa syncipitis, or vcrticis, the bregma. Between a and i is a part of the coronal suture, the ossa bregmatis, or parietal bones, form, or constitute the uppermost and la- teral parts of the cranium. c. Part of the os squamosum, or squamous part of the tem- poral bone. 2. The mamillary process. d. Osjugale, or mala;, zygoma, or cheek-bone. e. A part of the superior maxillary bone with eight teeth.' The superior maxilla has thirteen bones and sixteen teeth. f. Maxilla inferior, or the lower jaw-bone. g. Seven vertebra of the neck with the cartilages. 3. The transverse processes. Of the trunk. The trunk consists of the dorsal spine,, bones of the breast, and the ossa innominata. h. Sternum, or breast-hone, has, in adults, one, two, or three parts; on the upper part it has a sinus, or furrow, for the wind-pipe; and on the sides i- The heads of the claxicules are articulated. On both sides are the superior seven ribs ^ the sternum has the shape of a dagger, on its point is the cartilago xipkoides, ensforniis. k. l. Costa, the ribs, are twenty-four in number, twelve on each side. m. Five vertebrae of the loins wdth the cartilages between. Superior e.Ttrcinities. The superior extremities are divided, I. in the humerus, or shoulder-bone, composed of the shoulder and clavicle II. the cubitus, the fore-arm, and is composed of the ulna and radius: III. manus, tliehand; which is again divided into the carpus, 7rtetacurpus, and the five fingers, digiti. i. 'I'he clavicles are crooked like an Italian s. the round end articulates with the sternum, and the flat with the acro- mion of the scapula. 10. Scapula, the shoulder-blades. If. Cervix scapula, or the neck of the shoulder-blade.' <j. Os humeri, the shoulder-bone, or upper bone of the arm; 11. Condylus internus. 12. Condylus externus. r. Radius lies by the side of the ulna, but is a little shorter. 5. Ulna, is aho called cubitus. 'I he cubitus is directed to the little finger; the radius to the thumb. t. Carpus, the wrist, consists of eight different shaped little bones. u. Metacarpus, four bones belong to it.. The bones be- tween the fingers and the carpus, or wrist, are named Jiieta- carpus. 15. Is the metacarpal bone of the thumb. w. The bones of the five fingers. The five fingers have three phalanges, or thirteen bones, besides the sesamoid little bones, under the articulations, or Joints. The inferior extremities. The inferior extremities consist; I. Of the ossa f'emoris, thigh-bones: ll. crura, the legs, divided into r/Ym, the large or shin-bones, the less bone, and patella, kncc-pan: III. tin; foot, is divined into tarsus, metatarsus, ami five toes. X. The femur, the'parts of which are; M. Caput, or the superior head, is uppermost in the fur- row of which is the round ligament inserted. 15. Cullum, or cenix, the neck is under the head. 4. Processus transversales. - n. 0$ sacrum, is composed of five vertebrae. o. Ossa innominata, called by Galen avavujua, are divided into ilia, ossa ischia, and pubis. The first, 5. Os ilium, is called by some Aayavcv, asviuvuv: the second, 6. the anterior, pubis, rvjg v’Sv;? dr«v. The third, 7- os coccygis; is'^i'ov and X vu vvpov. S. Qs hchianii-^ the circular appoa- ■«hx on the superior part is by some called spina iiii, or spine of the ilium. f). The inner cavity of the os Innomitialum, and the o.s sacrum, is called arc below the coll urn, or neck. 16. Trochanter major,'! 17. Trochanter minor, j 18. Condylus internus. jp. Condylus externus. 20. Patella, mola, lays on the femur and tibia, y. z. Fibula, in Greek vagiovy,. 21., Malleolus internus. 22. Malleolus externus. 23. Os caleis, calx, the bone of the heel. Between 58 and 24 are six other bones of the tarsus. 25. Metatarsus, has five bones. 20. The bones of the toes or the phalanges. - • The andenls have very well known the bone< of the human body, their figures and conacctions, as may bs seen by the Greek descriptions io the Midiii’u', extracted frorti Hippicntts, Rufes Ephesius, Calcnus, and Orihsiui, &c. \ I