ixi HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Tlio fluor albus is described in a lively, sensible, and natural manner; its treatment is rational, though the niethuds were confined, more through a deficiency of remedies, than a judgment in their administration. The consequences of a retention, or overflowing of the menses, are delivered with accuracy ; and the management of both, is reasonable and judicious; when vomits and the use of cantharides arc cxcepterl. 'J'he menstrual evacuation fretting the earth, or corroding the body of the female, does not correspond with truth ; and the combination of such a variety of un- couth, unpleasant remedies, is not agreeable to the simplicity observable in tlie treatment of other diseases. Suppositories, with cantharides, must have produced painful and distressing excoriations ; and if the cantharides came in I contact with the os uteri, they might do irreparable injury, by laying the foundation of a very fatal distemper. I In the immoderate uterine hemorrhage, covering the abdomen with sponge, after being immerged in cold water, was a sensible practice in Gieece; though highly exceptionable, and perhaps dangerous in this country. Pessaries arc useless; and vomits and purges after the profuse uterine hemorrhage ceased, were too irritating and violent, but nutritious, and gela- tinous diets, were highly proper. Hysteric aflections are frequently owing to suppressed menses, though they may likewise appear from various causes; I their treatment, during the paroxysm, is exactly agreeable to the modern doctrines; when pouring wine down the oesophagus i be excepted. The inflation of the stomach and intestines, was mistakingly called a distension of the uterus; and this unrea- I sonablc opinion, may be ascribed to an imperfect'knowledge in anatomy ; for those who knew the magnitude and situation of 1 the uterus, in an unimpregnated state, are well apprised of the impossibility of its being distended suddenly, or even enlarged gradually, except by pregnancy, or the schirrus, which last rarely happens. The pessaries in general, and particularly those containing a portion of cantharides, are highly improper ; those applied to draw, irritate, or relax the uterus, were exceedingly absurd. The os tine® being always closed in the healthful and unitu- pregnated state, could not admit of such medicaments, as every anatomist well understands. Though, to speak truth, this an • cient author cannot deserve censure for his unacquaintance with nice Anatomical distinctions ; the moderns, with all their refinements, are more blameable in this particular. It is a fact, easily demonstrable, and must be universally acknowledged I by all candid judges, that the os uteri will not admit any substance, exceeding in magnitude a hogs bristle, or a small probe, i so contracted is its aperture ; and yet, all the modern writers, and even the present race of practitioners, constantly prescribe I injections for the uterus. What a striking instance is this, of the credulity, indolence, and dangerous ignorance of phy- |i sicians, csteemcdly learned ? They are justly chargeable w’ith credulity and indolence, because, the positive impracticability 1 of injecting the uterus, seems not known: with an ignorance dangerous to society, because the least violence to the part, i proves destructive, most commonly to the woman. The methods to discover w hether a female shall conceive, are exceedingly superstitious, and seem more like the whimsical I notions of some antiquated matron, than the ancient founder of medicine. The trial, by fumigation, is ridiculously absurd; 1 though some sagacious commentators, through a bigotted zeal to the author, with a splendid show of reasoning, have en- deavoured to account for such ph®nomena. The signs that discover pregnancy, as the loathing of meat, and the suppression I of the menses; the opinion of an overmoist womb, or the fluor albus, being causes of sterilily, or abortion; and that w'omen I of a moderate temperatement are most fertile, are truths that daily experience confirms. I The experiment to discover whether a woman hath conceived, by giving a mixture of honey and water, is as ridiculous as the story of the fumigation; though this has been admitted, and learnedly accounted for by some learned commentators. The difl'erent colour of the countenances of the pregnant women, as determining whether a male or female child be conceived ; ' the notion that females are conceived, and lay on the left, but males oir the right side, (d) are all erroneous ; it is, however, I true, that the os uteri is closely shut after conc^tion. It may not be improper to. remark, that even though common obser- j vation falsifies, in general, the preceding doctrines, yet they have been raceived as true, by the females in most countries. The opinions concerning abortion are partly true; though there be frequent instances in which the menses aj)pear at their usual periods, during a state of pregnancy, either from a repletion, or an adhesion of the placenta, on, or near the internal part of the os uteri; and yet the child has been healthful, and full grown. r. The i (d) Perhaps this arose fromaa opinion that women hadtwo entrances to the uterus,like mares, or rabbits.