Ixxxii HISTORY OF MEDICINE most remote parts of the body, till it fills the place which the other left; (y) after which, making the same way out again, by the pores, it forces that without to enter by the mouth, into the lungs, in inspiration. We sec by this, that Plato con- founded transpiration with respiration; pretending, that both one and the other, were performed together, as it were, by two semicircles, (z) As for the flesh, he thought it compounded of water, lire, and earth, and a certain sort of sharp leaven, biting and salt. These arc some of Plato's thoughts of a human body, in its natural state. As for the causes of its destruction, which are diseases, old age, and death; he supposed, in the first place, which are about ours, dissolved and melt it continually; after which, every substance which gets loose and exhales, returns to the principle from whence it was drawn. He supposes, in the second place, that the blood, which is, according to him, a fluid matter, formed of the aliments, by a peculiar artifice of nature, which cuts and reduces them into small pieces, by means of fire, that rises in our stomach after the air or breath, (a) He supnosed that this blood, whose redness was an evident token of the impression of this fire, served to nourish the flesh, and generally the whole body, and to fill up the vacant spaces of it as it were, by a sort of watering, or general inundation. This being supposed, he maintained, that while we were young, this blood, abounding in all parts, not only supplied what was dissipated, or diminished, of the flesh, which, as was said, was perpetual; but after having filled up what was wanting, it furnished matter of increase to the mass of the body. Prom hence it is, that in our youth we grow and become larger; but when we are advanced in years, more of the substance of our body is spent than the blood can supply or restore; there- fore we diminish by degrees. Those principles of which our bodies consist, which Plato calls triangles, which in our youth were stronger than those of which the aliments were compounded, reducing them easily to a substance like themselves, become disunited and relaxed, by having so long endured the shock of other triangles. This causes old age, which is followed by death, especially where the triangles, whereof the spinal marrow consists, are dissolved and disunited; so that the bands by which the soul was fastened to it, are entirely broken, and let it loose, (b) As for diseases that attack us in all ages, and precipitate the usual time of death, he supposed that our bodies, being com- posed of the four elements before named, the disorders ot these elements were the chief causes of them, (c) These disorders consisted in the excess, or deficiency, of any of these elements, when they did not preserve the proportion of their fiist iiiixture, or when they changed place, leaving their own place for another. To explain himself more particularly, he adds, that the fire exceeding, produced continual or burning fevers; that if the air overbalanced, it gave rise to quotidian, intermitting fevers; if the water, tertian fevers; and, ifearth, quartans, (d) The earth being the heaviest of all the elements, must have quadruple the time to move itself in, that the fire has, and the rest of the elements in proportion, (e'j Plato did not confine himself to these generals only; but proceeded to the particular explication of the changes that bcfal our bodies in relation to the blood, and humours, wdiich arc the immediate causes of distempers, (j) While the blood, says be, maintains its natural state, it serves to nourish the body, and to preserve health. Hut, when the flesh begins to corrupt, cr to melt, and dissolve the humour, which comes from it, entering into the veins, carries this corruption along with it, and changing the blood in several manners, turns it from red to yellow, and bitter, or sour, or salt; so that, that which was pure blood, becomes part bile, and phlegm, or serosities. What we call bile, says Plato, is particularly produced from the dissolu- tion of the old flesh. It is an humour that assumes divers forms; and is very changeable, both as to colour, and taste; but it is chiefly distinguished into two sorts; the yellow bile, which is bitter ; and the black bile that is sour, and irritating. As for the phlegm, and serosities, or water, Plato seems to confound them, or to make but one sort of humour of them. The phlegm, according to him, is produced from the new flesh,, and the serosities, or waters, which are designed by the particular names of sweat or tears, are only the phlegm, melted or dissolved. In another place he seems to confound the phlegm, and serosities, w ith the bile, when he says, that what we call sour phlegm, is the same thing with the serosity of the black bile. But in the explication of the effects of these humours, he re- strains f?;) The air going through the pores of the skin. (5) Respiration and perspiration confounded together (“) nvf OAU fS/Myontro{-^ xl wnVfvavi (b) A curious opinion of tlie triangles. (c) Causes of diseases attributed to the excess or deficiency of the elements. (d) The fire exceeding, produces burning fevers; air, qutidian intermiuents; water, tertions ; earth, quartans, ft) Explainedcuriously. (/J Particular explication. ^