(' 3* } PLATE XXX. The Ganglions and Flexuses of Nerves, <^c. Figure I. Tills represents the brachial plexus of the right «idc of an adult, together with the ganglions , of tlie fifth, sixth, seventh, .and eighth pair of cervical, and first of the dorsal nerves, from which , the bnachial plexus is composed. Every plexus of this uerve was carefully excorti- cated of its first cellulous covering, to shew'the ^ funiculi of the nerves alone and naked, and their different thickness and manner of communication, 5. 6. 7. 8, Nerves of the four last pair of ccrvicals. ‘ ‘ 1. Nerve of the first pair of dorsals. aaaaa. Funiculi, which are made of the anterior roots of these nerves arising from the medulla spinalis, and they pass the ganglions of the posterior roots, nor do they unite to the posterior roots, unless after- wards these go out of their ganglions. . ' hbhhb. Funiculi, from the posterior roots. t ccc c. Ganglia formed from the posterior roots. ildddd. Trunks of nerves running together to form the' bra- chial plexus; of which the first, i. e. five cervicals, consists of one gross funiculus only ; but the others frequently communicate together, These trunks afterwards are implicated in a sur- prising manner, which are better understood by a figure than an operose description. c. Nervus supra scapularis. f. Axillary, or circumjlexal nerve. ' .S- External cutaneous, or musculo cutaneous nerve. h. Radial nerve. i. Median nerve with double root; viz. Ji. 1. Going out of the brachial plexus. m. Cubital nerve, n. Internal cutaneous nerve. POO. Arc other lesser nerves coming out of the brachial plexus indiscriminately, and without any names. Figure II. Is a portion of the median nerve, of which funi- culi being disjuncted, by the removal of the exter- nal cellular vagina; yet the mutual inosculations arc exhibited. They arc all delineated in their natur.al size, yet it was necessary to prolong some funiculi, and es- pecially those which connect the others transversely, in the delineation, to exhibit them clearly,at one' sight, yet some of the funiculi were obliged to be cut, eaaa. Are tubercles, to which many others may be seen, which arise from the medulla of the nervous funiculi, there propelling the vagina, which has less resistance. Figure III. - Are portions of the nerve of the ninth and tenth i pair of the cerebrum. " j Both were cut off near their exit from the cra- nium, and are of the right side. a. Nerve of the eighth pair, here consisting of many funiculi, of which one goes to form. b. The ne rvus pharyngeus, c. Here the nervus vagus swells, and consists of fewer i' • funiculi. Nervus laryngeus, arising from the vagus, and cut off, and reclined posteriorly. ee. Portion of the nerv’us vagus descending through the neck, conspicuous after its cellulous involucrum, or coat, is taken off’, so that the nervous funiculi may be seen in it, which are joined together in a multi- ' plied concatenation. g g. Nerve of the ninth pair, or lingual of the cerebrum, consisting of one only- gross funiclc, yet ramous, at the time it enters the tongue. This nerve coheres | with the vagus, as well through the cellulous, as small nervous funiculi, which are apparently cut. h. Nerve from the ninth pair, called the descendens, cut off, having many roots from the ninth pair, of which (’ some are the beginning of the lingual nerve, &c. ' V * Figure IV. Is a similar portion of the tenth nerve and ninth pair of the cerebrum from the right side, but taki'/i from another subject, which is here given for the sake of variety. a. Nervuj^vagus, consisting of three funiculi. b. Nervus pharyngeus, from which one funiculus de- scends, and below unites with the trunk of the eighth pair. c. Nervus laryngeus. d. Here the nervus vagus consists of one funiculus only, and that large and uneiiually round. €. A portion of the nervus vagus descending through I the neck. f ff. Nerve of the ninth pair of the cerebrum, or lingual, making one funicle only, ramous towards the tongue. g. The nerve called descendens, from the ninth pair of the cerebrum, of which the superior c.xtreinity cut away, was united with the nervus vagus. If we attentively consider the nature of the nexu*, we shall easily be persuaded, that this nerve ought to be called, not less ascendensy than descendens.