CONNECTION WITH FIVE BONES. INTERNAL CAVITIES ARE f 11* ) J' 1. With the parietal bones. J 2. occipital. J' 3. sphenoid bones. ' i! 4. jugal bones. (i 5. inferior maxillary. SUBSTANCE, 1j The squamous portion consists of an internal and external table, with diploe between them. The mamillary portion is cellular; and the petrous portion is firm and compact. USES. i To contain the middle lobes of the brain ; part of the cere- ( belluin, and organ of hearing; likewise, to form the |l temples and base of the skull. I -— THE SPH/ENOID BONE. j SITUATION. In the middle of the base of the skull, SHAPE. i Various: it is compared to a bat, with extended wings. j DIVISION, I Into body, and apophyses. external surface, which is outside of the skull, j internal surface within the skull, THE EXTERNAL PROTUBERANCES ARE 1. Sphoenoid spine, which is connected with that bone of the nose, called Vomer. 1 2. The greater wings, which are divided into the temporal I and orbital portion, I 3. The pterygoid apophysis, which is situated at the base 1 of the superior part, and forms two smaller wings. 1 4. The little hook in the internal wing. 5. The spinous apophyses, which are near the spinous fo- ramina. 1 INTERNAL PROTUBERANCES ARE .1. The less wings, which form the upper part of the inter- nal orbital fissure. 2. Two anterior, and two posterior clinoid processes, 1 which are the corners of the etlla Turcica, or Turkish I saddle. I EXTERNAL CAVITIES ARE j 1. Sphoenoidal pituitary sinuses, which are in the body of ! this bone. 2. The foramina of the pterygoid canal, which are at the origin of the pterygoid apophyses, by which thd*recur- rent branch of the fifth pair of nerves returns into the skull. 1. The sella turcica, which is a depression between the four clinoid apophyses. 2. The optic foramina, through which the optic nerves pass; and in the middle of each nerve there is a central artery, 3. The superior orbital fissures, through which the third, fourth, first branch of the fifth, and the whole of the- sixth pair of nerves pass out; likewise, the internal or- bital artery. . 4. The round foramina, by which the superior maxillary nerves pass. 5. The oval foramina, giving passage to the inferior max- illary nerves, 6. The spinous foramina, by which the spinous artery enters into the cavity of the skull. CONNECTION WITH NINE BONES. 1, 2. 3, 4. 5, 6. 7. 8. 9. With the frontal bone, ethmoid, parietal bones, temporal, jugal. superior maxillary. palatine. vomer, occipital bone by cartilage. USES. Forms the base o^ the skull; assists in the formation of the orbit, and pituitary sinus. ETHMOID BONE. SITUATION. Anteriorly in the base of the skull, and upper part of the nose. SHAPE. Cube-like. DIVISION INTO SIX SURFACES. Superior, toward the cavity of the skull. . Inferior, projects into the cavity of the nose. Anterior, near the frontal sinuses. Posterior, connected to the sphoenoid bone. Two lateral, right and left, which form the internal part of the orbit. THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL PROMINENCES ARE 1. The crista galli, which divides the internal sui-face into two parts, and forms a point of adhesion for the falci- form process of the dura mater. 2. The