IXTRODUCTIOX, &c. XVll give an exact description of the parts viewed, but likewise their connections, uses, SiC. Tiie result of the niost tedious and laborious study is contained, frequently, in a short sentence, or self-evident proposition; thus is reduced, into a small compass, all that is necessary to be well known or remembered, w^hen applied to the medical, chiriirgical, or ohslttric art. By these means hath a few pages contracted what is necessary to be comprehended in anatomy, except, that the nerves, their ganglions, &c. have required longer descriptions. Besides this concise and useful arrangement, there is an abridged anatomy and physiology, containing the whole modern knowledge. To render, however, the Latin work important, it contains a more diffusive description, for the us§.^of lecturers, teachers, or professors, planned and executed in such a manner, that all which is useful in the large volumes of anatomical wTiters, &c. will be found in this work; without that prolixity for which some authors and lecturers have been so justly censured, by all w’ho would wish to facilitate instruction, and render the deepest erudition of the art accessible to all capacities. To all junior students it may be an introduction previous to hearing lectures, and afterward, the companion of the dissecting room; to those who have passed through their studies, it may prove a very concise and useful recapitulator, by the exhibition of those anatomical preparations and facts, from which all actual and demonstrative knowledge w'as acquired requisite for successful practice. Credulity, the parent of error, will, then, no longer pervade the science. The PRACTICAL APPLICATION of SCHOLA MEDICINiE. I. For obtaining anatomical knowledge and physiology. On view'ing the print, with or without anatomical preparations, let the engraving be examined, or compared with the real subject, and the iw'ritten description, connection, and use of the part, be read in Schola Medicince: by this procedure, it is impossible not to easily comprehend, in a very short time, the anatomical structure, situation, and use of every part of the human body.* II. In physiology, let the pupil read the description and use of any part or function in the first column, and the scholia, or reasoning, if any, in the second column, by which is readily acquired the nature, action, power, and utility, of any part, or parts, during life. III. In pathology, the knowledge of the causes and effects of diseases will be easily ascertained, by directing the eye to the third column of any part, where will be found the appearances, from •' dissections, *■ Words and things are easiest taught, and best comprehended, together. The attainment of all languages, arts, and sci- ences, is quicker acquired by such means, than by the common slow methods of communicating knowledge, which oftener ilarken than enlighten. Descriptions, however well expressed, cannot convey clear ideas of diseases so immediately, as a view of the sick. At the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, I have classed disorders in a new manner, in separate wards, and on the door of each is written male, or fe?nale, pulmonic,fever, chronic, small-pox, chirurgical, venereal, casual, childrens, covakscent, SfC. SfC. The name at the entrance gives the genus of the disease, and the numerous sick, within each airy ward, give the individual va- rieties of every species. The prescriptions taken, in the medical department, amount annually to many thousands; which e.v- tensive practice, arranged in the foregoing manner, affords pupils a rapid opportunity of comprehending the routine of medical practice, when united with other advantages. Mr. fTAifc, obligingly attending to many hints on the common defects in tlie structure of hospitals, delivered by me, has displayed an uncommon judgment in the plan of this humane infirmary, calcu- lated to answer all ‘ the beneficent purposes of the noblemen and gentlemen, who are guardians of the poor of this mo.st opulent and liberal quarter of London.