( 194 ) straining, also' hoarseness and sore tliroat from ex- treme action of the larynx. A kind (>f v:atchmai in the Indies, that call the hoUrs in a j)arlicular voice, mostly become blind. Standing workmen, also attendants of the king, and the sootlisayers'of the ancients, who stand for the whole day, had varicose feet, and at last oedema. Seckntari/-v:orhntn, also the literati become subject to the piles and costiveness, by compressing the iliac vessels when silting. In fact, all workmen, who are exposed to a fmtid atmosphere are bad-sighted and cachetic, therefore ulcers in them arc diflicnlt of cure. PASSIONS OF THE MIND. J’axsions are ideas impressed on the mind with great violence, whicli are succeeded by involuntary motions. It is not a diaphonia, but extreme pleasure, or displeasure pro- duces these ideas ; passions,arc therefore, divided into, ylgrccable, which we desire to come to pass, as pleasure and love. Disagreeable, which wc hate, as anger, hatred, envy, sorrow, fear, terror, and shame. 1. Pleasure, by increasing the bloods motion, does mischief to inflammatory parts, and where a considerable artery is Wounded, it may cause death. 2. Love, or the desire of venery in both sexes, causes an increased flow of blood towards the genitals, whence proceeds inflammation of the penis and testicles, which may either form or increase spermatocele. 3. ^Ttgcr by increasing the blood’s motion, sometimes bursts a blood vessel in the brain, or, lungs, causes inflam- mation of a wound and haemorrhage, may produce a severe fever, the bite of a man, or animal, who is mad has brought on hydrophobia and madness: anger by disturbing the bile frequently causes erysipelas. 4-. Sorrow brings on schirrus by weakening the nerves and vessels, it also occasions cedematous tumours. 5. Tear suddenly relaxes all the muscular fibres, hence by relaxing the sphincter, it causes an involuntary dis- charge of urine, great fear first brings on fainting, afterwards a greater inflammation of a wound follows. 6. Terror produces spasm of the muscles, hence, in wounded persons especially, it occasions tetanus, by terror vessels contract, by which there is little haemorrhage during surgical operations, which some hours after follows more abundantly. Terror frequently produces schirrus, or changes it into can- cer, it can also make slight wounds mortal, for men have been known to die of very inconsiderable wounds, on account of terror. 7. Shame causes blushing, hence, it occasions a determina- tion of blood to the face. THE LONGING OF A PftEGNANT "WOMAN. woman can occasion marks in the foetus. I am of, opinion that no new organic part which did not pre- exist can be formed, nor any i>art already formed be destroyed, by the force of imagination, although wo are not able to deny, but that there may be some power of the imagination over the foetus; those marks seem to be formed by a preternatural evolution of the embryo, or some unknown cause. 'I’licre are, how- ever, some strong presumptive evidences, that frights &c. have been the cause of marks. TOO MUCH EXEUCISF. OF THE SENSES. Exercise of the internal, or external senses may be improper by excess, or defect. Too much application of the brain, as in long study, brings on debility of the nerves, and causes a great deter- mination of blood to the head, therefore it is hurtful in wounds of the head, and diseases of the eyes. Extreme exercise of an organ of sense, leaves debility in the organ, and occasions a determination of blood to it, thus from looking too long on an object, debility of sight, redness of the eyes and amaurosis, from long custom of hearing loud sounds, we become deaf. SLEEP. Too much sleep relaxes the fibres, and brings on a pituitary diathesis of the humours, hence it disposes the habit to oedema. WAKING. Too long being awake hurts the eyes, consequently a redness is observed. DIVINE POWER. The ancients, in almost every country, believed, that de- structive evils proceeded from an angry god ; but it is a hard thing-that God, who endeavours to bless all men, should be made the author of diseases in ge- neral; therefore such notions are superstitions. INFERNAL POWER, OR WITCHCRAFT. It IS merely a fable, and inconsistent to suppose, that the magic witches, or wizards, by making a bargain with the devil, can afflict men with diseases at pleasure; for the diseases which malevolent men sometimes cause are brought on by their natural disposition, or habits. Credulity, even in governments, until lately, countenanced these absurdities, and many poor in- nocent old women have been drowned, or burnt for witches; superstitio ridiculusa ! PROGRESSIVE EXTERNAL DISEASES. Thus from wounds, or abcesses, fistula, frequently are causes, or from erysipelas of mortification. PROGIIESSIV'E INTERNAL DISEASES. It is yet doubted whether a Strong imagination of a pregnant Internal diseases frequently deposit their matter