_ xxviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE TWINS. TWINS are caused by the semen being divided equally, and carried to both sides of the uterus, (o) If from both parents, masculine semen issues, then are two males generated; (p) if feminine semen, then two females. If both masculine, and feminine, then of the masculine is a male conceived, and a female of the feminine. Moreover, twins that are both males, or both females, do, for the most part survive, (q) But if they prove a male, and a female, the female does seldom live, or at least is very weak ; because it is not formed and perfected at the same time wherein the male is formed and perfected. The woman, who is pregnant with twins, (r) commonly fails in labour of both infants in one day ; and if they be of one sex, they are contained in one membrane. There are three reasons why twins have a great likeness to each other, fij First, the places wherein they receive their augmentation, are equal; whether they be conceived on the right or on the left side of the matrix: because, by a won- derful providence of nature, the right are equal to the left, that so the whole body' might be equally balanced. Again, be- cause they are conceived together. Lastly, because they are the same elements : for they suck the same blood, and enjoy the same vital spirit, which they draw from the mother, by the umbilical vessels. OF MOLES, OR FALSE CONCEPTIONS. CONCERNING the conception of a mole, this is the truth : fwhen a great abundance of blood clogs a little ill- disposed semen, there cannot be a true, orlegitimate conception ; yet the abdomen swells as though the female was pregnant. This is the certain and greatest sign of the mole, or false conception, if no milk appears in the breasts. A woman may bear a mole, two or three years. . ON SUPERFOETATION. IN his book Epidemics, there is related a remarkable example of superfoetation in a woman of Larissa, who the fortieth day after the delivery of a legitimate child, (or one born in the seventh month) voided another preposterously conceived. Superfoetation happens to those women, the mouth of whose wombs, after their first conception, is not close shut, (x) Terpida, a woman of Doriscus, (a city of Thrace) when she had gone, with twins, five months, by some mischance suf- fered abortion, (y) The one issued forth, presently, compassed with a membrane; the other she carried forty days after. A woman pregnant with twins, if either of her breasts fall and grow loose, she will miscarry with one of her children by abortion. (zj If it be on the right breast, of a male, if the left breast, she will miscarry of a female. ON THE NOURISHMENT OF THE FCETUS. THE foetus in the womb gathering its lips together, (aj suckethout of the mother’s womb, and draws both aliment, and spirit to its heart; when the mother respires. The first aliment is through the abdomen, by the navel, (b) In the middle of the flesh, is the navel separated ; (cj by which the infant respires, and acquires its increase. The navel is the passage for the air and aliment to sustain the infant, and is the only ingress by which it cleaves to the mother; f'dj by this means is the foetus made partaker of those things that are received into the mother's body, ("ej When the infant is born, the midwife ties the navel string, as being no more necessary for nourishment; (fj and then opens the mouth to shew it another way, by which it should receive nourishment. A woman (0) De dixta. (p) JIow twins ore caused, ^«) Reasons why twins have a resemblance. (1) De Superfoetatione. (y) Lib. Epidem. lib. 7, (6) De nutritione. (c) Pe aatur. pueri. (e) The child nourished by the navel. {f) De diteta and De nator. pueri. (t) Dediaeta. (r) Apli. 38 sect. v. (d) De octime strinatu. (f) De natuia pueri. (r) De superfoetatione. («) De morb mulier. ^ (a) De pringiiil^