HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixxv ! ON HIPPOCRATES, HIS MORAL SENTIMENTS, CHARACTER, &c. THUS having delivered ihe Hippocratic methods of treating diseases, it may be naturally expected that we say something conccrninii the author himself. Ancient history informs us, that he was lineally descended from the god of physic, the Greek ^Esculapius. But the fabulous part of the Greek, and other ancient histories, are so exceedingly dubitable, as we can only refer to the fragments of authors, whose original works did scarce reach the age even of our venerable father of medicine, we beg permission to decline entering into discussions concerning our author’s pedigree. For, leaving such, and many other like ! curious enquiries, for the amusement and contemplation of others, we only propose reciting such anecdotes of our author, as ap])car most agreeable to truth. Hippocrates, was said to be contemporary with Socrates; and those excellent historians, whose works will be ever read I with pleasure, Ileroditus, and Thucydides. He studied eloquence under Gorgias, the Leontine; and for the sciences, he I being naturally fond of study, and of a noble family was most probably a disciple to the greatest preceptors of his age. ! In one part, he says, after understanding the sciences of mediehie, it is expedient to travel, and visit foreign cities, and t countries, if he would be something more than a physician in name, and support the reputation of his profession by his j actions, as well as his words, (p) And what can more effectually conduce to a general knowledge in medicine, than exact ! certainty in the diet, customs, diseases, and methods of cure, in different parts of the world ? It enlarges the mind, removes the narrow prejudices of medical education; and exhibits, to a mind capable of instruction, a comprehensive view of nature, and the art. For, as this excellent author remarked, ignorance, when proceeding from a want of experience, is but a sad stock for those who are in possession of it, and an unfortunate incumbrance by day and night. He travelled into Macedonia, Thrace, and Thessaly, and indeed all through Greece; curing not only particular persons, but whole provinces. He visited Larissa, Cranon, Aenus, Oeniades, Pherae, Elis, Perinthus, Thasus, and Olynthus. In the tour of these countries, he made the principal observations contained in his Book of Epidemic Diseases. Ambassadors were sent from the Illyrians, to intreat him to remove a pestilence which ravaged through the whole country. He was readily disposed to assist this people; but first informing himself of the winds at that time predominant in Illyria, of the heat of the season, and of every circumstance pro- ceeding the contagion ; he was sensible no remedy would cure the distemper, and therefore declined the journey. But fore- seeing that the pestilence, would soon make its appearance in Thessaly and Greece, by the same winds, he immediately dis- patched his two sons, Thessalus, and Draco, with his son-in-law Polybus, and several of his pupils, to different jilaces with necessary instructions, and went himself to the assistance of the Thessalians, from whence he passed to the Dorians, and j thence to Phocis, visting Delphos, where he offered up prayers and sacrifices, and passing through all Bajotia, made his ap- I pearance at Athens, using his utmost endeavours to relieve the afflicted of all ranks, without any' reward, except the internal i satisfaction arising to a great and generous mind, from the consciousness of a voluntary service to the community. Untainted with that most unhappy of vices, an insatiate love of wealth, and not depending on the art for a support, he liberally assisted, and never refused his advice, and comfort to the poor and friendless. He observed, that a physician should not be ashamed to receive information from the meanest people, of remedies confirmed by experience: for it was by this means, he imagined, the art obtained improvement; and being collected together formed one entire body. It was his opinion, that, to arrive at any considerable knowledge in physic, the following conditions were necessarily requisite. A natural aptness, means of in-, struction, study, afid application from youth, adocile and sagacious wit, diligence, and a long observation. If ever a man was superlatively blessed with extraordinary powers of mind, means, and a thirst after medical knowledge, it was Hippocrates, who possessed, in an eminent degree, all that sagacity and penetration, which constitutes the true physician, (q) He says, that a physician should visit his patients frequently ; but ought never to warrant the success of a medicine, for the ablest physicians are deceived by the similarity of cases; (r) and obscure and doubtful diseases are judged of, more by conjecture than art. (s) Those who blame physicians for the death of their patients, have as much reason to blame the sick person; but W'hy should we not impute death to the incurableness of the disease } (t) Not that physicians are never in faiait; those who are least so, ought to be most esteemed; but it is difficult to find one so judicious as is requisite, (u) Some (p) Lex. [q) At the St. Mary-le-bone Infrmary, it has been fully proved, how excellent is early instruction, in the different branches of the art, ^r) Lib. Epid. (s^ Epid. lib. VL (t) De arti. («) l)e prisoa mcdicina.