( >01 ) PLATE LI, Omenhm. I Figure I. ^ ince the figures of the omentum majus alone, and the gastro • I colic part of it, arc represented by the ancients, as in I Garengeofs Splanchnohgia, Tom. vi. which exhibits the t 4Mientum minus, or little omentum, without exact limits, and i does not appear according to Nature; it will not be useless, I therefore, to give another figure, as likewise another de- scription. A, The concave reclined part of the liver, so that the margin, which was inferior, is anterior; and the anterior, is now superior. B. Vesicula j'ellea, or gall-bladder, is I commonly shorter, in young subjects, than the liver. C. Vena et fossa umbilicalis. D. Lobulus, improperly so called by the eminence of which is conspicuous ' through the little omentum. E. Stomach, the anterior curvature, of which appears, but covered with projections of the inflated omentum. E. Arteria et vena gastro-epi- I ploica dextra. G. The seat of the pylorus. H. The apex of the spleen projecting anteriorly into the cavity of the (i omentum, placed between the stomach, and intestinum ( colon. I. Ligament, which sustains the spleen, different (from the other, not attached to it, but moving freely, which is, for the most part, the superior situation of the j. left mesocolon, yet not unfrequently, rather of the trans- ' j verse, annexed to the’peritonanim to the seat of the tenth, I eleventh, or twelfth rib ; to this ligament, the. omentum is ! connected, yet, for the greater part, it is white and firm, . I and the transverse situation of the spleen arises, principally 1 from that connection. K. Omentum majus, commonly I cnWeA Gastro-colicum, the tcr7uinations oi it are: the supe- \ rior, and anterior, from the whole curvature of the sto- mach, inferior, and posterior, from the greater part of the transverse colon: the inferior limit is, when the anterior gastric lamina meets with the posterior colica, s.—This, in , children, is almost to the umbilicus, or navel; in adults, it descends much lower, the fatter the person is, even to the pubis. The left end, as well as the middle part of the 1 spleen, receives vessels, as well as the ligament, I. into , which the omentum degenerates, as welt as the colon. I The right termination is with difliculty expressed by the line L. For the omentum either terminates the middle of ' the stomach, near the pylorus, or from the pylorus, never i more to the right side; and from the accession of the gastro-epiploic vessels, before the mesocolon, and runs to the colon by a descending right line, or one inclining ob- i liquely to the left, and there the sac of the omentum ter- minates. L. The line of separatum of the omentum from ' the mesocolon. IM. The origin of the gastro-colic omentum ' from tlie anterior curvature of the stomach, from which the anterior lamina goes out. N. Conglobate glands, in j this line adjacent to the origin of the omentum. O. The ' line of the origin of the omentum magnum from the iiilesti- num colon : s. lamina posterior. P. Left end, or fnis coccus of the omentum. Q. Omentum minus of Winsloui, or a more slender membrane, which beginning is formed from a fossa of the ductus venosus, to the transition, or passing of the hepatic artery, there continued to the membranes surrounding hepatic vessels, which I have said, are continued beyond the duodenum to the mesocolon, de- generating in the end a little into tlie ligameatum hcjratico- cesophageum, and passing the lobe of the liver, it emits itself into the smaller curvature of the stomach, la the cavity it has the lohulum, or little lobe, and the nudated lumbar glands. R. Omentum colicum, the constant ap- pendix of the great omentum, which, from the end of the colic line, L. to the end of the transverse mesocolon, and sometimes a little beyond, fronr the intestine colon, not having touched the stomach, from a double line, it pro- ceeds, similar in magnitude, lying on both sides, looseljt on the intestines, and, on the little lobe, it elegantly termi- nates. This portion is not seen, which cedes to the great, so that it is larger than the smaller portion. In the en- trance of the omentum, which the represcntati«n hath not admitted, some things are to be added to Winslow’s de- scription, There is an hiatus, or interval, which, from a narrow beginning, and long tract, between the biliary vessels, and continued vena portarum, anteriorly situated, and between the posterior depressed lobe of the liver is re- ceived, which the hepatic vessels excavate, and which the ancients considered a right vena portarum. Besides, a farther continued lunated hiatus to this way, discovered by Winslow, through which air can be equally admitted to the cavity of the smaller omentum ; the extreme porta of the liver, which I have said, from the opposite nearest, to the inferior part, but distinct, is the ultimate radix of the mesocolon, which passing the pancreas, goes immediately to the descending duodenum ; anteriorly, it is a fasciculus of the hepatic vesseds, behind, the nudated peritonaeum, smooth, and equal. The vena cava lies a little to the right. S. Part of the mesocolon, between the right limit of the great omeutuni, and conjunction ot the colon with the duodenum. Figure II. Pancreas. a, Glaiuls, secrete^ a peculiar fluid, b. Excretory ducts, convey the fluid from every gland into a common duct, called Ductus Pancrcaticus Comnumis. c. Ductus pan- creaticus, from the small ducts running together through the middle of the pancreas, passes to the duodenum. d. The place where the pancreatic juice is mixed with the bile. e. Aperture, through which both liquors flow into the duodenum. D d