( 177 ) » At the time of puberty, the voice is also found to become graver ; a inoss-like hair springs up about the pubis ; semen is secreted in the testicles, and venereal desires are excited; juvenile audacity is experienced by the timid youth; the ingenuity and memory are in a great degree of perfection: and, at the twenty first year, both sexes cease to grow taller; the beard comes on the chin , and hairs on the axilla. FIFTH, OR ADULT AGE, Lasts from the twenty-first to the thirtieth year; all the members become more firm and perfect; also, the teeth, called dentes sapientiaj, are found to arise.— The male sex now become marriageable; but the female were fit for marriage at the latter end of the juvenile age. SIXTH AGE, OR MANHOOD, Wliich continues from the thirtieth to the fiftieth year, or until baldness. In this stage of life, the utmost strength of body and mind is observed ; the catamenia ceases about the forty-fifth year; and women be- come incapable of bearing children. SEVENTH, OR OLD AGE. From the fiftieth to the sixtieth year, man begins to grow old; the hair becomes grey; the sight and hearing are diminished; proper names are, with difficulty, retained in the memory; the venereal desires are less; and many die about the sixty-third year, EIGHTH, OR DECRIPED AGE, From the sixtieth to the seventieth year, or longer, in which 1. The body becomes lean, rigid, and bent. 2. The skin is opake, and full of wrinkles about the fore- head. 3. The hair becomes grey, and the head bald. ♦. The cheeks are pale. i. The muscles are tough, hard, and almost tendinous; the ligaments are rigid; the bones liable to break ; the sutures of the cranium obliterated; the cartilages and tendons ossify, 6. The teeth become loose, raised up, and few in number. 7. The heart is proportionally smaller, weaker, and less irri- table ; the small vessels aic fewer, and the larger I ones diluted. S. The brain and nerves are drier, less irritable, and sensible. 1). The eyes become less convex. 10. The glands of the testicles and ovaria waste away. 11. The vital actions become more tardy; the pulse, whids in infancy, beat one hundred and fifty times in a minute; in advanced age, is scarcely fifty—the heat of the body decreases. 12. The animal actions and muscular power diminished by rigidity : the joints tremble, the knees totter, the feet frequently stumble, the external senses are dull, and the internal diminished, the memory is weak, and the mind forgetful. ‘ 13. As to the natural actions, the appetite is small, digestion slow, and a smaller quantity of chyle is carried into the blood, on account of the fewness of thelacteals; hence, there is little nutrition; all the ^secretions are diminished, from which follow decrease of the body, Icanncs, paucity of humours, which are acrid, and loaded with earth. 14. The sexual actions, at last, cease; the male no longer secrets semen, nor has erection ; and the female has no menstruation ; they become barren. ^ DEATH. The natural mortality of man is estimated, that one in thirty- six dies every year, generally. Praeternatural death differs—as to age, sex, climate, diseases, and accidental causes. The proximate cause of a natural death is a gradually in- creasing rigidity of the fibres, by which the irritability of the heart and motion of the blood gradually cease. The soul then leaves the body, and goes to where GOD has assigned it, though unknown to man'. The signs of death are—loss of pulsation in the heart and arteries, cessation of respiration; the sensibility, and irritability of every part is so far gone, that they cannot be recalled, the body becomes cold and stiff; soon afterwards a peculiar cadaverous fbetor is exhaled from it. The lot of a cadaver, or dead person, is to be buried in the earth, in which it returns, by putridity to the princi- ples of which it was composed. The soft parts soon pass off, or rnix with the earth ; but the bones, which require more time to be deprived of their gluten, are longer of dissolution. I Z z I ADDITIONAL