tlic fifth and sixth pair, about to run in the cavity 15. Ramulus of the first thoracic ganglion, which, as- of the thorax to the nervus phreiitcus. fjL. Two surculi of the anterior ramus of the first pair, running to the ganglion cervicale primum. f. Ramulus, proceeding downwards from the anterior ramus of the first pair to the descendens of the ninth pair. <r,T. Two surculi of the anterior ramus of the second pair, ascending to the ganglion cervicale primum. 9. Ramulus, proceeding downwards and anteriorly, from the third pair to the descendens of the ninth pair, which in this its course is joined with ramus, lit. I, of the first pair going to the same nerve. •1}/. Conjunction of the descending ramus of the first pair, with a similar ramus of the third pair. The descending ramus (so called) of the ninth pair. 1. Conjunction of the ramus, descending of the ninth pair with the descendens of the cervicals, lit. i}/. 2. 2. Two surculi, going from this conjunction to the sterno-hyoid muscle. 3.3. Ramus, running from the same communication into the thorax, where it is connected with the cardiac ramus. No. 7-—(Vide No. 9.) 4. 4. Trunk of the cervical intercostal nerve.' 5. Ganglion cervicale inferius. 6. Ramus, arising from the inferior cervical ganglion to the theca vertebralis. 7. Nervus cardiacus, arising from the same ganglion. 8. Its first ramus to the recurrens of the eighth pair, again behind the subclavian artery, ascending a little. 9. Conjunction of nerve, No. 7, with ramulus. No. 3. 10. Another ramus, No. 7, extending to the internal surface of the arteria innominata, after having left a surculus in the external surface of the same artery. 11. Third ramulus of nerve, No. 7, distributed by many surculi upon the arch of the aorta. 12. Trunk of the ramus cardiacus, No. 7, which bending itself about the right lateral surface of the arch of the aorta, is inserted into the cardiac plexus, situated between this arch and the right pulmonary artery. 13. Ramus medius, descendens from the inferior cervi- cal ganglion, and forms the ansa, surrounding the right subclavian artery, then it is called Ramus Su- perficialis. 14. Third, and exterior ramus of the inferior cervical ganglion, running obliquely to the first thoracic ganglion, named Ramus Profundus, cending a little, is inflected round the internal side of the vertebral arteiy, and runs above its anterior surface behind the subclavian artery into the cavity of the thorax. 16. Another ramus of the first thoracic ganglion, which, in ascending, is incurvated round the arteria cervi- calis profunda of Haller, lit. i, and in like manner enters the thorax behind the subclavian artery. 17. Conjunction of ramus. No. 15 and 16, whence the ramus communis arises, running in an oblique direc- tion downwards towards the heart, and in the region of the vena azygos, incurvating anteriorly, dividing into three ramuli. 18. Exterior ramulus of this nerve, No. 17, w-hich run- ning under the arch of the vena azygos backwards, and a little outwards, disperses five surculi, of which 19- 19' 19-19* Four are directed towards the right side of the lungs, running under its external covering; but the fifth 19*. Goes to the pericardium. 20. Ramulus medius of nerve. No. 17, which passing | behind the arch of tlie aorta, between the same and | the right pulmonary artery, is incurvated round the inferior part of the right pulmonary artery, and again extending behind the same, is carried into the ! right lungs. 21. Ramulus internus of that nerve. No. 17, which » extending between the arch of the aorta, and right pulmonary artery, is united in the cardiac plexus. , 22., Ramulus of the norvus recurrens of the eighth pair, which running along the right side of the arteria in- nominata and aorta, tends downwards, and is in-- sorted into Nb. 17. 23. Nervus recurrens bf the eighth pair. 24. Inferior part of the nervus vagus, w'hich, sending off the recurrent to the larynx, ascends to the j posterior surface of the lungs. 25.26. Ganglia thoracica.—25. The first, or greater. 26. The second, or smaller ganglion. ^ 27. 28. 29- Constrictor muscles of the pharynx. 27* Su- perior. 28. Medius. 29. Inferior. ' 30. Ramulus of the fifth pair of cervical nerves. ^ 31. A smaller branch of the sixth pair. 32. Ramus, formed from No. 30 and 31, running to the thoracic ganglion. 33. Ramus of the seventh nerve of cervicals, carried to the same. 34. ‘ Second dorsal nerve. 35 Ramulus of the same, communicating with the first thoracic ganglion.