XI HISTORY OF MEDICINE temple at Ephesus; and king Antioch, according to Pliny, dedicated his Theriaca, in verse, to ^sculapius. A leaden instrument for extracting teeth was publicly exhibited in the temple of Apollo, at Delphos, in the time of Erasistratus. Ancient temples, therefore, may be esteemed the first Records of Medicine, as they contained a considerable collection of practical cases, though destitute of order, arrangement, and principles. Amongst go many cases, and approved medicines, it was more easily to make choice of remedies; and by repealed experiments, thdir salutary power became better known, and increased the medical art. Analogy, which is reasoning, drawn from a comparison of the past with the ptesent, to form a judgment of the future state. When this began to be practised, and men were already in possession of many medical observations, as well as the power of various remedies, it was naturally presumed, that what had been formerly found useful in this or that case, and proved by repeated experience, was expected to be of service, if applied to the same disease in another patient; and we can trust tolerably well to analogy, if necessary caution be used, otherwise, nothing is more fallacious. It is necessary that the particulars of the past and present state, w hen compared together, should be perfectly equal, then the conclusion will be certain with regard to the future: without this equdity in comparison, it must be erroneous, and prejudicial: for example, if, from observation, any person should fiiid that a draught of cold water, with acid of vitriol, was salutary in the putrid fever, and therefore give the same in inflammatory fever, would make a most terrible mistake, and endanger the patient’s life; because the analogy is quite contrary, and the circumstances, in part only, and not perfectly equal: or, if any one, after having observed a vomiting, that arose from accumulated bile, cured by a vomit, should prescribe the same in a vomiting that was occasioned by inflammation of the stomach, he might easily destroy life ; for the analogy is not just, because the circumstances arc not parallel in every particular. From these things, the certainty of Medicine w'as considerably diminished: and Cclsus was of this opinion, when he did not hesitate saying, “ Est enim hcec ars conjecturalis, neque respondet ei plerumque non solum conjcctiira sed etiam “ experientia.”—Page 13. Prwfat. But Medicine ought not to be deemed merely conjectural, because occurrences happen in diseases contrary to the Physician’s expectation. The error is not in Physic, but its Professors, who are not sufliciently cautious in using analogy, and often consider different diseases to be the same: for example—in putrid and inflammatory peripneumony, or mistake the angina piiti'ida for the angina in^ammatoria; each of which requires a distinct and opposite method of treatment, as I have demonstrated.* If different species of a disease be confounded together, it is not the fault of Medicine, but of Physicians, not under- standing how to make a just analogy, nor sufficiently considering whether all circumstances be equal, or arising from the same causes. Besides, if even all circumstances be equal, and the expect'd effect does not follow, Medicine is not therefore to be called conjectural; for there are peculiarities in certain constitutions, called idiosyncracy, which neither the Physician, nor any human reason can foresee: for instance, it is well known, that rhubarb is a very safe and effectual purgative, yet if any Physician give Peter an ordinary dose, with the intention of purging him, and it should not purge, but vomit, the fault is neither to be attributed to Physician nor Physic; but the cause of this phenomenon is a particular idiosyncracy peculiar to Peter. Van Swieten once prescribed lapis cancrorum for a patient—certainly a most innocent remedy; but, after taking it, he be- came excessively swelled all over the body : and when he heard that crabs-claws had been given him—said, he could have fore- told the effect, had he known what was prescribed. There are, hkewise, persons possessing a peculiar idiosyncracy—abhor cats, wine, cheese, crabs, a calf’s-hcad: my father was acquainted with a lady, who could not bear three drops of wine mixed in a full pint of water. But these examples are very rare, and do not occur in one in a thousand, therefore do not make much exception to a general rule; nor should Medicine be called conjectural on that account. The sagacious Celsus, who deemed it so, soon afterwards, limits his sentiments within the bounds of prudence: and says, “ Si * The one a putrid infectious angina, arising from putrid miasma, or contagion; the other, from sudden cold.—See Treatise on the Malignaiit Vleerated S»re Throat, ^c. And the successful method of curing scarlet fever, by which not above one in five hundred died, as fully proved, publicly, at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, and entirely dependent on treat-ment; for great numbers, at that period, in different parts of London, ' period—Syrup of extract of baik, with vitriolic acid, pure ait, and tinefure of loses, were the only remedies used, which have been long pubJislied.