INTRODUCTION, &c. Explication of Plate III. of the History of Medicine. I. iEsculapius carried to Rome, and a thcnsa, or divine rites, decreed by Cjesar. A serpent is seen placed on an altar. History teaches, that ^Esculapius was carried in the form of a serpent from Epidaurus to Rome, &c. Before Christ 291 years, in the year of the world 3693, in the 322d Olympiad, and 46‘3 years from the,building of Rome, as may be seen in the Chronological Table in my History of Medicine in Sckola 3Icdkinc£, &c. This medical god was constantly implored in sickness; vota, or vows, were made and fulfilled, as may be seen from an immense number of inscriptions in my possession, taken chiefly from remains found in or near the temples of .^Isculapius. Butyouseea serpent on the altar—for history teaches that ^sculapius carried to Epidaurus was in the form of a serpent; and it is evident that he was represented in this coin, from the last coin of the Rubrici; for in it this altar is seen with the ser- pent and a ship projecting from it. With respect to,the thensa decreed to Caesar, is certain from Suetonius; what is therefore wonderful if Rubrius, being dismissed by Caesar after Corfinium was taken, hoc monumentum ejus gratiam quasierit? Bergerus. II. Rev. Harduin describes and illustrates this coin, and the celebrated Patinus hath asserted an opinion somewhat different; Telesphorus is seen in it, who is also called Evc- merion, to whom Pausanias relates that the Pergameni sa- crifice. The celebrated Patinus observes, that the garment which covers him from the head to the foot is by hlartial called Ligonicus Bardocu cullus. Cephalon, the praetor, again made it, when the coin was struck. III. In this isrscen, ihzt Adrian hath hoped and invoked. For it is evident, that he had such miserable health, that it repented Adrian of his adoption, and a premature death averted caducum parietem. IV. Apis, found under Adrian. V. VI. The Egyptians and Pergamcnians wish every sort of health to Antoninus Pius. The Egyptians indeed Serapis, but the Pergamcnians for health and felicity address ^Escu- lapius. VII. VIII. Serapis. IX. M. Aurelius. This coin, signed in the tenth year, exhibits Isis winding in the form of a serpent. The serpent is the genius of health. X. The Nicomedians implore health to Marcus Aurelius. Explication of Plate IV, of the History of Medicine. I. Commodus and .Esculapius. .Esculapius, the most noted deity of the Pergamcnians, without doubt vigilated for the common welfare. II. Health of the human mind. HI. Serapis conservator, or preserver, IV. Serapis and Isis. V. Julianus Serapis and Hermanubis. VI. Severus with a serpent—.Esculapius is known under Adrianople, (sub ASfi*i'oir4X».) VII. Albinus and Minerva; VIII. Albinus and salus, or health. IX. Caracalla and Gcta commend their health to the Pergamenian Aisculapius. X. Macrius and Salus. Public vows. Explication of Plate V. of the History of Medicine. I. Eliogabulus and Serapis. II. Gordianus and Serapis, &c. To the second many things are to be observed; and first, indeed, I have not read lOESIfiN AAEHANPEflN as in Patin and Harduinus, but with the cupula E<l>E2inN KAI AAESANAPEflN; so that two cities are celebrated in this coin, without doubt—for the Egyptians openly avowed Serapis, as the Ephesians did Diana. HI. Hostilianus. Serapis in a temple. IV. Gallus. Serapis in a temple. This money was struck iy the people of Antioch, as may be seen, under the reign of Hostilianus, &c. V. Gallus and Serapis. VI. Gallus to the salutiferous Apollo. Volusianus. VII. In this coin 5a/ws, it expresses the pestiferous lues, or plague. How much this goddess hath been fatigued, or to those tired with vows. There are a thousand ways to death for those, whom the plague hath spared, &c. &c. Valerianus. Apollo preserver. Galienus,’