( »30 ) THE DURA MATER. This is a thick membrane, closely adhering to the internal . surface of the cranium, especially in the direction of . the sutures. THESE ARE THE EXTERNAL PROCESSES; 1, The falciform process, which begins at the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, and goes along the middle of the frontal bone; then, in the direction of the sagittal suture, to the middle of the occipital bone, termi- nating at the crucial spine of this bone : it is in shape like a scythe, and divides the brain into two hemis- pheres. 2. The tentorium is a membranous process, like a tent, ex- tending from the middle of the occipital bone to the superior margins of the petrous portions of the tem- poral bones. 5. The septum of the cerebellum is a small process, adhering longitudinally to the inferior half of the occipital bone, and, in some measure, dividing the cerebellum. SUBSTANCE CONSISTS OF A DOUBLE LAMINA. The veins in the dura mater are called venous sinuses, twenty- two in number; three of which are particularly dis- tinguished by Surgeons: 1. The superior longitudinal sinus, beginning above the fora- men coecum of the frontal bone, and going towards the middle of ^the occipital bone, it terminates in two lateral branches, called two lateral sinuses, which take a course along the occipital bone, like an arch, towards the foramen lacerum, and terminate in the internal jugular veins. USE. To form the internal periosteum of the cranium. THE MEMBRANA ARACHNOIDEA. This is a thin membrane, resembling a spider’s web, placed between the dura and pia mater, which not only covers the brain, but also the cerebellum, medulla oblongata, and medulla spinalis, or spinal marrow. SUBSTANCE. Consists of a very thin cellubous, or filamentous texture, without either vessels, or nerves, some say ; but that is not the case: for vessels are frequently obvious in dissections. USE. Unknown; but^ according to my ooinion, it is to prevent adhesion of the dura and pia mater; and moderate attrition in the action ol the brain.* THE PIA MATER. This is a thin membrane, intimately connected with the cerebrum, cerebellum, medulla oblongata, and medulla spinalis. substance. Is almost entirely vascular. USE. To surround, or contain the substance of the braift, and to send vessels into its very substance in all parts. THE CEREBRUM, or BR.AIN, Is that large viscus contained in the cavity of the cranium, SHAPE. / Is almost oval. DIVISION. At the upper part, into two hemispheres, by the falciform process ; at the lower part, by the base, or bottom of the cranium, into six lobes. SUBSTANCE. Is divided into cortical, and medullary. The cortical substance is exterior, chiefly vascular, and of a brown colour. The medullary substance is interior, forming the principal bulk of the brain, is chiefly nervous, and of a while colour. THE PRINCIPAL CAVITIES ARE FOUR VENTRICLES OF THE brain: Two anterior, or lateral ventricles, arc semilunar cavities, going from the middle to the first lobes, and are se- parated from each other by a thin transpaivnt mem- brane, a small portion of aqueous fluid, and choroid plexus of the pia mater, are contained in them, made of two laminae, of medullary substance, according to some Anatomists. The third ventricle, is a space left between the thalami of the optic nerves. The fourth ventricle, is a space between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. THE principal PROMINENCES OF THE CEREBRUM ARE 1. The corpus callosum, an oblong medullary protuberance, visible, on separating the hemispheres of the brain. 2. The corpora striata, are two protuberances, of a brownish colour, situated forwards, one under each anterior ventricle. 3. The thalami nervorum opticorum, arc two posterior pro- tuberances of the ventricles of the cerebrum, of 8^ whitish colour, terminating in the optic nerves. 4. The corpora quadrigemina, which are four medullary projections; the two anterior are also called nates; and the two posterior, testes. 5. The pineal gland is a small tubercle in the brain, resting upon the nates. The * See laj Treathe on the Cure of the Ilydiocephalus Membranarum of Infants, &c.