( 50 ) f.08. Posterior branch, about to send ofif the articular and radial nerve.^ 299- anterior branch, constituting the cubital and external cutaneous nerves. 300. 301, A line drawn transversely through the middle of the neck, from which the nerves of another plate take their origin; the arteries are removed. Figure II. DELINEATION OF THE GREAT CERVICAL GANG- • LION ON ITS SUPERIOR PORTION, AND OF THE I NERVES ARISING FROM ITS ARTERIOR PART, - THAT WERE COVERED BY THE ANTERIES IN FIG. I. WHICH ARE HERE REMOVED. a. The external branch of the intercostal nerve, which descends in the canalis caroticus, above the exterior surface of the carotid, and emerging from the canalis already mentioned, runs towards the posterior side of the carotid to its external surface, and downwards. b. Interior branch of the intercostal nerve, carried down- wards behind the interior surface of the carotid. c. Intercostal nerve, formed by the combination of the branches a. and b. not inclosed in the canalis-ca- rotidis. d. e. f. Superior part of the great cervical ganglion; d. Its first protuberance; e, the second; f. the third. g. First branch, arising from the anterior side of the ganglion, which proceeding obli(juely, infcriorly, and anteriorly, is united with No. 3, of the glosso-pharyn- gcal nerve. b. A common trunk, arising from that part. i. .A ramification of the same, passing ba,ck to the second branch. No. 2, of the nervus pharyngeus. k. The remaining part, descending to the anterior gang- liform branch, lit. x. a. l. Second branch of ganglion, running almost in a pa- rallel direction with branch g.—But this is inserted into the gangliform posterior branch, lit. r. i. m. Third branch of the ganglion thicker than the Re- ceding ones. n. First, or posterior ramulus of the same, going to tlic fourth, lit. 9* o. Another, or middle ramification, which is carried almost directly downwards, until it is inserted into the fourth branch.—Vide lit. v. p. Third superior ramification of the branch, marked m. running oblic|uely to the anterior gangliform trunk, lit. X. z. q. q. Fourth branch, arising from the anterior side of the ganglion. O O r. Insertion of the branch n. s. Posterior gangliform ramification, ascending behind >, the internal surface of the cerebral carotid, and then between the internal and external carotid to the exter- nal surface of the latter artery.:—(Vide Fig. I. No. 14-3.) t. Another ramification descending from the branch q. to the internal and external carotids. ^ u. Another, or third branch, q. distributed by a superior < surculus on the middle constrictor muscle of the pha- rynx, but by an inferior surculus on the inferior con- ^ strictor of the pharynx. V. insertion of the branch o. , ‘ w. Insertion of the branch, No. 9, descending from the par vagum. ffl X. .\nterior gangliform ramification, which ascends be- j hind tiic c.xternal carotid, and afterwards ascends on 8 its anterior side.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 135.) | y. A small branch of the laryngeal nerve of the eightli < pair going to the anterior gangliform branch, marked' . 2. The place where the branches k.p. and y. are inserted into the gangliform branch, and others are sent out. et. A branch of the nervus laryngeus of the eighth pair, H which is inserted into the lourth ramification of the f ganglion q. | Posterior branch, proceeding from the communication | above-mentioned. (Vide Fig. 1. Num. 132, 133, 1 13-1.) . j ». Anterior branch.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 126, 127^, ‘ 128, 129, 130, 131.) ^ First anterior branch, running from thcanterior gang- ‘ lifonn branch, x. 2. to the internal surface of the liii- * gual artery.—(Vide Fig. I. No. 135.) j ^ f. Second anterior branch, which, after uniting with the i small branch of the nervus pharyngeus, lit. ij/, pro- ceeds to the labial artery.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 140.) Ramulus, by the medium of which ramus, lit. J', is joined with ramus, lit. t, and the common trunk of the lingual and angular artery is almost surrounded. —(Vide Fig. I. No. 138, 141.) 1). Third posterior ramus of anterior gangliform, ramus X. 2. ascending obliquely to the anterior surface of the I carotid artery. - f S. Combination of the same, with the posterior gangli-i form ramus, marked s.—(Vide Fig. I. No. 144.) ti. A common trunk arising from thence, stretching up- ^ wards on the posterior side of the external carotis, and inserting itself into the ganglion parvum, lit. *■.— H (Vide Fig. I. No. 144.) Fourth ramus of the gangliform ramus, ascending jn a straight direction above thcanterior side of the ca- - rotid already mentioned.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 145./) Divarication