( lo. PLATE IX. Muscles of the Head and Neck, Insertion. Near the lambdoid suture. Action. Moves the skin. Its action is scarcely observable. Name end origin. t. Occipitofrontfllis, S. Attollcns aurem, from the upper part of the pericta- Above the car nium. c. Orbicularis palpelrarvmy from the orbital process of Into the nasal process of the su- To shut the eye-lid. the upper maxilla. perior maxilla. d. Depressor anguli oris, from the edge of the maxilla Into the angle of the r/.outh, and To depress the lips, inferior. course of the lips. e. Orbicularis oris, is formed by the muscles that move Surrounds the mouth like a ring. Shuts or corrugates the mouth., the lips. /. Platysmamyoides, from the deltoid and pectoral muscles. Into the chin, lips, and the nose. It depresses the'chin and lips. THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. o. Peefora/is »?ja7or, from the clavicle, sternum, and the Nearly in the middle of the os Moves the arm towards the breast, ribs. humeri. b. Serratus magnus, from the true and two false ribs. On the basis of the scapula. To move the scapula forward and downwards. In all the vertebrae of the back To bend the back with other mus- c. Latisshnus dorsi, from the os sacrum and ilnim. and loins. d. Obliquus extemus descendens, from the ribs near the In the linea alba and os pubis, serratus muscle. e. Linea semilunaris, f. Linea alba, xxnderf. umbilicus, g. Annulus, or abdominal ring. cles. With other muscles it supports and, compresses the abdomen. THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Deltoides, from the chavicle and scapula. h. Biceps flexor cubiti, from the scapula by two heads. Nearly in the middle of the os To elevate the arm., humeri. In the uppermost end of the ra- To bend the fore arm conjointly dius. with the brachiaeus internus. e. Supinator radii longus, from the external ridge of the Into the inferior, condyle, or ex- To roll the radius outwardly with os humeri. the supinator brevis. tremity of the radius. d. Pronator teres, from the internal condyle of the os Into the middle of tlie outward, or To roll the cubitus and hand in- humeri. posterior part of the radius. wards, with the assistance of the- pronator quadrates. e. Palmaris lOngus, from the internal condyle of the os In the palm of the hand, near the To contract or corrugate the palm humeri. articulations of tiie fingers with the metacarpus. y. irecis, from the metacarpal bone of the little In the annular ligament of the To draw the thumb towards the- finger. ', carpus and articulation of the thumb. g. ‘Flexor carpi radiatis, from the internal condyle of the In the carpus near the thumb, os humeri. h. Part of the flexor sublimis perforatus. i. Insertio flexoris carpi ulnaris.. i. .<46(2’«c<orfo/fi'czs, from the transverse ligament of the In the two first bones of the thumb. To draw the thumb from the- carpus, and from one of the carpal bones. THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. of the hand. a draw the t little finger. To bend the hand. o draw t fingers,. a. The fascia lata is a strong tendinous membrane,, beginning from the upper edge of the os ilium, Poupuart’s ligament, and 1 obliquus externus muscle, from the os sacrum and greater trochanter, descends down the femur, indudes nearly all the muscles of the thigh and leg, at last it disappears on its extremity ; the sascia keeps tight the muscles over which it is spread, and strengthr- ens their action considerably, b. Part of the glutaus muximus. e. Pectinalis. d. Triceps longus, from the os pubis and ilium, has tlwe.e lii the linea asperaof the os femo- To draw the thigh-bone inwardly,. heads. . ris. f. Gratilis, from the os pubis. I«to the tibia under the ham. To bend the leg.. ;/. Sartorius, from the superior spine of- the os ilium. In the inner side of the tibia,. To bend the leg obliquely inward,, the upper part of the patella. >To extend the leg. g. Rectus cruris, from the anterior spine of theilium. i. Tustus externus,.from the-outside of the thigh., i. in^rniis,. from the inside of the thigh. k. Tibialis antuus^ 1. Pero/ueus longus. m. Extensor longus digitorum pedis, n.. Gastrocnemius externus. 0, Suhus'.. q. Abductor poUieisi. . to cross the leg.. -1'