HISTORY OF MEDICINE, xcU (*) XII. 980. (aj IV. 315. S. Edit. aid. From the extinction of the ancient literature, which happened about the sixth and seventh century, of the Maistian rera,, when the greatest part of the Greek and Latin books were lost; it was until the sixteenth century that the fame of Asclepi- ades lay dormant, in the obscurity of silence. Asclepiades treated of the faculties which are called natural; that is to say, of nutrition, and generation. In another work, divided into several volumes, which he called preparatory, he wrote also considerations upon the doctrine of Erasistratus, which were then most currently received. From these books, of which there are to be found many small fragments in Aurelian and Galen ; it may seem that Asclepi- ades had amply explained all that contributes to compose the institutes of physic, and that he renders the first, and what is called the scientific part, complete. But he moreover, in those works, laid the foundations of the second part, or branch, more profound, more abstruse, and more inieresting ; which consists in the knowing intimately the nature and essence of dis- eases. Upon this subject he was more extensive, having w ritten a Look of definitions, a commentary upon some of the short, and obscure works of Hippocrates; a treatise on periodical fevers, and three on febrile disorders, either inflammatory, or quick, commonly called acute. He wrote some books, also mentioned by Aurelian, upon the plague, comprehending under that name, not only dangerous and mortal distempers, but slighter ones produced by some extraordinary occasion, but com- mon to the inhabitants of any particular place, (p) He treated besides of some slow, or chronical disorders, such as the gout, and the dropsy. He also wrote upon hemorrhages, and on the alopecia, that disorder in which the hair comes off, through the universally bad state of the hu- mours, Galen quotes a long and valuable fragment from him upon this distemper. It is to be observed that Plutarch, on the authority of the philosopher Athenodorus, assures us that it was in the time of Asclepiades that the hydrophobia, and the elephantiasis, made their first appearance in the world. There is also to be found in Cassius, and Galen, the quotation of a book of his upon ulcers, which perhaps was a commentary upon the one of Hippocrates under that title. Pliny, (q) Sextus, (r) Aurelian, (s) and Apuleius, (t) seem to have agreed in referring to a famous treatise on the method of giving wine in distempers ; and Aurelian quotes one upon clysters, from which, some have imagined that Celsus has taken his sentiments, which are now esteemed as the most rational practice. He likewise wrote on the means of preserving health, and of prolonging life ; upon which there is mentioned by Celsus, (u) and Aurelian, (x) a. celebrated work of his, addressed to Geminius, in which be condemned the purgative and emetic me- dicines; and the too complex, and artificial exercises of the gymnastic schools, maintaining that the best remedy for pleni- tude, or a plethora, was abstinence ; while he commended a discreet freedom, and variety in life. Hence it is, that we have reason to imagine, Celsus took his most judicious and excellent first chapter on physic ; and Plutarch, in his discourse against drugs, which abounds in salutary precepts. Upon this subject, it is probable, that those books were written, which he sent to JMithridates, and w hich Pliny mentions to have been in current reading in his time, (y) It is said by Galen that he introduced into physic, the opinion that the human body suffers a continual alteration, by the particles that perspire from it; so that it can never he pronounced absolutely the same two instants together. This philoso- phical idea of the perpetual immutation of the human body, has given rise to several curious arguments among the civilians. The disciples and followers of Asclepiades, must probably, have been many, since the most celebrated physicians, who flourished for three or four generations after, are said to have been of his school. Thus, Alexander Philalethes, who, as Strabo says, was, in his time, at the head of the Hcrophileans Asia, (z) and is quoted by Galen and Aurelian, as an author in high esteem ; (a) we find by Tkoodorus, Priscian to have been a disciple of Ascle- piades. Philonides, a physician of Durazzo, quoted by Scribonius, by Dioscorides and Galen, we find commended by Herenniub Philo, and Stephanus, as an author of forty five books, and as a scholar of Asclepiades, much esteemed in tliat cityv (p) .\uietoT. XI. cap. 39. p. 136. numb. 231. {q) Lib. XIV. cap. sect. 9. andXXlII. cap sect. 22. (t) VII. p. 308. adv. logicos. No. 91. (s) 3 Acutorum. lib. 1. cap i5. p. 58. etlib. 11. c. 29. p. 144. (♦) 4 Florida, p. 362. v. 13. (u) I. c. 3. sect, de his. quae exten. corp. p. 24. (i) Acutorum. 1. c. 15. p, 44. et Chronic. II. cap. 8. p> 386, (y) Lib. XXV. cap. 11. sect. HI. p. 375,