( 33 ) PLATE XXXI. The component Tarts of 'Nerves exhihited, chiefly^ as they appear^ view edby a Microscope, Figure I. represents a particle of the optic nerve run* ning in the orbit to the bulb of the eye, beheld through the lens, with the diameter of the objects increased 400 times. maaa. External vagina of the optic nerve produced from the internal lamina of the dura mater. Ibhb. Interior substance of the nerve, consisting of many funiculi. c f. Two arteriol®, which disseminate nervous funiculi above and below. Figure II. is a transverse section of the optic nerve, in which sections of the nervous funiculi appear distinct, like mole hills. Figure III. is a transverse section of the ischiadic nerve of an adult, which was first dried to cut from it the riiin lamella, which was afterwards again moist- ened in water, so as nearly to attain its lateral magni- tude. The natural size is here somewhat increased, the bet- ter to express the thinner funiculi of nerves. a a. Cellular membrane constituting the external vagina of the nerve. 4666. There arc only four transverse sections of funiculi composing the ischiadic nerve eayrtMfd, the others are evident, and in what respect they vary in size and figure. Figure IV. Is a particle of a lamella of the ischiadic nerve cut transversely, delineated through the lens, in- creasing the object 100 times in diameter. taa. Cellular vagina surrounding and running between the nervous funiculi. Figure V. Transverse section of a nervous funiculus, beheld through the lens, augmenting the diameter of the object 400 times. The whole section appears to be composed of very little globuli unequally divided. Figure VI. Is a lamella of the ischiadic nerve cut transversely, which, suspended in water, was examined by means of the lens, augmenting the diameter of the object 400 times, one nervous funiculus hath had a pen- dulous situation, which the fig<ure represents. *aaa. Part of the funiculus,''surrounded with its own vagina. 46. Medulla of the funiculus expressed by the elasticity of the vagina, viewed laterally. Figure VII. is a particle of the pulpa medulla: spina^ lis suspended in water. Consists merely of very little globules promiscuously, as it seems, leaning on each other, and connected to- gether by means of the most minute cellulous texture, scarcely to be dissolved even by macerating in water. FigureVlll. IX. X. XI. represent three medullary globules of greater magnitude, varying their figure and size according as the lens by which they are examined is either placed nearer to, or more remote from the object. Figure XII. represents a portion of the ischiadic nerve of an infant injected through the arteries. The size is moderately increased to represent the arte- riola; better. а. Trunk of the ischiadic nerve, in which the funiculi are clearly seen. б. External popliteal nerve. c. Internal popliteal nen-e. 6. d. c. d. Here the tela cellulosa, more copious, covers the nerves, and more vessels were filled. eeee. Arteriolm, from the neighbouring cellulous substance running to the nerve, and there creeping into nervous funiculi. a. Figure XIII. is a portion of a thick funiculus of the cervical nerve running to form the brachial plexus. 6. A fungus, or monticulus, projections of a medullary substance, divided into irregular areoloe by deep streaks. These striae demonstrate how the membraneous septa arise from the internal superficies of the exterior invo- lucrum of the nervous funiculi. P/gi/reXlV. represents the prceternatural fungosity of the medullary substance of the nervous funiculi, which arose from an amputation of the arm of a woman, whose hand and fore-arm were badly gangrened, or mortified. The woman lived a long time after the operation ; at last, when she died of another disease, it gave an opportunity of examining the truncated member, in which were ob- served, that all the extremities of the absected nerves hatl swelled into nodes, from which the radialis nerve being more accurately examined, after the cellular structure was removed, it demonstrated how the me- ■dullary substance grew out, as of an unformed white mole, and sufficiently hard. a. a. Nervous funiculi here forming the radial nerve con- nected together by a wonderful concatenation. b. Fungosity, or excrescence of the medullary substance of the funiculi of the radial nerve.