( <7‘ ) THE ORQANS WHICH PREPARE THE SECRETED JUICES ARE 1. Follicular glands, in which the secreted fluid, by remain- ing some time, becomes thicker—as mucus, and the fat of glands. 2. Receptacula, which retain the secreted humoui's for some time—as the gall-bladder for the bile, and vesiculm seminales for the semen. 3. The absorbent vessels of those receptacles, which carry away the thinner parts of the fluid contained. 4. Whether may not a peculiar fermentation take place in the receptacles of some of these secreted humours? The power carrying the fluid to be secreted into the secreting vessels, is the pressure from behind. The power by which the fluids, secreted, are carried out of their receptacles, is 1. A contraction of the muscular fibres of the receptacle, containing the fluid, as may be observed in the bladder and vcsiculse seminales. 2. The adjacent muscles; thus the saliva is expelled by the muscles of the jaws; the semen, by the acceleratores urina;; the bile by the stomach, when turgid; and the pancreatic juice by the abdominal press. 3. The stimulus of the secreted humours, which, by its weight, quantity, or acrimony, irritates the recepta- cle to contraction. These observations are sufficient to elucidate secretion in ge- neral, as to each particular secretion.—See Doctrine of the. Humours. EXCRETION OF HUMOURS. The excretion of humours is their exit out of the body. The excrementitious humours are the matter of perspiration, the fasces and urine. By these excretions the body frees itself from noxious and useless humours. EXPULSION OF THE F^CES Is the passage of the excrements from the anus. Fmccs comprehend that part of the food which passes into the great intestines, not changeable into chyle, ab- sorbed by the mouths of the lacteals, nor meseraic veins. This mass, in the great intestines, acquires a peculiar sterco- raceous faetor by fermentation, and is propelled into the intestine, called rectum, by the peristatic motion of the great intgstiues of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm. The intestine, called rectum by its bulk, or more rarely by a peculiar acrimony of the faices irritating it, acquires a tenesmus, or frequent desire of going to stool. By this st^ulus, the sphincter ani relaxes, and the fibres of the rectum contract; thus the fiseces are propelled, downwards through the anus, which is then open. Contraction of the- internal sphincters also assist the ex- pulsion. Thus, faeces, the consistence of an electuary to the weight of four or five ounces are ejected, and passing out by the round arched aperture of the anus, they are moulded into a cylindrical form. As soon as all the faeces arc ejected, the tenesmus and action of the abdominal press cease. The anus is again contracted by its sphincter and levator muscles. THE USE. The body is thus relieved of its faeces, which would do mis- chief, and bring on putridity, if not discharged. SECRETION OF THE URINE. The secretion of urine is its separation from the blood. The extremities of the renal arteries, which go into the sub- stance of the tubuli, form this segreting organ. The urine passes from the tubuli into the renal papillae, out of which into the pelvis of the kidney; from this it goes down the ureters, and falls into the bladder drop by drop. The urine is retained some hours in the bladder, by the natu- ral contraction of the neck of the bladder. The urine, gradually collected, either by its quantity or acri- mony, excites a desire of discharging it : by this stimulus, the neck of the bladder is relaxed ; and the muscular coat contracted, the urine is thus pro- pelled through the urethra. A slight contraction of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm assits its expulsion: in men, the last drops of urine are expelled from the urethra by the contraction of the muscles, called acceleratores urinas, which press upon the urethra. The mucus, which moistens the internal surface of the urethra, defends it from the acrimony of the urine. USE. To take away from the blood its superfluous water, salts ; what is worn off the solids—earth, impure oil, and other useless humours.—In relaxed nervous habits, do not the exhalent arteries furnish some of the su- perabundance of pale urine so common in nervous affections? , TRANSPIRATION.