( 27 ) PLATE XXV, Basis oj^ An anterior view of the basis of the cerebrum, with the posterior lobe a little reclined, to shew iXxGjissura Sylvii, and the cerebrum somewhat drawn back to exhibit the lowest scat of the ventricle, A A. The posterior lobes of the cerebrmn. BB. Anterior lobes of the cerebrum. CC. Fossa Sylvii: which ascends to the bivium of the ante- rior ventricle. D D, Cercheltam. ' E, Commencement of the spinal marrow. FF. Corpora pyramidalia, at the beginning of the medulla oblongata, are four eminent bodies, of which the inte- rior and tumid collides diminished backwards in a point, are called corpora pyramidalia. GG, Corpora olitaria; are two exterior, short, niedullary, obtuse collides, or eminences, mixed with cineritious stria, called corpora oblivaria from their figure, and ^ may be easily displaced from their situation. HH. Tons Varotii: not only inscribed with transverse, but also with furrows decussating in different ways, which the arteries seem to cause; it is a convex body in the superior surface of the medulla oblongata; as the cruraof the cerebellum subject themselves to the crura, they then become, as it were, an arch, placed over two streams meeting together, which is called pons, and attributed to Varolius; others call it the annular protuberance. Part of the plexvs choroides: in the anterior ventri- cles, plexuses of vessels occur, as it were, twisted into a rope, by means of a membrane, which is an elon- gation of the pia mater, and are called plexus choroi- ! dei: the figure is triangular, plane, and expanded, like a veil painted with many small arteries. But other more compound plexuses arc continued, in part, convoluted, slender, the right and left; and, lastly, they are joined together. I he pia mater, convoluted, spreads in the inferior part of both cornua of the lateral : ventricle. In that seat of the plexus of the cranium j . propullates into the basis of the cerebrum, free, placed 1 on the arising optic nerve, and covered by the pia Ina^'r alone, is continued to the anterior and posterior j end of the thalarai, and the terminations of the septum I lucidum. II. Mamillary eminences, ov eminentiee quadrigeminee. ,KK. Part of the crura cerebri; the enma cerebri are two medullary eminences which arise n%m the basis of the cerebrum, and terminate in the pons Varolii* L L. The optic ?ienes before tliey unite. M. Their conjunction. iiN. The optic nerves separated. 0. Part ol the pia mater subject to the third ventricle. ’ P. The seat of the infundibulum. I IL Anterior part of the corpus callosumupon cutting I away the falx from, the crista galli, and drawing down the hemisphere, a longitudinal white, convex portion , presents itself, called corpus callosum.. Z. Part of the anterior perpendicular lobe of the cerebrum. : Olfactory nerves y arise from the corpora striata,, and the Brain* 1 • ■ they pass through the cribrose foramina of the ethmoid bone into the cavjty of the nose, and are distributed in numerous branches on the pituitary membrane,- for the purpose of smelling- . ■ S S. Nerves of the third pair, motores oculorum : are di- vided into six branches 1. to the levator muscle of the palpebra; 2. to the superbus; 3. humilis; 4. bibito- rius; 5. to the oblique inferior; 6. to the tunics of the eye, goes out from the low'cst crura cerebri and mi- grate to the orbit of the eye. TT. Nerves of the/b«/M pair, or syfnpathedc nervesy they are tlie smallest. V V. Nerves of the fifth pair; this pair is the largest of all; divides into 1 ophthalmic; 2. superior max- illary ; 3. inferior maxillary, afterwards into the infra orbit ale, temporal, palatine, nasal, pterygoid, dental, lingual, auricular brauches, &c. XX. Nerves of the sixth pair; the par adducens; Y Y. Hard and soft nerves, or the seventh acoustic pair, is composed ol two nerves, the nature of which is different y the su/t to the organ of hearing; .the hard makes to the facial branches; the second, the auricular. ZZ. Nerves of t\\e eighth, or pur xagum. a a. Nerves of the pinth, or lingual pair. bb. Anterior roots of the^iif cemVaf nerve; tenth, or cer— xical pair, discovered by Willis, and properly called the frst nerve of the neck, has two roots, anterior and posterior, run into a ganglion, and form- an arch with the adjoining second nerve of the cervix, supplies a branch to the intercostal nerve, and beneath the occi- put, goes out of the medulla spinalis. CC. f’crfc'/nw/arteries. </. liight inferior arteries of the cerebellum. ■ e. A branch to the inferior surface of the cerebellum, ff. Anterior spinal arteries. g. Their first arch.. h. Left inferior arteries of the cerebellum. ii Branches of the btxsilary to the pons Varolii, kk. Branches of the same to the cerebellum. A branch of the accompanying auditory nerve. p.. A branch of ihejifth pair, vv. arteries of \\\e cerebellum.. Cervical, or basilary artery. ff fj. Deep arteries of the cere/nvm arising from the cervicai* A branch thence to the plexus choroidcus. uu. Branches to the mammillary eminences, and fundus-of the third ventricle.. Communicating arteries, or circle of V/illis.. Trunks of the internal carotids.. u u. Their anterior branches. A. Their anastomoris, and a branch going out to the thb l ventricle. r r. Fosterior branches of the carotids. A. A branch from Uience to the plexus choroideus.