INTRODUCTION, &c. to only be obtained by deep reflection, the avoiding prejudices, and by long experience. Those ■w ho know not these advantages may aftect to censure those who do; but by such censures they only proclaim their own want of erudition in that art which it is their serious duty to better comprehend. All degrees of human wisdom and merit are relative. It is by comparison, that the beauties and deformities of nature and art are discoverable to the discerning, experienced, and contemplative. To an ignorant person of no taste, the sculpture of the rudest block, or the vile daubing of a sign painting, are little inferior to the sublime works of Prai'itiles, Phidias, ov Apelles. The Latin edition of Schola Medicines differs from the present in English; for the former gives the physiology in one column, the second column contains frequently explanations, and a third column gives the appearances of all the parts of the body in a state of disease, or the morbid ef- fects arising from whatever complaint the part might have been previously subject to during life, and w hich led to fatality. By these means, the living function is first considered, how it is per- formed, by Avhat powers it is preserved in a state of perfect health; how, and by what means it is impeded, perverted, or destroyed. For a physician, who comprehends the active principles ne- cessary for the healthful support of a function, whether animal, vital, or natural, and in wdiat de- gree each assists in its due performance; on reflection, and viewing the diseased state, that destroyed the pow'er, during life, on which its free action depended, will be able, if he be experienced in the powers of remedies, to prevent many of those causes, which prove fatal in numerous diseases. He will likewise be enabled to form a judgment, on the efficacy of proposed treatment in all cases. This science of morbid anatomy, is a great modern improvement, and will lead, under prudent restrictions, more to the perfection of the art of physic, than any yet devised. It is truth, it is occular demonstration, it is conclusive. It banishes error, and fallacious preconception. In the rational practice of physic, a great collection of morbid appearances, after death, is exhi- bited, not only of preceding authors, but all 1 have observed myself, in conjunction Avith those writers, wdll be arranged hereafter in the practical part of physic; that wdll be founded and sup- ported by those irrefutable evidences. In wdiich case, neither hypothesis, nor speculations, systems, nor sects, will be admitted, any farther, than when supported by truth, just reasoning from morbid appearances, and actual success, or its reverse in practice. There are some hopes, if physicians direct their minds to those objects, more than following doubtful or ambiguous systems, such as have lately appeared, that the art will soon arrive at the utmost degree of perfection. Confine chemistry, that useful science, wdthin its due bounds; reject all chimeras of novices in the art, examine all pretensions by those lights of truth, which the art amply possesses; set no store by the supposition that medicines of unknown efficacy, can, or ought, to supplant those from which w^e have long experienced the most salutary benefits. Select the best, reject the w'orst and unsuc- cessful modes of practice, however countenanced by those whose prejudices, or slender experience cannot justify their attempt at dangerous innovation. How many unsubstantial caprices, have, wdthin these few years, been obtruded into the art, tried, and condemned; yet supported with a fury little short of insanity, whilst the rage lasted. Encourage practical and real improvements; but always consider the quarter, and probable capacity and experience, from whence they originate. Delusions may pervade the best intended minds; but, it is the office of experience and judgment,