( ‘78 ) ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS. may be necessary to add some few observations on the human functions; = DIGESTION Of FOOD, Softened and prepared by mastication, and passed through the oesophagus into the stomach. It has been denied, that fermentation has uny existence in digesting alizuent, contrary to man, experiments, and received opinions-of many great men; and particu- larly those of the learned Dr. Mackbricic, &c. The food, if well chewed before it passes into the stomach, is already soft, and almost chyme, from the addition of fermenting drinks, or other fermenting substances, ivhere it undergoes an intestine motion ; and acid air, in eructations., is frequently fcwced up the oesophagus, f which every person, almost, experiences: and likewise rajickloils of strongfish, &c.are again perceived, after bang in the stomach many hours—as bacon, sprats, herrings, &c. from ventricular commotion of the par- ticles to be prepared for jiassing the pylorus. How far that intestine motion, the heat of the stomach, and action of respiration advance digestion in forming chyme, is not ascertained ; but the stomach, during this action, is frequently enormously distended by air, especially by leguminous food. Sweets turned sour, &c. It the matter be throwed up, it has a sourish taste.— This looks like ferment. The celebrated and ingenious Stevens, Reaumur, Spallanzani, Scopoli, Brugnatelli, Caramiai, and others, assert, that no fermentation takes place : but the whole process of digestion is performed by the solvent powers of the gastric juice. .As to the gastric juice, it is next to impossible to collect any such fluid. I cannot conceive any other liquid but that which is poured forth fronr the mouths of minute cxhalcnt arteries, opening on the internal surface of the-stomach, which, by experiments made by myself, seem to be .something similar to the vaporous exha- lations of other parts, chiefly composed of water, a little muriatic salt, &c. in short, similar to the finer scrum of the blood. The experiments made by those ingenious Philosophers, do not justify the conclusions drawn. Some are on ani- mals dirt'erent from men ; and what they have called gflA/ric juice, must have been various mixtures in the stomach. Some assert, it is acicK; others, alkaline: but Spallanzani asserts, that it is neither acid, nor alkaline.—Hence, the incongruity of their doctrines. WARMTH OF THE STOMACH, A POWERFUL AUXILIARY. The warmth of the stomach, with very little other .-issistance, acting on the fine masticated solids, and moistening fluids, taken as foods, may, in general, produce the chyme, that pappy substance, in the same manner as Papin’s digestor, by a very gentle heat, dissolves meats, bones, vegetables, &c. Amidst these jarring and opposite articles of food, composed of animal, vegetable substances, and fruits; beer and wine, an intestine motion, similar to fermentation ; .snd gentle heat may produce the effect. It is, howc^’cr, only mentioned as a rational conjecture, that may be easily imitated in a closed glass vessel, and a very moderate sand heat. Digestion has been accounted for, variously, in all ages, ac- cording to prevailing systems and opinions; but it still is considered, by many, obscure. In a practical point of view, it is much better to know how, by an- tacids, itc. flatulency, with acid air, may be neutri- lized and protruded through the pylorus; and how, by tonics, the weakened nervous stumac'.i may be restored to vigour, and enabled to'resist that distress- ing distension, which, in some instances, has produced even apoplexy, and sudden death, than to waste time in unprofitable speculations, of no pactical utility.* RESPIRATION. Investigations on respiration have been attended with some success; and noxious, or dcstructi\e particles of different air, have been explained in a manner that do the highest honour to the ingenious and laborious re- searchers into these fugitive, invisible, floating j airs, or gasses. To *ssert that the changes of the blood in the lungs from respiration were unknown, as some have lately; and that air and water were considered by the ancients, and many moderns, amongst the most simple elements, until now, arc assertions not strictly consonant to tiuth. The ancients knew both water and air to be compound bodies; and many diffei’ences in those fluids were not unknown to Hippocrates. Faefitious airs, destructive to animals, were well known to the Honourable Robert Boyle, and many other Philo- sophers; and that the atmospheric air was a com- pound heterogeneous body, dependent on exhalations, vapours, &c. composed of innumerable discordant particles. GASSES UNllESPIRABLE. The air, or gasses, which human beings cannot respire, and which close the epigkittis, if applied to it, is carbonic acid gass, or fixed air, and oXhe^-acid gasses, according to Rosier, The first of these airs prove fatal instan- taneously, and extinguish the fhiinc of a flambeaux, not leaving the least spark ; which 1 have seen in la Groftadel Cane, near Naples. The same happens in mines, and was called choke clamp. Ti.is air being much heavier than the atmospheric, cannot ascend: and I have s.at in that famous grotta, near the Lacus Avernus of Virgil, a considerable time, unhurt, ' viewing • I have made some experiments, that may hereafter h« submitted to the consideration of the learned, on the processes of Digestion, Chylification, &c. t Grn was a word first used, I believe, by ilie ingenious Van Ilelmont, who, though despised by many of liistime, b now appeariug tire creator a hirm that has an extensive latitude. t » b i. j j no