( ‘29 ) [ DIVISION. . 1 Into external surface, which adheres to the epidermis, and I into the internal surface, which is connected with the I; cellular membrane. ! I SUBSTANCE, j It consists of a fibrous, vascular, and nervous structure. iThe cutaneous arteries are continually exhaling a very subtile I liquid, called arterial exhalation. j The cutaneous veins, and absorbent lymphatics, inhale, or . absorb, what is applied to the skin, and convey the fluids, either to veins, communicating with the cava, or to the thoracic duct. The cutaneous nerves, especially on the upper surface, form nervous papilla:, which constitute the organ of touch, or sense of feeling. On the under surface of the skin, there are subcutaneous glands and bulbs, from which the hair shoots forth, in various parts. THE ADfPOSE MEMBRANE, This is a membrane, formed by^ small membranaceou, oils, and is also called the cellular membrane. SITUATION. Under the skin, between the muscles, and every other soft part. SUBSTANCE. Consists of a thin membrane, forming small cells, which arc filled withyht (oil): these cells are full of vesicles, and communicate with each other by peculiar apertures. USE. To cover the whole surface of the body; to facilitate motion; prevent painful atrition; and connect all the soft parts together. OF THE HEAD IN GENERAL. USES OF THE SKIN ARE The organ of external sensation. exhalation. inhalation, or absorbtion. THE NAILS. These are horny laminae growing at the ends of the fingers and toes. DIVISION. Into margin, root, and sides. SUBSTANCE. Is horny, without vessels, or nerves. The parts forming the head are divided into external, and int® internal. THE EXTERNAL PARTS ARE 1. The common integuments with the hair. 2. A tendinous expansion. 3. Three pair of muscles, which cover the superior part of the head: Two frontal muscles. Two temporal muscles. Two occipital muscles. 4. The pericranium, to which some add the epicranium. 5. The cranium, or skull, which consists of two tables, in- ternal and external, with a spongy intermediate sub- stance, called diploe. THE INTERNAL PARTS ARE 1. USES. To defend the nervous papillae from external violence. To gather, or pick up minute things, to scratch, &c. THE HAIR. ✓ These are dry elastic filaments, growing out of the skin. SUBSTANCE CONSISTS OF 1. A bulb, adhering to the under surface of the skin, which is a vascular and nervous vesicle. 2. A trunk, which perforates the skin and epidermis, or cuticle, which some say is hollow, and contains a me- dullary substance. 1. Three integuments, or coverings of the brain: The dura mater. membrana arachnoides. pia mater. 2. The cerebrum, or brain. 3. cerebellum, or, smaller brain, 4. medulla oblongata. 5. Nine pair of nerves. 6. Four arteries, which are Two internal carotids. Two vertebral. , 7. Twenty-two venal sinuses. LI TWE