( 190 ) The most frequent exciting causes of diseases are six, which are usually called the non-uaturals, viz. 1. The air- 2. foods and drink. 3. Motion and rest. 4. Sleep and waking. 5. Things:c;{.crcted and retained. 6. Passions of the mind. THE AIR. The atmospheric air surrounding our body, generally irri- tates, inflames, and suddenly dries every part which is not covered by the epidermis, by which means it does hurt to wounds, ulcers, and bones, when laid bare, it appears that the air has peculiar qualities, by which it causes diseases, as easterly winds, &c. 1. Warm air rarefies the fluids, relaxes the solids, renders the nervous System too irritable, disposes the bile, and other humours to putridity, hence, from great heat arise much suppuration of wounds, gangrene, gene- ration of vermin, fungous, tetanus. 2. Cold air condenses the humours, contracts the solids, congeals the coagulablc parts of our humours, by which chilblains, gangrene, and mortification of con- gealed parts follow, especially if heat be applied to them ; cold applied to a wound, impedes suppuration, and sometimes causes tetanus. 3. Dry air, by its dryness, prevents or retards wounds and ulcers from healing, causes ophthalmia and sore throat, coughs, cold, and asthma. 4. Moist air, by obstructing cutaneous perspiration, and re- laxing the solids, causes chronic, ophthalmia, tooth ach, and rheumatic tumours, intermitting fevers. 5. An air filled with heterogeneous qualities, occasions va- rious morbid effects. 6. Putrid air, as in an hospital, by foul e.xhalations from the sick, or from ulcers, especially gangrenous ones, causes wounds mostly to become gangrenous, which is the reason why many die in putrid hospitals, after suffering amputation, or the trepan. 7i Epidemic air, which contains a particular virus, occa- sions pestilential buboes, carbuncles, and sometimes putrid sore throats, fevers, 6ic. of pun id kind. 8. Air loaded with dust, brings on redness of the eyes, and sometimes a sore throat and hoarseness. A high wind, by blowing the tiles off houses, causes many severe wounds in the head, the wind also dries the epidermis, and occasions chops in the lips and hands. JO. The air being taken away, by an air pump, causes par- tial, or geiierfil sweljiug, all over the body, those who are sunk, under water, die for want of air. 11. Foetid air is hurtful to the eyes, by its exhalation, bring- ing on ophthalmia; from the exhalations of aqua-fortis acataract is produced; the fumes of mercury in the chamber of a person in a salivation, occasions the very worst kind of salivation, and other symptoms to those afflicted with the scurvy, 12. The air which is extricated from our body, either fluids or solids, is by the means of putridity ; hence prot ceeds emphysema of a gangrenous jiart, and swelling in a dead person. The air pervades every part of our body, that when it is blown into a wound, the whole body becomes env- physematous, thus also, the air escaping from the lungs by the breaking of a rib, into the cellular mem* brane, causes general emphysema. THE INGESTA. Every thing taken by the mouth, whether victuals, drink, or medicine, carried into the primffi viae, is called the iugesta. The food can produce a disease by its quan- tity, or quality. The quantity may be too much, or too little. The quantity being too great, produces an ill formed chyle, therefore from excessive eating, too much suppura- tion of wounds and ulcers, or a bad pus, fungus, and inflammations are occasioned, flatulence, &c. Excessive eating of lying in women, causes deposition of milk, in the extremities, and swelling of the breasts, also inflammations, in wounds of tlie stomach and intestines, voracity alone produces death, and in tlu)se subject to herniaj, it occasions strangulation of the intestine. A deficient quantity of food, or long fasting, makes the fluids putrid, thence bad suppuration, gaugrcnc, and death, hence too rigid a diet in fractures sometimes prevents a junction of the bones. The quality of the ingesta can have several bad properties. 1. Spirituous food causes congestion to the head, hence in wounds of the head, and perturbation of the brain, it is hurtful; a continued use of strong spirits brings on induration of the liver, glands, and such a nar- rowness of the oesophagus, as to render dcglutilion difficult, contracts the lacteals, diminishes healthful chylification ; of course sanguification, nutrition, and bodily strength, produces dropsy, &c. 2. Fatty food, by relaxing the prim« viae and peritoneum, subjects the person to ruptures; corrupt food, gene- rates a rancid saburra in the stomach, by which a vi- tiated chyle is carried into the blood, affecting the adeps, and raedull.ary part of. the bones, occasioning inflammations, erysipelas, maglignant ulcers, spina ventosa, and mortificaiion, in some instances. 3. Glutinous-food, produces a glutinous and acescent saburra, in the prim.Te via*, by which, a glutinous and ace.scent chyle goes into the blood, whence arise obstruction of the glands, tumours of the joints, spurious, anchyr losis, and oedematous swellings. 4. Sdl^food, occasions a predominant muriatic and scorbu- tic acrimony. It has been found to dissolve the callus of fractured bones, which had been formed many years before. 5. Jlkalint