( 77 ) The internal rami run to the convex surface of the diaphragm above, and to the internal side of the quadrilateral fora- men, through which the vena cava is carried trom the ab- domen to the right auricle. I have seen some internal ramuli terminated in the convex surface of the diaphragm; but their principal ramus perfo- rated the diaphragm to the external side of the quadrilate- ral foramen, and the ramus thus becomes the phrenicus ab- dominialis, which was immediately divided into external . and internal surculi. The external rami, migrating to the lumbar part of the dia- phragm, send one long rainulus to the vena cava, which, in passing to the lobulus spigelii of the liver, was joined with a surculus of the great sympathetic nerve from the coeliac ganglions. I have seen three remarkable rami of the internal branches : the first, to the side of the phrenic artery, formed the con- spicuous ganglion, above the right renal capsule, from which three surculi arise, of which one was distributed in the right capsule; the other, rather external, was joined with ramuli, arising from the right coeliac ganglions of flic great sympathetic nerve. The third ramus, after giving many surculi to the lumbar part of the diaphragm, was joined by three remarkable anastomoses with the coeliac ganglions of the light great sympathetic nerve. COUHSE OF THE PHRENIC NERVE, ON THE LEFT SIDE, It distributes both internal and external rami, whilst in the thorax. Some of the internal ramuli disappear, partly in the convex surface of the diaphragm ; some perforate the muscular part of the diaphragm, so that they are lost in its concave surface. The external ramus perforated those fleshy parts of the diaphragm, which constitute the spincler of the oesophagus, then passed on its concave surface, ac- companied by the left phrenic artery, and gave off the fol- lowing three rami;— It' First, Surculi, going to the left lumbar part of the dia- phragm. Second, A branch, which, running down to the left renal capsule, anastomosed with ramuli, arising from the left coeliac ganglions of the great sympathetic nerve. . Third, A ramus, anastomosing with that ramus of the great W sympathetic nerve, which is joined before the cardih with the oesophageal anterior plexus of the eighth pair. 1(1 I SECOND OBSERVATION. j ON A WOMAN SIXTY YEARS OLD. (Both in the right and left side of the body, the phrenic nerve j was the same as in the example of the last sulyect. On the I right side, that ganglion, which the phrenic nerve entering, I ll the cavity of the abdomen usually forms, was present on < j the left side, as in the First Observation there was nothing ♦ i but the simple conjunction of the phrenic nerve, made . i I with surculi, arising from the left coeliac ganglion. THIRD OBSERVATION. . * ON A MALE SUBJECT, FIFTY YEARS OLD, ON THE RIGHT SIDE. The phrenic nerve, not far distant from the foramen, of the vena cava, having given many ramuli to the convex surface of the diaphragm; and after passing through its substance, several ramifications are found on its concave surface'; two going to that part near the loins, which, after running about an inch, unite, and form two ganglions; one, supe- rior; the other, inferior. FROM THE SUPERIOR GANGLION. First, The external branch, anastomosing with the right coeliac ganglions. Secondly, From the superior ganglion surculi arise, which run partly to the right supra-renal glandula, partly towards the vena cava, where they arc joi.aeJ with surculi, coming from the right coeliac ganglions of the great sympathetic to the lobus spigelii. The inferior ganglion sends off two ex- ternal surculi, anastomosing with the right coeliac gang- lions ; internal was divided into several rami, distributed on the left renal capsule. ON THE LEFT SIDE. The phrenic nerve, after dividing into 2 rami, external and in- ternal, in the left cavity of the thorax ; and having perforated the diaphragm, is distributed on its concave surface, so that it becomes the external, shorter branch, and is termi- nated in the costal part of the diaphragm. The internal long ramus, without making any anastomosis with the left cocliac ganglion, descended near the orifice, through which the a'suphagus passes, and was expanded on the lumbar part of the diaphragm by many surculi. Thus, there was no anastomosis in this subject; either with the eighth pair, or with the great sympathetic nerve. From the ganglions above-mentioned, arise 55. 56. 51. Three elegant hepatic trunks, which, as the Plate shews, run to the right region of the liver. 5S. 58. Fourth hepatic nerve, arising between the aorta and vena cava, is covered a little on the left side of the vena cava, where, after ascending, it so proceeds to the liver; that, after being joined to the hepatic ramus, com- posed from nerve, 55, and 57, it migrates on the posterior surface of the hepatic artery to the liver.—Plate XXXIX. 58. 59- Radix, by which the ramus hepaticus, 53, arises from the seventh right cceliac ganglion. 60. 6l. Radices of nerve, 58, from the first right coiliae ganglion. 66. 67. Radix, sent by the ninth cceliac ganglion to the he- patic ncr\e, 57. 6S. 71’ Radix of the eleventh coeliac ganglion, which goes to the nerve, 66, 67. 72. 73. Ramus of nerve, 66, 67, which constitutes the he- patic plexus, or that admirable arferious net-work, in which the right hepatic artery is involved. X 7i, to