( 1^7 ) ► 5, The uppr« lip Is I’mmerged in the liquid, that the atmos- I phene air may be. prevented from getting into the I ' cavity of the mouth. 3. The liquid is poured on the superior surface of the tongue. 4. The liquid being poured on the tongue, which is applied to the roof of the mouth, it is pressed on into the ' cavity of the fauces. I 5. The fluid being carried into the fauces, and passing over ' the epiglottis, which projects, is divided into two I streams, passing the fissure of the glottis at each I side of the larynx, and meet again in the fauces, from which it passes into the oesophagus, by thi» action of which it is carried into the stomach. THE USE OF DEGLUTITION Is to carry food and drink into the stomach for digestion. DIGESTION IN THE STOMACH. Digestion is the act of changing the food into chyme, which ' is effected in the stomach. XIIE INSTRUMENTS WHICH CHANGE THE FOOD INTO CHYME, ARE SIX; NAMELY, 1. The moist heat of the stomach, which softens and ma- cerates the food. 2. The air, which is mixed with the food, during mastication, and swallowed, being expanded by heat, rarifies the expanded particles, and general mass. 3. The saliva, which is continually swallowed; and the gastric juice, secreted by the exhalent arteries of the stomaeh, continually delute and soften the food. 4. The mucus of the mouth, which is swallowed ; and the mucus, secreted by the glands of the stomach, serve to combine the oleaginous particles of the food with the aqueous part of the gastric juice and saliva. ' 3. The peristaltic motion of the stomach, by which the va- rious things contained are continually mixed and kept in motion. 6. The motion of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, by which the food is constantly pressed a little, 7. The spontaneous effervescence of the food, which is ex- cited by the saliva, gastric juice, heat, air, and intes- tine motion of the mixed foods, vegetable, facinace- j ous, and animal, from whence acid eructations,' &c. It is evident, therefore, that digestion, or the change of food into ctiyme by these means : i J. Trituration. 2. Solution. 3. Fermentation, which, by many, is doubted.* The effect of digestion, therefore, is the changing of food into cliyme, or a paltaceous, fermentative mass of an un- pleasant smell and taste. The softer part of this mass is gradually thrust from the sto- mach through the pylorus into the duodenum: 1. By its own weight. 2. By the peristalic motion of the stomach, contracting itself 3. By the motion of the abdominal pressure. But the more thick and hardened pait is retained longer. The foods which cannot be acted on by these means, arc in- digestible—as tough membranes, bones, the skins of some fruits, and parts of vegetables, which are ex- pelled unchanged. THE USE OF DIGESTION Is the first change of food into chyme. CHYLIFICATION. Chyliflcation is the changing of chyme into chyle. * The small intestines constitute the organ of chyliflcation, THE CAUSES WHICH CHANGE CHYME INTO CHYLE, ARE 1. A continual action upon the chyme, by the peristaltic and aiitipcrislaltic motion of the intestines, and abdominal pressure. 2. A considerable dilating of the chyme, by the saliva, gastric, pancreatic, and enteric juices. 3. An encreased fermentation, excited by the heat of the intestines, the air, and above-mentioned fluids. 4. The bile from the liver and gall-bladder being poured upon the chyme, by which the oil, united to the mucus by digestion in the stomach, and being united with the juices secreted, forms chyle. The effects of chylification ai’e to change the colour, taste, and smell of chyme into a white, sweetish, acescent inodorous humour, like millc. Chylification is performed in less time than chymification r bo:h are completed within three hours, in health. THE USE OF CHYLIFICATION Is to produce chyle. PASSAGE OF CHYLE INTO THE BLOOD. When chylification is completed, the chyle is absorbed into the lacteals; and that part of the chyme whicli cannot be changed into chyle, is expelled into the great intestines, and called the fmees. But, part of the humours, secreted in the prim® vise, goes through the meseraic veins into the liver. ' THE • From the experiments of Stevens, Reaumur, Spallanzani, Scopuli, Brugnalelli, Carimini, Mr. J. Hunter, and others, the chyme is produced hy the power ot the gastric juice ; on which, however, J do not speak positively, from the di.Uculty, not only of procuring the pure gastric juic* in man, bat the ascertaining its precise qualities, &c. &c.