11 HISTORY OF MEDICINE. many other causes—sometimes inevitable—occasion, in proportion to their cficcts, difl'erent degrees of derangement in the functions of life : men, therefore, were always liable to pain, were often debilitated, injured, or destroyed by accidental causes, before the vital powers were incapable of performing their functions from old age ; hence, the causes of disease and death become more evident. It was also observed, that diseases were frequently removed by the natural powers of the body only, or by a spontaneous increase of action', the cause of disease was expelled through various parts of the body: thus fevers, lij?morrha<Te, or effusion of blood, ulcers, abcess, and convulsions—real causes of disease in themselves, became the means of restoring health, and proved the extent of corporeal powerin resisting, or removing disease. In very early times, many remedies were known: some by natural reflection; others by accidental circumstances; others again became known by their effects on the brute creation. The tongue and mouth of the sick being dry, required water to quench thirst; water or fluid, collected under the skin, was removed by an incision ; blood was seen to flow from a ruptured vein: the purgative influence of hellebore was discovered, by its effects, on a goat. Hence it appears, that a knowledge of the cause and symptoms of diseases, the pow'crs of life in repelling, or removing them, and the application of various remedies had been observed in all ages, even amongst the most uncultivated race of mankind : and, consequently, the real oiigin of Medicine was derived from such experience. This natural physic, discovered and established by experience alone, was yet very imperfect; the effects of salutiferous and deleterious simples were only knowm, and chiefly possessed by the low'cr order of people, greatly resembling our present illiterate herb-doctors; yet it must be confessed, that some of them, from having devoted more attention to the subject, increased their knowledge : the sick were therefore judiciously exposed in the public roads, to receive all possible benefit from the experience of passengers. Since it has been proved that natural Medicine was coeval with the existence of man, it will next follow to shew where it was first cultivated with particuqir attention, where reduced into a science, its inventor, the earliest physicians, and the time it began to be practised by private men. It may be distinguished into three periods—Obscure, Fabulous, and Historical. In the first period, from the creation of the world to the flood, although vve know it existed, we have scarcely any tradition of its effects, except what may be collected from Sacred History. In the second period, every thing is obscured by allegory and fable, often with little regard to truth. The third begins from the time when the actions of men were handed down to posterity witli greater accuracy and perspicuity. It IS well known, that amongst the early inhabitants of the world, it was customary to represent actions, by humorous relations, hyperbolic and hieroglyphic figures, concealing naked truth under the effusions of fancy.—Cicero, dt Nafura Dear. Lib. 11. remarks, “ That it was customary to enroll those amongst their gods, who had conferred important benefits on •“ society.” An inveirtor of the Science of Physic is to be sought after amongst those who lived soon after the general deluge ; for, prior to that epoch, it does not seem that Medicine had arrived to such a degree of excellence, as to be enumerated with the Arts : for in the sacred codicil of antediluvian inventions, several Sciences are particularly noticed—as Agriculture, Music, Metallurgy, Smithcry, &c. but not a syllable of Medicine. But if wc particularly peruse fabulous history, as far as relates to Physic, we shall find Horus, king of the Assyrians, son of Isis and Osiris, celebrated as first inventor of •Medicine : some believe him to lia\c been the Apollo of the Greeks, and Ph- ebus .f the Latins, accordiiig to Diodorus Siculus, who observes, “ By Horus, is meant Apollo, who was taught th^ “ art of curing, and prophecyiiig by his mother Isis, and has deserved well of mankind by his oracles and cures.” The following verses of Ovid, in which Apollo is made to speak for himself, corroborate this opinion; “ Invmtum medkina matin est, ojiijerque per orban Dicor, et herbarum mbjecta pofentia nobis.” But many doubt whether Horus and Apollo were the same.—Le Clerc says, that Apollo never existed, but was merely a ficti us cluiracter oi the Poets. There seems to be some probability for such conjecture. Hyginus observes, that Apollo pnly discoveicd diseases of the eyes: and this is even doubtful; fof if Diodorus Siculus be correct, in saying, that Horus was