HISTORY OF MEDICINE. xciv “ inctricas per wfafes stuliUs uul diatus auf tardus, descriptus ah Heruphilo, medicince vote miranda arte nimiani propter suhtili- “ tatem dcstrtun.'’ And in another place, lib. XXV'. cap. I. “ Omnes scholas danmavit Herophilus in musicos pedes xenarum pulsu descripto, per at at urn grad us.” Herophilus was a native of Clialccdon, and had many celebrated pupils, who followed his doctrines. All his writings are lost; and the tenets and merit of this gre.at man would have remained unknown to us, if Galen had not mentioned them. Praxagoras was his preceptor. , Erasistratus was also a Greek, but authors are not agreed about the exact place of his birth. Macrobius says, he was the principal pupil of Chrysippus. He practised anatomy with great reputation, and saw the lacteals in the mesentery, as well as Heropliilus. He was particularly versed in investigations of the brain and nerves ; he had obtained a knowledge of the ventricules of the brain, origin of the nerves, .and their distribution, as appears from a fragment of the work left'by Galen : he also knew the origin of sanguiferous vessels to be from the heart, and the valves, both of the Ventricles of the heart, and of the arteries, which were named, by him or his pupils. Tricuspid and Sigmoid, valves. Galen has likewise preserved a memorial of the use of these valves, from a treatise written by Erasistratus on fevers. But he believed that spirit, or air only, was contained in the left auricle of the heart and aorta, which plainly proves the repwrt of his having dissected men alive, to be incorrect, for he must then, have necessarily seen blood in the arteries. Ha thought that the air taken by the lungs, was carried to the left side of the heart, and thence flowed into the arteries; and that when blood found a passage into those vessels, destined to convey air, it caused inflammation ; he was also acquainted with the Asynchronos of the heart, and motion of the arteries; and affirmed that concoction was performed by attrition. But as Herophilus looked for the cause of all dise.nses in a morbo Jluidorum ; so, on the contrary, Erasistratus considered all dis- eases to arise from a morbo solidorum, and attributed to plcthera, great influence in producing complaints. He was too timid in bleeding and purging; but substituted exercise, frictions, baths, and abstinence; he had a great confidence in ex- ternal cataplasms, fomentations, and ligatures on the joints. We are notin possession of the books of Erasistratus, but Galen has preserved some fragments. An account of the disciples of Erasistratus and Herophilus, may be seen in writers on medical history. It is proper to observe, tluxt in those times, according to Celsus, medicine was divided into three parts; the dietetic, which entirely consisted in the regulation of diet; surgical, which was effected by the hands and instruments; and pharmacutical, ■which comprehended the trcalment by medicine. After Heropiiilus and Erasistratus, another sect bcg.an to flourish, which was self nominated empirical, the chief of which ■were, Serap'm, of Alexandria; Bhilino, of Cos, whom Apollonius, Glaucias, Heraclides, of Tarentum, and many others fol- lowed, although some consider Acron, of Agrigentum, to be princeps einprricorum. The introduction of medicine amongst the Romans, was about this time; they were very long in adopting tlic art, even when it was in great perfection in other countries. If we may credit Pliny, there were no physicians at Rome, for almost six hundred years, from the building of the city, though medicine had been used before that time; he says, libro. XXIX. cap. 1. “ Primam e medicis xeiHS.se Jiomam Ptie- *' ponesso Archagathum Lysnnia jilium, L. JEmiliu et M. Uvio Coss ; anno vrbis 585 ei^ue jvs Quiritium datum, et tabemam in ■“ compito Acilto emptam ob id publkc. Vulnerarium tradunt fuissc xocatum, mireque grot urn adxentwn ejus initio, mat a savitia '* secandi urendique transiisse nomen in cernifieem, et in tadium artem amnesque medicos.” Pliny then mentions Cato’s hatred to Greek physicians, and relates the words in which Cato cautions his son to beware of them. The history of Archagathus cannot be denied, yet it is necessary to remember, that Pliny took every opportunity of abusing physicians ; hence from a preconceived antipathy, he might have exaggerated the report that Rome existed six hun- dred years without them, as the contrary can be easily shewn. For in the year of the city, 321, on account of a pestrleiKc; a temple was dedicated to Apollo, for the health of the public ; and in the year 460, iEscnlapios was carried from Epidaurus to Rome ; and it is probable, that before the arrival of Archagathus, there were some physicians amongst the Romans, from the observation of Dionysius, of Halicarnassus, who mentions a destructive plague that raged at Rome, in the year, 282, and says, “ Quod contra medicamenta aliaque morborum Uevamina contumaxfuerit.” And he speaks more particalary of that wluch raged in 301, and depopulated the city, and teHs its that there was not a sufficiency of medical assistance to take the care i such