HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Jfciii city, which was then very populous and free, bordering near upon Italy, where Cicero passed the greatest part of the time of his short exile, being kindly received there. The same Philo mentions, in tha^ame place, iwo other scholars of Asclepiades, of whom one was Titus Aufidius, who is also quoted as such by Aurelian ; and the other, more illustrious, was Nicon, the Agrcgcntine, quoted by Celsus, and praised by Cicero, in one of his letters to Trebatius, for the gentleness of his medical method, of whom he mentions, with pleasure, to have read a book of his own veracity, which he had but just before seen, (b) In that same letter of Cicero, there is also mention made of Bessus, as a friend and physician to himself, as well as Tre- batius. Now it should seem, that this was Tullius Bassus, who, Diascorides says, was of tlic school of Asclepiades, and had wrote upon plants, (c) Pliny intimates, that he wrote in Greek, {d) and Aurelian quotes a book of his on the hydrophobia, and calls him withal a friend of Niger, (e) , But that disciple of Asclepiades, who obtained the greatest celebrity, was Themison, of Laodicea, in Syria, of whom we have accounts in Celsus, Seneca, Aurelian, and Galen. They say, that after the death of his preceptor, he changed his system, and instituted a new sect, abandoned the research of the more abstruse, or hidden causes ; and confining himself to observe, in the evident circumstances of distempers, the peculiarities common to many ; so that he reduced them to certain few and summary kinds, giving to this his manner of examining, and noting the manifest, and essential resemblances, the name of method; from whence those who followed him were called methodists. And siich was the credit and facility of his doctrine, (f) that, as Seneca observes, he became the third archimandrite, or head of a physical sect, after Hippocrates, and Asclepiades, inheriting the great reputation of his master, in Rome, where he probably might live to sec the beginning of the new government of it, under the Cajsars. And certain it is, that Augustus had, very early, for his physician, another follower of Asclepiades. This was Marcus Artorius, who had tilso tlie surname of Asclepiades. Galen mentions among the Asclepiades, Gallus, hletrodorus, Moschion, and some others, and, in general, says, that in his time, the sect still remained in some degree of reputation, (g) The first persons that became eminent after Hippocrates and his sons, arc, Diodes, Carystius, then Praxagoras, and Chrysippus, mentioned by Celsus. After the time of these, there follows another epoch, and we must return to Egypt, where the study of medicine was then in the greatest pursuit, particularly at Alexandria; so that it was sufficient to establish the reputation of a physician, to have studied at Alexandria. It was in this place, that Herophilus, and Erasistrhtus, most celebrated men, professed medicine and anatomy. Celsus, tells us the following anecdote of them. “ Etiam nocaites homines a regibus^ex carcere acceptus vivos in~ *• cideriiit, cottsiderarinique, etiamniivi spiritu remanente, ea, qua natura ante claudsset, eoramquc posituram, colurem^ Jiguram, “ magnitvdinem, ordinem, duritiem, mollitiemy lavorem, contactum ; processus dcinde singulorum ct r ecessus, she quid inseritur “ alteri, she quid partem alterius se recipit.'’ Praefat VII. And Tcrtullian seems to have believed it, when he says, Lb.de anima, cap. X. “ Herophilus ille medicus an lanius, qui Sexcentos exsccuit, ut naturam Scrutaretur ; qui hominem odit, utnossety “ nescio an omnia interna ejus liquido explorarit, ipsa jnorte mutunte qua vixerant, ct morte non Simpliciy sed inter artificia “ exsectimis!* But this report seems exaggerated, and is doubted by many. This, however, is certain, that Herophilus was a great ana- tomist, for he first saw the lymphatics, divided the nerves into three kinds, described the sinuses of the cerebrum tubaj of animals, and vesiculai seminalcs ; he also gave a name to the duodenum, to venous arteries, arterial veins, the retina and arachnoid membrane of the eye, the calamus scriptorius, torculer, and many other parts. The testimony of Galen may be added, who says, “ Herophilus reliquam medicinam perfecte callehat: sed in anatomica doctrina ad summum apicem pervenerat : “ hujusque tain praclara eruditiouis partem non in bestiis, ut plerique aliiy sed in ipsorum hominum corporibus sibi acquisherat.” This same Herophilus either first brought into notice the pulse, or at least, illustrated it; and also dared to blame Hip- jlocrates, because he had neglected it, or not sufficiently cultivated a knowledge of it. Hence, Pliny says of him, lib.. IX. cap. XXXVH. “ Arteriarum pulsus in cacumiue membrorum maxime evideus, index fere morboruniy in modulos certos, legesque b b , “ metricaSf (») Epist. fare. 20. written in the year of Rome, 709. (t) Lib, 111. p. 233, (cj Diascorid. praef, £pisb 9a. (d) Lib. I. (g) YoL I. p 94.