li HISTORY OF MEDICINE The rules for diet, the observations on the effects of exercise, or indolence, the manner of administering nhat remedies were then discovered for acute complaints, excepting rough purges, are all delivered with great lu'netration'and judgment, and Well worthy of attention. The prognostics from cold shivering, from tremblings, convulsions, and sweats, are partly true, partly not. For a cold rigor sic.jinga ptuienl in a fever, is not always moital, in many instances it only indicates the formation of an abscess, which hap- pening in the external adipose membrane, terminates favourably in the restoration of the patient’s health. A chilliness after convulsions is very common, and is perceived in general, immediately on the recovery from a lit; convulsions and trelnbiings; after sleep in violent fevers are unfavourable signs. It is an erroneous doctrine that sweats appearing on particular days are beneficial; the notions likewise of critical da3’s art absolutely untrue. For the crisis of all acute distempers, will ever depend on the strength, and particular habit of the patient. Some naturally resist diseases, whilst others fall victims to them, or at least, they are prolonged. It happened, notwithstand-i ing, Hippocrates possessed an uncommon sagacity, j’ct he was prejudiced in favour of the pythagorean numbers; this led him into some singular errors, and amongst these may be ranked the opinions of odd or particular days being unlucky or prosperous. i It might be urged in his vindication, that the moderns cannot determine with precision on this point, because the methods of treatment are quite different. In acute distempers medicines were rarely given by the ancients, but active and power- ful drugs are prescribed in abundance by the moderns. They depended chiefly on nature ; we produce extraordinary changes by art: therefore under these opposite circumstances, the crises must be widely different. But in fact, in another part of the work, it is candidly acknowledged, that the critical days do not constantly agree with the general doctrines ; besides, the difference of climate, air, seasons of the year, and many other incidents, all conspire to change the appearance and conclusion of acute and other disorders. Cold sweats frequently signify the approach of death, in acute affections, especially, if the'countenance and lips be palid, the pulse scarce perceptible, and the patient should be exceedingly sunk, either from profuse evacuations, or the commence- ment of a mortification. The yellow appearance of the body is very unfavourable, in acute epidemic fevers, particularly in the warm climates, unless the bile be discharged through the intestines, for it is commonly the forerunner of putridity. The opinion that fevers would return, unless they left patients on odd days, is highly erroneous, and may be ascribed, without in- justice, to the philosophical prejudices of Pythagoras. ; The various prognostics deduced from the breathing in fevers, seem very accurate; as are several conclusions from the ap- I pearance of the urine; and the diet recommended either for the sick, or healthy ; when the Greek customs, and manner of living are considered, appear extremely sensible. I This excellent author considers a slender diet, in lingering diseases exceedingly dangerous; and this is certainly true, for I here nature requires nourishment, to assist in supporting the calamities of anxiety and pain. The extreme low diet recom- mended by some, fonder of novelty than truth, in the gout, cancer, scrophula, and similar complaints, has so weakened and I reduced patients accustomed to free diet, that more danger has arisen from the prejudices of physicians, than those de- ! plorable diseases. I A precise diet is highly disapproved of, and with reason; for, what situation can be more truly miserable, than those who continually employ their thoughts, in a minute examination of diet, perspiration, and the other evacuations ? These people counteract all the wise intentions of nature; every inconsiderable alteration, produces misery; a gloominess hangs on their ' countenance; they are self-tormentors, living in a state between existence, and non-existence. ‘ On deliriums, convulsions, and comotose symptoms, he speaks justly; and the prognostic from the appearance of the i eyes, w hen sleeping, are in general, exact copies from nature. The intermittent fever, being of short duration, in summer, and of long continuance in tlie autumn, and in winter, lias been confirmed by the writers of every age. The methods of cure were, however, defective, and the modern treatment w'as unsuccessful, till fortune discovered the peruvian bark ; and i chemistry afforded the vitriolic acid ; for by these two remedies, there is nearly a certainty of curing this distemper ; which ■ according to ancient authors, proved destructive to numbers. Ihis may be esteemed as a principal improvement of the mo- jderns, and a valuable acquisition to the art. I The description of the hectic fever, and its fetal catastrophe, resembles exactly what may be now perceived in that lingering j • distemper;