iv INTRODUCTION, &c. The incessantly poring over books, collecting ancient and modern opinions from medical authors, and an alacrity in assenting to plausible doctrines, have been considered as studying medicine, and sufficient to entitle the scholar, with very little practical experience, to the confidence of the sick, as a regularly educated medical practitioner. The degrees of physic are too often obtained on so superficial a foundation, as common experience and the practice of some universities constantly exemplify, to the disgrace of modern science and literature. A diligent student, however, who daily observes, and writes down the symptoms of diseases, as they occur at the bedside of the sick, their modern and most judicious treatment in an hospital of full practice, if he hath obtained anatomical knowledge by actual dissections, and pharmacy by ac- tual practice, will comprehend more of the medical art in a few years, than the most industrious student, under the influence of the former mode, can ever acquire. This I assert from near fifty years observation and experience, not as a matter of opinion, but as an indubitable fact, repeatedly proved at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, where I have the honour of being physician,* and at other hospitals, where pupils are initiated into the practice from the age of fourteen. After a classical education, they cannot too early commence their theoretical and practical studies, before passions, and less laudable pursuits inflame the imagination, and pervert the judgment. The hospital student dedicating his time to the difterent branches of the art, not in casual reading, but in the actual practice of pharmacy, medical chemistry, surgery, and the medical treatment of diseases, under the inspection of able, honest, and experienced preceptors, M'ho liberally communi- cate the faithful result of long, judicious observation, and who guard tlie juvenile mind against those flights of fancy, and numerous prejudices which are daily annoying the profession, will soon obtain a practical knowledge of the extent and power of the healing art, determined by repeated and real facts, ready to be applied on all subsequent occasions. The w^a<ler through stupendous volumes of endless repetitions and contradictions, supposing him sufficiently industrious for the purpose, if any excellence should occur, unless he unite pi'actical remarks on numerous diseases by occular demonstration in an hospital, and be possessed of a mental penetrating acumen void of all prepossession, pride, or prejudice, he is incapable of selecting the pure metal from the scoria >vith which it is obscured, or often surrounded; for he will often receive plausibilities as though they were sacred truths, and try inefficacious or novel unproved medicines, at the expence of the pa- tient's life, or health, in important diseases, f These considerations induced the author, early in life, to attempt the concentration of the most useful knowledge of ancients and moderns in Historia et Schola Medicince, that medical preceptors, if disposed, might convey science with less circumlocution and seducing speculation, and that students * In the medical department there, the field for observation and practice is immence, my prescriptions, taken collectively, amount to many thousands annually, which has been proved by an estimate made by Dr. Hooper, of the said Infirmary. If the student were to wade through the stupendous volumes of the great Hoffman, or the Commentaries of Van Swieien, for instance, would he discover the direct road for applying remedies to individual disease ? No ! he may acquire a wavering inconsistent practice, which an experienced preen’eafwould be able to point out and correct. It is practice makes per- fection in any practical art, not reading and contemplation: one excellent cure in a difficult disorder is worth a thousand of the most acute hypothetical reasonings, or speculations.