xvii HISTORY OF MEDICINE Athcnseus says, “ Aristotelem ah Alexandra wngno octingmta talcnta ad condendam aninialivm historiaein accepisse.'^ But Schulz ill his HiDioria Medidnce lib. V'lll. cap.xvi. brings strong arguments to prove that this was mere report. Whether this be true or not, Haller was of opinion that all the books of Aristotle on the history ami description of animals, arc worth reading.. The account of incubation is by no means despicable ; and his description of the egg is really good, also his explanation of the situation of the human foetus and its gradual advancement to perfection. la “ and con.surae their lives unprofitably in actions that deserve nothing but ridicule, ^^^lat, said I, is all the '.vorld sick, and knows it hot? If *b, they " can send no vvliere to solicit help : for what is beyond the world ? He replied. There arc inhnite worlds, G Hippocrates; have not »o mean an idea of “ the riches of nature! Teach me this, said I, Democritus, some other lime; tor 1 am afraid, if you begin to talk of this infinity, that you will " fall ag:riii into a fit of laughter. But now inform me the reason, that you laugh at the accidents of life. Then looking stedl'asriy upon me. Yon " think, saith he, tlicre are two circumstances occasioning my laugjiter; good and ill; whereas indeed, I laugh but on one principle. Man, full “ of folly, dc.stitute of upright actions, playing the infant in all his designs, undergoing great toils for little benefit, travelling to tlie end of the “ earth, and souuciiiig boltor.iless depths to get silver and gold; never ceasirfg to accumulate, and with an increase of store, increasing endless “ troubles; lest, if he should want, he might be thought miserable. He digs into the bowels of the earth by the hands of slaves; whereof some “ are buried by the earth falling on them: others dwell under ground, as though it were their native soil, searching for gold and silver, sifting one “ sand from another; cutting and tearing their mother earth, which they both admire and trample. How rediculous is this, to love that part of " the carf/i which lies/(id, and condemn that which lies open to them! Sroie bu.'dogs, others horses; some delight in having large possessions, " which they may call their own, and would command multitude.s, when they are not able to command themselves. Tiiey marry wives, and in a " sliort time are divorced; they love, and then hate; they take delight in children, and when they are grown up, disinherit them; they war, and " despise peace: they conspire against kings, imndcr men, dig the earth to find .silver, with the silver they have found, tliey buy land; what the land wliich they have bouglit yields, of corn or fruits, they sell, and receive silver again. To what changes and misfortunes are they subject! •' When they possess not riches, they desire them, w'hen they are acquired, they are hid, or scattered. I laugh at tlicir ill-designed projects, I “ laugh at Ihcir misfortunes. Ilicy violate the laws of truth, through contention and enmity with one anullier; bretlircn, parents, and country- men fight and kill each other, for those possessions, of which, after death, none can be possessors. They pursue an unjust course of life; they “ despise tlie poverty of their friends and country; mean and inanimate tilings they account for riches: they will part with a whole estate to " purchase statues, because the statue seems to speak; but.those who speak, indeed, they hate. They affect thuigs difificult to be acquired; " they who dwell in tlie continent, covet the productions of the sea; they wlio inhabit islands, those of the continent; perverting all th nigs to *' their own depraved desires. In war they praise valor, while they are daily subdued by luxury, avarice, and all passions; and in the course " of his life, every man is a ThersiteS. Why did you, Hippocrates, reprove my laughter? No man laughs at his own insanity, but at the mad- " ness of another. They who think themselves to be sober, laugh at those who appear to them to be drunk : some laugh at lovers, whilst they " themselves are sick of a worse di.-teiuper; some at those who travel by sea, others at those who follow husbandry; for men do not agree with one another, neither in arts, nor actions. All this, said I, Democritus, is Iriie; neither is there any argument that may better prove the *' unhappy state of man; but 'these actions are caused through necessity, by reason of the government of families, the building of ships, and other civil offices, wherein a man must necessarily be employed; for nature did not produce him, to be idle. Again, height of am- ** bition causes several men to deviate from the paths of justice; they aim at all things, as if there were notiiing immoral; not being able to foresee the darkness that attends their futile attempts. For, Democritus, what man is there, that, when he marries, tliinks of divorce, or '* death? Who is there, who, while he educates children, thinks cf losing them ? The like on husbandry, navigation, dominion, and all other " offices of life. No man foresees, that bis expectations may prove abortive ; but every one flatters himself with hopesof good success, and does not " anticipate the worst. Why therefore is this ridiculous ? Democritus replied. You are yet far from understandiug me, Hippocrates, neither per- " ccive, through want of knowledge, tlie bounds of serenity and perturbation; for if they ordered these things prudently, they might easily dis- " ciiarge their duty, and evade ray laughter; whereas now, they are blind to the offices of life, and with minds void of reason, are carried away by •' inordinate apfietite's. It were enough to make them wise, if they would but consider the mutability of things, how they wheel about continually, " and are suddenly changed; whereas they, looking upon these as firm and settled, fall into many inconveniences and troubres, and correcting " things injurious, they tumble headlong into many miseries. But if a man would riglitly consider, and weigh in his mind all things th.it he attempts, “ understanding ftinisf/G and his own abilities, he would not let his desires run to infinite, but follow nature ; out of whose store all are nourished and “ supplied. As a corpulent body is in the greatest danger of sickness, so a high estate is in the greatest danger of falling. Great minds arc known in “ extremities. Some there are, who, taking no warning by that which happeneth to others, perish by their own ill actions ; minding things manifest, “ no more tlian though they were not manifest; whereas they have many precedents to guide their life, of things effected and not effected, by “ which we ought to foresee the future. This is the occasion of ray laugliing. Foolish men punished by their own wickedness, covetousness, lust, " enmity, treachery, conspiracy, envy ; it is a hard thing to give a name to many of these evils, they being imur erable, and practised so privately. " Their behaviour as to Virtue is still worse; they affect lies, they follow pleasure, disobeying the law's: my laughter condemns their inconsiderateness, “ who neither see nor hear; srhcrcas the sense of man only, of all others, is able to foresee future events. They hate all things, and then again f apply