( *'« ) learned languages, terras, definitions, and constituent par- ticles of substances; these are the primary objects in medi- cal education and instruction. II. These are applied, first, to pharmacy, and all the junior pupils of the second and third class, are monthly, in rotation, employed in preparing the numerous prescriptions of an unbounded and extensive practice, and knowing the purposes for which they are prescribed.* III. When capable, they have their month in rotation, to dress patients, and attend the surgery department in the surgery wards; and all the pupils, without distinction, are present at surgical operations, and extispiscial inquiries, or examination of the causes of death, in the dissecting room, where they are in the constant habit of observing the various Ravages of different diseases they have seen and attended dur ing life, and they acquire, by this' means, no small know- ledge in anatomy. Dr. Hooper kindly gives the ptipils im- portant lectures; which, advanced in life as 1 am, I rarely fail of attending, well knowing, by long experience, that this is the only true mode of cstalilishing real and improved ac- cessions to science. IV. From their first entrance as students they attend my practice round the house, and are occasionally informed of its rationale ; where the wards are arranged in the following order.t The pupils are occasionally examined concerning the diseases, causes, indications, and contra-indications, and receive clinical instructions, at the bed side of the sick. The arrangement adopted facilitates science, and many acquire the experiaice ol aged tnen, long before they are twenty years old. It may be pronounced now, from experiment, that nothing can be compared, or devised, equal to an early education in all the branches and extensive duties of the pro- fession. It is a saving of ten years in the life of man, and if the sentence of the divine Hippocrates be true, wliirh has never been denied, that life is short, the art long , it must follow, that those who are earliest initiated into the very fundamental principles, and who see them confirmed daily by practical experience, must take precedency in science of all those • There is a formula medicament orum, of my arranging, containing the prescriptions used, f 2 Cenvalescenr ,]fiyge airy wards for men and women, .separate. 2 /'yr#!riaf wards, for the admission of febrile diseases. i 2 Chronic wards, for different species of chronic diseases. 2 Pulmonic wards, for perinneuinony, pleurisy, various'coughs, asthma, empyema, &c. 2 Small-pox wards, for the reception of variolous patients. 2 Casual wards, for particular cases. 4 W’ards on the upper part of the house, for venereal patients. 4 Large wards for surgery patients, on the ground floor. 2 ^Vards for the treatment of the itch. A large cold bath and dissecting room, with appropriate conveniences. On every floor water-closets, and in every ward portable water closets, for those who are incapable of quitting their wards ; by which means all the wards are preserved fipm fecal and ofl’ensive scents, lu the uppermost part of the wards, near the ceiling, die apertures for the exclusion of all Lul air, hydrogen, gas, &c. by which means every ward is as sweet as any gentleman’s house. At a distance from these wards, is a large lying-in ward, and an airy apartment for particular midwifery cases. Large airy wards in the uppermost part of the house, for infants, children, and their mothers. Over the head of every patient, in all the wards, is the name, age, and disease, of each individual patient. In the middle of each ward, on tables, arc stands, perforated to hold bottles, with printed directions, for the accurate ad- ministration of remedies, and indicating those who are allowed wine, porter, ike. as their cases may require. All round the house there arc passages for the poor to walk, with bi-nches ; in the upper part glazed ; in the lower open; and at certain hours the men, at other hours the women, able, are permitted to walk in a large garden. in apartments appropriated to the purpose, all the sick, on admittance, have their cloaths entirely taken off, their bodies are washed, cleansed, and purified, and then are put on the clean hospital dresses. Whatever cloathing they come in with is cleaned, put into a large repository, and ticketed, and, when cured and discharged, they receive all they brought, with ne- 'ecssary additions, if requisite. In all the large and numerous wards, where the indigent, not afflicted with disease, are cloathed and nourished, the same cleanliness and regularity pervades the whole. Ti.e younger persons of both sexes are employed in different manufactures, that requ.ro industry, and not much skill, and they have some smalt allowance of money for themselves, as an incitement to assiduity. The aged arc indulged, the sick attended, and all the objects of distress are comforted and rendered as happy as their condition can possibly allow them. The insane, to the amount of above fifty men and women, are monthly attended and prescribed tor, at Bethnal Green ; and in the last year, twenty unfortunates, of this description, were removed from the mad- house, nineteen of whom remain well. Besiiiesihe immense number of the poor in the house and infirmary, many hundreds are relieved both in sickness and poverty with atieiulance, medicine, and mono}', out of the house, in the dificrent parts of that extensive and opulent quarter of London, the St. Mary-le-bone parish. In short, humanity and liberality march hand in hand, to relieve the necessitous ■and afflicted, and to the honour of the noblemen and gentlemen directors and guardians of the poor, nothing is proposed worthy of attention that is not complied with ; nor no expence spared, that can, in the least, alleviate human misery. All is 'conducted on the most striking and laudable principles of universal benevolence, and yet with strict economy. A stronger proof of the great utility ol the hospital plan and modes of treatment, than in the report for 1802, cannot be exhibited ; in Avhich it was remarked that out of between 4 and 500 patients, in .scarlet fever, with putrid sore throat, only three died ; not one in an hundred, which exceeds the success given in my treatise, on the modes adopted fot curing those and other putrid diseases,&c. &c.