9. The daily dissection being finished, the bod)% or parts, should be accurately covered, and every thing ought ( 2 } V. Division. The principal parts of Anatomy are: ' ■ iL 1. Osteology which examines bones, their structure and connexions. 2. Syndesmology explains the ligaments and their uses. S. Myology contemplates and shews the muscles and their actions. ' 4. Angiology expounds the difference of vessels in the human body. * 5. Neurology demonstrates the nervous system and distribution of the nerves. v- 6. AdENOlogy teaches the structure and offices of glands. 7. Splanchnology explains the viscera and their functions. " 8. Hygrology considers the human fluids. W VI. The means by which a knowledge of Anatomy is perfected, ares y ]. By artificial dissections of the human body. 2. An accurate demonstration of parts. ' 3. A perspicuous explication. 4. The reading of modern anatomical authors. The Anatomical Instruments. 1. Before dissection, needles are to be ready. 2/ Thread, and that it may be stronger it should be waxed,' to serve for ligatures, or for tying any part. 3. Scalpels, or dissecting knives, made with the best tempered steel, and a larger one for cutting the cartilages of the ribs, or other purposes. 4. A dissecting hook, or tenaculum, to lay hold of any part. 5. A hone to sharpen the knives, when blunted. -r 6. Sponges should be ready to cleanse parts and to dry up crubr,'’ or any humidity. 7. Probes to explore the progress of vessels, &c. 8. Scissars are required to cut membranes, &c. 9. A blow pipe is necessary for whatever may require inflation. 10. A small pair of bellows should be ready to inflate larger parts. 11. A saw to open the cranium. 12. An elevator to raise the bone already sawed. 13. Besides these, wedges, a hammer, syringes for vessels, &c. tubes for injecting quicksilver, and a microscope for examining minute parts are necessary. Pails, basons, pans, water, cloths, and a marble table arc appendages of the dissecting room. VII. Some general precepts to be observed in dissections. 1. No person should be admitted to dissections, but those who devote themselves to the] medical or chirugical art, except learned philosophical investigators. 2. The time mostelegible for anatomical administrations is winter. 3. The cadaver, or dead body, should be first cleansed from all impurity. 4. The roem of administration should be cool. 5. 1 he place in which dissections are performed should be light. 6. The dead body, in public dissections, should be placed on a versatile table, that the Students, or Auditors, should see the subject, by turning the table in different directions. 7. The hand, in operating, should be held suspended. 8. Humidity should be often absorbed by a sponge. to appear as neat as possible. 10. Persons admitted to dissections should observe secrecy, and never speak of those subjects, which, though indispensably necessary to the Faculty, fill the minds of the rest of mankind with horror. M~w: