XV HISTORY OF MEDICINE Calcn tells us that Aristotle was considerably engaged in dissections, and made many discoveries in the art, for which he reckons him amongst the best anatomists, and according to Diogenes Laertius he not only wrote eighi books on anatomy, but compiled a great work of fifty volumes on de natura animalium, which history tells us he was induced to execute at an enor- mous expence defrayed by Alexander the Great. Pliny gives the following account of it: “ Aliquot millia hominum in totius Asia: Wisdom is certainly allied to every one ; but especially to us who live so near her. Know for certain, that future ages will acknowledge themselves " obliged to thee, if thou desert not Democritus, for he is capable of communicating the truth to all mankind. Thou art allied to Aisculapius by thy " family, and by thy profession. He is descended from the brother of Hercules, from whom came Abderus, whose name, as you have heard, our “ city bears; wherefore, even to him, will the cure of Democritus be acceptable. Since therefore, Hippocrates, you see a whole people, and a " most excellent person, falling into madness, hasten, we beseech you, to us. It is strange, that the exuberance of good should become a disease. " Democritus, by how much he excelled others in acuteness of wisdom, is now in so much the more danger of being mad, whilst the common, nn- “ learned people of Abdera enjoy their sense.s as formerly; and even they, who before were esteemed very foolish, are now most capable to discern “ the indisposition of the wisest person. Come, therefore, and bring along with you ^J^scalapius, and Epione, the daughter of Hercules, and her “ children, who went in the expedition against Troy: bring with you the receipts and remedies against sickness. The earth plentifully affords fruits, " roots, herbs, and flowers to cure madness, and never more happily than now, for the recovery of Democritus. Farewell. “ Hippocrates returned this answer: Hippocrates to the Senate of Abdera. Health. " Your countryman Amclesagoras arrived at Cos that day on which was celebrated the Assumptiori of the rod, which, as you know, is an annual as- " scmbly and solemn feast amongst us, held at a cypress tree, which is carried by those parlicularly consecrated to the god. But finding by the words “ and countenance of Amelesagoras, that your business required much haste, I read your letter, and much wondered to find your city' no less troubled for " one man, than if the whole city w'erc but one man. Happy indeed are the people, who know that wise men are their defence; not walls and bul- ■' warks, hut the sound judgment of wise persons. I conceive the arts are the dispensations of the gods, men the works of nature; and be not angry, •' ye men of Abdera, if I conceive, that it is not you, but nature itself, which calls me to preserve her work, which is in such imminent danger of falling. " Wherefore, obeying that which is the invitation of nature and of the gods, rather than yours, I shall make haste to cure the sickness of Democritus, " if it be a sickness ; and not, as I hope, an error in you It would be yet a greater testimony of ycur good will, if you were troubled only on suspi- " cion. Neither nature nor the gods have promised me any thing for my coming; and therefore, men of Abdera, do not you force any thing upon me ; " but suffer the works of a liberal art to be free. They who take rewards, compel sciences to s':rvitude, and make them slaves, depriving them of their free- " dora. lle.sides, it is possible, that such may dissemble in a great disease, and deny in a little; and when they have promised, «of come, and come, " when they are Jiof sent for. Miserable indeed is human life; for that the insatiate desire of ueuftli continually invades it, as a winter wind 1 I wish “ that all physicians would join together to cure it of this disease, which is worse than madness ; notwithstanding it is thought hajipy, but is indeed a " pestilential sickness All distempers of the mind are, as I conceive, high madness ; for they excite, in the reason, strange opinions and fancies; ” which reason must be purified, and cured by virtue. As for me, if I at all made it my design to be rich, I would not, ye men of Abdera, come fo you " for ten talents; but would rather have gone to the great king of Persia, where there are vast cities full of all kind of wealth : there I would have practised phy sic; but 1 refused to cure a nation which are enemies to Greece ; and to the best of my power have myself opposed the Barbarians. •' I thought it a dishonour to accept the wealth of a king, foe to our country, by which means I miglit become a destroyer of Greece To get wealth, " by all means, is not to be rich; the principles of virtue are sacred and just. Do you not think it an equal offence .to cure our enemies, as to take “ money for the cure' of our friends ? Butthis is not my custom. 1 raise no wealth out of siehiess ; nor did 1 wish when I heard Democritus was mad, that •' it might prove so in reality : if he should be well, he is a friend ; if he happen to be cured of his sickness, more a friend. I understand that De- “ moentus is a person of firm and settled parts, the ornament of your city*. f •“ It IS said that Hippocrates, in order to perform this voyage, sent to his friend Dionysius to take care of his family in his absence ; to Damagetus, *' that he would provide a ship; to Cratevas, that he would furnish him with medicaments. *' How Hippocrates was received the next day at Abdera, he gives the following description to his friend Damagetus. To Damagetus. Health. " It was, as 1 conjectured, Damagetus; Democritus is not mad; but is extraordinary wise; and hath taught us wisdom; and with us, all mcn- •• I have sent back, with many thanks, the Aisculapian ship, on the prow whereof, to the picture of the sun, may be added health; for we made a " quick voyage, and arrived the same day, that I had sent word, I could be at Abdera. I found all the people flocking togctlier at the gale, in ex- * pcctation, as it appeared, of oux coming; not only men, but women, the old and the young, and by Jove, the very children; so much were “ they " • Artaxerxes offered an hundred talents to Hippocrates to come into Asia, and cure a pestilence, which desolated the provinces and array. The *' sura, in silver talents, is supposed to be 35,00CM in gold about 400,0001. This shews the great riches of the Asiatics, and the patriotic virtue of that « noble Greek to resist the temptation ; though the island was threatened with a dangerous war, Wen have been less scrupulous in our refined times; “ whenever they have an opportunity of acquiring immense wealth, per fas vel nefas..