HISTORY OF MEDICINE. XX fiducatefl for medicine by liifi fiitlicr Keraclides, after tlic manner of the .Tlsclepiades, and must have received extensive me- dical information from tlietabulae, hung up either in tlie temple at Cos or Cnido, all of which he copied, and described, in- lei-spersing them with his own observations ; these were left to posterity. Some believe that Hippocrates was a disciple of Democritus, but there are no documents extant to prove this opinion, and if he learned any thing from him, it should rather seem to have been in the friendly conversation, or correspondence that existed between them, when Democritus was fur ad- ■vanced in years and Hippocrates in the meridian of life. After the death of his parents, he left his own country, travelled about considerably, and died in Thessaly, but it is not known, for certain, in what year his death happened. Some, however, assert that he died at Larissa in the eighty-fifth year of his age, others maintain that he lived to one hundred and eight. He possessed the most excellent moral virtues, and his manners were unexceptionable; we have a just proof of his modesty and veracity, by the candour with w hich he relates the unfortunate termination of complaints, which, indeed, he seems rather to have chosen than the successful, and his frankness in confessing errors: on which account he merits the elegant panegyric bestowed on him by Celsus, Lib. VHi. cap. iv. “ A “ siitiiris sc deception esse, Hippocrates mcmoriit tradidit, more scilicet magnorum virorum ctJidiiciam magnarum rerum habentium. “ Nam Iwi ia iiigcnia, quia nihil habent, nihil sibi delrahunt. Magno ingenio multaquc nihilominus habituro, co/nenit etiam simplex “ leri erroris confessio, jmvcipvcque in eo ministerio, quod utilitatis causa posteris traditur; nc qui decipiantur eadem ratione, qua “ quis ante deceptus cst.” He was well acquainted with philosophy, and Celsus says, followed the dogmas of Heraclitus, he made a proper distinction between that study and medicine, and was a man of great science and w’it; he totally confined himself to practical observa- tions and empirical experience ; but at the same time always endeavoured to make a proper advantage of using analogy, by carefully drawing conclusions from frequently reiterated experiments, and most of them are found to be true, in the present day. On this account, he w'as certainly the first who laid the foundation of dogmatic medicine, which, though not perfect in. all its parts, yet was such as to gain universal approbation, and serve as a model in every age. It has been disputed, whether he practised anatomy on the human subject. Le Clerc and Schulz deny it, but Haller, who must be considered the best judge in this controversy, declares it evident from passages in the book de Articulis, which is ad- mitted to be genuine. “ Corpora humana et de industria quideni ah Hippocrate incisafuisse, ut qui conjirmet suam sententium ex “ anatomico experirnento in quo claxicula occurrit, homini ita pene propria particula, ut ex alio ccnimali earn Hippocrati innotuisse “ m'lnime videatur” None can deny but that lie was familar with osteology, and also well skilled in surgery, as sufTiciently appear by his writings, from which it is clear that surgery, in those times, was a branch of medicine, and practised universally by physicians; and Haller declares, that the surgical writings of Hippocrates, on wounds of the head, fractures, and on the joints, excel his other works. He wrote his books on medicine, in Greek, following the Ionic dialect, and ought to be deservedly reckoned by all posterity, the chief of ancient medical authors ; but amongst so many books bearing the name of Hippocrates, there may be some spurious, not forged in these times, but either by his sons, his son in law. Polybus, or by his pupils, or some later Hippocrates. The difference of style, and frequent reasoning interspersed in many places, which Hippocrates himself was certainly very averse to, shew the fabrication : for which reason, Le Clerc considers all the books of Hippocrates spurious, that abound in reasonings. There are a great many various editions of the works of Hippocrates; that published by Poesius in folio, Greek and Latin, is one of the best. Renatus Charterius gave a very good edition, thirteen vols. folio, at Paris, in l679> in which are included the whole works of Galen, and an index of corrections and variae Icctiones at the end of each volume. Some prefer thelatin edition by John Marinclli, in three vols. folio, published at Venice, 1737, from its being more compendious j and useful, because in the second volume, all the parallel places in Hippocrates are shewn, and there is a most complete index by Pinius, w hich fills the third. As to the family of Hippocrates, Galen tells us, he had two sons, Thessalus and Draco ; each of whom had a son, named Hippocrates. Thessalus, says Galen, neither altered nor diminished the dogmas of Hippocrates: he was an'admirable character, though he did not remain in his own country, like Polybus, but attached himself to Archclaus, king of Macedonia. Nothing is mentioned, in particular, about Draco, except that his son cured Roxana, wife of Ale.xander the Great, and was her Physician; yet this is doubted by many, and remains unproved. Rut Polybus, a native of Cos, and son-in-law to Hippocrates, chiefly interested himself for the family, whom Galen greatly esteemed, and praised—calling him the disdpl®^