( 134 ) THE LARYNX 1 THE FAUCES Form a bavi^ behind the tongue and the velum palatinum. THE UPPER PART Is formed by the basilary process of the occipital bone. THE ANTERIOR PART IS FORMED BY 1. The posterior foramina of the nostrils. 2. The uvula, which is a part I'csembling a gland, hanging down from the palatine bones. 3. The ainygdalaj, or glandular parts, adhering to the sides of velum palatinum. 4. The velum pendulum, which is a membrane behind the uvula, like an arch, hanging from the palatine bones. The posterior part of the fauces'is formed by the bodies of the cervical vertebrae. The inferior part is formed by the larynx and pharynx. The sides are formed by the petrous process of the temporal bones, by which the Eustachian tubes go into the fauces, and open behind the amygdalae. USE. To. assist deglutition, or swallowing, respiration. THE PHARYNX Is a muscular sac, like a funnel, adhering to the fauces be- hind the larynx, and terminates in the oesophagus. THE OESOPHAGUS Is a muscular tube, descending from the pharynx to the stomach. SITUATION. Is behind the trachea, and before the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, a little to the left; then, in the cavity of the posterior mediastinum, it goes through the left foramen of the diaphragm, and terminates in the cardia, leading into the stomach. the SUBSTANCE IS OF FOUR MEMBRANES! 1. A common membrane. 2. muscular. 3. nervous expansion. 4. villous. USE. For deglutition. Is a cartilaginous cavity, situated behind the tongue, at the anterior part of the fauces, and consists of five cartilages; severa muscles; internally, of a sensible membrane. THE CARTILAGES ARE , 1. The annular, or cricoid cartilage, forming the inferior i part, on which the others rest. ' 2. The thyroid, or scutiform cartilage, which is broad, and situated upon the annnlar, or cricoid cartilage, form- < ing the anterior part of the larynx. 3. The epiglottis, which is a membranous elastic cartilage, adhering to the superior part of the scutiform carti- lage, and can be pressed backwards. 4. Two arytenoid cartilages, situated at the posterior and la- I teral margins of the annular, or cricoid cartilage, and I bend forwards; by these means there is an opening i between them, which is called the rima glottidis. USE. It is the organ of voice, and assists in respiration. , THE TRACHEA Is a tube made of rings, partly cartilaginous, and partly fleshy, descending before the oesophagus from the larynx into the thorax, and there dividing into two branches, called the bronchia. The bronchia, after having entered the substance of the lungs, divide into innumerable branches, which at last ter- minate in the air cells of the lungs. The cartilaginous rings of the trachea and bronchia, are not entirely cartilaginous; but at their posterior part, muscular. The internal surface of the larynx, trachea, bronchia, and vesicles of the lungs, arc covered with a membrane full of glands, which secrete a mucus. The anterior surface of the trachea is covered by the muscles, called stunio-hyoideus, and sterno thyroidcus. USE. To assist respiration, speech. TFIE THORAX Is a cavity, situated between the neck and abdomen : it is called thorax, breast, or chest. SHAPE. Resembles a bee-hive; at the lower part, it is. broad and concave, fi'cm the convexity of the diaphragm: the upper part is much narrower.—Absurd fashions in dress, however, have changed all the intentions of original figure in the human body ; tight whale-bone stays