Ixxx HISTORY OF MEDICINE to happiness, to attain the appellation of a philosopher. For the chief end of philosophy, according to their notions, was to b« happy, and every one modestly considered his own method of attaining it the best, though their ways are as various as the roads to the metropolis. As to the different opinions, we pass them over in silence, and only notice those that have affected the art of medicine. For they have obtruded their doctrines into our art, without knowing any thing of the art itself. After Hippocrates, it soon happened that two sectaries in physic opposed each other ; the one it seems enlisted under the banners of that celebrated philosopher, Aristotle, and assumed the appellation of methodists ; the others in appearance, were fol- lowers of Pyrrho, the first founder of the Sceptics, and called themselves empirics. Now, though it will clearly appear, that physic has no relation whatever with the opinions of philosophers; yet, it has been the rock physicians have split on in all ages ; for they have endeav'oured to introduce, the most absurd and useless speculations, into an art, that is only practical; and, in general, dependant on the evidence of the senses. We do not intend delivering all the opinions of the philosophers concerning the most abtruse hidden works of nature; for this would be an endless attempt; but as Aristotle has been admired and quoted, on all occasions, by physicians, to confirm the most absurd doctrines, it becomes an indispensible duty, in this work, to give some idea of his, and other principal doctrines; but first it will be necessary to say something of difference between the dogmatists and Sceptics. The difference then, between the dogmatic philosophers and sceptics, seems to be this; the first suppose they well under- stand many things in nature, which the latter consider incomprehensible. One believes his speculations and opinions worthy of reception, and supports his pretension by the most subtle arguments; the other, disbelieving every thing not manifest, suspends his entire belief, on a principle that the secrets of nature are not within the sphere of human comprehension. The sceptics defend their incredulity of the dogmatic assertions of philosophers, because no two agree together on one subject. For instance, the various notions of material principles. Phericides, the Syrian, asserted the earth to be the principles of all things; Tliales, the Milesian, water; Anaximander, his disciple, infinite; Anaximenes, and Diogines Appollionatcs, air; Ilippasus, the Metapontine, fire; Xenophanes, the Colophonian, earth and water; Euripides, the Chian, fire and air; Hippo, of Rhegium, fire and water; Onomacritus, in his Orphics, fire, water, and earth: not to speak of matter void of quality, which some have prodigiously fancied, but not understood. The followers of Aristotle, the Peripatetics, a circular moving body, consisting of fire, air, water, and earth; Democritus and Epicurus, atoms. Anaxagoras, the Claaomenian, Homoiomerics ; Diodorus Cronus, least and indivisible bodies; Heraclides, of Pontus, and jEsclcpiades, of Bythinia, uncom- j pounded bulks, or little bodies; the Pythagoreans, numbers; the Mathematicians, the terms of bodies; Strato, the naturalist, 1 qualities. Such, or yet greater, being the controversy among philosophers, about the principles of matter, we must | cither assent to all their opinions of the elementary principles, or to some. Now, if we cannot assent to all these opinions of ’ the elements, nor to some of them, we must suspend our judgment. These are the notions of the Sceptics ; and they farther say, that perceiving in all controversies concerning the elements, they are held either to be bodies, and incorporeal, wo con- ceive it sufficient to prove, that both bodies, and incorporeals, arc incomprehensible. A body (some of them say) they think doeth or suffereth ; but, according to this notion, it is incomprehensible. For not being able to say, whether there b« a cause, we cannot say whether there be an agent; for the agent suffers from the cause. Thus both the cause and the agent, being incomprehensible, a body also must be incomprehensible. Many ingenious arguments are produced by the Sceptics, to prove the impossibility of comprehending the received opinions on various subjects, as delivered by the dogmatists; strongly inculcating a modest suspension of our opinion on intricate and disputable points, (e) But a contrary conduct to this, strongly characterises the other philosophers; for these, with a boldness and authority, which have ever produced irreparable injury to society, think nothing, however intricate, above the reach of their capacities. When the evidence of the senses, or demonstration, failed, (f) then a loose is given to the imagination, and the soid for a while leaving the body, as some of them pretended, took its airy flight, and contemplated the mysteries of nature; and left, as a legacy to after ages, their visionary dreams,called by some, philosophy. Others, less adventurous, and living in ages more refined, and consequently more liable to detection, have traversed over all the wide extensive empires of learning; and, on a principle that they have excelled in some few branches of science, have, by a prostitution of logic, and by mere artifice, .•<0 imposed on the eoramunity, that their defects or falsehoods, for ages, have never been suspected, much less refuted. What ignorance (e) Many timilar hypotheses and disputes continue to this day. if) As SocratM.