■ ( 98 ) PLATE XLVIII. The Circulation of the ‘Blood. The organs of the circulation of the blood. The heart of a man is of a conical figure. The heart (G) adheres by the vena cava to the diaiihragm. The heart consists of four concave mus- cles, viz. tuo auricles, and two ventricles, which receive the blood, and immedi- ately jiropel it. A. The right auricle, filled with blood, and irritated by its repletion, to con- tract, by constringing the ostia of both venal ciiviu. B. The right ventricle, filled with blood, and irritated to muscular contradiction, expands its valvulae tricuspidales (1.) C. I hepulmonary artery, compresses the blood by its elastic resilition, and sti- mulated tension, as well as by the re- laxed capillary arteries. The pulmonary veins, convey the blood received from the arteries to the left auricle. D. The hfl auricle, filled, and irritated by its repletion to the instrumental motion, contracts itself. E. The left ventricle, filled with blood, and irritated by its repletion to con- tract, expands its 7nitral valves (3.) F. The aorta, and arteiies of the body filled, and expanded with blood, and irritated to contract, collect all their power at tiiat time, composed of elas- tic redlition, and stimulated tension; anrl at once protrude the blood by the semilunar valves^ G. '['he iiiferior cava', it joins the heart with the diaphragm. Arc the heart and arteries. In birds, and brutes, it resembles almost a perfect cone. The whole of its flattened surface lies upon the diaphragm. The cavities stimulated by their repletion contract; the valves prevent the return of the blood, when received; the fibres being so disposed, that by^ their con- tractile power, they send out the blood with great violence. Then the muscular fibres, stretched from the parietes of the auricle, elliptically surround each vena cava, which so closes both as to prevent the return of the blood into the veins. The valves mutually compressed together, entirely prevent the return of blood into the right auricle. And, by its first impetus, compresses the semilunar (2.) valves, at that time re- laxed. This takes place during the compression of the lungs in respiration. And so constringes the ostia of the pul- monary veins, as to prevent the return of the blood into them. (3.) The mitral valves, so expanded, and compressed w ith blood, prevent the re- turn of the blood into the left auricle. The return of the blood into the ventri- cle is prevented by the valves being de- pressed. Receives the blood from all the parts below the diaphragm. By their power the blood is propelled info every part of the body. It is the primary organ of the circulation. During the motion of the diaphragm, the heart is either elevated, or de- pressed. The oftices of the auricles are : that they should divide the blood, or its various particles, into just parts, by keeping its circulating course, kc.' The contraction of the auricle protrudes the blood into the right ventricle, with a force sufficient to overcome the na- tural (not instrumental) contraction of the ventricle. The contraction of the ventricle throws the blood into the pulmonary artery with a force equal to overcome the elastic power of that artery. Thus the blood is prevented from return- ing into the ventricle, and is thrown into the pulmonary veins. The blood is impelled into the left auricle, then relaxed with a force superior to the natural (not instrumental) con- traction of the auricle. The following contraction protrudes the blood into the left ventricle. The following contraction impels the blood into all the arteries of the body, with an impetus superior to Uie elastic I power of the arteries. This protruding power throws almost an ; equal quantity of limpid, and gross } blood, collected from every part of the ‘ body, through the vena cava into the | right auricle, then relaxed. Joined with the superior c.iva; it sends ‘ the blood into the right auricle. The circulation of the blood, briefly considered, is as follows:—The vena cava forces the blood into the right auricle of the heart, which discharges it into the right ventricle; from thence the blood is propelled to the pulmonary artery, and brought back, by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle of the heart, which | forces it into the left ventricle, and from thence it passes to the aorta, which, by branches, distributes the it blood through the whole body. The blood is brought back to the vena cava from all parts by veins. All g ! this has been indubitably proved. The exhalent arterie.s on all surfaces, the inhaling absorbents, &c. arefl very important, and should be well comprehended in medical practice, I ■