8. The ( >3' ) €. The pituitary gland is not a brain-like substance, but a real gland, situated in a diiplicature of the dura mater in the cavity of the sella turcica. 7. Two crura of the cerebrum, are medullary substances, arising from the bottom of the brain, and terminating at the pons Varolii. THE AUTERIES OF THE BnAlTI AUE 'Branches of the two internal carotids, and vertebral arteries. I NERVES. inie brain has no nerves, but sends off nine pair, and is the origin of nerves. VEINS. |Beturning from the cortical substance, empty themselves into the tvvemy-two sinuses of the dura mater. USE. Some say, the cortical substance, which is vascular, to ' secrete subtile invisible fluids, contained in the tubuii of the medullary substance, w hich excites the internal and external senses; also, the muscles to action. This is meiely conjecture, and hatn not been proved. 1 —bee Treatise on Nerxous Diseases, THE CEREBELLUM, or SMALLER BRAIN, lls situated in the inferior occipital fossa, under the tentorium. SHAPE. Somewhat round. I DIVISION. Into right and left lobe, by the septum of the cerebellum. SUBSTANCE. Externally, cortical; internally, it is medullary, like the brain. I THE PROMINENCES ARE Ifwo crura of the cerebellum, going from the medullary ; substance, and terminating in the pons Varolii. jrhe cerebellum has no cavities, nor ventricles. I USE. The same as the cerebrum. I j THE IMEDULLA OBLONGATA. ]fhis is composed entirely of the medullary substance, lying upon the basilary process of the occipital bone, formed by the crura of the cerebrum, and of the cerebellum. ' ' * inthisweobserve L The pons Varolii, a convex body on the superior surface of the medulla oblongata. lb The corpora pyramidalia are two internal medullary pro- I ndnences. 3. The corpora olivaria are similar, though external promi- nences, which four constitute the inferior surface, and termination of the medulla oblongata. THE MEDULLA SPINALIS. This is a continuation of the medulla oblongata, descending into the vertebral cavity, through tne great occipital foramen, as far as tl^e third lumbar vertebra. shape. ts cylindrical, (at the end) ; it terminates in different nerves, which form the cauda equina. COVERINGS. Are a sheath from the dura matcr^ pia mater, and membrana arachnoides. substance. Externally, medullary ; internally, cortical. USE. To send off thirty pair of spinal nerves, for the purposes of sensation, and nervous influence. THE EYE. THE parts forming THE EYE ARE Divided into those within the bulb, and without the bulb. THE PARTS OUTSIDE OF THE BULB ARE 1. The supercilia, or eye-brows, are two arches of hair, situ- ated above the orbit. 2. The cilia, or eye lashes, growing from the tarsus, or edge of the eye-lid. 3. The eye-lids, or palpebrse^one of which is superior; the other inferior.—These have cartilaginous margins, which are called tarsi. At the margin of the tarsus tjiere are some glands, called hleobomiaii. 4. The lachrymal gland, situated in a peculiar cavity of the frontal bone, above the external canthus, or corner , of the eye ; from this gland, six, or more small canals proceed, called lachrymal ducts, which open on the internal surface of the eye lid. 5. The lachrymal caruncle, which is situated at the internal corner, or angle of the eye. 6. The puncta lachrymalia, or lachrymal points, which are two cartilaginous callous openings, near the extremity of each tarsus, at the internal corner of tlie eye: one of which is on the superior; the other in the in- ferior cye-lid. 7. The lachrymal canals are two narrow tubes, leading from the lachrymal points to the lachrymal sac. /