XXIV HISTORY OF MEDICINE Part of what we drink goes into the lungs ; (z) because if you give a swine drink, coloured with red vermillion, or any such like thing, and presently cut his throat, you will perceive the iisperia arteria, coloured with the drink. The liquor found in the pericardium, (a) is a part of what we drink. The great artery, includes more^ heat than the vena cava ; and is the reservoir of the spirit r6 irnvyM there are, as yet, (b) other veins in the body, besides these two. As to that, which has the largest cavity, and is fixed to the heart, it runs through all the belly, and diaphragm; and sends a branch to each kidney, and at the loins, it divides, and sends branches to other parts, and to both legs. Above the heart, also, this vein divides itself to the right, and left; and, mount- ing to the head, distributes itself to each temple. To this may be joined other veins, which are, also, very large; but, in one word, all the several veins which are dispersed over the whole body, proceed from the vena cava, and the artery. The largest veins of the human body, are disposed in this manner : there are four pair in all. The first pair, arise from behind the head, descending by the exterior part of the nape of the neck, on each side the spine, reach the hip and thighs ; and passing thence through the legs, they reach the external ankle bones, and feet. For this reason, in pains of the back, or hip, bleeding in the ham, and in the external ankles, affords great relief. The second pair, coming from the head, descend from the ears along the neck ; they arc called the jugular veins, and follow the spine, in its inner parts, till arriving at the loins, they branch out on both sides to the testicles, the thighs, and the insides of the hams ; a\id pass thence, through the internal ancles, to the inner sides of the feet. For this reason, in pains of the testicles, and loins, bleeding in the internal veins of the ham, and ancle, is very useful. The third pair rise from the temples ; and passing from the neck, towards the shoulders, reach the lungs, and from thence passing on one side, from the right to the left, run along the under breasts to join the spleen, and kidneys; and on the other side, passing from the left, to the right, run also by the breast, to the liver and kidneys, and at last they terminate in the strait intestine. The fourth pair, rising from the forehead, and the eyes, pass below the lungs, and clavicles ; and thence, by the superior part of the arm, reach the elbow, the hands, and fingers; and they return again from the fingers, by the palm of the hand, by the elbow, and by the under side of the arm, in order to reach the armpits; and by the superior parts of the ribs on one side of the spleen, and on the other to the liver. These two branches, passing beyond the belly, terminate, at last, at the private parts. 1 here are two intestines, one straight, about the length of twelve cubits, being afterward full of folds, some call it colon; (c) and he observes, that this intestine m man, is like th.at of a dog, but larger. This intestine is fastened to a part, called, mesocolon. The second intestine is furnished with abundance of flesh all round, (d) and it terminates in the anus. The oesophagus, is a funnel, which reaches from the tongue to the stomach, in which part the meat is concocted. In his Lib. dc Aliment, (e) he calls the stomach, the putrifying belly, xoixta but oftener the word coction wtij/irand TTEo-o-iiv to concoct. Digestion is performed, by the heat in the stomach; which, he calls, a part, all nervous, that joins to the liver, on the concave side. The spleen is raw and spongy, and as it were another tongue, (f). The liver abounds with more blood than the rest of the viscera; and to the liver is assigned the office of separating the bile Hwi-TiTir and that it has five lobes. , Hie diaphragm is called the seat of the understanding; (pfmr but this was suspected in the time of Hippocrates, if the book on the falling sickness be his. For there it is said, the part which is called phrenes, is called so falsely, and at random. This name is founded on an opinion, and not on any thing real: for I see not how this part contributes to pru- dence or understanding. All that it performs is, that when any one is surprised, with great and sudden joy, or grief, it beats, and causes a sou of uneasiness, or pain: for it is fine, and moie strongly on the stretch, than any other part of the body; having no telly, »i cavity, to receive what is good or bad; but being alike incumbered with one and the other. This part perceives, or has sense; but it is not the seat of wisdom, no more than the heart. \Vherefore the name of this is as improper, as that ot the cars of the heart, which have no hearing. He says, in one place, it is nervous; in another, that it is tliis membrane that causes madness; when the blood stagnates there, or moves slowly. There (x) Part of wliat wtt drink goes into the lungs. (a) De corde. fb) Lib de carnibus. (c) Libdc anat. (d) Dc Morb Epidem. ^e) LibDcilnat. (/) De moth mulier.