HISTORY OF MEDICINE XXIX A woman pregnant, is all over of a palid greenish colour; (g) because her pure blood is daily drawn from her, (h) and descends for the nourishment of the foetus. First the infant breaths but little ; (i) and draws a small quantity of blood from the womb : (k) his breathing is increased when it draweth more blood, it descending more plentifully into the matrix. CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE ANATOMY OF HIPPOCRATES. THE anatomical acquisitions of Hippocrates, have been the subject of dispute for several ages. Some of his admirers have asserted, that he understood every .branch of science, equally with the moderns; whilst his detractors, and others, who support the pretensions of the moderns, as being superior to the ancients, will scarce allow him that merit he was justly intitled to. It has been allowed, by several learned men, that it is almost impossible to form a true judgment of the anatomy of Hippocrates. For whatever is written on this branch, is dispersed in different parts of his work ; and in selecting the most impoi tant passages, no inconsiderable labour and judgment are required. Some of the books are supposed spurious, because neither Erotian nor Galen, mention them, and it was five hundred years after his death, before his writings were regularly digested, and published, by Dioscorides, and.Artimidorus, two physicians of Alc-xandria. From these circumstances, some have imagined, that, at dif- ferent periods, after his decease, several passages were fostered into his works, which belonged not to the original. If such an opinion had any foundation in truth, there would have appeared, most probably, some later discoveries, in anatomy, physiology, philosophy, or surgery ; or some of the improvements made by his successors, in the succeeding century. Now, as men in general, are. too tenacious of their discoveries, and improvements, to permit others to assume the honour of their inventions : as none of the succeeding discoveries, either in anatomy, physic, or philosophy, appear in his writings ; as several of his opi- nions perfectly coincide, with those of cotemporary philosophers, as it appears that the opinions in general correspond both in his books, which have been supposed spurious, and those acknowledged legitimate : it should seem, that the work as it now appears, is in general genuine; or at least they are his works, joined with those of his son. Polybus, whose sentiments must have been nearly the same. Some passages in the text may be excepted against ; and the various readings of difl'erent com- mentators might be insisted on; but, as commentators, in all ages, have disputed on trifles ; as they have frequently invelopcd in a cloud what was quite transparent; and as several have indulged themselves in misinterpreting the original meaning of the author, to accommodate his ancient notions, to their modern prejudices : let us pass them over in silence, and uninfluenced by any such confined principles, let him receive praise or censure, according to his merits or detects. The notions of Hippocrates concerning the powers of nature, or that invisible incomprehensible part of man, by which all the animal functions arc performed, are not unworthy of attention. They are quite superior to many speculations that have appeared since; he drew his notions from strict observation ; for, what can be more strictly true, than that nature rejects every thing superfluous and hurtful, and attracts, and assimilates every thing usefulOn this simple notion alone, may we determine on the necessary proportions of diet, exercise, rest, and all human actions ; indeed nature ought to be our monitor in every thing that is received by the human body according to diffei’cnt habits. His elementary principles, and four humours, of blood, phlegm, choler, and melancholy, were introduced in his age ; (1) and he, like the physicians of every age and country, accommodated his writings, to the prevailing philosophy of the times. Though nothing has so much retarded medical improvements, as the slavish and unthinking servility of physicians, to philosophers. On the skin, he seems to have some true notions ; (n) that its colour depended on what humour was under- neath. He had never properly distinguished between arteries, veins, nerves, and tendons, (o) which proves that he had never dissected with any degree of accuracy. He perceived the valves of the great vessels, but these he might be informed of by Democritus, or others, whose curiosity led them to inspect animals. Indeed, his being constantly engaged in the most extensive practice, must have in a great measure, prevented him from contemplating and dissecting for an accurate knowledge in anatomy. (j>) For he says, others who pry into the secrets of nature, wonder much at the structure of the membranes, or valves of the great vessels^ i What Signsof pregnancy. (h) De morb. mulier. (i) Denatur. pueri. (A) He supposed t*ie child br.’athcd in the woipb, (1) His notions of humours, agreeable to the doctrines of philosophers. (m) Its ill effects. (n} Ontheskinhe hadsome truenotkms. (o) Confused in the arteries, nerves, veins, tendons, See. 0>) He laments to Democritus, that he had no time for such studies.