XXXIU HISTORY OF MEDICINE. (r) Coac. prtenol. i. 15. Aph, 46. sect. IV. (sj £pid. XL. 20. Apb 29. Sect. IV. Coac. i. 23. >¥hen there is perceived heat in the feel; and it should not be drank during the operation of the cathartic, (k) But when that ceases, it may be taken in less quantity tlian usual, and to be gradually increased, lie recommends fomentations to the •side, of hot water pat into a bladder, or leather vessel; (1) or milleto made hot, sewed in a bag, and applied in the same manner. If the patient should not receive benefit from the foregoing remedies, profuse bleeding, till the hlood appears florid, or livid, to be taken from the middle vein of the arm. He illustrates and end.avours to confirm, the propriety of administering the ptisan, by observing, that there is great dan* gcr in changing our usual diet, or manner of living in any respect. He observes, that those accustomed to three meals, will be disordered if they omit them ; and the same happens to those, who eat but one meal, if they indulge themselves with a greater number, or more wine than usual. Now, as changes in diet, produce such cflccts, he concludes, that it is equally hazardous, suddenly to empty the vessels; or to pursue those prejudices alr.ady mentioned, in not allowing patients any thing to such a particular day. All these things should be governed by nature ; (m) and agreeable to its variety in dilferent patients. For, he says, sudden and extraordinary changes in things which relate to nature and habits, are the principal causes of diseases. Relative to what has been here explained, much might be said in regard to the stomach, and things of the like kind. As that we bear with ease what we are accustomed to, whether meats, oi drinks, though bad in their nature, (n) And, on the contrary, are incommode<l with the best of food, to which we have not been used. The efi'ccts also of eating much flesh, contrary to custom, or of garlick, oi foj silphuim, or its juice, or cabbage, or any other of that kind, which are endued with some remarkable virtue, might be noticed; but it is no wonder, that these should more than other things dis* turb, and incommode the stomach ; especially, if we have observed, what disturbances, or intumescences, inflations, and gripings, are excited only by maza, (p) in a stomach never accustomed to it. What a sudden repletion, is caused by hot bread, by reason of its drying quality, and slow digestion ? Also what various eft'ects arc produced by the finest bread, as well as the coarser sort, when eaten contrary to custom ; .and by maza, when drier, moistcr, or more viscous than ordinary ? What are the effects of new polanto (q) on those who are not used to it; and how it operates when stale, with such as ^re accustomed to cat new ? What are the consequences of wine and water, being drank contrary to custom, on a sudden, ex- changed one for another ; or of the sudden abandoning our customary drinking, our wine pure, or diluted with water, for the contrary? For one will be sure to produce a redundance of humidities in the stomach, and flatulencies in the lower intestines, and the other a palpitation of the heart, heaviness of the head, and thirst. The changing of wines will produce, the same effects. He observes, that physicians are not very sagacious in distinguishing the cause of weakness; whether it arise from the violence of the disease, emptiness of the vessels. And says, ignorant persons, by the use of common reason, discover the cause of debility when arising from inanition, and frequently to the disgrace of the physician, cure the sick, by only recom- mending some innocent nutritive diet. He illustrates the foregoing observations by many reasonable arguments, which seem to be tlic effect of a close obser\ation on nature. If therefore a sudden altenttiou be made from exercise, and labour, to indolence, and inactivity; the stomach must be Juffered to rest in proportion from the fatigue of digestion ; otherwise for want of this precaution, the body will not fail of iiyury, either by an universal heaviness, or some other disorder* ^ SOME GENERAL OBSERVATIONS OF HIPPOCRATES, ON FEVERS, &c. IF a fit of cold shivering attacks a feverish person, frj he being weak, and the fever not intermitting it is a mortal sign. Those fevers arc with difficulty determined, in (sj which , at the sixth day, extreme cold fits happen. A cold shaking fit k ' coming (k) The ptisan to begiren in less quantity, and gradually increased after the,operation of a purge. . (l) Fomentation to the side. (m) Follows nature and the habits of patients. (jj) A just and indubitable truth yn diet. (o) Silpliuim an herb whereof comes benaoin. Plia. XVIII. 19. ^ ' (p) A thing made of water and oil, ot .as others saj of milk and flower like to flummery. (ijt) Parley and flour dried at the fire, nivl fried after it has laid and soaked one night in water polenta a farina hotdei dktat, es quod toneUur. Plin. XXII, 25. A country food ubi flent ncquam homines, qui poleutam pransilant. Plant, asia .XI. 16. r