xlix HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Hippocrates, however, mentions an instance of a carcinoma of the face being cured by applying an actual cautery to the part, (h) He says, in lib. 5, Epid. she had a carcinoma in her breast, and by carcinoma, the ancients, in general, mean an occult cancer, (i) In his Book De Morb. Mulier, he reckoned among the symptoms of a cancer, the following. The patients have their whole bodies extenuated, their nostrils are dry and contracted, they breathe short, and their sense of smelling is entirely lost. They have, indeed, no pain in their ears, but sometimes callous tubercles are formed in them. DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS, BLADDER, STONE, &c. AN ulcer in the kidneys, or bladder, is discovered by the patients discharging through the urethra, (k) blood or ulcerated matter. But if blood issue freely, a vein is ruptured in the kidneys. (1) h sandy sediment appearing in the urine, signifies a stone in the bladder ; and any one discharging blood, or curdled matter through the urethra, ('wjj or, if the urine should issue by drops, accompanied with a pain in the lower belly, and the perinajum, he is diseased in those parts about the bladder. A strangury and difficulty of discharging the urine, (n) is cured by bleeding, or a draught of wine, but the inward veins must be opened; (o) and those who have a tubercle in the urinary passage, are cured when it is brought \o suppuration, (p) In lib. Prmnot, when speaking concerning the fatal event of diseases of the bladder, he says, indurations and pains of the bladder, are pernicious and dreadful in the utmost degree, especially such as attend a continual fever; for the pains them- selves, being the elfects of convulsion, are enough to destroy the patient; and the belly, at this time makes no excretions, but of a hard substance, and that forced solution is attended with a discharge of purulent matter, depositing a white and thin sediment. But, if after such an evacuation, the pain be not mitigated, nor the bladder mollified, it is to be feared the pa- tient will die in the first periods of the distemper. He recommends in his Book De Intern. Affect, w hen a pain has seized the kidneys, to bathe in a large quantity of hot water, and apply tepid fomentations, especially to the part afflicted. In his Epidem. lib. the fifth, he relates that the servant of Dyseris, in Larissa, whilst young, felt extreme pain in coition, but at other i times was very easy. She was never pregnant. When she was about sixty she was seized with excessive pains like those of labour, in the afternoon having eaten the same day in the morning, a large quantity of 1 eks, she was attacked with more I pain than usual. Upon examination she felt something rough at the orifice of the womb, as large as the spondyl of a distaff, I which was a rough stone, after this she fainted, and it was taken away by another woman. She continued well ever after. , GOUT. GOUTY diseases, are mostly provoked in spring, and autumn; (q) and they cease within forty days after the inflamma- tion is assuaged, (r) Eunuchs are tieither troubled with the gout, nor baldness; (s) and a woman is not afflicted with the gout unless her menses fail her. (t) A. boy is not troubled with the gout till he has used vencry. (u) The general methods of treating the gout, were abstinence, frictions, and purging. CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE MEDICAL PRACTICE OF HIPPOCRATES. FROM a candid examination of the medical practice of Hippocrates, it appcai-s, that the most accurate observations were made on the change of symptoms in acute diseases. The doctrine of signs, whether a patient shall recover or c.xpire; (x) what evacuations were salutary, or unfavourable; when it is necessary to assist by art, and when more eligible to leave the disease to be determined by evacuation, he has left the most excellent precepts. For, what method could be more rational, than ' o to (/»') Lib. 7. Epid. Lji,. o. cap. 20. (k) Intern. Affect. XV. 4, 5. Nat. hum. XXVI. 4. Pr®not. XIX. 11. Aph. 77. Sect. IV. (f) Intern. Affect. XVI. 4. Aph. 78. Sect, IV. (rn) Aph, 80 Sect. IV. (n) Strangury removed by bleeding, &c. io) 11 Epid. VI. 39. Aph. 48. Sect. VII. (p) Aph. 57. Sect. VII. (?) Judicat. VI. 3. Aph. 49. Sect. VI. (r) Aph. 55. Sect. VI. ^ (s) Aph. 28. Sect. VL „ (t) Aph. 29. Sect. VI. 5 Epid. XXXIII. 4. 6 Epid. VIII, 98. 1 Morb. mul. XHI. 6, 11^ (m) Coac, III. 395. Apli. 30. Sect, VI, U) Farticulariy skilful in the doctrine of signs.