Ixxxvi HISTORY OF MEDICINE. He aflirmed, as did Pfaxagoras before'liim, that in a natural state, the arteries contained no blood; and, that they, as well as the left ventricle of the heart, were only filled with air. It was easy to give him the testimony of his own eyes for' this error; but he had recourse to this subterfuge, Assoop, said he, as vve open the left ventricle of the heart, that air, or spirit, is evaporated before we can observe it; and the ventricle is instantly filled with blood; and he asserted the same of the arteries, (g) Galen says, that Erasistratus maintained, that the great vein was the reservoir of the blood; and the great artery that of the spirits, (k) He added, that after these reservoirs had divided themselves into many branches, they became smaller, and tJieir number greater; and that, as tliere is no place in all the body, where any of these branches terminate, that has not a smaller branch, which receives what was brought to it by the larger ; so it happens, that before these vessels arrive at the surface of the body, they divide themselves into branches, so small and minute, that the blood they contain cannot pass through them ; so that, adds our author, though the mouths of the arteries, and veins, be very near each other, yet the blood keeps itself within its proper bounds, without entering the vessels in which the spirits flow ; and in this case, the animal re- mains in its natural snate. But, when any violent cause happens, to disturb this (economy, the blood forces itself into the arteries, and proves the source of disorders. Among the causes now mentioned, too great a quantity of blood is the princi- pal ; for, in that case, the coats of veins are dilated more than ordinarily, and their extremities, which were formerly shut up, are ojrened ; whence follows a transfusion of blood, from the veins into the arteries ; and this blood, by its irruption, opposing the course and motion of the spirits, which come from the heart. If this opposition be direct, and immediate, or if the blood stops in a principal part, this causes a fever; but if the spirit should happen to drive it backwards, so that it does not pass tlie extremity of the artery, in that case, an inflammation of the part is only produced. As to the inflammation and fever, which happen in wounds, they are also occasioned by the sudden evacuation of spirits, which is the consequence of cutting the artery, and forces the blood continually into the place of the spirits, least there should be a vacuum. Erasistratus used this comparison to support his system. As the sea, says he, which remains in a calm, when she is not ruffled by winds, swells in an extraordinary manner, and overflows its shores, when the wind blows hard; so the blood moving in the body, departs from its ordinary canals, and enters into the reservoirs of the spirits, where it afterwards becomes warm, and puts all the body, as it were, on a fire. With regard to respiration, he maintained, that it was only useful to animals, by filling their arteries with air; which is the consequence of his former hypothesis ; and he imagined it was performed in this manner. When the thorax, or breast, dilates itself, the lungs are also dilated, and filled with air. (i) This air passes to the very extremities of the asperia arteria; and from them, to those of the smooth arteries of the lungs, from which the heart draws it, when it dilates itself, to carry it af- terwards through all the parts of the body, by means of the great artery. When it was objected to him, that the heart moved, in its ordinary manner, when a person retains his breath, he answered, that, upon that occasion, the heart drew air from the great artery. To this it was replied, that the membranes which adhere to the orifice of this artery, will not so much as allow, it to return from it to the heart. But he thought to extricate himself, by saying, that though this was the case in a natural state, yet it did not follow, that it must be so during the time a person retains his breath, which is a state of violence, and con- sequently cannot last very long. Erasistratus also entertained a very singular opinion, with regard to the manner in which thp aliments are prepared in the stomach. He thought, that the stomach contracts itself, that it may more closely embrace the food, and break its texture; that trituration corresponding, according to him, to the concoction of which Hippocrates speaks. And with regard to the chyle, that is the juice of the aliments, extracted in the stomach, he maintained, that passing from the stomach to the liver, it arrived at a certain place, (k) where the branches of the vena cava, and the extremities of the vessels, which are connected with the reservoirs of the bile, equally terminate ; so that the parts of the bile insinuate themselves into the orifices of these two kinds of vessels, according as these orifices are disposed to receive them; that is, every thing of a bilious quality in the ' chyle, (f) Galen, an sanguis sit natnra in arteries. (g) Ibid. & Platon. Deut. lib: 1. cap. VI. & de venesut. adv. Erasistiat. cap. HE (h) De venesect, advers. Erasistrac. (ij Galen.de usie re.spirat. cap. 1. {k) Galen, de facult. natur. lib, 11, cap. IX,