Ixiii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. / ON THE SURGERY OF HIPPOCRATES. THE anatomy of Hippocrates has been already treated of; this was confined and imperfect. His surgery now claims our attention; and as an excellence in this art depends on anatomical accuracy, on a thorough acquaintance of the exact situation of the large vessels, nerves, tendons, and of all the parts subject to operation, it is not surprising that the ancient surgery was defective in many respects. Surgery, at this time, however, not being a distinct art, was, probably, practised by most physicians ; yet, if we believe the oath to be genuine, which Hippocrates administered to his sholars, lithotomy is an operation prohibited; for they swear to consign the performance to those who made it their sole business. In the treatment of dislocations, fractures, tumors, and several other branches of surgery, he has been very particular, and has left us many pertinent and sensible observations. We shall, therefore, arrange these in their due order, and endeavour to give an explicit recital of his modes of practice in this useful branch of medicine. ' OF ABSCESSES, WOUNDS, &c. WHEN medicines will not cure a disease, incission must take place, if incission should fail, we must have recourse to cauterizing; (fj but if that will not succeed, we may judge the case incurable. If a tumor appear on the neck of a patient afflicted with the quinsy, it is very favourable; CgJ foe it demonstrates, that the disorder is thrown off outwardly. Soft tumors are good, but indurated swellings are very bad. When an abscess suppurated, it was opened either by incission, or the actual cautery, (i) Persons, in whom abscesses are suppurated, on being burnt or cut, if pure matter of a white colour issues, this appearance is good, and they recover, (k) But if bloody, very foetid, or filthy matter is discharged, they commonly die. In an abscess of the liver, (1) those who are cauterized for this disorder, are in a safe situation, if pure white matter be discharged ; (vi) because the suppurated matter is then included in a tyuip^ but if the matter be discoloured, resembling the dregs of oil^ then is the disorder fatal. ULCERS. HIPPOCRATES observes, that ulcers in dropsical persons are very difficult of cure; (n) and if ulcers continue a year, or longer, ('oj they will of necessity affect the bone, and cause deep hollow scars. Ulcers every where, smooth, and foul, are of a malignant nature, (p) And an eruption of blood proceeding from a stiong pulsation in ulcers is baxl. (qj The application to inveterate ulcers, was something similar, to the unguentum, Aigyptiacum; and internally, purges were prescribed, (r) An ulcer suddenly vanishing, produces a raging madness; a sharp pain under the ribs, distension of the nevers, (s) and sometimes convulsions ; those, in whom ulcers, or tumours appear, are neither driven into rage, nor mad- ness. Hence arose the opinion, that it is dangerous to cure, or dry up old ulcers. (t) Cold is hurtful to ulcers, obdurates the skin, and causes blackness, feverish rigours, convulsions, and distensions of the nerves. (a) But sometimes, in a distension, or rigour of the nerves, without an ulcer, to young and fleshy bodies, in tho middle of summer, a pouring on of cold water, recalls the heat; (x) which heat dissolves the distemper. Heat, causing suppuration, does not afford us the greatest sign of security, in every ulcer, (y) It softens, and extenuates the skin: it eases pain, mitigates rigour, convulsions, and distensions of the nerves, takes away heaviness of the head, is very profitable to broken bones, especially if they be bare, but much more to those who have ulcers in their heads. It is good for such (J) Aph, 6. Sect. VIII. Art. XIII. 12. ad. 18. (g) Apli. 37. Sect. VI. Critical tumor favourable. (/i) 11 Epid. III. 128. Aph. 67. Sect. V. Hard tumors bad. (i_) Prognostic from the colour of the matter. (k) Pr®not VII. 6. XIX. 4. 11 Morb. XI. 5,34, 35. Coac. III. 217, 269. Aph. 44. Sect. VII. (l) Abscess of the liver. (m) Aph. 45. Sect. VII. (ti) A true observation. (o) De fract. XXX. 2. Ulcer. V. 4. Aph. 45. Sect. VI. (p) 11 Epid. VIII. 2. Aph. 4. Sect. VI. (?) Aph. 21. Sect. VII. (r) 111 consequences of ulcers suddenly healing. (s) 11 Epid III. 129. Aph" 63. Sect. VI. (t) Origin of the notion of the danger of healing ulcers. (u) De fract. XXXVIl. 6. De hrticul.'LXXIV. 10. Aph. 20. Sect. Y. (x) Cold water. 3 Morb. XIV. 17. Aph.21. Sect. T, (y) De ulcer. V. 1, Aph. 22. Sect. V.