( io8 ) THE SUBSTANCE OF BONES IS THREE-FOLD. Compact in the body of a bone ; spongy at the extremities; reticular internally. The compact substance consists of many broad laminae, or layers, lying closely on each other. The spongy substance consists of short bony fibres in various directions, forming cells, rvhich resemble sponge. The reticular substance consists of minute bony filaments, r interwoven togetlier like net-work. COLOUR OF BONES. 1. In the compact substance is white, inclining to red. 2. In the spongy structure is brown, inclining to red. 3. On the external tables of the skull is white, inclining to blue, ‘ USES OF THE BONES. 1. They support the body. 2. form its stature. 3. defend the viscera. 4. give adhesion, and situation to muscles. OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. It is divided into the upper part, and base ; and is composed of eight bones, which are connected by suture. The sutures of the skull are divided into 3 True, and 2 False. THE TRUE SUTURES ARE, First, Coronal, by which the frontal bone is joined to the parietal bones. Second, Sagittal, which joins the parietal bones together. Third, LamhdoiHal, or occipital, which connects the occi- pital to the parietal, and temporal bones. THE FALSE, OR SPURIOUS SUTURES, ARE 3 Squamous, ,or temporal, by which the upper part of the temporal bone is connected to the lower margin of the parietal bone, on each side. SUBSTANCE OF THE SKULL. The skull consists of an internal, and external table, which are compact; and aspongy intermediatesubstance, called Uiploe. I'he internal table, from its smooth brittle surface, is likewise distinguished by the name of Vitreous, or Glassy. Those small bones, named after Wormius, are chiefly found * in the lamdoidal suture. .THERE ARE EIGHT CAVITIES IN THE BASE, OR BOT- TOM OF THE SKULL, ON WHICH THE CEREBRUM AND CEREBELLUM ARE SITUATED. 2 Anterior, formed by the frontal, and ethmoid bones. 2 Middle, formed by the spheenoid, and temporal bones. 2 Superior occipital, formed by the occipital bone. 2 Inferior occipital formed by the occipital and temporal bones. THE FORAMINA, OR PERFORATIONS IN THE BASE | OF THE SKULL, ARE Ten, in pairs. Two, unlike each other. I THE PAIRS ARE THUS DISTINGUISHED. 1. Cribrous foramen in the occipital bone. 2. Optic foramen in the sphomoid. 3. Superior orbital fissure. | 4. Round foramen. | 5. Oval foramen. | 6. Spinous foramen. , i 7. Canal, or passage for the carotid artery in the petrous | portion of the temporal bone. 8. Internal auditory foramen, near the latter. 9. Lacerated foramen, between the temporal, and occi- pital bones. 10. Anterior, condyloid foramen, in the occipital bone. J i THOSE FORAMINA, AVHICH ARE UNLIKE. 1. Obscure foramen, between the frontal, and ctlunoid bones. 2. Great occipital foramen in the occipital bone. USES OF THE FORAMINA IN PAIRS. 1. Receive the olfactory nerves, which are distributed on I the cavity of the nose. | 2. Give passage to the optic nerves, through each of j which nerve there is a central artery. ; 3. By the superior orbital fissure, the third, fourth, < first branch of the fifth, and the whole of the sixth t pair of nerves pass; likewise, the internal orbital artery. 4. The round foramina give passage to the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves. 5. The oval foramina receive the third branch of the t fifth pair. | 6. By the spinous foramen, the spinous artery runs into | dura mater. 7. By the carotid canals the internal carotid artery enters, ' and the great intercostal nerve passes out. 8. By the auditory foramen, the hard and soft portion of the auditory nerve, and the internal auditory ajtery pass. t). Through