history of WeSiOinS. He knew a little concerning IieaHtig, and had seen tho tympanum ; from his obSe'rviCtioirof^ its b^ing'tlie dri^st^iriem- brane in'the body. The philosophers who were cotemporary with him, likewise applied themselves to discover’ how hetfring was performe'd, aS hath already been mentioned. As for the brain and nerves, he was entirely unacquainted with their uses, ("k) Vision, likewise^ he does not sOe’m to'hav^ speculated on. In the book De Glandulis, he calls the brain a gland ; and in his book, De Morbo Sacro, he makes the brain the seat of wisdom. These are some of his contradictions, and it has been a matter of dispute, whether the book De Glandulis be genuine. Galen thought it spurious. The uses of the glands, he'seems to have understood, though imperfectly, The secretion of the saliva^ he mentions, and comprehended its use. The thoughts on generation, conception, the union of the semen of the sexes, f/rj its conveyance through the spine, or means of the jugulars to the genital parts ; and his notions on twins, have no foundation in truth. These subjects were too intricate for the discussion of those early and infant ages of philosophy ; indeed no e.xtraordinary success has attended later enquirers, as will fully appear in the prosecution of this work. The opinions concerning the production of moles'or false coneeptions, are nearly true, (I) and agrees with the present general opinions on that subject. (Tn the nourishment of the foetus, he had formed a tolerable judgment; (m) except, where he imagines, that the foetus respires in the uterus, (n) for we know this to be impossible. From the whole then, it appears, that Hippocrates was defi*ctivein anatomical knowledge, (o) And can this be"wondered af, when it was contrary to the custom of the Greeks to touch, muchless to open and inspect, dead bodies ? This alone suf- ficiently accounts for the deficiency in this branch of the art. But is it not extraordinary that he even understood what he’ did ? Docs it not argue the most indefatigable industry, the most extraordinary powers of mind, the most consummate wisdom, for one man to acquire such a comprehensive kn'oAvledge in every branch of medicine.’ It certainly does. He must be con-** fidcred byevery unprejudiced judge', as a prodigy, one whose superior talents and exalted genius, led him to soar above all others; t^f'cfiily inuni^er5a^'bfela'evo^e^rC'e and generosity of soul, but in all the learned accomplishtnents of the age‘hc lived'in; ON! fSE Medical practice of hipfocrates. IN acute’diseases, he observes thiaf c'otA'ness’ifi- the extremities is a bad sign; Cp) and that we mnst purge, if theie'be a' tendency in* nature, to expel the hh/nbr' by'eiccretion; upon the first appearance of the disease, (qj In general, his' practice is, to allow the patient only a thin' watery diet, and to wait patiently, and watch diligently, for whatever course nature takes to expel the disease, iii which* salutary purpose'he assists. 1 he remedies in general are, emulsions, hydromels, and thin fannaceous ptisans. Oxymel, he likewise recommends, as it promotes expectoration, and renders respiration easy. ,The (g) He had some little knowledge of licaring« (i) Glands he imperfectly understood. (1) His notionof themola tolerably true. (71) But falsely imagined that the foetus respired in the uterus! (0) How extraordinary his kiio'wledge, when the disidTaiitages he laboured under be considered. (p) Cpid. XXV. 7. Aph. 10. sect. iv. Prsenot. 15. ix. (h) Ignorant of the use of the brain and nerves, (k) His notions of generation, conception, &c. not true. (m) On the nourishment of the foetus, his notioltsjust, in some degt«f.