XXVI HISTORY OF MEDICINE BREASTS AND GLANDS. THE breasts receive the excrementitious moisture: for if any disease, or other event, take away a woman’s breasts, ("uj ler voice becomes shriller, and she is much troubled with a paitrin her head. The uses of the glands and the breasts are alike, for they absorb the superfluities of the whole body. Cx) The nature of womens breasts, is fleshy, and spongy, and the aliment they receive, they turn into milk. The milk comes from the uterus to the breasts, which after the birth, must be for the nourishment of the infant. This the epiploon presses out, and send^ upwards, being strengthened by the growth of the foetus. After a woman has born a child, if she also has given suck before, the milk svill arise into the breasts, as soon as the ia- fant begins to move. When the infant moves, it gives warning to the mother. The foetus, in the third or fourth month, becoming gieat, strains or presses the vessels full of blood, and by this compression, there is made an expression to the upper parts. The almonds, says Hippocrates, are for the purpose of receiving the moisture of the brain, fzj This moisture it con- verts into saliva, whereby all the parts within the mouth, even the oesophagus, and the aspera arteria, and tongue, are all kept from drying, and rendered more glib and nimble. ON CONCEPTION, &c. IN women, who are weak or delicate, the menses sometimes continue flowing for the space of seven days, faj The dis- charge of the menses is, more or less, according to the variety, colour, temperament, age, habit, and time of the year. The women who arc fair, or white, have such abundance of humour, that it issues various ways; contrary to those who have brown and swarthy skins, ('ij being commonly drier. In moderate, and middling temperate women, the quantity of the discharge is equal to heraine, (i. e. eighteen ounces). To perfect generation, there is required a concurrence fej and mixture of the male and female semen. The semen is of a fiery,and airy nature. By the airy part, it distends the whole frame of nature; and by the riery, it is stimulated to action. ’I'hc ligaments of the womb do hold it like a bridle. In the right sinus, or bosom of the womb, the male children arc conceived ; fejandin the left, the female. When the semen is received into the uterus, it is there closely shut up. (fJ H will scarce admit a needle or small probe. The wombs of women are the cause of all their diseases, (gj There is a double kind of semen in both sexes, the one strong and hot, the other weaker and colder. The first is called semen masculum, or male seed; the other semen femininum, or female seed ; and out of these, as they overcome one another, he thinks, that a male, or female, is generated. The seeds injected, and drawn into the uterus, are exquisitely mixed, immediately; or otherwise, fij they arc neither nourished, or animated. And if any man deny that tlie souls are united in conception, let him be considered ignorant, The woman who is pregnant of a male child, is well coloured ; (IJ she that is pregnant with a female is swarthy, or pale coloured. Male children are situated on the right side, females on the left, (mj If a woman has conceived of a male, the right breast will swell ; if of a female, the left. The geniture in seven days hath whatsoever (n) it ought to have. For common and prostituted women, when they find they have conceived, they undo it within their own bodies, by wicked means, and so there fallcth from them as it were a flesh: which flesh, if it be cast into cold water, and diligently observed, you shall in it perceive all the members, the place of the eyes, ears, hands, fingers, thighs, feet, toes, and the secret pacts. When the infant begins to move, the milk acquaints the mother with it. (o) for presently, upon the motion of the infant, the breasts swell, and the nipples are distended. If the right breast should fall, or lessen in size, it indicates the abortion of a male child; (u) De glandulis. (x) De natura pueri. {ij) De natura pueri. (a) De diaeta. (6) Lib. de toulicr. (c) De natur. pueri. («) Male cbildretj conceived of the right side of the womb, females of the left. (g) De loc. homin. (/i) Two sorts of semen in both sexes (i) Union of souls (1) Aph. 48, sect. T. (m) Aph. 38, sect. v. (») De priucipiis. (z) De glandul. (d) Mixture of the male and female semen. (f) Closeness of the uterus, Aph. 5i, sect. t. (/c) De natur. pueri. (o) De natur, pueri>