( 36 ) c. V^ena cava inferior ; s. asccndcns, which expand to consti- tute the right sinus. a. Vena azygos. /?. Sac of the vena cava,—Lower’s saccus dexter, not w^dl expressed by the engraver. y. The right auricle. The arch of the aorta, drawn on the left side by an hook <r, and partly compressed. 6. Arteria innominata, or common trunk of the right sub- clavian artery and trunk of the carotids. The right subclavian artery. r. The right common trunk of the external and internal carotid arteries. 5. The common left trunk of the carotids. X. The left subclavian artery, ■Pc The origin and progress of the pulmonary artery. »». The right branch of the pulmonary artery. f. The left branch of the pulmonary artery, conspicuous in part, but rather obscurely. 0. An hook, confining the arch of the aorta to the left side. (p Os hyoidcs. ^ its cornu ; -vj/ its basis. 1. The first, or superior great cervical ganglion, which re- ceives ^ 2. A small branch from the anterior ramus of the first pair of cervical nerves, (No. 151.) 3. Another small branch arising from a ramus of the first pair, communicating with the second pair of cervicals, (No. 151. 152) inserted into the superior cervical ganglion. 4. A small branch from the interior ramus of the second pair (No., 152) of cervical ncrvc.s, ascending to the ganglion, (No. 1.) Sr Another branch, running in a transverse course, from the anterior branch of the second pair of the first cervical gan- glion. 6. Ramulus mollis, descending from the superior cervical ganglion, whence arise 7. 8, Two small branches, accompanying the carotid artery. 9. The third small branch, passing a little beyond the ante- rior surface of the external carotid, afterwards connected by its .ascending and descending surculi, with small branches from the nerve of the pharynx and larynx. 10. A branch, called the cardiacus supremus, or superfici- alis, descending from the superior cervical ganglion in a direct line with the cervical trunk of the intercostal nerve (No. 29) on its inner side. 11. 12. Its division into two branches, viz. exterior (No. 11) and interior, (No. 12) which seperate, leaving a space like an island, then again unite. •13. 13. A branch formed by the-coinbination of eleven and twelve branches, and descending, receive 14. A branch from the intercostal cervical trunk. 15. 15. A branch arising from No. 12, which, with No. 13, form a larger island. From this first ramus arises 16. A branch, joining" with the laryngeal branch, No. ^57, goes to the larynx, and partly to the musculus sterno- thvroideus, and partly under it to the thyroid gland, (Vide 20'S. 269.) 17. Another ramification from No. 15, going otf to the thyroid gland. IS. The branch, called cardiacus supremus, again uniting from branch 15 and 13, which, after descending lower, forms 19. A small branch, forming an anastomosis with the de- scending ramulus. No. 35, of the inferior cervical ganglion. 20. Another branch of the superior cardiac nerve, with the same ramulus of the inferior cervical ganglion, (No. 35) forming two anastomoses. 21. 21. Nervous cardiacus supremus, descending, and at length dividing into two rainuli ; of which, 22. The first forms an anastomosis with the principal car- diac nerve, (No. 60'. O’O’) arising from the lii-st thoracic gan- glion. 23. The second ramulus of No. 21, which, in its descccnt, divides into 3 Ramuli. 24, 25. 20. of which 24. The posterior again unites with that cardiac nerve, (06) passing from the thoracic ganglion. 25. Another small branch of (No. 23) which receives a branch (No. 05) passing down from the first thoracic ganglion, and afterwards dcscentls on the internal side of the arteria in- nominata to its e.xtcriial surface, and even to the aorta. 26. The middle small branch of the same nerve, (No. 23) which again divides into the 27. The internal, or anterior ramulus, which, incurvating in internal side of the arteria innominata, runs to the anterior surface of the same artery, and to the aorta. 28. 28. The external, or posterior ramulus of (No. 26) running down the posterior surface of the arteria innominata : but it must be observed, that the branches 21. 22. 24. 25. 26. 27. arc very much removed from their natural situation fur the arch of the aorta with the carotid and right subclavian arteries, and being drawn on the left side, elongates these small branches. 29. 29. The intercostal, cervical trunk descending from the superior cervical ganglion, drawn a little forward to elucidate more clearly Ganglia, No. 53 and 55. 30. A branch of the intercostal cervical trunk with the in- ferior thyroid artery running down to the thyroid gland, some- times it there anastomoses with the branch of the recurrent nerve of the eighth pair. 31. 32. Two branches, into which the intercostal trunk in this subject was divided : one of them (No. 31) a little thinner, runs down above the inferior thyroid artery ; the other, No. 32, and thicker, is continued clown behind it, forming an island, by which the artery is contined, they both again unite, 33. The inferior cervical ganglion. 34. Its first, or external branch, which descending a little, divides into No. 35 and 36. 35. 35. 35. A small branch from 34, joined to the first with a branch. No, 19, then by two circuli with a branch, No. 20, of the nervus, cardiacus, supremus; but, after de- scending a little, it is inserted into a branch, No, 37 ; so that inconjuncti-'n with this, and a branch-of the recurrent, No.