( 3 ) PLATE I. On the Names of the external Parts arid Divisions of the Human Body. A. The human body is divided into the head, trunk, and ex- tremities. The face and the parts covered with hair is called the head. Tlie parts of which are: . 1, Sinciput, or anterior and superior part. 2. Occiput, or posterior part. 3. ' Tempora. The temples, or sides. 4, Vertex, or crown of the head, b The face, 5, Frons, or forehead, under the sinciput?. 6', Nares, tlie nostrils from which mucus, - . ( ... ■' " 7- Oc7tli, thb eye? under the eye-lids. [ ; P<ilpcbr<e, or the eye-lids. j[ r Cilia, or eyc-lashcs, the outer edge of the eye-lids, on which hairs grow. Centals major, the great angle of the eye towards the nose. Canthus minor, the smaller angle of the eye towards the temples, ||K‘ 8. Mala:, the checks, which when inflated are called Q. 0«, the mouth ; it divides the lips, and is that empty space which extends from the lips to the fauces inter- nally. 10. Jitres, the ears; the lobe is the extremity, j 11. Mentum, the chin, in the middle of which the dimple, c Collum, or neck, is immediately below the head. 12. Jvgulum, or throat, is the anterior part. 13. Cervix, is the posterior part. B. Thorax, between the neck and abdomen; in which the the heart, lungs,- &c. are seated. , e Sternum, or pectus. 0 Mamma:, or breasts, carneous eminences on the anterior part of the thorax. ’ Papilla, or nipple in the extreme part. ( Scrobiculm cordis. 0 Scapulce, or broad bones lying behind, called shoulder blades. ' C. Abdomen, or the inferior belly, is situated between the thorax and pubis-in it are contained the liver, spleen, stomach, intestines, pancreas, kidneys, bladder, &c. g The space above the navel is called epigastrium. I The extremities of the short ribs are terminated by cartilages» Hypochondria are immediately under tlie short ribs. h Umbilieus, or the navel, is the place where formerly the umbilical vessels passed to nourish the foetus in the gravid uterus. The middle part of the navel is called acromphalon, the surrounding skin vetula, when shrivelled, signifying old age. i Hypogastrium is below the navel. ' k The part lower down to the pudenda is called pubes, or ephebffion. ■ 1 The bones of the back-bone are called vertebra:, and the whole assemblage of them is the spine; (m) the lower part is called liimbi, or loins; (n) the last bone is the os sacrum, called hyposphondelon, which is terminated by the coccyx. 0 On the sides and below the loins posteriorly arc the nates, or posteriors. q Ilia are the cavities between the costte, or ribs, and the femur, or thigh. r Inguina, the groins, are next the upper part of the thighs. D. . . The arms, or superior extremities, extend from the shoulders, s Humerus is the uppermost part of the brachium, or arm., t Axilla, or arm-pit, is the cavity under the articulation of the humerus. .. ^ .. , • u reaches from the elbow to the wrist. . '• i V. Gibber, or olecranons, is the posterior protuberant, sharp end of the cubit, called elbow'. . w Carpus, the wrist, from the lower end of the cubit to the metacarpus. X The flat, broad part of the hand is called pah/ia in Latin, and metacarpium in Greek. J Dorsum manus, the back of the hand. - § Vula manus, the inside or palm. Digiti, the fingers; 1. Pollex, the thumb; 2, Index, the fore finger; 3, Medius, the middle finger; 4, Annularis, the ring finger; 5. Auricularis, or little finger. , ^ \ ' Pedes, ihoi feet, are the lower extremities. y Femur, the tliigh. z Genu, tlie knee, is the connection of the thigh with the leg, ' a Poples, the ham, behind and under the knee. 6 Tibia, the shin-bone, is the anterior part of the leg. c Sura, the calf of the leg, is the posterior fleshy part of thd d Calx, the heel, is the posterior round part of the foot. ' i e Below that is the hollow of the toot. f Then comes planta, or the sole of the foot. g Opposite, on the upper part, is the tarsus,] ^ h Metatarsus, 1 Digiti, the toes of the foot.