xlvi HISTORY OF MEDICINE • ON EPIDEiNIIC DISEASES. e IN his first book of his Ejiicleraics, is observed, they frequently discharged stools, which were bilious, (It) small in quantity, j sincere and acrid; and afterwards, he informs us, (\) that in tlie summer and autumn, lienteries, dysenteries, tenesmi, and fluxes raged ; and that the stools discharged, were bilious, thin, acrimonious, frequent, crude; and in some patients aqueous. In the same book, is remarked, that all those patients had disturbances in their abdomen, and stoolsof the worst kind. A little after, he says, that the diseases with which they were afflicted were dj’senteries, tenesmi, lienteries, and fluxes. Of this we have an instance in the daughter of Eryanax, with respect to whom Hippocrates in his third Book of his Epidemics, says, that in the twelfth day, bilious excrements were discharged, small in quantity; sincere, thin, acrid, and frequent. In i the third Book of the Epidemics, those who laboured under acute or chronical diseases, were taken oft', principally, by stools | of a bad kind. | In the Books of Epidemics, are many histories, and very accurate observations on the excrements; (h) from which he drew favourable, or unfavourable, prognostics. (1) He has given us fort^’-two cases, out ol which number, twenty-five died ; I of those which escaped, no one recovered his health without some intervening evacuation. The evacuations, mentioned by J Hippocrates are seven, and are as follows: ^ By an eruption of blood, (tn) By sweat, (it) By vomiting, (o) | By an abscess, (p) By spitting, (q) By urine, (r) By a looseness, (s) j In his treatment of fevers, he very rarely mentions remedies; he chiefly depended on nature for solving the disease. \ Though in some cases he prescribes a clyster, a suppository, washing of the head; applied fomentations, and sometimes opened a vein. It should be remembered, he knew nothing of antimony, bark, or mineral acids. In his first Epid. stat. 3, he tells us, that in the case of a burning fever, those who had a good and plentiful discharge of blood by the nose, generally recovered by that means. Nor do I know any, says he, who in this epidemical constitution, died ^ after ajust hemorrhage. But Philiscus, Epaminon and Silenus, from whose noses fell a small quantity of blood by drops, on the fourth and fifth day, all died. i Afterwards, he says, some there are, on whom the jaundice appeared on the sixth day; but they were relieved by some j evacuation cither by urine, or stool, or a copious hemorrhage from the nose. Thus it happened to Heraclides, who lay sick 'j at the house of Aristocydes, and had a plentiful discharge of blood from the nostrils, and evacuations by stool and urine. b* I JAUNDICE. j IIIPPOCR.kTES, in ,his Treatise De Rationc Victu in Acutis, classes those who labour under the jaundice, as improper sub- ' jeets for drastic purging, (u) For, says he, the physician who treats them with purgatives, will expose them to danger, without <Ioing any manner of service. In the fifth section of his Bookde Affect, when he gives the cure of a jaundice, he makes mention of purgatives in the following words. The external part of the body is to be softened by warm baths ; but the intestines and bladder are to be lubricated ; for this disorder happens, when the bile, thrown into a preternatural concoction, is lodged and deposited immediately under the skin. If the most ignorant physician is but acquainted with this circumstance, he will not readily prove unsuccessful in the cure of the disease ; for by the slightest and most inconsiderable circumstances, diseases are, long protracted, and rendered .far more violent than they would have otherwise been. All aliments, potions, sorbitions, orllj medicines, calculated for alleviation of pain, may be safely used in this disorder, provided they are given with due caution and judgment. But such medicines as purge bile, or phlegm, are dangerous, and the physician prescribing them, may be justly chargeable with ignorance and bad management. In (ti) Stools bilious. fU') .Many observalions on the feces in his Epidemics. (m) Lib. 1. obs. 7. book 3. Sect. II. c. 7, 11, la. (o) B. 1. c. 13. ( r) B. 1. c. 6. B. 3. c. 1, 5. Sect. II.- (() lie rarely prescribes inedkuics In acute distempets. (i) Autumn and summer, disorders of the intestines raged. {ly Twenty-five out of forty-luo, died iii tlie e|)idcmics. (n) As book I. c. 3, C, 7, 13, 14. book 3. c. 3. Sect. II. c. 6, 7, 8, 10. 12. fpjB. 3. c. 1 B. 3. c. 1 Sect II. c. 8» (s) B. 1. c. 10. B. 3. c. 3. Sect II. c. 9. (u) Purgatives improper.