( 4 ) PLATE II. Of the. constituent Farts of the Body, The human body consists of solids and Jluids. The solids are: I. A fibre is the most simple part of the body, destined for the construction of all the otlier parts. Fibres are divided in longitudinal A, transverse B, oblique C, orbicular D, arched E, angular F, spiral G. From many simple fibres longitudinally and closely ap- plied to each other arises a simple lamina. II. Tela cellulosa, or cellular texture; by the union of many simple laminae is produced the tela cellulosa, which gives origin to almost all parts of the body. a Is the te-xture seen by the microscope. 6 The texture with large cells, to receive the adeps, or fat. III. Membrane, is a white, flexile, thin, and expanded part* a Closer cellular texture, like II. produces membrane III* IV. Tunica, or coats, are membranes so turned and formed as to make various cavities ; but more properly those that constitute tubes or vessels. Vessels are long, conic, membranous ducts, through which the fluids of the body are conveyed, and are named as follows: y ^ 1 Is a conie, pulsating vessel, carrying the blood y ” I from the heart to every part of the body; is ^ J compose«i. of five coats. yj .1 Is a vessel without pulsation, returning the y . I blood and other fluids from all parts of the body J towards the heart. VII. 1 Are small pellucid tubes furnished with valves, 1/ympha- I they absorb from most parts of the body the coa-* tic Vessels J gulable lymph, and carry it to the thoracic duct. VTTT 1 small membranes in the heart and veins, y , ’ land shut like flood-gates, that the blood and ® J other fluids may not repass. V. Arterial tunics, (a) the first and outer coat they take from the cavities. h The second coat is next the former, c The third is the mufcu/ar coaf, made of spiral mus- cular fibres, whence the pulse originates. d The fourth coat is made of the cellular texture, e The fifth is the last and internal. The venal coats VI. have the same structure, cxcent the muscular coat. All those tunics are nourished by small arteries, veins, and receive their sensation from nerves. IX. The branches of ar/crifs and ncMij. A the artery. B the vein. C the ligature in both to shew by the distention the course of the blood. D the vein swelling below the ligature^ E the artery detumefying, e, e, e, e, the connections of the small ramifications. VII. Exhibits a lymphatic or conglobate gland injected] with mercury. A the lymphatic vessel. B the lymphatic gland; a heap! of vessels. X. Nerves, are white, hard, elastic, and very sensibl^ parts; they originate in the brain, cerebellum, and medullil spinalis, and arc dispersed over the whole body; by thenn all sensation is produced. X. The nerve; A the outer coat. B the nervous fila^ mfcnts. XI. The muscles, are organical parts, called flesh, andj give motion to the body, they are composed of fibres, cellular] structure, arteries, veins, nerves, lymphatics, &cc. Tendons, are the ends of the muscles, called heads ortails^ their fibres are tougher, stronger, and more compact thaal in the muscles, and of a white silver colour. XI. A double muscle ; A^.B, C, the outer tendon divided.! D, E, the interior tendon. F, G, two orders of fibres,^ making two bellies of the muscle. XII, A. gland, is a fleshy part of the body, hard, round,' or oblong, covered by its proper membrane; composed of: arteries, veins and lymphatic vessels designed for the deter- mined secretion, or mutation of some particular humours. XII, A Gland. A. blood-vessels, B. a nerve. C, cretory duct. The rest represent the glandular body. Ductus excretoriiis is is a canal receiving in certain glands and viscera the secreted liquors, and convoying them off to the proper destined places. XIII. Ossa, bones, are the hardest parts'of the body, composed of strong lamellae, of the cellular texture, blood- vessels, and nerves, and are destined to be a support to all the other parts. XIII. Os, the bone, a, corpus, the body of the bone; b, caput, the head; c, the apophysis. XIV. Cartilages are parts most similar to the bones, white, flexile, and smooth, generally adhering to the extremities of the bones. The anterior part of the ribs is cartilaginous, the same also is the trachea, or wind-pipe. XIV, Ligament is a membranous part destined to join and connect together other parts. XIV. The cross ligaments in the poples or liam seen from the anterior side, (a) Condylus extermis femoris. (b) The internal condyl. (c) The tibia, (d) Fibula, (e) Lignmenta cruciata. a,b. Smooth, white parts; the ends of the bones covered with,a smooth cartilage. Viscera, bowels, are organic parts, v. g. the liver, &c. • Organon, or pars organica is any aniinaled part of the body destined for some particular use. e\^