( 176 ) At At)Out the fourth day after delivery, the breasts, which had begun to be distciuled towards the end of pregnancy, become hard and painful from tlie groat quantity of milk contained, the papilla becomes erect, and a fever Comes on, called the milk fever. The breasts are emptied of the milk by the sucking of the infant, which is very agreeable to the mother ; it re- moves the inconveniences from the breasts being dis- tended, and prevents unpleasant symptoms which would arise from the regurgitation of the milk. After some months, giving suck, becomes unpleasant to the mother; and the cljild, desiring firmer food, begins to reject it, which is the time for weaning. THE AGES OF MAN. A man’s life seldom continues above seventy years; which usual stage of life is divided into seven ages, of which each has its metamorphos: FIRST, THE AGE OF EMBRYO, Whilst it lives in the uterus for a space of nine months: the embryo, at first, is like a mucous, in which are observed a white line, called Malpighi’s ridge, and which seems to be the, system of the brain; also, a red point called punctum salicns, which is the heart of the embryo.—This small being, in the space 'of nine months, increases to the weight of eight pounds. « SECOND age is INFANCY, Extending from the first to the seventh year; the first phsenomena observed are the following, soOn after a child is born: 1. It breathes, and cries on account of the air irritating the lungs. 2. Whilst crying it discharges the meconium and urine. 3. On being put to the mother’s breast, it compresses the nipple between its lips, and sucks the milk. 4. It sleeps very much. 5. It opens its eyes, but does not sec, on account of the pupillary membrane not being removed. 6. Neither does it hear, from the narrowness of the meatus auditoriuk ; nor smell, because the pituitary sinuses are not yet formed. THE CHANGES WHICH HAPPEN IN THE CHILD’s BODY AFTER BIRTH ARE J. The umbilical chord tied near the navel, which, after a few days, becomes dry, and falls off at the navel, leaving a cicatrix. 2. 'Tlie lungs, which, in the foetus, were of a dark-brown co- lour, solid, and sinking in water, become light, spongy, large, whitish, swimjning in water, and lull of air, which shews that (he infant has brcatlted. 3. The canalis arteriosus and foramen ovale, gradually con- ' Crete ; the blood then passes upwards more easily into the dilated and soft pulmonaiy arteries. 4. In like manner also the umbilical vein and arteries, and urachus of the bladder, gradually concrete, and are not distended by any humour ])assing through them. 5. The liver, which, in the foetus, is swelled, gradually be- comes smaller, and situated under the ribs; the sto- mach increases in length, the great intestines are di- lated, and the intestine, called emeum, is formed by the weight of fasces. 6. The bones are mostly cartilaginous; the apophyses are hardly formed; all the epiphyses and apophyses of bones are enlarged more and more by the action of the muscles. 7. The heart more irritable, larger, and stronger than the vessels ; whence, the pulse is quicker in infants, and the vessels found in greater quantity at every part. 8. The brain and nerves are larger; whence, the sensibility and irritability of infants is more considerable than of adults. 9. The sutures and fontanella of the cranium gradually concrete. 10. All the glands are larger, and abound more in gelatinous humours. 11. The skin is fine, smooth, and thin ; also, much fat is ob- servable. 12. At the sixth month, the first teeth come, Vhich, until now, were in the alveoli of the jaws; at the third year, the first dentition is completed. 13. In the second year, the muscles becoming stronger, the infant begins to go alone; at the beginning of the third year can talk, and gradually becomes in- formed. 14. When the first dentition is complete, the infant refuses the breast, chews soft food, becomes diverting, and full of ingenuity, considering its age, THIRD AGE IS CHILDHOOD, Which continues from the seventh to the fourteenth year; at the seventh, the first teeth fall out, and the second set gradually corae forward ; there is frequent desire of food, and fondness of trifles, action, and loquacity; the humours are carried to the head in considerable quantity. FOURTH AGE IS YOUTH, Which continues from the fourteenth to the twenty-first year: after the fourteenth year, the breasts oj girls begin to swell, the vulva to enlarge, and the menses to appear.