HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixxxix J>Utn,sisia,domiabo,damnaustra, 8f luxato. Vel kao modo, haul, hast, haul, ista, sis tar sis ardatmalon diamaustra. Catode re rustic. Cap. l60. Pliny also informs us, that Cato, in his practice, made a great deal of use of cabbage, in which, he observes, the whole materia mcdica of the Romans chiefly consisted, for six hundred years. Cicero informs us, that poetry was not introduced among the Romans till very late; (p) and, that even philosophy, had been in threat disrepute till his days. Suetonius also affirms, that grammar was not at all in use among the first Romans, much less was it esteemed and valued (q) because the people of those days were as yet savage and unpolitc, and so ; thoroughly addicted to the business of war, that none applied themselves very much to the liberal arts. Tlrrj next considerable physician to be mentioned is Asclepiades, who flourished at Rome, and was cotemporary with. Mithridates, king of Pontus. The ancient writers, in whom the mention of him is to be found, so far as is come to our j knowledge, are, in number, twenty-seven, eleven of whom were Greeks, and sixteen Latins. Of the eleven Greek writers, there are five physicians, Cassius, Erotianus, Galen, Oribasius,/Etius; three philosophers, Plutarch, Sextus, and^Stobaus; two geographers, Strabo and Stephanus; and one divine, Eusebius. Of the sixteen Latin, there were five physicians, Census, I Seribonius, Celius Aurelianus, Marcellus, Theodorus; three philosophers, Cicero, Seneca, Chalcidius; si.x miscellaneous, ' Pliny, Apuleius, Censorious, Macrobius, Martian, and Cassiodorus; two divines, the supposed Clement, and Tertullian. In some of the testimonials of the above-mentioned writers, there are moreover to be found quotations concerning him from 1 ten other writers, nine Greek, and one Latin, whose works, at least thpse that speak of him, are lost. Five of them were j physicians, AthenjEus Attalensis, founder of the order of the spiritualist, or the pneumatic sect, who would all diseases arise, from a spirit suffering, but what this spirit is, or meant, no one hath yet discovered. Menodotus Empiricus, Aulrodorus,^ Moscliion, and Soranus ; two were philosophers, Antiochus, preceptor to Cicero, and Athenodorus, to Augustus ; two his- I torians, Varro, and Herennius Philo; and one divine, Dionisius, bishop of Alexandria. Of the aforesaid twenty-seven writers, actually now extant, there are only four, who have written any thing at large con- cerning him. Celsus, who was a great admirer of Asclepiades; he often quotes him with- approbation; and, if sometimes he may not j agree with him in opinion, he gives the reason of his dissent with the most decent respect. I The next author who writes much of Asclepiades,is Pliny, who for his entertainment compiled a great book of natural his- tory, containing a prodigious medly of natural, moral, and historical particulars, extiacted, according to his own account, from above two thousand books, the originals of which are almost all lost; a circumstance that renders him the more valua- i ble to us. But many allegations of Pliny, or as they appear in his book, being examined by men of letters and judgment,, arc not to be found very exact, so that he isnot to be quoted or resorted to without great caution. It is particularly observable in him, that he meddled much with physic, which he had never practised, or could have any grounds in it, since he himself declares that the medical art was the one of the Greeks arts that had not yet been exercised by the Roman gravity, (r) lie then pretends to discover the mysteries of it, by producing some recipes froiii the Greek I books; and by this means aims at rendering the professors of that nation useless;. against whom he seizes every occasion, to I manifest a very illiberal envy, and a desire of lessening, as much as possible,, their authority. This is what he has particularly attempted, as to Asclepiades, who was dead many years before ; unless, indeed, it may be believed, that what be says, being ' rarely original, (sj he may have copied some writer cotemporary to that great man ; and what is not uncommon, an envious and malignant detractor from his merit. VVe are, however, obliged to Pliny for many particulars, which, without him, might probably have remained unknown. The third author who makes mention of Asclepiades, and that for the most part with disapprobation, is Caslius Aurelianus, ef the town of Sicca, in Africa, of whom we have a treatise of physic, in a rough and barbarous Latin; in which he professes hiipself little more than a translator of Soranus, who flourished in the beginning of the second century. Fie is, however, estimable for his quotation of authors, whose works are lost; as to what appears of his own stock, it is not of much value. To judge by his stiie, he would appear to be of the flfth century, but by certain sentences and quotations,, most people are in- aa dined (p) Tasculunar. quaest. lib. 1. (|) De illust. Graramaticis. (r) Lib. XXIX. cap. 1- (») What Pliny has written concerning Asclepiades, may have been copied Ccom some malignant detractor.