XIX HISTORY OF MEDICINE. How »re.it an advantage was gained by opening living animals to illustrate physiology must be eviilont, for many things would have hitherto remained unknown, but for opening animals alive, certainly without this assistance, neither ncropbilus, foimerly, nor any one after him, could have detected the lacteal vessels, nor would the thoracic duct, bj'Pecquet; the circulation of the blood, by Harvey; the peristaltic motion of the intestines, by Wepfer; nor the irritability and sensibility of parts, by Haller, have ever been discovered. The utility of this method of proceeding in physiology, was very great, but it should be carefully restrained within due bounds; for the structure of brute animals ought to be very cautiousl}' compared with human beings, and animals, under torture, may not demonstrate truth, in their dying moments. The minute investigation of dead bodies after diseases, by the Egyptians, posterior to the time of Hippocrates, who were the first people that opened subjects to discover the latent causes of complaints, for there were anatomists appointed and supported by the kings, which plainly appears, by the words of Pliny, when speaking of the raphamis (horse radish) which was found useful in a consumption, or decay of the heart, a disease then very common in Egypt and discovered after death. Lib. XIX. cap. v. “ Tradunt et prcecordiis neccssarmm fiujiis (raphani nempe) succum : qitando phfkixim cordi hitus inhxrcntem “ non alio potiiisse depelli compertum sit m JUgypfo, llegibus corpora juortuorim ad scrutandos niorbos insccantibiis.” This seems to have been first done under the Ptolemys, the son of Lagus, and Ptolemy Philadelphus : but it is not very probable that the kings themselves performed or assisted at this work, when they had (appointed) people equal to the task, and perhaps the te.\t of Pliny, Regibus insectantihus should rather be read Regibus inspeefantibus, for even the kings might have been induced, by curiosity, to inspect the dissections, to discover the causes of disease and death. The distinct arrangement of diseases into cause, origin, &c. as in the books of Hippocrates, by which we see how attentive the ancients were to every circumstance of a complaint. The knowledge, choice, preparation of medicines, &c. these became gradually known, cither by chance, spontaneous desire, or imitation of the natural instinct, observed in brute animals. The stronger kind of medicines seem to have been first known to the ancients, as purgatives and emetics; for since they were not so sensibly aftected by the milder sort, their powers and effects were neither so soon observed, nor registered. But the writings of Hippocrates shew, that the ancients were acquainted with a considerable number of medicines, in which there is an account of many very efficacious remedies; Lc Clerc has diligently collected and arranged them, so as to be seen at one view. Besides, it is necessary to mention, that the ancients used the greatest caution in the application of remedies, and did not immediately give their medicine : for example, when Hippocrates was called to a patient labouring under diarrhoea, he did not prescribe a remedy to stop it immediately, but prudently enquired first, whether the patient was relieved or debilitated by the continuance of the diarrhoea, or whether it were an effort of nature to exonerate herself of some morbific cause by the evacuation, ox whether, if longer continued, it would destroy the life of the patient After carefully examining and reflecting on these things, he either left the diarrhoea to itself, or endeavoured to restrain it by proper remedies. Hippocrates, the Coan, descended from the family of jEsculapius, and the eighteenth from him was born in the island of Cos, in the first year of the eightieth olympiad, thirty years before the Peloponessian war, and four hundred and sixty years anterior to the birth of Christ. Heraclides of Cos was his father, he had an uncle of his own name Hippocrates, the first. He was related to Hercules on the mother’s side by a twentieth generation ; for .Esculapius mariied the daughter of Hercules; he was cotemporary with the greatest men of Greece, Socrates, Herodotus, Tiiucydides, Uejiiocritus, and others. He was educated attempt actions above the vulgar comprehension, but little minds industriously employ their whole genius in servilely adapting themselves to tho common prejudices of the multitude. The superior excellence of the first are only known to the discerning few : the others, from similarity of »ouJ» and leisure for stratagem, impose on the major part of mankind. 1 hese epistles, likewise, contain a description of the luxury of the inliabitants of .Abdera, and mankind in general in those ages. The Greeks, about the same, period, were in a most voluptuous, lethargic, and corrupt state, which soon terminated in the total subversion of their liberties: for Philip, the Macedonian prince, in proportion as they were indolent and credulous, became vigilant and enterprising, availing himself of the de- pravity and corruption ot the times. He bribed the principal inhabitants and senators of the different states, and, by slow, imperceptible degrees, planned their overthrow. Ibis was afterwards accomplished his son and successor, Alexander. The most excellent and powerful orator, De- mosthenes, could scarcely rouse a spirit of opposition in the Athenia:is; nor could they be excited to any noble or patriotic action to retard the growing power of Philip. A fatal supineness, and slothful security had seized their souls, and beuuiubcd every ealerpriiing faculty ; thus they fcli a sacrifice to the ambitious conqueror, and illustrious protector of Aristotle auU science.