( H ) PLATE XXII. The >Ahsiorhent Lymphatic System, This system includes the lacteals, mesenteric glands, receptaculum chyli, thoracic duct, lymphatic absorbents and glands; for the purposes of conveying nutritive chyle and coagulable lymph to the blood. THE GLANDS AND Figure I. c, A portion of the-jejunum, b. A branch of the superior mesenteric artery. c. c, c. The lacteals conspicuous with their little knots^ d. An island of lacteals. e. A mesenteric gland, receiving the chyle from the vessels spoken of. y. An oblong gland with a simple inferent vessel. g. A gland, consisting of six or seven lymphatic inferent ducts. A. The vasa egredientia, vel effercntia, of a gland migra- ting to another gland of the next order. The Ij/mpkatic vessels, when they successively enter many glands, the first gland is then said to be of the first order, or genus; the next one to this, of the second order or genus; but • this division of Winslow is uncertain, and of no use in phy- siology, it may with propriety be omitted, because one and the same gland may receive from many glands and new vessels of different orders which are not yet called glands. i. The thoracic duct; there are two, a primary and a se- condary one. - i. Part of the aota descendens. l. The receptaculum chyli. A dilation of the receptaculum is often wanting in men. Haller says, it is wanting six times in 21. Dead human bodies, in which I have shewn the thoraic duct, I have seen the ampulla, that is, the cistern of the chyle. m. The trunks of lacteals opening into the receptaculum. ■' H. The cceliac artery. 0. The emulgent arteries. p. The inferior mesenteric artery. q. The iliac arteries. r. The sacral artery. LACTEAL VESSELS. s. Some trunks of the abdominal viscera and lower extre* mities. t. The thoracic duct arises from the receptaculum. Figure II. A little membrane, composing a lymphatic vessel visible by a microscope. a. A membrane of a lymphatic. b. Small globules dispersed through the membranes, c. Fibres, or small strias, resembling small vessels. Figure III. The coats of the thoracic duct visible in the microscope. a. The exterior tunic of the thoracic duct, consisting of large globules joined together in clusters. h. The interior tunic conspicuous with similar globules, but smaller. Figure IV. Aninjected gland, filled with mercury from the absorbents only, exhibiting a congeries of convoluted lymphatic vessels. ' Figure V. A gland filled with mercury, injected by the absorbents, ii this the cells ar^ very evident.