( 1?0 ) THE CAUSES WinCTI TEnWINATE THE INCREASE OF THE BODY ARE 1. An evolution of all the vessels. X. The strength of the vessels, not permitting farther exten- sion. 3. Such an extenuation of the cartilages as to resist farther increase of the bones. 4. A firmer food, by which a nutritious juice, containing more earth, is deposited in the interstices of the fibres; hence, they become more firm. 5. The heart increases in size less in proportion than the other parts, and its irritability diminishes; hence, a less and weaker motion of the humours. The menses of women seem to put a more speedy termination to their corporeal increase. The state of increase is said to cease when the body neither continues to increase, nor manifestly to diminish. After the thirtieth year’, the bodies of some men are apt to become corpulent, wliich arises from a great quan- tity of fat being deposited in the cellular membrane, and a diminution of e.xercise. DECREASE OF THE BODY. THE CAUSES OF THE BODY DECREASING IN OLD AGE ARE 1. All the fibres gradually become so indurated by a nutri- tious earthy juice, that they are more rigid and dry. 2. The more minute vessels being compressed by the dila- tation of the larger ones, that they gradually grow to- gether. 3. By the concretion of several of the lactcals, or absorbents, a smaller quantity of chyle goes into the blood. 4. The humours become acrid and earthy by a diminished excretion. 5. All the natural actions which form the nutritious juice arc depraved. From these reasons, it appears why the body increases in youth; is at a standard in the middle of life; and decreases in old age. In youth, there is more nutritious juice deposited between the fibres than is lost, whence increase of the body follows: in old age, there is less, to which we may attribute its decrease ; but in the vigour of life, what is lost is daily renewed, whence the acme, or utmost state of increase is observed. THE USE OF nutrition; 1. The conservation of our bodies; for if nutrition should cease, it would soon become dry and worn out. S. That the alkalescence and putridity of the humours, arising from the absence of tood, may be properly tempered by the effusion of a new chyle. 3. That the whole body may be excited and strengthened, which languishes by want of food. 4. That the body may increase in youth by a more consider- able nutrition. SECRETION OF HUMOURS. Secretion is the separation of any humour from the blood.. The secretory organs are the extremities of arteries and late- ral pores of vessels. All secretions are carried on from the arteries, except the bile, which is secreted from veins, performing the function of arteries in the liver. The blood is the mass of secretion, flowing through the ar- teries; for all humours are secreted from it. The blood contains the constituent principles of all the se- creted humours ; namely, water, jelly, oil, salt, and calcareous earth.* THE HUMOURS SECRETED FROM THE BLOOD, ARE DIVIDED INTO FOUR CLASSES: 1. Aqueous humours, which arc those not coagulable by mineral acids—as perspirable matter, the aqueous humour of the eye, the tears, saliva, pancreatic juice, and urine. 2. The gelatinous humours, which are fluid, and coagulated by mineral acids—as the vapours of the ventricles of the brain, of the pericardium, pleura, peritoneum, tunica vaginalis testis, liquor of the amnion, the synovia, or liquor of the joints, the gastric and enteric juices, li([uorof the uterus, of the lymphatics of the sheaths of tendons, the white of an egg. 3. Mucous humours, which are viscid, not coagulable by mi- neral acids, but become ropy—such as mucus of the trachea and bronchia, of the fauces, of the primae vim, urethra, and vagina. 4. Fatty humours are those, which, when dry, burn in a flame—as the oil of the adipose membrane, bile, wax of the ears, milk, the yolk of an egg. The proximate cause of secretion is, that every secreting vessel is smaller than the artery, from which it is formed, or the vein in which the artery terminates: hence, all the secreted humours, not even the mucus and semen excepted, are thinner than the blood, when first secreted, but thicker afterward. The diversity of secretion depends on the different properties of the humours, which are carried to the secretory organ ; and by the difl'erence in shape of the pore# and secreting arteries; the extremities of secreting vessels, therefore, are found to be stellated, pencillated, or like a brush, tortuous, &c. THE • Kow called by other names, which, in the ptcuent disposition of the Chemists, in their more accurate analysis of the human body, may again change.