*v HISTORY OF MEDICINE But the ancient Eaj'ptians used to practice medicine gratis, as they were remunerated by a public fund, and therefore had no occasion for private gratuity. They followed the rules prescribed by Hermes with such exactness, that it was unlawful to iluviate from them. If the patient could not be cured by those methods, the physicians were not blamed^ but if they trans- gressed the directions of Hermes, they forfeited their life ; for the legislature was of opinion, that the system, established by lon» observation and practice, confirmed by the best professors, was not likely to be improved by a /etu indhiduah* The following laws were therefore enacted, which wc find thus described by Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus:—That no person should transgress the rules to be observed in the disorder he had undertaken to remove, nor trouble himself with other complaints, but adhere to his own particular sphere. That no physician should practice physic, otherwise than as described in Hermes’s book, without risk of punishment if he did not succeed. And, finally, that the patient should not be purged before the fourth day, for fear of disturbing the humours.—This Aristotle mentions ; but does not approve of it. Diodorus observes, that all their medicine consisted in abstinence, vomits and clysters; which light practice gained the praises of Socrates, who says, “ The clergy, possessing such great advantages, invented physic to assist the body; and not such as “ consisted of dangerous medicines, but what could be taken with as much safety as our daily food, and was productive of “ such benefit that none can deny; but the Egyptians enjoyed good health, and lived to an advanced age.”—In Encom. Busirid. The manner of enibalming, or preserving their dead, is worth mentioning; for its eflccts are to be seen by the Egyptian mummies now in exisunce, with sacred characters, gilt and painted, two thousand years old. There was a particular kind of nu n attached to their religious colleges, who had the management of this business. The principal of them, and who directed the others, and made an agreement with the relations of the deccasedabouttheex- pcndiuiro, was called Sc/v7>a; he also pointed out the part of the body to be opened. After this, another, named Baraschkta i«cfsor cut open the abdomen with an .Ethiopian stone, and immediately retired. 'I'hc FuUinctorcs then came and tinished; one passing his hand throu.,h the incision already made into the abdomen, took out the viscera, except the heart and kidneys. Another washed the cavity of the body with palm wine and aromatics. It was then macerated with Egyptian nitre for thirty, some say fifty ; and, according to Herodotus, seventy days: afterwards, smeared with pitch from the cedar-tree. The Pollinctorcs now preserved the body with myrrh, cinuatnon, and other aromatics, in such a nranner, that 'he limbs retai icd their former motions, tiie eye brows, hair of the eye lids, and body in general, remain unchanged: it was then w rapped in cloths, with a particular kind of gum, which was also used as glue, or cement, and conveyed to its relatives. * Embalming was not always practised alike: there were three methods—one very expensive; another more moderate; and a third cheap. Diodorus says, the first used to costa talent of silver: the abdomen was laid open, as above described ; and the brain drawn out, by hooks, through the nostrils. The second cost twenty minaj, in which they did not even open the abdomen. Tin third cost very little, according to Herodotus, who says, “ The third method of embalming, “ by which those of small property are preserved, consists in cleansing the body by ablutions, and drying it, for seventy days, “ with salt.” There seems, likewise, to have been another method of embalming, if we may credit the assertions of Mr. Greon, who has paid particular attention to the subject: and declares, that when he saw a mummy, in which, not only the soft parts, but the very bones were discoloured, and almost black, from the balsam having penetrated so intimately; he was induced to believe, that the Egyptians boiled the bodies iii some balsam, until all the aqueous particles w'cre exhaled, and'the oily, gummy particles of the balsam supplied their place, by which it could be more permanently preserved.—See Transactions of the Royal Society (f London: and a Commentary of the learned Rouellc Memoires de I'Academic de Paris, 1750. Many conclude, from these circumstances, that Anatomy was well understood by the Egyptians, at that time. However, Schultz, in hist. Med. clearly refutes this opinion: for if they used to cut into the body, for the sake of embalming it, they could not, by that action, acquire any knowledge of its structure, since every thing was done with confusion, or rapidity; and the person^ after making the incision, was obliged to retire immediately, or be stoned. Nor > * Though this, too much, confined the art; yet it prevented daring inexperienced adventurers from promulgating visionary conceits, at tbe risk of destroying society, as is too often the case, at present. C