The ( '.48 ) CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD IN A FOETUS. A foetus receives its blood from the mother by the umbilical vein, and is returned to the mother by two umbilical arteries. ON THE lympAatic V^ESSELS. These arc fine vessels, carrying lymph from different parts, Their orginis from the larger cavities, or from the viscera. The termination of all the lymphatics of the neck, thorax, abdomen, superior and inferior extremities, is into the thoracic duct, and left subclavian vein. NEUROLOGY, or DOCTRINE or the ' NERVES. . THE CEUEBRAE NERVE.S ARE 1. Pair, or olfactory nerves, 2. optic nerves. 3. motores oculi. 4. pathetic nerves, 5. trigemini, 6. abducent. 7. auditory. 8. '’^gi* 9. lingual. THE THIRTY PAIR OF SPINAL NERVES ARE DIVIDED 1, Into eight pair of cervical. 2. twelve dorsal. 3. five lumbar. 4, five sacral. ON NERVES IN GENERAL. Nerves are long white chords, which cause sensation. THE ORIGIN OF NERVES IS DOUBLE: 1, From the brain. ' 2. spinal marrow. Their termination is at the organs of the senses; on the viscera; on vessels and muscles, THE SHAPE OF NERVES Is like branches. THE SUBSTANCE OF NERVES IS DOUBLE: 1. The sheaths of nerves, arising from the dura and pia mater. 'S. The nervous pulp, consisting of very fine particles, which contain the nervous influence. THE USE OF NERVES IS 1. For the sensation of a sensible part. 2. For the five external senses, which arc touch, sight, hearing, smell, and taste. 3. To excite muscular motion. Anatomists have divided nerves into those of the head, and of the medulla spinalis, or spinal marrow. Those are called cerebral, which, arising from the brain, pass out by the foramina of the cranium. Those are called spinal, which arising from the spinal mar- row, pass out through the lateral foramina of the ver- tebrae, THE NUMBER OF NERVES IS Nine pair of cerebral; or, from the brain, Thirty pair of spinal. ON NERVES OF THE HEAD, OR CEREBRAL IN PARTICULAR. FIRST PAIR—Olfactory, Arise from the corpora striata, and passing through the cri- briform lamella of the ethmoid bone, go into the cavity of the nose, are distributed by several branches on the pituitary membrane of the nostrils, and convey smell. SECOND PAIR.—Optic, Arise from the thalami nervorum opticorum, pass through the optic foramina of the sphenoid bone into the orbit, there perforate the bulb of the eye, and form the retina, which is the organ of vision.—They have a central artery. THIRD pair.—Motores Oculi, Pass through the superior orbital fissure into the orbit, and are distributed on the muscles of the eye. FOURTH pair. PaTHETIC, Pass through the superior orbital fissure into the orbit, and are distributed on the superior oblitjue muscle of each eye. FIFTH PAIR.—Trigemini, Whilst in the cranium, arc divided into three branches: 1. Into the orbital branch. 2. supeiior maxillary. 3. inferior maxillary. The orbital branch passes through the superior orbital fissure into the orbit, in which it is divided into three branches: 1. The frontal, passing through the superciliary foramen out of the orbit to the forehead. 2. The lachrymal branch, going to the lachrymal gland. 3. The nasal branch, passing into the cavity of the nostrils, through the orbital toramen of the nose.