( ^50 ) J. The sciatic nerve passes out of the cavity of the pelvis through the great sciatic notch, descending between the tuberosity of the ischium and great trochanter, on the posterior and external part of the thigh, into the popliteal cavity, when it is divided into the tibial and peroneal branches. The tibial nerve passes down into the sole of the foot, near the internal ancle, and divides into the external and internal plantar nerves, from which the digital nerves arise. The peroneal nerve is divided into many branches, and dis- tributed on the muscles of the leg, and sole of the foot. THE GREAT INTERCOSTAL NERVE. The great intercostal nerve arises from the sixth pair, and a branch of the fifth pair of nerves in the brain, which unite, and form one trunk, passing out through the carotid canal, and descending near the sides of the bodies of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar vetebraj, and os sacrum. In its descent, it receives two branches from each of the thirty spinal nerves, and gives off the following branches: In the neck it gives off three cervical ganglia ; namely. The superior, middle, and inferior. From these the cardiac nerves arise, which go to the heart and lungs. In the thorax, it gives off the anterior intercostal, which per- forates the diaphragm, and forms the semilunar ganglion, near the kidneys, in the cavity of the ab- domen ; from which nerves go to all the abdominal viscera.—The nerves, their connections, dispersions, and terminations, arc accurately demonstrated in the Plates. The posterior intercostal descends near the spine of the back and loins ; the os sacrum, and os coccygis, where it terminates. ADENOLOGY, or DOCTRINE of the GLANDS. OF THE GLANDS IN GENERAL. A gland is a small machine, used for the secretion of humors, fluids, or their alterations. THE DIVISION OF GLANDS IS INTO THREE SPECIES! 1. Follicular, consisting of a follicular cavity. 2. Globate, which consists of a knot of lymphatic vessels^ and have no excretory duct, and only alter the fluid. 3. Glomerate, consisting of a cougerics of vessels, to which there is an excretory duct. The excretory duct of a gland, is a fine canal, going from the gland, and conveying a fluid, or juice, secreted from if. Glands are also distinguished by the kind of liquid they secrete, Into sebraceous, muciparous, lymphatic, lachrymal, salivary, biliary, lacteal, Ac. THE USE OF GLANDS Is to secrete, or alter any liquor ; they are larger in infants than in adults. [GLANDS IN THE CAVITY OF THE CRANIUM. The glands of the dura mater arc situated near the longitu- o O dinal sinus. The pituitary gland is on the sella turcica, the pineal gland. GLANDS OF THE EYE. ' Meiboinius’s glands arc of the sebaceous kind, and situated near the tarsi, and internal surface of the lid. The lachrymal gland is placed in a cavity, at the external angle of the orbit. GLANDS OF THE MOUTH. THERE ARE THRP.E PAIR OF SALIVARY GLANDS. The parotid, situated under the ears; the excretory duct oI which is called Stenonian, and, going from the* ear, perforates the cheek, getting into the mouth at the third grinder tooth of the upper jaw, which should be well remembered in operating on the cheek, or ania- curable fistula may happen. The maxillary glands, lying under the angle of the inferior maxillary bone. The sublingual, lying under the tongue.' The mucous glands of the mouth are found in the tonsihj- uvula, and fauces. GLANDS OF THE NOSTRILS. The mucous glands are in the pituitary membrane of the nostrils. - GLANDS