( 156 ) OP PHYSIOLOGY IN GENERAL. PHYSIOLOGY IS A SCIENCE, DESCRIBING THE ACTIONS AND POWERS OF AN ANIMATE BODY, OR HUMAN BEING, DURING BII'E. FIBRES ARE ELASTIC, AND HEAVIER THAN WATER; For, being stretched, when the distenting powers cease, they recover their tone by contraction, descend in water, but deprived of the fixed air, or what is now called carbonic acid gas, by putrefaction : they are lighter than water, and swim on the surface. Earthy particles, says the immortal Haller, that excellent Physiologist, adhering longitudinally, and connected by an intervening cohesive glue : compose, in the hr^t place, one of the least, or most simple fibres, such as we understand, rather from reason than sense. A living man consists of body and soul. The body is a machine, composed of solid, and fluid parts. The soul is an incorporeal being, by which the living body thinks, and performs animal actions: the effects arc evident; the causes, in a great measure, incompre- hensible. It may be necessary, in imitation of the great Haller, to commence Physiology with some ideas of the minute constituent parts of the human body. FIBRES Are composed of moleculac, cohering together by the laws of attraction. CONSTITUENT PARTS, OR FIRST PRINCIPLES, RADICALS, &c. Present Doctrines, though still recjuiring future Haller. Terra. Ferrum. Gluten. Aer Jixus. research. f Nitrogen. \ Carbon. Hydrogen. Fkosphorus, and Sulphate of lime, &c. &c. THE visible FIBRES ARE COMPOSED OF OTHERS smallLr : The minutest fibres we see either by the eye, or microscope, are composed of others smaller, and easily conceived by the mind, though not demonstrable beyond a cer- tain point, • Lamina, a second species, whose breadth are frequently larger than their length: these interwoven together, form tela cellulosa. The smallest parts then we seo by the finest microscope, are either fibres, or an un- organised gelatinous concrete. TELA CELLULOSA. Of the first and second species, then of fibres and lamina, is constituted the tela cellulosa, DISCOVERERS. It was called, by the ancients, tunica musculorum communis, membrana adiposa, vaginalis, darton. By Carolus Stephanus, vincula cxigua, by which he said all the vessels cohered. After him Spigelius, T"cslingius, Marchettis, Vieussens, Mal- pighius, and Frederick F^uyscli, who first, by impelled air, demonstrated the proper tunics of the intestines, scrotum, (!xc.* Afterwards Douglass, Winslow Boer- haave, Kaaw Boerhaave, Albiniis, Bergen, Schobinger, Francis Thierry, J. Borden: and the great Haller him- self demonstrated, in 17-f7, the universality of the TpLA CELLULOSA, Forming almost every part of the human body. UTILITY. The labours of all these discoverers, and improvers, liave thrown new lights of infinite consequence, when ap- plied in medical practice, as will hereafter appear in their proper place. SEAT OF TELA CELLULOSA IN EVERY PART OF THE HUMAN BODY. It forms membranes, coats of arteries, veins, lymphatics, is dispensed in nerves, and constitutes their vagina, is in all parts called tunics ; in bones, receiving medulla: in short, every part of the body is Cellulous, and vas- cular, alniost without c.xception, HOW * See Dr. Rowley’s Latin Edition of Schola Medicirue Utimrsalis Nova, Haller, &c.