Ixx HISTORY OF MEDICINE., parts lying under the integuments. In the cure, the eschar will be separated, and the integuments are again united. But in consequence of the loss of substance, produced by the cautery, it is obvious the cicatrices will be corrugated and hard. For this reason, through the whole course of the cure, the arm should be lifted no higher than the cure of the ulcers rendered necessary; since, by this means, the integuments not being distended, the margins of the ulcers will grow more firmly to each other. After the ulcers are cured, the arm is, for a long time, to be tied to the side, with a view to render the cicatrices more firm, and to contract the space into which the head of the humerus used to fall down. Hippocrates advises, neither to retain the bandage too long, nor keep the arm entirely without motion; for, by tlie inspissation of its mucilage, the joint would become rigid and immoveable, (h) ON THE DISLOCATION OF THE ARM, AT THE ELBOW. WHEN the elbow is slipped, either to the outward or inward part, the distension must be so ordered, that the arm may be placed at a right angle with the shoulder. It is necessary to lift up the armpit, with a band put under it, and to lay the arm upon something, and about the joint to hang some weighty matter, or to press it downwards, with the assistance of the hands. While the joint is hanged up, it is necessary it should be thrust hard with the foreparts of the palms of the hands. When it slips forth on the hinder side, it must be suddenly extended, and, with the forepart of the palms of the hands, be forced into its place again, which also must be observed in reducing other bones. When it slips forth into the forcpsirt, laying a linen cloth upon it, wrapped up in form of a ball, it is necessary, at once, to bind and reduce it. If it slip into the other, or hinder part, when it is reduced, both of these also must be done. Another way of reducing the elbow joint is, to put a swathe or baud, wound up together, or a linen cloth, folded hard, yet not very great, laid across that part where the bending of the arm is; then to bend the arm suddenly, and as much as possibly you can, to bring the hand to the head of the shoulder; for this way is very sufficient for those who have slipped it forwards or backwards. LUXATION OF THE CLAVICLE. HIPPOCRATES says, it will be conveniently reduced, if a man be laid on his back; laying a pillow between his shoulders, near the back-bone, or else a bolster, or some such thing, that by this means the whole breast may bend. This ' i he expressed by the word ■zrEifpooir. Wherefore, the patient lying in this posture, the physician, with one wourul, shall' i thrust back the top of the shoulder, which is removed to the side, toward the outward part; for, so the parts of the neck bone drawn away, will much retire among themselves, the bended posture of the breast conducing very much thereunto; and, with the other hand, he shall reduce, and bring together the parts of the neck-bone that were dislocated. The shoulder is to be thrust up near the side; sometimes it suffices to be joined afterwards. ' r OF THE DISLOCATION OF THE FEMORIS. HIPPOCRATES, in liis Treatise De .Articulis, has laid down this conclusion. About the coxae, there is great difference whether the head of the os femoris be luxated towards the internal, or external parts; there is also a dift'erence, though ; a less considerable one, when It is luxated at the knee. When speaking of the reduction of the os femoris, lu.xated to the i interior parts, the apparatus is so ordered, that when the extension is made, an assistant is to move the bone from side to side, till it return to its natural situation. In his book De Articulis, luxation of the os femoris, towards the exterior parts, is mentioned. When the flesh, into which the head of the articulated bone is slipped, becomes callous and tough, the pain ceases for a time, and, when such patients are free from pain, they can, if they have an inclination, walk without a stuff, and support their bodies on the affected leg. If the os humeri, luxated at the cubit, to the exterior parts, is not immediately reduced, violent inflammations ensue; but if it is luxated to the posterior parts, it excites an intense pain, and violent continual fevers, accompanied with an evacuation of unmixed bile, which in a few days proves mortal. lu Ihe baiidage is net to be on loo long, nor the joint kept without motion.