XXV HISTORY OF MEDICINE. The soul of man is seated in the left ventricle of the heart; and from thence commands the rest of the faculties of the soul: (g) and it is nourished, neither with meat, nor drink, from the stomach; but with a briglit and pure substance, secreted from the blood. The soul creeps into a man being mingled with fire and water, (h) TTie souTof man is increased until death. The caus -s of all those things, whereby the soul is altered, are to be referred to the nature of the passagt^ through which it penetrates. For as the vessels are affected, into which it retires, into which it falls, and with which ft is mixed; such is their condition: and therefore we cannot, at all, cure them by diet: for it is impossible to alter or change the invisible nature. The brain is the seat of coldness; (i) it attracts all kinds of expirations; whereof it becomes filled with vapors, because it is seated in the upper part; whereunto all vapours ascend. The excrementitious humors pass out of the brain by several ways: fArJ through the nose, ears, eyes, palate, into the throat, and aspera arteria, through the veins into the spinal mar- row, and blood. The brain is considered a gland; and he imagined, that smelling was performed by the brain drawing up the odors with the air. When a man draws in air by his mouth, (1) and his nose is shut, first of all the breath eomes to the brain. The ear is perforated, and in that part we hear; yet the empty cavities about the ear, do hear only a confused noise ; (m) but that which enters through the membranes, into the brain, is heard distinctly, where there is a perforation through the membrane that invests the brain. We hear, because the holes of our ears reach to the dry and stony bone; to which is added a canal, or fistulous cavity, against which hard bone, the sounds do beat; and the hollow bone, because of its hard- ness, yields a resounding. Now in the hole of hearing, near that hard bone, there is a film, like a cobweb; (n) the driest of all the membranes of the body; but t/hat which is driest is fittest to conceive or receive a sound, as may be proved by many arguments. When this membrane therefore yields the greatest resonance, then we hear best. The brain has in it a faculty of smelling, though it be moist, and drove through cartilaginous bodies that arc dry, together with the air, the odors of dry things. For the brain reaches even to the cavity of the nose, having no bone in its way, but only a soft gristle like a sponge, which you can call neither a bone nor flesh. If, therefore, the cavity of the nostrils be dry, then does the brain better and more exquisitely perceive the odors of dry bodies; for it cannot smell water, because it is moister than the brain ; unless it is corrupted, (o) In like manner, when the nostrils are moist, we cannot smell, because all that lime the brain draws not the air into itself. There is no passage tending to the nose, but a loose and spongy substance, and that is the reason why we hear farther than we can smell; (pj for if the scent be far from the sense, it is diffused before it reaches thereto. There are some, who, writing on the nature of things, have affirmed, that the brain makes a sound, which cannot be, for the brain is humid and moist; and no moist body can make a sound. The sight is nourished by the humidity of the brain, (q) Hippocrates called the arteries beating veins, and frequently confounds the nerves, arteries, and veins, calling them promiscuously, rovovr. The origin of the nerves, he says, is from the neck to the spine, (r). OF THE BONES. THE bones give stability, rectitude, and form to the body. Where there is more fat than gluten, there are bones formed : they are condensed by heat, and so grow hard and dry. By his book De fracturis, we may presume, that he had a toler- able knowledge of the bones, their situation, and connexion. Pausanias relates, that a brazen skeleton was consecrated by Hippocrates, to the Delphian Apollo. The generation of teeth is threefold, the first from the semen in the uterus; (s) the second fiiom the milk; the third from more solid aliments. '1 he figure of all the bones depends on the magnitude of the brain and skull, (t) h BREASTS fe) Dc cordc. (/i) De dieeta. (i) Brain, the seat of cpldnejs. (h) De loc. in homin. (1) De morbo sacro. (in) De locis in homin. (n) De carnibus. (o) De carnibns. (p) De loc. in homin. (j) De loc, ia honrin. (r) De natur. ouiuin . (s) De cainibus. (t) The figure of the bones depend on the magnitude pf the brain.