Ixxxv • HISTORY OF MEDICINE. The authority of Herophilus was so great in anatomy, that almost all the names he assigned to the different parts are still preserved. The principal discoveries of Erasistratus, was his finding out certain white vessels in the mesentery of sucking kids, which, he believed to be arteries, (b) He added, that these vessels seemed at first to be full of air, and afterwards chyle. Erasistratus, and Herophilus, were the first who knew the true and genuine use of the brain, and nerves ; or, at least, the OSes ascribed to them by all succeeding anatomists. (c) We examined, says Erasistratus, what the nature of the human brain vvas, and we found it divided into two parts, as it is in all other animals. It had a ventricle, or cavity, of a longitudinal form. These ventricles had a communication with one another, and terminated in a common opening, according to the con- tiguity of their parts, reaching afterwards to the cerebellum, where there was also a small cavity ; but each part was separated from the other, and shut up in its proper membranes ; and the cerebellum, in particular, was wrapped up by itself, as well as the brain; which by its various windings, and turnings, resembled the intestinuin jejunum. The cerebellum was, in like manner, folded and twisted different ways, so that it was easy to know, by seeing it, that, as in the legs of swdft running ani- mals, such as the hart, hare, and some others, we observe tendons and muscles, well calculated for that purpose ; so in man, who has a larger share of understanding than other animals, this great variety and multiplicity of foldings in the human brain, was undoubtedly designed for some particular end. Besides, we observed, continues Erasistratus, all the apophyses, or productions of the nerves, which come from the brain ; so that, to say all at once, the brain is visibly the principle of every V thing that passes in the body; for the sense of smelling proceeds from the nostrils, being pierced, in order to have a com- munication with the nerves. The sense of hearing is also produced by the like communication of the nerves with the ears, j The tongue, and the eyes receive also the productions of the nerves of the brain. Here we see, by the confession of Erasistratus himself, that he had dissected men. (d) He had also very accurately de- scribed in Galen’s opinion, the membranes that are formed at the orifices of the heart; and he maintained with Aristotle, that I the veins and arteries drew their origin from it. There are, says he, certain membranes inserted in the orifLces of the vessels of the heart, of which the heart makes use, either for the reception, or expulsion of such substances as either enter into it, or come out of it. Some, adds Galen, have been so rash as to deny that there were such membranes, and have considered them , as fictions of Erasistratus, or a kind of hypothesis invented to support his ow n system. But these membranes are so well known by anatomists, that none but novices in the art, are ignorant of them. There are, continues Galen, three of these membranes at the vena cava, which resemble the points of arrows; whence some of the dis- ciples of Erasistratus, have callen them Tfty^uxmr, tricuspides. There are also at the orifice of the arteria venosa, for so I call the artery which, rising from the left ventricle, dispensed itself in the lungs, membranes of a like form, but of difierent names, for that orifice has only two membranes. The other two orifices, 1 mean that of the vena arteriosa, and that of the arteria magna, have also each of them three membranes, resembling the sigma of the Greeks, which resembled our C. Here Galen, ceasing himself to speak, again introduces Erasistratus, saying, that these two last orifices are equally disposed to convey any thing from the heart; that through the former the blood flows to the lungs, and through the latter the spirits, in order to be distributed through the whole body, ('ej Thua it happens, continues Erasistratus, that these membranes, al- ternately perform opposite offices to the heart. Those that are adherent to the vessels by which substances are carried into the heart, bend inw;ards, that they may yield to the.iippetuosity of such things as are carried towards them, and lying in the very cavities of the heart, may open its entry for the introduction of such substances as are attracted to it. For we have no reason lo imagine, that such substances enter the heart of their own accord, as if it were an inanimate receptacle ; but the heart, by its diastole or dilitation, draws them to it, as the,blacksmith’s bellows does the_air; and in this manner the heart is filled. The membranes of those vessels, on the other hand,, which serves to convey things from the heart, are quite differently disposed and situated ; so that, yielding easily to the substances coming from the heart, they open their orifices, and allow nothing to return which is once forced out, just as the membranes of the vessels, that serve to introduce things into the heart, shut the orifices of these vessels, upon the heart, contracting itself, and allow nothing to be carried out, which is once thrown in. •i He (k)'Gal«n aniuuigiu&gitnatosainaeteriis, cap..^ it.adroiniatrat. anat. lib. 7, cap. ult. (<1) DeHippperat. et Platon. Decret. lib. 1. cap.^lO. aadlfo. b. cap. .VI. (eji Hete some part of the text seems to be wauting. G.alem