( 100 ) PLATE L. The Organ of Hearing. Figure I. Represents the organ of hearing, rather larger than in its natural state. The ear is .the argan .of hearing; in which three cavities arc to be considered, viz. externalj or outermost, middle, and inmost. , n. Aurisexterna ; contains the auricle, and meatus auditorius. b. The ala, or pinna ; is the highest arched part of the auri- cle. c. Helix, capreolus; external eminence of the margin. d. Antkelix; interior eminence, panallel to the former. e. Scapha; a furrow between the above-mentioned eminences. J'. Tragus; an eminence next to the temples, g. Antitragus; a prominence, joined with a lobe, h. Concha; a cavity going towards the meatus auditorius. i. Lobe; a part of the auri- cle hanging downwards, k. Part of the squamosc temporal bone. 1. Os petrosum; contains the internal car, or seat of bearing, m. Extremity of the mastoid process, n. Styloid process, o. Sinus mastoideus. The internal parts of the ear are contained in the petrous bone. p. Meatus auditorius ; in it are hairs, and ceruminous glands, the canal is tortuous, anteriorly cartilaginous, posteriorly osseus. q. Membrane of the tympanum; it is contained in a kind of sulcus in the osse- ous annulus; it is constructed of four lamin®, viz. cuticle, and cutis of the meatus auditorius, periosteum of the meatus, and periosteum of the internal cavity; above by a short tela cellulosa placed between these la?nincc. r. The figure of the cavity of the tympanum is irregular; the capacity of the cavity is increased by the cellulosaj of the mastoid process: the interior parts are directly opposed to the membrane of the tympanum, in which there arc two broad osseous fovere, or depressions, called Fenestra;; anteriorly, the cavity ex- tends by a declining orifice into the tuba Eustachii, which be- hind opens into the fauces, and infundibulum, s. Chorda iympani. t. Ossicula auditus; malleus, incus, os orbicularc, stapes, u. Canales semilunares; superior, middle, inferior, they open into the vestibulum. sr. Cochlea, x. Aqueduct of Fallopius, a canal extending from the labyrinth, inflecting in the petreous bone, and patulous, between the styloid process, contains a nerve, v. Tubia Eustachiana; a canal, partly .osseous, and parliy cartilaginous, extending to the’palatum, and there patulous behind the tonsils; itma3'be relaxed, or contracted by its muscles; it serves for the admission of air and Sound ; when it is closed, or obstructed, tlic hearing is diminished, or abolished, z. Apertura of the Eustachian tube. Figure II. Malleus, much larger than in its natural state, a. Malleus. 6. Its head. c. 'I'he neck. d. The long crus runs out to the manubrium, e. Tl<e short cius goes to the mastoid cells, f. Ihe manubrium runs between the laminae of the membrane of the tympanum, and between the perios- teum of the tympanum, and meatus auditorius, to the center of its membrane, which it elevates. Figure l\{. Incus: consists of a body, and two crura; the os orbicularc is annexed to the longer crus, a. Interior suidace. Figure IV. Os orbicularc; is connected on one side with the long crus of the incus, on the other with the stapes, which is situated anteriorly at almost a right angle. Figure \. Stapes: it adheres by its basis to the fenestra ovalis, and closes it by means of the membrane drawn round it; it has a muscle, called Stapedius. Figure W. Ossicula, in their own situation with the mem- brane of the tympanum, as they appear within the cavity, and above, from the top of the left bone of the temple. a. Malleus, its manubrium, inserted in the membrane of the tympantim; the head is connected upwards, with the incus by ginglinius; the short crus is connected to the membranous expansion to the cellulae of the mastoid process, b. Incus adheres to the malleus, and os orbiculare. c. Os orbicularc, between the incus and stapes, d. Stapes. Figure VH. Cochlea, twice as large as nature, a. Cochlea : is a conical canal around the osseous cone, called Mediolus, two and half times convulaled; it is divided into two cavities, from the top to the bottom, by a kind of spiral, very friable lamina; hence the cavities are called 5c(7/a>,of which the anterior, and rather narrow beginning, from the vestibulum, is called 5'c«/a Vestibuli; the other posterior, and large, com- mences from the fenestra rotunda, which is a little turned to- w'ards the tympanum, and is called Scala I'ympaiii. The end of these scalae is towards the apex of the mediohisjnst mentioned, in which place a slight sinus is excavated like an infundibn- liuin. In that place it becomes a spiral lamina, not witli bone, but with membrane; and the scalm on both sides open into it, which appear to communicate together in this place. b. Canales semicirculares superiorcs. c. Fenestra rotunda, situated interiorly, and posteriorly; above this fenestra, there is a membrane from the periosteum of the tympanum, anil cochlea, and separates the cavity of the cochlea from that of the tympanum, d. There is a superior and inferior ovalis, which leads to the vestibulum, the stajjcs at its base lies upon this ; the fenestra is closed by no peculiar mem- brane. e. Foramen, for the portion of the nervus durus. f. Scala tympani. g. Scala vestibuli. Figure VIII. The labyrinth; to this part belong the internal cavities of the petrous bone: semicircular, canals, bfc. a. Cochlea, b. Labyrinthas superior, c. Labyrinthus mc- dius. d. Labyrinthus inferior, e. Vestibulum; is the middle cavity between the cochlea and canals; the three semicircu- lar canals open into the vestibulum by five dilfcrcnt foranii- nula. J. Scala vestibuli. g. Scala tympani. h. Theentiance of the portion of the soft nerves into the vc.stibulum. The labyrinth reflects th.J sound, by which the nerves more strongly vibrate. Figure IX. Section of the cochlea, with the vessels of fho membrane of the spiral lamina, which are taken away, except the uppermost part, a. Scala vestibuli, b. Scala tympani. Figure X. Section of the cochlea, which contains the fo- ramen of the auditory nerve.