vlii INTRODUCTION, &c. which there are many very curious circumstances in the Mugia et Tkeologia Hieroglyphica, to which we refer the reader. They held magic schemata of this kind of great efficacy and virtue in the cure of occult diseases; for the genii, to whom the rites and ceremonies were offered, were supposed to appear during sleep to those who were expiated by a previous faith, or disposition, and teach them the cure of diseases, as the scribe Astrampsychus relates concerning the epie. He consulting Isis concerning an incurable dis- ease in the night time, saw the same standing with ox’s horns a flowery tutulus, a variegated garment, in the same manner as they represent her hieroglyphically adorned in adytis, or altars; she offered to him with her hands the herb motmutbu the only medicine for the disease with which he suffered, which herb, when after sleep he had carefully ob tained, he cured himself, and as many as were troubled with this disease, by its application, from the fear of death. Sec many circumstances concerning these things in hieroglyphic medicine, and/nogic. The Greeks imitated this. Two fingers arc placed near it, the one R. with a male^ the other X. with a female habit, tututi, or tutelary deities, with flowery sceptres and swelling breasts, who seem by their looks towards Jynges, the first mind, to attend his commands; the leaders or guardians of the sensible world according to Psellus et Jyngis, the administrator of these, and they indicate the active and passive principle of things; by the virile and female habit with the swelling breasts, they pourt'ray foccundity; by their contracted hands they shew efficacy in acting ; by their tutuli and sceptres, they exhibit a power given to them in all things from the lynx ; in the tutulus trigonus affixed to the globe, they shew that all things flow from an archetypus trigonus, or archetype triangle ;* by the serpents contorting themselves in the tutelary figure X. the vital motion is observed in all things; by the word tutuli, they demonstrate, according to the ideas conceived in the Supreme Mind, they shew that He administers the orders of things; all which are confused by so many and so great mysteries, that, 1 will not say one page,, nor one wliole book, can properly explain them; wherefore it is sufficient to give a specimen of the mystic solertia, or comforts, with which the wise ancients adorned their sepulchres: he who is de- sirous of attaining farther information may consult the hiero- glyphic works, where he will find all fully described, and differently proved, in the Theologia iEgypliaca, and in the Exposition of the Tabula Bembina by Kircher, in the works of Jablonski, &c. Second figure—Osiris. Third figure—Horus. '' IV. You observe in the Ophis stone three sparrows ent out, then three circles, and afterwards three sphynxes like lionesses; after that the Conjuratio Nuininum, or conjura- tion of the deities, in few words in the Egyptian language. To understand this, I will explain it with equal brevity. By the three sparrows the threefold intelligible world, or archetype of the stars, Osiris; by the three circles, an evi- dent mark of divinity ; by the three sphinxes signifies three times three of the world; and as Osiris ancipitrinus, or Osiris with a hawk’s head, is the author of heat; so is Mompfita of moisture; from their just attemperation, all things originate, which are perceived in a threefold degree of nature; so also from their discrasia, or intemperies, it is ne- cessary that sterility is produced, to avert which they placed a patella of this kind as an amuletum, or amulet, on the head of the statue of Momphta, in addition to that which they pretended to obtain by magic murmur, or abjuration. The words in the .Egyptian dr Coptic Language are in English, O three times powerful divine Osiris, Mophta, Mophta, Mophta ! I beseech you three times by this sign, Thotii, Thoth, Thoth, i. e. Mcrcuris, who, as the keeper of the thre^ sacred favissje, or cisterns, the keeper, the keeper, powerful with the threefold sceptre of thy dominion, &c, V. Onuphus, a sacred bull:—for Nuphi, or enuphi, or even anuphi, signifies good but ehe, or ahe, signifies a bull, Onuphim; onuphim, may very conveniently be interpreted a good ox, because it portended good to Egypt, also Henuphi signifies in the Coptic Language, it, expresses copia, ubertas, abwidantia, plenty. The Other five plates are representations of rings, medallions, &c. from real antiques,, in fine preservation. They were engraved, or struck on various occasions; on one side of most is the head of some emperor, &c. on the other side is the representation of the deities, who, it was supposed, in those ages, presided over medicine. Among these are discovered Isis, Osiris, &c. of the Egyptians; Apollo, • Thij savours something of the Tiinity, and similar vestige* remain among the Asiatics, &c»