( *9 ) PLATE XXVII. '‘I Arteries of the Bi'ain, ^. I Upon removing the middle plexus, and cutting through the ■ great part of the uudated thalamus and cerebrum, the cere- ! bellum becomes conspicuous. The weight of the parts con- ! taining the anterior ventricle, makes them fall down on each I gide, and discovers the ventricle very beautifully. A A. Cerebrum: its medulla appears yellow from the blood of the dissected arteriplaj, but when these guttalae are wiped off, it appears white. The figure of the brain is almost an oval. Superiorly, it is divided into two hemispheres by the falciform process. . Inferierly, from the basis of the cranium into six I lobes. The external or cortical substance is greyish ; ! the intenial and medullary is white. I B B. Cerebellum. The processes from the cerebellum to the ! medulla spinalis are four; , in general, similar and equally I converging medullary columns tend downw ards from the crura of the cerebellum into the beginning of the me- j dulla spinalis, and touch one another with their utmost 1 • extremities. I Externally, they are moderately conspicuous from the j medulla, unless at its end, w’hich swelling in the form of I a club, re.semble some of the corpora olivaria. I On the internal side of these processes, some, but ob- I scure tumors, sometimes appear, subiubellous, and of a cortical nature. C- Part of the corpus callosum; transverse striae in the corpus callosum, are easily discovered more evident po- steriorly, but also lines of the same kind appear in its interior medulla. The corpus callosum is an oblong medullary prominence, w hich is conspicuous by turning back the anterior and middle hemispheres of the brain. ID D. Corpora striata externally cineritious. The corpora striata are two protuberances of a greyish colour anteriorly, under each fore ventricle one is placed. E E. The double semicircular centre, or tetnia semicircularis, 1 E F. 'I'halami nervorum opticorum, are two posterior protu- berances of the ventricles of the brain, whitish, and finishing in the optic nerves. They extend to the supe- rior ventricles of the brain, and to the third ventricle. G G. Their superior surface, exteriorly, is partly white, party cineritious. Iheir convexity tends towards the third ventricle, and receive the fornix, then in a direct line, as if resected, they touch together, and fre- quently coalesce. IIII. Lmea alba; it begins in the posterior commissure, and is inserted into the double semicircular centre. I. Posterior commissure of the cerebrum. !KK. Anterior crura of the fornix cut. _ L. Anterior commissure of the brain. This medullous, ro- bust, fibrous lunis, stretched beyond the anterior termi- nation of the ventricle, which unites the right medulla of the cerebrum with the left before the thalami opti- I corum nervorum, and before the anterior crura fornicis. ' It runs into that white fibrous commissure, which proceeds through the thalami and geminum centrum, and crura of the fornix, and gives some white filaments. : M. Testes; in the Jour quadtigemina eminences, are four collides, or eminences, the inferior, less, and more flat pair, is called testes, of which the exterior face is white ; they are sphericles divided. N. Nates; the more superior pair of the collides, nearer to the conario, called nates by the ancients; a vellum is placed on these collides. The corpora quadrigemina, therefore, are four eminences, or prominences, the anterior are called nates, the posterior testes. O. Glandula pinealis. P. Linea transversa alba, fourth ventricle. Q. Part of the medulla oblongata, which is the side of the fourth ventricle. R. Calamus scriptorius. S. Lime albcc, from which the nervus mollis arises. T. Fourth plexus cboroideus. VV. Part of the crura of the cerebrum. The crura of the cerebrum are two medullary columns, which proceed from the basis of the cerebrum, or brain, and are ter- minated in the pons Varolii. X X. Process from the cerebellum to the nates. Y y. Arteria profunda of the cerebrum arising from the ver- tebral. Z Z. Branches to the posterior processes of theeerebruim re- sected. a. First e.xternal branch, thence to the plexus medius and thalami. j3. Second branch to the testes and that plexus. cc. Third branch to that plexus. d. A branch of the arteria superior of the cerebellun going to the nates and testes. e. The left fourth nerve with a simple radix. f. Right fourth nerve arising from a double root. gg. Branches from the superior artery of the cerebellum to that viscus, h. Propago, or a shoot of the .superior artery of the cere- bellum deeper than the left. i. Artery of the nates and testes from the superior part of the cerebellum. Ic k. Branch from it to the fourth ventricle. l. A large branch to the nates testes, pineal gland, and fourth ventricle. m. Another branch of it to the nates and testes. 7/. Anastamosis of the branch a h 1. X. Branch from the profound trunk of the arteria cerebelli to the nates and testes. an. Right trulik of an artery of the^ame. bh. Another branch to tlie nates and testes. 00.' Arteriola:'to the plexus choroideus, arising from the inferior artery of the cerebellum. jt. Arteries arising from the anterior carotids totheprofunda of the cerebrum before the anterior commissure. q. And ascending behind that commissure. r. Arbuscula vilx. The superabundant humidity of the brain from the exha- lants, if not absorbed, produces the dropsy of the ventricle and membranes of the brain: the hitter of which 1 have proved curable, if timely discovered- Sec the Treatise. 1