C 149 ) Q q 3. The The superior muxillary branch, passes out of the cranium through the round foramen,proceeds through theinfra- ' orbital canal, and goes to the face through the anterior foramen of this canal, towards the superior maxillary bone. The inferior maxillary branch goes through the oval foramen of the cranium, then gives oflF a branch to the tongue, and passes through the mental canal, to the inferior maxillary bone. SIXTH p.iiR.—Abducent, 4 Pass through the superior orbital fissure into the orbit, and are distributed on the rectus externus muscle of the eye, or abducens. SEVENTH PAIR. AuDITORY, Are divided into soft and hard branches; both pass into the orifice of the internal meatus auditorius. The soft portion goes through the foramina of meatus audi- ‘ torius into the labyrinth of the internal ear; is there distributed, and forms the primary organ of hearing. The hard portion goes into the internal meatus auditorius of the aquecduct of Fallopius, and from thence through the stylo-mastoid foramen to the temporal foramen. EIGHTH PAIR. PaR VaGUM, Descends through the foramen lacerum of the cranium into the neck, thorax, and alxlomen, giving .off branches to the difterent' viscera in the neck, thorax, and abdomen. NINTH PAIR.—Lingual, Go to the tongue through the anterior cor.dyloid foramina. NERVES OF THE SPINAL MARROW. The nerves which arise from the spinal marrow, are called spinal, and pass out through the lateral foramina of the vertebrx, and of the os sacrum. THE CERVICAL NERVES. There are eight pair of cerv'ical nerves ; the first arc called occipital; these pass out between the occipital bone, and the first vertebra of the neck ; and are distributed on the back of the head and neck. The other seven pair are distributed on the muscles of the neck, and give origin to the following nerves : 1. The accessory nerve of Willis. 2. phrenic, or diaphragmatic. 3. brachial plexus. The accessory nerves ascend through the great occipital fora- men into the cavity of the cianium, and again pass out through the foramen lacerum to the trapezius muscle. it 1 The phrenic nerves descend into the cavity of the thorax, and go to the diaphragm, near the pericardium- The brachial plexus is formed by the five inferior pair of cervical, and first dorsal nerves, divided into six branches, going to the superior extremity; namely. 1. The articular nerve, distributed about the articulation of the humerus. 2. The median nerve, descending with the brachial artery info the palm of the hand; gives off two branches to the thumb, fore, and middle fingers; and one branch to the ring finger. • ‘7 3. The ulnary nerve descends from the brachial plexus, near the internal condyl, going into the palm of the hand, where it gives off; one branch to the ring finger; and two branches to the little finger. 4. The radial nerve passes down near the external part of , the fore-arm to the back of the hand, where it is dis- tributed to the muscles. 5. The external cutaneous nerve passes down near the median vein, as far as the thumb. 6. The internal cutaneous nerve descends on the internal side of the fore-arm, as far as the little finger. DORSAL NERVES. There are twelve pair of dorsal nerves, which run under the inferior margin of the ribs to the sternum, and arc called intercostal nerves; and distributed to the muscles and integuments of the back and thorax. LUMBAR NERVES. There are five pair of lumbar nerves, which are distributed on the muscles and integuments of the lumbar region and abdomen. SACRAL NERVES, There arc also five pair of sacral nerves, arising from the cauda equina of the spinal marrow, which pass out through the internal foramina of the os sacrum, and get into the cavity of the pelvis, where they are distri- buted on the urinary bladder, vcsiculae scminales, penis, uterus, vagina, and intestine, called rectum. The nerves of the inferior extremity arc formed by the lumbar and sacral, and arc three in number; namel}'^, 1. The obturator nerve, passing through the superior fissure of the oval foramen, is distributed on the muscles about the pelvis. 2. The crural nerve (with the crural vessels) passes out of the cavity of the abdomen, uncTcr Poupart's ligament: and is distributed on the muscles and integuments of the thigh and leg, as far as the top of the foot.