HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Purwor. lie was also the first who gave a raineral medicine ; and persuaded Iphiclus, who was without issuo, (iinproliS|) take rust of iron. We learn hy Pausanias, that, after death, temples were erected to his memory, sacrifices offered ; and, in fact^ that h? was worshipped by some as a deity. He left a son, who was heir to his science, but was not of equal celebrity ; his name was Th)odainas. Chiron Ceniaurus now follows, who, according to Xenophon, taught i^lsculapius Medicine ; and instituted the practice of hunting amongst other ancient heroes of Greece. He is not only celebrated for a knowledge of Medicine, but also for its application to animals. He is said, by Pliny, td have written on Botany, and the Materia Medica. There is a plant, which bears his name to this day, (Centuary) which fotmerly was also called Chironium. It appears, likewise, that he cured wounds and ulcers; hcc‘^use ulcers, difiiciilt of cure, were called—proverbially, Chifonia, as if the skill of Chiron, had been necessary to heal them. We also, find by Virgil’s CcM'g. Lib. 3. v. 549. that both Melainpus and Chiron were in great esteem ; mentioning the plague, and wishinj to §hew the insulhcieut power of medicine, he speaks of these two as excellent: cessere 7)iagistri P/ullirides Chiron, Amytliaoniusque Mdampus. vEsculapius, son of Apollo and Coronis, was his pupil, and made such progress in Medicine, that he was deservedly reckoned inventor of the art amongst the Greeks. He is reported to have travelled round the world, and exercised his talents on the sick ; but is most celebrated from having been one of the heroes of the Argonautic expedition. Plato and Suidas relate, that he was so liberal, that be re-called the poor from the infernal regions, and was planet-.'^truck, or died of gangrene of the lungs, which gave rise to the opinion that he w-as killed by lightning; the same word sideratio has both significations amongst the ancients. On account of the many and eminent services t^ mankind, he was deservedly numbered amongst the gods ; not only by the Greeks, but also by the Romans; and afterwards by other nations in a great number of temples erected to his memory. Schulz has given an index of them, taken from Pausanias. Ho left two sons by bis wife Epio; namely, Podilarius and Mathaon, who followed Agamamnon to the Trojan war, rendcrin^r very great assistance in the campaigns. Homer observes, that they did not practice in tlie plague,'nor other camp diseases but confined their attention to wounds only, by operations and applications ; from which it appears, that no. other part oP hlcdicine was then practised, and consequently their department, as Celsus justly remarks, was first cultivated. It is also evident, from Celsus’s account, that Medicine was, at that time, simple, yet sufficient and good, on account of the manners of the age, which were neither corrupted by sloth nor luxury. War always demanded surgery. Seneca likewise mentions the same thing, Epist. XCV.—“ Medicina quondam paucarum fait sekntia herharum, quibus “ bisteretur Jluens sanguis, xidncra coirent pauUafim, deinde in hanc pervenit tarn maltiplicem varictatem. Nunc est miram, “ tunc illam tninus habuisse negolii, frmis adhuc corporibus et facili cibo, nec per artem voluptatemque corrupto," These are the early advances of Grecian Medicine—inconsiderable indeed; yet promoted, in no nation more than amongst the Greeks, particularly in the family of iEsculapius, till the time of Hippocrates at Cos, by whom Medicine was first reduced into the form of a Science. Crotona was a town in Italy, to which Pythagoras went, after his return from Egypt, not being willing to reside at Samos, his own country, which was then under the power of a tyrant. Pythagoras here instituted a most renowned school, celebrated also, according to Celsus, for the study of Medicjne. Democodcs, son of a Physician, and himself a most eminent practiser of the art, came from this school, (Crotona) the fame of which became so great, that they were, reckoned, in those times, the best Physicians, who studied there. Democedes could not support the anger and moroseness of hie-fethFrPolycrates ; therefore, leaving Crotona, he went t0( iEgina, where he staid a year, and surpassed the most celebrated Physicians of that place, although he had no iastruments for the exercise of his art; on which account the inhabitants of iEgina, next year, gave him a talent; and, the third ^ear, the Athenians presented him with a Aa/irfrerZ ; but Polycrates, the tyrant of Samos, the fourth year, sent him two talents; whence it appears, that in those ages, there were ipen supported by public sa,laries, who flourished in Medicine. Dcmocedcs waiU t9 Samos, on thgse conditions, to have the cajrc of Polycrates, who was sent f<?r spop aftcf by Orseta, one Of