( 97 ) PLATE XLVII. FIGURE L represents the heart of a woman, with its contiguous vessels injected with wax from the RIG A. The whole'of the inferior vena cava, that is annexed to the right auricle, and diaphragm. B. The superior vena cava, inserted into the right auricle; its branches are C. The right auricle, resembling, in some degree, an horse’s ear, from which it ' received its name. D. The ventricle of the heart. E. A portion of the right auricle, to be seen in this situation of the heart, I which, in form, somewhat resembles a dog’s ear, \T. The pulmonarp artery arises from the right ventricle of the heart. G. The aorta, (or trunk of the arteries ' of the body) rising from the left ven- tricle, between both auricles, and the pulmonary arteries. II. The posterior portion of the left auricle. I, The bronchial arteries of Ruysch. K. The coronary arteries, and veins of the heart, arise from the trunk of the aorta above the semilunar valves. HT SIDE, IN its NATURAL SITUATI / It lies upon the diaphragm on its plane side, with the apex of the sixth rib to- wards the cartilage of the left side. The right and left subclavian. The external jugulars receive The internal jugulars receive The name of auricula is applied to the two caecal serrated sacs. To the re- maining cavity of the atria, the deno- mination of sinus is applied. It is called, with propriety, the Anterior ; it is much weaker than the other. The auricles are connected by the means of membranes, with the coronary veins to the heart. It is furnished with three semilunar valves arising from the heart; it divides into two branches. The aorta, when scarcely out of the heart, emits coronary arteries; then, on the left side, towards the spina doi’si, it makes a great arch. It is also called a Sacculus of Pulmonary Veins. They are distributed through the bron- chial vesicles, and the branches of the arteria aspera. Arteries are disseminated through the substance of the heart, and at length go into the veins of the heart. FIGURE II. N. It receives the blood returning from all the inferior parts, after the secretions are made. Tliey receive the blood of the thorax. The frontal, angular, temporal, auricular, ranine, and occipital veins. The lateral sinuses of the dura mater, the guttural, and maxillary veins. It empties the blood received from the vena cava into the right ventricle. It protrudes the blood into the pulmonary arteries. The auricles are separated by means of a septum in the right, or anterior, and left, or posterior antrum. The septum, in adults,' is closed in the foetus, per- forated, 1. The right pulmonary artery. 2. The left pulmonary ditto ; they are distri- buted through the substance of the lungs. From the convex part of the arch come 1. The arteria innominata, irom which the right carotid, and right subclavian, 2. The left carotid. 3. The left sub- clavian. Four pulmonary branches go into the left sinus of the heart. They serve to nourish the lungs. The veins bring back the venous blood from the substance of the heart into the right auricle. REPRESENTS THE SAME HEART FROM THE LEFT SIDE IN THE SAME SITUATION OF THE BODY, AS IF IT WERE BEHELD THROUGH THE RIBS. A. The aorta, arising from the left ven- tricle. 3. Part of the right ventricle, with the pulmonary artery. 3. The left ventricle, with the arteries, 1 and coronary veins. !!t is, with more propriety, called the Posterior. D. The auricular part of the left auricle. 2. The greatest part of the Ift auricle. \\ The canalis arteriosus, runs from the trunk of the pulmonary artery in the I fcctus into the aorta. Ir. The greatest branch of the aorta. The return of the blood prevented by tlic semilunar valves. The pulmonary artery pacing under the arch of the aorta, divides into two branches. Constitutes the heart primitively, is less, but stronger, than the right ventricle. Adheres to the left side of the pulmonary artery. Is called a surcuious of pulmonary veins. Moves the blood from the trunk of the pulmonary artery to the aorta. Descends towards th& lower parts. Sends off arteries all over the human body. They proceed to the right and left lobes of the lungs. The orifice opening towards the atrium; has only two mitral valves. Is seated on the Left ventricle. The four trunks of the pulmonary veins are inserted in this auricle. Is closed in adults, and becomes a liga- ment. C c