xlvii HISTORY OF MEDICINE In his Book De Internis Affi’Ctlonibiis, he orders four cantharides, without heads or feet, to be taken in a quarter of a pint of white and a little honey; and he says, if the liver become hard in those who have the yellow jaundice, it is a very bad sign. (x) ANGINA OR*SORE THROAT. A QUINSY going otf, and falling upon the lungs, (y) kills the patient within seven days, but if he escapes, there will come an imposthume of the lungs. For the cure of the sore throat, he opened the veins of the arm, and under the tongue, and breasts. He prescribed gargles, lambatives, which were to be used hot; and he likewise ordered fumigations. He advised shaving the head, and applying a cerate, and over that wool, to the neck. In great danger, he pierced the wind- pipe, fzj and put a reed or pipe into it. The drink recommended was water, and hydromel ; but by no means cold, or cremor of ptisan, (a) When the danger is judged from the crisis to bo over, (b) After the disease abated, he purged with elaterium, to prevent a relapse. MADNESS. HIPPOCPvATES, in his Book De Morbo Sacro, informs us, that it is by means of the brain, (c) that we reason, see, hear, and distinguish, betw'cen good and evil. By its means also, we become mad. (d) In his Book De Flatibus, he says, that the blood contributes so greatly to prudence, fcj that this is changed, and other notions and sentiments, possess the mind, if the motion of the blood be disturbed, and irregular. If the condition of the blood be good, prudence takes place, but when the former is changed, the latter fails w ith it. He observes, that madness is sometimes terminated by the hemorrhoids, as it is likewise occasioned by a suppression of the natural discharges. They, in whom tumors, with ulcers appear, are neither taken with convulsions, (f) nor driven into rage oi madness. But these, on a sudden, vanishing, since it must be done on the back part of the body, there arc caused distensions of the nerves, t and convulsions; but if on the forepart, then happens raging madness, or a sharp pain of the ribs, ora suppuration of humours, or a dysenter}', if the tumours were red. In his Book De Insania, after, says he, the brain is suddenly heated by the effervescence of the blood, in the veins, the patients have frightful dreams, the face and eyes become red, and the mind meditates mischief; but when the blood is again dispersed to the veins, these symptoms cease. For the cure of madness, he orders bleeding, drinking water with a portion of white hellebore, (k) and a proper regimen ; I and in his Book De Diaeta, he thinks purging with white hellebore highly beneficial in melancholic, timid, and dejected I patients. In his Book De Yeratro, he informs us, that before the use of white hellebore, (i) the body is to be moistened, 1 with copious aliments and rest. And in lib. 6. Epid. he orders the body to be prepared for its exhibition, by baths, aiid aliments. For the same purpose, he ordered asses milk to be drank, both before and after the use of drastic purgatives. EPILEPSY. j THE epilepsy is produced when various kinds of obstructions happen in the veins (h) and so intercept the motion of the i blood, that in some parts it stands still, enters others more slowly, and others more quickly, (1) and this undue unequal I conveyance of the blood, of course affects the whole body. They who are afflicted with the epilepsy, (m) before they arrive j at the age of fourteen, may be. freed from it ; but they who are affected w'ith it at the age of twenty-five, are usually trou- I bled with it till death, (n) Few patients, after their twenty first year, are seized with an epilepsy, (o) unless that misfortune should (x) Aph. 4‘2. Sect. VI. Coac. XI. 223. ad. 229. fi/) Pr:enot. XXII. 13. Coac. III. 100, 101, 105, 106. Aph. lO Sect. V. fz) Broncliotomy, Morb. lib. 3. ("a) De rationevictu in acunti^. (!/} Disease. (c) These notions seem contradicted in other parts of his works, and have been the subject of dispute, among many of Ihelearned. I (d) Brain the cause of madness. fe) An excellent observation on the blood. (f) 11 Epid. III. 129. Aph. 63. Sect. V. (g) Description. (k) Bleeding and hellebore* I (i) Thebudy to be first prepared. (k) I.ib. de flatibus. 1 (1) Unequal distribution of the blood causes the epilepsy, (in) 5. Epid.96. Aph. 7. Sect. V. I (n) If it happens before the age of fourteen, curable j after five and twenty not. (oj De Motbo Sacco..