XCIX HISTORY OF MEDICINE. venfrca. But it was said that he openeci two Spaniards alive, whom he could not cure. V'ery probfibly this story arose only from the publication of his curious and learned book on anatomy, an unusual production in those days. The most eminent anatomists, among many others, who succeeded Berengarius, in the si.xtecutn century, were Vesalius. Eustachius, Gabriel Fallopius. At length the immortal Harvey, an Englishman, physician to the king of Great Britain, James I. after dispelling the clouds of ancient physic, threw a new light on anatomical and physiological matters, by proving from experiments on living animals, and demonstrating by his writings, the circulation of the blood ; that is, its continual flowing from the heart through the i arteries, to every part of the body, and its return by the veins into the heart from which it flowed. Harvey published this r grand and most useful invention, in l628, at Frankfort, in quarto, afterwards in many other places revised and enlarged. Yet there were physiwans, infatuated w'ith the prejudices of antiquity, who opposed the most clear and decisive proofs, and preferred erring with the ancients, to embracing the truth with Harvey: and when they were obliged to give their assent to the rigid mathematical accuracy of Harvey's demonstrations, they omitted nothing that could derogate from the glory of his 1 invention. Some asserted that it was known to Ctesalpinus, Realdos Columbus, others as firmly maintained that it was men- j tioned by Cervetus, who was burnt at Geneva, in 1533, for his book De Trinitatis Erroribus. It cannot, however, be denied, ( but that a few physicians before Harvey, had some idea of the smaller circulation of blood through the lungs; but they were totally unacquainted with the greater circulation, through the branches of the aorta, and over the whole body, and never gave a clear demonstration of the other, consequently Harvey merits the honour of the invention. . , Others even went still farther back, and contended that the circulation was known to Hippocrates, because he compared the human body to a circle, which has neither beginning nor end : but his words arc to be literally understood to mean only the reciprocal actions or functions of the various parts of an human body: for every individual part acts in common with the whole machine, and vice versa; hence that wonderful reciprocity which is compared to a circle by Hippocrates ; besides, it is well known, the ancients believed the arteries to contain air, wherefore it must appear evident, that all enquiry amongst the ancients to find the same sentiments as adopted by Harvey, arc totally vague and unsatisfactory. How powerful and conclusive the experiments of Harvey were, may be known from his bringing over even public adver- saries to his own doctrines, after they had instituted the same trials; it is also worthy of remark, that V'opiscus Fortunatus Plempius, professor in the academy at Louvain, candidly confesses his error in these words. Fund. med. lib. II. cap. 7. “ Nuper in Anglia novam peperit de motu cordis opinionem, quam evulgai it Gulielmus Harvaus edito ea de re peculiari libello. “ Primuim mild inventum hoc non placuit, quod et voco et scrieto publicc testatus sujn ; sed dum posptd ei refutando et explodendo “ lehementius incumbo, refutor et ipse et explodor : adeo su?it rationes ejus non persuadentes sed cogentes." It is necessary to observe, that in consequence of this discovery, a new epoch of medicine was formed ; so that all physi- cians anterior to Harvc)', ranked with the ancients, but all, posterior to him, are classed amongst the moderns. By the name of sect wo understand that knowledge, by which any thing doubtful, though probable, is admitted as truth; it follows, therefore, that whatever is certain, and clearly defined, does not belong to a. sect: thus, the former Galenical doctrines of faculties and four cardinal qualities were a sect. The hypothesis of the chemists, chimeras of Des Cartes, and other specious opinions, without proof, were a sect. ‘ Those very flighty luxuriant fancies, cannot avoid forming transitory opinions, as often as they indulge in mere speculations, unconfirmed by experiment, or successful practice. ^ j No person yet studied medicine without following some sect; however, it may be clear of every one of them, if we take : only those things that are demonstrable, passing by all doubts and obscurities; which can be effected better at present than I formerly, since so many anatomical, botanical, chemical, physical, and mechanical experiments have been instituted, and me- dicine so much improveil, by such a number of repeated practical observations, that whoever compares the ancients with us, in these particulars, will soon find the great superiority of the moderns. I Maupertuis, therefore, certainly spoke very unjustly, when he said that medicine had scarcely received one improvement j during the space of almost two thousand years; and the Leipsic commentators justly accuse him of audacity and ignorance. 1 And, if we rightly consider anatomical experiments, nothing can be more useful, nor any thing more necessary, both to I attain a knowledge of the healthy state of the human body, and to explain the cause of disease ; by this only are discovered I the size, situation, form, connection, order, and structure, of the internal parts of the body, without which it would be im- I possible