424 llEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEaiA MEDICA. tenderness in the abdomen. He was treated with diuretics and a pur- gative drauglit, and at lo p.m. was bled to 500 grammes, with great relief. The uriue was abundant iind of a red colour, but free from blood. The next day there was still a little headache, but the lumbar pain had disappeared. Tiio patient was dull, and slow in answering questions. Ho passed no urine. On the following day a small quantity of red urine was passed, but on the fourth day none was excreted. On the fifth day he was much worse; he could scarcely answer the questions that were put to hira. His tongue was dry and brown, and was with difBculty protruded from the mouth; his face was of a yellowish-brown colour. There was still no uriue. He died the same evening at 6 o'clock. The post-mortem examination threw very little light on the case. There were no ecchymoses of the pleura or peritoneum. The stomach contained a gi'eenish liquid, similar to that vomited. The intestines were not injected. The liver was large and congested; its cells unaltered. The spleen soft. The kidneys large and congested, especially the tubules, in which the cells were granular, and contained a few fatty globules. The bladder contained some reddish urine. Dr. Taylor (' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' 1864, p. 220) relates a case of fatal poisoning by the external application of arsenic; he also gives details of several similar instances, derived from different sources. His case is that of a girl, set. 7, whose mother rubbed an ointment containing a large quantity of arsenious acid and of white precipitate into the scalp, for the pvirpose of killing lice. No serious eflects appear to have been produced for five days, but no medical man was called in till just before the child's death, so that the history of the case is doubtful. Even when the child became ill there were none of the ordinary symp- toms of poisoning, and she did not complain of pain till the eighth day, when diarrhoea also came on. Vomiting was altogether absent, but she became collapsed, and on the following day she died without con- vulsion. The scalp of the child was found to contain a large quantity of arsenic, two or three grains being estimated to be present in the portion of scalp examined. White precipitate was also present. The chief point of interest in the case was the question wliether arsenic was also administered internally. Dr. Taylor decided this in the negative, on the ground that the lining membrane of the stomach, though showing some inflammatory patches at the greater end, was not softened nor ulcerated, and presented no spots or streaks of irritation. The contents were slightly acid, and of a brownish colour. No solid arsenic was present, but traces of that poison were foimd, not only in the stomach and intestines and in the liver, but also in the contents of the stomach, intimately combined with mucus. No mercury was detected in the viscera or in the mucous fluids. Dr. Briskeu reports a case ('Casper's Vjhrschrft.,' 21;, p. iii) in which death apparently resulted from the introduction of some prepa- ration of arsenic into the vagina, though the quantity used was not ascertained. The subject was a woman, a?t. 25, who succeeded in bringing on an abortion, which was followed by niucli haimorrhage. She afterwards suffered from abdominal pain, vomiting, &c., and later