265 TIUiATJIENT OF ANEUJIISM. its ori"-iu. " The wound was dressed in the usual manner, and the man removed to bed. May aStb.—The ligature came from the carotid. May 29tli.—Ha;morrbage from the wound, but arrested by slight pres- sure. 30th and 31st.—The bajmorrhage returned. June ist.—The hemorrhage returning, Dr. Smith removed the lint, and filled the wound with smaFl shot. June 2nd.—Ligature separated from the arteria innomiuata. June 17th'.—A part of the shot removed from the wound, followed in a few hours by liaMuorrhage. The shot returned. July 5th and 8th.—Uffimorrhage returned. Believmg the hasmorrhage must be supplied by the vertebral artery, through the subclavian, it was de- termined to ligate the artery, and accordingly Dr. Smith secured the vertebral artery on the 9th of July. July 19th.—No return of hajmor- rhage. The ligature separated from the vertebral artery this day. A doubtful pulsation may be felt in the right radial artery. The aneu- rismal tumour has disappeared. July 30th.—General health much improved since the last report. The Avouud is nearly closed. He walks about the ward, and is desirous of returning home." V. Mott adds to this report, that on the 9th August, " Dr. Rogers called on me (having arrived the day before from New Orleans), and stated that the aneurismal tumour had entirely disappeared, that the wound had healed, and that the-man was well and walking about." G. H. Moore on a new metliocl of procurinc/ the consolidation of fibrine in certain aneurisms (' Erit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 455).—" In February, 1863, Mr. Moore had been led to review the conditions of such aneu- risms as could not be surgically treated through the artery, and had devised a method of producing consolidation of them in accordance with •the mode of their natural cure. " The principles involved in this method were the following:— I. Large aneurisms can only be benefited by the deposition of fibrine within them ; 2. The natural means of obtaining fibrine from the blood are inadequate, because it can only settle in layers on the wall; 3. In the central part of an aneurism there, is a large qnantity of blood with fibrine ready to collect on any apt material; 4. Pibrine may be elicited from arterial blood, by exposing a foreign body in it. Two cases were quoted in which this had occurred; one, in which gangrene of the leg had resulted from plugging of the arteries, by fibrine detached from a needle in the left ventricle; the other, that of a sailor, who died three days after being shot, and in the interior of whose ascending aorta was a bullet imbedded in fibrine. " The foreign body which, according to our present knowledge, would produce least irritation was wire. If a large quantity were coiled in an aneurism, it would attract fibrine, as the twigs do in whipping freshly drawn blood, support the mass which it entangled, and lead to the cavity of the aneurism being eventually filled. The wire might be passed in through a small canula, with care not to leave the last end in the minute wound, and not to direct a coil into the orifice of the artery. " Only a sacculated aneurism could be so treated, not one which had 1 two orifices, since fragments of fibrine would be broken olT by the force of the current. Brasdor's operation might be previously required in