SECUETOUY SYSTEM. 167 devoid of irritating properties, and probably passes through the gland rather by filtration tiian by true secretion. "With these views the patients were restricted to a fluid diet. They took from two to four pints of distilled water daily, and small doses of the infusion of digi- talis. AVlien the active symptoms had subsided iron was given. Out of 26 cases treated in this way 22 recovered completely, 3 were lost sight of while improving, i case did badly, and eventually died under other treatment. Many of tlie cases were of great severity. These results appear better than those aiforded by other methods. Among the in-patients at the Children's Hospital otherwise treated 11 died out of .39, and of 69 cases treated by Dr. Millar in dispensary practice 8 died. It was found, on an average, that the little patients were restored to apparent health in 30 days, while 15 days more were needed to get rid of the last traces of albumen. The use of the water did not seem in any case to increase the dropsy, but the contrary. It was usual, however, when the swelling was great, to let the digitalis set up a certain amount of diuresis before ordering the full quantity. The subsequent use of iron was believed to correct the effects of the disease, without influencing the disease itself. On the occurrence of secondary disorders, such as convulsions^or acute inflammatory attacks, it was argued that the treatment of the renal mischief should be sedu- lously persisted in, with such additions as might be called for. The anaemic state of the brain in uraemic convulsions, and their frequent occurrence after the exhaustion of diarrhoea or vomiting, were urged as reasons for abstaining from depressing remedies. A case was cited in which, under these circumstances, small doses of opium had been used successfully. Ollitier, Lancereaux, Danjot.— On Alhminnria in cases of Lead Poisoning. Arch. Gen., Nov., Dec, 1863 ; April, 1864. L'Union, 150, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 43. Ollivier has found in a series of cases occurring among workers in lead, who were neither addicted to drinking nor cachectic, that albumen was present in the urine. The albuminuria was eitlier merely tem- porary, ceasing by tlie tenth day, oi* it continued up to and after the . patient's dismissal from the hospital. Lead was discovered several times in the urine. Experiments performed on animals, in which acute poisoning was produced, showed also the presence of lead and albumen in the urine, and besides the alterations peculiar to morbus Brightii, together with deposits of lead in the kidneys. The duration of the unhealthy occupation and the kind of the antecedent toxic plienoraena did not appear to have any influence on the production of albuminuria ; on the contrary, individual peculiarities seemed to be of most import- ance. Ollivier regards the deposition of lead in the kidney as the essential cause of the renal degeneration, and this, again, as the cause of the albuminuria. AVhen the latter is temporary the lead probably only passes through the kidney. He suggests that albuminuria "is an attendant symptom on all poisonings, and is an expression of the ex- cretion of the poison through the kidneys. Lancereaux has recorded 4 cases in which albuminuria existed during life, and nephritis was