HEPOIIT ON SURGBIIY. 334 hospital for alleged hydrocele. The Hcrotum was the seat of a chronic enlargement of sucli considerable inaguitude, that a superficial depres- sion alone indicated the situation of the meatus. Sexual intercourse was utterly impracticable, and the patient complained of great inconve- nience in walking; in addition, the contact of the urine with the skiu gave rise to painful excoriation, colic was present, and the infirmity was altogether of a most distressing character. The patient had been informed that he was affected with hydrocele; but this was a mistake. Both testicles were easily felt perfectly dis- tinct from the mass—a circumstance incompatible with the existence of dropsy of the tunica vaginalis ; on percussion, a degree of resonance was, moreover, perceptible. This tympanitic sound demonstrated the true nature of the disease, which consisted in enormous inguinal hernia, ■with a voluminous pedicle, presenting all the characteristics of entero- epiplocele. There was in the last century an active controversy, which ended in such tumours being pronounced irreducible. Surgeons dreaded the restora- tion into the abdomen of organs which had long been displaced, and had lost what Jean Louis Petit called their droit de domicile^' within that cavity. M. Nelaton acknowledges that he once entertained a similar ■view, but on further reflection he has since altered his opinion, and now professes that the reduction of these herniie may legitimately be at- tempted, and that it is possible to effect this desirable result without injury to the patient. This, however, cannot be accomplished at once; and the perils adverted to by Jean Louis Petit doubtless arose from the fact that the tumours were reduced in too precipitate a manner. Bavaton adopted a safer practice, and endeavoured to attain the same object more slowly ; thus several of his patients remained for six weeks in bed with much ultimate benefit. M. Nelaton remarked, that, in a case of fracture of the femur in a man who for months had had a large unreduced hernia, M. Sanson took advantage of the compulsory rest, and gradually returned the intestine into the abdomen; no untoward accidents followed. M. Nelaton has since very frequently resorted, with advantage, to the same method. Tlie time necessary to attain the desired result may be shortened, if to the indispensable position be added pressure with M. Maisonneuve's elastic bands. These measures were adopted in the case here alluded to, and the hernia is now entirely I'educed. A well-made truss has been applied, and no functional disturbance has supervened to justify the apprehensions formerly suggested. M. Guyton on the mecliaiiism of strangulation, and the me of chloro- form during taxis ('Graz. Hebd.,' 1864, pp. 51, 68, 100, 132).—The author thinks sufficient attention has not been paid to the bowel in strangulated hernia, wliilst too much influence has been generally assigned to the constricting agent, the rings and the neck of the sac. He does not believe that the mechanism of strangulation can be ex- plained by pathological anatomy; he considers it a question for experi- mental physiology. He describes his theory at great length—shows its agreement with the phenomena; discusses the symptoms, course, and post-mortem appearances ; and, besides many interesting remarks, en-