TUMOUllS TJNDEE, MOLES. 271 cysts might present in the first wound; but although I tried this measure in the second of the cases above detailed, it certainly proved inefficient in checking the disease." Mr. Paget, clinical lecture on tumours tinder moles (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 58).—The occurrence of melanotic cancers under or in moles or pigmentary naevi has been long known. Among the cases of this disease, having their primary seat in or near the skin, more than half have thus grown in close relation with moles. Hence, "if a patient have a tumour growing in or beneath a mole, it must be con- sidered as most likely a melanotic cancer; or, if we have an increasing outgrowth from a mole, epithelial cancer must be suspected. And if in any one, especially an elderly person, a mole begins to grow promi- nent, or to become more vascular or more irritable, it had better be forthwith cut out or destroyed with caustic. I have known cases in which, when moles were quickly increasing, and changing just like those that have afterwards become seats of melanotic cancer, their total destruction has been the end of all mischief Of course, I cannot be sure that these would have become cancerous if they had been left; but I believe that, at least some of them would, and that the rule for the destruction of all growing like them is a good one. If the forma- tion of cancer be not quite averted by it, it maybe deferred, as it seemed to be in a case I have lately seen. A patient had many pig- menta,ry moles in his back. Kve years ago one of them began to grow, and Sir Benjamin Brodie destroyed it with caustic. The scar remained sound until a few months ago, when an epithelial warty cancer began to spring up from it." I Mr. Paget has also seen three examples of another kind of tumour, which he describes in the following manner:—" Growing on the back of the trunk, they lie imbedded in the subcutaneous fat. They are ■roundly oval, moderately well defined to the touch, closely connected Avith the structures round them, very firm, heavy, dully elastic, feeling like fibrous tumours. The skin over them is raised and thinned by their growth; adherent, but not confused with their surface; and, in addition to the dark tint of the mole spread over part of the surface the skin has a dusky, or ruddy and glossy, tint of difiused vascularity '• and enlarged veins ramify over it, or away from it. The skin, or the tumour beneath it, has been in two cases the frequent seat of hot burning pain; in the third there was no pain. The section of the tumour has a loAvly nodular, or tuberous outline, easily separable by dissection from the surrounding skin and subcutaneous tissue. The cut surface appears divided by whitish tissue into lobes and minuter iobules, much like those of secreting conglomerate glands. It is very pale, grayish-white, with tinges of yellow or pale purple, smooth on its section, and glistening. It may have minute cavities filled with fluid lor one or more larger cysts, containing serous fluid or grumous matter! dhe substance is firm, but brittle, easily breaking into small fragments yielding on pressure or scraping only some yellowish clear fluid, and no turbid fluid like cancer juice even after it begins to decay The microscopic appearances are too various and indefinite for anv uspfnl minute description." !