hepout on piiactical mkdicinr. 170 grauulo-eella, and epidermic scales. Cholesterine could not be detected in the masses; they consisted principally of stearine. Loweuson believes that under tlie inflnence of a continued inflammatory irritation an abundant epitliolial growtli took place, and the cells which were formed either immediately underwent fatty degeneration or after they had assumed the ciiaracter of large epidermic cells. Then the contractions of the bladder detached fragments of the fissured deposits, and out of these the fatty concretions were formed, the globular form being im- parted by mutual attrition and friction. It is not surprising that under these circumstances the wall of the bladder became hypertrophied. BiLLEOTn ; Beer.—Pathological chancjes in the Spleen. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 23. (I) Acute diffuse processes.—These may occur with or without swelling, with hyperajmia or anajmia, and with varying degrees of con- sistence. In the typhus spleen the venous sinuses are but slightly dilated, the capillaries and arteries not. In the veins there was quite a surprising quantity of cells containing 2 to 6 nuclei, just as in the lym- phatic glands of the same subjects. The normal cells are present in much smaller number. Among the larger cells it is not rare to meet with some one or two processes indicating their relation to the epithelium of the venous channels. In the splenic tissue and in the Malpighian cor- puscles Billroth was unable to discover these large cells. The Malpighian corpuscles were almost always poor in cells, and therefore were not so evident, but were never absent. The large cells were most abundant in the spleens of those typhus subjects who died in the first or second week; at a later period they were more scanty. If their size is com- pared with the width of the hepatic capillaries it must be admitted that some of them may stick and be arrested there, or at least may give rise to obstructions in the circulation of the liver. Jn pyccmia, septiccBmia, and morbus maeulosus, the consistence of the spleen varies ; the very soft quality is not characteristic, but dependent on the duration of the disease in each case, on the febrile marasmus, and the ana3mia. On accurate examination no niorphogical change was ever found except a j slight tumefaction of all the cell elements. In one case of morb. macules, the spleen, without being putrid, was almost in a state of pap, and after it was hardened contained extraordinary large amounts of myelinc products, leucin-globules, and cholesterine-crystals. (II) Acute circum- scribed processes.—Miliary iuhercvlosis affects the whole organ. The whole parenchyma is dark, full of blood, firm, and exquisitely brittle, and contains scattered through its substance a great number of white deposits, of the size of a millet-seed, consisting of fine granular, mole- j cular masses. Such spleens convey the impression that the Malpighian | corpuscles are greatly enlarged, but Billroth positively declares that the tubercles are chiefly situated in the splenic tissue, and very rarely in i the corpuscles, which are often compressed. The veins in the vicinity I of the tubercles are enlarged, turgid with blood, and contain a great I number of cells with large nuclei, almost as in the typhus^ spleen. I Hcemorrhayic infarctum and its metamorphoses.—Infarcta are as frequent I in the interior of the spleen as on its surface. Billroth doubts whether I they are caused by embolism ; he always found the venous sinuses in a I