289 EXCISION OF TUB KNEE. Niino, a famous gymnast in his day. " The object of these remarks i« to draw attention to the value of the foot, whetlier it comes directly in contact with the ground, or is the point of attachment for something to make up 'the proper length of limb on that side. In an anchylosecl knee tlie foot is of great importance in progression. Besides the me- chanical construction of the foot, its comparative size is of enormous value as a support; and what tissue of a stump in the thigh can compare with that of the sole and heel of the perfect foot ? " But I feel almost ashamed to carry this argument further. Persons out of our profession would think it strange to hear an argument in the College of Surgeons to show that the possession of a healthy foot is better than the absence of a foot; that a foot, leg, and lower third of the thigh, all free from disease, are better than nine inches only of a shrivelled thigh; that a nearly whole limb, two feet or two feet and a half long, is better than a shortened and shrivelled thigh which measures some nine or twelve inches from the hip. Tet such is the seeming argument to which I have been forced, for those who have opposed the operation of excision of the knee have almost invariably represented a good stump, as it is called, as superior to any limb preserved by such a proceeding. My own impression, however, is very different. I cannot say of a single instance coming under my own observation, that am- putation would have been better. I am not here to say that excision must invariably be superior to amputation; but this I will say without hesitation, that however short the limb may be after this operation, the parts preserved, provided the original disease is cured, and no special or great distortion be left, must be beyond measure superior to the best stump that can be made. I care not whether the liinb may be five or nine inches shorter than the other, my impression is that were the femur so much diminished in length by cutting and by want of de- velopment that the foot on the damaged side should actually be above the level of the sound knee, its presence would ensure a better support than a stump of the thigh. I thus admit and take what may be con- sidered an extreme case, such as has never yet been brought forward, and such as is likely to occur rarely, if ever. I do so to meet the exigencies raised by Messrs. Pemberton and Humphry, and par- ticularly to meet the all-important question as to the propriety of per- formiug this operation on young persons in whom the bones have not attained their full length. The reasoning—if such it may be called— on this question has been remarkable. It amounts to this: that as the limb does not grow after this operation in young persons in proportion to the rest of the body, particularly in proportion to the other limb, it should not be performed; for this want of growth, great or small, is an insurmountable objection. Tet, as I have shown, the shortening is likely to be as great after a tedious recovery extending over years from disease of the knee in early life. Por example, look at this leg and foot, and compare them with the other (referring to a cast). These shrivelled parts are the result of disease. But that is, indeed, a fa- vorable acceptation of this objection; and, to say the truth, it is not the view taken by those to whom I refer, nor is it a view which I myself admit for a moment. The question is not in such cases between 19