IIEPOIIT ON I'llACTICAL ilEDICI.N'B. 88 for at least 12 years, being able to move his limbs, but unable to walk. After (Joatli the posterior columns and the posterior roots were found utterly degenerated in tlio wliolo length of the cord. Salomon, M.—On Central Farah/sis ; an essay in differential diagnosis. Deutsche Klinik, 35—46, 1863. Sclnnidt's Jalirb., vol. i2i,p. .^oa. Leven.—Gaz. de Paris, 9, 1864. Sclnnidt's Jalirb., vol. 122, p. 184. Leven records the case of a female, a)t. ,31, who previously had liad indurated chancre, ami now presented an extensive pustulous sypliilide on the upper part of the body. Slie suffered during many weeks witli violent occipital headache and obstinate vomiting, against which Pot. lod. was of no avail. Soon she became dull, and her gait was tottering; in bed she could easily perform all the movements of the legs; her arms were weak, but neither their movements nor those of tlie legs were deficient in co-ordination. Soon after, slie had double convergent strabismus, associated temporarily witli double vision under the in- fluence of the will. The intellect and the sensibility were unimpaired, and the general functions were in good order. In a week after a mer- curial treatment had been commenced improvement took place; first the headache disappeared and the vomiting, then the dulness and the squinting, and in 6 weeks the patient was restored and has remained well. Leven believes the morbid phenomena to have been produced by the presence of a syphilitic tumour in the cerebellum. MoLLEE. — Apoplexy of the Pons Varolii terminating in recovery. Deutsche Klinik, 49, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 24. A female, £Et. 24, was suddenly taken ill with pain in the left side of the head and stiffness and numbness of the whole left half of the body, soon succeeded by paralysis. The facial and hypoglossal nerves were involved. There was difficulty of swallowing, but no loss of conscious- ness. The respirations were frequent and shallow; the pulse small, 140 ; the state of the heart was normal. In a few hours the paralysis had disappeared, except that the sensibility remained unimpaired, especially in the face, the speech was also imperfect, the special senses were normal on both sides. After 2 days another attack of collapse occurred, attended with a feeling of rigidity on the right side and paresis of the right arm. The morbid phenomena again gradually dis- appeared ; the anresthesia remained longest in the right hand, which continued also to be affected with slight tremor and choreic twitchiugs for a long time. The gait for a long time manifested derangement of the co-ordinating faculty, which, however, could be prevented when the patient directed specially her attention to the matter. Sobbing also Avas prone to occur. At last all that was left was a certain slowness of speech and movements. Moller remarks that the pons is indicated to be the seat of the lesion by the disorder so speedily affecting the two sides, one after the other, and by the maintenance of consciousness. Prom the existence and the long duration of impairment of sensibility it may be inferred that the posterior and upper layers of the pons were affected, which are specially traversed by the sensitive fibres. The derangement of the respiration and circulation he refers to an iude-