REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. 458 Yet he could make gestures, describing the way in which he was at- tacked. Witli the aid of an alphabet he answered clearly a long and minute interrogatory. When confronted with his master the play of his countenance indicated his feelings towards him, as well as the perfect state of his consciousness. The next morning his speech suddenly returned. There can hardly be any doubt that the mutism, like the rest of the case, was simulated. In addition to tlie paper of M. Tardieu, the opinions of five other eminent physicians are given, expressing full agreement with his con- clusions. As is well known, M. Armand was acquitted in the criminal court, but was afterwards heavily fined when the case was brought befoi-e a civil tribunal.* SUFPO CATION. Dr. "Wossidlo relates the following remarkable case (' Vjhrschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. P. i, p. 293). A young woman, about 20 years old, who had given birth to an illegitimate ciiild 7 days before, died 8uddenl3% Poisoning was suspected, but this was negatived by the autopsy. The signs of death by suffocation were, however, very distinct. The eyes protruded, the face was swollen, the tongue projected between the lips. The outer surface of the neck was in vain examined for any sign of strangulation; but a large ball of hay, the size of a goose's egg, was found in the back of the throat, reaching down the pharynx at the back of the larynx, and just visible when the mouth was widely opened. There was no doubt that this was the cause of death ; the question was whether the case was one of suicide or of murder. She had just before left a room in which were several persons. The mistress of the house went out to seek her, and saw her standing on the floor of a hay loft, and noticed, when she got near her, that she trembled and breathed with difficulty. When the girl was asked what was the matter she made no answer. The woman therefore called to her son, and they got her down through a hole in the floor of the loft and led her indoors. Several women were present, and they thought that she was in a fit; she was blue in the face, trembled in the hands and feet, rolled her eyes, and from time to time opened her mouth, as if gasping for breath. After about a quarter of an hour she died. In spite of the apparent improbability of the thing, there was no doubt that this was a case of suicide. There were no marks of violence, and the people in the house heard no cry. She iiad also full opportunity of drawing attention to the cause of her sufferings when she was first found standing in the loft. The case is a good illustration of the fact noticed by Casper, that the signs of asphyxia are best developed in those cases in which death is slow. COLD. Dr. Dieberg publishes in ' Casper's Vjlirschrft.' (25, p. 299) details of loo medico-legal autopsies performed at Kasan; 28 of them were cases of fatal intoxication. It is well known that in Eussia almost all ♦ This decision has since been reversed by a superior court (.Tan., 1865).