DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 151 I After further details and arguments on this subject, Chapman proceeds— " The inevitable conclusion from the foregoing exposition is that the only scientific and really effective remed^'^ for sea-sickness must be one which has the power of lessening the amount of blood in the whole of the nervous centres along the back. This can be effectually done by lowering the temperature of the spinal region by the application of ice. The results of 15 experiments in the treatment of sea-sickneas induce me to believe that, as a general rule, liable to few exceptions, the effect of this simple expedient will be the annihilation of all unpleasant symptoms. The ship's motions having induced an abnormal amount of blood in both the spinal and ganglionic centres, there is necessarily a : greater evolution of heat than is usual in health, and hence it is that cold along the whole spinal region is not only tolerable but positively pleasant. Experience will teach those who xise ice along the back that ! there seems almost as if there were a wonderful intelligence in the I nervous centres of the whole spinal region, which denotes, by quickly 1 expressive and unmistakeable feeling, the exact parts where the appli- cation of ice is most desirable, and where it should be omitted." Pull directions are given as to the proper mode of application of the ice-bags, and as to the precautions to be observed. Oppolzeb.—PatJiology and treatment of inflammation of the Sub- peritoneal Areolar Tissue. "Wien. Med. Wochenschr., 13, 1863 ; 14, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 49. Geeig.—On Insufflation as a remedy in Intussusception. Edin. Med. Journ., Oct., 1864. Greig records well-marked cases of this disorder, 4 of which were treated successfully by the above means, while i, proving fatal, was left to nature. He says the symptoms of an intussusception are unmis- takeable, and may shortly be said to be—the sudden seizure, the obsti- nate vomiting, the paroxysms of pain, the hard tumour in the abdomen, and eJtiefli/ the passage of blood per anum ; all these various symptoms may show themselves in other diseases, but when combined together, and especially when the last-mentioned symptom, the passing of blood per anum, is present, no one can have any difficulty in forming a correct diagnosis. The prognosis is always unfavorable, and although cases of spontaneous recovery are occasionally met with, as the one recorded by Dr. Ilare, this favorable termination is quito rare and exceptional. As to treatment, purgatives in the first place naturally suggest themselves ; but these are worse than useless, rarely remaining on the stomach, and if they do, only stimulating the bowel and aggravating the disease. Warm-water enemata are useful, but can seldom be administered, owing to the very peculiar irritable spasmodic condition in which the rectum usually is. In any case where this spasmodic action is not present, or only to a slight degree, Greig has no doubt warm-water enemata, or, as used in Case 3, warm water and air thrown in by a syringe, would be useful. The ease, however, with whicli air ia thrown into the spas- modically contracted rectum, when it is impossible even to introduce a teaspoonful of warm water, gives this agent a pre-eminence oyer all