REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 patient's streiigtli, and to the removal of discharge and shreds of slough as fast as formed. 11. That in cases of great exhaustion and threatened pelvic inflammation the internal use of turpentine is of great value. 12. That in cases of secondary enucleation, the surgeon need not be anxious about the removal of the tumours cn masse, but may confidently expect that if it have taken on a sloughy state in its lower part, the death and piecemeal disintegration of the whole will follow. 13. That the " recurrent fibroid" tumours slough away yet more readily after inter- ference than the true fibrous ones, although liable to return after a short interval. 14. That after a successful enucleation, complete, though gra- dual, restoration to good health may be expected. Mr. Hutchinson lays down the following rules in the operation for pri- maiy enucleation:—(i) The tumour should be well depressed into the pelvis by an assistant. (2) The first incisions should be very free, and pass deeply into the tumour, thus not only dividing its capsule, but facili- tating its bisection, should that afterwards be found requisite. This first incision should be made with a scalpel. In most cases it will be found convenient to pass the knife into the uterine cavity, and then, turning its edge on to the tumour, to cut downwards, and either forwards or backwards, according as the mass may occupy either the anterior or posterior wall. All experience goes to show that no important hemorrhage is to be feared from this incision, and if directed^ in the manner indicated, the whole substance of the tumour will intervene between the knife and the peritoneum. (3) The opened cajxsule must be separated by the fingers, or, if needful, by blunt-pointed curved scissors, the finger being used as a director. Strong and large vulsella, with midwifery forceps, should be at hand, to be used for traction if necessary. (4) The grand object is to draw down, after separation of the tumour, the uterus, inverted, with the tumour to the external parts, or as near them as possible, as this much lessens the difiiculty of the operation. To do this a large vulsellum should be carefully planted in the mass and traction carefully and steadily made in the axes of the pelvis. (5) After eversion has been completed, an examination should be made with the finger per rectum, and the remaining attachments of the tumour must be cautiously sepa- rated. The greatest care must be taken not to cut through an inverted pouch of peritoneum. (6) Tiiroughout the operation the greatest patience must be exercised, and as much gentleness as is consistent with the requisite force. (7) The uterus is then returned; if necessary, a sponge-plug should be introduced, and a full dose of opium givei. Ice, ergot, and stimulants, are to be given, as indicated by the symptoms. 3.—Dr.MatthewsDuncandcscribesthesourceoffatalhffimorrhageinaease of fibrous tumour of the uterus. The uterus was situated centrally, with the OS high in the pelvis, and the cervix hypertrophied and elongated i-J- inch. A globular fibrous tumour, 3 incfiSs in diameter, occupied tlie fundus. Venous sinuses that would admit a small crowquill permeated it in various directions. It was everywhere surrounded by a covering of the proper tissue of the uterus. In tlie layer of uterine tissue covering the inner aspect of the tumour there was developed a reticulation of enormous uterine sinuses, such as are observed in the same part in pregnancy. These were largest above and below the tumour, and contracted in