249 REPORT ON SYPHILISATION. committee reported were observed in the departments of Prof. Boeek and Dr. Hjort, during a period of three years (1856-9). Since then three years more have passed, during wliieh time the committee has con- stantly kept the patients in view, so that any recm-rences could be noted. The first question discussed is that of the immunity loith reference to fresh infection, which is bestowed by inoculation. The committee confirms the statement that the effects of inoculation repeated dm-iug a lengthened period become gradually less, and finally cease altogether. On the other hand, it is remarked, that:— 1. After such is the state in one part of the body, for example, the chest, a positive result can still be gained elsewhere, e.g. on the extre- mities. As it is practically impossible to inoculate every point of the whole surface, the existence of perfect immunity cannot be proved. 2. There may be immunity with reference to the syphilitic pus of one individual, and yet the normal reaction follows inoculation with that taken from another patient. So also may the pus of an inocula- tion-sore be entirely inert on the person himself, and yet produce normal pustules on a second person, whilst in the former a chancre is produced by the pus furnished by a third case. .3. Moreover, the immunity appears to be only temporary: it was found that persons who for a time were inoculated without effect, again became sensitive to the poison at a later period. Cases also were not rare, in which after the occurrence of immunity and apparent cure, tlie disease recurred, and was again treated by syphilisation, thus sliow- ing that the patients had again become sensitive to the virus. 4. There may be immunity and yet the syphilitic symptoms persist, thus proving that the former is not a sign of the disappearance of the syphilitic diathesis. As to the curative influence of sy^Mlisation tlie committee states that too short a period has yet elapsed for it to admit the permanency of the recoveries, and to pronounce the impossibility of further (tertiary) relapses. The value of this method must for the present be decided by comparing its results with those of other means. 1. Ninety-two patients, of every age, who were treated in Boeck's division for secondary symptoms of acquired syphilis, and who had not previously taken mercury, gave the following results with syphilisa- tion :— a. 69 cures = 75 per cent., with an average period of treatment of 150 days. h. 14 recurrences = per cent.; among these, in each of 4 patients the disease recurred twice, and in one case thrice. c. 9 cases without any certain result = 9-8 per cent. 2. Only in one patient who had been treated for " secondary" symp- toms by syphilisation, were there observed, nine months after the first recurrence, " tertiary" symptoms (for which the iodide of potassium was administered). He did not know whether he had been previously treated with mercury. 3. Eight children, of whom six suffered from hereditary syphilis, were borne by six women, who had been previously treated with syphi- lisation for secondary symptoms by Prof. Boeck, and who had been /