322 EEPORT ON SrilGERY. the external layer of the dura mater. The pericranium is destroyed over the whole extent of the necrosis; the endocranium throws out granulations which unite with the granulating edges of tlie pericranium to form a smooth cicatrix. The author observed tliis process recently in a case of hereditary syphilis ('Deutsche Kliuik,' 1862). The pecu- liarity of the periosteal gummy tumour seems to be, that, owing to the destruction of the periosteum, necrosis occurs without the production of thickenings of, or deposits ou, the surrounding bone. The same process occurs in the palate, but certainly has been rarely observed; the patient does not recognise the importance of the disease, and therefore does not apply for aid till the bone becomes exposed. The author has only once been able to watch the course of a gummy tumour on the hard palate; this was in a young man who at the same time suffered from painful swellings of the tibia3 and cranial bones. After the tumour had opened and an ulcer had formed through retrac- tion and destruction of the mucous membrane, the palate-process became exposed and in the course of six months exfoliated to a far greater extent than had been expected. As there was no thickening of the bone around the necrosis and no reproduction after the exfolia- tion of the sequestrum in all the cases observed by the author, he is inclined to believe that the most common syphilitic disease of the palate is the gummy tumour of the periosteum. In the cranial bones syphilitic caries and necrosis most frequently follow osseous enlargements owing to osteitis and osteomyelitis, or OAving to gummy tumours formed in the bone itself Syphilitic tophi, on whatever part of the skeleton they cccvu", are susceptible of entire resolution, occasionally leaving behind a cicatricial depression of the bone, and hyperostosis around. When a tophus opens outwards, a more or less deep crater-Hke ulcer is formed, at the bottom of which are rough porous, as it were weather-worn, sequestra, surrounded by much thickened and hardened bone. In 1862 Laugenbeck saw a caries of the bony palate, apparently a result of congenital syphilis, attended by rapid destruction of the bone, but without any trace of necrosis, take place in a girl of 8 years. Her father was said to have suffered from a fixed pain in his head. The giii was stated to have been liealthy and robust when born, to have suffered from some skin eruption Avheu four weeks old, and from in- flammation of the eyes in her fourtli year. In the autumn of 1861 there had been a fetid discharge from the nose ; in the winter of 1862 a perforation of the hard palate appeared, for which she was admitted into the clinic. The child was well nourished; the nasal bones were a little enlarged ; both the upper and lower incisors were considerably worn away. Somewhat behind and to the right side of the centre of the hard palate there was a small round ulcer, the middle of Mhich passed through the whole thickness of the bone. The probe struck upon friable bone; no sequestra could be foimd. The treatment employed— iodide of potassium, little inunctions, decoction of sarsaparilla, good diet—failed to arrest the disease ; the latter indeed spread so rapidly as to destroy the greater part of tlie hard palate. The author has seen two cases of constitutional syphilis, in which there was ichorous periostitis with extensive necrosis, but without any