IIHINOPLASTY. 205 less perfect bone may be formed. Yet even this method fails to form a sufficiently prominent nose, when the nasal processes of the upper jaw are absent. Oilier, in 1861, combined periosteal rhinoplasty with trans- plantation of the remains of the nasal bones and of a portion of the nasal process. The author does not approve of this proceeding; he thinks it best to leave the remains of the ossa nasi, however large they may be, where they already are. The object is not to produce a bony apex to the nose, but to support its bridge and root, and it is in this very position that any remains of the nasal bones must be found. It would not be very difficult to transplant with the frontal flap a sufficiently large portion of the external table of the os frontis, but the fear of exciting phlebitis or purulent meningitis has prevented Langenbeck from carrying out the idea. He has accordingly followed another plan—that of transplanting a relatively small frontal flap over a 'previously erected bony framework. To explain his method more clearly, it will be advisable to preface a few remarks on the pathological condition. In rare cases both ossa nasi are destroyed, and then the nasal processes of the maxilla are usually more or less defective. Earely do the latter parts preserve their perfect in- tegrity and normal projection, when the nasal bones, septum, and vomer, have been entirely lost. Generally, indeed, the nasal bones are only par- tially wanting, and their remains are depressed towards the nares. Thus th? stump becomes flattened, a change that becomes more decided in proportion to the destruction of the nasal processes. The ulcerative process by which the nose is destroyed, is mostly very chronic, requiring even ten or twenty years for its cure. Now it is known, as, indeed, the often-cited osseous depositions on the tibia in chronic ulcers of the leg show, that the irritation excited during a series of years by such sores very constantly induces the formation of fresh bone, and this process may frequently be proved in respect to the nose. Ossifications form from the edges of the apertura pyriformis, and often from the whole inner surface of the nares; they materially diminish the aperture, and sometimes fill the cavity, so that there only remains a central canal as large as a quill. A species of regeneration of the ossa nasi occurs in rare cases, an osseous bridge forming between the nasal processes, no doubt owing to gradual ossification of the granulations. The suri-ounding skin is di'agged towards the middle line by the contraction of the cicatrices. Langenbeck observed these particularities, which had been hitherto over- looked, for the first time whilst performing rhinoplasty on the living patient; he has since, however, found the same alterations in nearly forty crania existing in different collections. No new bone had been formed in some cases, in which the osseous framework of the nose had been entirely destroyed, but as the details of the morbid process had generally not been recorded, no certain explanation for these exceptions can be given. Langenbeck suspects, however, that either the integument had not been destroyed but had been retracted into the nares, or that the morbid process had rapidly destroyed the nose and then been immediately arrested by treatment. Langenbeck's operation is adapted for the ordinary cases in which there are some remains of the ossa nasi, and in which new bone has been