EEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 88 bread 3 oz.; gluten bread, 3 oz.; green vegetables, 2 oz.; sugar, i oz. In each case 3_ meala should be eaten daily, and :iieat at each meal. The amount of exercise which may bo taken daily when the corpulence is not extreme, is 3 hours at 2 miles per hour, and 2 or 3 hours at 3 miles per hour, or the latter may be supplanted by 2 hours' rough trotting on horseback. The amount of sleep should not exceed 6 or 7 hours daily, as long as the health will tolerate it, and the patient should not take a mid-day nap. Smith bases the following statements on his inquiries into the effect of exactly measured degrees of exertion. These show, that taking the lying posture as the minimum and as the unit of comparison, walking at the rate of i mile per hour is i-g; at 2 miles, 276; at 3 miles, 3-22; and at 4 miles, 5. The effect of cantering on horseback with a rough horse is 3"i6; and of trotting, 4 ; of moderate rowing, 3*33 ; and of moderate swimming, 4*33. The numbers will represent both the relative effect upon tlie body in the consumption of fatty and fat-forming matters in any given time, and the greater number of hours during which a given gentle exercise must be continued to render the effect equal to the severer exercise. For example, one hom''s walking at the rate of 4 miles per hour, would cause as large a consumption of fat as neai'ly 3 hours' walking at i mile per hour; and i hour on the treadwheel is equal to 4 hours' gentle walking. Hence we have almost as powerful an agent in exertion as in fasting; but in employing it we must proceed by slow degrees, and maintain the exertion, keeping always well without the limit of failure of the heart's action and general exhaustion. It is curious to know how much fat is consumed by different modes of exertion per hour. Thus I hour of lying still when asleep at night, consumes o'3i oz. of fat; I hour of lying awake in the day time, o'4.6 oz.; i hour of stand- ing, o"55 oz. ; I hour of walking at the rate of 2 miles per hour, it oz. ; ditto, at the rate of 3 miles per hour, v6 oz.; i hour of working at the treadwheel (if continuous) 275 oz. Hence i lb. of the fat of the body in the absence of food, would be consumed by less than 6 hoiu's' labour at the treadwheel, by 10 hours' walliing at 3 miles per hour, and by i4|- hours of walking at 2 miles per hour. If we further estimate that 10 oz. of carbon are required by the body daily with only moderate exertion, and that by the food we supply only 5 oz., there will be a consumption of 8 ot. of the fat, or other carbon-yielding material stored up in the body daily, besides the much larger amount of fluid which would be emitted at the same time. A loss of 6 lbs. in Aveight may thus talce place in a single day. EADCLirrE, C. B., M.D.—^ feio tvords concerning Bantingwn. Med. Tim. and Graz., Aug. 20. Eadcliffe says the diet in Bantingism is essentially the same as that prescribed in training for the ring or for the boat-race. The chief peculiarity in each case, is to allow a large amount of lean meat. It may be expected that Bantingism cannot be carried beyond a certain point with advantage. In training, this is certainly the case, for after a certain time, within 4 months at the longest, the person in training gets rapidly out of condition. Nor is it otherwise with Bantingism, at