CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 117 spite of the more unfavorable weather until November. Young people whose growth was not finished, and whose frame Avas weakly, and who in this state had to struggle with hard work and unfavorable circum- stances, were the most frequent subjects of the disorder; old persona and children, on the contrary, were rarely affected. The apparent im- munity of women is explained by Hermann on the ground of their social position, their greater psychical capacity of endurance, and their more sober mode of life. Under the head of treatment Hermann ascribes the chief importance to diet. Lemons, he thinks, are the best antiscorbutic, biit on account of their high price vinegar is used instead as an external application, and, internally, citric acid prepared in England in the proportion of i drachm to a pint of water. Blisters act admirably, produce no gangrene; they should be applied in strips I or 2 finger-breadths' wide when the costal cartilages are affected, in sclerosis, and in buboes, where they are to be laid along the edge of the ulcers.—V. Kempff relates the case of a person, set. 20, who resided in a place severely visited by scurvy, and was suffering with perilous paroxysms of suffocation, and had signs of effusion into the chest. By paracentesis thoracis a large quantity of blood-serum was drawn off (about 8 or 9 pints), and in 4 days the patient was discharged. Maetxk, S., M.D.—Instance of recovery from Leucocythcemia. Brit. Med. Journ., March 12. A tall, gray-haired man, set. 66, an artist by profession, came under Martyn's care in May, 1861. He had originally had most robust health, and been capable of much exertion in following field sports; had never been ill before. He stated that he had been ill, on and off, for more than a year, chiefly with inflammation of the left lung (as he calls it). Much emaciation and pallor. Is very prostrate from profuse perspirations near morning. Some dulness and congestion of the lungs behind, with rales. Heart healthy. In the left hypochondrium there is a laz'ge convex tumour, smooth, and with a notch at its anterior edge near the umbilicus, not painful. There was chronic diarrhoea. The urine was loaded with phosphates; its sp. gr. was 1030. The blood taken from the finger showed the white corpuscles in great excess, visible everywhere in the field, and of varying sizes, and .in groups. By the middle of Nov., 1863, he appeared to have recovered. From the previous emaciation and pallor he had become stout and florid, though showing age in weak memory and slow, stooping gait. The splenic dulness was unduly extensive, but not so as to attract any attention if the previous history was unknown. The blood contained more white corpuscles than would be present in typically healthy blood, but not more than are seen in ansemia and in a great number of inde- terminate conditions. Ammonia was the remedy which seemed to induce recovery.—Meebach (Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 26) reports a case of leucaimia associated witb splenic enlargement. The pro- portion of colourless corpuscles to red was 244 to 885. Besides the colourless and red corpuscles there were numerous irregular masses of gray granular substance, which appeared to have resulted from the coalescence and breaking up of a number of white corpuscles. The