158 HEPOKT on PttACl'ICAL MEDICINE. occurrence of secondaiy diseases, as ascites, icterus, &c. The parencliyma remaining between tlie cicatricial or the gununatous deposits may be normal, or fattily degenerated, or hypertropliied, or in a state of bacony transformation. The ^vhole volume of tiie liver is usually somewiiat en- larged in simple perihepatitis, but often shrinks up very much when the interstitial tissue becomes aflected ; it is also mostly enlarged when gum- matous masses are present, though shriniiing subsequently occurs from wasting of the normal parencliyma; enlargement is constant and ex- cessive only when the syphilitic liver is at the same time in a state of bacony degeneration. The disease in question possesses no charac- teristic or even commonly existing symptom ; the most careful examina- tion of the existing condition will not ensure accuracy of diagnosis. Feelings of weight, pain, and pressure in the hepatic region, which are usually complained of by patients, occur also more or less in all diseases of the liver. Icterus is not constant, and when it does occur has nothing distinctive. Ascites and splenic enlargement are also of small value in diagnosis, as they are almost constant accompaniments of granular liver. The presence of syphilitic cicatrices or knotty tumours in the liver is a material aid to diagnosis, but they may lie out of the reach of palpation, as under the ribs or on the inferior surface of the liver, or the disten- sion of the abdomen by fluid may make accurate examination of the liver impossible. The diseases with which experience shows syphilitic affections of the liver are most likely to be confounded are cirrhosis and cancer. The granular form of syphilitic liver may easily be mistaken for cancer. General cachexia exists in both case.s, and even the form of the liver itself scarcely presents any notable difference. The age of the patient can rarely guide us; for though carcinoma is most frequent in advanced age, yet it is sometimes present before the thirtieth year. On these accounts an exact history of the disorder, conjoined with the most thorough examination, is indispensable. If there is the least suspicion of syphilis the organs where the virus is prone to localize itself must be carefully inspected; we must seek for cicatrices in the pharynx, en- largement of the lymphatic glands, and of the bones, &c. It is difficult to ascertain accurately to what stage of syphilitic infection the disease of the liver appertains. Oppolzer has seen cases, like those recorded by Dittrich and Gubler, which belonged to the so-called secondary period, but the majority unquestionably belong to the tertiary. The disease now described in the liver is also a pretty frequent accompani- ment of hereditary syphilis. The prognosis is not so absolutely un- favorable as it has been rejn-esented by many authors ; we find, bow- ever, sometimes indications of hepatic syphilis in the dead body when the patients have perished from other diseases, and when the morbid condition of the liver has declared itself by no grave symptom. In general, the prognosis is more favorable so long as the liver is stiU in the stage of hypertrophy than when atrophy has commenced. Cachexia, dropsy, protracted diarrhoea, and renal degeneration of amyloid character, are of unfavorable iinjiort. As regards the treatment of syphilitic inflammation of the liver, Oppolzer does not agree with authors, as Niemeyer, who describes all measures as quite powerk - Though it is true that cicatrices in the liver cannot be removed, it may