108 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. DuMESNiL.—Liferential diagnosis of an attack of actual Mental Disorder from the Delirium accompanying or f receding Typhus. Ann. Med. Psych., July, 1863. Schmidt's .Tahrb., vol. 123, p. 85. Dumesnil thinks that the presence or absence of albumen in the urine will aflbrd valuable information in many cases, as it is very generally present in typiius, and often also in other disorders, as rheu- matism and pneumonia, attended with delirium. Gbaser.— 'Report of the Asylums at Eberhech and Eichberg during the period from 1843 to 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123," p. 88. We have only space for some notice of the causes. The chief of these is hereditary tendency; insanity occurred among the relatives of the patients in 33 per cent. In 55 instances out of 891 the disease was transmitted directly by the father, in 57 by the mother, in 151 some of the nearest blood relations were insane. The paternal influence appears to have more effect on the sons, the maternal on the daughters. Many lauiilies decay for several generations in consequence of hereditary dis- position to psychical disorders. It was seldom that j^sychical influences could be shown to have exerted a direct influence in the production of insanity. The missions of the Liguorians almost invariably give rise to mental disorders; political events seem to have no such influence. Long- continuing depressing emotions are often regarded as exciting causes, but the cause of the depression is generally of such a kind that it re- mains doubtful how much importance is to be attributed to it and how much to the mental .state. Thus, mental anxiety is often the result of poverty and hard toil. Venereal excesses and onanism were not found to have induced insanity in any instance. Drunkenness had this effect in only 22 males and i female. The influence of the puerperal condi- tion was apparent in 8'3 per cent. ; out of all the patients who became pregnant while insane only one was cured. Among febrile diseases typhus appeared esj^ecially effective in giving rise to mental derange- ment ; cachectic and ansemic conditions are frequently met with. With respect to the subjects of general paralysis, it appeared that 3o"2 per cent, of such patients had led dissipated lives, indulging to excess (in baccho et venere), but mostly many years previously ; prior syphihtic infection had occurred in 1^ 6 per cent. Undoubtedly, however, well- known steady men were also aiFected in the'same way, although they had lived in the simplest manner and out of the range of all excite- ment. Among the patients there was a considerable number of those who, during theii' disease, had committed criminal acts, and whose in- sanity W'as first discovered in the inquiry to which these gave rise. Not unfrequently patients were transferred from the house of correc- tion to the asylum, especially females, several of whom suffered from the form of disorder termed excandescentia furibunda (nymphomania). Terminations.—Of the total number of patients, 241 were cured, 102 improved, 223 died. The duration of treatment until recovery ensued varied between 2 months and 2 years; most recoveries occurred in the period between the third and uiiith mouth after admission, and it may be stated generally that the prognosis became worse in proportion to the duration of the disease. However, recoveries took place in tolerable