109 PSYCHIATEIK. number at a later period, extending up to even 12 years of detention in the asylum. WiLKS, S., M.D.—Clinical notes on Atroi^ly of the Brain. Journal of Mental Science, Oct., 1864. This paper is valuable for reference, but scarcely admits of being abstracted. Nasse, 'W—Influence of Ague on Insanity. AUg. Ztschr. f. Psych., 21, p. I, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 124, p. 77. The observations of the author extend over a period of g\ years, and relate to 76 insane persons, in whom the influence of ague, by which they were repeatedly attacked, could be accurately traced. Tertian was the most common form, succeeded by gastric symptoms lasting even during the apyretic intervals. The use of febrifuge medicines was foi'- bome so long as the attacks remained uncomplicated by any inflam- matory local complications, and the dropsical and anaemic accidents did not become marked enough to excite any anxiety. In 26 cases the influence of ague exerted a beneficial eftect, resulting in 2 cases in complete recovery, in 3 in permanent improvement, in 14 in transitory, but continuing longer than the attacks, while in 7 it was of shorter duration, and ceased with the febrile paroxysm. In 39 cases no result was obtained, and in 3 the ague appeared to be injurious. In the re- maining 6 cases improvement, which had already commenced, was not at all checked by the fever. Arranging the cases according to their psychical forms, we have a favorable efiect produced in 3 out of 4 cases of melancholia, in 3 out of 4 cases of mania, in 8 out of 25 cases of delusion (most of them attended with hallucinations), in i out of 26 eases of dementia and of secondary idiocy, in none of 4 cases of epilepsy attended with mental disorder. Of the 26 patients, 4 only bad been ill more than 5 years, 6 for a less period than 2, in the re- maining 16 the disorder had existed from 2 to 5 years. A more favorable prognosis may be given in primary forms of psychical dis- order, and in those cases where the disease has lasted but a short time, with respect to the influence of an intercurrent ague on the mental malady. The conditions on which the beneficial influence of ague in cases of insanity depends appear to be best explained by assuming that the fever acts in a reflex manner on the cerebral circulation. The ague sets up a violent and acute vascular excitement, and thereby in- duces a revolution in the general circulation, which must have an eflfect on that -within the cranium, as is evidenced by the generally great con- gestion of the head and the frequent epistaxes which occur during ague fits. The acceleration of the general circulation thence resulting must dissipate old-standing partial stagnations, induce a rapid afflux of new and qualitatively different blood, must reanimate to a certain extent diseased parts of the brain, and the frequent recurrence of these conditions must be of especial advantage in chronic congestions of torpid character. Trom this view we can understand why mild agues of short duration exert no or but little influence, and why numerous cases of old-standing derangement undergo no perceptible change. According to Nasse's observations, ague is to be regarded as an un- commonly powerful psychical agent as a cerebral remedy. The well-