164 IIEPOIIT ON X'EACTICAL MKDICINE. healtliy averagea. Tlie blood was deficient iu fibrine, blood-corpuscles, and albumen, and contained an excess of water. In the second case these changes iu the blood were still more advanced. The mean daily loss of dried albumen was found to be 310-8 grains, equal to 10 oz. of blood. The vapour bath is, he considers, preferable to diuretics and purgatives for the removal of the dropsy. KussMAUL.—Con tributions to the anatomy and pathology of the Urinary Organs. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., 4, p. 24, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 123, p. 46. (I) Tuberculosis appears iu this situation either as an accompaniment of the acute, miliary, or chronic disease; or it is the primary disease itself; or it is propagated by extension from the male sexual organs, almost always from the seminal ducts or the prostate, to the urinary bladder and urethra. When the urinary organs are affected secondarily to the male sexual, the disease extends gradually upwards; when the kidneys are first attacked it descends towards the bladder. In a case related, however, the left kidney and urinary bladder appeared to have been afiected about the same time and primarily, while the intervening ureter was not involved till a later period. Tuberculosis of the genital and urinary organs^is very rare in. females ; when the latter are affected the disease, as a rule, is primary, not secondary, to tuberculosis of the genitals. For the most part, one kidney alone is degenerated, while the other is quite or nearly free, which accounts for the rarity of uraemia in tuberculosis. The diseased kidney is generally larger, but may be of the normal size, or even smaller; much depending on whether the ureter is still pervious or not. Tuberculosis of the urinary organs is a very rare disease, occurring scarcely in i of 100 tuberculous subjects, or in I out of 1000 persons dead of various diseases. It is rare before the loth and after the 60th year. The diagnosis must be made from the concurrence of the following phenomena and circumstances:—(i) The patients suffer from progressive emaciation, generally resulting from hectic fever, the loss of blood, or drain of pus by the urine, night- sweats, gastric derangements, and ultimately diarrhoea. (2) There are symptoms of chronic inflammation and ulceration of the urinary paS' sages; those immediately resulting are pains of the most different kind in the region of the bladder and the loins, increased on pressure and in micturition; strangury, incontinence of urine; the presence of pus and blood in the urine, of the epithelium of the urinary passages, and sometimes of casts ; the discoveiy of elastic fibres, granular detritus, and flakes of dead areolar tissue in the urine, or of larger fragments 0 cheesy matter, consisting of the so-named tubercle-corpuscles, granular detritus, and elastic fibres ; more remote consequences of the inflam- mation and ulceration are diminution of the quantity of urine, the for- mation of a perceptible renal tumour. (3) Other causes which are capable of inducing similar disease of the urinary passages are to be excluded. In this respect we must note the absence of gravel, calcuh, and echinococci iu the urine, the absence of attacks of renal colic, the absence of the elements of villous cancer and of the simple villous tumour of the bladder, absence of stricture and of enlargement of