RE POUT ON jriDWIFEEY, ETC. disease of tlie ovary, but iu most cases no morbid appearance can be detected after death. The sijmptoins are twofold. Tlicre is, first, inverted peristaltic action, causing constipation and vomiting; and secondlij, under tlio inllueucc of perverted nervous action, morbid secretions are tlu'own out. Tiie indications of treatment are —(i) To exhaust for a time the excitability of the nerves proceeding from the lower part of the abdomen, so as to prevent their carrying to tlie spinal cord the morbid impressions which are reflected to the stomach. (2) To restore the peristaltic action to its natural order, to be accom- plished by the use of aperients given by the mouth cr by enemata. (3) To remove the uterine or ovarian irritation, either by sedatives applied directly to the parts, as by suppositories, or, where there is evidence of inflammation, by the application of leeches, caustic, or other local treatment; and when these means fail, and the prostration is so great as to endanger the patient's life, by the induction of premature labour. Prof. Eraun points out the immediate relief given by repo- sition of the uterus iu a case in which constant vomiting w-as associated with anteflexion. In Dr. Kidd's case there was no sickness till the end of the seventh month. The vomiting was then almost incessant, and continued unrelieved for three days. An injection of turpentine and castor oil was then given, with a suppository of morphia afterwards ; the vomiting ceased, and from this period convalescence was un- interrupted. UNUSUAL lOCAI/TTT OP PBEGKAIfCr. Schultze, B. S., "A fully matured Tubo-uterine Gestation, and Transmigration of the Ovum " (' Wurz. Med. Zeitsch.,' 1863, vol. 4). Ereslau, Prof., " Cases of Extra-uterine Gestation, with Polypi of the uterine end of the Fallopian Tube" ('Mon. f. Geb.,** 1863, suppl. heft.) Matthews, Duncan, "A Case of Uterine Ilffimatoeele complicating Extra-uterine Gestation" ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' Jan., 1864). Simpson, Prof., "A Case of Extra-uterine Pregnancy" ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' March, 1864). Day, Edwin, "Extra-uterine Foetation, followed by Intra-utcriuePreg- nancy ; induction of Premature Labour" ('Obstet. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5). Ott, Alfred, "Case of Extra-uterine Gestation" ('Prag. Med. Wochensch.,' 12, 1864). I.—A healthy priraipara, jet. 22, menstruated last in June, 1862. Labour commenced on March 30, 1863. On the following day repeated attacks of convulsions occurred, with albuminous urine, rapid collapse, and death. The CaBsarean section was performed ten minutes after death. About a pint of bloody serum escaped from tlie abdominal cavity. The uterus was anajmic and flaccid, without trace of contrac- tion. The child was dead, presenting in the first position. The uterus contracted on the removal of the child. The placenta was adherent to the posterior wall, and through an aperture in the right segment of the fundus the right foot of the cliild protruded. The riglit ovary lay