396 REPOUT ON MIDWIFKRYj ETC. of the heart; secondly, two sounds synchronous with and representing the double sound of the organ. These sounds are also due to transmission from the aorta through the solid fibroid body. If the tumour be low down, they could be heard either by passing a common stethoscope per vagi- nam, and making it rest upon the tumour, or, better still, by the vagino- scope, an instrument which the author lias devised, which consists of a long stethoscope, to the distal end of which is attached a wooden speculum. Menorrhagia is common in fibroids, especially if these are intra- uterine. Of 48 cases, in 34 there was hfcmorrhage, in 14 none. Tlie larger number of the former were intra-uterine, of the latter extra-uterine. The diagnosis from pregnancy has been before referred to.* In the diagnosis from ovarian disease the following points are noted: —I. Some uterine fibroids grow from one side. 2. Fluctuation may be absent in ovarian tumours and present in fibroids, or in parts of them, under four conditions—(«) when soft, flabby, and fleshy; (b) when unusually vascular; (c) when cedema is present; (d) when cysts are present. Here the difliculty would be sometimes cleared up by the previous history, or by the induration of other parts of the growth, or by an exploratory puncture. The catamenia might also aff'ord help. From an analysis of 150 cases, in 42 per cent, this was found regular, in 18 per cent, it was arrested, while in 9 per cent, it was profuse. Me- norrhagia is general in fibroids, quite exceptional in ovarian disease. Lastly, in solid fibrous or fibro-cystic tumours of the ovary the diagnosis was most difiicult, often impossible. In the treatment the author has found the oxide of silver in large doses, with or without Indian hemp, sulphuric and gallic acids, and turpentine, the most effective remedies for restraining the hfemorrhage. For this, however, local measures are the best—(i) by injection of iodine or of the sesquichloride of iron after dilatation by sponge-tents ; (2) by incision of the OS uteri; (3) by cutting directly upon the uterine tumour. Of the so-called curative remedies, the author thinks the bichloride of mercury useful in hypertrophy or retarded involution of the uterus, especially if combined with local depletion. Chloride of calcium and bromine apjiear less efl^ective in parietal tumours than in mere chronic enlargement. Elec- tricity of high intensity is favorably mentioned. surgical treatment of these tumours may be either enucleation of the tumour or removal by gastrotomy. Enucleation was either primary, when the tumour was wholly removed at one time; or secondary (also called enucleation " by inducing gaiigrene"), where part only was removed at the time, and the remainder came away b}' sloughing. Of 18 cases of primary enucleation instanced by Mr. Hutchinson, 12 recovered.! Of enucleation by induction of gangrene Mr. Hutchin- son mentioned 11; cases and 6 deaths; in 10 cases collected by the author 4 died, and in one the result was not stated. Mr. Hutchinson concluded that, if all cases were known, the results of primary and secondary enucleation would be the same; the author believed that, * inde " Pregnancy," p. .^62. t 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1857, vol. 2.