283 FORCIBLE EXTENSION OF JOINTS. of the plaster bandage for foiirteen to twenty-one days; all tbe cases were improved, some materially; in one, Lowever, fresh inflammation was excited, so that the patient remained eight months in hospital. In six cases, tlie limb was straightened and immobilised whilst the inflammatory process was yet active; in four of these the result was very good ; in tlie fifth, the bandage had to be removed owing to pain, the lad left the hospital, and ultimately died from disease of the other hip ; in the sixth, death ensued from pytemia. Straightening the limb and immo- bilising it in this position, is undoubtedly the best treatment of the early stages of hip disease ; at a later period when the bones are carious and the joint suppurating, it becomes dangerous, being liable to aug- ment the inflammation already existing. Excision should be used only in exceptional cases, as a means of saving life; the author considers that a limb, even when it cannot be extended beyond 40° (compelling the patient to walk with great curvature of the spine, and a tolerably high sole), is more useful than after resection. In respect to disease of the knee, the leg is generally flexed on the thigh, rotated outwards, and subluxated backwards. The flexed posi- tion appears to be in some cases the mechanical result of efli'usiou of fluid into the joint, in others, to depend on swelling of the synovial membrane. Flexion is, however, not the only change in the position of this joint; in at least five sixths of all cases it is accompanied by rota- tion of the leg outwards. It is obvious that rotation can only occur where the limb is flexed to a considerable degree; according to Eobert's researches, it cannot occur till the leg is flexed on the thigh at an angle of 45°. As moreover it is not present in all patients, indeed not in many when the limb is strongly flexed, it is evident that it does not form an essential part of the process. There has been much dispute about its cause, some attributing it to a particularly powerful traction of the biceps muscle, others to the posterior crucial ligament. The author has, however, never found any particular tension of this ligament in amputated limbs, where rotation was very marked ; indeed when the ligament is not destroyed, after dividing the whole of the parts placed on the posterior side, and opening the capsule from behind, the leg can be again rotated inwards, without any interference with this motion by tlie crucial ligaments, a proceeding that is not possible before the section of the soft parts. Hence the author is quite of the opinion of Dittel, developed in his essay on the position of the leg in inflammation of the knee joint ('Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien,' 1859, P- 385), and thinks that rotation outwards is caused by the weight of the extremity, more especially by that of the foot, and that it is after- wards rendered permanent by contraction of the connective tissue. Dittel also appears to be perfectly right in attributing the angular position of the leg after the manner of genu varum, which occasionally occurs, to excessive wearing away of the bones on the inner side of the joint. If the patient, in a case of advanced disease, when both the cartilage and bone are undergoing destruction, rests the leg on its outer side, the articular extremities will press against one another with greater force on the inner than on the outer side, and as a necessary conseijnence, the bone will be wors {iwajr to a greater degree where