SCAELATINA AFTER OPERATIONS. 301 deviations from the typical course of scarlatina were, that in some of the cases the eruption came out over the whole surface at once, and on the limbs more fully than on the face and chest: in some, there was no sore- throat ; in others, no desquamation. " The cases are not numerous enough to determine the import of these variable deviations from the type of scarlatina; but that in which all of them, whether complete or incomplete in other characters, agreed, namely, the very early period after the operation at which the rash appeared, deserves particular notice. It adds to the evidence, that the appearance of scarlatina is in some way connected with the early consequences of operations. If it were not so, and if patients after operations had only the same liability as others, there would be no reason why the eruption should appear early, rather than late, after the operation ; but, so far as I have seen, it always appears early—always within the first week. " Two explanations may be offered of this fact. Either the condition induced in a patient by a surgical operation is one that gives a peculiar liability to the reception of an epidemic or contagious morbid poison, and any one oi' these, being imbibed immediately after the operation, produces its specific effect in much less than the usual period of incubation ; or else those who suffer with scarlatina within a few days after operations had previously imbibed the poison, but would not have manifested its effects so soon, if at all, unless their health had been exhausted or disturbed. The second of these explanations appears rather the more probable ; for it is in accordance with what has been observed when many persons have been exposed to the contagion of fever, and some have been afterwards ex- hausted by fatigue or otherwise. These have had fever; while those who rested after exposure have escaped it. " But, whatever explanation may be given, the fact of peculiar liability to scarlatina after operations seems certain, and may be important in re- lation both to the pathology of the disease and to the risks of surgery. In one of the cases which I have seen, it was fatal; in another, it was followed by fatal pyaemia; and I think it not improbable that, in some cases, deaths occurring with obscure symptoms, within two or three days after operations, have been due to the scarlet-feyer poison hindered, in some way, from its usual progress." J. Harrinson records a case of gunshot wound of the foot, followed by an erythematous rash over the whole body ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 373). —The accident occurred on July 2nd; on the evening of the 8th, there was great prostration ; the patient wandered at times, but was quite con- scious when roused ; the pulse was rapid and feeble ; the abdomen tense and tympanitic ; he had hiccough ; a dry and brown tongue; occasional vomiting and purging of dark matter ; scanty and high-coloured urine. The wound was sloughy and very offensive. There was no swelling of the foot, nor evidence of any inflammation of the absorbents or veins ; but the whole surface of the body presented a red appearance, as if covered with the rash of scarlet fever. There was no sore-throat; nor was there any scarlet fever in the neighbourhood. On the 12th violent diarrhoea ensued, and was followed by death ; the skin retained its red appearance, though it assumed a darker hue, to the very last. Dr.Wilks remarks (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 428),—" The numerous