411 OVARIOTOMY. On the other hand, it is not contra-indicated—(i) by the patient's youth or age, nor by the fact of her having previously undergone several tappings, nor by the irregularity or suppression of tlie menses, since complete suppression does not prove both ovaries to be implicated. (2) It is justifiable, and to be recommended in all cases of ovarian tumour, whatever its structure, and whether its existence be of long or of short duration, and whether tapping has or has not been frequently resorted to, where the disease is steadily and progressively increasing, and when the patient's health is beginning to suffer from this increase, but, as far as can be ascertained, from no other cause independent of the local mischief. The state of the patient's own miad and wishes should have much weight in considering the operation. Dread of the issue is a bad state of mind in which to undergo such an operation; indifference, perhaps, even worse. Moral considerations must be weighed as carefully as those furnished by the character of the tumour or the history of its gi-owth. 2.—In describing the details of the operation, Mr.Hutchiuson remarks on the following occasional dilEculties and moot points of treatment:— (i) The first incision should be of medium extent—about 4 inches—and enlarged if needful. (2) Adhesions.—It is very important to detach adhe- sions as much as possible before the fluid is evacuated. If the adhesions are extensive, it is usually necessary to introduce the whole hand, and, carrying it between the peritoneum and cyst by a lateral movement, to break through all connecting bands. Not unfrequently, however, tlie more important adhesions are found behind the cyst, uniting it to the viscera or to the lumbar or pelvic peritoneum. These cannot, as a rule, be reached until the cyst has been partially emptied, and in separating them great care must be taken not to drag too forcibly on the peritoneum. Not only may injury be done by tearing up the serous membrane from its attachments, but lacerations of viscera or of large vessels may occur. The movement employed should be as much by a lateral sweep, and as little by direct traction, as possible. The peri- toneum should be supported by the other hand, or by the other finger of the same hand. It is better under all circumstances to tear rather than cut; but when important viscera are involved, it may become necessary to dissect carefully. Adhesions to the omentum are very frequent, but are for the most part easily dealt with. If very vascular, the omentum may be tied and the end brought out into tlie wound. (3) A special difficulty caused hy adhesions in front.—In cases iu which the adhesions to the parietal peritoneum at the place of incision are intimate great difficulty may occur in distinguishing the cyst. The operator may mistake the cellular interspace between the transversalis fascia and the parietal peritoneum for that between the cyst and the latter, and thus break down the connecting tissue. This error, hitherto little mentioned, has repeatedly occurred, and, if not quickly discovered, may lead to great injury; or another error may be made in avoiding this, and the surgeon may incise the visceral peritoneum of the cyst, and proceed to separate it. There is nothing to show the operator his mistake; and to avoid all risk of these two errors, the autlior advises that the wound shall be enlarged upwards, until the peritoneal cavity