ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 445 December, 1863. Symptoms api^ear to have set in in about an hour, and presented the usual characters. Between the paroxysms, which occurred at intervals of about half an hour, the lower extremities lay extended and powerless. He died at 8.1 p.m. The application of cold to the head gave him comfort, and did not excite spasm, as did the sliffhtest touch or movement of the limbs. The post-mortem examination was made 41 hours after death. The rigor mortis was present, but was in no respect different from that observed in corpses of persons who have died from other causes. The lungs contained but little blood, but were cedematous. Casper noticed a peculiar dirty violet colour of the muscles of the pharynx and oeso- phagus, which he thinks worth looking for in future cases of a similar kind. The veins on the posterior surface of the spinal cord were rather full of blood, but he ascribes this appearance merely to hypostatic engorgement. The membi'anes of the brain were markedly injected with blood ; and Casper remarks that this case certainly supports the statements that this appearance is a constant one of poisoning by strychnia. It is, however, so frequently found where death arises from other causes that it possesses scarcely any value. The right side of the heart was quite empty and contracted, and the left side contained scarcely half a table-spoonful of blood. The great vessels were also almost empty. The contents of the stomach were extracted with amylic alcohol, according to the process of v. Uslar and Erdmann. After repeated purifications a residue of 3"i grains' weight was obtained. This con- tained microscopic crystals, resembling those of strychnia, and gave the characteristic coloration with sulphuric acid and bichromate of potass. Dr. Sonnenschein, who made the analysis, finds that the alkaloid may be obtained in a pure state more quickly by another process, which is described in this paper. In this way he extracted, in a crystalline form, 17 grain of strychnia from a mixture of decomposing milk and meat, to which 2 grains had been added. Casper is of opinion that neither the time at which symptoms com- mence in cases of poisoning by this substance nor the period at which death occurs can be very narrowly defined in the present state of our knowledge. He finds but little difficulty in distinguishing the symp- toms from those of idiopathic tetanus. " If a man, without any other exciting cause, is attacked soon after swallowing a medicine or other substance likely to contain the poison with tetanic spasms, resemblino- in their course those caused by strychnia, there is a probability, ap- proaching to certainty, that the poison is the cause of these symptoms " If the presence of strychnia in the interior of the body can be shown by chemical tests all doubt is removed, but the failure to discover the poison can never afford a proof to the contrary. Dr. Lion, sen. ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, pp. 38/5 et seg.), gives a resume of what is known as to poisoning by strychnia. He remarks that there is, perhaps, no one of the alkaloids which can be detected with so much certainty, even under unfavorable circumstances, and he fully agrees with those English authorities who have maintained that where this poison cannot be discovered it was not the cause of death.