427 INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. tion of mirrors of arsenic the addition of an organic liquid, such as sugared water, exerts no influence in causing their appearance. Dr. Gamgee also finds that wlien nitric acid thus interferes with Marsh's process it is not owing to the formation of a solid hydride of arsenic. He remarks that M. Blondlot has given no proof that the browu flocculi (which, in fact, are constantly formed when zinc is dis- solved in sulphuric acid) consist of such a compound. He applied heat to a portion of the tube, which transmitted the gas, generated by the action of a mixture of sulphuric and nitric acids on zinc, with i-^oooth grain of arsenic. He then found that, though no mirror was produced, a ring of crystals of arsenious acid was deposited in the tube just beyond the part heated. This Dr. Gamgee explains by supposing that nitrous oxide gas is evolved by the action of the dilute nitric acid on the zinc, and that this gas oxidizes the arseniuretted hydrogen as it traverses the heated portion of the tube. The nitric acid, therefore, does not act by preventing the formation of arseniuretted hydrogen gas, but by interfering with its decomposition by heat into hydrogen and metallic arsenic. MM. Bussy and Buignet (' Journ. de Pharm. et de Chim.,' Sept., 1863, p. 177; 'Hep. f. Phar.,' 13, p. 12) have made some investigations as to the best method of purifying sulphuric acid from arsenic. They find that in a large majority of cases this impurity is present, not in the form of arsenious acid, as is generally supposed, but as arsenic acid. This is not, however, absolutely a new discovery, for the experiments of Dupasquier led him to the same conclusion. It is proved by the fact that on distilling impure sulphuric acid with the necessary precau- tions the distillate is usually perfectly fi'ee from arsenic, wliich all remains in the retort. By still further concentrating this residue the characteristic red precipitate, with the ammonio-nitrate of silver, may also be obtained from it, indicating the presence of arsenic acid. In a few specimens of commercial sulphuric acid the arsenic was, however, found in the form of arsenious acid, and in this case small quantities of the arsenic pass over when the sulphuric acid is distilled. It is found that sulphuric acid, which contains arsenic in the form of the lower oxide, is always perfectly free from nitrous acid. This, indeed, might be expected from the fact that during the manufacture of the sulphuric acid the formation of arsenious or arsenic acid would depend on the predominance of the sulphurous acid or the nitric acid in the chambei". Thus, the presence or absence of nitrous acid, which is readily de- tected by its reaction with narcotine or with siilphate of iron, becomes an indication whether the arsenic is present in the form of the higher or the lower oxide. The chief importance of these results refers to their application in the purification of the commercial acid. Sulphuric acid which contains nitrous acid may with certainty be rendered free from arsenic by dis- tillation, a small quantity of sulphate of ammonia being added to decompose the nitrous compound. If the sulphuric acid be free from nitrous acid the addition of a little nitric acid is all that is required to convert the ar.<!enious acid product into the higher oxide, and distilla- tion will then gire a pure sulphuric acid,