REPOllT ON SUaOEllY. 294 " The presence of a slight, or oven a moderate amount of shock, does not contraindicate immediate amputation; but if the shock be exces- sive, or even severe, then it is better to delay the opei-ation until reaction has been fully established. In tlie mean time, reaction should be pro- moted by the application of dry heat externally, and by the administra- tion of such stimulants internally as are adapted to the degree of the shock, employing the most powerful of the diffusible stimulants, such as brandy and carbonate of ammonia, freely in the desperate cases, and the same stimulants, in smaller quantity, or perhaps only wine, or even warm tea or coffee, in cases of a less severe character. As soon as the reaction has been fully established, amputation should be performed without further delay, because the injured part will speedily become inflamed, and such a condition of the limb may quickly supervene as to preclude a successful operation." C. O. Weber on the relative value of the different methods of 'perform- ing amputation near the anJcle-joint ('Arch, fllr klin. Chir.,' iv, 313).— Of 43 amputations of the leg at the point of election, lo were for recent injuries; lo for tumours, &c.; and 23 for caries; 30 recovered, 13 died—viz., of ten amputations for injuries there were 4 primary 2 recovered, 2 died. 6 secondary i „ S » Of 10 amputations for tumours, &c. . . . 9 „ i „ Of 23 „ caries .... 18 „ 5 „ or I death to 2*30 recoveries, equalling a mortality of 30-2 per cent. Small as is the number of cases, yet the difference between amputations for injury and for chronic disease is very marked. Tor the former the cases of death amount to 70 per cent.; i'or the latter, to only 18 per cent. The greater danger of secondary amputations also appears, for died out of the 6 operations, whilst 2 of the 4 primary cases were saved. Of these 7 deaths, 5 were from pyaemia, and 2 from tetanus. In the 10 amputations for tumours, i death occurred from pyaemia; and in 3 cases, recurrences followed after the healing of the wound, and proved fatal. In the cases of caries, 3 died from pyaemia,' i from tuberculosis, i from organic disease of the heart (fatty degeneration of the heart and liver, amyloid spleen). The average period required for the healing of the wound was 52 days, the minimum 30, and the maximum 90. Amputation in the lower third of the leg, as near, indeed, as possible to the malleoli (Lenoir's amputation), is yet rejected by many sin-geons. The author gives an account of the discussion at the Paris Surgical Society in 1856, and considers at length the various advantages and objections. He urges the importance of well covering the stump; for, if any part has to heal by granulations, it will again readily ulcerate. Much in favour of this process is the fact that the mortabty does not exceed 1&6 per cent., or, in other words, that there are twice as many recoveries after it as after amputation at the point of election. As to Syme's and Pirogoff's operations, the author finds that the period required for healing was, in 11 cases of Syme's amputation, on Wl average, 52 days; under i month, 2; minimum, 25 days. In 2b