358 UEl'ORT ON SriDAVIFERYj ETC. being to deteriniiie the period of iitero-gestation in the two first-named animals. The following are the results: 1. In 9 experimeutH .32 foetuses were found all dead. The modes of death of the mothers were, in 6 asphyxia, in i asphyxia and hanior- rhage, in i chloroform-narcosis, in i paralysis of the nervous centres. The 32 foetuses were removed from the uterus, in one case 2 minutes after the death of the mother, in 2 eases 4 minutes, in i case 5 minutes in a cases 6 minutes, in the remaining 3 cases more than 10 minutes after the death of the mother. 2. Two foetuses were dead, besides one " apparently dead" in one ease. The mother ^yas poisoned by cyanide of potassium. The foetuses were extracted from the mother in the first minute after death. 3. All the fcBtuses, in number 11, were "apparently dead" in 4 experiments. The modes of death of the mother's were, i by asphyxia, I by hsemorrhage, and 2 by chloroform. The ri foetuses were removed from the mother, i litter in the first minute after death, i in 2 minutes, I in 4i minutes, and i in 5 minutes. 4. Three foetuses were apparently dead, together with 6 living, in 3 experiments. The mothers died in 2 cases by hsemori'hage, in i by paralysis of the nerve-centres and hsemorrhage. In these 3 cases the "apparently dead" foetuses were kept alive, in i case 3 minutes, in i case 54- minutes, in i case 8 minutes after the mother's death. In addition to these the living foetuses were kept alive in i case during tbe first minute after the death of the mother, in i case for 2 minutes, in I case for 2f minutes after the mother's death. 5. All the foetuses were alive, 9 in numbei', in 3 experiments. The mothers died, i from asphyxia, 1 from asphyxia and hsemorrhage, i from lifemorrhage. In these 3 experiments, the foetuses Were kept alive in i case during the first minute, in i case during 2 minutes, and in I case about 5 minutes. The following are the conclusions drawn: (1) The life of the foetus always extends beyond the death of the mother, with a certain independence. (2) The life of the foetus in the dead mother is very soon in great danger, manifesting itself in violent convulsive movements, which from their character may be considered as premature respiratory movements, arising from the want of oxygen and the necessity for breathing. (3) Apparent death, into which the foetus commonly passes at the end of the first minute after the death of the mother, is maintained in the foetus enclosed in the uterus in the most favorable case up to 8 minutes ; generally death occurs much earlier. (4) Tlie foetuses removed "apparently dead" from the body of the dead mother are nearer to death than to life, for they do not recover of themselves, but soon jjerish, almost without exception. (5) Only rarely, and in the most favorable case, Avill the foetus be removed alive within 5 minutes after the mother's death. Even in tlie third minute the probability of extracting a living foetus is very plight. (6) If ^vo operate later than 5 minutes we cannot obtain a living