323 SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HAUD PALATE. hyperostosis in the remaining bones. In both cases there had been ulcerations of the pharyngeal mucous membrane and syphilitic exan- themata, when suddenly with the symptoms of a very violent coryza, lachrymatioD, and a watery discharge from the nose, there appeared tearing pains in the palate" and middle piece of the alveolar process of the upper jaw, accompanied by tolerably severe fever. The discharge from the nose and from under the separating edges of the gum became sanious and extremely fetid, the incisors became loose, and ultimately, without any perforation of the involucrum palati, the whole of the alveolar process and palate that corresponds to the intermaxillary bones, together with a part of the vomer, exfoliated. The sequestrum showed no change in form or structure; nor could any enlargement of, or deposits on, the remaining bones be perceived. The bone was not regenerated by the separated periosteum. "VVe cannot determine with certainty how a perforation of some standing has been produced—whether from a gummy tumour of the periosteum or of the bone, from ichorous periostitis, or finally by ulceration spreading from the mucous membrane to the bone. Syphi- litic perforations of the palate appear generally to dilFer from those of the skull in this respect, that hyperostosis and formations of new bone are usually present in the latter, but absent in the former. Scrofulous disease, Avhich resembles the gummy process in many respects, may cause perforation of the palate. In the examples ob- served by Langenbeck the disease of the bone was secondary to that of the nasal mucous membrane or of the involucrum palati; he has never seen primary disease of the bone, i. e. unpreceded by some affection of one or other of the mucous surfaces. All the cases pre- sented the symptoms of the so-called lupus, and were accompanied by destructions of the skin on the face and of the membranous, cartila- ginous, and osseous portions of the nose. The dead pieces of the palate were exfoliated in the form of little, grayish-brown-black, worm-eaten, fragile sequestra. The process, by which the bone is softened and destroyed, seems to depend on a peculiar proliferation of the perios- teum, which degenerates into grayish-red, semitransparent, soft villi; this change seems to the author extremely similar to that found in chronic scrofulous osteomyelitis of the phalanges and metacarpus (the spina ventosa of some authors), with the difference that in the latter the connective tissue of the medulla is the part degenerated. In lupus of the nose the destructive process very often begins in the skin, and gradually spreads deeper, even to the bones. Tubercles are formed in the integument; they inflame and pass into pustules. The secretion of several confluent pustules dries into a blackish-brown or yellow scab, under which the destructive process penetrates to the deeper layers. If the scab is removed, the part under it is found to be of a reddish-gray colour, bleeding easily, villous, and so soft that the tissue can be brushed from the deeper layers without difficulty. The same kind of proliferation accompanied by softening and rapid disinte- gration seems to occur in the perichondrium and cartilages of the alte nasi and septum, as well as in the nasal bones. On removing the scabs from the diseased bone, we find the fragile, soft, carious surface covered