143 UESPIUATOUY SYSTEM. various forms aud fats act beneficially on the sldu, by lessening its tendency to be soft and active. In all cases of early phthisis advancing towards health, in whom there is improved appetite and assimilation and increased weight of body, the skin assumes a condition of com- parative roughness and dryness. Beigel, B-.— On Spirometri/. Lancet, Jan. 30, Feb. 13. Beigel's formula rests upon measuring the thorax, in order to calcu- late its volume (V) from it. The upper, middle, and lower circum- ference of the chest are added, and divided by 3. This quotient {x) is raised to the square, and the result is multiplied by the front length of the chest {h). This result is divided by 36. The received quotient is taken in halves, and thus we obtain the amount of respiration V, =~^* If the calculated amount of respiration exceeds 3000 c.c, it is necessary, after the formula has been calculated as before, that h be subtracted from H (the side length). The remainder is then to be divided in halves, and the result, already divided by 2, divided by the dividing quotient, and this quotient is to be subtracted from the quantity of respiration. HoEACE DoBELi/, M.D.—On the Assimilation of Fat in Consumption. Lancet, Sept. 10. In 71 cases, where there were unequivocal signs of tubercle in the lungs, 16 liked fat and 46 liked sugar, while 5^ disliked fat and 2^ disliked sugar. Of those who liked fat only, 19 per cent, were in the third stage of the disease; whereas of those who disliked fat 38 per cent, were in the third stage, while of those who liked sugar 37 per cent, were in the third stage. Mr. Hutchinson analysed 56 cases of consumption in different stages, and found that abotit 71 per cent, disliked fat and about 37 per cent, disliked sugar. If Mr. Hutchinson's cases and Dobell's are added together, we have 127 cases in which about 74 per cent, disliked fat and about 36 per cent, disliked sugar. With a view of testing by direct experiment whether this dislike for fat is due to a defect in the eraulsitying properties of the pancreatic secretion, Dobell treated a series of cases of consumption with pan- creatic juice, artificially introduced into the digestive apparatus. An emulsion of beef fat was prepared with the pancreatic juice of the pig, of the consistence of thick Devonshii'e cream. This, in the proportion of half an ounce in a breakfast-cupful of milk, was not at all an unpleasant drink. The treatment was continued 8 weeks. The whole 33_ cases—7 being in the first stage, 14 in the second, and 12 in the third—were treated by this new remedy, with the following results :— Measured by general symptoms—improved, 24 ; stationary, 2 ; worse, 4; not noted, 3. Measured by physical signs—iinproA'ed, 13; sta- tionary, 10 ; worse, 5 ; not noted, jj. Emulsion agreed, 30 ; disagreed, 3. Cod-liver oil agreed in 13, disagreed in 11, not tried in 9. Average quantity of emulsion taken by each patient, about i oz. avoirdupois in I pint of milk each day for 8 weeks. The 33 patients consumed about T05 lbs. of emulsion, which retiuired 315 pancreases to emulsify the fat.