51 GENERAL SYSTEM. the microscope to be fatty. The cerebral symptoms were very various. A most violent case resembling acute mania began on the 6th day and proved fatal on the loth. The urine was albuminous on admission, and on the day before his death it contained blood and bloody tube-casts. It is worthy of remark, and illustrative of the fact 'that there is often a family resemblance in cases which have originated from one contagious focus, that two brothers were affected with a remarkable form of busy delirium. The general course of the disorder is that of a rise, acme, and decline, but frequently also the rise is not equable, the acme is out of proportion severe in its phenomena, compared with each previous day. There would seem to be a deadly close between the strength of the disease and the strength of the patient's system. The circulation is most commonly affected. There is intense livor over every part of the body ; the countenance looks purple and puffed ; the eruption becomes ecchymosed in large blotches. The mind may be quite clear, and there may be a sense of depression and a fear of coming harm; or there may be delirium restless and violent, or more commonly low and muttering. The pulse is thready, almost imperceptible, and very rapid, 120-170. There may be involuntary evacuations. The paroxysm may be marked by no other lesion than that of the circulation, but it may also be marked, especially if there is any preceding pulmonary complication, by sudden engorgement of the lungs with copious effusion into the lesser bronchi. To pregnant females this paroxysm before crisis would seem to be the most dangerous time. Eight patients in this condition were admitted and % of these aborted, both at this critical period, one with a fatal issue. The fatal case was in the 5th, the other in the 3rd month. The day of crisis was noted in 142 cases, and from the iith to the i6th were the favorite days, the 14th being the most usual. Crisis appeared to occur earlier in the young than in the aged. Of the various complications arising in the course of the disease, the most formidable and fatal was convulsions. There were 5 cases, of which 3 died. In 3 of these cases convulsions were the result of preceding acute or chronic disease of kidneys. In a case_^ of maniacal delirium ending fatally there was acute nephritis; and whenever the urine was observed in any well-marked case, especially with livor and petechise, albumen was to some extent present, but this probably arose rather from the state of the blood than from actual renal disease, which causes the more serious symptoms. Sequelae were serious when they occurred, but they were not frequent. The majority of them might be classified as different manifestations of a tendency to low suppurative inflammation, often in or about glandular structures. When the parotid and submaxillary glands are attacked, the swelhng may in a few hours spread up the cheek, and assume more of a pure erysipelatous appearance with an accompanying blush, sometimes invading the entire scalp, and ending in the formation of abscess and recovery, or death through exhaustion or with symptoms of meningitis. Other sequelffi were ecthyma, laryngitis, croup, sloughing of the pudenda, and gangrene of the toes. The wards in which the patients were lodged were airy, roomy, and well lighted. The treatment consisted in an emetic at first, followed by a dose of calomel and rhubarb. No tympanitis or prostration was in any case observed to result from either; but