ttEPOUT ON SUHGETIY. 346 the rigor recurred during the following daye, and the fever was accom- panied by extreme depression, violent sacral pains, and delirium. This Avas the state in which Dr. Stilling found the patient at his first visit. On the loth April, 1856, the stricture was divided from before back- wards. No particular symptoms followed ; the bougie or catheter was regularly introduced for some months. The patient then discontinued treatment. Dr. Stilling adds, that up to Sept., 1863, he had remained perfectly well. The author thinks the laceration of the urethra was the result of the seminal emission. He asserts that the force with which the semen is pressed against the stricture is decidedly much greater than that exerted in passing urine. The perineal swelling was probably caused by extravasated semen, the urine not escaping into the cavity till after- wards. Dr. Stilling thinks that the latter might, perhaps, have been avoided, had it been possible to introduce a catheter, immediately after the seminal emission, into the bladder, and to retain it there for a few days, till the wound had become coated with lymph. M. S. Collis, 2)racfical observations on tlie treatment of organic stric- ture of the urethra, hy means of sea-iueed bougies* (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. xxxvii, p. 373).—" Freely growing along our shore, the Laminaria cligitata, commonly known as the sea-girdles or tangle, supplies admirable material, in its tough perennial stem, for bougies of a superior description. The great tenacity and strength of this sea-plant must be familiar to all who have rambled along the shore ; when dried, it becomes hard and capable of reduction into bougies of great strength and of very considerable finish. They will re- ceive and retain any curve that may be given to them; and by dipping them into warm water and rubbing them between the iingers, their sur- face will become sufficiently soft and smooth for introduction into the urethra. Oil may be used with them as with other bougies, but in time its action upon their tenacity would be deleterious. When immersed in water they swell rapidly—in a few hours more than doubling their diameter." Dr. Sloan states that a tangle-tent freely exposed to moisture doubles its diameter in 4 hours, and in 48 hours increases to i\ times. " Their dilating power is, therefore, great; it is also rapid. One case of very resisting organic stricture, in which I lately used them, may serve as an example:—in less than a Aveek I\ 0. 9 could be passed with ease, although at first the stricture was with great difficulty traversed by No. 2. Only three times was an instrument introduced, and the entire number of hours that they were left in amounted to less than 3. Considering that the case Avas one of traumatic stricture, this result is singularly satisfactory. The amount of pain produced by these bougies is trifling, so long as" they are left in contact with the mucous surface of the urethra, and not moved from the situation in which they have been first placed ; but if moved backwards and forwards, after a lapse of 20 minutes or upwards, when they have begun to swell, much pain will be produced ; this interference 'is unnecessary, and I only allude to it in order to caution surgeons against it. Once placed in the * Tlie.-je bougies arc manufuctured by Krohne of London.