219 ItOSPITAL GA5IG11ENE. but in no instance, during the first epidemic, did it involve any structure deeper than the deep fascia of the part affected. In most cases the duration of the disease did not exceed ten days or a fortnight, at the end of which time the wound would again assume a healthy character, the exposed surface granulating very rapidly, while the appetite and general health of the patient would return. It will be noticed at once that the disease described has all the characteristics of ordinary phlegmonous ery- sipelas, and, in fact, with the exception of a few points to be noticed presently, it differed from that disease but little. Some of these points of difference were these:—First, the sloughing advanced more rapidly than is usual in phlegmonous erysipelas, and involved a large surface. Second, the contagious properties of the disease are much increased; so much so was this the case, that at one time fully one half the patients in the pavilion were affected by this sloughy condition. The third point of distinction between this and ordinary phlegmonous erysipelas was shown in the fact, that in several instances patients lying next to one affected by the form of gangrene already described, would take from him not this, but another form of the disease, which will be spoken of when describing the chai'acteristics of the second epidemic. "After this first epidemic.had run its course, or had been checked, the wounds, both in the pavilion and tents, assumed a healthy appearance, and so continued for about two or three weeks, when the second epidemic commenced. In this the mode of attack was very different from that which has been described. The chill, the fever, the sudden prostration, in fact nearly all the symptoms of constitutional distui-bance which usually mark the inception of an acute disease, were absent. The first symptoms of gangrene were purely local, and would present themselves somewhat in this way. The wound, which yesterday presented a per- fectly healthy appearance, would to-day show in the midst of its healthy florid granulations, a small spot, perhaps a mere point, of a grayish hue. Prom this point the sloughing would commence, the spot enlarging and appearing, as it were, to eat its way into the wound, the newly formed tissue melting away as the disease advanced, until the wound had assumed its former proportions. The sloughing, however, would not stop here, but would invade the old and healthy tissues, involving not only the skin and subcutaneous and deep fascias, but all the tissues, including the bone itself In fact, this second epidemic was more formidable than the first, whether it attacked a patient, who had previously suffered from slough- ing, or one who had before remained unaffected. No deaths, however, occurred from this cause among the patients under my care, but in all cases the sloughing finally ceased, and, as the dead tissue was removed, healthy granulations showed themselves underneath, and the healinw process went on as before. It was certainly interesting to witness the readiness with which the patients recovered from the repeated attacks, and the rapidity with which the wound closed up, when once the granu- lations began to form." " In drawing a distinction between these two forms of gangrene, it is not intended to give the idea that they are different diseases, but simply to note the fact of the appearance of gangrene at difl'erent times in different forms. In the first form the erysipelas appeared as the most