REPOUT ox PJIACTICAI. SIEDICINE. 153 otliers, and astonishes all who have seen it used. Tiie remedy is ahvays at baud, and its application in so simple as to require no direction; the only necessity being that enougli air be thrown into the bowel to dis- tend it as far up as the neck of the invaginated portion, or, in other words, that the operation bo continued until the child begins to be uneasy and the belly distinctly tympanitic. Amongst other means for relief, cases are on record where the abdomen has been opened for tiie relief of the bowel in intussusception. It is difficult to reduce one by manipulation after death, and Greig has no doubt it would be much more so to do it during life. Meissner.—Heport on recent researches relative io Tapeioorms and Vesicular Worms {Ecliinococci). Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 29. Mackat, a. E., M.D.—Naval Medical Contrihitions—Di/sentery. Edin- Med. Journ., Jan., 1864. Under the head of prophylaxis, Mackay lays down the following rules:—(i) To institute a watch over men sleeping in the open air, and take care that any exposed part of the body is immediately covered. (2) To have it established as a rule, that after exercise or heavy drill in the tropics the men should shift into dry clothing. (3)iTo have most strin- gent regulations established with regard to men dressing, or at least put- ting on their trousers, before going into the " head'' at night. (4) That on the Canton river station, ships should be relieved as frequently as pos- sible from river service, and that while stationed there during the hot season a morning and evening dose of quinine should be issued to the ship's companies. (5) That the first and middle watches in the Canton river, and in malarial districts generally, should have an allowance of tea or cocoa issued to them. (6) That a strict surveiDance of bumboats should be established in all localities, but especially in those where dysentery is notoriously endemic. (7) That the men should be warned to report themselves on the first signs of diarrhoea appearing. (8) That salt meat should be entirely excluded from the rations during the hot season. Under the head of treatment, Mackay prescribes perfect rest in the horizontal posture, especially during the more acute stages, local depletion to any tender parts of the abdomen, or to the anus, carefully managed fomentations. His experience is decidedly in favour of the administration of mercury, for he has found, as a rule, that the more speedily the system has been brought under its influence the more rapid and satisfactory has been the cure. He usually gives Calomel, gr. Pulv. Ipecac, gr. j -f Pulv. Opii gr. ^ in pil. 3)!»'s vel, 4tis horis. "When the nervous system is much implicated it will always be found that there is great difficulty iu inducing the specific action of the mercury, and care must be taken not to push its use too far, as its tendencies after a certain time are decidedly hurtful. AAHien tlie disease has lasted so long without amendment (that is to say, without a stop being put to the muco-sanguineous dejections) as to induce the belief that consider- able disorganization of the intestinal mucous membrane has taken jilace. it will be necessary to stop its exhibition, for its tendency is to cause softening and ultimately to lead on to gangrene. It will generally be