REPORT ON SUROERY, 824 ■with almost gelatinous grauulations, arranged like villi, and similar to those on the skin. Although tiie scrofulous or lupous caries of the hard palate generally commences in the uarcs, and therefore cannot be accurately examined, still in rare cases—the author has seen three examples—the morbid process first attacks the involucrura palati, the nares presenting no sign of disease. Dark-red tubercles, arranged in groups, are then formed, which, by disintegration, leave numerous ulcers with ragged undermined edges. No crusts are produced, but the fundus of each ulcer presents the same fragile granular mass that is seen in lupus of the external skin, and through this the probe passes to soft, carious bone. Perforations caused by syphilis or scrofulosis are, so far as the author has seen, generally placed in the middle line of the palate. Only once has he seen a circumscribed caries in the left palatine process ; it was in a scrofulous child, and the rest of the palate and nares presented no sign of disease. Thus, the carious process appears to i;sually commence at the sutures between the palatine processes, one with the other, and with the vomer: possibly the continuity of the nasal and palatine periosteum at these spots may furnish some explanation. The author quotes with reference to this particular a case in which the periosteum was stripped from the frontal bone in a rhinoplastic operation. The frontal suture, around which the bone was bared for about an inch and a half, was present; the sutures between the nasal processes of the frontal bone and the remains of the nasal bones were also exposed. It was found as the wound healed that the gi-anulating process was much more active at these spots, so that the sutures were marked by large granulations at a time when the rest of the osseous surface presented none. Whilst the whole os incisivum is occasionally exfoliated (Langeubeck 2 cases, Eicord i case), owing to syphilitic disease, scrofulous caries does not appear to cause such extensive destruction in this region, although it is very liable to attack the neighbourhood of the foramen incisivum. Dr. Semeleder on polypi of the uvula and soft palate ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 535). Prof. Bardelebeu, case of wound (' GreifsAv. Med. Beitr.,' ii, Eeport, p. i). S. Wells, easy method of passing sutures {'Med. Tim. and G-az.,' 1864, i, 10). Prof. Szymanowski on union of the soft palate Avith the posterior wall of the pharynx ('Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, i, 59; ii, 142). M. Sedillot on method of uranoplasty in congenital fissure ot the hard palate and division of the alveolar arch with projection of the intermaxillary bone (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 531). B. Beck and M. Cochu on uranoplasty ('Arch, fiir kliu. Chir.,' iv, 418; 'Gaz. Hebd., 1864, p. 5). Prof. Engel on congenital fissure and union of the upper jaws'c Prag. A^'iertelj.,' 1864, ii, 116). G. Simon on uranoplasty, with special reference to the restoration of a pure (not nasal) voice (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, 129). B. Langeubeck, further experience in urano- plasty ('Arch, fiir kliu. Chir.,' v, i). , aCsophaffus.—E. Sourier, case of oasophagotomy (' Gaz. des Hop., 1864, p. 66). II. Salter on tracheal dysphagia ('Lane.,' 1864, n, 5, 88).