NERVOUS SYSTEJI. 77 perlbnnance. Lasegue states that the sense of fatigue is not, as might have been concluded from tlie above case, only a degree or mode of tlie muscular sense. Another hysterical patient, who had complete anesthesia and paralysis of the lower limbs as far as the middle of the thigh, but not elsewhere, and in whom there was no anodynia, was able when her eyes were closed to move her arms in any direction, and was aware how they were placed. When, however, her eyes were closed she lost the sensation of fatigue, and could hold her arms in the most uncomfortable position for any length of time. In this instance, therefore, the sense of fatigue was lost, while that of the position of the limbs, and the power_ to move them voluntarily remained. These are, therefore distinct faculties. EAiiSKiLL, J. S., M.D.—Clinical lectures on JE;pilepsy.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., May 28. Eamskill notices the action of belladonna on the bowels in many cases of epilepsy, and says that in a great many instances, no doubt spasm is the true cause of the constipation, and that it is removed by the bella- donna ; but that in many others the constipation is due to atony of the muscular coat of the entire tract, to a deficiency of susceptibility to impressions which mark the muscular condition of most chronic epi- leptics. Powerful stimulant purgatives are very much more permanently useful in these latter cases than in the former. With respect to the bladder, we meet, he says, with two common forma of spasm associated with epilepsy. In the first micturition is usually normal; occasionally, however, when two thirds of the contents of the bladder are discharged, the stream sinks to a mere dribble, and the act is finished by great ex- pulsive efl["ort3, attended by a decided feeling of obstruction to be over- come. This condition Eamskill attributes to a partial spasm of the sphincter rather than to failure of action of the detrusor. The second form is perhaps more common. A patient will micturate easily, and with a full stream, until the bladder is again nearly empty, when a complete stoppage accompanied by a decided crampy feeling referred to the neck of the bladder and parts adjoining occurs. In a few seconds the feeling passes away, and the power of micturition completely returns. Explora- tion of the urethra by a catheter is apt to aggravate considerably the tendency to spasm. In a marked case of this kind the patient was most benefited by belladonna suppositories, small injections of QO., into the bladder, and finally by cod-liver oil, and removal to the sea- side. Eamskill applies the term ganglionic epilepsy to a class of cases in which an aura occurs consisting of some disturbance of sensation, accompanied or not by abnormal feeling of motion in the abdomen, Patients describe those feelings A'ariously, as turning upside down, sinking, fainting, a sense of great coldness, or a rush iipwards from the epigastric region, of heat, trembling, borborygmi, shivering, or a feel- ing of complete collapse, and emptiness of stomach, sometimes with nausea. More or less of these feelings may be always present, and exaggerated only just before a fit. Eamskill believes the symptoms complained of arise from a disturbed condition of the solar plexus and the ganglionic system of the abdomen generally. It may be from a failure of action, or from a disturbed or intermittent action of the solar