REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 478 cliiefly of a bronchitic or asthmatic kind, tubercular phthisis being com- paratively rare except in those hereditarily predisposed to it. The com- missioners regret that the attention of medical men has not been more directed to the nature of these prevalent affections, for the evidence from post-mortem examinations is very scanty ; but the distinction from tubercular phthisis is strongly indicated by the fact that the pi-oportiou of pulmonary disease, small in childhood, rapidly increases with advanc- ing years. " The first symptoms of failing health among the miners are weakness in the limbs in climbing the ladders and beating the borer, shortness of breathing, giddiness, and pains in the head; their appetite fails, they are unable to take or digest a sufficient quantity of food, and often suffer from sickness and vomiting. These symptoms are followed by harassing cough ; much expectoration, sometimes of mucus, occa- sionally of blood ; tightness of chest, and failure of general strength. These affections precede total inability'to work, followed by premature death." The delicate condition of the miners is in marked contrast'to the vigorous health enjoyed by the women and children in the same districts. Besides improved ventilation, the commissioners recommend the construction of proper houses, conveniently situated, in which the men can change and dry their clothes, and the application of mechanical means to convey them to and from the surface when the mines are of great depth. The health of the miners is stated to have presented an evident improvement in those mines in which the man-engine has been in operation. The sanitary state of the miners appears to be worst in the mines of Devonshire and Cornwall, and it is but little better in the lead mines of the north of England. In the rock-salt mines of Cheshire and in the haematite iron mines of the Furness district in Lancashire the men are remarkably robust and healthy. Dr. Angus Smith and Dr. Bernays give analyses of the air collected in various mines. The observation of Dr. Angus Smith, that minute crystals of sulphate or of nitrate of potass are readily detected in the air of mines after gunpowder explosions, appears to be of considerable importance. Sailors—Dr. R. Barnes (6th Eeport, &c.; Appendix, p. 330) reports on the occurrence of sea-scurvy in the mercantile marine, where this disease appears to be on the increase. Many cases are admitted annually into the Dreadnought and into the Sailor's Home, though very few such patients find their way into the great metropolitan hospitals. A large number of these men are employed by Liverpool and Hamburg owners, and the ships come chiefly from China, the East Indies, and the Mauritius. The duration of the voyages varied in the cases at Dread- nought from 56 to 168 days. The shortest time occurred m a ship from San Domingo, in which 2 bad scurvy cases existed at the end ot a voyage of <{6 days. The efficacy of lemou-juice as a preventive is well illustrated by the fact that in 3 instances the only man attacked by the disease was one who had refused to take the juice. Much of the lime-iuice supplied to merchant ships appears to be of very inferior quality Dr. Barnes recommends that the inspection of tlie stores of these ships before leaving port should be compulsory, and not, as at present, contingent on complaint by 3 of the crew, and that the penal-