329 TEEATMENT OF HYDATID CYSTS. of equal parts of tincture of iodiue and of water; about 1200 grammes of a greenish purulent matter escaped; the injection gave no pain, and after seven or eight minutes was again entirely evacuated. Vor a little time the patient appeared much better, but again the same symptoms showed the formation of a purulent cyst. Caustics were now applied as in the method of Eecamier, but owing to the resistance of the child, were ineffective. The symptoms were rapidly becoming threatening; it appeared quite necessary to freely open the cyst. On the 7th Oct. a large trocar, such as is used for ovarian tumours, was introduced through the part where caustics had been applied; a quantity of greenish, stinking pus (1250 grammes), mixed with numerous remnants of hydatids, escaped. A large gum-elastic catheter was slipped through the canula, and the latter was then removed ; injections of tepid water, to cleanse the cyst and force out all hydatid remains, were many times repeated ; the operation was concluded by injecting a solution composed of equal parts of tincture of iodine and water. The iodiue injections were repeated morning and evening ; imder their influence the pus soon lost its unpleasant odour. The general condition improved, the fever and the night-sweats disappeared, sleep and a better appetite returned. A cure would have ensued, if the hydatids could have escaped by the catheter ; the latter was still retained not only with a view of facilitating the discharge of pus and of allowing injections, but also with that of causing adhesions between the cyst and abdominal wall. On the i4tli October the catheter was replaced by one still larger, and again two days later by another lai'ger still. Dr. Boinet being then quite certain that there were fii-m adhesions around the seat of puncture, washed the cyst out, withdrew the catheter, and introduced in its place a large ciu'ved trocar with the sharp point drawn back within the canula. Having passed it up towards the ensiform cartilage, he raised the abdominal wall with the end of the canula, so as to be able to feel it with the fingers of the left hand; this point being determined, he pressed the stilette forwards, forcing it through the abdominal wall. This fresh aperture was five centimetres above the former one, towards the spot where the cyst had probably originated. An elastic catheter pierced with lateral holes was now passed through the canula, and the latter was withdrawn. The catheter would thus act as a hollow seton, allowing the cyst to be washed out and injected, and also permitting a continued discharge of the contents ; the author's principal object was, however, to cause adhesions, not only around the fresh aperture but also along the space between the two punctures, so as to fix the cyst firmly to the abdominal parietes and allow him to incise it sufficiently freely for the exit of hydatids, without danger of effusion into the peritonei cavity. On the ist November he carried an incision about three centimetres long from the upper towards the lower aperture; a mass of hydatids escaped. The drainage-tube and injections were con- tinued; no reaction followed. The cyst rapidly contracted, hardly admitting 80 to 100 grammes of fluid eight days later. Soon there was only a fistulous canal, yet fearing that the cyst might not be entirely obliterated, the author replaced the drainage-tube on the 20th of Nov by a seton formed of some waxed threads. On the ist December these