28 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. that even m swallowing liquids the epiglottis is not touched by them • and also that its complete removal does not interfere in any way with the perfect protection of the glottis during swallowing; this being, as is well known, ollected by its closure by its own muscles, and by its being drawn up behind and beneath tiie base of the tongue. The epiglottis does, how- ever, serve to protect the air-passages, viz., against the trickling into them of the small quantity of fluid which remains in the mouth after drinking. This liquid, by collecting in the sinus pyriformes by the side of the epiglottis, and stimulating their sensibility, gives rise naturally to a supplementary act of swallowing. Dogs in which the epiglottis was removed coughed after drinking, unless they were induced to perform this supplementary act of swallowing by licking the cup, &c. In persons, therefore, who drink in such a way that the fluid falls by its own gravity into the mouth the absence of the epiglottis would lead to choking, and this probably explains the contradictory results which have been met with. This view of its function is confirmed by the special development of the epiglottis in animals in which fluids naturally enter the mouth without suction—as in the whale, the otter, and the young of the Monotremata, which latter do not suck, the mother by her own muscles squeezing the milk into their mouths. (' Moleschott's Unter- suehungen,' vol. 9, p. 321.) IX. NEETOTJS SYSTEM. The Functions of the various portiotis of the Nervous Centres in the vertebrata have been newly investigated by Pietro Eenzi, who has published the results obtained in lishes, reptiles, and birds, in the ' Ann. Univers.,' 185—187, 1863-4. In the fish (salmon) are found—(i) the olfactory lobes; (2) the central lobes; (3) the optic lobes, within which are the optic commissure and the 4 corpora quadrigemina ; (4) the cerebellum; and (5) the ganglia inferiora. In respect to the general properties of the brain, Eenzi's results agree with those of Flourens—the cerebral lobes, optic laminae, and the fibres of the cere- bellum, are neither sensitive nor excitory; the internal ganglia of the optic lobes are in a high degree excitory, violent convulsions ensuing when they are wounded. One point is added, that when the cere- bellum is injured convulsive motions of the eyeball follow. Fishes deprived of the cerebral lobes retain their sensational jjerceptions and their instinctive activity ; they avoid painful impressions, struggle when removed from the water, and avoid a blow directed towards their eyes ; but they seem to have no apprehension of danger, nor of the means of seeking food, nor do they make any spontaneous move- ments. In a word, the cerebral lobes are the seat of intelligence, and this alone. The lamincB optica are the centres of vision, each for the opposite eye. The ganglia interna are the central terminations of the motor cerebro-spinal nerves, and are exciters of muscular contraction, any irritation of them producing active muscular twitchings. After exten- sive injury of both or either of them there results a general muscular relaxation ; extreme prostration and death soon follow. These ganglia are connected with the same and not with the opposite side of the body.