KEUVOUS SYSTEM. 67 supposed. This is the more likely when it can be pointed out that the muscles first affected by spasm in those cases are the same as are paralysed in plugging of the middle cerebral artery ; and again, that the hemiplegia which sometimes follows the unilateral convulsions (epileptic hemplegia) is also of the same kind as that which follows plugging. In another case which he gives, the patient, set. 54, of healthy appearance, and free from valvular disease, had 9 or 10 fits consisting of loss of speech (temporary), right-sided convulsions, and unconsciousness. Jackson believes the cause to have been spasm of the middle cerebral artery or its divisions. This, he says, is a mere hypothesis, but it is at all events a smaller one than such theories of reflex irritation as are generally received; such for in- stance that worms or teething produce universal convulsions ; and it gives the theory of reflex irritation at least an anatomical framework to say that disease in the range of a cerebral artery produces spasm of the branches of that arterial system. The view generally held, supposes that an irrita- tion may produce paralysis or spasm in parts which have no special anatomical connection, or physiological relationship. According to Jackson's hypothesis, the brain-substance would be temporarily ill- nourished by spasm of the vessel, just as it would permanently in the case of embolism by plugging of the arterial trunk. In the first then, we should have unilateral convulsions, and in the second unilateral paralysis— in one hemiplegic epilepsy, in the other what, if, as is now and then the case, it were preceded by convulsions, we should call epileptic hemiplegia. Clinical observations seem to demonstrate beyond a doubt that con- vulsion is closely allied to paralysis. We constantly find paralysis fol- lowing convulsions, and, what is more striking, we often find convulsions beginning in parts already paralysed. Such cases seem to Jackson to prove beyond doubt the truth of Dr. Eadcliffe's views, that convulsions depend on enfeebled power of the nervous centres, or diminution of blood- supply, rather than on increased irritability or congestion. Now^and then convulsions usher in hemiplegia from embolism. Here it is inconceivable that the condition of the motor tract, the corpus striatum, can be any other than one of anaemia. It may be said that the medulla oblongata and not the corpus striatum is concerned in convulsions. Whatever the medulla oblongata may have to do in some links of the seizure, it is a fact that unilateral convulsions do follow from affections of the corpus striatum, as in the instance of embolism, and that they do follow disease on the surface of the hemisphere. The medulla oblongata may be diseased as well, but post-mortem examination shows that in unilateral convulsions the middle cerebral artery itself, or of some part of the brain in its range is diseased too. Jackson further observes, a patient may be m rude health, and j&i part of his nervous system may be below par fi-om some quasi accidental cause, as embolism, or local injury to the side of the skul], or syphilitic deposit in the pia mater on the surface of the hemis- phere. In such cases then, part of the nervous system only being affected, the convulsions also are partial. It seems then reasonable to suppose that when the nuti-ition of a part of the brain is below par we should give as drugs and food such substances as are known to contain constituents of nervous tissue. Then, the blood being enriched, the part below par would get its nutrient supply more easily. A case is next cited from the ex*