EXAMINATION OP THE EECTUM. 389 Femoral hernia.—M. Fleury ou haemorrhage after an operatiou per- formed at the catamenial period (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 546). Prof. Blaziua, case of multilocular sac ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, ^^ H.'^Lee, radical cure of umbilical hernia ('Brit. Med. Jouru.,' 1863, ii, 543). Dr. Peacock, diaphragmatic hernia (' Trans, of the Path. Soc.,' xiv, 146). J. C. Porster, case of modified obturator (?) hernia (' Guy's Hosp. Eeports,' x, 143). BECTUM. W. H. van Bureii, certain points in the surgical treatment of diseases of the rectum ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 218).—The author explains the best mode of exploring the rectum by the aid of the speculum in the following words. " Before the employment of anaesthetics, even with the variety of specula devised for the purpose, this procedure was, in my experience, unsatisfactory. The power of rendering a patient uncon- scious has proved of immense assistance; but, in order to effect the object thoroughly, it is necessary, after the full influence of the anaes- thetic has been produced, to place the patient in a particular position, as well as to secure the best possible light. The position which I have found most advantageous is that employed by our colleague, Dr. Marion Sims, in his very successful operations upon the vagina and neck of the uterus, the superiority of which he first recognised and pointed out, as detailed in his paper ou ' Silver Sutures.' " The patient is placed with the upper part of the trunk in a prone l^ositiou, the front of the thorax in contact with the bed or table, the head on its left side, the left arm brought out at the left side and car- ried behind the back, the pelvis on its left side, with the thighs flexed at a right angle, and the buttocks exposed towards the light, and ele- vated sufficiently to permit the abdominal viscera to gravitate towards the diaphragm. These details may seem unnecessarily minute, but those who have witnessed the operations of Dr. Sims will bear witness that they are easily carried out in pi-actice, and that the position secures great advantages to the operator by permitting the air to enter and freely expand the vagina, thus relieved from the pressure of super- incumbent organs. In exploration of the rectum the same advantages ai'e obtained as soon as the sphincter ani is dilated by the introduction of the speculum. The speculum I employ is a modification of that used for the vagina by Dr. Sims; the modifications consisting in the notch at its angle intended to receive the sphincter muscle, and thus to resist the tendency of the instrument to slip out when the muscle is put upon the stretch, and the alteration of the handle, which is so shaped as to clear the buttock when it is swept round, so as to bring all sides of the cavity of the gut into view. To facilitate still further this latter manoeuvre, and to protect the sti'etched mucous membrane from abrasion, the edges of the blade are carefully rounded and turned inwards. '"J'he speculum being introduced and the sphincter put upon the stretch with one hand, the other hand is used to draw away the parts on the opposite side of the orifice; and, the handle of the instrument