894 IIEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. caution in using tlio ut(!rine sound in certain cases of flexion of the uterus of old standing. Its introduction in some of these cases gives rise to much needless pain and suffering; and if attempts be made to replace the uterus when bound down by old adhesions, grievous and even fatal injury may bo inflicted. Virchow, Scanzoni, and others, have also pointed out that in cases of prolonged retroflexion the cervical canal becomes extremely contracted at its upper extremity, and this contraction obstructs the introduction of the sound. This is due, in many cases, not to the simple flexion, but to organic narrowing of the canal at the situation of the oiv internum, produced by atrophy of the posterior wall at the seat of flexure ; and, unless great care be exercised, the sound may easily be pushed through the wall at this point. In the treatment, Dr. Priestley remarks that, where there is uterine enlargement, with pain and tenderness, associated with displacement, the disease should be first treated. He advocates rest, the administration of the bromide and iodide of potassium, and strict attention to the management of the men- strual periods, the greatest care being taken to avoid ovarian and pelvic congestion. A very simple and efficacious pessary is invented and de- scribed by the author, which can readily be adapted to any alteration of curve the case may require. Mr. Brown records two cases of retroflexion treated by simple incision of the OS and cervix uteri. In one case the patient had been suffering from this condition for fourteen years, with the attendant pain and difficulty in defseca- tion, and was immediately cured by this operation. The author states that he has found the same treatment uniformly successful in private and hospital practice. He adds that the true source of uterine disturbance and dis- placement in both the married and the single is to be found ver}' fre- quently in habits of delectation, and that in these cases excision of the clitoris can'alone give permanent relief. In many cases it is also, he states, a cause of sterility, and in these dilatation of the cervix is useless, and excision of the clitoris is the only cure. DISEASES OE THE XTTEEUS.—EIBEOTIS TTTMOiniS OF THE UTEETTS. Dr. Eouth, " On Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus." The Lettsomian Lec- tures on Midwifery, 1863 ('Brit. Med. Jour.,' i, 1864). Mr. Hutchinson, " On the Surgical Treatment of Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus" (Holmes' ' System of Surgery,' vol. 4). Dr. Matthews Duncan, " The Source of Hsemorrhage in a Case of Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus" (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' Jan., 1864). Mr. Baker Brown, " On the Surgical Treatment of Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus" ('Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5, 1865). I.—The simplest idea of a fibrous tumour is to regard it as a growth in which the fibro-cellular tissue predominates. In some cases there is less, in others more, cellular tissue present, and hence the division into fibrous and fibro-cellular tumours. Where the uterine tissue is more marked they are called " fleshy tubercles," or muscular tumours. Three classes of tumours are recognised:—(i) Fibromas, includinghj/steronuis {fibroids of Lebert), which difler from fibromas in their benignity and in never ulcer-