387 CEPIIALOTRIPSY. labour 28 hours. Dr. Earle's pelvimeter was applied without difficulty, and registered a conjugate diameter of 2^". Craniotomy was at once performed, and delivery accomplished in about a quarter of an hour. The patient we'nt on well until the 3rd day, when acute mania set in, and she died 7 days after delivery. The pelvis, after removal of the soft parts, mea- sured at the brim 2f" in the conjugate, 4I" in the transverse, and 4f" in the oblique diameter. CEPHALOTEIPST. Dr. Ritchie, " On the Operation of Cephalotripsy as performed at Vienna by Prof. Braun " ('Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5, 1865). Dr. Winckel, " On Cephalotripsy " (' Abhandl. der Obst. Gesellsch. zu Berlin,' Nov., 1864). 1. —Dr. Ritchie describes the instruments used in performing cephalo- tripsy, an operation which in Vienna is almost invariably substituted for the iise of the crotchet. The perforator is intended to replace Smellie's scissors, and is a long curved trephine, in the use of which two persons are re- quired. The cephalotribe differs from the French instruments in being smaller and less cumbersome. It is 16 inches long, with strong and non- fenestrated blades. When closed, they meet at the points, and nowhere does the distance between them, including the thickness, exceed 2" 2"'. Each blade is 11'" broad, and 2"' thick ; but it is further strengthened by three ridges which project from its inner surface, and are intended to increase the tenacity with which the head is grasped. 2. —Dr. Winckel exhibited the skulls of three children who had been delivered by cephalotripsy, and the uniformity shown in the appearances of all three appeared to establish a general law. In the application of the cephalotribe the instrument was generally apphed in several diameters, one after the other, and from the consequent crushing it was said that the majority of the bones were broken up into small pieces. But an examination of these skulls showed that only one bone, and almost always, according to the position of the head, a parietal bone, was much crushed, while the opposite part of the head, and therefore generally the basis cranii, was only simply fractured. On all three skulls there was, however, a considerable indentation of the occipital bone, so that the effect of the cephalotribe appeared to be that at the first pressure, one, or sometimes also the second bone, was crushed, while at each further application a dislocation only of all the bones, especially of the occipital bone, was produced. From these results. Dr. Winckel concludes that cephalotripsy was, for the mother, the most favorable mode of breaking up the head, inasmuch as no sharp splinters of bone came in contact with the soft parts, and in many cases, also, the preceding process of trephining by the perforator was not necessary. In the discussion which followed, Strassman remarked that in the four cases in which he had used the cephalotribe he had not found that instrument sufficient in head presen- tations, and had therefore been obliged to perforate. In those cases, however, where version had been performed first, tho head had followed after cephalotripsy alone. Prof Martin agreed with Strassman on tho latter point, and urged the importance of turning over perforation in all eases where the former is possible.