10 REPORT OX PnYSIOLOGy. than in an elevated position. It is increased also by cold and diminislied by heat; and on tliis fact depends tlie maintenance of a uniform tern- perature, the cooling of the blood in the extremities and on the surface of the body being thus favoured by heat and diminished by cold. In the application of his experiments to the elucidation of disease Marey traces the phenomena of fever to relaxation of the capillaries, analogous to a, universal section of tlie sympathetic, the arterial tension being diminished, except in the criqHive fevers, in whicli it is increased. Thus, the eruptive fevers seem to differ from other febrile states, the heart in them being primarily excited. The main phenomena of algidity are due to capillary contraction. If the pulse is more rapid in vomiting, and in cholera and hajmorrhage, this is because of the efort in the first case, and in the latter diseases the loss of fluid diminishes the arterial tension in spite of the state of vascular contraction. If all the vessels liad opposing sets of vaso-motor nerves (as the glands have), the phenomena of fever and rigor might be referred to the action or paralysis of one or other order; but seeing it is not so, the action is exhibited by the state of contraction, and the relaxation is an exhaustion consequent on it. In- flammation also is a result of vascular relaxation ; it tends towards the surface of the body, because the vessels which are subject to the least compression most easily yield. Union by first intention depends chiefly upon sufficient ^jresszjre, which prevents the relaxation of the vessels. The subsidence of the inflammatory state is to be ascribed to the vessels acquiring Ij/ custom a greater contractility, which enables them to regain their normal calibre in spite of conditions which tend to their relaxation. Senile degeneration of the arteries leaves its trace upon the pulse, more or less, in by far the greater number of persons past 50. In aneurism the enfeeblemeut and retardation of the pulse are due to the elasticity of the sac alone, and not to the presence of coagula. The phenomena are the same upon the artificial system. Tiie presence of solid fibrine within the sac reveals itself, by means of the sphygmograph, in the form of the pulse, which is less modified in proportion as the con- tents of the tumour are solid. For the diagnosis between aneurisms and solid pulsating tumours this instrument may also be employed. The tumour being pressed upon, if it be solid the curve of the pulsation is increased, if an aneurism the curve is diminished. The Lr^tit de souffle is in all cases due to a very diminished arterial tension ; it is produced by the passage of a stream of fluid from a smaller to a larger space under a slight resistance, so that it acquires a high velocity, and throws the surrounding structures into vibration together with itself. A narrow jet of liquid issuing freely into a glass tube pro- duces no bruit, but if it passes through a layer of fluid a decided bruit is produced, in which the tube participates. Every kind of bruit can be produced on an elastic tube by varying pressure. Anajmia causes bruits to be more easily produced, by the capillary relaxation it induces, render- ing the flow of blood more free, and so diminishing arterial tension. Fever, violent exercise, and, as witnessed in one case, poisoning bj- opium, produce bruits in this way. In fine, the various lesions, valvular and other, of tlie heart, and certain general diseases—among whicli are emphysema, rheumatism, jaundice,