M4< llKl'ORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA IIKUICA. confession, 5 or 6 grains of this alkaloid about 5 p.m. on the 10th ether. Its solutions have an alkaline reaction. Its taste is hitter, and its odour resembles that of organic matter decaying in a moist place. When administered subcutaneously, its first elfects are restlessness and signs of slight irritation. The animal is then languid and lies still, and the respiration is slow, without being laboured. Pits of con- vulsions then come on, and paralysis, first of sensation, then of motion, follows. This paralytic stage shortly precedes death. The respiration also becomes heaving and irregular; and sometimes it is spasmodic, and occurs only at long intervals. Vomiting and expulsion of fajces and urine are usually among the symptoms observed in warm-blooded animals. This poison has a special action on the pupil. When 2 dro])s of a dilute solution are placed between the eyelids the iris contracts. This effect is also observed during the convulsive stage of general poi- soning. When paralysis occurs the pupil dilates. It does not follow that contraction of the pupil would be caused in man by this substance, for many poisons produce this effect iu animals without having the same action on the human subject. The complete cessation of cardiac action is, however, the character- istic effect of dajaksch. After its introduction beneath the skin of a frog the heart's pulsations soon become feeble. The organ then begins to beat peristaltically (from the apex to the base) and irregularly, the auricles contracting twice as frequently as the ventricles. After a time the ventricles become motionless; some time afterwards the auricles are seen to pulsate more and more slowly, and at last they also cease to contract. Mechanical and electrical stimuli fail to produce any contraction when the heart has once become paralysed. Tlie ventricles remain bloodless and pale, while the auricles contain blood. At the time when the heart ceases to act sensation and motion are still unimpaired, so that if released a frog will jump about briskly, with an immovable heart. In warm-blooded animals the effects are similar, but not so well defined. Further physiological experiment, by excluding the influence of the vagus and of the spinal nerves, leads to the conclusion that the action of dajaksch upon the heart is caused by its paralysing the cardiac sym- pathetic ganglia. Kollikcr, of Wiirtzburg, found that the upas autiar (which is the active principle of the arrow-poison of Java) acts directly on the muscular fibres. Tliis, tlierefore, would establish a difference between them, should further investigation confirm it. Zof/aniacece. A case of poisoning by strychnia is related by Casper (' Yjhrschrft.,* N. F. I, p. i).—It is of interest, because it is believed to be the first instance in which this substance has been used in Germany, or at least in Prussia, to destroy life. This is, no doubt, in great part due to the fact that phosphorus and arsenic are used in these countries to kill vermin, and not strychnia, which enters into the composition of some of the substances sold for this purpose in England. Tiie subject of Casper's case was a man, a?t. 30, who took, according to liis own