REPOET ON SURGERY. 204 injured limb is enclosed in a starch bandage. So long as the latter is firmly applied to the extremity, the surgeon may rest satisfied with the conclusion to be drawn from the condition of the peripheral (uncovered) portion. When, however, the bandage becomes looser, sudden increase of the temperature to the extent of half a degree Centigrade or more (the morning temperature being of course always compared with that of the next morning, and the evening with that of the next evening), which cannot be referred to any other cause, is a most certain sign, that some intercurrent affection, erysipelas, phlegmon, or periostitis, is attacking the extremity. The value of this indication is obvious, for it is well known that these diseases are not always announced by local pain. Prof. Nussbaxm, tlie prolongation of chloroform-ancestliesia for several hours hy means of the sulcutaneous injection of morphia (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 432).—Of several eases recorded, it may suffice to quote the following:—The upper jaw was excised for cancer, and owing to the skin being implicated, a flap had to be transplanted from the temple. A grain of the acetate of morphia was injected under the skin, while the patient was still under the influence of the chloroform. He slept for eight hours, during which time the breathing was perfectly quiet, the pulse regular, and the skin completely anaesthetic. It is noteworthy that the same dose had been administered in the same way some days previously, and had scarcely induced sleep, far less anaesthesia. Possibly this combination of narcotic means may prove of use in tetanus, in certain neuroses, &c. Dr. Burow has found that gypsum hardens much sooner when a weak solution of alum (about a teaspoonful of alum to the pint) is used instead of water ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 207). R. Gieseler on the use of quinine in surgery ('Arch. fUr klin. Chir.'iv, 550). M. 0. Eeveil on per- manganate of potash and on its use as a disinfectant ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1864, i, 21). M. Soupart, description of some new instruments ('Bull. Beige.,' 1863, p. 628). Lutter, instrument for cutting plaster bandages ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 12). J. H. Packard, 'Manual of Minor Surgery,' (pp. 228, Philad., Lippincott & Co.). PLASTIC StTEGEET. B. Lmigeniech on a new mode of performing rhinoplasty (' Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 13).—Very satisfactory results may be gained by the usual operation, provided the nasal processes of the upper jaw still remain, only the ossa nasi, skin, and cartilages being deficient. But when the whole of the bones and soft parts have been destroyed, both the Indian and the Italian methods are quite insufficient. The new nose, however large and perfectly formed, sinks gradually, as time advances, to the level of the face, and ultimately projects no farther than the original stump. -1 1 r With the view of rendering the new nose firmer, and, it possible, ol giving it a bony foundation, Langenbeck tried in 1859 periosteal rhino- plasty i. e. transplantation of a frontal flap including both skin and peri- cranium ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1859, No. 48). From five cases thus treated by him, he draws the conclusion that the nose so formed is really much firmer, and that by ossification of the transplanted periosteum more or