467 MALARIA. HOSPITALS. Dr. Bristowe and Mr. Holmes have investigated the influence of different sanitary circumstances as affecting the results of treatment in the various hospitals of the United Kingdom. The conclusions at which they arrived are given in the 6th Heport, &c. (Appendix, p. 463). They are naturally incapable of condensation, but both they and the remarks upon them, made by Mr. Simon, contain much information. Mr. Simon criticises severely, and most justly, the statis- tics of the Registrar-General, which had been used by that oflicer to prove the comparative unhealthiness of the general hospitals of large towns. He suggests especially the importance of comparing the i-esults of similar operations in various public institutions, after taking the utmost care to ensure exact similarity in all the other conditions. He also insists on the value and necessity of good scientific records, having a common basis, of the cases treated in the different hospitals. MALAEIA. Dr. Whitley reports (6th Report, &c.; Appendix, p. 430) on the fre- quency of malarious disease in the inhabitants of marsh districts. His conclusions are highly satisfactory. Ague appears now to be both rare and mild in form in those districts where it was formerly most severe, as in Norfolk, Lincolnshire, and Cambridgeshire, as well as in Hamp- shire and on the west coast north of Liverpool. This change is gene- rally attributed to improved drainage, but it is stated by some, as by Dr. Christison ('Year-Book,' 1863, p. 456), that malaria began to decline before the drainage was commenced. The conversion of pasture- land into arable is also supposed to have diminished the amount of malarious disease. Sheppey, Hoo, Spalding, Hull, New Eomney, and Lewes, are mentioned as places where ague is still prevalent; and it is stated that at Huntspill and in the marshes on the banks of the Swale no improvement has as yet occurred. The high rate of infantile mortality in certain marshy districts having attracted attention. Dr. Hunter was requested to report on it. The regions in which it occurs are chiefly 5, viz.—i. The districts of Howden, Goole, and Thome, near the Humber estuary. 2. Around the Wash, in a large part of Norfolk, Lincolnshire, and Cambridgeshire. 3. The districts of Yarmouth and Mutford. 4. The inland fenny districts of Wayland and Guiltcross, lying in the middle of East Anglia. 5. The small district of Hoo, apposite Chatham, on the Medway. In these parts of England, though country districts, the infantile death- rate is from 2^ to nearly 3 times as high as in those parts which have the lowest mortality. The death-rate at Wisbeach is nearly as high as at Manchester. With wonderful unanimity, the medical men in these neighbourhoods attributed this effect to the employment of women in field-labour, con- sequent on the improved drainage. The soil being light, women easily find occupation on it, and often work ia large gangs. Tlioir children are left to the care of others. They are therefore deprived of their