125 CIKCULATOUY SYSTEM. Alono- with these are greater and smaller masses of shrivelling nuclei, as well as numerous granules and globules of elain, calcareous salts, tablets of cholesterine, and masses of pigment. Here also the plates of calcifying connective tissue are formed. The connective-tissue growth of the inner coat at a later period, when its elastic layer has disappeared, advances also to the middle, so that either the layers of the circular coat are separated by the pressure of the new-formed connective tissue or their inner layers are actually replaced by it. The integrity of the circular coat may also be attacked from the outer when connective- tissue growth, accompanied with new formation of vessels, takes place in the latter. The vessels of the outer coat then grow into the middle, and Eokitansky has even followed them into the connective-tissue deposits on the inner. In the basis substance of the connective tissue growing between the layers of the middle coat are found cells solitary or in groups with roundish or oval nuclei. At the same time also the nuclei of the organic muscular fibre-cells in the middle coat usually take on exaggerated growth. The elasticity of the arterial tube, which depends on the contractility of the middle coat, is, of course, diminished correspondingly to the amount of connective-tissue growth which takes place in the middle coat and the thickness of the deposit on the internal. Peacock, T. B., M.D.— Cases of unusual slowness of the Pulse, loith re- marks. Med. Times and Gazette, Jan. 2, 9, 16. Peacock says, " the occurrence of slowness of the pulse, in connec- tion with cardiac disease, has been long familiar to practical men, and that syncopic or epileptic paroxysms are of common occurrence in such cases. It remains to inquire whether the infrequency of the pulse is connected with any special form of cardiac disease or may occur in different organic affections. Mr. Mayo supposed that slowness of pulse especially occurred in cases of ossification of the coronary arteries, and atrophy with or without passive dilatation. It appears, however, more in accordance with experience to find a weak and irregular pulse in cases of atrophy and dilatation; and in the only case of slowness of pulse which I have had the opportunity of examining after death the heart was in the opposite condition, the left ventricle, though large, being very greatly hypertrophied. Dr. Stokes and Dr. Quain have pointed out that slowness of pulse frequently accompanies fatty degeneration of the walls of the heart, and suppose that the attenuation in the structure of the organ occasions the diminution in the rate. Of the frequency of the coincidence there can be no doubt, attested as it is by other observers. On the other hand, Dr. B. Jones and Dr. Ogle have related cases in which the heart had undergone the fibrinous degeneration, and the pulse during life had been remarkably slow, and they ascribe the slowness to the state of the structure of the heart. These views are, how- ' ever, open to very grave objections. AVe know that the occurrence of slowness of pulse in cases of fatty degeneration is only exceptional, the ! most usual character being weakness and irregularity. Dr. Quain, in il the table which he gives of the state of the pulse in cases of fatty de- ! generation, reports only 8 cases of slowness in the which he refers to.