128 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. produced upon the rate by the exhibition of stimulants. Indeed, sometimes the condition is very persistent, continuing after the patient has gained botli llesii and streugtli, and is able to make a considerable amount of muscular exertion. In sucii cases, indeed, it only subsides uiidor the prolonged use of iron, and other remedies which may act directly on the muscular structure or nerves of the heart. The intei- mittent pulse bears a very close analogy to the slow pulse, and occurs under very similar circumstances. It may accompany different forms of valvular and other diseases of the heart, yet may be present when the organ is entirely free from disease. The explanation which has been given of the cause of the former condition is equally applicable to the latter. PissiN".—On hleedinc/ from tlie Bcmine Vein. Deutsche Klinik, 8, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 339. Pissin recommends tliis procedure in cases of stomatitis, tonsillitis, pharyngitis, and laryngitis. He records the case of a youth, set. 15, suffering from acute laryngitis, in whom it seems to have proved very beneficial. The vein is to be opened longitudinally, and the bleeding encouraged as much as possible. In adults 6 to 8 ounces of blood may be procured from one bleeding. Dr. Stirling.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., March ,15th. Eecords 3 cases benefited by digitalis, and remarks that from his experience of the action of digitalis in cardiac disease he is satisfied that we have in that drug a most valuable agent in cases of enfeebled heart without valvular complications. Its action on the organ appears direct and rapid, and no bad effects seem to foUow its prolonged use. EESPIRATORT STSTEIT. G-iBB.—Lancet, January 23rd. Eecords a case in which the entire trachea, and the bronchi to some extent, were greatly thickened, and the diameter of the canal contracted so that a tracheotomy tube could not be introduced. The contraction commenced about half an inch from the commencement of the trachea, and continued nearly all the way to the bifurcation, where the walls were 2 lines thick. The diameter of the left bronchus at its commence- ment was about 2 lines, and its lining membrane was intensely inflamed, with several ulcerated patches. The rings of the trachea could not be distinguished from within, for the whole of its interior was irregular and uneven from fibrinous deposit. The lower half of the epiglottis was occupied by a number of flattish, warty, fibrinous bodies ; 2 or 3, the size of small peas, smooth and round, were present on the right side of the larynx, involving the false vocal cord. The patient was a male, £Et. 20, and had suffered with difficult and stridulous breathing for 12 months, with cough and expectoration. His voice, though feeble and somewhat hoarse, was quite audible. There was no history of syphilis, though the disease was suspected from ulceration and purulent secre- tion of the left nostril. GiBB, G., M.D.—0» Albuminuric Aphonia. Lancet, Feb. 20th, 1864. After citing a case from his own experience, Gibb gives the following