SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. ]87 taminafcion of the water supply. The varieties of fever to be met with in the Holy City are almost endless. Chaplin considers them under the heads of febricula, mild remittent fever, severe remittent fever, intermittent fever, typhus and typhoid, bilious or bilio-gastric. Syrian, or severe remittent fever, is a most variable disease in every circum- stance connected with it. Not only are no two cases exactly alike, but the difiereuce between one case and another is in many points so great that it is scarcely possible to include the modifications of the disease in a general description. It may begin with fits of ague recurring at longer or shorter intervals, or after exposure to the sun and fatigue ; it may ensue gradually or suddenly. The cold fit varies much in seve- rity and in duration; in many cases it is scarcely perceptible. As a rule, the severer the attack the less marked is the cold stage; to shake out well is a good sign in this as in the intermittent form of fever. The complications are chiefly irritability of stomach, amounting some- times to gastritis; congestion of the liver and spleen, and sometimes also of the brain. In a few cases the chest suffers, and there is cough and pain. After the paroxysms have been cut short by medicines the system does not immediately return to a healthy state. Not only is there extreme debility, but the aspect and feelings of the patient show that tlie disease has not yet relinquished its hold. He is depressed, anxious, restless, and does not regain his appetite. Often there is headaclie, thirst, and a dry tongue, even though the pulse be quick and the skin cool; and in other cases mild but distinct attacks of feverishness come on daily. This condition may last a week or more, and if great care be not taken a relapse, which may prove fatal, is very likely to ensue. Chaplin is acquainted with scarcely any disease which is so liable to relapse as Syrian fever, and with.hardly any state of the system whicli gives so much trouble and anxiety as the convalescence from it. Even long after the patient has been able to walk about and has returned to his ordinary avocations pains in the limbs, and especially in the knees and calves of the legs, will frequently remain and prevent sleep. This long-continued debility forms one of the most important sequela) of the disease. Often it remains for months, and can then only be removed by change of air. Enlargement of the spleen is sometimes added, and helps to prolong still further the infirm state of health. Chronic hepatic disorder is also very liable to follow, and occasionally terminates in abscess. Chaplin has only seen 3 such cases ; in two of them there had been no preceding diarrhoea or dysentery. It has been impossible to investigate the morbid anatomy of Syrian fever. AVhile not doubting that this disease and ague are specifically distinct, and that their exciting causes are not always identical, Chaplin thinks it beyond question that a true ague may develope into a remittent fever. Observation has led him to doubt whether Syrian fever be not really a continued fever, accompanied by a succession of periodical paroxysms, and whether it have not as definite a course to run as typhus or typhoid. Quinine will cut short the paroxysms, but it will not cure the disease • and, on the other liand, numbers of persons have this fever and recover from it without taking quinine or any other antiperiodic. Moreover cases frequently occur in which it is very difficult to mark the paroxysms^