ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. 453 could be detected, nor any respiration or action of the heart. The skin was cold. Each of the men had passed an abundant semifluid evacua- tion, of a brownish-yellow colour. Cold affusions, washing with vinegar, and frictions with brushes, were first used, without success. After a venisection the man who was the last to become insensible gave the first signs of life. The pulse and respiration became perceptible. The secretions from the mouth and nose, expelled with a hissing sound, smelt strongly of petroleum, and attacks of choking, coughing, and hiccough, came on. Irritation of the pharynx caused the ejection of a quantity of grayish-white mucus. After half an hour consciousness began gradually to return. Pneumonia on the right side appeared in the further course of the case, but quickly terminated in resolution. In the other patient (the one who first became insensible) no sign of life made its appearance till half an hour, in spite of the continued use of cold affusion, frictions, and artificial respiration. Exactly the same symptoms occurred as in the case first described, except that recovery was somewhat slower. At the end of four days both men were well. The effects produced in these cases were very similar to those caused by the inhalation of coal-gas or of the fire-damp of mines, which the vapour of petroleum also resembles in its chemical composition. NitriU of Amyl.—Dr. "W. Richardson has investigated the physiolo- gical action of this substance ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, 2, p. 334), and read a paper upon the subject at the meeting of the British Asso- ciation. Its effects appear to be the same whether it is administered by the stomach, skin, or lungs, or even if it be directly introduced into the tissues by inoculation. It causes first violent action of the heart, with dilatation of the capillaries, and afterwards diminished power of the heart and contraction of the extreme vessels. In some of tbe lower animals, such as frogs, it suspends animation, inducing a state of trance, from which recovery may, however, take place imder favorable circumstances. In warm-blooded animals, in which the circulatory and respiratory systems are more complicated, and in which the skin, being less permeable, does not admit the spontaneous evaporation of the poison, the nitrite cannot actually stop the movements of respiration and circulation without destroying life; but even in these animals a condition of trance, lasting many hours, may be induced. This agent is not an anajsthetic; it does not destroy consciousness, except as a prelude to death. Dr. Richardson suggests the employment of nitrite of amyl in cases of tetanus. Nitro-glycerine.—Prof. Albers has made a series of experiments with this substance ('Deut. Klin.,' 1864, p. 405). His conclusions are as follows:—I. Nitro-glycerine belongs to the active poisons, which pro- duce their full effects within a few minutes. Its action on frogs is in- termediate between that of strychnia and that of caft'ein. 2. In warm- blooded animals it produces effects like those of hydrocyanic acid. Its action is exerted chiefly upon the brain and spinal cord, and less upon those parts which are presided over by the sympathetic nerve. The heart is only so far affected that its action ceases somewhat earlier, and its chambers are somewhat less full of blood than when death occurs in a natural way. The hearts of decapitated frogs beat much longer