141 RESPIRATOUY SySTEM. I not only palliate the sufferings of the patient, but prolong life. (6) The removal of the tube must not be attempted so long as pus con- j tinues to bo secreted ; but when this has ceased the tube may be with- drawn. If the tube appear to be keeping up the discharge, it may be i replaced by silk thread, so as to keep the opening patulous, and allow fluids to escape. The threads also afford an easy means of reintroducing I the tube, if this should become requisite. Keeuser, BoucnuT.— On Tuberculosis of the Bronchial Glands. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. lai, p. 176. Kreuser states that tuberculous enlargement of the bronchial glands , may occur as an idiopathic disease in adults, though it is not nearly so ' frequent in them as in children. Tuberculosis of the lungs, or of other organs, may either be absent or too slight to cause death. ('"Wurtemb. , Corr. Blatt.,' xxxiii, 16, 1863). Bouchut considers tuberculosis of the 1' bronchial glands to be very rare as a primary aff'ection, and generally to occur secondarily to similar disease of the lungs. When the glands I attain a very large size they may compress the bronchi and great ; vessels, displace the oesophagus, and irritate the vagi nerves. Com- ' pression of the superior cava and pulmonary artery may cause oedema of the face, distension of the superficial cervical veins, epistaxis, and hfemoptysis. The occurrence of asthmatic paroxysms without any discoverable disease of the heart or lungs is a very significant symptom of the probable existence of bronchial tuberculosis. Weakening of the vesicular murmur over one of the lobes of the lungs, attended with duluess in the sternal region, indicates compression of a bronchus. Death is apt to be produced by haemoptysis or suff"ocation, but recovery is possible (' Gaz. des Hopit., 108, 109, 1863). Cotton, E. P. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 25), gives a summary of his I observations during 5 years on the treatment of phthisis by different therapeutic agents. Each substance was tried with 25 patients. Phosphorus, in the form of phosphoretted oil, produced considerable improvement in 4, slight in 5, none in 16. Liquor jDotassae gave, as cor- responding numbers, i, 2, and 23. Hydrochloric acid 11, 6, and 8. Iodide of iron 10,4, and 11. Iodide of potassium 6,5, and 14. Chloride of sodium 8, 6, and 11. Vinum Ferri 13, 3, and 9. Grlycerine 4, 2, and 19. Scsquichloride of iron 12, 5, and 8. Chlorate of potash 5, 4, and 16. Quinine 7, 5, and 13. Phosphoric acid 3, 8, and 14. Cotton's general conclusions are—(i) that none of these agents deserves the title of specific; (2) that the good produced by them is due to their tonic influence ; (3) in the majority of cases steel, especially Tr. Perrr Sesquichl., and the mineral acids, appear to be most effective ;' (4) since, jhowever, these as well as other useful tonics are undoubtedly inert in la certain proportion of cases, it is not improbable that there are varieties or modifications of phthisis, each of which may require a par- ticular treatment, according to the analogy of many other diseases. Cotton anticipates that observation and experiment will show that under certain, at present obscure, conditions of system phthisis assumes