401 CANCEU OF THE UTEEUS. culum in such cases, for the disease is well marked and evident by digital examination, and, independently of the prol'use haemorrhage which gene- rally results, traction of the vagina with the friable tissue may not unlikely result in perforation of the bladder or rectum. 2. —Dr. Barnes relates a series of cases of cancer of the cervix uteri, with systemic injection, of which the following is a good example. A woman let. 45 had borne nine children, the last six years ago. Menstruates regularly, but has had repeated floodings during the last nine months. Complexion of a deep-straw colour. Vomiting incessant for four days before admission. Scirrhus of the cervix far advanced. A tense swelling of the right leg appeared a few days back. She had always had venectasis during pregnancy, but this had diminished greatly since the floodings. Bismuth and cyanide of potassium were prescribed with good effect. Irritative cough followed, the cervical glands became enlarged; the left elbow became swollen, red, and shiny. She was unable to extend the arm fully, and had a burning sensation in it. Cod-liver oil and h}'drochloric acid were now given, and in a week the swelling in the arm had gone down, and she was much better and stronger. Nodular swellings, with indu- ration of the glands and surrounding cellular tissues, were observed in the other cases. They appear to prove that cancerous matter finds its way into the circulation from the primary uterine cancer, by absorption into the veins and lymphatics. The matter thus carried into the blood in the form of emboli or septic fluid may give rise to—(i) Minute peripheral thromboses, (a) As emboli or irritating ichor, may cause larger thrombi in the large veins. (3) The cells, granules, or ichor, taken into the lymphatics and arrested in the glands, cause the knots and tumours seen in these cases. The good effect of cod-liver oil in arresting the general break-down of the system, and the further extension of the primary cancer, with diminution of the exhausting hsemorrhages, is very marked in these and similar cases. 3. —In Prof. Habit's case, the patient, set. 53, had borne two children, the last 17 years ago. Menstruation appeared at 18 and ceased at 46, but 4 years after this hfemorrhage came on, and recurred regularly at monthly intervals. This was moderate in amount, and her health was not at first aff'ected. In the intervals there was a profuse offensive and shredd}- discharge, with frequent micturition. Two months before admission into the Imperial Hospital of Vienna, prol'use haemorrhage occurred, and at the same time she suffered from lumbar and hypogastric pains. Sleepless, emaciated, and enfeebled, she was at length unable to leave her bed. The vagina was filled with large granulations and fungous growths, the vaginal portion was fissured, the cervix funnel-shaped, and its surface soft and ulcerated, while the uterus itself was fixed. From the great tendency to haemorrhage, the examination with the speculum was omitted. A pro- fuse, thin, and most offensive ichorous discharge was constant. The diagnosis was ulcerating medullary carcinoma of the uterus and vagina. The treatment was merely directed to relieve the symptoms. Gradually, however, the general health improved, and pain and discharge ceased. Seven weeks after admission, examination per vaginam disclosed a solid cicatrizing mass filling up the vagina. This mass consisted of easily bleeding, normal, and healthy granulations. No opening could bo 26