NERVOUS SYSTEM. 91 relation existing between these convulsive movements and the site of the clot ? Of the 7 cases the clot was in contact with the meninges in 3, in one of which the crura cerebri and pons, and in another one of the lateral ventricles, were implicated. In 2 the clots were situated in the substance of the hemispheres ; in i the hasmorrhage was in tlie corpus striatum opening into the ventricle; and in the other the clot was in the centre of the cerebellum, near its root. _ These movements seem generally to occur when the hajmorrhage is either in contact with the membra'nes on the surface of the brain, or where these extend into the ventricles, or with some of the ganglia at the base. They seldom occur when the clot is situated in the substance of the cerebral hemis])heres, unless there be extensive softening or breaking down of the tissues around, as was noted in the above t^o cases. Of 6 cases, in 2 the con- vulsive movements were on the same side of the body as the clot in the brain ; in 2 the clot was on one side of{the brain, while the paralysis was general; and in the other 2 the clot was on both sides of the brain and the convulsions were general. It seems to be the prevailing rule that, when the lesiou is confined to one side of the brain, the con- vulsions are eitlier general or on the same side of the body—seldom on the opposite side alone. In all the cases except one there existed soften- ing around a recent clot or old clots and cysts. Biffiditi/was observed in 5 cases, and in all of them this symptom was continuous. It supervened in some cases in 4 hours; one patient died in 2 hours after seizure, and another in 6 hours. It almost always affects the parts paralysed. This symptom was associated in all the cases with a clot in one of the cerebral ganglia, and in all the cases except one the structure around the clot was softened or broken down. Tetanic spasms were noted in 3 cases, each attack being of short duration. They were general in all the cases, and accompanied with rigidity, or rather this symptom was observed in all the cases during the intervals of the spasms. Of all symptoms this is the most fatal, none of the cases surviving more than 6 hours, and one proving fatal in a few minutes after the supervention of this symptom. In the latter the parts around the clot were healthy; it was a case of small amount of effusion into both lateral ventricles, issuing from a large dilated vessel in the taenia semicircularis ; in the other two there was softening around the clot. Alterations of sensi- hility.—Cutaneous ancesthesia and paralysis generally coexisted. In consequence of the frequent existence of coma in these cases it was difficult and indeed sometimes impossible to decide upon the presence or absence of this lesion of sensibility. In all those cases in which this symptom is noted it always existed in those parts which had lost their power of motility. In a few instances, however, where paralysis existed, anaesthesia was absent throughout. The loss of motion is almost always greater than the loss of sensibility. In those cases in which both symptoms coexisted in an equal degree anaesthesia was tlie first to pass off. This seems to point out that greater pressure is required upon a nervous centre to cause ana3sthe8ia than to cause paralysis. Of the mucous membranes, that of the eyes was most frequently affected with loss of sensibility. Occasionally the conjunctiva oecomes so in. sensible that the escito-motory action of the eyelids is completely