I(t TIEVOHT ON IMiACTICAI, MKDICIXE, Ascni^, II.—Jiccrnl conlrihulions lo our Iniowhdqr. of Olmulcrii an occurrint) in Man. Schmidt's .Tahrb., vol. 121, p. 241, "V. AVAirL, E.—On the Purulent Diathesis and Snpiic Infection. Petersb. Med. Ztscln-., v, p. 321, 1863. Schmidt's Jiihrb., vol. 123, p. 42. Wiihl understands by the term jjurulent diatliesis every disturbance of the general system, whicli is brouglit abont by a local suppuration of long duration conjoined with fever, and which is characterised by great depression of the general nutrition, and by a diminished resistance of the tissues to local or general irritants. Septic infection he defines as the general disorder, which is induced by the absorption of putrid matter from a wound, or an inflammatory focus, and announces itself by the affection of the seusorium, the violent continuous fever, the im- plication of the intestinal canal, and a rapid course of a certain cyclical type. When there is a disproportion between the supplies to and the evacuations from the body, a slight, often a mere mechanical, impulse is sufficient to transform the purulent diathesis into the metastasic dyscrasia. The metastases (metastatic abscesses.—Ed.) are in no way characteristic of the febrile forms of self-infection, they form only complications of the general disorder, which gives them their stamp, and they originate certainly for the most part from purely local causes. So also in septic infection the metastases are only accidental phenomena, but they present for the most part the character of a saniating gangrenous inflammation. The author relates 20 cases, from which it appeare that not only exhausting suppurations, but also other processes seriously im- pairing the life of the blood, as the typhous miasm, may produce the essential condition of weakness; and further, that also a moderate amount of fever which does not cause exhaustion, gives vise to the secondary disorders. The cases show further that there are mixed forms of the two conditions described above, in which metastatic abscesses occur conjoined with all the signs of septic infection. The relative frequency of metastatic abscesses in the liver is very remarkable; the author believes the cause to be a peculiar predisposition of this organ induced "bj brandy-drinking. The commencement of such abscesses is not always announced by rigors, sometimes on the contrary it is marked by intense septic fever. As already remarked, septic infection ordinarily runs its course without metastatic abscesses; this may be specially observed in the progressive subcutaneous sanious suppurations of the areolar tissue, termed by Pirogoft' acute purulent oedema. These arise often after apparently unimportant injuries, a contusion or a small punctured wound, and often also Avith the signs of a pseudo-erysipelas, mostly affecting tlic arms and legs; they destroy the areolar tissue and skin with extraordinary rapidity, and cause death either in the few first days (the 5th to the iith), or at a later period by exhaustion after the septic symptoms have disappeared. AVahl ascribes the occurrence of these disorders rather to epidemic influences than to hospital atmosphere. No treatment of any avail has yet been discovered; camphor, acids, and the sulphites proposed by Polli are inefficacious. Early incisions can be of no use as tlie diseased parts are not under the fascia); at a later period, however, incisions should