REPORT ON MIDWll'lORY, OTf. 360 .3-—Di'- A. lli'giir remarks on tlie inaccuracy of our kuowledgc in reference to the patliology of abortion, premature birtlis, premature detachment of tlie placenta, &c., and points out some of the causes of tliis, of wliicli the greatest is the diiliculty of obtaining tlie whole of the structures, and hence the impossibility of distinguishing between primary and secondary aifections. The early abortions of the fourth or fifth week are very often overlooked, or confounded with other morbid conditions. The so-called lucmorrhagic metritis often arises from retention of some of the ovum-remnants after miscarriage. So that if with au abortion, large portions of the decidua (vera or reflexa) be missing, hajmorrhage will probably follow. He submits the fol- lowing as the results of his examination of various ova expelled at different periods of gestation:—(i) The glands of the decidua vera are found up to the fourth month of pregnancy as simple, undivided canals, provided with well-preserved epithelium, situated as thread- like formations upon the rough surfece of the membranes detached during the abortion. In the serotina the glands were to be discovered in the vicinity of the placental edge up to the third month. (2) In the fifth and sixth mouths the glands were found existing in the same external form. They were less thickly set. The wall was formed by fibres branching out with inlaid nuclei. The contents showed no distinct epithelium. These consisted of a molecular mass, broken up for the most part, with numerous scattered nuclei. As, however, only decidua?, with advanced jiremature fatty metamorphoses, were exa- mined, and inasmuch as the existence of young gland-canals in the middle period of pregnancy were seen by Coste, Kobin, and Kilian, it is probable that perfect, well-preserved glands exist in the vera in the fifth and sixth month also. (3) In the middle layer of the vera the glands run in spiral coils, like the sweat-glands. (4) In that layer of the raucous membrane ■which lies next to the free surface the presence and course of the glands is most diflicult to recognise. (5) The mucous membrane of the uterus separates itself in abortion, or through artificial detachment, in sections of very difi'erent thickness, even in the same period of pregnancy. (6) The hydrorrhea gravidarum depends upon a hypertrophic condition of the uterine mucous membrane with hyperasmia. The glands especially are very numerous and large. The copious efl\isions are explained by this anatomical condition. (7) The decidua vera is to be regarded, even in and after the middle of pregnancy, as a secreting organ, exercising functions. In favour of this view are the gradations from the small degrees of hydrorrhea and the false waters even up to the most developed forms. Two cases are related, in each of which ha>morrhages alternated witli or coincided with the discharge of water.