llEPOUT ON PUYSIOLOO-V. 6 malformation occurs. In natural incubation M. Dareste observes tlie warmth is applied directly from above. He found that heat applied to single points of eggs which had been coated with wax caused the wax to melt in circular and not in irregular forms. The abnormal development, therefore, is not due to unequal conduction. (' Comptes llend.,' vol. 59.) ' Pliysiological effects of Oxygen.—Demarquay's and Leconte's experi- ments with oxygen were made first on animals. Dogs could bo made to breathe large quantities with no other effect than increased liveliness and appetite. When large wounds were made in the axilljc of the animals there was observed a considerable injection of the vessels of the wound, with the secretion of a clear serous fluid, and on continuing the inhalation of the gas numerous small petechire or ecchymoses formed. The injection of 0 into the veins has similar effects. If the injection were made into the vena portte, or into the vena cava below the liver, a considerable quantity of 0 could bo introduced into the blood without ill effects. Two litres—nearly 2 quarts—did not cause death. No alteration ensued in the colour of the blood, the spleen alone assumed a scarlet hue; all tiie veins of the abdomen were turgid, as if the mass of the blood had been increased by the injection. In respect to the changes in the organism from the respiration of O, it was found, from experiments on rabbits— (i) That these animals can live from 14 to 17 hours in pure oxygen. (2) That when death occurred the muscular system was unusually engorged with blood, and had assumed a peculiarly rosy tint. (3) That the ordinary difference in colour between arterial and venous blood, contrary to the opinion of Broughton, was perfectly well marked. (4) That, contrary to Beddoes' statement, no organ, however vascular, was inflamed or gangrenous. In the human subject, when O was applied to old or recent wounds it excited only a feeling of slight tickling or burning ; in healthy wounds the pus became less in quantitj'^ and thicker, and the granulations appeared smaller and gray in colour. But after repeated applications they again became red and turgescent, and active inflammation ensued, with increased suppui'ation. Injection of 0 into cavities with a mucous or serous lining produced the same sensations; in one case a hydrocele was cured by it. Various sick and healthy persons inspired O for several weeks to the extent of i_5 to 30 quarts a day, without injury. A little feeling of warmth in the throat or in the chest, and sometimes a slight degree of confusion or headache, are the sensations first excited; the pulse becomes more powerful, and in many cases slower; often there ensues on prolonged use a feeling of improved health and increased appetite. These good effects, however, did not occur in persons exhausted by prolonged diseases and in their case after some days effects similar to those produced by O on wounds became perceptible. The direct effect of 0 on the congested or inflamed tissues surrounding wounds or ulcers is very marked; the redness is rajiidly removed, as also is frequentlj'^ the red ring which surrounds eczema. The indications for the emplo^-mcnt of 0 in disease are chiefly anremia, whether in surgical cases or in cachectic conditions, such as syphilis, diabetes, cancer; the contra-indications are—(i) fever, with the exception of certain special diatheses, as croup, e.g.; (2) deep- seated abscesses, or lesions of internal oi'gans, (3) ; diseases of the heart