370 UErOKT ON MIDWIFEEY, ETC. couut tlie diiignosis of the iuflected uterus is only possible before the begiuuing of the abortion, or some time after its completion. 3. The abortion is not caused by the flexion of the uterus ou itself, but by the accompanying version of this organ. 4. The treatment, therefore, during i)regiiancy must be directed against the ante- or retro-version. 5. In the third month the fundus uteri reaches above the level of the pelvic brim. 6. Dissection of the uterus in women who have suf- I'ercd from flexion always shows chronic hyperemia, aflecting the mucous membrane and parenchyma, and the hypera;mia is much increased by pregnancy, the return of venous blood is impeded, and congestion thus results. Tiiis is probably the proximate cause of abortion. MISSED LABOUE. McClintock, Dr., "Observations on Missed Labour" ('Dublin Quart. Jour.,' Feb. and May, 1864). — Under the term "missed labour " have been classed certain very rare cases of utei-ine pregnancy in which, through failure of parturient action, the foetus has been retained in utero for some indefinite period beyond the term of normal gestation. Very few undoubted instances of this occurrence have been recorded, and in every case the foetus has apparently been dead at the time when labour should have taken place, and the liquor amnii has generally escaped at this time, or previously. All the cases have been very similar in their general features, though differing in detail. If, as usually happens, the membranes have been ruptured about the period at which labour should occur, a profuse putrid discharge soon follows, and continues for months or years, until all the soft parts of the fostus have been decomposed and expelled. During this period, pelvic or uterine inflammation, or symptoms of general septicaemia, may result. In one case, i-elated by Voudcrfer, after the lapse of eleven years from the time of expected labour, the woman died with symptoms of purulent infection. After death, the remains of a putrid foetus were found in utcro. In some very rare cases, where the membranes have not rup- tured and the entrance of air has been prevented, the foetus appears to have been retained many years without undergoing any marked decom- position. In one case, related by Dr. Cheston (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1814), the ftetus was perfectly preserved for Jifiy-two years. The whole of the foetal bones are A'ery rarely expelled by the uterus. They are either encysted 01 masse and retained in ulcro, as in tlie case last mentioned, or the uterus relieves itself by ulceration, as in Dr. Oldham's case. The duration of life, dating from the time when labour should have occurred, has varied in eleven cases from three months to 52 ye.irs. In the treatment. Dr. McCliutock urges the importance of early .and gradual removal of the foetal remains after dilatation of the os, and cites a case, reported by Schulz, in which a woman underwent a series of operations at the end of ten years from the time Avhen labour was missed, by which one hundred and twenty pieces of bones were removed from the uterus, with.a successful result. Any operation would, how-