HEPORT on PEACl'ICAL MEDICINE. 86 the new^ cells formed in their iuterlor are greatly multiplied, and iuatcad of being collected merely in clusters at the spots which correspond to the original bodies or central parts of the corpuscles, they extend in rows along the interior of tlie dilated anastomosing processes. At a still later period the i)roliferatiou of the nuclei has increased to such an extent, and the new cells formed are so numerous, that the part seems to be altogetlier composed of these new productions, and all trace of their mode of origin is lost. In the inflamed peritoneum the results of observation were similar. Turner states in conclusion, that the general result arrived at from these and most other recent researches on the inflammatory process is that an explanation of its phenomena is not to be looked for by referring them to actions of tlie extreme vessels, but to a disturbance of the forces v.'hich naturally exist in the extra-vascular portions of the inflamed part. (Groodsir.) Smolee, M.—On the dit/ration of some acute diseases, their lethality, and complications. Wien. Zeitschr. i8, 3, p. 151, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 131, p. 233. Smith, E.—Lancet, April 2. In the dietetic treatment of eases of undue spareness of habit, when the object is to increase the bulk of the body, Smith recommends—(i) quietude and mental repose; (2) where there is excitability of the system and general frequency of pulse, prolongation of the hours of sleep, and restraining of bodily exertion; (3) where the vital functions are not actively performed, the assimilation of food must be promoted by increased bodily activity, and the use of highly nitrogenized food ; (4) to supply any deficiency of heat of body by abundant clothing, by the direct application of heat to the skin, through the medium of air or water, and if necessary by lessening the action of the skin by inunction or by saline solutions; (/j) to increase the activity of the digestive process if necessary by food highly nitrogenized, by exertion, and by the inspiration of pure air ; (6) to supply an increased quantity of fatty aa well as nitrogenized foods in combination. Milk in small quantities should be cooked and given at each meal, and in daily quantities of a pint and a half to 3 pints. "Whenever milk is disliked as an article of food, it may be readily taken if given in small quantities when hot, made into puddings, or prepared with chocolate, .coffee, or other foods; (7) alcohols (and particularly good and somewhat new ale) are most powerful agents when given in quantities of ale of half a pint to a jiint and a half daily. Rum taken with milk is the most powerful restoratiA-e and promoter of assimilation and alimentation that we possess. He records a case in which the emaciation was extreme, the limbs cold, with numerous patches of livid discoloration and blisters of the skin. The pulse was very feeble, thready, and not above 50 per minute; the I'espiratory movements exceedingly feeble, and the chest very flat. The appetite was so reduced, that for many weeks she liad not taken more than 2 oz. of bread or biscuit, 2 oz. of milk, and f of an ounce of cooked meat daily. The only cause of the disorder seemed to be the occurrence of measles 10 moutlis previously, since which time she had