HEI'ORT on PRACriCAL MEDICIXE. 68 perienco oi" Delasiauve, in which epileptiform attaclcs were constantly preceded by an excessively olfensivo odour, soon followed by trembling of the limbs on the right side of the body, and next by total loss of sensi- bility. Jackson says, in some cases of plugging of the left middle cerebral artery there is another symptom : (i) loss of smell as well as (2) paralysis of the right arm and leg, and (3) defect of speech. Jackson has had under his care a boy whose fits always begin by a disagreeable smell (i), he is then insensible, convulsed on the right side (2), and when he comes to himself he is unable to talk intelligibly for half an hour. A case of embolism iu which (i) smell, (2) power on the right side, and (3) speech were lost, has been recorded by Dr. Fletcher, of Manchester (Brit. Med. Journ., April 30); and Jackson has now under his care several cases in which these three defects exist together. In one of them there is valvular disease ; and in that case at least it is probable that the left middle cerebral artery is plugged. It is quite clear that the boy's defects are analogous, except that they are slighter and very transient. Instead of (1) loss of smell, he has temporary disorder of that function; instead of (2) j^aralysis of the right arm and leg, he has convulsive move- ments of those limbs ; instead of (3) loss of speech he has defect of speech. When we further consider that the left middle cerebral artery supplies (i) the roots of the olfactory bulb, (2) the corpus striatum, and (3) the hemispheres, we can readily understand how the three strangely associated symptoms sliould occur together in plugging of that vessel, and I submit that temporary spasm of the vessels in that arterial region would account for the 3 temporary symptoms in epileptiform seizures. Although the olfactory bulb, the motor centre for the arm and leg, and the seat of the faculty of language, have no relationship of function, yet being bound together by an artery, they have a relation by community of nutrition; and hence we understand how the three suffer very often together in disease. EusSELli, Jas., M.D. Cases of hemiplegia ivith Loss of Speech. Brit. Med. Journ., July 23, Aug. 20. IViLKS, S., M.D.—Abstract of clinical lecture on a case of Loss of Speech and Paralysis in an hi/sterical wotnan. Cure hy moral treat- ment. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. 3. E. P—, Eet. 22, admitted May 30; eighteen months before, without any previous symptoms of hysteria or emotional excitement, she lost speech in the night. At the same time she became unable to sit up, and has been speechless, and has kept her bed ever since. She communicates her wishes by writing, and can make signs readily. She seems to be quite intelligent, understands what is said, and replies well by writing. She can use her arms, and passes most of her time in embroidery. On June 9, under some little exercise, and the fear of galvanism, she said yes and no in a whisper. To give the result shortly this patient without any drugs became quite well and was discharged. She spoke perfectly, and moved her limbs well. It was impossible to ascertain whether she was menstruating when she lost speech, but before and since there was no disorder of that function. Dr. Wiiks remarked on the uselcssness of