264 UKPOUT ON SUIIGEIIY. pass from the inferior thyroid into the supra-scapular and trans, colli, as that would be one of the principal means for the establisliment of the collateral circulation. " Thus far everything promises success, and now the formation of the distal subclavian clot alone remains to be considered. The amount of space aflbrded by these additional ligatures, is much greater than has ever been obtained by any previous operation. It includes all that exists between the ligature and the sup. intercostal, which, as has been shown, arises within the scalenus in only 24 out of 158 cases—i in 6^. This amounts to —14 inch. Can a clot form in this space? By referring to the statistics of tlie length of the innominate, it will be seen that in. more than half the cases it was less than one and a half inch, and yet after its ligature a proximal clot formed in three out of four cases. If, then, a clot will form in an artery so large and so un- favorably situated for such a result, we ought surely to expect it in an ai-tery so much smaller as the subclavian. Suppose now the branches of the subclavian are not normal, what will be the eflect ? They will arise within, beneath, or beyond the scalenus. If they arise within, they can easily be secured. If they arise beneath or beyond, they will have no effect in preventing the formation of a proximal subclavian clot." Ligature of innominate, carotid, vertel)ral,Sfc.—" This operation is the same as the last, excepting that a ligature is applied to the innominate instead of the subclavian. The objections to this are two. ist. The difficulty of applying such a ligature. 2nd. The chance of a proximal clot not forming. The difficulty cannot be very great, as the artery has been tied thirteen times, and in four other cases the artery has been exposed, but the operation abandoned fo? other causes. It could easUy have been tied in Parker's case. The chance of a proximal clot not forming is a more cogent reason. I do not, however, think that need be feared, and for reasons already given under previous heads. The advantages are:— X. A clot is almost certain to form in the subclavian, between its origin and the first pervious branch (sup. intercostal), extending thence into the innominate and carotid. 2. If for any reason the vertebral could not be ligated, or it should hereafter prove that its ligation is unsuccessful, there would still be room for a distal clot. 3. If the subclavian were found diseased more internally than was supposed, a more healthy artery, or rather a different artery, would be ligated. 4. The innominate is not in such close relation with important structures as is the subclavian, where the ligature is applied, e.y. the pneumogastric, sympathetic, pleura, &c. Tlie above operation is one of my own proposal; at least, I have not heard it mentioned by any one." D. L. Boqers, case of successful ligature of the intwminata (' Ainer. Med. Tim.,'- 1864, ii, pO-—^'ho subject was a mulatto man of 33 years of age ; the tumour was large, with a strong pulsation. On tlie 15th May, 1864, Dr. A. AV. Smith, of New Orleans, applied a ligature to the arteria iniiominata, and to the right carotid about one inch above