llEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 92 abolished, bo that the finger can be passed over the anterior surface of the eyeball without causing the least movement of the lid, and without the patient evincing the least indication of pain. This is a very grave symptom, and the patients who present it to a great degree almost always die. Sometimes anrostliesia is confined to one eye, which is generally tlie one corresponding to the side of the face paralysed. Alterations of the special senses.—Amaurosis was noted in two cases only, in one of whicii the lesion was in the pia mater and in the cor- responding cortical substance of botli hemispheres. This case tends to show that loss of sight is not always due to pressure upon the tuber- cula quadrigemina. Very probably it was due in this instance to irri- tation transmitted from the seat of the clot to some parts of the nervous apparatus of vision. In the other case there was sullicient haemorrliage, and that in the central ganglia at the base of the brain, to account for the amaurosis by pressure on the tubercula quadrigemina or optic tracts. Amaurosis is a symptom more frequently attending cases of softening, abscess, or tumours of the brain, than of hajmorrbage. Deafness and tinnitus aurium are not mentioned in any of the histories. Alterations of intellicjence.—In the majority of cases the intellect was perfectly clear up to the time of the attack ; or if altered, the change was so transient as to escape obsei-vation; but in some cases certain alterations were noted, as drowsiness, loss of memory, <fec. At the time the hscmorrbage supervened three conditions of tbe intelligence were observed—(i) The loss of consciousness Avas complete. This occurred in 68"4 per cent. (2) Consciousness was but partially abolished. This occurred in 31'5 per cent. (3) Lastly, the intelligence was perfectly clear, although in the cases in which this state was observed there existed complete hemiplegia. The chief cause of these differences in the state of the intelligence was the extent of the effusion. The site of the hajmorrhage seems to have influenced the state of con- sciousness but little. Generally, however, the coma is less deep where the clot is situated in or about the ganglia at the base than when it occurs near the surface of the hemispheres ; for it is interesting to note that, of the 38 cases in which the intelligence was more or less im- paired, the principal site of the htemorrhage was in the arachnoid cavity in 14, and in all these but one consciousness was completely abolished. Again, of the 14 cases there was no paralysis in 9, and of these tbe hoemorrhage was entirely confined to the arachnoid in 4; in 5 there existed partial paralysis, but there was lesion in other parts besides the arachnoid in all but one. In most of the cases the coma continued until death, an event which very rapidly supervened. Occasionally, however, the patients lapsed from a state of complete coma into that of partial unconsciousness. In others, again, consciousness was completely re-established, but their memory wasfeeble,and some becamequite cliildish in their manner, even shedding tears on being talked to. Most of these cases marked by improvement were seized by other attacks, of which they died. As to the relation of consciousnoes to paralysis, Jones finds that of the 26 cases of complete unconsciousness there coexisted complete paraly- sis in 8, partial paralysis in 8, and no paralysis in 9; of the 12 cases of partial loss of consciousness, there coexisted complete paralysis in 2,