REPORT TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. BT C. HILTON EAGGE, M.D., DEilOIiSTEATOB OF AlfATOMY AND LEOTTJEEE ON EXPEEIMENTAL PHILOSOPHY AT GTJy'S HOSPITAL; PHYSICIAN TO THE EOYAL INPIEMAEY FOE THE DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. GENEBAL THEKAPEUTICS. Ik a work entitled ' Stimulants and Narcotics, their Mutual Rela- tions' (1864, Macmillan & Co.), Dr. Anstie endeavours to attach a more precise signification to these terms. He first gives an historical account of the various meanings under which the word " stimulation" has been used by different writers, in which he shows that the ordinary- classification of remedies is based on metaphysical theories which will not stand the test of investigation at the j^resent day. He then pro- ceeds to criticise the diiferent phenomena which have been regarded as proofs of the operation of a stimulus upon the organism. He thinks that the mental excitement produced by certain substances is not caused by stimulation of the brain, but is rather due to a poisonous and depressing action on the intellect, by which its control over the emo- tional and appetitive part of the mind is diminished. 'J'aking neuralgia as a typical form, he shows that pain and increased sensibility are likewise effects of depressed vitality rather than of stimulation, and that this is true also of convulsive movements and of excessive secretion. The causes of acceleration of the pulse are next considered. He believes that when this is slight, and when the strength of the heart's action is at the same time maintained or increased, it is to be regarded as an effect of stimulation; but that too great rapidity always implies debility. Excess of formative action and of nutrition are equally far from being caused by stimuli. Having thus cleared tlie ground, Dr. Anstie then proceeds in the endeavour to reconstruct a theory of stimulation on a firmer basis. He quotes John Hunter's definition of stimuli as " agents which increase some natural action or tendency, as opposed to irritants, which produce 27