RESPIEATION. free 0. As the scarlet cruorine is gradually reduced, oxidizing thereby a 16 by absorption from the air. Tlie name litematin being appropriated to the product of the decomposition of the colouring matter, Prof. Stokes pro- poses to call the unaltered substance cruorine, and terms its two forms scarlet criiorme and purple cruorine respectively. _ The change of colour from arterial to venous blood, as far as it goes, is in the direction of the change from scarlet to purple cruorine ; and since scarlet cruorine, even in the cold, is capable of reduction by sub.stanees present in the blood, and the action of reducing agents upon it is greatly assisted by warmth, vye have every reason to believe that a portion of the cruorine present in venous blood exists in the state of purple cruorine, and is reoxidized iu passing through the lungs. Carbonic acid acts on iha blood as if it were a reducing agent. The change of colour produced by it is not a strict eflect of its presence, but is a consequence of the removal of oxygen. (Magnus removed as much as lo or 12 per cent, by volume of 0 from arterialized blood by shaking it with CO.^.) There is this difference between COg and the real reducing agents—that the former no longer acts on a dilute and comparatively pure solution of cruorine, while the latter act just as before. The brightened colour of the blood on the addition of salts and the darkening on the addition of water are due, not to altered form of the corpuscles, but to altered refractive power, leading to an in- creased or diminished reflection of light at their surface. Connecting his observations with A. Schmidt's statements respecting the presence of ozone in the blood ('XJeber Ozon im Blute,' Dorpat, 1862), Stokes observes that there is no proof of ozone, properly so called, being contained in blood, for all attempts to obtain from it an oxidizing gas have failed. But Schmidt has entirely proved the pi'esence in the blood of a substance capable of producing certain oxidizing effects, and this substance is connected with the colouring matter. In cruorine we have a substance admitting of easy oxidation and reduction ; and connecting this with Schmidt's results, we may infer that scarlet cruorine is not merely a greedy absorber and a carrier of oxygen, but also an oxidizing agent, and that it is by its means that the substances which enter the blood from the food, setting aside those which are either assimilated or excreted by the kidneys, are reduced to the ultimate forms of CO2 and water, as if they had been burnt in .0. An experiment made by Stokes offei's a remarkable parallel to the physio- logical process. When an alkaline tartaric solution of the protoxide of tin is added in moderate quantity to a solution of scarlet cruorine the latter is presently reduced. If the solution is now shaken with air the cruorine is almost instantly oxidized, as is shown by the colour of the solution and its spectrum by transmitted light. On standing for a little time, a couple of minutes or so, the cruorine is again reduced, and the solution may be made to go through these changes a great number of times, though, of course, not indefinitely, as the tin in time becomes com- l)letcly oxidized. It thus appears that purple cruorine absoi'bs_/ree oxygen with much greater avidity than the tin solution, notwithstanding that the oxidized cruorine is itself reduced by the tin salt. Thus, probably, the purple cruorine of the veins is oxidized during the time, brief thou"-h it may be, during which it is exposed to the air iu the lungs, while tlie sub- stances derived i'rom the Ibod may have little disposition to combine with