196 llEPORT ON SUEGERY. covered with Mucediuea, Bacteria, and Monads, and were filled with moving Vibrios. Each form of fermentation or decomposition is associated with the growth and development of some low form of vegetable or animal life. It had long been known that the yeast formed in brewing beer was an organized substance, living, and formed by a mass of cells capable of reproduction by budding; but it was left for" M. Pasteur to show that the cells of the yeast really nourish themselves at the expense of the sugary infusion, and transform it, not by a physical or chemical, but by a physio- logical action ; that some substances added to the infusion favour the budding and multiplication of the yeast, others retard, others altogether arrest it—like the albumen of fresh eggs, which kills it, or acts on it as a poison. When alcohol is transformed into acetic acid, a vegetable Myco- derm {Ilyeoderma aceti) is the agent of the transformation. When sugar or lactic acid is converted into butyric acid, the agent is not a vegetable, but a small animalcule, seen in the form of small cylinders or rods, isolated or united into chains of many links, which turn, undulate, and float in every direction in the liquids, and are reproduced by fission. The most remarkable property of these Vibrios is that they have the power of living and indefinitely multiplying themselves without oxygen. Not only can they live without air, but air kills them. This peculiarity essentially dis- tinguishes the Mycoderms from the Vibrios. The Mycoderms incessantly feed on oxygen, and when they do not find it in solutions take it from the atmosphere. The Vibrios are killed by oxygen, yet it is by them that the butyric and tartaric fermentations are efiected. " These are the most simple of the decompositions produced by animal- cules which live without free oxygen. They are phenomena which do not differ from what is called putrefaction of animal substances. In putre- faction, as in the butyric fermentation, the work of the Vibrios is prepared for them by infusoria. In infusions of animal substances no change is observed for about twenty-four hours; then a slight movement may be observed, which is caused by small animalcules—Monas corpmcithm, Sacterium termo—moving in all directions in search of the oxygen in the infusion. If access of air is shut off, the infusoria die as soon as the^"- have consumed all the free oxygen, and fall dead to the bottom of the vessel. But if the infusion is open to the air, they find an inexhaustible supply of oxygen at the surface, when they soon form a pellicle of gradually increasing thickness. But as soon as this living pellicle has been formed, the germs of Vibrios are in their turn fecundated, and these animalcules rapidly multiply in a liquid which contains no oxygen. At the bottom, the Vibrios change the organic matters into substances of more simple composition ; while at the surface the Bacteria and Mucedinea burn these new products with the oxygen which they take from the atmosphere, and reduce them to the state of the most simple binary compounds—water, ammonia, carbonic acid. In the same way, after the death of an animal or human body, the Vibrios and their germs, which have remained in the intestinal canal quite inoffensive so long as the movements and functions of life have prevented their development, commence their office directly after the death of the^ body which they have inhabited. Shut off from oxygen, surrounded by nourishing food, they pass from within outwards.