100 llEroUT ox PKACTICAL iMEDICl.Nl'.. the filkaliiie, saliue, and the bittei* walei-H ; the simple muriated aud the muriatcd lithia waters ; tlie brines ; the iodo-bi'oinatedaud earthy waters ; the inditterent thermal springs, the chalybeates, and the sulphurous waters. Weuek, H.—Notes on the Climate of the Swisn Alj)s, and on some of their Health Itcsorts and Sims. Dublin Quart. Jouru. of Med. Sciences, i'ebruary, May, 1864. Weber notices the meteorology, the physiological, i)athological, and therapeutical influence of the Alpine climate. The following are some of the more important points. The respiratory movements become in- creased in frequency and depth with increasing elevation ; the contrac- tions of the heart become more frequent in proportion to the elevation ; the appetite and thirst are augmented; the sanguification is improved; the nervous system becomes invigorated; the sleep in general more healthy; the activity aud energy of the muscular system become in- creased ; the secretion of the skin is most likely augmented; the urine appears to be not materially altered in quantity, the amount of solids being probably increased slightly; the metamorphosis of tissues is, we may infer, accelerated. The prevalent diseases are the inflam- matory afiections of the respiratory organs, and their results—chronic catarrh, emphysema, and asthma; goitre and cretinism, and scrofu- lous complaints ; rheumatic affections and diseases of the heart; which afiections are in some degree due to the unfavorable hygienic con- ditions in which most of the inhabitants of the Swiss mountains live, while others are dependent upon the meteorological peculiarities of the climate, and especially the unfavorable influences prevalent during the cold seasons. Dr. Brugger, who practises in the Ui)per Engadin (elevated between 5000 and 6000 feet), describes pneumonia and pleuritis as very frequent among his patients—an experience which is shared by almost all the medical men practising in the higher por- tions of Switzerland. The deaths from pneumonia form in some j^arts one third of the entire mortality, according to Lombard. Occasionally a malignant form of pneumonia, or pleuritis, or pleuro-pneumonia, popularly known under the name of Alpenstich, is observed to occur epidemically. Lombard infers that the Alpenstich is sometimes a pleu- ritis, sometimes a pleuro-pneumonia, but always attended with typhoid symptoms of very rapid course, and most frequently fatal termination. In the true Alpine regions tubercular consumption is extremely rare, as also cretinism. The elevation beyond which phthisis becomes rare, or is absent, seems to vary considerably in diflerent latitudes, and to become lower as we proceed toward the poles. In the tropical zone it may be regarded as becoming rare above 7000 feet; in the warmer temperate zone, above 3500 to 5000 feet; in the colder temperate zone, above 1300 to 3000 feet elevation. At Brotterode (1840 feet), in the mountains of Thiiriugen, the per-centage of deaths from phthisis is only -9. Brehmer assures us that in the neighbourhood of Gorbers- dorf, in Silesia (1700 feet), tubercular phthisis has never been seen by him amongst the inhabitants. On the whole, it may be stated that wilh tlie increasing elevation ague, acute diseases of the liver, ha?mor- hoids, diarrhoea and dysentery, yellow fever aud cholera, become much