hepoet on suegeey. 198 after development, multiplication, and' death, may form a putrid infecting ■ matter—or that they may enter tlic blood and develope themselves, efl'ecfc- • ing in the process deadly changes in the circulating fluid. " That these low forms of animal life may seriously affect the blood of the higher orders of animals is clearly proved by the recent researches of Davaine, who has furnished us with the first well-established example of a disease of the blood duo to the presence of inferior beings whicli are capable of development and multiplication in the torrent of the circulation. These creatures {Bacteria) differ from the whole class of infusoria which form in putrefied matter, as they disappear completely as soon as putre- faction of the blood commences. The Bacteria are rapid consumers of oxygen, and when they exist in the blood they absorb the greater portion of the oxygen furnished by respiration, and thus hinder the combustion of all the effete and used-up substances wliich ought to be eliminated from the body. The blood, instead of nourishing the body, nourishes tL parasites. Inoculation of animals with fresh blood which contains them leads to their development in the blood of the inoculated animal, not in any special organ. They consist of minute, straight, extremely fine fila- ments, varying iu length from four to twelve thousandths of a millimetre, and have no spontaneous movement whatever. When the blood putrefies, they become flexed in different directions, and then break up and disappear. " M. Davaine was at first disposed to consider them as belonging to the filiform infusoria, the Bacteria or Vibriones, from which they differed only in the absence of movements. In subsequent observations, however, he found a great number of these corpuscles of far greater length than that assigned to Bacteria or even Vibriones. He now believes that they cannot be propei'ly classed with any of the known species; he considers them to be a well-defined species, resembling the filiform protozoa by their mode of generation and propagation, the filamentous conferva in form, appear- ance, and dimensions, and certain ferments by the phenomena which they induce. M. Davaine proposes to term them provisionally merely bacterides. There are considerable varieties in the size of the bacterides observable, without any condition of the inoculated animals explaining tlie fact. Their number also greatly varies, from myriads found in some instances, to theii' rare occurrence in others. A very peculiar condition in animals affected with carbuncular disease is the disposition which exists for the globules of blood to become agglutinated to each other, so as to present little islets in the serum. When the blood infected with bacterides begins to putrefy, these agglutinated globules separate again. The blood of the capillaries is far richer in bacterides than is that of the large vessels; but they have not been found to have passed from tlie mother to the foetus, although existing in prodigious numbers in the placenta. When putre- faction has commenced and the bacterides can be no longer recognised, the blood ceases to possess the power of inoculating the carbuncular disease, although, if used in sufficient quantity, it may still cause the death of tlic animal, with other accompanying phenomena. The carbuncular disease, or splenic apoplexy, as observed in sheep, and which first led to the dis- covery of the bacterides in tlio blood, can only be transmitted by inoculation when the blood is fresh. The power which the blood possesses to com- municate tlio disease continues for a longer or shorter time after death,