410 M-POllT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. after delivery, tlie occurrence of abortion in tlie early moutlis, when the ovary is yet larfre from the preaenco of a corpus luteum, and readily becomes morbidly congested at a subsequent menstrual period- a sudden chill during the period itself, or in the interval, and undue sexual excitement, not followed by pregnancy, which leads in many cases to permanent ovarian congestion. Absolute rest in the recumbent position, with astringents and the local application of sedatives, will form the appropriate treatment during the attack; while the local abstraction of blood in the interval, with laxatives and tonics, and the avoidance of all sexual excitement, will be most likely to lead to a successful result. OVAEIOTOMy. Dr. West, " On Ovariotomy " (' Diseases of Women,' 3rd edit., 186j). Mr. Hutchinson, "On Ovariotomy" (Holmes' 'System of Surgery,' vol. 4, p. 526). Dr. E. U. Peaslee, " Successful Case of Double Ovariotomy" ('Amer. Journ. of Med.,' July, 1864). Prof. Simpson, " On Ovariotomy, and First Tappings in Ovarian Dropsy" ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' March, 1864). I.—Dr. West modifies his former opinions, and now admits ovariotomy as a legitimate operation. He thus sums up the indications and contra- indications for the operation:—(i) It is not to be performed in any case of single cyst which is not increasing, or is increasing but slowly, while it has not as yet interfered with the patient's general health. (2) It is not, as a general rule, to be performed until after the cyst has been tapped once. The reasons for this precaution are threefold:—(a) In some rare cases the fluid does not re-collect; (h) the amount of con- stitutional disturbance which follows tapping would be some index to the amount that might be apprehended from the more serious operation; (c) when the cyst is emptied, and during the process of its re-filling, its relations, and the presence or absence of adhesions, especially to parts within the pelvis, can be more readily ascertained. It is a question whether, in the case of simple cysts, ovariotomy ought not to be further limited to cases in which trial has been made of iodine injections sufficient to prove them to be inefficacious or unsafe. (3) It is not to be performed in any case in which a tumour is felt in the pelvis, retaining the same situation, but little changed, after tapping, and from which, by means of the sound, the uterus cannot be distinctly isolated. (4) It is further contra-indicated by the presence of albumen in the urine, or at least by its persistence after tapping, and also by the early occurrence of oedema of the legs, and by the presence of any considerable quantity of ascitic fluid in the abdominal cavity. (5) The previous occurrence of cyst inflammation and general peritonitis, as evidenced by attacks of sickness, shivering, fever, and abdominal pain, with pus in the fluid evacuated by puncture, renders the success of the operation very doubtful. Occasional attacks of abdominal pain, unattended by fever or by continued tenderness, do not contra-iudicate the operation, Bince these may occur independently of inflammation.