82 1U5P0UT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINB. was observable in its interior; but when the microscope was employed OQ sections properly ])repared, lesions were discovered of the same general natiiro as tliose described in the first case. Every region—the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar—was more or less affected; but in eacli the morbid appearances seemed rather to occur at intervals, and not uniformly throughout its length. In some sections the injury was limited to the gray substance ; in otiiers it involved the white columnH, particularly the i)o.sterior and lateral. Sometimes the lesion was in tlio form of a granular deposit around blood-vessels ; sometimes in tin; form of globular masses or rings, arising from injury and displacement of the white substance of the adjacent nerve-fibres. The latter appear- ance was more frequent in the white columns and along the sides of fissures containing blood-vessels, where the tissue occasionally had the aspect of a moth-eaten cloth. In some places the lesional spots were exceedingly small, and might easily have been mistaken by an un- practised eye for the natural appearance of the part. The treatment which Clarke recommends consists of division of the wounded nerve as early and as high up as possible; cupping along the course of the spine ; frequent doses of calomel with opium; and potassio-tartrate of antimony, repeated during the severer paroxysms at short intervals, and in sufficient quantity to produce nausea, or perhaps vomiting. The chief object of the antimony is to subdue the spasm; but it might also assist in arresting the morbid action of the blood-vessels. Some years back Clarke recommended the use of tartrate of antimony in those violent and prolonged paroxysms of hysteria which are so intractable and distressing, and he has never known it fail. As soon as nausea supervenes the spasms, however violent, begin to relax; and if the paroxysm be excited or prolonged by the presence of undigested food in the stomach, the vomiting will prevent its recurrence. In tetanus any depression that might be caused by the antimony would be much less than the exhaustion of the nervous system resulting from the violence of the spasms. Mr. Howaed.—Lancet, Oct. ist. Eecords a case of opisthotonos occurring in an hysterical subject cured by the application of ice to the spine. The patient was a male, a)t. 25. Von Graefe.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Oct. 22nd. Relates a case of facial spasm aflecting the muscles of the left side. It was exceedingly violent, and only ceased during sleep. It could be stopped alone by pressure on a certain point of the lower jaw, behind the last molar tooth. The nearer the pressure was exercised towards the maxillary foramen the easier it was to stop the spasm. The in- tensity of the spasm increased, and there appeared two so-called induced points of pressure, viz., one on the temple corresponding to the tem- poral branch of the subcutaneous malar nerve, and the other corre- sponding to the supra-orbital nerve. Induced points of pressure differ from the real startiug-jioint by the circumstance that by pressure on the former the spasm is only diminished, but not altogether stopped, and also by their being absorbed at a later period of the disease only.