273 SECONDAUY CaNCKROUS GllOWTHS. First. By iuoculation, owing to tlie actual transference of caucer- cells from the primary disease to tlie secondarily affected part, by means either of the circulation in the (a) veins, or in the (b) lymphatics, with their arrest and subsequent growth in these situations. Second. The contamination of the distant part (through the same medium either of blood-vessels or lymphatics by means of certain ichorous juices or cancer-hlastemata, which are supposed either {a) to produce some specific irritating eft'ect upon the natural tissues, or (h) to have the power of developing these by acting themselves as germs or rudiments for the production of the new growth. Third. The formation of the secondary growth, independently alto- gether of the primary, save and except its being an additional manifesta- tion of an error of nutrition, similar to that which has caused the first growth, which abnormal tendency may be due either (a) to congenital, and perhaps hereditary tendencies in the organism itself, or may be, as it were (i) a mere accidental and acquired deviation from the natural laws of growth and development; or, lastly, according to other views, these independent secondary formations are held to be due to the in- tensity of ' blood disease,' and consequent dyscrasia. I. («) With reference to the first supposition, that secondary cancer is induced by cells of the primary growth conveyed to a new site by means of the blood circulating in the veins, it is noAV admitted that this could only occur from cancerous disease of the walls or lining membranes of the vascular system, and more especially of the veins. In these cases portions of the cancer project into the current of the circulation, and cancer-cells may be swept off by the rapidly moving blood. Yet this " theory does not seem to be at all borne out by the usual sites in which we meet with these secondary growths, since the order of their production is by no means coincident with the course of the circulation. In numberless instances, when if this mode of propa- igation were potential we should expect to find cancer in the lungs, none is met with, whilst it is found in the liver, where theory does not require its presence. Then, again, granting that cancer-cells are swept off into the current of the circulation, and arrested in the capillaries of certain organs, if this is to be the origin of cancerous new formations, what are we required to believe ? Certainly things of which hitherto Ave have not had the slightest approach to what may be considered a distinct proof. We should have, for instance, to believe that one or several cells, separated from the parent formation, retained a sufficient degree of vitality and reproductive power to develope a growth similar to that from which they or it had been derived, and this, too, in a situa- tion where, I believe, as yet avc have no evidence of new formations ever being produced, viz., free and unattached, within the vessels them- selves. And if this method of growth seems improbable when the (cancerous matter is, as it were, driven into a cul-de-sac in the capil- lanes, it seems even more improbable that cancer-cells should become fixed, and grow on the inner surface of a large vein in the direct cur- rent of the circulation." 1 (b.) Eespecting the transmission of cancer-cells by means of the (lymphatics, almost nothing is known, although, owing to the frequent 18