MTISCULAB SYSTEM. 23 neutral fats are very stable bodies. The COg present also was in pretty- exact relation with the amount of these volatile ncids. More alcohol was present in the case in which butyric acid was absent. ('Eeichert und Du B. Reymond's Arch.,' No. 4, 1864, p. 491.) VII. MTTSOULAR SYSTEM. Chemical conditions of the fatigue of Muscles.—Eanke has carried further his investigations on this point, made by injecting into the muscles of the frog various products of muscular action (see ' Year-Book,' 1863). In his former experiments he found that the muscular juice and lactic acid suspended by their presence the muscular power, which was restored by washing them away by a solution of common salt. He now states that it is to kreatin and lactic acid that the muscular juice owes its effect. Hippuric acid has no influence, or scarcely any, upon the peripheral muscles, but it transiently suspends the action of the heart, as Ranke thinks by its local action, showing a special relation of that substance to the cardiac muscular fibre. All the other substances experimented with had the same efiect^upon the heart as upon the other muecles. Gl^^cocho- late of soda and the salts of potash act somewhat differently from kreatin and lactic acid, and much more powerfully. Their efTect is like that of COj, and is mthev paralysing than fatiguing. They rapidly produce a change in the structure of the muscle, while the effect of the fatigue-in- ducing substances ceases on their removal. Ki'eatinine acts like the last- named substances (paralysing) but much less powerfully. Of all the salts or products of decomposition normally met with in the organism, that Eanke has examined, two only have no effect on the tissues. These are uric acid and grape sugar. The former is ineffective, probably on account of its slight solubility, but the latter is so even in a concentrated form. Sugar acts precisely like a 7 per cent, solution of chloride of sodium, and in many cases is even more suitable for use as an indifferent fluid. The excitability of the nervous trunks is increased (as in natural fatigue) by the properly fatigue-producing substances, viz., lactic acid and kreatin. Carbonic acid and the soda salts of the bile acids diminish or destroy it. Kreatinin, uric acid, urate of soda, urea, hippuric acid, and the salts of potash, have no effect on the peripheral nerves. Eanke's at- tention was especially drawn to the action of the urea. This substance leaves unaffected the irritability and the power of the muscles, the respiration and the action of the heart, but annihilates the spontaneous and reflex actions. Its influence, therefore, seems to be exerted upon the oi'gan of the will and upon the centre of control for the reflex excitability. By dividing the nervous centres at various parts Eanke came to the con- clusion that the part of tlie brain on which urea acts is situated between the middle of the cerebrum and the middle of the corpora quadrigemina, to which region Setschcnow assigns the "controlling organ of reflex e.x- citability " discovered by him (see 'Year-Book,' 18(53). This centre is excited by urea in such a way that a paralysis of the entire periplieral reflex apparatus is induced, lasting even after removal of the brain and section of the cord. At the samo time the cord and nerves are excitable