169 SECRETORY SYSTEM. ' Anstio tbiuks it dangerous to diminish suddenly tbe daily dose of opium, thougb it may be large, which diabetics are in the habit of taking He thi'uks they require a larger proportion of fatty food, and that phos- phorus in the "form of hypophosphites is beneficial. OwEX Rees, M.D.—Lancet, Oct. 16. Kecords the case of a female suffering from well-marked diabetes mellitus who obtained considerable benefit from the administration of Liq. Arsenici Chloridi, 111.V ter die. LowENSOK.—On a imrtictdar condition restdtincj from the epidermoid transformation of the 'Epithelium of the Bladder. Petersb. Med. Ztsc'hr., 2, p. 321;, 1862. Eokitansky describes as one of the results of chronic cystitis a more or less extensive growth of epidermis on the mucous surface, which ultimately leads to the formation of thickly laminated, whitish, glisten- ing layers of epidermic cells, which become detached in large laminae. This change may be propagated to the ureters. Lowenson regards this degeneration as the starting-point of an advanced and interesting form of disease, of which he records the following instance :—A female, £et. 40, died of peritonitis, the abdomen being very painful and distended. There was a roundish tumour felt above the symphisis pubis, and stenosis of the mitral valve. At the autopsy the tumour was found to extend as high as the umbilicus, and to be closely adherent to the uterus. On cutting into it it was found to consist of the urinary bladder, enormously dilated, and filled with a very large quantity of small yellow globules, and of dully glistening scales lying free in their interstices. The mass, weighing about 3^ pounds, was exceedingly like a soup of boiled yellow peas, between which the flattened husks lay. The small, clear, yellow globules had a spherical or lenticular shape. Their diameter varied from i to 4 tenths of an inch; their surface was smooth, their consistence that of moist clay. The whole inner surface of the bladder was covered with laminar flakes, many of which lay between and in the globules. These laminae covering the wall of the bladder were elastic, firm, of a dull mother-of-pearl bril- liancy, and the layers lying next to the cavity of the bladder resembled in colour and consistence the substance of the globules. After the removal of these laminre epithelial membranes could be peeled off the mucous surface. In certain places the transition and the transforma- tion of the laminar deposits into the semifluid substratum of the globules was very evident. The mucous membrane of the bladder was normal, in some places only it was worn away, and depressions were left. The urethra and the ureters were normal. The kidneys were in a condition of granular atrophy. The large intestine was inflamed, the peritoneum covered with puriform exudation. On examination of the yellow globules with the microscope it was seen that young epithelial cells of the mucous membrane, often in a state of fatty degeneration, lassumed gradually all the qualities of very large epidermic scales as • they passed into the laminar deposits. Most of them were devoid of iiucici, many were granular, and, according to their position, presented various microscopic peculiarities. The action of reagents showed that tlie globules consisted of granular fatty matter, and calcareous, of