403 PELVIC HiEMATOCELE. dotted, and only a general reddening and injection of the whole perito- neum. In the encysted variety, much the more common, tlie extrava- sation is smaller and more gradual. Adhesions form between the different pelvic organs, so that the upper part of the uterus becomes firmly united with the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and that part of the small intes- tines lying in contact with it, and the recto-uterine cul-de-sac is thus converted into a complete adventitious cyst, containing blood, limited anteriorly- by the posterior surface of the uterus, upper part of the vagina, and posterior fold of the broad ligament, posteriorly by the rectum, and above by adhesiofis. If the effusion into this circumscribed space con- tinue, the uterus and bladder are driven forwards and crushed against the pubis; the rectum is pressed back and flattened against the sacrum ; the adhesions above and soft parts below gradually yield to the pressure, but at length give way, and the blood escapes by the rectum or vagina, or, breaking through the adhesions, causes rapid death by general peritonitis. The sources of the hajmorrhage are various. Excluding injuries to the walls of the abdomen and to the organs contained therein. Dr. Tuckwell mentions the following as sources from which the haematocele originates: — (i) B}' obstruction to the natural outlet of the menstrual blood, which regurgitates into the peritoneal cavity, either through the ostia abdominalia of the Fallopian tubes or through a rent in some part of their walls. Of 44 cases terminating fatally from different causes, five are referred to under this head. In all, death followed an operation for the relief of the retained menstrual fluid. (2) By hasmorrhage into the Fallopian tube at the menstrual epoch, and escape of the blood, either by the ostium abdominale or by rupture from over-distension. The former condition occurred in 2 only out of 8 cases I'elated in illustration of this cause; in the remaining 6 the tube was ruptured. (3) By rupture of the sac in extra-uterine fcjetation, more especially in tubal pregnancy. Of the 44 fatal cases related in the synopsis, 10 occurred from this cause, and 7 of these 10 were cases of tubal pregnancy. (4) By rupture of the investing tunic of a congested ovary, and escape of blood, either from a Graafian vesicle which is the seat of extraordinary hgemorrhage, or ii'om the parenchyma of the organ into which a blood-vessel has burst. Eleven cases are related by the author in which the post-mortem showed this condition. (5) By rupture of a varicose vein in the pampiniform plexus of the ovary. Eichet points out the fact that the veins of this plexus, being without valves, are especially liable to become varicose during pregnancy, or in women who have borne many children; and hence Bernutz suggests, that if haematocele occur in a pregnant woman who has varicose veins of the labia, or even of the legs, the probabiHty is great that the veins of the pampiniform plexus are also varicose, and that one of them has burst. Four fatal cases occurred from this cause. Among the causes predisposing to this hasmorrhage are — (1) Atje. Of 91 cases in which the age was noted, 5 5 were under ,30 and 16 between .30 and 40. Only i was above 40. (2) The catamenial period is the time at which the extravasation is most easily produced. (3) Dijsmemr- rhcca. (4) Menorrhar/ia. Of 76 cases, the first symptoms of the hajmor- rhage occurred at the catamenial period in 36; in 40 menorrhao-ia was present at the time of, or shortly before, the attack, (5) Childbirth. Of