aESPIRATOEY SYSTEM. 189 uniformly. It may be admitted that at the present day, iu this country and in our liospitals, cases are rare which require considerable blood- letting and lowering remedies, and in which for the lessening of an active°inflammation more than moderate measures are necessary ; never- theless there are cases recurring at different times, more or less numerous, wliere tlie contrary prevails, where an expectant treatment is very injurious, because it allows the disorder to prolong its duration, or even to proceed to a fatal issue. Brxson.—On Einclemic Pleuro-pneumonia in some Ships of the Medi- terranean Fleet in i860. ^Lancet, Jan. 9. The disease was of a low asthenic or typhoid type, accompanied with gi-eat congestion of the lungs, usually of the lower lobes, and, in many of the cases, in the ship chiefly affected—the St. Jean d'Acre—with scorbutic symptoms, although the diet of her crew was, in every respects, as good as in the other vessels of the squadron. In the Cressy, too, there was an unusual prevalence of lung disease, often of an obscure and anomalous character, which was not easy to designate. The evi- dencies of tlie pulmonary tissue being congested or even consolidated,, iu different parts of the chest, associated with pleurisy or pleurodynia, and with such a cachectic condition of the system as might probably lead on to tubercular degeneration in chronic cases, were the most conspicuous features of the malady. Eff"usion into the chest was dis- covered in a few instances. Diarrheal and dysenteric attacks were common both iu the early and in the later stage. From a table given, showing the number of the ci'ew in each ship, and the number of cases of sickness, it appears, on taking the per-centage, that the Marlborough, with the largest crew, had, in the course of the year, 81 "6 per-cent. cases of sickness, the Agamemnon io4"9, the St. Jean d'Acre ig&j^, : and the Cressy 206 per cent. The diseases are classified as pulmonary, intestinal, continued and remittent fevers, and ulcers. The pulmonary were more numerous than all the others put together, in the ratio of 1069 : 1044. The deaths from disease in the St. Jean d'Acre and in the Cressy were twice as numerous as in the Marlborough, notwith- standing the much smaller crews of the former vessels ; and the number invalided from the first ship was fourfold as numerous. As to the chief cause of this enormous disproportion in the sickness and mortality, &c., in two ships of the same fleet and similarly exposed, it was clearly shown that this lay iu the excessive overcrowding of the men at night in the St. Jean d'Acre on the lower deck, while in the Marlborough the men were more distributed on the different decks, and greater attention was paid to ventilation of the between decks. Only 14 inches of space were allowed to each hammock in the former ship, and so thoroughly was cool fresh air excluded from the men while asleep that the air (above the hammocks was found to be from 8 to 10° hotter than tlie air below the hammocks, and so offensively impure as to cause nausea to |any one going down from the open air. With such a state of thino-s it lis not wonderful that the health of the ship was so bad during the'two Jyears while on the station that it was at last found necessary to send iher back to England to be paid off". Besides several features of re-