HEPOKT ON I'UYSIOLOOy. by division had given rise to more. Ho is therefore disposed to adopt BiUroth'rt view, that there may he a development of blood-globules in eells, and an emptying of the same into the vessels. The part which the walls of the vessels take in the produetion of new formations is a very extended one. The nuclei of the vessels, especially of the capillaries, form an important source of new elements in them all, inasmuch as they first enlarge, and then, by repeated division, procreate a brood of fresh nuclei. These latter surround themselves with protoj)lasma and with a membrane, and assume various forms and sizes, according to the character of the new formation. This process may be traced in all inflamed tissues, most readily in bones, where the capillary nuclei increase, so that the capillaries are entirely covered with spindle- formed nuclei, and become like granulation-vessels. If these nuclei go on merely to the form.ation of connective tissue there arise spongy granu- lations, which, in certain non-suppurative joint affections, grow out from the bones, and by their tension cause great pain. If these nuclei in part turn to pus there is the common form of purulent caries. The case is similar in inflammation of other parts. This produetion of nuclei is sometimes so abundant in the brain and spinal cord as to simulate sarcoma. It is a great element in the formation of tubercle. The small granules of tubercular meningitis arise from the growth of the nuclei of the small vessels, as also do the tubercles of mucous and serous mem- branes and of joints. In the lungs and kidneys the nuclei of the con- nective tissue and the epithelium also contribute to the formation of tubercle. The characteristic forms of many tumours, alike benign and malignant, is due to their origin from the nuclei of the vessels. In regard to the retrograde metamorphosis of vessels, the nuclei ahke in softening, in inflammation, and in rapidly growing tumours, tend to become fatty. Hence the tendency to bleeding in sarcoma. In healing, also, the vessels becoiiie obliterated, partly from pressure, partly from diminished afflux. Thus scars have fewer vessels, and the same is the case with the internal "scars" of inflammation. The framework of a cancer is like a scar-tissue ; the obliterated vessels resemble connective tissue. .('Virehow's Arch.,' vol. 29, 1864, p. 84.) IV. EESPIEATION. Change produced in the Blood hy Oxygen.—Prof. Stokes has made an important contribution to the theory of respiration. His attention having been called to Hoppe's paper on the spectrum given by a dilute solution of blood, he sought to ascertain whether he could imitate the change of colour of arterial into that of venous blood, on the supposition that it arises from reduction. The most suitable reducing agent was found to be a solution of protosulphate of iron in tartaric acid, rendered alkaline by ammonia or carbonate of soda, but other alkaline solutions had the same effect. From his experiments lie found that the colouring matter of blood, like indigo, is capable of existing in two states of oxidation, distinguish- able by a diflerenee of colour and a fundamental difference of action on the spectrum. It may be made to pass from the more to the less oxidized state by the action of suitable reducing agents, and recovers its oxygen