826 KEPOUT ON SUHGKRY. the jaw was depressed with difTiculty, and, as the sterno-mastoid was involved in the growtli, the neck was sliglitly inclined towards the shoulder, and was almost motionless. For more than 15 days he had had no rest, owing to violent neuralgia, probably caused by tlie dis- tension or compression of bi-anchca of tlie cervical plexus. He was ex. hausted and anasmic ; owing to the pain, he urgently pressed for the operation. "With the view of diminishing the danger, M. Verneuil decided to ligature the external carotid some distance from its origin; on looking for it at the bottom of his first incision, it was evidently not in its usual place. He thei-efore enlarged the incision downwards, so as to expose the common carotid opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Even at this point the vessel was almost 4 centimetres deep, owing to the thickened and rigid sterno-mastoid; the latter was divided so as to allow free access to the sheath. The free bleeding that had already taken place sufficiently proved the necessity of this preliminary step. During the rest of the operation the oozing was so slight that the trunk and the larger branches of the facial nerve were easily re- cognised, and safely dissected out. The only bleeding Avas indeed venous and readily stopped; the patient lost scarcely 7 ounces of blood. The operator first divided a vein, the external jugular or one of its branches, whilst separating the supra-clavicular prolongation of the tumour; a whistling sound indicated the passage of air into the vein; the latter was instantly compressed, then tied ; no change occurred in the pulse or breathing. The tumour was divided to facilitate its detach- ment from the pharynx and the sheath of the vessels. The external carotid was included in the morbid growth; the surgeon excised a portion of it at least two centimetres long, and tied the two ends, from which passed a very feeble jet of blood. He also excised between two ligatures the common trunk of the facial and temporal veins, and finally enucleated the supra-clavicular ganglion. The wound was enormous; nil the muscles of the side of the neck were bared. - The progress was afterwards most satisfactory; only some local symptoms, partial paralysis of the face, angina, laryngitis, occurred. On the 5th day the edges of the wound showed a trace of inflammation in only one point, and that was supplied principally b}' branches of the subclavian ; the suppuration was healthy, though very scanty. In 15 days he began to get up. When he left the hospital, the wound was not completely cicatrized; the neck moved with difficulty, but the hoarseness of voice and the facial paralysis were rapidly diminishing. The tumour was again fibro-glaudular; in many parts, however, the culs-de-sac were destroyed, and nucleated epithelium was infiltrated in the fibrous stroma. On tumours of the parotid (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 120, p. 338). LABTNX AND TRACHEA. John Windsor, case of epiglottitis ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' J864, i, 120). —The patient, a male, a?t. 35, was first seen on Aug. 21, 1863 ; he had been ill for a days, and complained t)f almost total inability to swallow,