1 436 EEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEllIA MEDICA. The urine wliich was passed after the administration of ijo grmm. of powdered cubebs possessed intermediate cliaracters. It had the Biiicll of the drug,'and it contained a considerable quantity (77 grm.) oi; resin, of whicli only a small proportion was cubebic acid, but it also ■ deposited uric acid spontaneously, and contained aa excess of tlial substance. As might be expected, the ingestion of such large quantities of a., medicinal agent produced other effects besides the change in the com- position of the urine. The temperature of the body was slightly in- creased for a time, and the pulse was quickened, but less markedly when:, the cubebic acid had been taken than after the volatile oil or the- powdered cubebs. There was also more or less disorder of the stomach,i, and flatulence. Irritation of the urinary passages was produced in al." these experiments. Sensations of cutting and of constriction aftei micturition were felt, even after the ingestion of cubebic acid ; but thit is ascribed by Bernatzik to the acidity of the urine, and to the deposi- tion of uric-acid crystals within the bladder, for it would appear un-.- likely that cubebic acid should itself act as an irritant to the urinary organs. From these observations it results that the volatile oil is the activt-3 constituent of this drug. The cubebic acid would probably exerl rather an injurious influence in the treatment of gonorrhcEa, from it£: tendency to make the urine acid. It may be mentioned that these results differ widely from those obtained by Weikart with balsam 0: i copaiba. He found that nitric acid produced no opacity in the urine when oil of copaiba had been taken, but only after the ingestion of tht balsam ; and therefore he attributed this effect chiefly to the copaibic acid which it contained. Pas and Gronewegen ('Bull, de Ther.,' 65, p. 122) describe n new form of cubebs, which have recently been introduced from the Dutch Indies. The fruit is considerably larger than that of the ordi- • nary drug, resembling rather the pimento in size. They are of an ash gray colour, passing into brownish-black. Their stalk is somewhat flat the furrows on the surface of the berry are less regular and less deep that in the true cubebs. Their odour is less agreeable, and their taste less- pungent. When thrown into water they sink to the bottom far more quickly ; they also impart a dark-brown colour to the liquid, while the ordinary drug gives it a yellow hue. M. Pas considers them to be the ripe fruits of the Guhcha officinalis, Gronewegen believes them to be derived from ' the Piper Anisatum. Tliey are cheaper than the true cubebs, but are said not to be an efiicient substitute for meeiica purposes ; they give only half the quantity of extract when treated witl ether. Matico.—Vvot Bentley ('Phar. Joum.,' 5, p. 290) gives an account of a new form of matico recently imported into this country fron Panama. It appears to be derived from the Ar/aiitJie adttnca (Miquel), i plant widely distributed in the tropical regions of America. It con sists of the dried, more or less broken, fibrous leaves, together with i very few flower-spikes and small fragments of branches. The uppei surface of the leaves is not so tesselated or rough as that of the ordi-