IIEPOIIT ON PJlACriCAL JIKDICINE. 76 firmly compressed, and licr fists are clenched. From time to time she bursts into a violent fit of laughter. The pupil is contracted, but there are no muscular twitchings in any part, consciousness and voluntary motion remain unimpaired. Exactly at 3 p.m. the paroxysm terminates, she falls back in a state of complete exhaustion, panting for breath, and covered with profuse perspiration. She eats her dinner with appetite at 4.30, at 5 p.m. she falls into a state of complete insensibility and remain.s so till 5 a.m. next morning, from which time till the recurrence of the access at i p.m. she is perfectly calm and sensible. Las£gue, A.—On Jli/strrical AncBstJiesia and Aiaxia. Arch. G^ner., April, 1864. Schmidt's .Tahrb., vol. 123, p. 170, A girl, ffit. 18, previously hysterical was attacked by paroxysms of spasmodic disorder, which returned at intervals during 2 years. After one of these she became cataleptic, and subsequently fell into the same state every a or 3 days. At first the fits only occurred after an attack of spasmodic disorder, but at a later period they came on spontaneously. They consisted of deep sopor coming on and ceasing suddenl}*. The limbs were flexible, only the jaws were contracted. All parts of the body ex- cepting the face retained any posture in which they were placed for a longer or shorter time, without any feeling of weariness or consciousness of their position being experienced. Circulation and respiration were un- altered, the face was pale. During the attack all consciousness was sus- pended. In the intervals it appeared that the cutaneous sensibility was quite lost in all the four extremities as regards contact, pain, and temperature, the same was the case in the greater part of the trunk, in the neck and head it was much diminished. The parts subjacent to the skin were anaesthetic like the skin itself. As far as the skin was sensitive the patient was able to move voluntarily the subjacent muscles, while the eyes were closed. Ilj on the contrary, she wished to move a limb she writhed her trunk to and fro as a sign that her volition was active, but no movement of the limb was effected. She was quite unconscious of the position of her limbs, or of their being changed in any way. She had no sense of fatigue, and as soon as her eyes were shut she kept the most uncomfortable posture which would have been intolerable in a few seconds to a healthy person. When her eyes were open she had the full use of her motor power, and experienced the sensation of fatigue after a moderate time. If the eyes, though open, were not directed to the object the movements were imper- fectly executed, but if one was begun it could be completed. If she could only see her limbs through the bed-clothes she was able to make some use of them. It is a peculiar feature of hysterical anaesthesia that the patients take no account of it, and do not mention it as a morbid symptom as they do the paralysis, and the pains. Even when their attention is called to it they caunot point out accurately as a paraplegic or an ataxic patient can, the locality and extent of the insensible parts. This is the more remarkable since their customary actions are materially interfered with by the anaesthesia. With respect to the action of the eye in facili- tating voluntary movements, Lasegue thinks that it informs the intelli- gence and makes it correspond with the will. It is, however, inexplicable how before the execution of an action, vision can give the impulse to its