REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. yiORCir, 0.—Cases of EchhiococcHu in the Liver, llosp. Ti/]., j;, j8. 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 50. Storcli relates 6 oascH, 2 of wliom were males and 4 females. The first 2 cases died appai-cnlly of other disorders; the third had ou Jan. 7, marked hydatid li-emitus iu a small tumour projecting from under the right ribs ; but on March 19, and subsequently, the fremitus was uo longer to be detected, although the tumour increased in size. In the fourth case, a female, a;t. 64, the tumour burst into the peritoneal cavity, and caused fatal peritonitis. In the fifth case, a!t. 31, male, the tumour made its way through the diaphragm, and large quantities of hydatids were discharged through the right lung. This continued for .3 or 4 weeks, and by the middle of September he was convalescent. In the last case the patient, a female, a;t. 37, died of peritonitis after the operation of paracentesis abdominis. The abdomen had been greatly distended by a very lai-ge cyst attached to the upper part of the spleen, which contained a turbid greenish-yellow fluid, like that which had been drawn off iu the operation, and some loose hydatids. The liver contained numerous large cysts, filled with a yellowish turbid fluid, iu which floated membranous flocculi. Haelet, Q-., M.D.—Lectures on the Urine and Diseases of the Urinary Organs. On Uro-hcematiji, and the ahnormal pigments met loith in tvhite, yellow, green, hhie, and black Urine—their clinical signi- ficance and treatment. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. 10, Oct. 29, Nov. 26, 1864. The colour of the urine varies greatly in disease. It may be per- fectly white, yellow, brown, red, black, green, or blue, and each of these tints, in the absence of ingesta capable of accidentally producing them, invariably indicates the existence of grave disease. Normally coloured urine does not, however, exclude the possibility of disease, for the colour of the freshly passed urine is uo absolute criterion either of the quantity or the kind of colouring matter it contains. The abnormal, like the normal pigments, are often combined with some of the other urinary ingredients in the form of colourless compounds, and it is not until the compound is decomposed, and the pigment set free, that we can take cognizance either of its quantity or its quaUty. For example, here are three urines—ist, a pale, almost colourless urine,from a healthy iufant, £et. i8 months; 2nd, an equally pale, almost colourless urine, from a girl, s&i. 19, suffering from chlorofciis ; 3rd, a dark straw-coloured, but perfectly transparent urine, from a healthy man, £et. 33. All have the same sp. gr., 1018. To each of them add a quarter of their bulk 0 strong nitric acid, and bring them to the boiling-point. The infant's pale urine is scarcely altered, the man's dark urine is only slightljT deepened in tint, whereas the almost colourless uriue of the elilorotic girl has assumed an intensely red hue. "What is the cause of this dif- ference ? The infant is in the bloom of health ; there is no waste of ^ blood-corpuscles in it; all the blood-discs it possesses are employed in the development of its frame. The man has arrived at maturity ; he is I still iu the prime of life and in the enjoyment of perfect health; inj blood-corpuscles are not wasted, but mcre'ly consumed in the wear and #