256 IIKPORT ON SUllGEUY. " 6. Guards against distortion from unbalanced actions of inuscles, especially contracted lingers or elbows. " "With these thiugs patiently, that is, year after year continued, much good may bo acliicved. In the case already mentioned as exactly like that of the young man in the hospital, great good has been gained by a year's treatment; she can now move the elbow in liexion and exten- sion, and draw the upper arm inwards, and slightly bend and extend the fingers. There are very distinct sensations in the whole arm and hand, and freedom from all pain; the natural temperature has been restored, and she has ordinary sensations of heat and cold. Galvanism seems to have done special good; the arm was observed to become weaker when it was omitted for a week. " But for the more complicated state, though the treatment must be essentially the same, it must be gentle, with less of galvanism, and less force of movement, and less of voluntary exercise, for these can rarely be borne as they can be in the cases of simple paralysis." /. M. Warren on neuralgic affections following injuries of nerves ('Amer. Jouru. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. .316).—"It is im- portant to inquire into the propriety of dividing the nerve as a remedy for traumatic neuralgia. In answer to this question, we may state that if the nerve is simply divided, sensation will probably return before the tissues implicated in the original injury have had time to recover their normal condition, and that, therefore, the operation will afford only very transient relief, and may have to be repeated several times. If, on the other hand, a portion of the nerve is excised, the restoration of the nervous function will be very much longer in taking place, but tliere will also be great danger that the repair will be incomplete or even that it may fail altogether, and thus entail permanent loss both of sensation and of motion. The deliberate removal of a long section of the nerve with a view to the permanent abolition of its functions can be but very rarely indicated, and then only as a dernier ressort, as the possible alternative of amputation. The rational treatment of these neuralgic affections seems to me to be based on the fact that their natural tendenyis to recovery, if only we can keep the patient comfortable and thus induce him to wait for this tardy relief. This can only be effected by division of the nerve, or by the use, either local or general, of nar- cotics. The protracted use of opium internally in sufficient quantity to relieve the pain, will almost inevitably exei-t a most pernicious influence on the healtli, while mere local applications to the skin seem to have very little effect. The great benefit which has been derived from the use of hypodermic injections of morphia for ordinary neuralgia, naturally suggested the propriety of trying them in this affection, and the success whicli has attended the experiment has been most gratifying." Dr. Warren appends three cases of severe traumatic neuralgia, which have lately occurred in his practice, and which throw light upon certain points in the pathology and treatment of this painful affection. The first case is related as follows :— "Severe neuralr/ic affection following a gunshot injury of the median nerve.—In tiic second battle of Bull Eun, Lieut. A—, of a N. H.