366 IIEPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. communicated with the tumour attached to the uterus. This tumour contained a mummy-liko embryo, the size of a 4- or /j-months fa3tus. It was greyish-yellow in colour, encrusted with chalky masses, together with the leather-like sac itself. Around this latter, wax-like i'at was deposited, which not only enveloped the foetus, but also the right tube aud the right ovary forming the tumour which pressed towards the left. The woman had borne a child about-26 years before; had several times miscarried, the last time in her 50th year, after v/hicli slie still men- struated regularly for some time. About 10 years before her death an abscess had formed, and discharged itself in the right inguinal region, aud so caused the cicatrix. 3.—Dr. Matthews Duncan's case of uterine hsematocele complicating extra-uterine gestation, occurred in a married woman, who had pre- viously had a family, the catamenia ceasing 14 weeks before death. JN'o other symptoms of pregnancy were present, and 1 days before death she expressed her positive disbelief of its existence. About a month before this menstruation began, and was accompanied by rigors, lumbar and hypogastric pain, chiefly on the right side, and bearing down. The discharge continued till 2 days before death, when all the painful symptoms had almost disappeared. The hsematocele suddenly ruptured, and peritonitis aud death rapidly followed. Physical examination during life revealed absolute dulness over a somewhat rectangular space above the right horizontal ramus of the pubis, measuring about 3 inches from above downwards. The uterus was anteflexed and hypertrophied, with very slight elongation of the cavity and enlarge- ment, but no softening of the cervix. Behind the cervix, and occupy- ing the posterior half of the upper region of the pelvis, there was great fulness, and in the centre a distinct tumour could be felt, with little tenderness. Autopsy.—G-eneral peritonitis. Above the right horizontal ramus of the pubes, and behind the abdominal wall, was a cavity filled with bloody fluid. This cavity extended from the brim of the pelvis on the right to the crest of the left ilium, but on the left side was covered anteriorly by a layer of coherent small intestines. The bloody fluid was mi;r«-peritone"al, the sac being formed by strong, but not old, peri- toneal adhesions of the abdominal walls, small intestines, and other neighbouring parts. The left prolongation of the sac opened into the general peritoneal cavity. On laying back the bowels a tumour the size of an orange, containing clotted blood aud a foetus of less tli.an 2 months' growth, was found lying between the upper half of the sacrum and the uterus, adherent to a fold of small intestine. A large rupture was found in the lower part of the anterior wall of the cyst. Prof Simpson records a case. A woman, ost. 3.3, who had borne 6 children, menstruated December 25th, 1862. Six weeks after, she suf- fered from symptoms of peritonitis. Similar attacks occurred up to her death, in April, 186.3. Dr. Simpson saw her on April 26th, suf- fering from a paroxysm of pain, and found tlie uterus enlarged; the sound passed about 5 inches. Behind the cervix a fluctuating tumour was felt, and the foetal lieart was heard over the abdomen. A ])uucture was made in the recto-vaginal space, in the hope of evacuating tiie