474 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. into the night. The food given to these girls is generally good ; meat 18 provided at dinner, and when the hours are late also at supper.' The time •allowed for meals is ordinarily short. These girls rarely get any exercise. They usually have a holiday of from a fortnight to a month in the slack time of the year. In 34 establishments Dr. Ord found that the allowance of cubic feet of air to each worker was in 4 cases more than 500, in 4 cases between 400 and 500, in 5 cases from .300 to 400, in 5 cases from 250 to 300, in 7 cases from 200 to 250, in 4 cases from 150 to 200, in 9 cases only from 100 to 150. Mr. Simon remarks that the' largest of these allowances is but scanty for continuous work; and Dr. Ord says that, though the rooms do not generally become close or overheated during the day, they are very unwholesome at night, from the number of gas-jets employed. Artificial ventilation is rarely attended to. The bedrooms occupied by these women appear to be tolerably healthy and seldom overcrowded, Indoor milliners seem to live to a great extent under the same con- ditions as the dressmakers, but their hours are more uniform, averaging II or 12 or 15 hours, inclusive of meals, throughout the year. The position of outdoor dressmakers and milliners is in many respects different. Their hours are from 8 or 9 a.m. to 9 or 10 p.m., and they have the power of refusing over-work. Among skilled hands such refusals appear not to be uncommon. As the only meal supplied to these day-workers is their tea, the amount of their earnings is to them a matter of the greatest importance. The general minimum of Avages appears to be gs. a Aveek, and the more skilful workwomen earn from I OS. to 14s. a Aveek. They usunlly get only one good meal a day, namely, their supper, and Dr. Ord is of opinion that it is not possible for them to obtain proper nourishment for the small pittance w"hich they can earn. They are therefore compelled to increase their earnings either by taking their work home or by taking in work on their own account, or by less pi\aiseworthy means. Moreover, many of them find regular employment only during the season. No statistics as to the health of these women can be obtained. They appear, however, to Avear out rapidly, and after the age of 35 they find difliculty in getting employment. Their diseases seem to be chiefly the following:—i. Symptoms of brain distress, headache, and giddiness. 2. Dyspepsia. 3. Diseases of depressed vitality, phthisis, chlorosis, and hysteria. 4. Affections of vision, occurring chiefly in the day-w'orkers. It is asserted that many of them enjoy the excite- ment of the heavy Avork which they go through before a drawing-room; but close questioning shows, as might be exjiected, that they suffer much from exhaustiou afterA\'ards. Of other needle-women, some, such n8 those occupied in collar- making, mantle-making, &c., work in large establishments. Among them the regular hours of work are usually moderate, but subject to extension at certain times. The Avages vary from 5 or 6 shillings AA-eokly to 20 or even 30 shillings. The Avorkrooms present every A'ariety of condition. The influence of the sewing machine appears iu the City and East End houses to be favorable to the health of the Avork- women. They earn more, and the muscles of their limb? and trunk