106 UEl'ORT ON I'EACTICAL MEDICINE, persons be subject to dernngcmeutB of the nervous system betraying the existence of the diathesis. The hereditary tendency to suicide is illus- trated in many instances. AH forms of insanity—mania, melancholia, monomania, and general paralysis—appear reciprocally to reproduce each other ; and just as we have in the course of an individual case varying forms of mental disease, so in the line in which hereditary predisposi- tion exists we find in the same way similar varieties of disease appear- ing in dift'erent individuals of the race. Stewart gives the following figures as showing the proportions of hereditary cases in the difierent forms of insanity. In mania the number was 51 percent., in melan- cholia 577 per cent., in monomania 49 per cent., in moral insanity 50 per cent., in idiocy and imbecility 36 per cenb., in dipsomania 63 "4 per cent., in general paralysis 47-6 per cent., in dementia and fatuity 39"^ per cent. The various forms assumed in hereditary insanity have a striking analogy in those of hereditary tubercular disease ; for just as we have imbecility, idiocj^, mania, and other forms of insanity, coming on at various periods of life, so we find hydrocephalus, tabes mesente- rica, scrofulous enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and phthisis pul- monalis, appearing at different periods of development. As in the former case we observe one form of insanity being transmitted and appearing in the next generation in a different form, so also in the latter we have difi"erent forms of the tubercular disease apparently generating each other, in an infected race. Question VI relates to the age on first attack in hereditary cases of insanity. Esquirol observes that in here- ditary cases the disease often comes on at the same period of life as in the progenitors. HdrkliU appearing at the same time of life, and piirsuing the same course in the offspring as it did in the parent, is called by Moreau perfect. Mental derangement is not likely to occur until the mind is fully develiped. Should it appear before this period, or just at it, without ther6 being any other cause likely to induce disease, it is probable that the source will be found in hereditary pre- disposition. Crichton states that after the age of 30, sometimes much earlier in life, the hereditarily pi'edisposed to melancholy begin to have indescribable sensations of anxiety and internal uneasiness, of which they can give no good account, resulting in an attack of mania. Dr. Maudsley observes that hereditary mania is apt to appear at the age of puberty, and that in the decline of life melancholia and hypochondriasis, having a similar origin, become established. From a table Stewart gives of his own experience, and that of Thurnam, it appears that the predisposed cases are apt to suffer earlier in life than other cases, that they suffer more at the age of puberty and manhood, and decidedly less as old age approaches. In the Crichton cases 50-97 per cent, occurred before the age of 30, and 73"28 before the age of 40. Question YII relates to the number of attacks in hereditary cases. From Stewart's experience, and that of Thurnam and Hood, it results that hereditary cases have a much greater tendency to relapse than other cases, the per-centage of not first attacks being in the former 35-3 3, in the latter ao, 22, or 32. This point in their history may be still more forcibly illustrated. The number of individuals readmitted during the last 24 years to th'i Crichton institution is 78, and of these in less than 51