SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 189 children and delicate women. Another obstinate form is marked by a constant coldness and clamminess of skin, witli sluggishness of secre- tions, loss of appetite, and debility. But of all the forms of intermit- tent fever, uncomplicated with enlargement of the spleen, those iu wliich an attack occurs at intervals of lo days, a fortnight, or a month, arc the most intractable, and a long course of careful treatment is usually required for their removal. A low state of vital power, how- ever induced, predisposes to ague. Sleeping in a damp room and with- out a bedstead, especially if the room be on the ground floor and have a well under it, very commonly leads to an attack. Qninine is the only remedy that can be relied on; arsenic given to 7ii_xv daily has almost always failed. In recurring ague quinine only arrests the attacks for a short time, and it is necessary to pay special regard to the general state of the patient's health and the circumstances of his dwelling, occupation, food, &c. Haemorrhage from the bowels frequently accom- panies long-protracted agues, and, as well as diarrhoea, should not be hastily checked unless the patient is weakened thereby in a marked degree. The rules for prophylaxis are to take daily active exercise outside the walls, to have a cold bath each morning on rising, and a few minutes' brisk exercise immediately afterwards, to keep to a plain and re- gular diet, avoiding large draughts of water, especially after eating fruit, to guard against sudden chills and mental perturbations, to avoid exercise in the heat of the day during summer, and not to sleep on the ground floor. Typhus and typhoid are said to occur. The former has been rare in Jerusalem the last 3 years ; the latter has also been less frequent than might have been expected from the filth and bad odours with which the city is pervaded. Not a few cases have diff'ered so much from ordinary typhoid that they were only determined to be of this nature by the exclusion of typhus. In two instances of bilio-gastric fever the patients vomited large quantities of bile; complained of great heat iu the prgecordia ; had wet skins and slow pulses during the day, with attacks of fever at night. Both were very ill, but recovered under the use of calomel and quinine in large doses, the first signs of improvement being accompanied by a copious dejection of biliary matter. Lancet, October i. The influence of drainage on the rate of mortality is strongly exem- plified in Salisbury. For nine years previous to the adoption of the Public Health Act, in 1850, the annual death-rate was 30 per 1000; for the nine years subsequently it was reduced to 20 per 1000, or one fourth less. For the Close of Salisbury the death-rate for the same periods was respectively 20 and 13. The deaths by consumption for seven years before the drainage were 286, and for seven years since only 143. For 1863 the deaths from consumption were only 11, or i in 818 of the population, whilst for the whole kingdom they were i iu 376. Dn. Altiiaus.—Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sciences, August, 1864. Contributes a useful paper, giving a summary account of the mineral waters of England and the Continent of Europe, which are at present generally used for therapeutical purposes. He successively considers the alkaline, acidulous springs ; the muriated, alkaline, acidulous waters;