GENERAL SYSTEM. G5 that syphilis is transmitted to the children only by those parents who have some, though perhaps insignificant syphilitic affection of the testes or ovaries. jACKSCK.—Si/pJiilis of interned on/ans. Prag. Med. Wochnschi-., 1-7, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. "132, p. 298. Jacksch lays down the following as the characteristics of syphilitic organic lesions :—(i) They exist in the absence of the causes which usually give rise to such conditions. (2) They exist in combination with other morbid phenomena which are looked upon as specific. (3) They appear at a determinate period of the general disease. (4) They exhibit in their form, course, and duration the specific character. (5) There is an analogy between them and other morbid phenomena belonging to the same diathesis. (6) Antisyphilitic treatment acts beneficially upon them, while all other is ineffectual. (7) The material alterations, and the symptoms dependent upon them present certain peculiarities characteristic of the syphilitic process. The natural tendency of the syphilitic product is to active growth, but this process is of an unproductive character, either forming atrophying cicatrices, or leading to a fattily degenerating cell- growth. The gummatous tumour is most characteristic. Actual in- flammation only occurs in the vicinity of the morbid process, and fever is rarel}' present in syphilitic disease of internal organs. Such internal affections are by no means rare; Treitz met with them in 2 per cent, of all post-mortem examinations. The prognosis is in general not un- favorable if the disorder is early recognised and judiciously treated. In cerebral syphilis Jacksch has, unlike other authors, found material altera- tions in all his cases, but they are sometimes very slight. Syphilitic products in the brain are essentially to be regarded as new formations, which themselves undergo various changes, and induce the same in their vicinity. The most ordinary is transformation into a cicatricial, contract- ing substance adherent to the surrounding parts. The brain-substance at the diseased spot has generally disappeared, and is replaced by callous knots, less frequently by patches of softening, and still more rarely by cysts. The gummatous tumour is observed in its various metamorphoses in all parts of the brain and of its membranes, several of them may exist in the same brain. It is less usual for the brain to become secondarily affected from disease of the cranial bones. The cerebral nerves may be injured at their origins, or in their passage through the membranes, or by pressure on their trunks, or by disease of their own tissue. There is nothing peculiar in the symptoms of syphilitic cerebral disease. The mental disorders resulting from syphiHs are interesting, both those which are jjermanent, and those which are temporary. From 45 cases of the ' former, 6 of them his own, Jacksch has drawn up the following descrip- tion. They appear either as loss of memory and of imagination, or as melancholy passing into idiocy or into general paralysis, or as mania with tlic same results, or as delusions, or as primary paralytic idiocy, or as mere loss of consciousness. Of the 45 cases 26 recovered, 3 were im- proved, 2 remained unimproved, and 14 died. In the favorable cases the mental disease had lasted for the most part only some weeks or months, only in one instance more than 2 years. Araonrr the cases D