hepotit on toxicology anu materia medica. Oxalic Acid. Mr. R. Ellis relates (' Laucet,' i8(54, 2, p. 2^,5) a case of poisoniug hj oxalic acid in which recovery took place, "although the quantity taken was accurately ascertained to be very nearly an ounce. The subject was a woman, aged about 50 years, who swallowed the poison in some beer. The usual symptoms came on in a few minutes, and treatment was commenced within half an iiour. But few cases of recovery after so large a dose of this poison have hitherto been recorded. Iodine. A discussion appears to be going on in Italy between M. Bellini, of riorenee, and M. de Eenzi, of Naples, on the question whether iodine, ■when absorbed into the human circulation, can remain in the uncom- bined state, or whether it always becomes converted into iodic and hydriodic acids and their salts. M. de Pietra Santa, in a letter to M. C. Bernard (' Union Med.,' 20, p. 481), gives a resume of the chief points in this controversy. M. Bellini, who experimented on rabbits and on guinea-pigs, believes that iodine enters into combination as soon as it has been absorbed into the blood. M. de Eenzi opposes these conclusions; he places 2 or 3 grains of iodine in the mouth of frogs, and finds that the blood-cor- puscles, seen under the microscope, assume a yellow colour, which could only be due to free iodine. He also asserts that wlien iodine and an alkali are mixed some time passes before they combine so completely that starch-paper ceases to give the blue colour. MM. Bellini and Pacini dispute these facts, and they also say that results obtained from frogs are not necessarily applicable to the higher animals. They find that a kilogramme of blood ahnost instantaneously converts 4 grammes of iodine into iodides and iodates, without losing its alkalinity. Ac- cording to these data, 160 grammes (more than 5 ounces) of iodine could be at once converted into salts by the amount of blood in the liuman body. Now, 24 grains of iodine kill a rabbit in a few hours. A portion of the iodine is found in an uucombined state in the stomach, but the blood, the \irine, and the tissues, contain only its salts. It therefore, appears certain that death must occur in man long before the blood became so loaded with iodine that any of that element would remain in it in the free state. Bearing, perhaps, upon this question is a case recorded b}' Dr. Concato. He injected an ovarian cyst with iodine. In the evening the skin of the patient assumed a marked yellow colour, which lasted five or six days, and tlien rapidly disappeared. The conjunctiva was not coloured, and tliere Avas no evidence of any hepatic affection, but it was not conclusively shown that the coloration was not that of jaundice. Dr. Gillespie relates ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, 2, p. 488) a case in which death followed the application of a saturated tincture of iodine once to each side of the face over an enlarged parotid gland. In live hours vomiting and purging came on ; suppression of urine, great i