191 SUBJECTS OF GENEKAL INTEREST. less frequeut. The beueficial iuflueiice of the mountain climate is espe- cially felt in various forms of dyspepsia and dyspeptic hypochondriasis ; in the atonic diarrhoea, anremia and want of tone observed in people returning from hot climates; in tlie cachexia, with or without splenic tumour, caused by marsh malaria; in the various forms of ana3mia, clilorosis, and hydrremia, not dependent upon serious organic disease; in scrofulous complaints; in the tendency to tuberculosis, and in its first stage especially on the higher regions, while in the slightly ad- vanced forms some of the lower and more sheltered situations only ought to be resorted to; in chronic bronchial catarrh, with abundant secretion. Sleeplessness, hysterical and neuralgic afl'ections, as also hypochondriasis, are often removed by a stay on tlie Alps. The nervous system, "Weber states, is influenced in a very marked manner by a stay on the mountains, most people perceiving very soon a greater buoy- ancy of spirits, a diminished ii-ritability of temper, a greater calmness of judgment, and especially a sounder sleep. The changes effected in sleep is especially remarkable in many constitutions; I have met with a large number of persons who for many months had been deprived of healthy sleep, and who regained it almost in the first night which they spent on the mountains; and this change seems not to be caused by- mere change of scene and relaxation of the mind—it is certainly not in all cases caused by these influences. Thus, I am acquainted with a gentleman, a hard-working student and philosopher, who for many years past has been in the habit of spending the greater part of his holidays in one of the establishments on the Eigi; his principal com- plaint while at work in a university is want of sleep, lying hours in bed without being able to fall asleep, and frequently waking after having fallen asleep. This gentleman does not regain his sleep by merely spending his holidays away from home, on the borders of the Ehine, at the sea, or even at a place of low elevation in Switzerland ; but whenever he goes to a place beyond 3000 feet high he at once enjoys very sound sleep, and does so during the whole of his stay, and even for a few weeks al'ter his i-eturn to his usual occupation. This is by no means an isolated instance. On the other hand, there are some persons who never sleep well on elevated situations, though they have often made the experiment. MEissxjiii.—Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 313. Has a long report on trichina disease, to which, however, we can only refer, as the subject was noticed at some length in the last ' Tear- Book,' pp. 171—17^. A sequel and extension of the same is contained in vol. 124 of the same work, pp. 182—194, De Eicci, H. B,.—On the therajJciUic value of ilie Alkaline and Earthy Sulphates in the treatment of Catalytic Diseases. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sciences, August, 1864. Eicci gives 2 cases in which the administration of the sulphites was of great efficacy. The first was that of a lady, who appeared to have been poisoned by the emanations from a dead body, and in whom the aspect of the disorder at first was exactly that of epidemic cholera in the stage of collapse. The second was one of poisoned wouud of the