255 TUMOURS IN MUSCLES. to discriminate softer forms of encephaloid tumours _ from syphilitic swellings, when the skin is intact; and when we consider that opera- tions have often been needlessly performed for growths supposed to be cancerous, but which turned out to be syphilitic, we cannot be too careful lest we also commit like errors." Again, a cold abscess with thick walls will often puzzle an able surgeon. The author, therefore, considers that the exploring needle and iodide of potash will be found useful auxiliaries in cases of difficult diagnosis. Mr. Teevan discusses at length the treatment of muscular cancer; his conclusion is, that, " whenever practicable, a cancerous tumour in a muscle should not only be excised, but the muscle in which it originated ought to be cut out from its origin to its insertion. But if the cancer be of large size, or if the skin be affected, or if the wound resulting from the excision of the muscle would be of great extent, then the limb ought to be amputated, and the remainder of the muscle in the stump excised." Gr. L. Simmons, divided ten do Achillis united by silver wire (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 566). 0. Hueter on diagnosis of injuries of the biceps brachii ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' v, 321). T. Bryant, inflammatory thickening of the sterno-mastoid (' Med. Times j and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 614). Prof. Pitha, ossification of muscles ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 476). Dr. Bohn on hsematoma of the sterno- mastoid in infants ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 267). C. De Morgan on some cases of vascular tumour seated in muscle (' Brit, and Por. Med.- Chir. Kev.,' vol. xxxiii, p. 187). J. Bar, muscular paralysis from defec- tive nutrition (' Prag. Med. Wochenschr,,' 1864, p. 157, &c.). NERVES. Mr. Paget after relating some cases ofloeal paralysis, which appeared i to have been caused by injury of the nerve-trunks (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 331), refers to the treatment. "It must be somewhat different in the cases of simple paralysis and in those that are compli- cated with inflammatory hardening of textures, neuralgia, and other various symptoms. " Por the former the main design must be to maintain the nutrition of the limb, notwithstanding, its inaction. And for this purpose there must be provided, in addition to whatever may be required for the maintenance of vigorous general health,— " I. Constant warmth of the limb ; the whole body must be warmly clothed; the paralysed limb and its fellow especially so. No good or quick repair will take place in a cold limb. " 2. Eegular friction and shampooing, especially circular sham- pooing. " 3. Localized galvanism,- that every several paralysed muscle may be made to contract. " 4. Constant voluntary efforts; constant endeavours to attain every lost movement; and when any such endeavour is effectual, frequent exercise of the recovered power. " 5. _ Swedish gymnastics, i. e. set exercises for each muscle in which I power is not wholly lost.