81 NERVOUS SYSTEir. increased. This symptom seems to have yielded to quinine and opium, and by the beginning of July the disorder was at an end. J. LocKUAiiT Clarke.—0» the Pathologi/ of Tetanus. Lancet, Sep- tember 3rd. Clarke has made a minute examination of the spinal cord in two fatal cases. The first was that of a male, whose leg was inflamed, and presented a deep slougli, 4 inches long by 2 wide—the result of a fall. The actual cautery had been applied from the occiput to the middle of the dorsal region, the patient being under chloroform. At the autopsy the sheath of the cord was found natural in appearance. It had a reddish hue, owing to the fulness of the vessels on its surface. Over its whole extent the cord was covered with large injected vessels, which were nearly as thick as whipcord. They were near together, and ran more or' less parallel to the length of the cord. The white and gray matters were both congested, and the puncta were very con- spicuous everywhere. On examination of the principal parts of the cervical enlargement, after it had been hardened by long maceration in chromic acid, the following alterations were found:—The gray substance in particular was very much congested, and not only were the vessels unnaturally dilated, but each was more or less surrounded by a granular and originally fluid exudation, in which the natural tissue of the parts became broken down and ultimately dissolved. In some sketches which he gives, the following alterations are indicated:—In (f) a large triangular mass of exudation is shown at the bottom of the anterior median fissure, where it has destroyed a part of the anterior commissure. In (2) a large quantity of gi-anular exudation has enve- loped, and partially destroyed, some blood-vessels and the pia mater which supports them. The exudation extends to the left around the bottom of the anterior column, destroying a portion of the anterior commissure, and following the course of an evidently diseased blood- vessel into the middle of the anterior corner, where it has destroyed a part of the gray substance. In (3) the same kind of granular I exudation is found enveloping the pia mater of blood-vessels which I enter at the anterior median fissure. Very minute and numerous areas ! of granular or pellucid degeneration are scattered through the gray substance. Most of them may be seen to lie, as they probably all do, at the side of or around blood-vessels. In the second case, that of a girl, set. 7, some pain and inflammation were produced by a small ' wound on the ball of the toe of the right foot. Tetanus set in about the 13th day, and she died 12 days later. At the autopsy the pia mater of the brain was found to be slightly blood-stained in the neighbourhood of vessels, but to be otherwise healthy. The dura mater of the cord contained about half an ounce of blood-stained fluid. The vessels of the surface of the cord itself were greatly injected, especially in the lumbar enlargement. Its gray matter was congested. The remainder of the cord was more than usually vascular both on the surface and in the interior, but less so than in tho lumbar region. Kearly the whole of the spinal cord was submitted to Clarke for examination. To the unassisted eye nothing unusual 6 1