437 ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. nary matico, and tlieir under surface is less pubescent. The infusion resembles that made from ordinary matico in colour ; its taste is some- what more pungent and agreeable. Its chemical reactions^ are the same as those of the officinal drug. It contains a volatile oil, of peculiar odour; the best preparations of it would be an alcoholic extract and a tincture. The scarcity and dearness of ordinary matico at the present time, in consequence, apparently, of the American war, renders this new drug of importance. UitpJiorliacecB. Biciiius communis.—Mr. Tuson (' Journ. of the Chem. Soc.,' ser. a, vol. 2, p. 195) has discovered an alkaloid, provisionally termed " rici- nine," in the seeds of this plant. This substance crystallizes in rect- angular prisms and plates, has a feebly bitter taste, and is dissolved by water and alcohol, but is only slightly soluble in ether and in benzol. It is not the purgative principle of the castor-oil seeds. A similar alkaloid has been obtained by Mr. Tuson from croton seeds. Curcas piirgans.—In the 'Med. Tim. and Gaz.' (1864, i, 703) are recorded several cases of poisoning by these seeds (Physic nuts, Jatropha nuts), which occurred at Birmingham, where three or four sacks of the nuts were sold by auction. These nuts were left on the floor, and some boys, getting access to them, put some into their pockets, and, finding their taste pleasant, not only ate some of them themselves, but gave others to their friends. In consequence, 33 persons were taken so ill as to be obliged to be carried to the General Hospital. Some of them had only eaten 3 or 4 of the nuts, but others ate as many as 50. Symptoms came on in some cases in 10 minutes, in others not till 2 hours or i\ hours had elapsed. The chief effects were pain and burning in the throat; pain and distension of the abdomen; giddiness, vomiting, and drowsiness; and, after an interval, purging, tiie evacuations being copious, mucous, and not imlike the well-known rice-water stools. In some cases the depression was very great; in many there was dysuria; fever was always present as an after-effect. Dilatation of the pupils was believed to exist in those who took a large quantity of the poison. It was doubtful whether the drowsiness (from which the patients were easily roused) was a narcotic effect of the nut or whether it was simply caused by the great prostration. The treatment consisted in the ad- ministration of emetics and purgatives. Every case terminated in recovery. Scroplmlariacece. M. Mazel relates (' Jour, de Chim. Med.,' 10, p. 430) a case of poison- ing by infusion of digitalis, which was taken accidentally by a girl, fet. 22. The symptoms were those ordinarily observed, with the addi- tion of suppression of urine. She passed no water for 50 hours. On the 5th day she appeared to be improving, and she was getting up out of bed without assistance, when she was suddenly seized with fatal syncope. In a memoir presented to the Academy of Sciences M. Lefort (' Qaz.