GENERAL SYSTEM. 45 sembled bruises, were very distinctly marked, aud those previously quite light or almost imperceptible were readily observed. The disease does uot appear to be contagious, depressing circumstances favour its invasion. In some cases death ensues in 5 or 6 hours, in others life is protracted for .3 or 4 weeks. The greatest number die on the third and fourth days. iSTo class, sex, or age, is exempt; but it does not appear to be accurately made out, whether one is more liable than another. The mortality varies very much, amounting sometimes to more than 150 per cent., in others only to 3.3 or 2.5 per cent. There are no charac- teristic anatomical lesions, but simply such as result from an altered integrity of the blood marked by a disposition to escape from its vessels. Passive congestions, subserous eifusions of blood, occasionally inflam- mation were met with in the viscera. Other diseases, including measles, rheumatism, and typhus, are often complicated with this fever. "When the brain is involved the prognosis is worse than when the other viscera are alfected. All debilitating treatment seems to be injurious. Blisters have proved very serviceable. Opium, arsenic, and stimulants seem to have been the most useful remedies. Dr. Miner says that all those patients whose symptoms were promptly met with opium invariably recovered. G-AiBDXER, "W. T.—Fads and conchisions as to tJie me of Alcoliolio Stimulants in Typhus Fever. Lancet, March 12. Gairdner affirms that all the old pupils of Dr. Alison will recollect his constant and anxious instruction to the effect that in typhus fever, as well as in other diseases of a typhoid character, stimulants were always to be administered from an early period, without waiting for symptoms of debility, or for any other special indication, except the ascertained nature and tendencies of the disease. His practice, in fact, was essentially a routine, though not nearly so extreme or unqualified as that of Dr. Todd. Gairdner endeavours to show in his paper—1st. That it is possible to reduce the mortality of typhus fever, while with- holding a large proportion of the amount of alcoholic stimulants usually given. 2udly. That this diminution of mortality may take place at all ages, but is most marked amongst the young. 3rd]y. That while at all ages the administration of stimulants ought to be very strictly guarded as likely to prove injurious when [in excess, it is demonstrable that young and temperate persons may be advantageously treated—i. e. treated with a diminished mortality—without one drop of wine or spirits being given from beginning to end of the fever, except in the rarest casualties. 4tlily. That the principle of giving stimulants as a matter of routine in typhus—i. e. at a certain stage of the disease, with but little regard to individual peculiarities —ought to be at once abandoned, ^thly. That an approximation can be made to a more correct doctrine on the subject, though further researches are still required. 6thly. That there is reason to think that in most hospitals as well as in private practice, a very large needless expenditure is incurred through neglect of these facts, a secondary but not unimportant consideration. Tlie aggregate mortality of 595 cases occurrino' in regular succession (with the omission of a few) between November,