UEPOllT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 34 by direct irritation. Besides urea, hippuric acid, gljcocholate of soda, and the salts of iiotasli, suspend the rellex function. Tlie two latter alone paralyse the reilex nieclianism ; but hippuric acid, though it leaves itsenertty unim- paired, puts to rest any previously existing excitement. lianke "remarks that in tracing tlio effects of various fluids upon the different tissues by the method he has adopted, it is shown tiiat tiie effects of the same fluid differ for diflerent cells—may bo stimulating for one, depressing for another, or, as in the case of kreatin and lactic acid, may increase action in smaller quantities and diminish it in larger. It is shown also that substances hitherto regarded merely as excreta exert a powerful influence in the economy; the particles of the muscular tissue, immediately after their own activity, may become by their decay the exciters or controllers of succeeding action. ('Eeichert und Du B. Reymond's Archiv,' No. 3, 1864.) Chanc/es in Muscle during action.—Dr. Sarokow states that in the frog kreatinin is present in muscles with an alkaline as well as in those witii an acid reaction though to a greater extent in the latter. The quantity of kreatin in the muscles when at rest is almost twice that of the kreatinin. During exertion the kreatin is converted into kreatinin. There is also an absolute increase of kreatin. (' Virchow's Archiv,' B. 2, 1863, p. .544-) C. Neubauer, on the other hand, from experiments on tlie flesh of the ox, pig, calf, and sheep, arrives at the conclusion that no kreatinin is naturally contained in the juice of muscle, but that when it is found there it results entirely from the conversion of kreatin by taking up water. In fact, when kreatin is exposed in a closed glass tube containing water for 2 or 3 days to the temperature of a water bath, the fluid becomes alkaline, and very little kreatin is deposited on crystallizing. The mother-liquor treated with chloride of zinc gives beautiful crystals of that salt in its combination with kreatinin. Of kreatin Neubauer found in beef '230 per cent., in pork -171, in veal 'iSa, and in mutton, -184. ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1864, vol. i, p. 274.) VIII. METAMOEPnOSIS OF KA.TTEE. On tie influence of tie consumption of a large amount of Fluid on Ohesifg.—M. Daucel (' Comptes. Bend.,' vol. 58, 1864, p. 1149), in inves- tigating how to reduce extreme obesity, remarked that the absence of fat and fat-forming elements from the food did not produce emaciation if much liquid was taken. He was thus led to think that water and watery substances favoured obesity. Some l^xcts he has observed in the feeding of animals confirm this view. A lean cavalry horse was made the subject of the following experiment by M. Decroix. Its rations were diminished by 3lbs. of oats, without change in the amount of straw and hay. Water was "kept constantly accessible, and about i lb. of bran was mingled with it daily. In 27 days the horse had gained nearly 38 lbs. in weight, in spite of the change of 3 lbs. of oats for one of bran. In the same regiment there was a veiy fat mare, which sweated much on moderate exertion, and, like fat men, had unusually liquid evacuations. It drank much, nearly 60 quarts a day. The quantity of liquid was reduced to