EBPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDIOA. 484 has passed ofl", tlie sensations are very agreeable. Abundant perspi- ration is produced, and the slciu becomes red; the face is often very injected; but the determination of blood to the surface seems to prevent any tendency to cerebral congestion. The pulse ordinarily rises by JO or 15 beats. "When the patient leaves the bath he retires to bed, and remains there an hour or two. The urine gives out a terebinthine odour. The number of baths taken is from 15 to 20. The medical practitioners at the baths state that no case of pure uncomplicated rheumatism has ever left their establishment uncured. Muscular rheumatism is especially benefited. Lumbago almost always disappears after 5 or 6 baths. Bheumatic endocarditis and pericarditis are said to yield more rapidly to this than to any other form of medi- cation ; but organic affections, and palpitation of the heart, and the ha?morrhagic diathesis, are regarded as contra-indicating the employ- ment of these baths. It is doubtful whether this method of treatment does good in phthisis ; but chronic bronchitis is rapidly relieved by it. Dr. Ireland has himself several times visited Die, and he says that all patients suffering from obstinate rheumatism or bronchitis should, if they possibly can, betake themselves to that place. The season lasts usually from June to September. Piperacece. Culebs.—Prof. Bernatzik ('Prag. Vjrschrft.,' 81, p. 9) has made a series of investigations with reference to the chemical composition and physiological action of cubebs. All the active principles of this drug were found by him to be soluble in ether. The matters dissolved by this liquid amounted to 22 per cent. The residue was inodorous and tasteless. The ethereal extract is not adapted for medicinal use, as it gradually deposits a precipitate, consisting chiefly of crystallizable cubebin and of resinous matter. Pive substances altogether have been obtained from this ethereal extract of cubebs. The volatile oil may be distilled from it by the action of aqueous vapour. It is a pale-greenish fluid, which possesses the pungent taste of the drug, and has a slight odour, which is not unpleasant. Its quantity depends very much on the freshness of the drug from which it is obtained, as in old specimens much of it is con- verted into resin; but it maybe estimated at 10 percent. The oil derived directly from the fruit has been said to deposit crystals on keeping, but Bernatzik has in no instance succeeded in obtaining them from the oil obtained from the ethereal extract. The residue after the distillation of the oil is a brownish-yellow, resinous substance, which has a bitter taste, with but little pungency. One part of it is insoluble in caustic alkali. This is the cubebin of Capitaine and Soubeiran, which appears to exist in two forms, the one crystallizable, the other amor- phous. It contains no nitrogen, and is not an alkaloid. It is insoluble m water, and also in dilute acids and alkahes. It has been adminis- tered to patients suffering from blennorrhea by Dr. Eeder, and was found to be altogether inert. That part of the resin which is dissolved by cauetic potash consists