244. IIKPOIIT ON StillGEaY, Hospital, Qhristiauia, 186.3 (vide 'Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 186,3, ii, 468). W. Pettors oil broad coudyloinata ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, ])p. 205, 21,3). Dr. Kleiiiiiaus ou sypliilitic lierpes ('lierl. Klin. Woclieuschr.,' 1864, pp. 170, 181). T. Keade, the growth, progrews, and present state of knowledge of nervous syphilitic diseases ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. x.\xvi, p. ,324). H. C. Brodrick, ou sternal tenderness as a sign of constitutional syphilis ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' ix, 468). A. Dron on syphilitic disease of the epididymis (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 186,3,11,513,724). T. M'Call Anderson on syphilitic pemphigus in the adult ('Grlasg. Med. Journ.,' xii, 1,38). F. Mosler, case of leuco- cythsemia from syphilis ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 15, &c.). Congenital si/philis,—W. AUingham on the treatment of congenital syphilis (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 453). T. Bryant, disease of the testicle (ibid., 614). M. Boger on hereditary si/philis ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxv, p. 158).— The death of the child in utero and abortion are frequent consequences of the transmission of the taint to the foetus. AVhen three miscarriages occur in succession in the same woman, the presence of syphilis should be strongly suspected. The bodies of infants who perish under these circumstances are soft and flabby; the cuticle is detached, exposing the dark hue of the derma; the viscera also present signs of the infection. M. Depaul has described fibro-plastic or purulent deposits, which occur in the lungs ; the lobules are in a state of induration, which is considered characteristic by A. Guerin, and the liver presents a flinty colour and granular aspect, to which M. Gubler has called attention. Supposing, however, that pregnancy has reached its full term, the child may present, in addition to the appearances we have enumerated, and to others of a very serious nature in the thymus and periosteum, an external symptom indicative of syphilis, viz., pemphigus. This is the only secondary eruption which is not ushered in by any premonitory signs, and, although unfrequent, is viewed by M. Eoger as pathognomonic. It cannot be mistaken for simple pemphigus, which never breaks out before the sixth, eighth, or even tenth month after birth. The simple form of the disease is moreover discrete, whereas the syphilitic variety is abundant, especially over the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The contents of the bulla) are serous in the former and puriform in the latter, in which, in addition, the hand assumes a bluish tinge, and the complexion a cachectic hue ; the bullas display a tendency to ulceration, and a fatal issue occurs in eleven out of twelve cases, doubtless ou account of coincident visceral complications. These various circum- stances supply a sufficient clue to the diagnosis of syphilitic pemphigus occurring shortly after birth. When the hereditary taint is not thus immediately revealed by the appearance of pemphigus, no other external manifestations of syphilis occur for a fortnight. Thus, M. Cullerier has only twice in ten years observed symptomatic psoriasis in the first two or three days of extra- uterine life. The presence of the poison in the blood seldom gives rise to papular or pustular manifestations around tiie anus, in the inguinal region, or to specific coryza before the cliild is at least a fortnight old. Of 235 instances of hereditary syphilis collected by M. lloger, the