REPORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 412 is opened at a part where no adhesions exist. "When once the operator's iiuger has touched the intestine, he may proceed to detacli adhesions without any chance of mistake. (4) Multilocular cysts.—If the cysts be very numerous, and many of them large, it will greatly expedite the operation to cut freely into the largest with a scalpel, and then introduce the hand and break down their dissepiments. (5) Prevention of escape of cyst-jhdd into the abdominal cavity is of great importance, and this is secured by turning the patient well over on to the side opposite to that from which the tumour is believed to originate. During the removal of tlie tumour an assistant should most carefully keep the edges of the wound pressed together, and after its completion a piece of flannel should be at once carried over the wound beneath the cyst. If by any chance cyst-fluid should escape into the cavity of the abdomen, it is douUtful practice to do much in the way of attempting to remove it. (6) Management of the pedicle.—The advantages and drawbacks of the different methods are thus briefly summed up :—(a) The pedicle may be ligatured and returned into the abdomen, the ends of the ligatures being brought out at the wound. The advantages of this method are, that there is no traction on the pedicle, and by leaving the ligatures on they secure an open channel for the escape of pus, and also allow of their own safe removal when loose. Its disadvantages are that the sloughy stump of the peduncle, with its attached ligatures returned into the peritoneal sac, are very likely to set up peritonitis. (5) The pedicle may be tied as before; and then, the ligatures having been cut close off, the whole may be returned, and the abdominal wound closed. In this plan it is hoped that the external wound will heal, and the portions of ligature left in the peritoneum become encysted, and cause no irritation. Nothing but the large amount of success attendant on this mode can justify its adoption. Its disadvantages are the- extreme probability of peritonitis, and the risk of haemorrhage from slipping of the ligature, (c) The peduncle may be divided by the ecraseur. The time employed in thus dividing the peduncle and the risk of subsequent intra-abdominal haemorrhage are the drawbacks to this plan. Its advantages are, that it entirely obviates the dangers incident to dragging on the peduncle, and, at the same time, leaves neither sloughy tissue nor ligatures in the peritoneal sac. {d) The end of the peduncle may be kept altogether out of the abdomen, either by ligatures or by a metal clamp. The latter instrument has the advantage that it can be applied easily and speedily, and with greater security as regards haemorrhage. The most simple, and probably the best, is one which resembles a pair of carpenter's calipers, but from which the handles are removable. It should be pressed tight with great force, and the screw by which it is fixed should be screwed dovra by forceps, to prevent all possibility of slipping. It is a good precaution to push two or three needles through the peduncle above the blades of the clamp, and absolutely essential to cut off the tumour at a considerable distance above it. In cases where the peduncle is long and slender the clamp acts most satisfactorily, but in those in which the peduncle is short, and still more in those in