HEPORT on JIIDWIFKRY, tTC. 3S0 If it be remembered that the axis of tlio uterus is a Hue running from the umbilicus to the coccyx, it will be seen that by adopting the prone position this axis will be entirely inverted. DISEASES, ETC., OF TI[E CKILD IMPEDING DELIVEET. Dr. Gervis and Dr. Braxton Hicks, " Eeport upon the Case of a Child impeding Delivery " (' Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 4, p. 284). Extreme difficulty was experienced in tlie birth of this child after the passage of the head, owing to a great enlargement of the abdomen. Delivery was finally completed by traction, and the woman recovered well. The following report is given of the organs of generation :—The labia majora were very small. The vulva and vagina were wanting. The clitoris was prominent, and the urethra opened at its extremity. The uterus was greatly extended, globular in form, and contained about 15 oz. of flaky serous fluid. It presented two distinct cornua, which were closed at their free extremities, nor could any fimbria or other evidence of a Fallopian tube be discovered on either side. The ovaries were about half an inch in length, and attached to the side of the uterus at the base of each coruu. The uterus was divided internally into two cavities by a vertical septum presenting near the fundus, an oval opening permitting communication between the two sides, but there was no trrace of cither os or cervix, the double uterine cavitv being thus completely closed. There was no indication of au anus, and the rectum terminated in a cul-de-sac attached to the posterior part of the uterus. PLACENTA PBJEVIA. Dr. Greenhalgh, " On Placenta Previa " (' Obst, Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5, p. 140). Dr. Greenhalgh first alludes to the great mortality in cases of placenta prjevia, both to mothers and children, i in 4I of the former aud about two thirds of the latter, which he attributes mainly to the severe and repeated haemorrhages, to the delay in eftecting the delivery, and to the mode of turning usually resorted to in these cases. He then gives the history of 24 cases occurring in his own practice, and refers to statistics to show that the expulsion of the child generally takes place before the full period of utero-gcstation, premature labour being the rule and not the exception; that nature, unaided, frequently ter- minates the delivery with safety botii to mother and child; that complete and partial artificial separation of the placenta before the birth of the child has failed in many cases to arrest the hemorrhage ; and that these modes of practice and turning had proved most unsatis- factory. A close observation of the way in which nature terminates these cases with safety to mother and child is insisted upon, and the result of his observations enables the author to confidently recommend the following plan of treatmeut:—First, that in case of hemorrhage, whether profuse or not, occurring after the second month of utcro- gestation, and ascertained to bo duo to placenta prrevia, artificial pre-