385 CEANIOTOMY. Dr. Ryan uses the forceps once in about 9^ cases, and justifies this frequent employment of the instrument by the low rate of mortality resulting to both mother and child as compared with that observed ia cases of protracted labour where the forceps is either delayed or not used. Dr. Evan states that none of the mothers died in the 977 cases where the forceps was used, that there were no perineal lacerations, no vesico- vaginal fistula;, that the recoveries were strikingly rapid, and that after- illnesses were very rare. Of the children born at full term, and presenting naturally, 9 were stillborn in the 229 cases in which the forceps was not used, or i in 20^; while of the 977 cases in which the child presented naturally, and the forceps was used, only 62 were stillborn, or i in 488-|- cases. It should be added, however, that although it is stated that 49 of the loi cases in which the forceps was used were priraiparro, no mention is made—(i) of the proportion of the cases to the whole number in which the forceps was used in the second stage ; (2) of the duration of the second stage ; (3) of the exact circumstances in which the instrument was used. Dr. Halahan gives an outline, with carefully drawn up tables, of the cases in which the forceps and vectis were used in difficult labour, with the results, during the three years he acted as Assistant-Master of the Dublin Lying-in-Hospital. Of 3700 women delivered, the vectis was used in 22 cases, or i in 168 ; and the forceps in 56 cases, or i in 66. Of the 56 cases in which the forceps was used, 46 were primiparaj and 10 multi- part ; the labours lasting from 8 to 70 hours respectively, and the second stage from i to 18 hours. Of the mothers, 43 recovered and 13 died; but puerperal fever existed on two occasions in the hospital, and of the 13 deaths 4 occurred from this cause in one week. Of the children, 24 males and 16 females were born alive, and 11 males and 5 females were stillborn, i. e. respiration could not be fully established. In 22 cases the vectis was employed, the labours lasting from 7 to 65 hours respectively, and the second stage from 6 to 19 hours. Of the 22 cases, 17 were primiparje and 5 multipara). Of the mothers, 18 recovered and 4 died (one from puerperal fever). Of the children, 9 males and 6 females were born alive, 4 males and 3 females stillborn. Of the 78 cases in which the forceps and vectis was employed, interference was indicated in 58, for inertia of the uterus ; in 10 for disproportion between the pelvis and the liead, in 5 of which the crotchet was afterwards used to effect delivery; in I for eclampsia; in 3 for feebleness of the foetal heart; in 2 for threatened rupture of the uterus; in 3 for inertia of the uterus, with feebleness of the foetal heart; in i for posterior displacement of the right arm. There were two cases of face presentation, both stillborn. In all these cases there was manifest and imminent danger, calling for instrumental inter- ference, and Dr. Halahan thinks that the use of the forceps should be entirely restricted to such cases. CRANIOTOMY. Powell, T., "The Forceps in Craniotomy" ('Dub. Quart. Journ. ' Feb., 1864). ' Murphy, Prof., " On the Comparative Claims of Craniotomy and the 25