475 OCCUPATIONS. are brought into exercise. On the other hand, the cramped position is apt to cause pain in the chest and indigestion, and the continual noise is said, in some cases, to produce headache and giddiness. In the "West Eud, where the machine is less common and is less con- tinuously worked, its elFects are less favorably regarded. Delicate girls, unused to muscular toil, seem to be greatly exhausted by it, and some of them get old with great rapidity at this kind of work. Potters.—In a thesis, to which the gold medal of the University of Edinburgh was awarded. Dr. C. Parsons describes a form of bronchitis, simulating phthisis, which is very common in certain branches of the potting trade. It appears to be peculiar to the " hollow-ware pressers," and to the " flat pressers." These workmen are exposed, not only to great heat, but also to great changes of temperature. The Btoves are usually close to where they work, and many of the men have to carry the moulds into these stoves themselves. Moreover, the workshops are filled with a fine dust, arising from portions of clay, which fall on to the ground and are pulverized by the feet of the boys who are constantly running about. These circumstances appear to be the chief exciting causes of the disease, which resembles that found in other artisans. Besides black, indurated masses, the lungs usually contain smaller pieces of mineral matter, which has not been analysed, but is con- jectured by Dr. Parsons to consist in part of the fine dust inhaled, perhaps enveloped in a covering of phosphates, secreted by the mucous membrane of the air-passages. Manufacttirers of chromates.—M. Hillairet (' Bull, de I'Acad. de Med.,' 29, p. 345) confirms the statement that the men who are em- ployed in the manufacture of the chromates of potass are liable to per- foration and destruction of the upper part of the cartilage of the septum nasi (v.' Year-Book,' 1863, p. 457). It appears that MM. Zuber and Hermann (of Eixheim) had denied the accuracy of these observations. Verdigris manufacturers.—MM. Pecholier and St. Pierre have sub- mitted to the Academy of Sciences the results of their investigations aa to the health of the workmen employed in the manufacture of ver- digris ('Arch. Gen.,' Feb., 1864, p. 243). They conclude that this oc- cupation does not exert any prejudicial influence. They have not ob- served a single case of colic. That the poison is absorbed is evident from the fact that they have detected copper in the urine of the work- men. Among 40 of the women employed there was not a single case of chlorosis ; and they attribute to this metal properties similar to those known to be possessed by manganese and iron. Animals led on tlie residue of the grapes used in this manufacture, in Avhich a considerable quantity of copper is contained, suffer no ill effects, and become rapidly fat. The only evils produced by this occupation are slight forms of ophthalmia and other catarrhal affections, caused by the dust which is given oft'. Persons predisposed to phthisis and to other thoracic af- fections should therefore be kept out of the workshops. Workers in lead.—Dr. AVhitley has investigated (6th Report, &c.; Appendix, p. 350) the effects produced by lead and its salts on work- men who employ it in their business. The most serious of tliese effects