EEFOET ON SUEGERY. 318 the constitutional symptoms wcro the first ones that sliowcd thein- selves." -F. II. Ilnmilton records Iwo cases of hospital f/anf/rene, occurring wilh- otit previous icound ('Amer. Med. Times,' 186.3, i'i, i8i).~" Case i.— General Hospital, No. 4, Nashville, Tenn. Wcstley Frost, ofthe8';th 111 inois V^olunteers, was convalescing' from a severe attack of pneumonia, when, about the 23nd of March, 1863, a small vesicle appeared upon tiie front of his riglit leg, where the skin was perfectly sound, 'i'liis soon dried up, became black, and the sloughing commenced. This man had never had syphilis, or any other constitutional specific malady, but at the moment of his attack he was exceedingly feeble. There were at the same time two or three cases of hospital gangrene in an adjoining ward, but none in the ward which he occupied. On the 14th of April, when my attention was first called to him, the gangrene had been corrected by bromine, but the ulcer covered eight inches by four of superficial surface, and the shaft of the tibia was dead. Some time during the month of August, by the courtesy of the surgeon in charge of the hospital, I was permitted to remove tlie dead bone, which was found 13 include all, or nearly all, of the tibia intermediate to the epiphyses. I have seen him several times since then; and find the wound cicatrizing finely, and his general health steadily improving. "Case 1.—On the 26th of March, 1863, I saw, in General Hospital No. 7, at Louisville, Kentucky, a Confederate soldier, Travis Austin, with two large ulcers, one upon the right wrist and the other upon the right leg, near the ankle, both ulcers being the result of hospital gangrene, which had been arrested by the use of bromine, applied as recommended by Dr. Goldsmith. I was informed that he had not been wounded, but that he was admitted on the 15th of Februar}--, 1863, with purpura hremorrhagica. He had been living for a long time without fresh vege- tables, and he was no doubt scorbutic. The gangrene commenced almost simultaneously both upon his wrist and his ankle, as a small pimple, from which point it rapidly spread." W. O. Pryer observed two epidemics of this disease ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 4). In the first, "the disease would run its course some- what after the following manner:—A patient, whose wound would be progressing to a favorable result, would suddenly be seized by a chill, followed by fever: that is, by heat of skin, frequency of pulse, headache, loss of appetite, a furred tongue, constipation of bowels, &c. No sweating stage, however, was observed. The wound previously healthy, would assume an inflamed appearance, not immediately, for the constitu- tional symptoms would precede the local, by from twelve to twenty-four hours. The integument and subcutaneous areolar tissue surrounding the j wound then became inflamed, and infiltrated with serum, afterwards with pus, ancTthe sloughing would commence at the edges of the wound. Tlie skin itself resisted the sloughing process longer than the subcutaneous tissues, and for that reason the edges of the wound would become under- mined for some inches beyond the open surface, and portions of sound skin would project beyond the general circumference, giving the wound a ragged appearance. The sloughing would advance, both by eating away the edge of the wound and by penetrating deeper into the subjacent tissue;