182 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tives; nnd wliero irritability is present in the part we may find it diffi- cult to contrive a dressing which will perl'ectly suit the eruption. Sometimes a sedative, such as the acetas pluinbi, added to the ointment, relieves the irritability ; sometimes a more stimulating application, such as the uugt. res. flav., or the juniper tar ointment. At other times we may put an end to the irritability by pencilling the surface with a weak solution of the nitrate of silver in nitric ether. Again, we rarely fail to relieve the irritability by washing the part thoroughly with the juniper tar soap, drying it, and dressing and packing it up again as before. The erythematous form of eczema yields very kindly to the benzoated ointment of oxide of zinc; so also do the moist forms of the eruption, the dressing being aided bj^ moderate compression with a bandage. E. ichorosura must be followed up patiently with this plan of local treatment until the ichorous secretion ceases to be formed and the eruption heals. But the chronic forms of the disease, represented by ecz. squamosum, require a stimulant treatment. Washing with the juniper tar soap, dressing with the ungt. resiu. flav., pencilling with a solu- tion of nitrate of silver, or a strong lixivium of potash.* luthemoistforms of eczema there is always a considei'able quantity of serous lymph pre- sent in the tissues of the skin ; and until that serous iiuid is removed, either by absorption from Avithin or by excretion from the part, the skin cannot return to its normal state. It is to the presence of this fluid, infiltrated in the substance of the skin, that the chronic forms of eczema owe their thickening, their induration, and their rupture ; the latter giving occasion to fissures and cracks, and being most conspicuous where the skin is naturally thick and wrinkled, as on the hands and fingers or the feet, behind the ears, along the borders of the mouth and in the cleft of the podex. For this state of the skin in an aggra- vated form there is no remedy to compare with a solution of caustic potash. That application seems to purge the skin of its abnormal fluids, to promote absorption, and to give energy to nutrition ; and it is amazing with what rapidity the cracks will heal and the most chronic state of disease get well under this treatment. Meade, E. H.— On the treatment of Eczema. Brit. Med. Jouru., Dee. 17. Meade finds the most efficacious internal remedies are bichloride of mercury and antimony. The latter is more especially useful in acute eczema occurring in persons of a fall iuflaminatory habit, wlio are also, perhaps, subject to gout or rheumatism. Tartar emetic given here in combination with aperient salines and magnesia will often cure the complaint very quickly. We frequently see very annoying cases of eczema in oldish people, in whom the skin round the anus and about the scrotum or labia is aftected. The combination of bichloride of mercury and tartar emetic is particularly useful in these cases, effecting a cure in a week or two after they have resisted other treatment for 2 or 3 years. The dose of bichloride is gr. -jV to- die -f Ant. Pot. Tart, gr.'.^ in Dec. Sarza or Dec. Dulcamar. Eczema in infants is very bene- * Whenever these stronger local remedies are used, the eruption should be suhsd- quently dressed with the benzoated ointment of zinc, and then carefully packed uj).