ItEPOET ON MIDWU'EEY, ETC. 390 Part II.—DISEASES OF WOMEN. PnXSIOLOGY, ETC. Grohe, " A Case of a Uterus with Three Ovaries" (' Wien. Medic. Halle,' 1863, 4.3)- Trof. Simon, " Congenital Atresia of the Left Half of the Vagina, with Double Uterus and Vagina; retention of the Menstrual Fluid in the closed half, with contemporaneous Metrorrhagia of the open half" (' Mon. f Geb.,' October, 1864). The uterus and ovaries of a woman set. 40, who had been a prostitute, and had had three children, was seen hy Grohe. Dissection showed one large ovary on the right side, and two small ones ou the left, one of which was fixed close to the uterus by a ligament, while the other, further removed, rested on a fold of peritoneum. All three ovaries had exercised their functions. The author explains this rare anomaly, not by original for- mation, but by fissure formation, at an early period, through which the left ovary was divided into two. Simon's case is of much interest. A girl fet. 15 was admitted into a hospital for a tumour in the vagina. She had menstruated at fourteen, but only for three months. A tumour gradually formed at the external genitals, with abdominal and pelvic pains, and well-marked menstrual molimina, with difficulty of micturition. Eight weeks after the first appearance of the tumour profuse htemorrhage suddenly occurred, and her health improved. The pains ceased and the tumom* disappeared ; but on leaving her bed it returned with the same symptoms as before, with repeated hfemorrhages. Symptoms on admission—anaemia, praecordial and pelvic pressure, with abdominal and lumbar pain. The tumour became fluctuating, and caused pain and difiiculty in walking. Hasmorrhages occurred with the least bodily exertion. The tumour extended the whole length of the vagina, distending the uterus. On the right side of the tumour the finger could pass into the vagina, but the os uteri could not be reached without placing the patient under chloroform. It was then found in the extreme fundus vaginae. A sound was passed into the uterus without difficulty. The diagnosis was difficult, and lay between extra-peritoneal pelvic hsematoccle, and atresia of the left half of the vagina, with double uterus and vagina and retention of menstrual fluid in the closed half. With two fingers introduced at the same time into both halves of the vagina, an os and cervix uteri could be felt in each half simultaneously, and the septum vagina; in its whole extent was thus clearly established. Pressure on the tumour did not dmunish its size nor increase the flow of blood from the osseous portion. Hence no communication could exist between the tumour and the vagma. An incision was made in the tumour, and about six ounces of tar-hkc fluid escaped, which continued to pass for several days. The patient recovered well. Menstruation was normally established. Two months after, the aperture made by the incision had'becomo so small that two fingers could