IlKPOllT ON SUllOKliy. flosh wounds involving no ini]JOrtiinfc organ, are but little all'ected at the time, or may even be unconscious of having been hit, and at all events exhibit no well-marked immediate constitutiona} disturbance. In other cases, and particularly in wounds of graver nature, the patient instantly falls senseless, and so remains during a few minutes or many hours, re- viving again either completely, or suffering from a contiimed state of de- pression known as the result of sliock, and marked by the usual features of great weakness, feeble circulation, pallor, &c. In other cases these last- named symptoms come on at once, and without the intervention or accompaniment of unconsciousness. These very interesting states ot system may be due, it seems to us, either to an arrest or enfeeblement of the heart's action through the mediation of the medulla oblongata and the pneumogastric nerves, or to a general functional paralysis of the nerve centres, both spinal aud cerebral, or finally to a combination of both causes. Arrest of the heart movements is producible, as is now well known, by any violent irritant directly addressed to the trunks of the pneumogastric nerves, or to the medulla oblongata, and it is conceivable that such an effect may be brought about by any very severe injury of an external part. In fact, it has long been known that the sudden crushing of a limb in inferior animals will stop the heart or make it act slowly for a greater or less length of time. Now if we add to this M. Bernard's ex- periments, in which he showed that irritation of the posterior roots of spinal nerves suddenly checks the cardiac motions for a time, aud that like irritation of the anterior or motor roots gives rise to no such result, we shall be able to see how it is possible that a gunshot wound of a large limb may be competent to effect a like result. We should remember, too, that in nearly all these cases the hsemorrhage from large vessels, such as are usually opened by accidents of this nature, is sufiicient, even during syncope, to add to or deepen, so to speak, the effects of the reflected nerve impression. Where small vessels only have been wounded, this might not occur, but it is proper to state that men who have fallen senseless at the instant of the wound, frequently awaken after a time to find them- selves drenched with blood. Supposing such an arrest of the heart's movements to have taken place, a continuance of their stoppage, even for a brief period, would naturally give rise to cerebral ansemia, pallor, un- consciousness, and the remaining phenomena of shock. " Again, as we have said, a severe injury, as a gunshot wound of a limb or the neck, may produce its effects of unconsciousness and loss of power, by greatly weakening or for a time destroying with various degrees of completeness, the functions of all the nerve centres, and of their con- ducting cords. The influence of shock in thus causing temporary paralysis of nerve trunks is very well known to every experimenting biologist. Thus after opening the spinal cavity, it is very common to discover that the sensitive nerves are for a time unimpressible by stimuli. But, as a general thing, this is not so as regards the nerve centres within the skull, which are rarely so disturbed by the operation of uncovering them as to refuse all reply to irritations. The majority of physicians will no doubt be disposed to attribute the chief share in the phenomena of shock m its various forms to the indirect influence exerted upon and through the lieart. There are, however, certain facts, which, duly considered, will, we