CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 175 the external air has certainly free access to those situations in which fun^i are wont to occur, so that the germs of these formations are derived from without. He states also that a separate hair affected with parasitic growth, after being put aside for some time in a warm place, will sometimes exhibit a luxuriant crop of mycelial threads and sporules, while not a particle of fungus can be found in any other part of the field. This proves that the formations supposed by Mr. Wilson to originate from granular degeneration of living tissues will grow when' separated from them and deprived of any nutrition from the blood. The occurrence of a union of cells, as in the formation of the myce- lium, is without example in the epithelium of animal tissues. Secondly, Fox insists that it is impossible to admit the possibility of a conversion of an animal into a vegetable tissue, which he deems contrary to the law of limitation, by which tissues preserve their type. A degenerating structure loses its vitality alike in all its parts, and undergoes chemico- physical change; it cannot assume a different form and enter upon a new kind of life. Fox sums up his arguments as follows :—" Having regard to the law of limitation as it obtains generally ; to the vegetable nature of the parasites ; the differential attributes of animal and vege- table ; the effects of inoculation (the latter now succeeding, now fail- ing) ; the experiments of various observers, showing that nutrition is lowered in its standard in cases of parasitic disease, both in man, animals, and vegetables ; the experiments of Stilling on frogs ; the free existence of the germs in the air; the existence of fungi generally in the hard structures of animals ; the independent life of the parasite; the adaptation of certain soils to certain vegetations; the effects of treatment (a combination of local and general remedies succeeding best in tinea) ; the distinct evidence of the existence of a state of local mal- nutrition, before the appearance of any fungus, except thrush, potato disease, and the like—it appears certain that, in all cases of parasitic complication, two conditions are necessary—the presence of a suitable soil, which may or may not be appreciable to the naked or microscopic eye, and the implantation thereon of the germs of a parasite derived ab externo. These conditions may vary much in degree; the parasite may take hold upon the surface, and the soil may be too little deve- loped to nourish it; hence its death and disappearance. This explana- tion holds equally good in tinea, in thrush, in the instances of fungi found in the cavities of tuberculous lungs, the stools of cholera, or the ordinary shreddy discharges of muco-enteritis, as in the ordinary mouldy jam or oidial vine disease. The doctrine that the tissue of animals can retrograde into vegetable structures, like that of spontaneous gene- ration, shocks my mind and offends my reason." ZiEMSSEN.—Sycosis. Greifsw. Med. Beitrag., p. 99, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 298. The author's researches confirm the observations made by Kobner (respecting this disease and its relation to mycosis tonsurans, and lead him to the following conclusions:—There is a parasitic and a non- parasitic (inflammatory) form of sycosis. Tlic former depends on the development of a fungus which appears to be identical with that of 1