EEPORT ON PRACnCAL MEDICINE. 42 not a common occurrence for typhus to spread in so many of the general hospitals at one time, but this circumstance was due entirely to the unusual prevalence of typhus in all parts of the metropolis. He says it would not be diflicult to cite many instances of an older date, where typlius has spread in general hosjntals even to a greater extent tlian that indicated above; while since the comparison was made, the admis- sion of 2 or 3 patients suffering from typhus into ,3 general hospitals of London has been followed by an alarming and fatal spread of tlie dis- ease. Moreover, he proceeds, the time selected was far from being the most favorable to the London Fever Hospital, the rate of mortality being considerably above the average, and a large number of the nurses being unseasoned owing to tlie great reduction which had taken place in the hospital staif during the previous period of small prevalence of fever. During the 14 years immediately preceding the date of the com- parison, 3680 cases of typhus were treated in the Fever Hospital, but the disease was communicated to only 53 persons (nurses and patients) of whom 14 died. In other words, only i person caught the fever for every 70 under treatment, and only i died for every 263 under treatment. Moreover, many of the persons who caught fever in the hospital were patients admitted with other diseases, and who were formerly treated in the same wards with the typhus patients; many in fact caught typhus in consequence of the principle of isolation not being suffi- ciently carried out. Since June, 1862, the typhus-and scarlet-fever patients have been isolated from the other patients, and from one another, and the result has been, that only 2 or 3 have contracted either of these diseases in the hospital since the change was made. Murchison concludes that on the plan of isolation, provided there be ample ventilation, cases of infectious fever can be treated with equal advantage to themselves, and with far less danger to the attendants, in proportion to the number of cases treated. Report of the Vienna Sospital for i860, '61, '62. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 238. Geehaed and Lamb.—Epidemic of SjyoUed Fever occurring in the vicinity of Fliiladelphia in the year 1863. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., July, 1863 ; Brit, and For. Med.-Chir, Kev., Jan., 1864. The symptoms exhibited were sudden chill and intense headache, and pain in the back, followed by fever; the patient became dull and heavy, either not answering at all or only when loudly spoken to. In some cases there was delirium, but in the majority the cerebral disturbance tended rather towards stupor or coma. In fatal cases there was always coma a few hours before death. There was often vomiting at the com- mencement but no epigastric tenderness. There was constipation antl disgust of food; the urine was perfectly healthy; the degree of fever varied; the pulse was frequent not strong, and frequently diminished in strength and rapidity ; the heat of the skin was comparatively mode- rate. In some instances the patient exhaled a peculiar odour. The eruption consisted of spots varying in size from a pin's point to ecchy- mosos an inch or two in breadth. Each spot was of dull-red or purple colour, varying in shade; the lighter spots became somewhat lighter