UEPOllT ON MIDWIFEIiy, ETC. 386 CsDsarean Section in a certain class of Labours, with a new Pelvimeter" ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' May, 1864). Meadows, A., LI.D., " Difficult Labour ; Craniotomy; Utility of Dr. Earle's Pelvimeter" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' i, 1864, p. 204). I-—Mr. Powell advocates the use of the forceps in cases of craniotomy, after perforation, instead of tlie crotchet, and records two cases, in both of which a successful result quickly followed its employment after the crotchet had failed. The following advantages are obtained by this instrument:—(i) The avoidance of the failure and delay at times ex- perienced with the crotchet, and of all danger to the mother by the slipping of the crotchet, or of wounds by the pieces of bone. (2) The injury to the child's head is reduced to a minimum, and the appearance of the child is preserved. (3) Traction can be made with the forceps in the most efficient manner; while (4) the whole operation, including per- foration and extraction, may be performed in from 3 to 5 minutes, a rapidity unattainable with the crotchet. Mr. Powell considers Churchill's forceps the best to use after perforation. The advantages of this shape are—(i) That the widest part of the forceps, when in use, corresponds to the widest part of the child's head ; (2) the forceps passes much more fully arouad and above the head, thus preventing the possibility of slipping ; while (3) the blades in the act of introduction have a tendency to impinge upon, almost to hitch in, the fcetal structures, thus conducing very much to the safety of the maternal structm-es, and to safety in the use of the instrument itself. Its disadvantage is that it is more difficult of application than the old form, particularly when the head is high up. 2. —Dr. Murphy records two cases as evidence in favour of the rule adopted by him, that "in the'ovate deformity of the pelvis, if the conjugate axis be less than 2", craniotomy should not be attempted, but an effort made by the Cfesarean section to save the child." * Both cases were brought into the hospital to have the Cesarean section performed; but in both the children were already dead, and therefore craniotomj' was performed, as being generally considered less dangerous to the mother. In the first case great difficulty was experienced in the delivery. After perforation the crotchet was used without success, the head separated from the trunk, one arm was then brought down and traction made, but delivery could not be completed until the second arm was brought down. The cause of the difficulty was enormous distension of the fcetal abdomen from flatus. The patient was 53 hours in labour, was much exhausted and depressed, had bronchitis on admission, and died 20 hours after de- livery. The pelvis presented the ovate defonnity, and the conjugate diameter measured 2^ in. The second patient was 72 hours in labour, 4 hours of which vvere occupied in delivery. She died on the 7th day, from bronchitis. The conjugate diameter of the pelvis was 2^ inches. If the Csesarean section had been performed early in either of these cases, there would have been at least an equal chance of saving the mother. Dr. Murphy describes a pelvimeter which is very similar to that invented by Dr. Earle. 3. —In Dr. Meadows' case the patient was a primipara, and had been in * Murphy's 'Midwifery,' 2nd edit., p. 336.