462 HUPORT O.N I'OltKNSJC MKDICINK. Lirth, they do not prove that it died before birth was coinpleled. This is_especially shown by the observations of Bohr, who found ecchymoses of the thoracic viscera in many children who, having been in a state of asphyxia during birth, recovered, but died soon afterwards from some other cavise. Thus, a child extracted by him in consequence of a pro- lapse of the funis was born asphyxiated, but was restored by the warm bath, vvith cold affusion, only to die 3 hours later. In the body of this infant the petechial extravasations were well marked, and were evidently the results of respiratory efforts made before birth. In such a case a too rigid interpretation of these appearances might lead to the supposition tliat the death of the child arose from natural causes, and therefore to the acquittal of a guilty person. These cases are, however, rare; Krahmer appears to be riglit in considering the entrance of liquor amuii into the chest as far less injurious to the foetus, than these pul- monary congestions and hfemorrhages; and recovery after they have occurred is therefore probably not common. Children undoubtedly often survive who have sucked liquor amnii into the air-tubes during birth,, the fluid being expelled in the first few respirations which they make after being born. It remains to consider whether the value of the hydrostatic and other tests, in which the presence or absence of air in the lungs is used as a criterion of live birth, is in any way diminished by these observations. Small quantities of air are not unfrequently found in lungs which afford evidence of foetal asphyxia, but this is generally due to the fact, tiiat the child made its last respiratoiy efforts after its expulsion from the vagina, and then died. " The presence of air in the lungs of embryos who died before birth is a very exceptional occurrence; Schwartz only found it in 4 cases. Bohr's tables do, indeed, give 23 per cent, as the proportion of cases in which more or less of the pulmonary tissue con- tained air, but it then only occupied a very small portion of the lungs, and especially the middle and upper lobes of the right lung, which are generally the first portions of the organ to become inflated when the supply of air is scanty. Moreover, in all the cases of Schwartz operative means were used to quicken delivery, and it is probable that this facilitated the access of air to the foetal respiratory passages. In other cases the last inspiratory effort of tiie dying foetus occurs after its head has been expelled from the vagina ; and a third source of fallacy arises from the attempts at artificial inflation of the chest, which are almost always made in these cases with the hope of saving the child's life. In no one of the cases which form the basis of Bohr's tables could all these conditions be proved to be absent, so that his numbers have but a subordinate value. Now, the conditions under which birth has occurred in cases of suspected infanticide are almost always such that these causes may be left out of consideration with almost perfect certainty. It is true that it was not proved that the entrance of air into the lungs really arose in the way supposed" (it is only asserted that its origin from one of these causes could not be disproved); "and it must be admitted that cases have been related wliich seem to set at defiance the principles deduced from all other observation and experience. Such an instance is that recorded by TTecker, in wiiich the lungs of a child,