FOOD. 469 nitrous compouud. In this way a jet of water in the finely divided state may exercise a powerfal purifying influence on air, destroying the organic particles which it contains. The temperature of the air was also found to be lowered by —2° C. These observations were suggested to M. Morin by the arrangements made for purifying the air during the summer in the English House of Commons, WATEH. M. Eonssagrives ('Ann. d' Hyg.,' 21, p. 64) records the conclusions arrived at by a commission which had been directed to investigate the hygienic effects of the use of vessels coated on the inside with zinc for the preservation of water on board ship. It had been shown by a former commission that portions of metallic zinc placed in vessels con- taining drinking water are unaffected, unless part of the metal be ex- posed to the air. In this case the amount of the metal dissolved varies with the nature of the water. In experiments on the small scale distilled water acts more powerfully on zinc than does spring- water; while sea-water has a still more energetic action. On the other hand, when the vessels are large, sea-water is comparatively little im- pregnated with the metal. The surface of the zinc probably becomes coated with some compound which protects the vessel from the further action of the water; and, therefore, it has been suggested to place sea- water within such vessels, and to allow it to remain in them for some time before they are employed to contain fresh water. The compound which results from the action of water upon metallic zinc, appears to be chiefly the hydrated oxide, mixed in some instances with the cai'bouate. It is partly dissolved, partly suspended in the liquid. It would seem that new vessels are more acted on than those which have been in use for some time. The quantity of the oxide formed is, however, always small, not exceeding "07 gramme in each litre, and of this a part is deposited on the bottom of the vessel. The question whether water which has been kept in vessels lined on the inner svirface with zinc is injurious to the health is, of course, not decided by these observations. It has, however, been practically settled by some experiments which were made at Brest. Six convicts were, during four mouths, supplied exclusively with water which had been left for seven months in zinc vessels on board ship. No ill effects whatever could be detected. It may, therefore, be concluded that the use of these vessels to contain water on board ship is perfectly safe and incapable of affecting injuriously the healtli of those who employ the water. M. Boucher publishes (' Ann. d'Hyg.,' 22) the report of a com- mission as to the hygienic influence of the steeping of flax or hemp, with especial reference to the introduction of the cultivation of these plants into Algeria. The conclusion arrived at is that this operation renders the water injurious and unfit for drink if it is stagnant, and that even in the case of rivers and steams it causes " tlio disappearance, or at least the diminution, of the essential qualities of drinking waters." In all probability the process of steeping in stag^nant water also renders the air in the neighbourhood unhealthy ; but it is not likely that any