115 CmCOLATORY SYSTEM. these I'esults be obtained by acting chemically on healthy muscular sub- stance of the heart by any of the methods employed to form adipocere ? (i) All attempts to convert a definite quantity of muscular fibre into adipocere by a slow stream of water failed. "When the meshes of the net containing the weighed muscle were fine they became clogged, and prevented the free access of water, and the muscle putrefied. Coarser meshes allowed fragments of the softened tissue to escape. Incidentally a curious result was obtained. Some loose fragments of muscle laid in a dish with common water from the tap containing lime in solution Avere converted into adipocere. Some other similar fragments laid in distilled water underwent no such change until pieces of bone were laid in the distilled water, when the formation of adipocere immediately began. (2) A portion of the muscular substance of a heart which had previously been found to contain 2* 14 per cent, of fatty matter, chiefly margarine, was left to soak for 20 months in dilute nitric acid sp. gr. 1*42 (i to 16) in a stoppered bottle. At the end of this time the fatty matters were found to amount to no more than i*i per cent, of the 500 grains operated on. The mass had been changed into a substance having the smell and appearance of ointment of nitrate of mercury. The elements of the fat originally existing in the mass had been newly arranged under the influence of the nitric acid, part having assumed the form of an aromatic ether. Much of the fat had been destroyed, but never at any time during the process was there any evidence of the fat having been increased in quantity. The muscular fibres generally retained their form, clearly recognisable under the microscope. The fibrils were broken off short into minute fragments, but each of these displayed distinctly either the transverse striae or that longitudinal dotting which characterises the stage of granular degeneration already spoken of. Again, 250 grains of pure fibrine from bullock's blood, freed from all fatty matter by ether, were treated in the same way, and for the same period. Not a trace of fat, of any of the oily acids, or of the results of their decomposition, could be found on analysis. (3) A portion of the muscular substance of a heart which had previously been determined to contain 2 per cent, of fatty matter was left to soak for 8 months in dilute alcohol (i to 7) in a stoppered bottle. At the end of this time the mass was found to contain vg2 per cent, of fat and fatty salts of whatever kind. The fat seemed to have been destroyed to this extent by the process to which the muscular fibres had been submitted. To the naked eye the muscle thus acted upon appeared as a reddish flocculent mass, in which the dinsion of the fibres into bundles was indistinctly perceived. Under the microscope, however, all was obscure; a few granular fibrils could be picked out here and there, but the rest was an indistinct flocculent mass with something of a linear arrangement. It contained a few white opaque grains with a radiating structure, apparently composed of a soap of lime. No loose fat appeared anywhere, and ether had very little eftect in clearing the field. The inference from these observations seems to be that fatty degeneration cannot be artificially imitated by these methods. One step, indeed, adipocerous transformation and fatty degeneration seem to have in common—that which we recognise as the stage of gi-anular