309 EXTBACTION OP CaTAEACT. to such clanger. As regards its special indications, I some years back ('Arch, fiir Oplith.,' vol. ii, part 2, pp. 247, 348, in the year 1854) have said that iridectomy should always be performed if the operatiou itself has not gone ou smoothly; e. g. if, ou account of too small a flap, a comparatively too small opening of the capsule, or the outside of the lens adhering firmly to the capsule, the lens did not easily (jVule out, but had to be forced out with difficulty. Again, I attach importance to iridectomy -when, on account of imperfect apposition of the flap after the operation, the pupil has a tendency to get dragged towards the wound,' and thus to occasion prolapse of the iris. I also perform iridectomy where a hard cataract of the whole lens-substance occurs simultaneously with a small imperfectly dilatable pupil; where, on account of an unripe cataract, cortical portions of it may have to be either pressed out with difficulty, or even be left behind ; or where the former occurrence necessarily takes place on account of the toughness and cohesion of the cortical portions of the cataract. In any case, indeed, which especially runs the risk of an imperfect healing of the wound, iridectomy may be recommended as promising a better result, if circumscribed suppui'ation should occur." As to the proposi- tion to always combine iridectomy with extraction, Prof. Graefe men- tions some objections to this plan, and then remarks :—" These dis- advantages are, it is true, not very considerable ; but, as iridectomy is only advantageous in the minority of cases, and in favorable ones is most probably superfluous, weighing the pros and cons, together, I cannot make up my mind to perform it indiscriminately in all cases." W. Zehender discusses the form of the edge of extraction Jcnives ('Ophth. lleview,' i, 5). He says:—"In so delicate and nice an operation as extraction by the flap-incision, the weakest physical strength will more than suffice to completely obviate any such insuffi- ciency. But the more easily and equably the section can be made, the more certain will be the progress of the knife, and the less will the whole eyeball be compressed and drawn iipon by and during the section. This is the sense and signification which we attach to the above point. The great advantages of a well and evenly ground knife will be unhesitatingly conceded by all. And the advantages we are now discussing are of quite as much importance as these ; they equally aim at completing the intended operation with the minimum amoimt of force." He decides in favour of a convex edge ; " the centre of ciu'va- ture must, to attain our object, lie in a perpendicular to the widest part of the knife, or more correctly expressed, to that part of the edge which is to cut through the last piece of the cornea. The length of the radius of curvature is of subordinate importance, and may be regulated pretty arbitrarily according to convenience. The shorter this radius, the shorter will bo the entire blade, and vice versa. We have in oiU' instruments taken the radius at 4 inches, which gives with a maximum width of the knife of somewhat less than 3 lines, a very conveniently proportioned length." li. Schirmer on the spontaneous displacement of the transparent lens ('Ophth. Keview,' i, 69). E.Hart on cataract 'Lane.,' 1864, i, 405,6,31). M. Singer and E. L. Holmes, cases of pyramidal cataract (' "Wien. Med.