UIJPOllT ON SUltaJSttY. tioii, iitteuda during life tlic intestinal catarrh ; it is characterised by u rapid increase of temperature, which again at the approach of death steadily sinks below the normal. At the same time the respirations often become very fre(]uent; various nervous symptoms occur, some- times rather of a spinal nature, as clonic spasms or paralyses of the muscles, especially of the posterior extremities, sometimes depending on tlie sympathetic, as spasm of the vessels, more or less violent rigors, excessive peristaltic and antiperistaltic movements with crampy stric- tures of the bowels, sometimes finally in a cerebral form, as intense irritation of the brain, ascending even to mania, in the later stages as somnolence and torpor. These symptoms, though varying in degree, were constantly observed, when carefully filtered septic fluids (pus and serum of the blood)were employed. Even small quantities (two drachms) of a putrid fluid sufiice, in little animals as rabbits, or small cats, to cause violent opisthotonos, followed by rapid death. Further experiments were made with sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphuret of ammonium, and butyric acid, as the bodies principally i)roduced by the decomposition of pus or blood; ammonia also was tried,a substance already often injected (by Prerichs, Picard, &c.). The general eflfect of these sub- stances was the same as of putrid serum from blood or pus ; only in refer- ence to the nervous symptoms was there a difference, inasmuch as butyric acid induced somnolence like that of uraemic poisoning, symptoms indi- cating dulness and paralysis of the sensorium, great apathy, and some- times, though not constantly, slowness of the respii-ation; symptoms which did not arise from sulphuretted hydrogen or from sulphuret of ammonium ; yet the injection of butyric acid caused spasms of the parts supplied by the motor oculi or by the spinal nerves, indeed even opisthotonos. Extreme weakness of the posterior extremities was constantly observed after its use; on the other hand, the intestinal symptoms and lesions were far less intense, being indeed confined to congestion of the mucous membrane. The action of putrid serum from pus or blood is simulated especially by the injection of a solution of Bulphui'etted hydrogen, even in very small quantities. The syinptoms then most closely resemble those of cholera; especially does the tem- perature, which is at first increased, sink to a low point in company with extremely profuse rice-water evacuations from the bowel. Death with violent opisthotonos occurs, when the action is very intense; if the animals rally, we notice vomiting, discharge of urine and faeces, quickened respiration, spasmodic twitchings, sometimes rigors. The sulphuret of ammonium does not act so powerfully; the symp- toms are much the same as after the use of sulphuretted hydrogen, except that rigors are always noticed. The three substances examined are, like putrid organic fluids, very powerful poisons ; the most so is sulphuretted hydrogen. Rabbits died immediately after the injection of a drachm of water saturated with sulphuretted hydrogen; it was indeed found that the injection of a drachm of distilled water with two drops of a saturated solution of this substance was suflicient to kill at once a rabbit, and two drachms of water with three drops of the solution to kill a little cat in six hours. A large cat became very Ul after the injection of two drachms with two