HESPIllATOBY SYSTEM. 137 their neighboiirliood, aud some of tliem did this with due accuracy. (Icehmd has onlv 8 medical men, but i8o clergymen, who are mostly well educated and capable of contributing to the vital statistics of the country.) From these accounts it was clear enough that nearly all the patients wlio were without any medical aid died in 3 to 6 days. Thus, in the parish of Gardor, with about 1200 souls, aud where medical aid could seldom be had, out of 24 patients 17 died. In the parish of Utskalar, witli 900 souls, where 19 fell sick, and where medical aid could not be obtained, 11 died. In the parish of Kalfabjorn, with 800 souls, nearly all the affected, their number being 14, died ; and such has the result been everywhere in all those parishes vrhich have been destitute of medical interference." Hjaltelin, in the beginning, made use of the lancet with some hesitation; but experience very soon taught him that bloodletting was more necessary in this sort of pneumonia than he had anticipated. The insupportable pain beneath the right nipple, across the chest—the great dyspncea, which in some diseased seemed to threaten with imminent danger—the disturbed balance in the circulation—were generally greatly relieved; and the hard, incom- pressible, but often irregular, pulse, became more regular after the loss of 8 to 12 oz. of blood. The relief thus obtained was not always momentary, but could last for several hours or even one day; and although the rapid and dangerous pulmonary congestion could by no means be subdued by this remedy, it was evidently of great service to calm the storm until it could be lowered by other means, as by the use of calomel, which I in all dangerous cases, according to my former custom, made bold use of until the gums began to be a little touched." Hjaltelin states that up to the year of this epidemic he had not lost a single patient in pneumonia. The calomel was given in 2-grain doses combined with a little opium, every second or third hour, according to the severity of the case. In most serere cases each dose was combined with half a grain of tartarized antimony. This treatment was continued only until the gums were slightly affected; it was then stopped, light but nourishing diet ordered, the patients kept well covered in bed, and, if possible, the room heated by the vapour of hot water. Augmentation of the chlorides in the urine was constantly observed as a consequence of the administration of calomel, and Hjaltelin is inclined to consider that the drug was the cause of the excretion. Chloroform inhalation, short of producing complete antesthesia, was of use to lessen the painful cough and the sensation of pain in the chest. When there was a con- siderable pleuritic effusion Hjaltelin sometimes used blisters, but more commonly the iodized hydroiodic ointment of Prof Delioux, which he found very effectual. In pleurisy warm fomentations of pure water, in which a good deal of carbonate of potash is dissolved, were always found very serviceable. jReport of iJie Tienna Hospital for i860, '61, '62. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 244. The pneumonic cases amounted in i860 to 189, in 1861 to 334, and in 1862 to 272, forming a total of 795, of whom 552 recovered, while 177 died. The mortality was greater among females than males, that 1