llEPORT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. 110 knowu beneficial influence of typhus in insanity may be quoted as au analogous operation. AVixiiAMS, S. "W. O., MJy.—Bemarhs on the refusal of food hy the Insane. Journ. of Ment. Sci., Oct., 1864. "Williams distingftishcs an asthenic form and a sthenic. In the former recourse must be had to treatment immediately, the least delay is most pernicious. The bowels are to be thorouglily cleared of scybala by ail enema of castor oil and turpentine, after which the patient will often fall into a refreshing sleep, and on awaking take his food willingly. If he does not, he must be fed forcibly. Hydrocyanic acid is often of great efficacy. In the sthenic form there is generally mania, and always pertinacious insomnia. After constipation has been removed, or diarrhoea arrested, we must not delay more than 48 hours before (if persuasion fliil) we resort to forced alimentation; for if we wait much longer the symptoms soon assume all the characters of the asthenic type. Timely administration of nourishment prevents all this, and allows of a medicinal treatment being initiated. This should consist in the energetic administration of opiates and the use of the hot bath, with cold applications to the head every evening. Williams prefers a spoon and india-rubber bottle to the stomach-pump and nasal tube, aa safer appliances, there being no danger of sending the food into the lungs or of piercing the aorta, which have happened with the ; latter. MTJSCTJLAE SYSTEM. Baeeee, E.—Progressive atrophy of tlie Tongue and Muscles of Speech. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc, 1864, p. 359, vol. 4. The patient was a male, set. 51, who had enjoyed excellent health till May, 1859, when a slight difficulty of speech, accompanied _ by general'failui-e of health and strength, induced him to seek medical advice. ' These symptoms, without any apparent cause, with the addition of impairment of deglutition, continued to increase ; and in the follow- ing September, after some months' residence at the seaside, the tongue had assumed the following remarkable appearance—small and shrunken, it lay low in the floor of the mouth, and over its whole surface was noticed an unceasing tremulation of the fibrils of its muscular struc- ture ; it had lost its bright healthy hue, and was of a pale-yellow colour. The face had also lost its ordinary expression; the cheeks and lips were flaccid and himg down. Saliva frequently dribbled from the mouth. No symptom whatever of irritation of brain or spinal cord was ever present, but the muscular tissue in different parts continued to waste and degenerate with unrelenting pertinacity. Gradually articulation became unintelligible, and deglutition impossible. The fibrillary tremors so noticeable during the wasting of the muscles ceased with their destruction. From the tongue to the muscles of deglutition, thence to those of the upper and from these to the lower extremities, the dis- ease extended. At length the intercostals were aflected; and the breathing consequently became at times much laboured, as each morn- ing brought increasing difficulty in the necessary expulsion of mucus