389 thansfusion. vomiting occurred soon after the operation, repeatedly causing the escape of nearly' the whole of both large and small intestines. Acute peritonitis succeeded on the third day, and discharge of pus went on through a large sinus until the 27th day after the operation, when an acute abscess formed. Three days later a pint of fetid pus was discharged through the sinus ; after this, convalesence was rapid, and the woman and child—both in good health—were dismissed on the _46th day after the operation. Opium and ammonia were given freely, with beef tea, milk, and brandy ad libitum. TBANSFUSIOK. Dr. Aveling, "On Immediate Transfusion" ('Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5, 1865, p. 126). Dr. G rally Hewitt, "Apparatus for the performance of Transfusion" (ibid.). ■ Dr. Aveling gives a brief history of the operation, and submits an in- strument for its performance. This consists of two small silver tubes to enter the vessels, and of an india-rubber pipe by which they are united, and which has in its centre an elastic receptacle holding about two drachms. It is without valves, and is simply a continuous pipe with an expanded portion in the middle. The author suggests the following plan in operating:—While an assistant prepares the arm of the person who supplies the blood, an opening is to be made in the vein of the patient. The emitteut vein is then to be opened as in ordinary bleeding, and the round-pointed tube inserted downwards. If the instrument be now held slanting upwards the blood will flow into it and expel the air. Lastly, the bevel-pointed tube is to be inserted into the recipient vein, and the blood may then be made to circulate through the pipe in the following manner:—If the pipe on the emittent side and the receptacle be compressed the blood will be thrown forward into the recipient vein. If, on the con- trary, the pipe be compressed on the recipient side, and the receptacle allowed to expand, the blood will be di-awn into it from the emittent vein. This part of the operation should be perfonned slowly. Each silver tube should be held in its place between the finger and thumb of an assistant. All other points should be managed as in the ordinary operation. The advantages of this immediate method of transfusion are —(i) The chances of coagulation are small—(a) because the blood glides through the pipes and comes in contact only with a thin coating of coagulated blood ; (J) because the blood is removed from the action of the living vessels for only a few seconds; (c) because the blood is not exposed to the air. (2) The apparatus is effective, simple, portable, and inexpensive. And (3) The operation is safe, easy, uninterrupted, and a close imitation of nature. Dr. Hewitt's instrument is the same as that exhibited and described by him at the Bristol Meeting of the British Medical Association.