82 EEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Dr. Luys holds that tlie cerebellum is the generator of a special nervous force, incessantly produced by its cortical substance, and distri- buted to the motor regions of tlie cord. Thus he accounts for the various derangements of motion which ensue upon destruction or division of its fibres. The cerebellar influ.Y keeps the elements of the spinal cord, as it were, continually charged. The influence of the cere- bellum also, transmitted through the corpus striatum to the hemispheres, may be_ the source of the consciousness of muscular power—of the sense of ability to act. And pathology (cases of physical excitement with congestion of the cerebellum, reported by Calmeil, and of extreme pusillanimity with degeneration or non-development of tiiat organ, reported by Andral and others) seems to indicate that the vigour of the mental character is greatly determined by the functional activity of the cerebellum. The Retina, as analysed hy the Stereoscope.—Z. Towne reports experi- ments designed to show that many phenomena of vision ascribed to mental agency are really due to structure, and prove identity of sensa- tion in corresponding parts of the two retina?. The experiments re- lating to colour, by Meyer, Dove, Briicke, Helmholz, and others, consist in simultaneously presenting difterent colours to the two eyes, regarding each retina as a whole. Mr. Towne's method is to present the different colours to corresponding halves of the retinae. A stereoscopic test for the retina is applied by means of slides so adapted as to separate the great tracts of the retina, thus allowing the condition of each part to be critically observed. Not only does identity of action and of sensation exist between corresponding tracts of the two retina?, it exists also between very minute portions. The theory of identical points, how- ever, would seem to require that the images referred to corresponding parts of the retinse should perfectly agree, which is not always the case. With reference to this point, it is shown that images differing consider- ably in magnitude, if their colours are identical, will blend and appear as one ; while, on the other hand, images identical in form and sub- mitted -to identical parts of the retina will, the" colours being dis- harmonious, appear double and distorted. In monocular vision there is nothing analogous to this; the two halves of each retina being entirely distinct. (' Guy's Hospital Eeports,' 1862, ,33, 34.) Development of Heat hy Nervous Action.—Valentin has made experi- ments, using the sacral plexus of the frog, to determine afresh the question whether the activity of a nerve or nervous centre raises its temperature, which Helmholz's experiments left doubt- ful. By the use of a very delicate thermo-magnetic instrument he established that electrical or mechanical irritation of the spinal cord raised the temperature both of the cord and the nervous trunks. The heat rose for some minutes after the irritation, and was increased by repetitions of it. In a medium experiment it rose "078° C. (1-4 F.). There is no doubt that a nerve-action, determined, not only by means of electrical, but also by means of mechanical irritation of the spinal cord, has for its efiect a demonstrable elevation of temperature in the sacral plexus and the sacral nerves. The temperature con- tinues to increase by radiation, and its exact amount cannot yet be determined. ('Virchow's Arch.,' v. 28, p. 49 )