233 PATHOLOGY OF TETANUS. " Althout^h I shall abstain from giving any decided opinion on the exact nature of the morbid action in tetanus until I have examined more cases, the plan of treatment whicli I should try would be the fol- lowing :—Division of the wounded nerve as early and as high up as possible; cupping along the course of the spine; frequent doses of calomel combined with opium; and potassio-tartrate of antimony, repeated, during the severe paroxysms, at short intervals and in suffi- cient quantity to produce nausea, or perhaps vomiting. The chief object of the tartrate of antimony is to subdue the spasms; but it might also assist in arresting the morbid action of the blood-vessels. Some years back, in the columns of this journal, I recommended the use of tartrate of antimony in those violent and prolonged paroxysms of hysteria which are so intractable and distressing, and I have never known it fail. As soon as nausea supervenes, the spasms, however violent, begin to relax; and if the paroxysm be excited or prolonged by the presence of undigested food in- the stomach, the vomiting will prevent its recurrence. In tetanus, any depression that might be caused by the antimony w^ould be much less than the exhaustion of the nervous system resulting from the violence of the spasms. " I shall be glad to receive the spinal cords and medullas oblongatee of any patients that may die of tetanus. If they cannot reach me imme- diately, they may be cleanly cut with a sharp knife into pieces about an inch long, and preserved in a solution of chromic acid, in the proportion of I part to 300 parts of water. I shall also be glad to receive cords belonging to cases of muscular atrophy or 'wasting palsy.' " a. Demme on curare as a curative agent in tetanus (' Schweiz. Zeitschr. fiir Heilk.,' ii, 356).—In this paper the author recapitulates all that has yet been discovered in regard to the chemical, pharmaceu- tical, and physiological properties of curare, discusses at length its appli- cation to tetanus, and relates three fresh cases of the traumatic form cured by its use. According to him, there have hitherto been twenty-two cases treated by this means, and of these eight recovered. J. AV. Ogle, case treated by nicotine (' Med. Tim. and Graz.,' 1864, i, 277). J. R. Barton, case of traumatic tetanus, nicotine, death ('Dubl. Med. Press,' July, 1863). H. J. Tyn-ell on the treatment of tetanus by the local application of tobacco ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,* 1864, ii, 326); a case treated successfully by this means (' Dubl. Med. Press,' 1864, p, 213). Mr. Cam, case treated by aconite and nicotine ('Med. Jahrb./ vol. 112) :—i. The constant, anatomical character of tetanus appears to be proliferation of the connective tissue; the most striking peculiarity of this lesion is the extent over which it is found. 2. The product is a viscous mass, abounding in nuclei; it remains at this stage of development in both acute and clironic cases, never progressing to the formation of fibres. 3. This change is found almost exclusively in the white medullary substance ; the gray matter seems to suffer only secondarily, and then from compression rather than from interstitial deposit. 4. The proliferation is not always followed by corresponding swelling of the white matter; it can often be recognised only by means of the microscope. s- I* was principally found in the medulla oblongata, the crura cerebri, the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum, and in the greater part of the spinal cord. 6. This hision of the connective tissue appears to be due to long-continued or repeated congestions. 7. The period, at which it occurs, probably varies in different cases. Prof. Wagner has also noticed these changes ('Ycar-Uook,' 1862, p. 219).—T. W.