254 llEPORT ON SURGEllY. MUSCLES ; TENDONS. TV. Webster, resection of one inch of an imperfectly united tendo AcJiilUs, and successful treatment hy sutures (' Ainer. Med. Times,' 18(54. ii, 117).—The tendon ruptured while the patient was running a foot race. Three months later there was au intervening gap between tlic divided ends, of about an inch in length, where but little plastic matter seemed to have been poured out to fill up the space. The unitin" band was so elongated and weak as to render the limb powerless in progression. " I resolved to expose the parts by a free incision, remove the slight connecting medium, pare the retracted extremities, and en- deavour to unite them by the introduction of sutures of silk. The operation of bringing the severed ends in contact after the removal ol' the intervening substance was attended with considerable diificulty. This, however, was accomplished by placing the limb in a thoroughly relaxed position, and inserting two strong ligatures through the ends ol the tendon about three lines from the extremities. The ])arts were thus approximated, and the relaxed position of the limb was maintained by an apparatus consisting of a ring of leather placed around the thigh, above the knee, from which a cord was attached to a loop in the back of a slipper. The gastrocnemii muscles were also surrounded by a firm bandage. This apparatus was used for six weeks, when the patient was allowed to walk about, wearing a high-heeled shoe, for three weeks longer. After having tied the ligatures one end of each was cut off, and the others withdrawn, as practised in the ligation of vessels. The incision was then united its entire length (which was about three inches) in the most exact manner possible. The ligatures were removed on the twenty-fifth day, and during the greater part of that time the wound discharged purulent matter. The fourteenth week after the operation the patient walked with scarcely any lameness, and the tendo Achillis appeared to be perfectly united." W. F. Teevan on tumours in voluntary muscles, luitli an analysis of sixty-two cases, and remarhs on the treatment ('Brit, and Tor. Med.-Chir. Eeview,' vol. xxxii, p. 504). — Out of the 6a cases, in which the growth originated in the body of the muscle, the relative numbers were—cancerous, 21 ; fibrous, alone and in combination, 16; cystic, 8; hydatid, 5 ; erectile, 5; osseous and osteoid, .3 ; doubtful nature, 3 ; myeloid, i. The muscles of the lower extremitiy are affected almost as often as those of the upper limb ; but with this difference, that in the latter the tumours are almost entirely confined to the pec- toralis major, deltoid, and biceps, whereas in the former they are very equally distributed. The muscles of the trunk, head, and neck Avere rarely the seat of tumours, with the exception of the rectus abdominis, which would appear very subject to them. There is a class of swellings in muscles, the result of constitutional syphilis, which may simulate other growths, and so lead to probable error in diagnosis. Cases of this kind have been described by Mr. Tntum, M. Nekton, M. Bouisson, and others. " The greatest ex- perience, and the most consummate diagnostic tact, will sometimes fail