NEEVOUS SYSTEir. 89 pendent comcident pulmonary disorder, as be observes tbat such accele- ration of the breathing and of the pulse have not occurred m any re- corded case of disease of the pons. Tlie derangement of co-ordination indicates that tlie cerebellum was involved. IIexoch and Steffek (Berlin Klin. "Wocbenschr., i, 1,3, 20, 1864; Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 24) record cases of tuberculosis of the cor- pora quadrig. Henoch's case was that of a girl, aet. 15 mo., who had tuber- culosis of the lungs and bronchial glands after measles. While in this condition both superior recti muscles of the eyes became paralysed; then followed vomiting, somnolence, paresis of the right arm, of the palpebral and labial filaments of the right facial nerve, and of the right external rectus; occasional twitchings of theimuscles on both sides of the body, and frequent loud cries ensued, and the pulse, which at first was slow and irregular, became very frequent and regular, while the respiration was much accelerated. At the autopsy there was found tuberculous basilar meningitis, the ventricles were distended with clear serum, but were in other respects normal; in tbe left posterior quadrigeminal body there was a round, yellow, homogeaeous tubercle, half the size of a bean ; the cerebral substance around this and everywhere else was normal. The absence of convulsions aud of blindness is remarkable. The occurrence of palsy of both recti muscles, as the first symptom, is re- garded by Henoch as the result of the pre-existing cerebral lesion, and not of the meningitis. Stefi'en's patient was a boy, set. 3 years, who was admitted with ptosis of both eyelids, while the movements of the globes were normal. He had also pulmonary tuberculosis and severe headache. A month later eclamptic attacks occurred, diffused over the whole body, recurred more and more frequently, permanently dulled the sensorium, and caused death in four weeks. The brain and its membranes were in every part full of blood; the latter was rather soft, but otherwise normal; only the corpora quadrigemina were changed into a broken-up yellowish mass, which proved to be tubercle. The tissueinthe vicinity of the corpora quadrigemina was normal. No tubercle in the meninges. In this case it is difficult to account for the paralysis of the branches of the third nerve distributed to the levat. palp., but the convulsions may fairly be referred to the state of the quadrigeminal bodies, especially as the rest of the brain was healthy, and experiment has shown that mechanical irritation of these parts produces convulsions. Edwaeds.—Glasgow Med. Journal, April, 1864. Eecords a case of abscess in the cerebellum, occupying the centre of the left lobe, and holding about sij. The membranes appeared healthy. The upper and back part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone was carious; there was pus in the tympanum, vestibule, and semicir- cular canals. The patient was a boy, tot. 19 ; his symptoms were shiver- ing, sickness of stomach, pain in the head and right ear, convulsions, recurring strabismus, stupor, and turning round and round from right to left. He died while thus turning. JoxES, T.—Observations on Cerebral IIcemorrhage,from an analysis of 40 fatal cases. Brit. Med. Journ., June 18—Dec. 3.