272 ItEPORT ON SURGERY. "There is sufllcient iu tlieae structural characters to prove the occur- rence of a form of tumour whicli, so far as I know, lias not liithertu been described; but tliere is not enough of wliat is definite to juHtifv the giving of a new name. More specimens must be examined'befoic this can be safely done. Meantime, it may be held that moles arc even more than has been supposed, apt to be the seats of the growth of tumours, and that among the tumours likely to be found in or bencalli them [are some which are neither epithelial nor nielanoid cancers, and whicli, probably, are not cancers at all. One of the cases, indeed—tlic second—has now remained well, without any recurrence, for more than four years after the removal of the tumour—a period much longer, almost certainly, than tliat which would have elapsed after the removal of a deep-seated epithelial or a melanotic cancer." W. Fergusson on tTie removal of skin in iJie excision of tumours (' Lane.,' 1864, i, 691).—" In the removal of tumours which are promi- nent on the surface, it is a common practice to include an elliptical portion of the skin. Now, excepting in instances of cancer where this texture is involved, and a few rare exceptions, I consider thia to be a great error. Por cysts on the scalp of or above the size of a walnut, this practice may be said to be the rule; yet the loose bag of scalp, if one is left, will very speedily contract to its natural dimensions, while when an ellipse is taken away there is apt to remain a broad, white, bald cicatrix. In removing an enlarged testis, the custom is to take away a portion of skin too; j-et the scrotum is so contractile that soon after, although only a slit be made in the skin, it will appear less voluminous than on the untouched side. The contraction of the skin in this locality is well exemplified in instances of large hydroceles where, after the radical cure, the scrotum soon assumes its normal size. It is seldom, indeed, that I remove any portion of the skin when it is merely stretched and attenuated over the disease." E. Virchow and Prof. Breslau on the statistics of tumours ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. xxvii, p. 425 ; vol. xxviii, p. 556). C. 0. Weber on the implication of the vessels, more especially of the capillaries, iu tumours (1. c, vol. xxix, p. 84). N, Friedreich, cases (1. c, vol. xxvii, p. 375). M. Nelaton on the destruction of tumours by electri- city (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, pp. 520, 530). T. Billroth on the origin of fibroids ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' iv, 545). A. Hermann on sarcomatous tumours ('Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, iii, 71). H. W. Berend on congenital tumours, ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 243). C. Kiittuer on cavernous tumours ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 202). M. Gossehii, hematic tumour of the buttock—cyst with a fibrous wall (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1864, p. 58). B. Holt, large serous cyst protruding beneath Poupart's ligaiuent, &c. ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxiv, p. 41). JIALIGNANT TUMOURS. H. C. Bastion on tJie mode of origin of seconctary cancerous (/ronlhs ('Med. Mirror,' 1864, p. 622). " Tlie following theories have been advocated by diflerent pathologists to account for the production of this species of new formation :—