OPEEATION FOU RECTO-VESICAL FISTULA. 349 size of the stone was from 5 to 33 Hues. In 6a cases lithotrity was performed in children between i and 15 years old; of these 6 died. lu 24 cases a single operation only was required to crush the whole stone. The cause of death was almost invariably acute disease of the kidney ; cystitis rarely occurred. The author states that in 20 cases of lithotrity examined after death, extensive renal disease was found 15 times, whilst after lithotomy urinary infiltration, cystitis, peritonitis, and pyasmia Avere more frequently present. He considers that renal disease is an almost decisive contra-iudication of lithotrity, for even the most delicate manipulation may excite very serious symptoms in such cases. To show how often lithotrity was preferred to lithotomy, the author adds that from 1849 to 1859 there were 405 patients with stone treated by operation at the Moscow Clinic; of these 293 were children (i—15 years), and 112 were adults (15—65 years); in the former lithotrity was performed 30 times, in the latter 55 times ; thus out of 10 children about 9 were treated by incision, one by crushing; of 2 adults, i by incision and the other by lithotrity. The stone was crushed success- fully in the 4 females. I)r. Sims on recto-vesical lithotomy ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 111).—Dr. Sims proposes to insert silver-wire sutures after the extraction of the stone, and it appears that a case was thus treated by Drs. Bauer and Sims in 1859. " '^^^ patient was placed on the left side, and my speculum was introduced into the rectum, exposing the anterior wall of the rectum, just as it would the vagina in the female. A sound was passed into the bladder. The Doctor entered the blade of a bistoury in the triangular space bounded by the prostate, the vesiculse seminales, and the perito- neal reduplication. He passed the finger through this opening, felt the stone, and removed it with the forceps without the least trouble. The operation was done as quickly and as easily as it would have been in a female through the vaginal septum. After the removal of the stone, Dr. Bauer kindly asked me to close the wound with silver sutiirgs, which I did, introducing some 5 or 6 wires with the same facility as in the vagina. There was no leakage of urine. The patient recovered without the least trouble of any sort. The wires were removed on the 8th day, and on the 9th day the patient rode in a carriage with Dr. Bauer a distance of 4 or 5 miles, to call on and report himself to our distinguished countryman, Dr. Mott." J. It. Z«Me,referring to Dr.Sims' case ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 151), objects to the incision through the base of the bladder, on account of the great risk of wounding the peritoneum. He records a case of recto-urethral fistula treated by operation. "A. B.—, aged 19, had suffered from stone in the bladder from a very early age. Two and a half years ago, a calculus the size of a walnut was removed by Mr. Lloyd, in St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital. The cicatrix showed that an incision had been made in the raphe of the perineum through the sphincter into the rectum. Externally this wound was soundly liealed, but on examining the in- terior of the rectum an opening was discovered behind the sphincter, leading into the urethra immediately in front of the prostate. The aperture was of %ucli a size as to admit the end of a director. The urethia was otherwise healthy, and a full-sized catheter readily passed