127 CIKOULATORY SYSTEM. while the patient is steadily progressing towards cure, taking more food and gaining strength. Tliere is also no just relation as to the degree of prostration between the cases in which the pulse becomes slow and those in which it continues to beat considerably above the healthy standard. Certainly in an instance which Peacock relates, the rheu- matic symptoms were slighter, the prostration less, and the recovery more rapid than in another case in a neighbouring bed, though the pulse of the latter patient long continued to beat upwards of loo in the mimite. Closely allied to the class of cases last named are those in which the pulse is slower than in health, and sometimes much slower during the active stages of acute febrile diseases. Peacock has seen cases of fever in which the pulse never exceeded 52, and a case of pneu- monia in which it ranged between 50 and 60, without there being any cerebral disorder, and in which, unlike the former cases, the pulse rose with the progress towards recovery. " It will thus be seen that slowness of pulse occurs under very dif- ferent circumstances—in some cases in which the heart is extensively diseased, and in others in which there ia no reason to suppose that there is any defect in the structure of the organ. It must also be evident that none of the causes hitherto assigned for the peculiarity— applicable, as they are, only to particular classes of cases, and not to the whole of those in which it obtains—can be accepted as affording adequate explanations of the occurrence of the condition. As also it has been further shown, that when the slowness of the pulse is com- bined with decided disease of the heart, the structural changes are of very different charactei's, it follows that such changes can only be regarded as coincident, and not as essential to the production of the peculiarity, the defect being evidently one of function.- It would appear, therefore, that the undue slowness of pulse must result either from a want of proper muscular irritability, or from a defect in the special nervous endowment of the heart. Whichever view we adopt, it will explain the occurrence of the peculiarity; for such defect may, and is, indeed, very likely to coexist with any form of structural change in the heart, and yet may occur when the organ is entirely healthy. It would also be a condition likely to ensue during con- valesence from acute febrile diseases; for it is a well-ascertained law of the animal economy, that no organ can be the seat of prolonged over- action without its power being exhausted, and a state of debility or defective action being induced. In the cases in which the pulse is slow during the active stages of febrile diseases, the morbific cause may be supposed to act specifically upon the part in the same way as certain sedatives (e. (j. aconite and the cinchona alkaloids given in full and frequently repeated doses), depress the power of the organ, and greatly reduce its rate of pulsation. The condition of the blood probably affects the rate of the pulse in some cases, a slow pulse being not very uncommon in cases of chlorosis and auajmia. This view, which affords a probable solution of the occurrence of slowness of pulse in the different circumstances described, is further supported by the very little effect which, in some of the cases in which the condition supervenes during convalescence from acute diseases, is