405 POLYPUS OP THE UTEKUS. however carefully the symptoms present may be investigated, it will be found most difficult to distinguish between this and other pelvic tumours. The diseases for which it is most liable to be mistaken are—(i) Betro- version of tie uterus. From this it may be distinguished by the far greater severity of the symptoms, by the absence of dysuria and of the sio-ns of pregnancy, and by a very cautious use of the uterine sound. (2) Pelvic cellulitis. Here the diagnosis is more difficult, for in each case there are symptoms of local peritonitis, with fever and the formation of a tumour. The history of the case will generally decide the doubt. Cel- lulitis generally succeeds childbirth or miscarriage ; the tumour is preceded by febrile symptoms, is slow in formation, always hard at first, and gene- rally is more diffused than the hematocele, and is very rarely behind the cervix uteri. (3) Ovarian cysts, and especially sanguineoits cysts of tlie ovary, sometimes descend into the retro-uterine pouch of the peritoneum, and communicate the same sensation to the finger as the lijEmatocele. But in most cases, the uterus is displaced downwards, and to the opposite side of the ovarian tumour. If peritonitis occur, and the history be im- perfect, the diagnosis must be regarded as almost impossible. (4) M. Bernutz cites a case under M. Groupil in which the differential diagnosis h&iween fibrous tumour of the uterus and pelvic heematocele could not be established, so many features did the case possess in common with both these diseases. Here, again, the diagnosis will be much aided by the use of the exploring needle. ThQ prognosis can rarely be favorable, and in cases of menstrual reten- tion, where regurgitation of the fluid has occurred, or in rupture of the sac from extia-uterine foetation, death almost invariably results. The treat- ment, 'm the first stage, consists in keepingthe patient strictly at rest, applying cold to the abdomen, and administering stimulants and opium. The peri- tonitis of the second stage must be carefully watched and treated with opium. If the tumour increase in size, the propriety of puncturing the cyst should be considered. In favour of this it may be urged that it relieves at once and most completely the painful symptoms caused by the pressure, and that, the tension removed, absorption of the remainder quickl}' follows. Prof. Braun and Dr. Matthews Duncan support this opinion. On the other hand, the dangers of the operation, pointed out by M. Bernutz and Dr. M'Clintock, are the possibility of wounding a blood- vessel in the vagina or cervix uteri, and the admission of air by the wound, giving rise to pyajmia. Of 25 cases in which the operation was per- formed only 2 died ; all derived immediate relief, and 23 recovered. POLYPUS OP THE UTEEUS. Dr. Marion Sims, " On Uterine Polypi" (' Lancet,' vol. 2, 1864, pp. 457—542). Mr. Hutchinson, " On Uterine Polypus " (Holmes' ' System of Sur- gery,' vol. 4, p. 497). Uterine polypi may be soft or hard, mucous or fibrous. They are found in all ages above puberty—seldom before. Tiiey may grow on the OS tiucsc, in the cervical canal, or in the cavity of the uterus. Mucous