REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 171. under tlie iudefiiiito name of " porrigo," by Mr. Startiii. On the Bcalp it appears aa isolated, circular, Hat, yellowish, granular-looking Bcabs, without any inflammatory areola, developed as a ■primanj disease from a small pustule; on tlie general surface as small red points, isolated most usually, becoming pustular, then quasi-bulbous (always umbilicated), and presenting a circular form, with more or less redness around, attain- ing the size of a shilling or more, and then breaking out into super- ficial, wet-leather-looking, ulcerated surfixces. The contents of the pustules were made up of puriform material (a plastic lymph), pus, fat, epithelial cells, and parasites, animal {Steatozoon folliculorum) and vegetable, resembling the trichophyton, and also bodies resembling amy- loid corpuscles. The parasites are only found occasionally, and are accidental components of the disease. Certain deviations are met with from the normal standard. The disease is essentially and highly con- tagious, and the specific contagious quality resides in the secretion of the pustule, and is not parasitic, as shown by microscopic" examination. Cases were quoted to show that the disease was inoculable, by the in- troduction into the skin of a sound person of some of the discharge. Fox points out the similarity between cases of impetigo contagiosa and so-called " bastard vaccinia." The latter was in many cases simply impetigo contagiosa, which mostly followed vaccination, or could be traced by contagion through a series of cases to some one subject in whom the disease had followed close upon vaccination. Impetigo con- tagiosa of the scalp often coexisted with so-called bastard vaccinia of the general surface. Inoculation produced a pustular condition closely resembling vaccinia. Some of the cases appeared to be impetigo modified by the vaccine virus. Fox was sure that vaccination had a great deal to do with the disease, and in this he was confirmed by Dr. Fuller's testimony as to a remarkable epidemic of skin-disease which was consecutive to vaccination at Southampton. The treatment consisted in the application of sulphur ointment and administration of cod-liver oil and iodide of potassium. Inoculation experiments proved the contagious nature of the disorder, while it was also positively determined that no vegetable parasite existed in the matter employed. TiLETTBT Fox, W., M.D.—Ow the nature of so-called Parasites of tie Skin. Brit. Med. Journ., March 19, April 2. Fox argues against the correctness of Erasmus Wilson's view, and endeavours to show, first, that the attributes possessed by the so-called parasites are sufficiently distinctive of vegetable bodies. These he enumerates as—{a) structural, {h) chemical, and (c) vital. Of the first, he says, we are enabled to distinguish the presence of cellulose externally, and internally the primordial utricle coloured by iodine; also the tubed mycelial form and fructification, the latter being un- represented in animal structures. Of the second, ether, chloroform, and spirit of wine, render cpitlielial tissues transparent, and dissolve all fatty substances, while vegetable parasites remain unchanged. Ammonia dissolves animal products, e.g. pus, puriform secretion, crusts, &.C., converting them into a gelatinous mass, and caustic potash has the same effect. Of the third he affirms that iu the vast majority of cases