PKEGNANCY. 459 the lower classes habitually drink to excess. There were also lo cases of death by cold, and in many of these drunkenness was the cause of the exposure which led to a fatal result. Dieberg thinks that the frost- erythema, and even the chilblains on the fingers of persons found dead in the snow, are not proofs that exposure took place during life. His chief reason for this opinion is the fact that these phenomena are often observed, after thawing has occurred, in corpses which had been exposed for 24 hours, or less, to the influence of cold, and of which the skin, while they remained frozen, was perfectly pale, and presented neither erythema nor chilblains. He admits, however, that further experiments are necessary in order to decide this question. Among the proofs that the living body was acted on by the cold he mentions a distended con- dition of the urinary bladder. As much as three pints of clear, odour- less urine were often contained in it. The heart also is said to contain a larger quantity of blood in this than in any other form of death, in some cases reaching the enormous quantity of 24 oz. This blood was usually dark and fluid. "Whether the blood in the body generally differed in colour from that ordinarily observed he did not notice. The stomach was not generally empty, as has been asserted. BTTENS. Duvernoy ('Wiirt. Corr. Bl.,' 1862, 32; ' Prag. Vjhrschrft.,' 1864, 2, p. 114) relates the following case, which is of interest as bearing upon the disputed question whether fire ever produces vesications on the dead body:—The corpse of a man was found who had committed suicide by means of a gunshot wound, which traversed the chest and had lacerated the heart throughout the whole length of that organ. It could, therefore, not be doubted that death was instantaneous. The explosion of the gun had set fire to his clothes, and also to the cushions on which he sat. His whole body was more or less severely burnt; at several points there were small vesications, and in the neck the skin was raised into large bulla?, which contained a bloody fluid. PfiEGNANCT. Scanzoni ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 25) relates a case in which pregnancy occurred in spite of its being utterly impossible that intromiirsion could have taken place. The subject was a healthy young woman, who was engaged to be married, and who applied to Scanzoni in order to know whether there was any obstacle to her fulfilling her engagement. She told him that she had always menstruated regularly up to the last 3 mouths, since which time the menses had not shown themselves, apparently in consequence of her having caught cold. On examination of the abdomen a tumour was found above the pubes, and the other signs of an early pregnancy were present. The girl herself did not deny the possibility of her being pregnant. On examining the external organs, however, the entrance of the vagina was found to be closed by a firm, tense membrane, in the middle of which was a small opening the size of a millet-seed, just large enough to admit a surgical