REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 66 ending fatally were paralytic idiocy, mania/melancholia with idiocy, idiocy without paralysis, and loss of consciousness with refusal of nourishment. Autopsies were made in all the 14 cases, and lesions were generally found in tlie cerebral membranes and in the cortical substance; the former were thickened, and adherent with the latter. The brain tissue was softened both at the periphery and the centre. The same symptoms were not always associated with the same lesions. Tiie other organs which were most frequently diseased were the cranial bones and the liver. The age of the syphilitic patients with mental disorder was usually that of adult manhood, and the majority of them were males. Between the appearance of the mental disorder and the primary affection there occurred an in- terval varying from 2 to 20 years. The primary symptom was usually a chancre, in two of Jacksch's cases it was of phagedajuic character. As a rule antisyphilitic remedies of various kinds had been administered ou account of the general symptoms, but often nothing had been given. The mental disorder was almost constantly preceded immediately by severe headache which lasted weeks and months, and was specially in- tolerable at night; the two often existed together. In 21 cases it was followed by hemiplegia which almost always came on gradually and was either complete or incomplete. Individual cerebral nerves were previously or simultaneously paralysed. In the further progress of the disease paralysis almost always ensued, which not unfrequently became general and afi'ected the tongue, throat, and respiratory muscles. The diagnosis turns upon the presence of the recognised results of syphilis in other parts, on that of the peculiar pain in the head, and on the success of specific treatment. The prognosis is not unfavorable, but becomes so much worse the longer the disease has already existed, the more frequently it has relapsed, the more it is attended with other cerebral symptoms, especially paralyses, and the more the kind of mental disorder approxi- mates to idiocy, or is combined with paralysis. Eelapses ai'e not rare. NEBVOTJS SYSTEM. Meekel.—Report on symptomatic defects and Loss of Speech produced ly cerebral ejections. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 122, p, 106. Htjghlings Jacksok, M.D.—Loss of Speech, its association with val- vular disease of the heart, and with Hemiplegia on the right side. Defects of smell. Defects of speech in Chorea. Arterial regions in Epilepsy. Clin. Lectures and Keports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 388. This valuable paper we can only refer to. Hughlings Jackson.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Aug. 1.3, 1864. Jackson records the case of a male, ret. 49, healthy-looking, but affected with aortic regurgitation, who had loss of speech associated with hemiplegia on the left side, followed at a later period by epileptiform seizures. Jackson refers these to softening from imperfect supply of blood to the brain in the region of the right middle cerebral artery. Cases, he says, of uni- lateral epileptiform convulsions coming on suddenly in very healthy-looking young men suggest the inquiry whether some quasi accidental cause, like embolus, be not more fi-equently the origin of epilepsy than is generally