311 PECULIAR DISEA.se OF THE EETINA. tlie junction of branches, so that the vein appeared formed bytwot\vigs,one of which was red, the other with all its ramifications white. Some parts of the retina were a little clouded, untransparent: here and there a kind of network was formed by little whitish stripes which were supposed to be small vessels with thickened walls. There were numerous punc- tated, and a few larger, ecchymoses, partially collected into groups. White, translucent, prominent masses concealed the entrance of the central vessels on the optic disc. A great quantity of closely packed red points and streaks in this situation proved to be formed by vessels, whose origin and growth were watched for a long time. On slight pressure of the globe every trace of red vessels disappeared from the white glittering deposit. Contrary to all expectation, central vision was nearly normal. Tlie visual field, however, was defective; at first the defect was island-like near the point of fixation, at a later period by gradual increase it formed an irregular zone, which enclosed a tolerably circular, slightly excen- trical field of vision, and was itself surrounded by a sentient portion. It was learnt from the history that the disease had progressed very gradually, and that at difi'erent times there had been brief obscurations of one or both eyes. The author thinks that such sudden, temporary obscurations—not unjustly denominated epilepsia retinge—depend on momentary antemia of the retina. The general health is unaffected, and the heart healthy; there is some reason to suspect a commencing central lesion, though after watching the case for many months, the author has failed to discover any corroborative symptoms. This, although a solitary, case difi"ers so essentially from the forms of retinitis hitherto described, and is at the same time so well charac- terised, that the author has no hesitation in adducing it as an example of a special form of retinal disease. He thinks it must be considered to be a chronic, though slowly progressive, inflammation, which com- mences in the Avails of the vessels as a proliferation or induration of the connective tissue, spreads to the same tissue in the parenchyma of the retina, is transmitted from the arteries by means of the capillaries to the veins, and is possibly connected with similar changes in the cen- tral organs and their vessels. The latter suspicion is supported by the occurrence of the disease in both eyes. Wcdl, Billroth, Eindfleisch, and Leidesdorf, have shown that many diseases of the brain and spinal cord arise from the walls of the vessels. The author compares his case with one described by Eindfleisch, in which there were many centres of gray degeneration in the brain and anterior portions of the spinal cord, and in which the degeneration had evidently commenced in a proliferation of the cells and nuclei of the external^ coat of the vessels. The author thinks that the process was similar in his case, and that he might justly denominate the aff'ection gray def/eneration of the retina. C. Schweigger on the physiological excavation of the optic disc ('Berl. Klin. Wocheuschr.,' 1864, p. 2.32). M. Colin, case of disease from albuminuria (' Opiith. Eeview,' i, 84). Mr. Hulke, cases of disease occurring in the course of kidney-disease (' Med, Tim. and Gajs,'