REPORT ON SURGERY. relief; and the patient subsequently took, at diflerent times, acetate of potash, liquor potassaa and opium, pareira brava and acid, with a like result. Pindin<i[ that after a fair trial of various remedies they were of little benefit, Mr. Holt desired that his bladder sliould be injected every morning with a drachm of the tincture of opium to an ounce of water; but as this gave but transient ease, the sedative solution of opium was substituted for it; this after a few days gave considerable relief, and he was enabled to retain his urine for from three quarters of an hour to an hour, 3 ounces of urine being now the quantity that was usTially passed. This treatment was continued for a month, the bladder still refusing to hold more than ,3 ounces of urine. The injec- tion was directed to be repeated in the evening, but the second passing of the catheter produced so mucli irritation that after a week's trial the injection was altogether omitted. He still continued to pass 3 ounces. The iodide of potassium was now prescribed yi ^-grain doses, with directions to increase the dose every .3rd day; and after the lapse of a fortnight the daily injection of the solution of opium was resumed. The benefit of tliis treatment was soon apparent, for in a short time the bladder was found to contain 31 ounces, and occasion- ally 3 ounces 7 di'achms ; the intervals being usually an hour and three quarters, and sometimes 2^ hours. This ti-eatment is now being pur- sued, and apparently with the most satisfactory results." Mr. Holt remarks that—"If the surgeon, under whose care this man first came, had carefidly inquired into his history, he would have ascertained that the frequency of micturition preceded the di.scharge, and that the pain the patient complained of was after the bladder had been emptied, and not the ardor urinsB that accompanies an attack of gonorrhoea. The mischief was in the bladder, more especially at its neck; and although the proximate cause was the injury to the urethra, the serious symptoms depended on inflammation of the bladder. But supposing it had been otherwise, and the inflammation of the bladder had resulted from gonorrhoea, surely the bladder complication required the first attention, and could not be remedied by copaiba or cubebs." On the diagnosis, Mr. Holt states that " during the time the patient was aufesthesiated I injected his bladder; but although he was perfectly unresisting, I could never force in more than 2 ounces of tepid water, which, taken in connection Avith the limited movement of the sound and the absence of any tumour or irregularity, assured me that he was sufiering from hypertrophied bladder." T. Smith, prolapsus of tlie ureters into the bladder (' Trans. Path. Soc.,' xiv, 185). Prof Maschka, case of extra-peritoneal rupture, &c. (' Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 64). H. Teleky, case of rupture ('AVien. Med. Halle,' 1S64, p. 332). H.Smith, removal of piece of tobacco-pipe ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 350). J. Adams on retention of urine (1. c, 1863, ii, 557). T. Paget, case of retention, treated by pimcture of the bladder and a permanent tube for micturition ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 213). M. Laugier, dysuria in a case of contusion of the hip ('Gaz. des H6p.,' 1863, p. 569). Dr. Fiirstenheim, case of disease, &c. ('Berl. kliu. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 291). 11. Schneider, two cases of enormous dilatation ('Schweiz. Zeitschr. ftir Hcilk,' ii, 453)-