LUMINOUS EYES. 303 Chelius. It is now known that in such cases the tumours are of inflam- matory origin, that they are formed of connective tissue, and that they usually proceed from the choroid, although, in exceptional instances, they may be primarily developed in the retina. Such tumours con- stantly end by suppuration or atrophy ; they, of course, destroy the eye, but do not, like cancer, destroy the patient. They now pass under the title of sarcomatous tumovirs. The peculiar lustre is also seen in other cases—for example, in some cases of separated retina, provided the latter is thickened and trans- formed into a dense tendinous mass (see case by Alfr. Graefe in the 'Ophth. Eeview,' i, i6o). There has been some doubt as to the nature of the affection described by Beer under the title of " cat's-eye amaurosis." Himly refers it to absorption of the choroidal pigment, and supports his view by the light colour of the fundus oculi, and the lustre observed in albinos. It is true that some observers have not noticed the latter appearance, probably owing to their neglect of the conditions under which it can be seen. If an albino is placed in a partially darkened room opposite a moderately distant window or lamp, a properly placed observer will scarcely ever fail to perceive the lustre—only, indeed, when the pupil cannot dilate. The author considers rapidly advancing myopia to have been the essential lesion inBeei''s cases ; extreme atrophy of the choroid and consequent exposure of the sclerotic very much conduce to the production of the lusti-e; the author, can, from his own experience, affirm that it may always be seen in the most brilliant manner in such cases, provided the external conditions of the phenomenon are fulfilled. Even if there is only a posterior staphyloma, or if the surrounding choroid is but little atrophied, this symptom can always be perceived, provided the pupil is well dilated, and the eye properly directed with reference to the lamp. Stellwag also perceived the lustre in cases of fibrous degeneration of the optic disc where the choroid was quite normal. It may, indeed, be seen in normal eyes ; though it is very difficult to render it apparent so long as the pupil is contracted, there is not much trouble after full dilatation has been effected by the use of atropine. It is, for this reason, a constant symptom in cases of congenital absence of the iris. There is no great difficulty in determining what is the part of the fundus that takes the place of a mirror. If the choroidal pigment is entire, the room must be darkened, the lamp placed at a distance of several feet from the eye to be examined, and the observer must place a screen between himself and the flame, so that he may look almost exactly in the same direction; at the same time, the eye observed must be directed somewhat inwards. This is the only position in which the lustre is observed. The experiment is much facilitated by full dilatation of the pupil. Hence it is evident that there is in the normally pig- mented fundus no considerable surface which can act as a speculum • the opinion that the optic disc is the reflector appears to be confirmed by the fact already mentioned, that the lustre is more readily observed when the nerve has undergone fibrous degeneration. Where, from any morbid process, the choroidal pigment has been