363 PEEGNANCY. the areola aro most uumerons near the nipi^le in fibroids ; very few, if any, being on tbe outer border of the areola. The reverse is the case in pregnancy. (5) The peculiar white honeycomb layer, external to the dark areola, is never found in cases of fibrous tumours. In addition to these diiferences in the appearances of the breasts— 2. The double cardiac or single cardiac sound are so seldom absent in cases where fibrous tumours assume large proportions that their absence should alone make us doubtful. The aorta may, it is true, be heard through the child's body, but movement of the part at once extinguishes the sound. 3. The projecting umbilicus in pregnancy and its puckering in cases of fibrous tumour give a marked diagnostic diflerence. But moredifiicult still is the differential diagnosis between extra-uterine pregnancy and these tumours of the uterus ; and here the chief difficulty has relation to the value of the early symptoms, and especially the catamenia, vvhicli is generally suppressed in extra-iiterine pregnancy, but increased at some period in the history of fibrous tumours. 4. —Mr. Annan's paper is in continuation of a paper on the same subject ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' Peb., 1857). Two further cases are now recorded.—(i) A woman, ajt. 32, was in great physical and mental distress during her eighth pregnancy, and was delivered, 26 days after the period at which labour threatened, of a large female child, which weighed on the following day 11 lbs. 4 oz. (a) In the second ease the woman was also in great distress, and by her own calculation she had exceeded the period of pregnancy by about five weeks. She suffered greatly during these latter weeks, and was delivered of a male child, which weighed 11 lbs. The author remarks on the connection between the mental emotion existing in both these cases with the prolonged pregnancy. 5. —In Dr. Simpson's case the patient menstruated in the beginning of January, but the period only lasted two days, instead of four, as generally. She quickened in May, and expected to be delivered about the end of September or the beginning of October. She was not delivered until November 29th. Assuming that she did not conceive till the period succeeding that at which the catamenia ceased, the duration of pregnancy could not have been less than 300 days; but if —as the author thinks is more probable—from the short menstruation and the date of quickening, she conceived about the period in January, then utero-gestation continued for 329 days. The condition of the child at birth, and especially of the head, indicated a corresponding degree of development. It measured 21 inches long, and weighed more than \o\ pounds. The head measured more than 14^ inches in circumference; the anterior fontanelle was small and the membrane firm, and the posterior fontanelle was so far obliterated that the corner of the occipital could not be depressed below the parietal bones. —The vomiting of pregnancy is a reflex symptom, having its origin in some uterine or ovarian irritation. Cases are recorded in which some misplacement of the fundus, or inflammation and even ulceration of the 03 and cervix, or false membrane between the fa'tal membranes and the uterus, have been found, and vs, some casea