14-9 DIGESTIVE SYSTEHr. there had been scarcely any diminution of pei)shie produced by the fever. As a contrast to this were the results of similar experiments upon 4 cases who died of typhus fever. In 2 of these the albumen had gained 3 grains of weight by imbibition, and was not at all softened; whilst in the other 2 it was softened, and i had lost only half a grain, the other i^, in weight. But as the activity of the digestion must depend, not only upon the relative amount of pepsine, but also on the bulk of the mucous membrane, this was also attempted to be estimated. The average weight of the mucous membrane of 10 males dying of various diseases was 18 drachms, the weight of 2 recent cases of scarlatina was i8 and 16 drachms (the latter being in a boy), whilst it only amounted to 15 drachms in one who died in the third week of illness. In 4 cases of typhoid fever the average weight of the mucous membrane only reached 11 drachms. The skin was microscopically examined in 3 cases. In the first, in which the patient died after a few days' illness, the only morbid appearance in the cutis was an occasional minute extravasation of blood in the neighbourhood of the sudoriferous ducts. The rete mucosum was greatly thickened, and numerous round cells with large nuclei were everywhere visible, inter- mixed with the natural cells. The basement membranes of the sweat- glands were thickened, and the epithelium lining them was so much increased that in most cases it obstructed their channels. In some of the sweat-glands the coils of which they were composed were loaded with coagulated blood, and were gi-eatly and irregularly distended. In the other recent case the appearances were similar, excepting that the external layers of the cuticle were stained with blood in minute patches, and the sweat-ducts were also reddened; but there were no extravasations of blood either in the glands or cutis. In some of the ducts the epithelium was detached from the basement membranes. In the case of a man who died during the third week the sudoriferous tubes were still choked up; but in the glands the epithelium seemed in many places to be torn away, leaving the basement membranes bare or only covered by ragged particles. The cutis was in a natural condition. The author stated that although he had, in accordance with the usual custom, described the appearances of the skin and mucous membranes as the results of inflammation, yet that certain considerations suggested the idea that the term when so used was perhaps misapplied. In scarlatina we find that in each part the morbid condition is mostly confined, in the first intance, to the basement membranes, and consists in the formation of layers of new cells, which in the skin are trans- formed into cuticle of natural appearance, and in the stomach contain pepsine. If future researches should prove that a similar condition occurs in the kidneys and other parts, it will be necessary to look upon the structural changes produced as resulting from increased physio- logical rather than from pathological action, and that the primary effect of the scarlatina poison is suddenly and violently to stimulate the natural cell growth of the various secreting organs. Report of the Vienna Hospital for i860,'61, '62.--Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 243.