302 HEPORT ON SUEGERY. finelv powdered sulphate on the conjunctiva; (2) in the chronic bleplmro-conjuuctivitis of scrofulous children, where the eyelids are large, thick, and shining, the cornea is normal, and a muco-purulent discharge escapes from the fissure, so as to simulate a purulent ophthalmia; by these means the swelling, which frequently resisted all other treatment for months, was removed in a few days; (3) in vascular and interstitial keratitis, with remarkable benefit according to Van Eoosbroek. J. Ilomherger on a new mode of applying atropine ('Amer. Journ. of Ophth.,' I, 253 ; ii, 18).—In place of repeated applications of a solution, the author recommends its use in substance. Solid atropine readily adheres to the end of a silver probe, and a particle may be thus placed on the inner surface of the lower lid. According to the author, the alcaloid soon dissolves in the tears, and does not excite any irritation. Two applications a day appear to him to have as much effect as twenty instillations. In iritis he introduces " the fortieth part of a grain of atropine, in substance, into the lower conjunc- tival sac, M'hich can be easily done by placing the salt, with a probe, on the everted lower lid. The patient is kept for half an hour under observation. Dryness in the throat is a usual effect of the application of the drug, which soon passes away; only if further symptoms (congestion to the head, paralysis of the m. protrusor urinse) should approach, it will be necessary to give the patient, internally, -Jth to -^rd of a grain, or a subcutaneous injection of -^th to ^th of a grain of the sulphate of morphia. Though I have but twice been obliged to resort to these means of counteraction, I consider it necessary to have them always on hand. It will be well to examine the patient some hours after the first application. If the pupil has enlarged considerably, one application daily will soon bring about dilatation, and no further treatment will be necessary, particularly in cases of a non- specific nature. If the enlargement is noticeable, but of little extent, or if there is no change, another application is made with the same care, and the case re-examined the following day. On the second day, those cases which do not present a marked increase of the size of the l)upil, are, according to the current rules, subjected to the action of mercury, to depletion, paracentesis of the anterior chamber, or iridec- tomy. Those, on the contrary, where the pupil has become larger, are treated with atropine exclusively, and only those where marked constitutional syphilis exists, submitted to a mild mercurial treatment." Frof. K. Stellioag von Carion on luminous eyes (' Ophth. Eev.,' i, 174). —Beer, who first called attention to this subject, attributed the peculiar lustre to pathological disappearance of the choroidal pigment (cat's-eye amaurosis). It was soon found that medullary cancer of the retina at an early stage produces exactly similar reflections to those described by Beer, and the latter were accordingly enumerated among the symptoms of that disease. Tet the observations of Travers, Ammon, and othei-s, showed that sometimes after this symptom had been observed, the eye- ball gradually became softer and atrophic. This process was at first explained by the supposition that the cancer had undergone a retrograde metamorphosis—a supposition, which was proved to be incorrect by