DIGESTION AND SECHETION. 21 origin, and the latter only in a state of decaj'. (4) The yellow colouring matter is an organized body—a cell containing cloudy granular contents, which furnish fatty matter by decomposition ; the fatty acids being the margaric and glycocholic associated with cholesterine and soda. These yellow corpuscles are the yellow corpuscles of the bile-cell. (5) The brown colouring matter is an albuminous substance undergoing decom- position, and is probably the remains of the wall of the hepatic cell whose contents constitute the yellow colouring matter. It is this brown matter which by treatment with NO5 yields the play of colours used as a test for bile. (6) The bile contains both the materials removed from the portal blood and the anatomical structures by which the removal was effected; the latter in a stage of retrogressive metamorphosis. (7) The bile is an excretion—a depuration of the liver directly, of the blood remotely. Biliary Acids in Icterus.—H. Huppert ('Arch, der Heilk.,' ^, p. 236, 1864) and E. Bischoff ('Henle und Pfeufer's Zeitsch.,' 21, p. 125, 1864) have endeavoured to determine experimentally the course of the bile-acids in icterus, and agree in the result that only a small portion of them is excreted by the kidneys, the greater part being, as in health, decomposed in the blood. Huppert injected from 25 to 50 grains of the glycocholate of soda into the jugular vein of the dog and the rabbit, and on draw- ing blood in from 5 to 9 hours (after the temperature and pulse had re- covered from the consequent depression) discovered in it scarcely a trace of the acid, while the urine secreted during the same time did not contain 2 grains. In other cases which gave similar results, the secretion of the liver was examined at the same time by means of an hepatic fistula : after the injection of the clycocholate of soda there was a slight increase in its secretion by the liver, but this increase did not last more than an hour nor did the quantity exceed a fourth or a sixth of the amount in- jected. By the liver and the kidney together not more than a third or a fourth of the injected acid was excreted, though none remained in the blood. That it had been decomposed rather than exuded into the tissues may be inferred from the fact that in jaundice, in spite of the continued absorption and the scanty excretion, the pulse maintains a considerable frequency. Bischoff could not detect any biliary acids in the blood, muscle, brain, or cerebro-spinal fluid, of a man who died jaundiced from cancer. On examining the urine in jaundice, Bischoff found in one case 5 grains of choloidic acid per diem, and in another -I gr. Lessen found gr. The largest of these quantities is less than -^Lth part of the probable daily secretion as estimated by Bischoff and Voit, and Eanke. In health the faeces contain of biliary acids at least 8 grammes (123 grains) less than the amount secreted ; which quantity, therefore, is burnt in the blood. And since there is no reason to suppose their oxidation diminished in jaundice, their presence in the urine being simply the result of their absence from the faeces, it is probable that the formation of them in that disease is not less than in health. Hippwic Acid in Urine,—Mattschersky administered kinic, cinnamic, and benzoic acid to dogs, and found that, except in one instance with benzoic acid, hippuric acid was excreted in their urine, although it normally contains none. (' Virchow's Archiv,' 1863, ^, p. 33^-)