UEPOllT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 4 of the horse or ox. Blood-crystals being easily soluble in dilute acids or alkalies, the alkali of tlio blood tends to hold them in solution, and hence, neutralizing this alkali by CO.^, or by acetic, sulphuric, or hydrochloric acid, iaeilitates their deposition. It is in this way only that the addition of CO.^, acts in producing crystallization ; a further deposit always ensues on evaporation. A partial o.\idation prepares the blood for crystallization by separating the hramato-globulin from the corpuscles, but carried further it altogether prevents it. 13oth effects are rapidly produced by ozone—as by shaking the blood with a few drops of ozonized turpentine. Wh.en the blood thus shaken loses its dark-red colour and transparency, and becomes greenish and turbid or exhibits white flakes, the period of crystallization is pa.st. The most favorable time is when the hjemato-globulin is dis- solved out of the cells, but the latter are still distinguishable. Schmidt observed also that if the corpuscles of horse's blood were allowed to subside, and then, the serum being carefully drawn off, were shaken with so much ozonized turpentine, that the corpuscles were dis- solved in one or two hours, the blood formed a jelly-like coagulum. Allowing this to contract, by separating it carefully from the walls of the vessel, a fluid containing erystallizable hsemato-globulin is pressed out. The clot contains no corpuscles—only flakes which exhibit a remarkably fine granular structure. Thus, by an active oxidation of the corpuscles, these are not only dissolved, but a pi'ocess is set on foot which has a certain resemblance to the coagulation of fibrin. Unozonized turpentine does not produce a like effect. Schmidt is of opinion that the crystallization of the blood by means of an electric current, as discovered by Rollet, is due to an oxidizing process effected by the ozone which the current produces from the 0 contained in the blood. ('Virchow's Archiv,' B. 29, 1864, p. i.) On the cause of the red colour in Inflammation.—MM. Estor and St. Pierre communicate the following results:—In acute innamrnatiou the venous blood is evidently more red than that of the healthy side. It contains, constantly, a larger proportion of oxygen, in the proportion of I'5 or 2*5 to I. It also affords more carbonic acid. The authors ascribe the red colour to the effect of the greater amount of 0 in brightening the venous blood of an inflamed part. (' Arch.gen. deMed.,' May, i864,p.653.) II. rOBCES COirCEENED IK YITAL PHENOMENA. Dr. J. Lcmaire, to test the presence of microphytes and microzoa in the air, condensed the vapour of the atmosphere by freezing, and examined the changes which took place in the liquid thus obtained. He carried out his experiments at 3 places—(i) near some fishponds at Sologne, a district where marsh fever prevails; (2) at the Jardin dcs Plantes in Paris; (3) at Romainville, 300 feet above the level of the Seine, and a very healthy district. In each case the water thus obtained contained, besides grains of starch and dust, spores and small semi- transparent bodies of various shapes. These, however, were very numerous at Sologne, comparatively very few at Eomainville, at the Jardin dcs Plantes they were numerous again. In the course of 24 hours vegetable filaments, vibrios, bacteria, spirilla, and monads, began to take the place of these bodies, and the water became more or less putrid.