232 RKPOllT ON SURGERY. gangrene in a particular direction is due Bometimes to the mere gravi- tation of septic iluids (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 143). J. Spence, case of spontaneous gangrene, dissecting aneurism of the common iliac, &c. ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' x, 7, 66). J. Cockle on spontaneous gan- grene, connected with disease of the heart, &c. ('Med. Mirror,' i, 321, 400). TETANUS. According to Dr. Eernonlli ('Schweiz. Zeitschr. fiir Heilk.,'iii, 127), the general assertion that tetanus is more frequent in tropical lands is erroneous; there are at all events other conditions at work. The author learnt by repeated inquiries from intelligent residents in Nica- ragua that this disease is there very common, often following the sliglitest injuries, and especially fatal in infants; taking cold was quite as often considered the cause as an injury. On the other hand, the author himself during an extensive practice for five years has not seen a single case, and is aware of the occurrence of only two in Gruatemala and San Salvador. J. L. Clarke on the jyatliologxj of tetanus ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 261).— Two cases are described, in both of which very similar pathological lesions were found, viz., great congestion of the spinal cord, with granular exudation around the vessels. Thus in the second example, "tbe pia mater of the brain was found to be slightly blood-stained in the neighbourhood of vessels, but otherwise healthy. The dura mater of the spinal cord contained about half an ounce of blood-stained fluid. The vessels of the surface of the cord itself were greatly injected, espe- cially in the lumbar enlargement. Its gray matter was congested. The remainder of the cord was more than usually vascular, both on the sur- face and in the interior, but less so than in the lumbar region. Nearly the whole of the spinal cord was sent to me by Dr. Dickinson for examina- tion. To the unassisted eye nothing unusual was observable in its in- terior. But when the microscope was employed on sections properly pre- pared, lesions were discovered of the same general nature as those which I described in the first case. Every region—the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar—was more or less aiFected; but in each the morbid appear- ances seemed rather to occur at intervals, and not uniformly througliout its length. In some sections the injur_y was limited to the gray sub- stance ; in others it involved the white columns, particularly the pos- terior and lateral. Sometimes the lesion was in the form of a granular deposit around blood-vessels ; sometimes in the form of globular masses or rings, arising from injury and displacement of the white substance of the adjacent nerve-fibres. The latter appearance was more frequent in the white columns and along the sides of fissures containing blood- vessels, where the tissue had occasionally the aspect of a moth-eaten cloth. In some places the lesional spots were exceedingly small, and might easily have been mistaken by an unpractised eye for the natural appearance of the part. * * Tlicsc changes are evidently essentially tlie same as those described by Rokitansky (1856) and Demine. As the researches of these anatomists do not appear to be gene- rally known, we append a short account of Demme's statements (from ' Schmidt's j i