INOE,GA>'IC SUBSTANCES. 429 of taking the same dose about once a week. He also stated that near Liegist many people eat arsenic, some taking it daily, and many in larger doses than he. They cannot get it by open purchase, in conse- quence of the strictness of the laws regarding the sale of poisons ; and as taking it is generally considered a bad habit, it is concealed as much as possible. It is therefore, perhaps, less surprising that even in Vienna those who have not made special inquiries about it are scepti- cal as to the existence of this practice. Dr. Parker records ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' 1864, Aug., p. 116) a case in which death was ascribed to the practice of arsenic-eating. A. C—, <a photographic artist, was seized on Nov. 20th, 1862, with intense pain in the stomach, which was not, however, materially increased by pressure. The abdomen was much swollen and tympanitic, and there was inces- sant vomiting and intense thirst. The countenance was anxious and the features contracted ; the complexion unnatural, having, as seen by gaslight, a dark-greenish hue. He stated that for two or three weeks he had suffered from " dj'spepsia," with pain after his meals. While Dr. Parker was examining him he abruptly asked whether the daily use of arsenic would produce such a disease. He said that for the last four years he had taken that poison daily, being induced to do so by an article in a newspaper on the subject of the arsenic-eating in ytyria. He began with very small doses, measuring the quantity with the eye on the point of a pen knife. Sometimes it was taken rolled up in paper, at other times it was mei-ely placed ou the back of the tongue and swallowed. Dr. Parker estimated that his daily dose during the 5 months preceding this illness had been between 2 and 3 grains. The quantity taken ou the 18th November was said to have been larger still. He had on several occasions discontinued taking it for a few days, and once for three or four weeks ; but, fancying he was not so well as wlien under its influence, he resumed the practice. He believed that his spirits and general health were better under its use ; it did not appear to improve his wind. He thought it stimulated his genital organs, and Dr. Parker states that he had been notorious for his amorous pro- pensities. His complexion was, he said, often made dingy, and was not improved by it; but his friends stated that his pinkish complexion, as if he used paiut, had of late frequently been remarked by them. Por some time after commencing the practice he had a metallic taste in the mouth and throat. In spite of the treatment adopted his severe symptoms were only temporarily relieved. On the 22nd the skin became cold, and the pulse HO feeble that it could not be felt in the smaller arteries, and the heart's sounds could only just be detected by the stethoscope. At this time, however, he retained his streugtli so completely that he went by himself to the night-chair, and he conversed in a firm tone of voice. The sickness and thirst had now passed off, but he suffered much from tenesmus and strangury. He passed only a few drops of urine in the 24 hours. On the morning of the 23rd he died. Decomposition of the body was unusually rapid. Twenty-four hours after death the whole body was emphysematous, and the rreuital organs black and swollen. Air had collected between tiie nuicoua and