250 R13P0RT OX SUllGEUY. supposed to be cured. A woman under Dr. Hjort was treated by syphilisation in 1856, and three years later liad a cliild which sufl'ered from hereditary syphilis; another woman, treated in the same way in 1856, had two years later a child which only lived two days. 4. As to the influence of syphilisation on tertiary symptoms, no con- clusion could be drawn from the three cases observed. 5. Of X2 children sufl'ering from hereditary syphilis, 5 were cured; in I the disease recui-red, and 6 died during the treatment, 5 between the fifteenth and thirty-fifth days of treatment, i on the hundred and thirty-fifth day. 6. A cure was generally not effected by syphilisation in cases of secondary or tertiary syphilis, when the patient had previously taken mercury. As these patients received at the same time or alternately iodide of potassium, no further conclusion could be arrived at. 7. In affections of the nervous system and of the internal organs, syphilisation has little or no efi'ect. In reference to the influence of this treatment on the general health of the persons inoculated, it was found that:— I. It caused no particular pain or other trouble. a. The treatment was attended with some pain in only rare cases, where the ulcers produced by inoculation considerably enlarged, became confluent, or phagedsenic; in such cases it sometimes exercised a per- nicious influence on the general health. 3. After the termination of the treatment the patient had, almost without exception, a healthy appearance and felt active and strong. 4. These patients took no special precautions after their discharge from the hospital; they do not appear to have been more sensitive to other diseases afterwards, than healthy persons in general. Dr. Hjort tried some experiments with autimonial plaster with the view of determining whether syphilisation owes its effects to some specific quality of the ulcer, or simply to " depuration " effected by the ulcerative process. The committee found that:— No condition occurred analogous to the so-called immunity after syphilisation. In little children it was followed by considei'able reac- tion. In general it gave more pain and trouble than syphilisation. The pustules and ulcers discharged but little, were unequal in size, and a vesiculo-papular eruption sometimes appeared suddenly on other parts of the body. Phagedrena was not observed. The results were, that:— 1. In 7'5 patients, of whom three only were under five yeai-s of age, suffering from acquired secondary syphilis, who had not been treated with mercury, a. Cure, without recurrence up to the time of the report in 43 = 57-3 per cent.; the duration of the treatment averaged 151 days. h. Eecurrence in 14 = 187 per cent.; the disease twice recurred in each of two patients, and thrice in one case. c. No definite result in 18 = 24 per cent. 2. In none of these cases have tertiary symptoms hitherto appeared, 3. Of four women suffering from secondary syphilis, who had never 1