HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 223 and milk punch, alternating with beef essence, porter or ale, and en;g- uog, was at first given, regardless of the desires of the patient. _ The Ferri et Quin. Cit. with sherry wine was given in doses of gr. vj to x three times daily. This system was found injudicious, since it over- powered the feeble digestive organs, and caused nausea, vomitipg, and diarrhoea; it was suspended, and Acid. Hydrochloric, gtt. iv, in com- bination with Tt. Opii gtt. xvj, were given every three hours. Under this treatment the tongue became moist and clean, and the appetite returned sufficiently to cause the patient to ask for and enjoy a rea- sonable quantity of food. The opium was given to allay the gnawing pain and to give rest and sleep, as well as to obtain any specific influ- ence over the disease which it might possess, as claimed for it by the older writers. " The local treatment consisted at first in the use of undiluted nitric acid, freely applied to the entire surface of the ulcer. The table (of 9 cases) indicates the success of that treatment. Of the 9 cases, all were treated with the acid in the early stages. Of these, 2 were fatal, and 2 resisted the acid; or in other words, in 4 cases it was useless. Of these 4, the two fatal cases were not treated otherwise, whilst the other 1 were treated with success, with bromine. The 5 cases treated successfully with acid are marked ulceration, and were milder than those that proved fatal, or than those that were treated with bromine successfully. The dressing, after the use of the acid, was an antiseptic wash, either creasote, or Liq. Sod. Chlor. in a dilute solution. In some instances a yeast poultice, or a stimulating one of cinchona, ginger, and porter, seemed to assist in cleaning the siirface. Where the sore lost its sloughing character, after the use of nitric acid, the mild antiseptic washes were sufficient to encourage rapid granula- tion. " Of more value than the acid is the solution of bromine in water and bromide of potassium, proposed by Surgeon Goldsmith, U.S. Vols. Two cases were treated v?ith this agent, in both of which nitric acid had failed. One of these would, doubtless, have proved fatal, whilst the other was progressing rapidly, although the acid had been used several times without benefit. The action of the bromine is that of a caustic ; all the necrosed tissues are converted into tough yellow shreds, and are perfectly deodorized. The ulceration seems to be checked at once, whilst the nervous sy stem, no longer depressed by the absorption of the fetid products of the mortification, soon recovers from its depres- sion. The areola loses its livid hue, becomes more crimson, and finally disappears ; the sloughs are rapidly thrown oft', and a rosy, florid sur- face appears beneath. The bromine was also used in the form of vapour, confined to the surface by oiled silk. Its antiseptic influence is very powerful, since not the least odour could be perceived on dressing these gangrenous sores, even when they had been covered closely with oiled silk for twelve hours." To this report the author appends notes of 4 other cases occurrino- sporadically; he remarks that " it will be observed that 3 of these I cases were fully treated with pure nitric acid without benefit, and that the 4 did yield eventually to the local application of bromine. Where