835 MECHANISM OF STEANGULATIOX. deavonrs to define more exactly wliat may with propriety be termed strangulated hernia. As some confirmation of his theory, he adduces the elFect of chloroform so surprising in certain cases—sometimes, for example, a rupture which has obstinately resisted the surgeon's efforts, yields without difficulty after the patient has become unconscious. The author especially urges the important influence exerted by the pressure of the abdominal walls, and asserts that the latter, soft and yielding in health, become from the very commencement of strangula- tion hard, rigid, and contracted; he has noticed this occurrence before, during, and after reduction in every case. We may exemplify the author's theory in the following manner:—A hernia usually retained by a truss descends, owing to some violent exertion, and becomes strangulated. The sudden pressure of the abdominal parietes has forced the bowel through a narrow aperture into a space surrounded by walls that present comparatively little resistance; here, therefore, the bowel expands; but, as a reflex effect, the abdominal parietes continue to press, and therefore force flatus into the prolapsed bowel. The latter, irritated by its displacement and dilatation, causes pain; the walls of the abdomen become more and more tense; the pressure at the neck of the sac increases ; the circulation is impeded; strangulation is produced. Should this state remain, inflammation and its consequences gradually supervene. Pain, muscular contraction, irreductibleness, are three constant symptoms from the beginning of strangulation. Two stages may accordingly be distinguished in the history of strangulation —the first characterised by tenseness of the abdomen and of the hernia, the second by symptoms of inflammation. During the first few hours after strangulation, reduction may often be eflected. The result depends on the energy with which the abdo- minal muscles contract, the distension of the bowel, and the size of the aperture—the pressure of the siu-geon's hand overcoming that of the abdominal parietes. The use of chloroform is obvious. As a further proof of this theory, the author quotes O'Beirne's experiments with a loop of bowel passed through a hole in a piece of cardboard. The hernise that are most liable to strangulation are notoriously those that escape after a truss has been worn, whilst those that are perma- nently unsupported rarely suffer in this way. The explanation ia simple. In the former all the conditions are ready—abdominal pres- sure, narrow ring, distensible sac; but in the latter both the ring and sac are large, allowing great distension of the bowel without any special pressure at the neck. Malgaigne has asserted, and the author admits the fact, that the bowel is never strangulated immediately after the formation of a hernia, except when it passes into the tunica vaginalis. Dr. Guyton rejects the supposed strangulation of large hernite and of epiploceles. As he justly remarks, practitioners do not generally diagnose with sufficient care the nature and condition of hernial tumours. " Thus operations for hernia; that are not strangulated, for epiploceles that are only inflamed, worse still for masses of fat unconnected with the peritoneal cavity, are not very rare." " On the 2(5th August, 1848, at 11 p.m., a woman with a left femoral