UEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 150 During epidemics of typhus, gastric and intestinal catarrhs became prevalent, and continued for a considerable time after tlieir cessation, though less extensive and severe. The culminating point of the curve of tlie catarrhal dism-der seems to iiavo coincided with that of the fever, or nearly. The following arrangement of cases of tlie former kind is given—(») tiiose where tlie gastro-intestinal catarrh set in, accoinpanied by a periodic fever, of tertian type, witli regular stages and intermissions, which, after a to 4 paroxysms, became continuous, while at the same time the phenomena of an acute catarrhal aflection became more prominent; {b) gastro-intestinal catarrh, with choleraic symptoms, its stormy outset and course coming to a speedy conclusion, and recovery taking place in a few days ; (c) gastro-intestinal catarrh, ■with typhus symptoms. In these the "violence of the symptoms at the commencement, and the high fever, attended with slight splenic en- largement, diarrhea, and meteorism, presented a very deceptive i-esem- blance to typhus; but the distinction was evidenced by the rapid decline of all these symptoms and the speedy recovery. Tbask, J. B.—On the use of Trisnitrate of Bismuth in acute and chronic Diarrhcea. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 285. Trask reports very favorably of the action of this drug, both in the acute and chronic disorder. It seems to have acted better alone than when given with calomel. A single dose of from 20 to 50 grains seems to have been sufficient in the acute form. In 74 cases the disorder had lasted between 20 and 210 days, and the number of stools daily varied from 6 to 12. All of these, with the exception of 11 patients in whom the disorder had lasted from 90 to 210 days, took a daily dose of 60 grains, or two of 40 grains, and all recovered, on an average, in days. Chapman, J., M.D.—Sea-sickness, its nature and treatment. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. ,3, 10. Chapman says, " The doctrine of the excito-motor or'reflex functions of the spinal cord is a guide to the whole physiology of sickness, and following it I was led to predict how to prevent, arrest, or control, not only sea-sickness, but also how to remedy or palliate every kind of sickness, whatever may be its primary cause. I hold that the proxi- mate cause of sea-sickness consists in an undue amount of blood in the nervous centres along the back, and especially in those segments of the spinal cord related to the stomach and the muscles concerned in vomiting. This condition of the nervous centres in question is in- duced by the movement of the vessel in, I believe, three ways—ist, through the brain; 2nd, through the ligaments of the spinal cord; 3rd, through the abdominal and pelvic viscera." Chapman believes the concussions communicated to the brain and cord excite their tissue, and cause an unwonted number of exciting impulses to be transmitted from them to the viscera. It is a notable fact, he says, that in many suf- ferers from sea-sickness headache, peculiarly intense, is one of the inost striking symptoms. The increased shaking of the viscera gives ri.se to an abundance of abnormal impressions, which are conveyed to the spinal cord, and influence it in the same manner as the direct concussions do.