845 INTERNAL URETHROTOMY. M. Eichnrd, lithotomy for vesical neuralgia ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 189). M. Voillemier on subpubic puncture (1. c, 1863, p. y.-J^). Frosiate.—F. M. Luther, case of vesical paracentesis lu retention of urine from enlargement ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. sxxvi, p. 233). A. Mitsclierlich, case of recto-vesical fistula in consequence of tubercular destruction ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. ixix, p. 236). E. EoUett, cancer (' Spit. Zeit,,' 1864, pp. ^33, 241). URETHRA. S. Stilling on the mire of organic stricture of the urethra ly internal division ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 353, &c.). The author has, on previous occasions, defended this method, and endeavoured to prove it the most rational mode of curing organic strictures. He admits under this method only such an incision as— 1. Divides the whole extent of the contracted portion. 2. Acts by longitudinal sections from the centre or free edge of the stricture towards its base. 3. At once restores, or allows the restoration of, the normal diameter of the urethra. 4. Avoids any injury to the urethra elsewhere than at (before or behind) the stricture. He appends some interesting cases, and remarks that the first patient on whom he used his urethrotome in 1853, is still in excellent health, and without any sign of recurrence. The first case, which he now records, is to the following effect:—In the middle of Nov., 1855, Dr. Stilling was called in consultation to a gentleman, aged 48, who was supposed to be suffering from typhus fever. A small tumour was found in the perinajum; a catheter could be introduced as far as the membranous portion, but no instrument could be passed through the stricture; next day the scrotum was swollen, and on it there were some gangrenous spots; deep incisions were now made, &c. After a time the patient recovered. Dr. Stilling now learnt, that the patient had suffered from gonorrhoea in his 26th year (1833, thus 22 years before), which, through improper treatment, had become chronic; that he had again, at a later period, suffered an acute attack, and had from that time never been perfectly free from gleet for ten years. A great variety of treatment was employed; among other things mercurials were used for a lengthened period, both internally and externally, and bougies were regularly introduced. The patient became hypochondriacal; despairing of relief, he abandoned for a time all treatment. Ho gained strength by a course of hydropathic treatment, married, and had several healthy children. His sufferings, however, recurred with increased severity from time to time; he was once attacked by severe cystitis after an instrumental examination. He was again treated by bougies, and received relief for a time, but for a time only. In the autumn of 1855 ho felt a violent pain in the periuteum after a nocturnal emission. During the following afternoon there was a rigor, in the evening fever;