llJiPOJiT ON SUiiGEJiV. probability of their occurrence ; and if they, in addition, have already appeared, it will facilitate their cure. After all, however, this treat- ment is applicable only to a few cases—to those, namely, where the prepuce or the exterior of the penis is the seat of the primary disease. I have not tried it in the female." O. F. Mmmder remarks ('Med. Mirror,' i, 17) that "instances of indurated chancre and of epithelioma occasionally occur in peculiar lo- calities and under unusual circumstances, rendering a careful investi- gation necessary, in order to avoid errors in diagnosis." He relates three cases,—one of epithelioma on the vulva in a healthy looking woman of twenty-six, one of indurated chancre on the lower lip in a man, aged fifty-five years, and a third of indurated chancre on the penis of a boy of ten. He tabulates the differential diagnosis as follows: EPITHELIOMA Generally recurs after operation — usually observed after the middle period of life—surface and margin more or less hard, irregular, minutely nodulated, and sooner or later attended by.sanious and offensive discharge — attended by an adenopathy after the lapse of months,— Painful. INDUBATED CHANCEE Occurs only once in the same person (one exception has been recorded), and at any period of life—surface more or less smooth, aud only just moist—at- tended by an adenopathy after the lapse of days.—Painless. M. Nodet, on the diiFerent kinds of chancre (Paris, A. Delahaye). Dr. Bondi, case of mixed chancre ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 146). A. Martin on the indurated chancre ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1864, i, 221). Dr. Szabadfoldy on the occurrence of movable cells in a primary syphilitic pustule ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. xxix, p. 470). Messrs. Kluyskens and Hairion on the treatment of bubo by the local use of iodine and methodical compression ('Bull. Beige,' 1862, p. 5°°)- Constitutional syphilis.—E. Cfuntz on syphilitic fever ('Kiichen- meister's Zeitschr.,'ii, 3 ; and Sachs'' Med. Alman.'for 1864, p. 189).— Syphilitic fever occurs in adults during the commencement of the con- stitutional symptoms ; its course varies mucli^ depending, as it does, on the local changes. Its principal characteristics may be enumerated as follows :— 1. Greneral (premonitory) symptoms, the earliest being sometimes slight fever, are observed before the occurrence of the eruption. 2. From the time of infection to the occurrence of general symptoms the temperature is normal. 3. "With the appearance of the eruption the _ temperature continues abnormal, or becomes so provided it had not previously risen—increasing on an average in not very violent cases to 30*4 E. in the evening, with a morning remission to 29*9 E. 4. The fever increases with the extension of the eruption on the skin, averages in severe cases 31 E., with a morning remission to 30-9 E., continues at this height for two, three, or four days, and then sinks during a series of days or even weeks (two to three) to the normal. 5. The pulse varies in proportion to the temperature, thus at 31 R- there are on an average 110 beats in the minute.