NEllYOUS SYSTEM. 73 two forms of the disease, the gradual or progressive, and the sudden or severe. The first is sometimes preceded b}^ well-marked premonitory symptoms, languor, inertia, drowsiness, vertigo, headache, and slight confusion of ideas ; the patient feels weak and nervous, sighs frequently, has thirst, anorexia, constipation, and irritability of the bladder. If the disease proceed unchecked, the symptoms become patient either passes into a state of profound coma, or tlie symptoms_ of the first form of the malady are developed, viz. distracting headache, with a feeling of weight and heat in the occiput, tightness, distension, and throbbing in the forehead and temples, anxiety at the precordia, nausea, and disposition to vomit. A sensation of sinking, or of insupportable weight and uneasiness is referred to the pit of the stomach, and a feeling of horror or of impending calamity, with a tendency to weep, is ex- perienced. The breathing is natural, or slow and sighing. The face is generally natural, sometimes flushed; eyes bright, pupils either natural or somewhat contracted. Skin is very hot and dry, pulse full and accele- rated, tongue white, thirst intense, bowels confined, urine suppressed. The patient is generally distressed and agitated, and speaks in short broken sentences. If these symptoms persist, tetanic convulsions suddenly appear, and the patient lapses into the second or severe form of the dis- ease. This however not rarely makes its invasion suddenly. Its symp- toms are tetanic convulsions, lasting for a few minutes, and followed by profound stupor, from which the patient cannot be roused ; relaxation of the muscles ; slow, deep, stertorous breathing, sometimes accompanied by a loud, prolonged, painful moan or cry. Skin intensely hot and dry. Partial perspiration about head. Countenance pale, no distortion of face. Eyelids closed; pupils at first contracted, but before death becoming widely dilated. Pulse at first full, quick, and bounding, afterwards be- coming quick and weak. Heart's action violent. Sometimes a recurrence of the convulsions takes place, the breathing becomes more and more laboured, and the expired air cold; attempts at vomiting occur ; froth appears at the mouth and nostrils ; and death closes the scene. When , the disease comes on gradually, the recognition of the earliest symptoms '■ of its approach is of the greatest importance, as judicious measures employed in this stage are likely to prove useful in cutting short, or in preventing an attack. Intense headache, burning heat of skin, and a feeling of overpowering load at the epigastrium, are grave symptoms, as there is then imminent danger of the occurrence of convulsions and coma, j On the supervention of the latter symptoms, with stertorous breathing, i an unfavorable issue may generally be expected. An attack may prove fatal in from lo minutes to 12 hours, and when well-marked seldom lasts longer than 2 days. Some cases on recovery from the more immediately dangerous symptoms, are attacked by agues or remittents, and after a period of several weeks die exhausted, the functions of the skin, and of the other emunctories never having been completely restored. While a few cases recover rapidly and completely, the majority on exposure to the sun for any length of time, are ever afterwards liable to occipital headache, and to a feeling of distension in the upper part of the head, the circulation within the cranium appearing to be deranged by the slightest causes. Relapses are frequent, and patients need to be carefully watched during j I