19 DIGESTION AND SECRETION. JVew albuminoid substance in Millc—MM. Millon and Commaille, after removing from milk the casein by acetic acid and the albumen by- heat, find that there is precipitated by a solution of nitrate of mercury a proteine compound of distinct properties, for which they propose the name of lacto-proteine. Its composition is C36, H31, N5, 0,g, which corresponds to an oxide of proteine united with ammonia. Cow's miJk contams of it, on an average, about 15 grains per pint; woman's about 20 grains. The authors state that in the quantitative separation of albuminoid bodies, washing with water, alcohol, and ether, successively, presents great advan- tages. ('Comptes Rend.,'vol. 59, p. 303.) Digestion of albiminoid substances hy the Pancreas.—L. Corvisart reports some experiments made with the pancreas of a healthy man who died after a fall, having been chloroformed. Three hours before death he had drunk 200 grammes (about 6\ oz.) of milk. The weather was very cold. An infusion of the pancreas was made in 13 oz. of cold water. Some of this was divided into 3 portions, of which one was rendered alkaline and a second acid, the third remaining neutral. All the 3 fluids, when digested at a temperature of 104° Fahr. with various foods, exhibited similar results, freely dissolving fibrin and albumen. A porticAa of raw fibrin was digested in half an hour, and entirely dissolved in an hour. The whole infusion sufiiced to digest albumen equivalent to 6 eggs and more than double that quantity of fibrin; altogether an amount equal to half the rations of a French cavalry soldier. (" On an Active and Mis- understood Function of the Pancreas in Man ;" ' Bull, de I'Acad. Imp. de Med.,? 29, No. 16, p. 687.) Functions of the Portal Vein. (Dr. Ore, Bordeaux, 1861 ; ' Journ. de I'Anat. et Phys.,' 1864, No. 5, p. 556.).—Though published in 1861, the new results at which Dr. Ore has arrived have not before been re- ported. M. Robin pi*efixes to his analysis a brief account of the liver, as consisting of two distinct portions, a larger glycogenic and a smaller biliary organ, the constituents of which lie side by side without commu- nicating. The ducts and gall-bladder are proportioned, not to the size of the liver as a whole, but to that of the proper biliary organ, to which they l)car about the same relation as e.g. the ureters and bladder bear to the kidneys. Dr. Ore's views are opposed to those usually entertained hitherto, and supported by M. Simon's experiments on pigeons, which represent the portal vein as the source of the biliary secretion. He found that in dogs and rabbits, when the circulation in the portal vein was suddenly interrupted, death followed within an hour; when, however, the vein was carefully exposed, and a thread passed round it without being tied, the vein became gradually obliterated, and the animals re- covered perfectly. In a dog thus treated and killed on the 20th day the liver was found considerably diminished in volume, and of a very marked pale-yellow colour. The portal vein was converted into a hard, whitish, fibrous cord. The gall-bladder was gorged with bile, which had also passed freely into the intestines. In another case, after occlusion of the vein for 34 days, the liver contained sugar. Numerous other experi- ments gave similar results. Dr. Ore's conclusions are—(i) The portal vein may be obliterated without danger to life, and then the albuminose and glucose which it normally absorbs find entrance into the system by