EXPERIMENTS ON SEPTIOiEMIA. in which life was saved by the removal of the cause of pyaemia. Some time after the operations symptoms of infection appeared; there were repeated rigors, and continually increasing fever; in one case violent dyspncea supervened, for which no cause could be found by percussion or auscultation. As no retention of pus could be traced, to which the pyemic symptoms could be attributed, the stumps were again opened out; the ends of the bones were found to be in a state of osteomyelitis, and were excised; from that moment there were no more rigors, and the patients perfectly recovered. These were examples of self-infection, cured by removal of the morbid source. In other cases where no local cause could be found, and the pyaemia had to be attributed to hospital miasm, the author has observed the symptoms disappear after the removal of the patient to another building. He states that he has seen many cases placed in the wards of the surgical clinic, towards the end of the session, present symptoms threatening pyaemia. _ On their removal to the Catholic hospital, these symptoms soon disappeared; patients who had previously had one, or even two rigors, daily, accom- panied by violent fever, were immediately freed from these attacks, although only the air was changed, the treatment continuing exactly the same. Prof. Euhle, case after endocarditis (' G-reifsw. Med. Beitr.,' i, Eep. p. ,38). W. Eoser on pyaemia ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1864, p. 257). O. Weber on the origiu and treatment of pyaemia (' Arch. f. klin. Chir.,' V, 274). Dr. De Eicci and M. Semmola on the use of sulphites and hyposulphites in the treatment of zymotic diseases (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxvi, p. 470; ' G-az. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 52.3). SEPTICiEMIA. Prof. O. Weher on septicemia ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. .377).—The author had shown by a former series of experiments, that putrid fluids, such as pus or blood, never cause infarctus or the so-called metastatic abcesses, provided they have been carefully filtered; these lesions are observed only when bodies, which, though extremely small, are still sufficient to obstruct the vessels, pass into the circulation. He now undertook, in company with Dr. TJrfey, a fresh series of expe- riments with the view of showing the influence of the various products of decomposition of such fluids over the difi'erent septic phenomena. The latter consist, as indeed was already proved by the experiments of Stich, principally in very marked congestions of the intestinal mucous membrane, accompanied by extremely free watery secretions, which appear during life m the form of profuse diarrhceal evacuations: in more severe cases, in true croupy inflammations of the bowel, accompanied by fibrinous metamorphosis of the cells of the mucous membrane and active proliferation of those of the submucous tissue ; this more serious form is characterised by rice-water stools as in cholera, and intestinal haemorrhages as in dysentery. More or less marked congestions of the most various organs, especially of the lungs, brain, liver, spleen, and kidney were, however, regularly found; they were often attended by 1 small ecchymosea. Teyer, in proportion to the intensity of the infec-