UNUSUAL LOCALITY OF PREGNANCY. 305 mucb nearer to tlae uterus than the left, was only half its size, and con- tained very few follicles. The rif/ht tube terminated at its abdominal end in a closed sac, without any trace of fimbria?, and covered with pseudo-membranous cords. The peritoneal insertion of the tube in the uterus was 4"' distant from the right edge of the uterine rent. Tlie left ovary contained the corpus luteum. The left tube was adherent to the uterus, and impervious in the outer third of its course. Two good illustrations help to explain the peculiarities of this case. The seat of rupture showed a defective muscular coat, forming a pouch, as if out of a dilatation of the uterine end of the rigid Fallopian tube. This pouch had been covered with decidua and peritoneum, and was the seat of the early development of the ovum, which had been received from the left ovary and tube, and had crossed over the fundus uteri towards the saccular dilatation formed by the uterine mouth of the right tube. The complete closure of the abdominal end of the right tube must have completely prevented the reception of the ovum in this tube ; but the obstruction of the outer third of the left tube might have occurred after the passage of the ovum from the left ovary, which contained the corpus luteum. 2.—Dr. Breslau records two interesting cases of extra-uterine gesta- tion. The first was a healthy woman, set. 30, who six months after marriage was suddenly attacked, without any evident cause, with symp- toms of abdominal hsemorrhage, and died in about 6 hours. After death, extensive effusion of blood was found in the abdominal cavity, and, at the point of opening of the left tube into the uterus, half belonging to the uterus parenchyma and half to the tube, Avas a ruptured sac, which still contained coagulated blood mixed with tufts of chorion-villi. From the size of the sac, the embryo, which could not be found, might have been 2^—3 centimetres long, and the pregnancy have reaclned the 6th or 7th week. The internal mucous membrane of the uterus did not show the usual hypertrophied or hyperplastic condition known as the decidua, and which is generally seen in extra-uterine pregnancies. But the special point of interest in the case was a thin-stalked, oval, mucous polypus, about the size of an orange-pip, which was found just below the uterine orifice of the left tube. The author believes the polypus obstructed the passage of the ovum into the uterus. The Fallopian tube was not completely closed. Inasmuch as a portion of the tube and part of the muscular structure of the uterus had contributed to form the ovum-sac, this may be considered an interstitial or utero-tubal pregnancy. The second case is contributed by Dr. Uhlig, who found in the body of a woman, a)t. 60, a contracted cicatrix in the right lumbar region. The abdomen was distended, and above the right inguinal region a large, hard tumour was felt. The uterus was hypertrophied, and pressed towards the left side by a tumour attached to it, which was about the size of a child's head, and contained in its cavity numerous polypous excrescences of the mucous membrane; at the opening of the right tube was a polypus about the size of a fourpenn3r-piece, which, however allowed a fine sound to pass. A second opening was found just below the first, which permitted a sound to pass about an inch. This opening