248 REPOUT ,0N SUIIGEEY. In the lungs, chronic pneumonia and deep cavities with smooth and regular walls, twice; gummy growtlis, thrice ; cicatrices on the surface once; contraction witli dilatation of the bronchi, twice ; cicatrices and ulcerations of the pharynx (larynx?) many times; ulcerations of the larger bronchial tubes, once. The forms of disease observed in the heart were,—distinct guinmv myocarditis, characterised by the presence of tumours in the midst of fibrous tissue, with alteration or even the disappearance of most of the muscular fibres, twice ; simple myocarditis, once ; lardaceous degenera- tion, twice; in some of these cases sudden death resulted from the cardiac lesion. In general, the functional affections excited by syphilitic lesions of the viscera do not possess any specific characters. Each diseased organ manifests its suffering by an aberration of its own peculiar function; hence it results that the symptoms not only vary according to the organ affected, but also, for a single organ, according to the position and extent of the disease. In these cases the clinical diagnosis must depend upon the history of the case, upon the existence or previous occurrence of other syphilitic symptoms; it is, however, well to take into account the age, to examine the liver with the utmost care, for the changes in its form are often characteristic, and to examine the urine for albumen. The simultaneous occurrence of disease in several vis- cera must also be considered; and still more important is the special cachexia which almost invariably accompanies visceral syphilis. The prognosis is, as the rule, serious ; yet it should be remembered that much depends on the special organ affected. Specific treatment (mercurials and iodide of potassium) properly em- ployed, often causes rapid disappearance of symptoms even threatening life. Of course these remedies have no power over the cicatricial form. A point, that should not be forgotten, is that the treatment should in cases of visceral syphilis be continued for a lengthened period; such appears to be the best plan of preventing a recurrence of the disease. Prof. Jaksch, clinical lectures on syphilitic affections of internal organs ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. i, &c.). Cases of syphilitic disease of the larynx (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 253). M. Boecivcl, on syphilitic stricture of the trachea (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1864, p. 11.) Dr. Bolze on syphiloma ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 301). H. Maudsley, syphilitic disease of the brain ('Jouru. of Mental Science,' x, 82). Dr. Liedesdorf on syphilitic disease of the brain and insanity ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864,'p. 88), and some cases ('Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1864, ii, 112). R. Kuh, case of cerebritis syphilitica ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 18(54, V- ^^4). M. Leven, syphilitic tumour of the cerebellum (' Graz. d. Hop.,' 1864, p. 105). E. Wagner, on syphiloma of the liver ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 18154, p. 121). M. Herard (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 523). Dr. 11. Haldane, case of cirrhosis with syphilitic deposit ('Ediub. Med. Jouru.,' ix, 1074). Dr. Eudnow, syphilitic disease of the liver and kidney (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitsclir.,' vi, 256). Be2)ort ofacommitiee (Drs. Steffens, Hgelerg, and Toss) on siipliilisalion ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 122).—The cases on which the