NERVOUS SYSTEM. 75 A»ra, Gwalior, and Umballa. Marsh fevers, he thinks, are produced either b}^ the miasm, itself consisting of carbonic acid gas, entering the system from without; or, if it consist of some other gas, by its so lowering the vitality of the system, that the elimination of carbonic acid is prevented ; the result in either case being ultimately the same, and the actual cause of the symptoms being the same both in marsh fevers, and in heat-apoplexy. The reason why in these fevers coma does not come on as in heat- apoplexy is, that free perspiration occurs by which the poison is removed. Cases of sudden deatla occurring during a march, Bonnyman thinks are not instances of heat-apoplexy, but of syncope. In the matter of treat- ment, he recommends the assiduous employment of cold affusion to the head and chest, till the preternatural heat of the surface has disappeared, sinapisms to the epigastrium and abdomen, the administration of stimu- lants, purgative enemata, diuretics and diaphoretics. Venesection ought never to be practised. If reaction set in rather strongly, and headache be much complained of, a few leeches may be applied to the temples, or, preferably, blisters to the back of the neck or sides of the head. Bexedikt, M.—Olservations relating to Hysteria. Oesterrh. Zeltschr. f prakt. Heilk., 9, 36, 41-1863 ; Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 42. Benedikt states that hysterical paralyses are characterised by simul- taneously existing anesthesia of the skin, the muscles, and the joints ; by the essential diminution of muscular contractility as tested by intra-mus- cular stimulation, while it appeared to be normal when the plexus or the large nerve-trunks were excited; by the sudden change of cutaneous anaes- thesia into hypersesthesia in consequence of electric stimulation of the plexus ; and by the original deficiency of excentric sensibility, and its restoration ■pari passu with the sense of touch. The most successful treatment is powerful galvanization CFaradization) of the plexus and nerve- trunks belonging to the paralysed part, which is to be performed if neces- sary during chloroform narcosis. This is much more effective than the Faradization of the affected part, though the latter may also be employed to complete the cure. The essence of hysteria consists, according to Benedikt, in increased irritability with diminished conducting power of the nerve. When irritability predominates, convulsions and such-like phenomena ensue, when the failure of conducting power is the chief defect palsies and other symptoms of depression occur. He considers that both the central and peripheral nervous apparatus is morbidly affected. Holt, E.—Lancet, Jan. i6th. Eecords a case of anomalous hysteria, of which the following is a brief account. A girl, set. 14, non-menstruated, of healthy appearance, having never suffered any previous malady except a short intermittent fever, was admitted January, 1862, into the hospital at Milan, with a disorder which had existed two years in spite of all treatment. The only possible cause seems to have been a fright. Every day, precisely as the clock strikes I, she begins to shake her head from right to left, gently at first, but with ever increasing rapidity ; and so great is the velocity these move- mcnts attain towards 3 p.m., that it is almost impossible to distinc^uish ber features. Her long hair is waftec] in all directions, her mouth ia