DIPHTHERITIC WOUNDS. 207 4. As to the general symptoms, the great exhaustion at an early period is worth notice; one patient indeed died from marasmus. J. Kutcliinson on diphtheritic or pellicular toowids ('Lond. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 94).—"Amongst the numerous instances of phageda3na which we have had duruig the past year, not a few have presented the peculiar condition known as ' diphtheria of wounds.' It has long heen well recognised in France and some other parts of the Continent, that wounds may become diphtheritic, and you will find allusions to such cases in the monographs on diphtheria published a few years ago by the New Sydenham Society. Little, if any, attention has, however, been given to the subject in England. " The first instance of it which I ever saw occurred under very curious cu'cumstances. A young gentleman, the son of a surgeon, had a com- pound fracture of his leg. The accident occurred in a country lane, and he was carried into an adjacent farmhouse, where he remained throughout. I saw him an hour after the accident, and, assisted by his father, suc- ceeded, after sawing off the end of the tibia, in reducing the displacement. The wound was large, but there was not much contusion. All went on well for some time. At the end of a fortnight, however, the wound assumed a condition of which previously I had not seen any parallel (I have often seen such lately). The edges swelled and became very (ede- matous, whilst the entire granulating surface was covered by yellow, semi-transparent, gelatinous lymph. This we used to scrape away and peel off in large flakes, but it was very rapidly reproduced. We employed various local remedies, and in the course of about ten days the wound was again healthy. Now, the interesting facts as to diphtheria in this case are these :—This young gentleman had himself suffered from diphtheria of the pharynx, very severely, about six months before his accident, and he was still feeble from its effects. One of his brothers had died of it. Further, in the farmhouse to which he was carried, diphtheria had occurred only a few weeks before, and one of the children had died of it; so that we had two sources of possible contamination. You must note that he had every sanitary advantage—a large bedroom, in excellent air, and the freest ventilation which open windows could afford (it was mid- summer). " In some of the many cases of diphtheria of wounds which we have recently had in this hospital, the disease has been associated with hospital phagedajna, but in many it has not. In some we have had most interest- ing opportunities for noting the distinctive features of the two affections, for different parts of the same wound have shown the two in perfectly cha- racteristic stages. The pellicle of lymph differs much in thickness in different cases; in some it is very thick, but soft and gelatinous, in others it is thin, but tough and coherent. I have often peeled off portions as large as halfpence. " During an entire year, we have had hospital phagedoena in certain parts of the hospital, and throughout the whole of this period we have never had a case of it in Gloucester Ward. Yet, several instances of diphtheria of wounds have occurred in Gloucester Ward. None of these have, however, been as severe as some which I have seen in the other