heport on practical medicine. 17G herpes tonsurans. Like Griiby and Kocli, he always found Die fun- gus chiefly between the liair and tlic interior root-slieath, and describes as they do the form of spores and sporidia-chains as the predominating. In the later stages of development Ziemssen found some conditions varying from those described by the above-mentioned observers, but agreeing with the account given by Kobncr. He observed, not onlv niycelium-threada of considerable length, and which often branched dichotomously, but also the hairs of the beard, like those of the scalp in herpes tonsurans, were so x^enetrated by the fringe, tlmt the con- nection of its libre-cells was loosened, the hair breaking off short close to the surface of the skin, and presenting deep lateral indentations and fractures. He relates the following successful inoculation. He rubbed for a long while a spot of his chin, which he had shaved, irritated till it was red, and moistened with saliva, with a number of hairs containing fungi. After a week he felt itching, and there appeared a linotty infiltration of the size of a pea, which was perforated by a hair and covered by a scab. After 4 weeks had elapsed the infiltration had considerably increased, and caused painful tension. A central hair was drawn out of the nodule, which presented a white mass lying between the hair and the root-sheath. After the application of solu- tion of caustic potash a layer of fungi was seen under the microscope, consisting of spores and a few threads. On the contrary, the scales and scabs lying on the infiltrated spot nowhere showed any spores. Ziemssen says this case proves that where a fungous growth exists in sycosis it is to be regarded as the cause of the whole disease. Cases of non-parasitic sycosis are characterised by a leathery condition of the affected skin, and by an eruption of pustules, which at first were dis- crete, but afterwards crowded together, were thickened at their basis, and had a hair in the centre of each. The fungoid growth of the pa- pillary structure, the suppuration, and the fungi, were absent. Ziemssen examined also 6 cases of alopecia circumscripta, but found no fungi in any, nor any loss of sensibility in the bald patches. HiLLiEB, T., M.D.—Is Alopecia areata or Tinea decalvans contagious? Lancet, Oct. i. In a large parochial school at Hanwell, containing from iioo to 1200 children, of both sexes, and from 6 months to 14 years of age, a number of the children were found all at once to have on their heads patches of baldness, quite smooth and pale. Most of the patches were round, some were more irregular in shape. The number of children afitcted ■was 43, and they were all girls from 7 to 14 years of age, who lived together. There was no case of the same kind amongst the infimts or the boys, who occupied a separate part of the building. On more careful inquiry it was ascertained that i girl had been suffering from this disease of the scalp in an aggravated form for i or 2 mouths, and had been allowed freely to associate witli the others. In the root- sheath of some hairs some amount of parasitic growth was detected, but on the whole it was very small. Hillier has failed, like otliers, to detect any parasite, even in cases where baldness has been extendmg rapidly, and is inclined to believe that alopecia in circumscribed