REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY. BX C. HANDriELD JONES, M.B. Caktab., P.K.S., PHXSICIAN TO ST. MAllX'S nOSPITAL. GENEEAL SYSTEM. "Webeb.—On the TropMo Nerves and their injluenoe on Inflammation. Med. Times and Graz., Oct. i. Eeferring to Samuel's experiments (for a notice of which v. ' Tear Boolf,' 1862, p. 118) which went to show that not paralysis, but con- siderable irritation of nerves, would produce inflammation, Weber states that Dr. Tobias, a pupil of Virchow's, at first showed that the method which had been employed by Samuel was a faulty one. One drawback to it appeared to be that croton-oil had been used for irritating the nerves of rabbits, and this substance was now shown to lead to those extensive suppiu-ative changes which had been observed by Samuel even if the nerves themselves were not at all touched by it. By this, however, only part of the problem had been solved, and Weber there- fore repeated the whole of Samuel's experiments, but without in any case observing the appearances described by him. Moreover, his mode of experimentation proved to be too injurious to the animals. If nerves (Prof. AVeber argues) are for ten minutes acted upon by a powerful electric current, and no aiTaugements are made for insulating the current and preventing its radiation to the neighbouring tissues, the experiment loses its value; nor can we be astonished that there should be more or less diffuse inflammation if nerves are tied to pieces of bone and afterwards touched with croton oil. But such inflammation is neither confined to the ramifications of the nei'ves thus treated, nor is it so constant that any sound deductions could be made from its occurrence. Weber therefore thought it advisable to employ a safer and more exact method of examining this question. To excite the nerves for a somewhat longer space of time, he used partly threads loosely placed round them, or metal rings or fine needles, and partly the continuous galvanic current, the nerves being enveloped with a fine conducting wire of copper and platinum. The results of such excita- 3