INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 423 restlessness and anxiety, a burning sensation in the abdomen, and great thirst, M-ere among the other symptoms ; and the patient, a native of Mauritius, died at the end of about 30 hours. The chief post-mortem appearance was au ecchymosed state of the mucous membrane of the stomach and small intestines. The urine found in the bladder gave slight indications of the presence of iodine. Iodide of Potassium.—My. Clayton ('Phar. Journ.,' 6, p. 214) has investigated the purity of 15 specimens of this salt, obtained from different English and foreign druggists. He found very few impurities. Bromide of potassium was not present in a single instance. lodate of potash was absent in all the English samples, and in all but two of the foreign ones. The amount of moisture varied from '6 to ,3*7 per cent.: it was noticed to be greater when the salt had been crystal- lized from spirit. Pliosphorus. Dr. Tiingel relates ('Virchow's Archiv,' 30, p. 270) an instance of poisoning by this agent, in which the fatal termination occurred much more rapidly than is usually the case. A gii-l was brought at 9 p. m., of the 14th April, into the hospital at Hamburg. She was in a state of collapse. Her breath smelt strongly of phosphorus, which led to the conclusion that she was poisoned by that substance. In half an hour she died. It w'as learnt afterwards that she had bought a box of phos- phuretted matches that morning, and she could not well have taken the poison before 12 o'clock noon. On the surface of both lungs a few small ecchymoses were found, but none existed on the pericardium or on the peritoneum. The mucous membrane of the stomach was not iu the least degree reddened, and was quite healthy. There was no trace of inflammation in any part of the alimentary canal. The blood was dark and fluid. The structure of the liver, kidneys, and heart, was healthy. Abundance of phosphorus -was detected by Mitscherlich's test in the contents of the intestines. The liver also gave distinct evidence of its presence, though in smaller quantity. Arsenic. M. Ollivier ('Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 18, p. 704) records the fol- low^ing case of poisoning by arseniuretted hydrogen. The subject was a young man employed in a manufactory of chemical products, who was maldng some investigations as to the aniline colours. In one of these experiments a considerable quantity of arseniuretted hydrogen was set free, and was diffused in the air of the room. He began work at 7.30 a.m. About 8.30 he felt a violent headache, w-hich compelled him to open the window ; but he nevertheless continued working till 10.30, when he had breakfast. An hour later the headache increased, and pain at the epigastrium came on, with vomiting of the food con- tained iu the stomach. He was taken to the Cbarite about 2 p.m. His face and lips were tiien pale, and his extremities cold. He com- plained of thirst, sense of constriction at the base of the chest, intense frontal headache, and severe pain in the loins. There was no pain or