477 OCCUPATIONS. Salts of this metal are used by furriera iu the preparation of their furs. Ill eftects are, perhaps, rarely produced; but a cases are re- corded. One was that of a womau, employed at a furrier's iu Ber- mondsey, who suffered from salivation. It would appear that at this establishment several women have been aifected; it was stated that red precipitate was used there instead of the nitrate, which is generally employed, but Dr. Whitley could not ascertain whether this was really the case. The other case is one which is related in full detail by Dr. Taylor in the 'Guy's Hospital Eeports ' (1864, p. 173). E. B—, set 33, be- came a patient of Dr. Eees on Dec. loth, 1863. For the last 4 years he had been occupied in paclcing the skins of animals which had been washed with an acid solution of mercury and then dried. He had nothing to do with any of the steps of this process, ha-ving simply to pack the furs. He suffered at first from salivation, which lasted 3 months ; after this he remained tolerably healtliy till twelve months before his admis- sion, when his hand became unsteady, so that he could not shave; soon afterwards he lost control over his limbs when standing or moving about; and later he began to have slight twitchings when in bed. On his admission he could walk with a little assistance, but his limbs trembled even while he was iu bed. He also suffered from headache and sleep- lessness ; the bowels were costive, but perspiration was profuse. After a day or two he became delirious; the urine, which was previously healthy, was retained, and was afterwards passed involuntarily. He became unconscious, and died on the a5th December. On post-mortem examination the body was found to be well nourished, and the muscles were of the normal colour. The brain, spinal cord, and viscera, appeared free from disease. Mercury was de- tected in the kidney, and in smaller quantities in the liver and brain. It was more completely deposited on fine copper gauze than by the galvanic process with gold and zinc. The urine was examined soon after the man's admission as a patient at Q-uy's; no mercury could be dis- covered in twelve ounces of it. A few fibres of fur prepared with mercury at the factory where this man worked gave a copious deposit of metallic mercury ; Dr. Taylor thinks that the poison entered the system both by the skin of the hands and the mucous membrane of the air-passages. It is remarkable that while the case was under observation salivation, mercurial fetor, and the blue line on the gums, were all absent; and the symptoms re- sembled those of chorea rather than those of any other disease. Miners.—During the present year the report of the commissioners appointed to inquire into the condition of mines in Great Britain has been presented to Parliament. It includes medical reports by Dr. Peacock and Mr. Bankart. It is, of course, full of information of the greatest value to those concerned, but which is hardly of sufficient novelty to bear reproduction in a very condensed form. It is shown that the mortality in metalliferous mines is greater than that in the coal mines, where, on account of the dangerous gases, more attention is paid to the proper ventilation of the mines, and tliia proves tliat bad air is the principal element in the production of this high death-rate. The main cause of death is pulmonary disease. This appears to be