3:20 lUOl'ORT ON SURGEllY. proiniueiit characteristic, while iu the sccoud this was entirely wanting. In the iirst the constitutional symptoms were very marked, and pre- ceded the local manifestations; while in the second the disease l)egan as a local disorder entirely, although the symptoms of constitutional irritation, of course, presented themselves as the disease advanced. The fact, however, that one form seems to be able to produce tlie other appears to establish the link between the two." • F. IJinJcle on the use of jtermantjanaic of potash ('Amer. Med. Tim,,' l86,3, ii, 2.';4, 261]).—"In the treatment of over fifty cases in the Campbell Hospital the modus operandi of employing the remedy was discovered, and the following is my report:—Prom one to four grains of (in ?) solution* was given in twenty-four hours, and it acted as a tonic astringent, oxygenator, and vivifier of the blood. As a consti- tutional remedy, it was only given in cases where the system was greatly depressed. Locally the concentrated solution was applied as an escharotic, with a hair pencil, over the surface of the wound, even extending its application over the cuticle four inches beyond the seat of the wound: After the wound was thoroughly pencilled, lint satu- rated with the dilute solution was applied, and the dressing repeated every tlu-ee or four hours. The dilute solution is prepared as follows:— From two to four drachms of the concentrated solution is added to a pint of water, the strength varying in accordance with the severity of the case. Previous to the application of the solution the wound should be thoroughly cleansed with Castile soap and water. In cases where the wound is deep or difficult of access, the concentrated solution, as an escharotic, was injected with a gutta-percha syringe two or three times during the day, and the dilute solution at regular intervals, when lint could not be applied. By this local application the most aggravated cases of gangrene, resulting from traumatic wounds, were arrested; the treatment was then modified to suit the state of the wound, until healthy granulations ensued. After the gangrenous slough had entirely disappeared, which occurred in about five days from the time the gangrene had been arrested, simple dressings were , applied with the dilute solution, nntil the wound was entirely healed. It also proved valuable as a remedial agent in bed-sores, where there was extensive suppuration along the spine and hips beneath the integu- ments, causing a number of openings in the cuticle for the discharge of pus. The sores and the parts beneath the integument were thoroughly cleansed with Castile soap, and water was then injected two or three times a day. Subsequently the aftected parts were thoroughly injected Avith a dilute solution (5iv ad Oj) of the permanganate of potassa. Occasionally, in aggravated cases, it was expedient to inject the con- centrated solution once a day for several days." It was also used in the treatment of stumps after amputation, iu some cases of haemorrhage, and as a general application in gunshot wounds. T. P. P/c/c, history of a recent epidemic of phagedcena or hoqntal gangrene,—St. George's Hospital ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 262).— *" Nitric acid failed to stop the disease; and as it causes excruciating pain, * The solution contains 85 grs. to the fluid ounce of water, dissolved by heat.