5 FORCES CONCERNED IN VITAL PHENOMENA. These organisms multiplied for a few days, and then gradually disappeared ; the animaleuliB first becoming motionless. In 11; days at Sologne and in 3 days at Eomainville only a few monads were discoverable. The vegetable substances disappeared first, and then the animalculse, in the order of their smallness. Dr. Lemaire observes that the organic germs were most numerous where fever prevailed. His experiments lead to the conclusion that organic matters are not dangerous except in so far as they contain microphytes and microzoa. At a subsequent sitting he showed that vegetable or animal germs, or both, are given off into the air in great numbers from fermenting and putrefying substances. (' Comptes Eend.,' vol. 59, P- .317-) Effects of Liglit upon Vegetable Life.—F. V. Jodin, m studymg the effects of light upon vegetable principles, finds that in many of these, such as turpentine and tannin, but especially in chlorophyll, light effects a rapid oxidation, while in the dark they remain unaltered. Thus, it appears that, apart from "life," the effect of light is precisely inverse to that which it produces under the influence of the living tissues. And not only so, but the life of the plant also, apart from light, exhibits itself only in phenomena of combustion, the plant becoming etiolated. The two forces together give an inverse result to that of either alone. (' Comptes Rendus,' vol. 59, p. 858.) Boussingault discusses the same subject (' Comptes Eondus,' vol. 58, p. 917). Seeds (maize) growing in darkness undergo the following changes : TVof i.t Starch and GIutobo p„ii„i„ » Azotizcd Mineral Undetermined weifcUt. Dextrine, and Sugar. ^-eUulose. n,.^tt(,i._ matter. maltcr. prill. grm. grm. gi-m. grm. gnu. gnu. grm. Seed . . 86 6'4 — o'5 o'5 o'9 o'2 0-2 Plant , . 4*5 07 0-9 o'2 i'3 o'9 o"2 0-4 Dlflerence —4'i —57 -fo'9 —0-3 -fo'S ... ... -f-o'2 The process is essentially the same as that of the development of the egg, both being attended with loss of weight and, so far at least as the eggs of turtles are concerned, with a development of heat. The seed, however, requires water from without, as well as air and warmth; the egg contains its own supply. The life of a plant growing in darkness answers to that of an animal unprovided with special organs of respiration. And the analogy is rendered more complete through the production by the plant (peas, beans, clover) of an azotized substance, asparagine, which is a product of combustion, and answers to urea. This substance is also formed in the light so long aa the corabustive process exceeds the deoxi- dation, but it disappears when the latter is most active, as just before the period of flowering. Effect of Heat locally api^lied on Development.—C. Dareste, in pur- suance of his investigations on the artificial production of monstrosities, states that in the egg of the fowl the area vasculosa, which is normally of a circular shape, and equally divided by the embryo, becomes oval and is unequally divided if the heat by which the hatching is effected is applied at a single point of the shell, this point not corresponding with its highest portion, wliere the embryo is situated. In machines in which heated air is used, and also in those in which the heat, though applied at a single point, is directed to the part occupied by the germinal vesicle, no