METAMORPHOSIS OF MATTER. 27 least undergo alteration, showing that the requisite material is not derived from them. The blood, considered as a whole, therefore, is not properly the material of nutrition, but is only a means of transport between the absorbent surfiice of the intestines and the tissues. It follows also that neither the fibrin nor the corpuscles is the material from which the tissues are directly nourished ; but probably the solid, especially the albuminous, constituents of the serum, which diminish to a certain extent in starvation, are the immediate source of supply. (' Vir- chow's Arch.,' 29, p. 241.) Assimilation of Isomorplious Substances.—Eoussin has made experi- ments on hens and pregnant rabbits, to determine whether isomorphous substances can act as substitutes for each other in the body—whether substances which externally to the organism replace each other without essential alteration of the crystalline form possess a like value in animal nutrition. With the food of the hens were mixed the carbonates of baryta, strontia, magnesia, iron, zinc, lead, copper, cobalt, and of both the oxides of manganese, hydrated^clay, and the oxide of antimony. Of these, all the monoxides passed into tlie egg-shell; the sesquioxides (the clay, iron, and manganese) and the oxide of antimony did not. Thus, the ex- pectations of the experimenters were fulfilled. Each metal gave special physical characters to the shell. Since the iodide, bromide, and fluoride, are isomorphous with the chlo- ride of sodium, of which the egg contains much, Eoussin anticipated that the former would take the place of the latter, which he found to be the case, and to so great an extent as to indicate that the egg was the chief channel for their excretion. In one egg as much as 8 grains of the iodide was found. The iodide and bromide, especially the latter, caused the shell to be very thin, or even altogether wanting, although the hens had free access to lime. This effect was least marked on the strongest and largest feeders. The chickens differed in no respect from ordinary ones. The following is one of Rous^sin's experiments with the arseniates (iso- morphous with the phosphates). A female rabbit took daily with its food 75 gr. of an arseniate. In 7 days it was sick, but after a pause of 12 days it bore the salt well for a long time. After a month it gave birth to 5 young, which it suckled. In the bones of these arsenic was found on the 25th, 43rd, and 60th day; scarcely any in the muscles. They had been either suckled or fed on food containing arsenic. After tiie second month they were fed with increasing doses of arsenic, which reached in one case as much as i"5gr. daily. During the 3 months the experiment lasted they were perfectly healthy. The bones then con- tained an increased quantity of arsenic, which was also present in the urine, mixed with triple phosphates; the muscles still showed scarcely any. The surviving rabbit of the brood (4 having been killed) was now deprived of arsenic, and became for some weeks much emaciated. After 3 months arsenic could be detected only in 600 gr. of bone, whereas in those last killed it was discoverable in 75 gr. The muscles contained none. In the mother rabbit traces were found after being 5 months without it. ('Ecceuil de Mem. de Med. milit.,' 3 ser., 9, p. 136- and ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1864, vol. 121, p. 5.) Functions of the Epiglottis.—Dr. Schiff shows by experiments on dot's