REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 142 definite and special forms, each of whicH requires definite and special management. Beau ('Ediu. Med. Joiirii.,' Aug.) records facts substantiating hia opinion that pleurisy may give rise to plitliisis in a patient who ])re- viously appeared free from this disease. He does not advise a spare diet during the pleurisy, because, by debilitating the system, it renders it more liable to tlie invasion of disease. "WoiLLEZ.—Bull. gen. de Thcirap., Jan. 15, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. States that tannin has an undoubted influence in improving tiie general condition of the phthisical patient, and in inducing a favorable change in nutrition, and that its tonic action is compai-able to that of cinchona. But he admits that this favorable action on the nutrition, and its reparative influence on the pulmonary lesion, are not constant; and he cannot accurately state the proportion of successful and un- successful cases he has observed. Even in the advanced period of pulmonary consumption Woillez has' known tannin produce a favor- able result, by arresting the symptoms in their progress, and in modify- ing them to such a degree as to produce an apparent cure. The principal conditions in which tanniu has seemed to fail in phthisis are the con- tinuance of fever, the i-apidity of the course of the disease, and the existence of recent delivery in women—circumstances which seem to make phthisis almost necessarily fatal. Smith, E., M.D.—Dietary in disease—in Phthisis. Lancet, April 16. Smith says emaciation is universal in cases of phthisis, but varies in degree and in the period of the disease at which it occurs. It depends (i) on defective appetite for certain kinds or for all kinds of food ; (2) on defective digestion; (3) on defective assimilation. Dislike of fat is one of the most striking features of the dainty appetite in the early stage, as also in states of general debility, and among certain classes, as tailors and shoemakers, who are particularly prone to fall into phthisis. "Whatever may be the dislike of fat, it never includes fat of every kind. Smith states that he found, in his researches relative to this subject, that, of five kinds of fats—viz., butter, suet, milk, bacon, and fat of butcher's meat—whilst only 51 per cent, ate all kinds, 72 per cent, ate 4 kinds, 82 per cent, ate 3 kinds, and 99 per cent, ate 2 kinds. Hence it is not difiicult to select some kinds of fat which are tolerated ; and of these butter and bacon, or fat boiled pork, should be used as freely as possible at the breakfast and tea meals. The following amount of fat should be eaten daily :—Butter iu milk, 2|. oz.; separate, 2 oz.; bacon or fat pork, from 2 to 4 oz. ; salad oil, i oz. ; fat in meat (20 per cent.), li oz.; suet in puddings, i oz., or i oz. twice a week, and cream ad libiium; which, besides the cream, will aftbrd upwards of 6oz. of car- bon, or nearly two thirds of the required daily quantity. For the purpose of invigorating the weak digestive and assimilative power, as much out- door exercise should be taken as possible—not less than 4 to 6 hours daily, when the strength and weather will permit. Alcohol in its