UEl'ORT ON SUllGERY. S22 appear to oxerfc any influouce. It was given in Hcveral cases, and in no one instance was tlie slightest benefit obtained. " The treatment, then, that lias been adopted during the lute out- break has been in the main opium, sometimes combined with ammonia or chlorate of potass, at other times alone, and a liberal diet. And, whatever may be the result of treatment in other epidemics, there iij no doubt that, in the one under consideration, this plan was followed by the best results ; in fact, it was the only one which really subdued the disease. Of forty-seven cases of which accurate records are kept, the average time which the opium took to subdue the disease was forty- eight hours, the shortest being twenty-four hours." Dr. Farher ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 110) says :—" I saw a large number of cases last summer at the New York Hospital, and afterwards at Bellevue ; and, with the assistance of my fi-iend Dr. Peck, I made trial of almost everything claimed to be useful in the treatment of the disease ; and we came to the conclusion that what is called there tiie disinfecting powder—composed of percarb. of iron, pulv. ciuchon., and opium—was the most grateful application, while constitutionally there was nothing to equal the scattering of patients the plentiful supply of fresh air, a clean skin, and cjenerous diet." 'F. S. Hamilton publishes a tabular statement of thirty-three cases ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 205), from which it appears that death twice occurred, though not till some days after the gangrene had been arrested. In the one case the patient died from exhaustion, the result of extensive suppuration in the knee-joint, the wound having been in perfectly healthy condition for several days. In the other, the patient died from dysentery, his wound having put on a healthy action two weeks before his decease. " In one case, where nitric acid was used, the disease was not arrested; and at the end of ten days it was found necessary to amputate the leg above the knee. The stump healed by the first intention. Looking at the table again, and analysing it, it will be seen that the average duration of all the cases under all treat- ments amounts to la'ijij days. Number treated with nitric acid . . .18 Average duration of disease . . . .16 days. Number treated with sol. bromine . . .14 Average duration 6'6428 days. Number treated with iodine . . . . i Average duration 7 days. The constitutional treatment consisted in good diet, whiskey, and iron. J. Moses found bromine to bo the most useful remedy ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 333). He remarks that " its application, though very painful, should be thorough. Great care should be taken in its application, which should be to the sound tissue, after separating the slough carefully. One application will often be sufUcient, but a second and third are not unfrequeiitly required." W. Thomson (loc. cit.) says,—" Eecognising the depressed condition of the first few cases, I endeavoured to remedy it by giving at short intervals nutrients and stimulants, with such tonics as seemed proper;