181 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Erasmus Wihsos.—Oii the nature, the varieties, and the treatment of Eczema. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 19. "Wilson lays great stress on the distinction between the moist and dry forms of eczema, comprising under the latter E. erythematosum, E. papulosum, and E. squamosum ; and under the first E. yesiculosum, E. ichorosiim, and E. pustulosum. In these the amount of exudation serous or muco-purulent is often astonishing, forming a positive flux. According to his observation the dry forms of eczema are more than twice as irequent as the moist. The copious exudation of E. ichorosum is not merely a serous fluid expelled from the vessels in consequence of over-distension of their parietes; it is a positive secretion, in which the cellular elements of the cuticle take an active part, and bestow upon tlie fluid its special properties—for example, its density and frequent opalescent appearance. That same influence which causes the discharge of such immense quantities of fluid from the mucous membrane of the bowels in cholera is also active in E. ichorosum. In the course of a few hours several pints of fluid may be poured out from the denuded surface of the derma, partly, no doubt, by Avay of excretion, but not less actively also by way of secretion. The causes of eczema are grouped under the heads of general and local debility, the former comprising assimilative, nutritive, and nervous debility. In 300 cases 278 were referable to general and 22 to local debility; and of the above 278 there were 143 examples of assimilative debility, 103 of nutritive debility, and 32 of nervous. If we consider them in the order of their numeri- cal importance, the arrangement in reference to the leading remote pre- disposing causes would stand as follows:—deranged digestion, 51; errors of diet, 33 ; weakly parentage, 21; vicissitudes of cold, heat, and moistvn-e, 21; anxiety and afiliction, 16; hereditary diathesis, 16; ungenial climate, 14; constitutional and organic disease, 14; excessive labour, mental and jihysical, 11 ; uterine, reproductive, and puerperal derangements, 11 ; errors of hygiene, 10; gouty and rheumatic dia- thesis, 8 ; deranged menstruation, 7 ; fevers, eruptive and malarious, 7 ; excessive growth, 7 ; vaccination, 7. Of constitutional remedies the most important are aperients and tonics ; among the former Wilson values highly sulphate of magnesia, which may be given in combination with small doses of quinine and nitric acid. Arsenic is only to be given when other means have accomplished all that tliey can ; it should always be administered in small bulk and on a full stomach. It should be given in small doses, and its use should be continued for a considerable time. The local treatment of eczema must be conducted according to the general principles of surgery. The inflamed part must be soothed in the acute stages of the disease, it must be supported and stimulated during the chronic stages, and it must be excited to a new action in tlie most chronic stage of all. To soothe we must employ water-dress- ing, unguents, cerates, well-adjusted bandages, and rest. To give local tone, we must!have recourse to stimulant applications of various kinds. The water-dressing is useful where there is heat, pain, itching, or ten- sion, but should not be continued too long, lest it lower the tone of the tissues and perpetuate the eruption. AVlien great irritability prevails in the constitution of the patient we require to have recom'se to seda-