377 PLUKAL BIUTHS. tlie wLole still more remarkable. The expulsion of the first child was very painful and slow, in spite of energetic contractions. The head changed from the 4th to the ist position. A living girl, weighing 5^ lbs., was born. The second child followed in ten minutes, the left horn of the uterus coming more into the centre, and contract- ing powerfully. The head rapidly changed from the 3rd to the 2nd position, and the child was also a girl, weighing lbs. The removal of the placenta required the introduction of the hand. It was single, with common chorion and divided amnion. The uterus maintained— as long as it was observed in the puerperal period—its broad and centrally indented form. Case 2.—The pregnancy Avas simple, but the form of the uterus was much more striking and peculiar. The woman was a tall, muscular primipara, who had always been healthy, and first menstruated in her 16th year. The fundus of the uterus was felt in the median line, a hand's breadth above the projecting umbilicus. A complete division of the uterus was recognised into a large, lower, but broadly arched part, passing to the left, and a smaller one, ball-shaped, and passing over the first obliquely to the right. The first division was estimated to be of the size of a uterus in the eighth month of pregnancy, the other of about four months. The right division was nearly empty, although foetal movements could be sometimes felt in it. The head lay in the lower segment, which was much thinned ; the cervix shortened, and directed backwards and to the right. When labour commenced both divisions of the uterus contracted uniformly, the double form thus being more marked. The membranes Avere punctured. Labour was still very painful and tedious, the pains being strong, with little or no advance. The fundus of the uterus appeared to expand obliquely from both sides. The patient Avas bled, and the forceps applied. This was accompanied with much hasmorrhage; the cord was curled three times 'round the child's neck and once round the body ; the child, a boy, weighed 6-5 lbs., and was stillborn. The placenta was removed by manual extraction. The irregular form of the uterus was observed during the puerperal period. PLT7Ei.L BIUTHS. Dr. Abarbanell (' Mon. f. Geb.,' Oct., 1S64), related to the Obstetri- cal Society of Berlin a case of twin labour protracted during three days —the first child was born on the 236th day after conception—and in the discussion which followed. Prof. Martin objected to the practice, followed in England, of immediately delivering the second child, and stated that, as a consequence, post-partum hemorrhage was not uncom- mon. Dr. Kristeller considered it a favorable event if the expulsion of the two children did not follow too rapidly; the uterus could then more slowly contract, and gain power for the second delivery. Dr. Winckel dissented from this view, and mentioned cases in which severe hajmorrhage had occurred in the interval between the birth of the two