58 BEPOBT ON PKACTICAL MEDICINK. left scapula ; no bruit was heart! over the base. No history ol any illness subsequent to the one described. The question is, was tliat so-called " cold " not a case of rheumatic fever ? Was there not latent pericarditis, endocarditis, or both ? The subsequent discovery that there was an im- perfect mitral closure, was presumptive evidence in favour of its being so. However, the great interest attaclied to such cases is not whether there was pericarditis, and in consequence an adherent pericardium, but what is of fixr more importance, was this pericarditis of rheumatic origin ? How would it be likely to affect the future prospects of tlie patient ? On this subject, the statistical labours of Dr. IBarclay tend to show that when a person has had rheumatic fever and pericarditis, they are liable to suffer with endocarditis, even though the usual symptoms of rheumatism should not again show themselves. Dr. Sutton urges, that wherever there is fibrous or fibro-serous tissue, there is a seat for rheumatic inflammation. Thus it may attack the sheath of a sensitive nerve, producing severe neuralgia, or it may so impair the functions of a motor nerve that the parts supplied by it are paralysed. He records a case from the hospital experience of Dr. Gull, of paralysis of the left side of the face, which was associated at first with sour perspirations, flying pains, and languor, and after 3 weeks, with well-marked rheumatic symptoms, while the paralysis gradually diminished. The cause of the disorder was exposure to cold and wet. Dr. Sutton concluded by saying, that he found great assistance in diagnosing such obscure cases, from taking into consideration the temperament of the patient. Persons of the nervous and nervo-sanguine temperament, are the most liable to this disease; those of the bilious the least so. We must form our diagnosis of the diathesis from the bodilj^ conformation and functional disturbances, and not conclude that a person has not the rheumatic diathesis because he has never had actual rheu- matism. For the supervention of the disease depends on the diathesis being developed into a disease by accidental causes. Now as to the relation of these causes to the attack. A large number of the patients have an hereditary history of rheumatic fever, but a still larger deny that there is any rheumatic affection in the family. In making this inquiry, it should not be forgotten that the law of hereditament appears to be, that parents transmit a teridency, not to a given disease, but to degene- ration of a given class of iissties. Probably the parents have never had the disease, but one or both of them have suffered from impaired nutri- tion, and in consequence degeneration of certain tissues; the off^spring may have the mucous, the vascular, or the fibroid diathesis, depending on which of the great class of tissues of the embryo this tendency to degene- ration has been inflicted. For example, in a case of phthisis, there may be no family history of consumption, but there may be a history that the patient's father followed a certain occupation which tended to deteriorate his bodily vigour, or that his habits were such as gave rise to imperfect functional activity, or disordered nutrition of the lungs. In a case of gout, there was often no hereditary history of that disease, but frequently of abuse of alcohol in the patient's father. In acute rheumatism, similar inquiry generally shows either that one or both parents have liad rheu- matic fever, or a sister disease, such as rheumatic gout, or that the father has drank hard; or lastly, it is not uncommon to hear that the parents i