NEllYOUS SYSTEM. 85 intermedio-lateralis were injured by disease; while in the white columns many of the nerve-fibres had suffered either partial or entire destruc- tion. Now, the only recorded symptom to which we can point as likely to result from these lesions is the laboured respiration; for this might have been partly due to injury of the tractus intermedio-lateralis, which is connected with the lower roots of the spinal accessory nerve. Through the brachial or cervical enlargement we found that the decus- sating fibres of the anterior commissure were destroyed to a consider- able extent by fatty degeneration ; that blood-vessels in the neighbour- hood were enlarged and diseased ; that the anterior roots of the nerves in some sections were more or less damaged; and that many of the fibres of the white columns, especially the anterior and the lateral, had suffered in a similar way. And yet, notwithstanding these various lesions of structure, we have not a single corresponding symptom or im- pairment of function recorded in the history of the case. There is no mention of any abolition whatever of either motion or sensation in the upper extremities ; and on making further inquiries upon this point, I was informed that the patient had apparently the perfect use of his arms, and employed them in the usual way in eating his meals. Tet there can be no doubt that there was some abnormal condition of the arms and hands; and it is extremely probable that a closer scrutiny during life would have revealed its nature. NETJ3iA?fN, E.—Deutsche Klinik, 7, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 185. States that it is a matter of experience that in certain paralyses, especially facial, the paralysed muscles soon cease to react to the in- duction current, applied either to the muscles or to the nerves • while with the constant current on closing or opening the circuit they react vigorously under the same conditions, more vigorously than those of the sound side. In the same proportion as voluntary motor power re- turns the reaction to the induced current increases, and that to the constant decreases. The cause of this remarkable phenomenon Neumann believes to be the momentary duration of the induced current. In a case of rheumatic facial paralysis, where the strongest induced currents had failed for a month to produce any contraction, and where the will was equally powerless, active twitchings were pro- duced by the constant current both on closing and opening. Now, single induction-shocks both in opening and closing had no effect, ■which Neumann considers to prove that the non-efficacy of the induced current did not depend either on the rapid succession of its currents or on their varying direction. The real cause is, he thinks, the momen- tary duration of the induced current, for when the constant current, by a contrivance, was made nearly as momentary, its stimulus caused no contraction, but this regularly ensued if the current continued only for a brief time. Du CHEITNE.— On tJte state of the Sympathetic Nerve in A.taxie loco- motrice progressive. Q-az. Hebdom., 1864, 8, 10. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 185. In some cases of this disease Ducheune observed that the pupils were