78 hepout on practical medicine. plexus, and its dependent neighbouring ganglia. The morbid action starting in the ganglionic system propagates itself by way of the splanchnic nerves to the cerebi'o-spinal centre, and a fit follows. Eamskill enforces more particularly that this disorder of the ganglionic system is a disease per se, often existing alone, and an antecedent to any epileptic attack; in fact, that the epilepsy is an accident which issues from, and follows it, and so is fundamentally difierent from epi- lepsy arising from disease in the cerebro-spinal centre, or from a distinct cause of irritation situate in any other part of the body. This gan- glionic affection is as much related to hysteria, tetanus, catalepsy, and perhaps intermittent fever and cholera as to epilepsy; and it seems wise in the treatment of such a case to ignore the convulsive attacks for a time, if they be infrequent, or look upon them only as an index of our progress in restoring power to the great centre. Eamskill would ignore the attacks altogether, were it not for the fact, that each attack may, by causing congested blood-vessels, by effusions, by mechanically weak- ening delicate brain structure, predispose to other attacks, or by dilat- ing the minute and weakened vessels of the medulla oblongata, cause permanent mischief. The subjects of ganglionic epilepsy have generally suffered from various depressing causes, as over-work, under-feeding, mental anxiety, grief; in the female sex from exhausting discharges, menorrliagia, many miscarriages, numerous children, prolonged lacta- tion. Many cases arising from the last cause met with in general hospitals, possess every symptom that epileptics exhibit, even to the clonic convulsive action of the muscles, minus only the general convul- sion and loss of consciousness. McDonnell, — Observations on the treatment of certain forms of Epilepsy; bromide of potassium. Dublin Quart. J ourn. of Med. Sci., Feb. 1864. The author confirms to a great extent the testimony of Sir Charles Locock as to the remarkable efficacy of this drug in epileptiform disease connected with uterine derangement. In some cases of this kind, however, it fails. He thinks a dose of gr. x, ter die is often sufiR- cient, and says that he has given 30 or 40 grains, and even more, ter die, for months together. The remedy produces good efiects in other forms of epilepsy besides those connected with uterine disorder. In certain cases where it has proved successful, a peculiar odour was exhaled from the skin and from the excretions shortly before the occurrence of the paroxysms. This odour was somewhat like that which the skin con- tracts by handling brass, or that of metallic arsenic when sublimed. Dr. Gr. Eogers, (Lancet Dec. 10) reports also very favorably of the same remedy. Stein, J.—Memorab. 8, 8, 1863 ; Schmidt's Jalirb.,Tol. 121, p. 42. Eelates a case of tetanus occurring in a boy, est. 12, after bathing in a cold stream while heated. Trismus commenced the next day, and the disease subsequently involved the extremities and the trunk. The pulse was only accelerated during the first few days, the respiration remained pretty steadily at 28 per minute, and the temperature be- tween 4 and 6 p.m. was on an average ioi°-i F. Tartar emetic and