121 CmCULATOllY SYSTEM. in a comparatively narrow space, or on a ripple cansed by the projection between the aorta and the pulmonary artery. BoTTGEn, H.—On spontaneous rupture of the Heart. Arch. d. Heilk., 4, p. 501, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 48. Bottger relates 2 cases occurring, one in a female of intellect, set. 69, the other in a male, set. .30, who had insulBciency of the aortic valves, and hypertrophy of the left ventricle. From a number of cases he has collected, it appears that ruptures never occur spontaneously in a healthy organ. Fatty degeneration is the great cause of ruptures that are not produced by violence; among 62 cases it was found 3 2 times, while endocarditis was observed only thrice. Ruptures occur most often in advanced age ; on an average, about the middle of the 60th year. Traumatic ruptures generally take place in the right auricle, spontaneous in the left ventricle. lii the greater number of the cases, 31 out of 49, death occurred instantaneously ; a short continuance of life is only possible when the pericardium in the vicinity of the rupture is adherent and thickened. In many cases there are no premonitory symptoms; in others, especially in incomplete ruptures, the event is preceded by pain in the cliest (in 21 out of 34 cases), great dyspnoea (11 times), nausea and vomiting (6 times). Habeeshon, S. 0., M.T>.~Climcal observations illustratina the effects produced by the implication of branches of the Pnemiogastric JSTerve tn Aneurismal Tumours and in some morbid growtJis. Proc of Med and Chir. Soc, vol. 4, 1864, p. 281. The author stated that pressure on the pneumogastric nerve and its branches by aneurismal tumours in the chest led, first, to paroxysmal and spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the larynx; secondly to dimimshed muscular power and to paralysis and wasting of the laryngeal muscles; and thirdly, to pulmonary congestion and consolidation: but that gastric symptoms, such as were found in peripheral pulmonary irritation of incipient phthisis, were not observed in thoracic aneurism. Ihe ettect ot changed nervous supply of the oesophagus was briefly relerred to ; spasmodic contraction, and possibly also ulceration, taking place without direct pressure; the author stating that spasmodic con traction from this cause aggravated the effects of the direct pressure of tumours generally. Ifc was likewise mentioned that occasionally no dysphagia existed, because the whole of the (esophagus opposed to the tumour was pushed aside en masse. Fi' Dubl^^oTn?r ««^. treatment of Thm-acic Aneurism. Uubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., May, 1864.) Moore has observed cases of this disease in which there existed to- £ .r r' ^y^Pt^'^^' ptosis, alteration of the muscles of expres sion, heat of the ears pustular and hepatic eruptions, and other silng of nervous pressure. He refers to Barensprung's obserWtions as to th^ production of herpes as an illustration oV the^ossibillty of" cu aneJ s eruption being dependent on nervous irritation. Tlie herpetic eriinZ? m one case had persisted for 10 years. ^^erpetic eruption