98 EBPOET ON PEACTIOAL MEDICINE. paralysed. The temperature of the parts supplied by the nerves was at first slightly lowered, and afterwards notably increased by a degree (r2) of Centigrade (•2-1 Fahr.). Simultaneously with this increase of temperature signs of congestion appeared. After the ice was removed the peripheric elevation of temperature continued a considerable time. The parts adjacent to the seat of increased warmth became notably cooler. He gives the two following cases as examples of paralysis from cold:—A worlinian exposed himself to a cold drauglit, and con- tracted thereby pneumonia of the left side, soon followed by anajsthesia of the left foot as high as the ankle, which soon disappeared. A female after washing in a brook went a long way in a cold wind. The next morning pains set in in both the left limbs, which ceased spontaneously in a few days, and gave place to cutaneous anesthesia, which spread over the whole arm, even above the shoulder, and extended over the foot and leg. The anaesthesia was of both touch, pain, and temperature. Electro-muscular sensibility and contractility were moderately lessened, voluntary motion was difficult, and walking, especially in the dark, was very unsteady. The power of estimating weight was defective. No hysterical symptoms existed. By the application of the interrupted and continuous currents from the cord to the nerves, and from the nerves to the muscles, recovery was effected in 8 weeks. Teotjsseatj.—On N'eiiralgias. L'Union, 18, 20, 21, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 293. Trousseau states, as the result of large experience, that in every neuralgia the spinous processes of certain vertebrae are painful on pressure, especially those at the level where the diseased nerves come off" from the cord. Exactly the same holds good in the case of tri- geminal neuralgia, whether, as usually occurs, the occipital nerve is simultaneously affected or not. In this case both cervical (uppermost) vertebrae are painful. As long as a peripheral pain remains local, and there is no increased sensibility of the cord, so long the vertebrae also are free from tenderness. But if the organism reacts to the painful irritation, e.g. that of pain in the side from an injury, the pain of pleuritis, or that produced by a biliary calculus, then spinal ten- derness shows itself, then the pain becomes converted into a neuralgia. Valleix's description of the painful points in intercostal neuralgia is not quite confirmed by Trousseau. He says there are only two which are constantly met with, viz. the spinous-process one, and that cor- responding to the junction of the cartilage \vith the rib. In crural neuralgia the spinous processes of the last dorsal vertebraj, in sciatic the sacral spines are painful. If the neuralgia changes its seat, the spinal pain varies correspondingly. Erom intercostal neuralgia the pain of pleuritis is distinguished by being confined to the part of the chest situated behind a vertical liue drawn downwards from the nipple from that attendant on commencing tuberculosis by the situation of the latter in the first intercostal space close to the sternum. Trousseau notices the remarkable preference shown by certain general disorders for special localities, as, for instance, the affection of the fifth nerve and the solar plexus in chlorosis, that of the gastric nerves in ex-