MSPORT ON SURGERY. 286 leg may be extended by it, after the more immediate resistance lias been overcome. The special conditions of each case must decide how much may be obtained by forcible extension, and how much should be left for the machine. Should the latter not be able to overcome all resistance in exceptional cases, forcible extension may be repeated after a time. In lo of the author's cases the joint was still suffering from chronic inflammation—the patients complaining of more or less acute pain iji the knee as soon as it was touched. Nine of these presented the symptoms of white swelling; there were no fistula?, but in all the tibia was displaced somewhat backwards, so that the cartilage was undoubtedly destroyed. The angle varied between 130 and 75 degrees, the duration of the disease between 6 months and .3. In "the tenth case the joint had suppurated; four fistulas passed into a granulating cavity; the condyles of the femur had become irregular and worn away, more especially on the inner side, inducing a slight genu varum. The limb was forcibly extended in 8 of these patients; in the ninth there were symptoms of rather acute inflammation, and the joint contained a large amount of fluid ; permanent extension by weights was therefore preferred, whilst most active counter-irritation was kept up by the actual cautery, &c. In five months the leg was straight, but there was rather a considerable subluxation, and the patella was anchylosed ; the patient could walk with the help of a machine. Similar treatment was employed in the tenth case ; in six months the limb was straight, and the patient, assisted by a high sole, could walk without pain. A large number of cases, of course, occurred in which either amputation had to be performed for the purpose of saving life, or in which the inflamma- tion was treated by various means, with the intention of rendering the limb again useful by forcible extension at a later period. Forty-six patients, in whom the inflammatory processes had termi- ' uated, were treated by forcible extension; all, except one, were dis- charged with straight limbs. In the single case of failure a small sore formed on the calf, for the healing of which the patient would not wait, but left the hospital. The ultimate result was, of course, very various; sometimes the patients recovei'ed good use of the joint ; in other cases they were compelled to avail themselves of crutches. Once the peroneal nerve was temporarily paralysed ; in another patient the lower end of the femur was attacked with chronic inflammation; in a third an abscess formed, and left a fistula passing into the joint. One case of bony anchylosis was ruptured, and the limb straightened; unfortunately, only fibrous union took place, so that it was necessary to still continue the use of a crutch. The shortest period in which a patient could walk well without a stick, but with a machine, was 13 days ; on an average the patient could walk about the room without pain in about 4 weeks. In not quite the sixth part of all the cases, the knee-joint possessed some mobility after treatment; in all these, however, it had been movable before the operation, the patients being able both to flex and extend the limb to a certain degree. The author never succeeded in gaining any mobility when the patella was anchylosed. The patient