226 heport on siiuqeey. PYiEMIA. M. Burggraeve treated sixty-five wounded patients with the sulphUes ('Bull. Beige,' 1863, p. 342). The sulphite of magnesia was admiuistered in the dose of fifteen grains, four to six times a day ; it was given witli a little sugar in a glass of water. The wounds were dressed with lint wet with a solution of the sulphite of soda. Ho found that the internal use of the sulphite of magnesia promoted digestion; the tongue remained clean, and the skin moist; the urine was clear and acid ; it resisted decomposition for an unusually long time when exposed to the air. The local use of the sulphite of soda caused anaesthesia or insensibility of the wounded surface, especially marked in cases of burns. It ap- peared to stimulate the process of reparation, for the wounds filled rapidly with granulations. More important is its action on the purulent discharge, which is diminished in quantity, and rendered inodorous and perfectly neutral. Dr. Doutrelepont on the operative treatment of pyamia (' Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 100).—The author relates the following case -n^th the view of showing, that even when recovery appeared hopeless, and all the symptoms of pyaemia were present (fever, rigors, yellow colour of the skin, metastatic abscesses in various parts of the body), removal of the morbid focus would have saved the life of the patient, had not an intercurrent affection occurred. Joseph K—, ast. 40, was injured by a fall on the 7th May, 1859. There was a transverse fracture of the humerus above the condyles, and the latter were broken into several pieces. The forearm was displaced backwards. On the 17th a plaster bandage was applied ; fourteen days later it was removed, owing to pain about the inner condyle. Acute inflammation with suppuration of the joint followed. On the 24th June the joint was excised ; on the 30th there were rigors, followed by very violent fever; the wound, which had begun to granulate healthily, became relaxed, and the pus ichorous ; the forearm swelled, the wrist- joint inflamed and suppurated. Owing to the violent fever and repeated rigors, the patient's strength rapidly sank; large abscesses quickly formed on the sacrum and scapula, and, when opened, dis- charged an ichorous fluid, mixed with pieces of dead cellular tissue; the skin became yellowish. Amputation of the arm was, therefore, per- formed on the 8th June. By the lath, the general condition of the patient had decidedly improved, and the fever had diminished. Tlic yellow colour of the skin gradually disappeared; almost the whole wound healed by the first intention. The metastatic abscesses soou filled with healtliy granulations ; the patient became able to get out of bed for some hours each day. Suddenly on the 28th July symptoms of internal strangulation appeared, and'death followed on the eveuing of the 29th. The post-mortem examination proved that the constriction was eftected by a fold of the mesentery; no abscesses were found in the lungs. The author also mentions two cases of amputation of the thigh,