812 UEPORT ON SURGERY. 1864, i, y). F. Iloi'iior on the lesions of the retina, which accompany Bright's disease ('Oplith. Review,' i, 75). Dr. HiJring, case of retinal affection from Bright's disease (i. c., p. 159). A. Moorea on retinitis pigmentosa (I. c, p. 46). Van Biervliet and van Rooy on retinitis pigmentosa in the horse ('Bull. Beige,' 1863, p. 542, &c.). O. Just, embolism of arteria centralis retin.-c ('Ophth. Review,' i, 163). F. Horner, case of retinal tumour (1. c, p. 164). M. Fano, case of trau- matic separation ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 562). A. von Graefe on perforation of the separated retina (' Arch, fiir Ophth.,' ix, 2, p. 8/;). W. Bowman on needle operations in detached retina (' Ophth. IIosp. Reports,' iv, 133). AMAtrnosis. W. Maehenzie records a case of amaurosis coincident toitli oxaluria ('Ophth. Review,' i, 213). The disease was of two years' duration, when, on Sept. 18, 1863, the following symptoms were noted:—Left or letter eye.—The left optic disc is very irregular in form ; and stretching upwards from it in the retina are two long white lines or streaks, formed apparently by enlarged and obliterated vessels, the coats of which have become condensed and opaque. With this eye reads No. 18 of Jager's test types. Bight or toorse eye.—The right vitreous is so turbid, that the fundus oculi is not visible. Can read none with this eye." He was ordered a pill, thrice a day, consisting of two grains of sulphate of iron and two of extract of gentian. On the 21st, tlie specific gravity of the urine was 1020; its reaction acid; no albumen; octahedral crystals of oxalate of lime abundant. On the 28th lie was ordered to omit the pills, and to take ten minims thrice daily of a mixture of equal parts of nitric and muriatic acid. On the 21st Jan., 1864, it is noted that "both eyes improve; right disc much better defined ; little apparent change in left retina; the two white streaks in it unaltered. Reads No. 8 with left eye at five inches, and No. i with right at fourteen inches." This patient " had come from a distant colony first to the north of Ireland and latterly to Glasgow, in the hope of obtaining a restoration of his sight; and finding no benefit from the treatment which had been used, was about to return home in despair, when he fell under ray care. The result far exceeded my expectations. This is the second case in which I have seen much benefit from the use of nitro-muriatic acid in chronic internal inflammation of the eye, combined with oxaluria. It is evident, however, that in the present case a turn to the symptoms was first given by the sulphate of iron." J. Hutchinson, clinical data respecting cerebral amaurosis, more espe- cially toith reference to tliatform supposed to he connected with the me of tobacco ('Lond. Hosp. Rep.,' i, 33).—"A person, most commonly an adult, and usually a man, begins rather suddenly to notice that he cannot see well, ' there is a fog over everything'—he has no musca^, no Hashes of liglit, no pain in the eyeballs ; frequently, he has more or less of headache, but often not much, and very often there is more or less of giddiness. A symptom, I believe not hitherto noticed, is, according to my experience, one of those most frequently present, viz.—excessive