UKPOllT ON MIDWIFEliy, ETC. 856 liationts aro ill ablo to bear auy great loss, and rapidly succumb to liiuuiorrliagc. Two cases of Ca-sarean section occurred, but in botli the child was already dead when extracted. There were i8 cases of eclampsia, of which died, 2 of thein undelivered. In all, where the iirino was examined, albumen was found. Two cases of distinct arthritic pyscmia aro reported, both proving fatal, after natural labour. It is worthy of remark that, although the attendants bad in each case delivered from 15—20 cases before the character of this disease was recognised, yet to none of the patients was any disease communicated. Hupture of the uterus occurred in 3 cases, besides 2 where it happened during the operation of craniotomy. In every case it occurred in vertex presentations. The proportion to the whole number of cases is I in 49/57. Craniotomy was performed in 18 cases, or i in 833 cases— in 17 of these for want of due relation between the foetal head and the passages. In i case the antero-posterior diameter was 2^ inches, while the child weighed 10^ lbs. Four deaths occurred. The forceps was applied in 82 cases—alone in 75 cases, followed by craniotomy in 5 cases and by turning in 2. JVo death occurred to the mothers. Of the children in 67 cases 12 were stillborn. Version was performed in 77 cases. The result to the children is only recorded in 53 cases. Of these, 15 were living and 38 dead. Of the mothers 6 died, all after hsemorrhage. Of transverse presentations 152 occurred, and of these, 16 were born alive and 36 were stillborn. The reports on retention of the placenta and post-partum haemorrhage are probably in excess of these actual conditions ; 105 cases of the former and 1^8 of the latter are recorded. Placenta prajvia occurred in 21 cases, and 3 deaths re- sulted, in all of which version had been effected. The funis presented in 43 cases, of which 13 children were born living and 30 dead. Fifty cases of face presentation occurred, of which 46 were born alive. There were 3 cases of triplets and 113 cases of twins, or about i in 129 of the Avhole number of women delivered. Induction of premature labour Avas performed in 11 cases. Of these, 6 children died and 5 were born alive. One mother died. Contraction of the bony passages was the reason for the operation in all. GENEEAL AKATOMY AKD PIITSIOLOGT. Dr. Joulin, on " The Pelvis considered in various Eaces of Man " ('L'lJniou M6d.,' 71, 1864). Breslau, Prof., "Experimental Eesearches on the continuance of the Life of the Fcetus after the Death of the Mother" ('Monattschr. f. Geburtsk.,' August, 1864). Dr. A. Hegar, " The Glands of the Decidua and the Hydrorrhoea Gravidarum" ('Mon. f. Geb.,' Dec, 1863). Di*. Joulin submits the following conclusions as the result of his examination of the pelvis in dilferent races of man:—(i) The most important features which have been pointed out as charaeterisuig the Negro and Mongolian races do not exist. (2) The slight diilerences which are observed in the pelvis of the three human races have