HKPOET ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. iuG tion, on a full breatli being taken the liver will be carried downwards into the abdomen if its npper and anterior surlacc be not adherent to the parictes. (2) If it is adherent, unless the adhesions be long, it will remain where it was at first, which can easily be ascertained by percussion. (3) Before proceeding to ascertain the existence of a 8j)ot most suitable for puncture by the exploring trocar, a careful general examination and comparison sliould be made of the two hypochondria, standing at the foot of the bed. There Avill then, in general, be found a more or less uniform bulging, corresponding to the region of the con- tour of the liver. (4) If superficial oedema be found, the abscess may usually be concluded to be under it, or near at hand. (5) Examine carefully for the slightest degree of intercostal fulness with tenderness, desiring the patient to breathe deeply while the finger is pressed gently along tlie spot indicated. If the breath be caught under the finger on a deep inspiration that (says Dr. Cameron) is the spot for puncture. (6) In the absence of local fulness, the place where the inspiration is most impeded must be our guide, having due regard to anatomical rela- tions. Whenever the indications are clear as to the presence of sup- puration, and as to the site of the abscess, the constitution meanwhile evincing sympathy even approaching to irritative fever and general distress, the sooner the abscess is discharged the better for the safety of the patient; for the volume of purulent matter is rapidly increasing, with extensive destruction of liver, involving the danger of bursting in- wards, along with a surely increasing hectic and emaciation. Dr. Cameron has shown that under such unfavorable circumstances both exploration and puncture for the discovery and evacuation of the abscess are more safe and efficacious than had before been known or believed. He states as follows:—" (i) I have repeatedly plunged a trocar into an enlarged liver without finding an abscess, and never had the slightest ill result beyond a little local pain, yielding readily to opium, or to a few leeches applied round the puncture. (2) I have also found such puncture followed by gradual absorption and disap- pearance of the enlargement. (3) In men who died with abscesses which I failed to reach I have found it extremely diflicult to detect the marks of such unsuccessful explorations, and this, too, when there had not been any adhesions; so that the danger said to attend upon such an operation has been diagnosed, I believe, rather from analogy than from any consequent mortality. (4) A trocar with canula of moderate size I consider preferable to either scalpel or lancet for opening the abscess. The scalpel may be used when the skin is thick, to divide the integument, and thus to allow the trocar to enter with gentle force. (5) The pus will flow readily through the wound with a little help from a probe and from the aid of gravitation; and Avhen the abscess seems well emptied the canula should be carefully fastened in, by twine passed through perforations in its rim, and also by a broad piece of adhesive plaster having an opening in its centre. (6) A large warm poultice should be laid over the side, and the patient placed on it, having a pad or pillow so placed as to prevent pressure on the canula. The same course should be adopted when it proves difficult or impos- sible, from the size and deep-seated nature of the abscess, to replace a