113 CIECULATOllY SYSTEM. the ventricle. Sometimes we seem to find evidence of tricuspid regurgi- tation in the condition of the jugular veins during life ; but these cases are rare, and it is only on tlieoretical grounds that the frequency of tricuspid regurgitation can be maintained. Its advantages appear to be very problematical; it would be only at the best transferring to the brain and other organs the mechanical pressure which would be sus- tained equally well by the lungs, and certainly very much better by the mechanical arrangements of the heart itself If these views be correct, any long inquiry into the ground of the commonly received opinion that tricuspid regurgitation is not usually accompanied by valvular murmur would be superfluous; and the habitual absence of any murmur in cases of obstruction of the right side of the heart, so far from proving that tricuspid regurgitation is unaccompanied by murmur, must in such case be added to the other arguments intended to disprove the opinion of the occurrence of actual tricuspid regurgitation. Tri- cuspid murmurs are occasionally distinctly to be recognised ; but they are rarely audible, for two reasons—first, that they are singularly liable to be drowned in the sound of pulmonary obstructions ; and, secondly, because occurring, as transmitted tricuspid obstruction does, towards the end of heart disease, murmurs on this side of the heart would be even more likely than mitral murmurs to become inaudible through feebleness of the current of blood. Ormerod next insists on the impor- tance of not attempting to deduce from auscultatory signs more than they fairly convey. An unequivocal meaning, regardless of circum- stances, must not be attached to each sound, but we must examine tlfe auscultatory evidence from other points of view, eliminating by the aid of these circumstances the various surd answers till we arrive at the one which alone is compatible with the results obtained in other ways. Ormerod states that under ordinary circumstances the products of inflam- mation undergo the same changes on the valves as elsewhere; the adventitious matter contracts, coalesces with the subjacent membrane, and finally is removed by absorption. In a certain number of cases, however, this perfect repair fails, and inflammation results in permanent injury by induration of the valve. Under affections of the muscular substance Ormerod notices fibrous and fatty degeneration. Of the former he says it occurs chiefly, but not exclusively, in connection with mixed hypertrophy and dilatation, affecting, by preference, the thinner portions of the heart's walls. The muscular tissue, under these circumstances, becomes hard and elastic, the cavity retains its shape when cut open, the muscle creaks under the knife, and the cut surface looks paler than natural, but is of a white rather than a yellow hue. And under the microscope the ex- planation of these changes appears in the substitution or the addition of an unusually large amount of fibrous or fibro-cellular tissue. The term degeneration does not fairly apply to all the conditions under which this change is found to occur. The youth and strength of the patients in whom it is most commonly found, and its habitual con- nection with hypertrophy, make one rather refer it to active nutrition. In accordance with this view, in such cases the struggle for life, the re- sistance to death, is generally strong, and the suffering severe and pro-