DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 153 found tliafc if mercury has been employed regularly for 4 or 5 days with- out showing any sign of action upon the system, a considerable amount of irritability is begotten, the pulse becomes hard and sharp, and the dysenteric symptoms become aggravated. " I have on several occasions seen this dilBculty experienced in procuring mercurialism in cases of dy- sentery in China, and in every such case the disease either proved ex- tromciy urgent or had a fatal termination; -while, on the other hand, both in China and elseM'here, when tlie mei'cury haft speedily acted all the svmptoms have rapidly improved, and the case has proceeded to a favorable termination mthout further difficulty. I have also seen cases where, mercurial frictions having been continued after it has been adnsable to stop the internal administration of mercury and have recourse to other remedies, ptyalism has set in, and with its accession all the dysenteric symptoms have begun at once to improve." Should it not be deemed advisable to proceed with the mercury, much relief may be obtained from powders composed of Bismuthi Trisnitras gr. 6 + Pulv. Ipecac, gr. j + Morph. Muriat. gr. I, Ms vel ter die. These act admirably in allaying the irritability of the intestinal canal, but cause very urgent thirst and great and most irritating parching of the nasal mucous membrane. Acetate of lead he thinks the best astringent, to be used, hke all remedies of this class, only in the later periods of the disease. In flatulent distension of the abdomen, Spiritus Terebinth. Hl^xv—XX + 01. Ricini 5j + -Aq. M. Pip., was found useful. But little fluid should be taken, especially cold. During the whole course of the treatment the diet should be very restricted. A patient recently attacked should never be placed next to one who is recovering. Palm.— Case of Verminous Disease ending fatally.—"Wurtemb. Corr. Bl., 33, 25, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 38. A healthy child, 23 months old, was taken ill in consequence of a chill, with moderate fever and loss of appetite. Calomel and santonine were given in small doses, under the use of which numerous round worms {Ascaris lumhricoides) were brought away by vomiting and by stool. The total number so got rid of was 58. On the loth day the belly became distended, hard, and tender ; on the 12th day convulsions set in, and death ensued some hours later. At the autopsy the small intestine was found of a blackish-red colour for an extent of about 4 inches, with a notable amount of vascular injection in the Aaciuity. A large number (38) of whitish, round worms, were projecting through the intestinal wall at this part into the peritoneal ca^'ity. Five of these and i older worm had already completely penetrated into the sac, and were undergoing puti-efaction. The peritoneum in the vicinity was but little inflamed, and presented only traces of dirty grayish exudation. When the intestine was opened it was seen that the posterior third of the worm was still contained in the cavity of the bowel, and that they had perforated the intestinal wall in an oblique and not in a transverse direction, so that the middle third of their bodies was completely covered by the intestinal membranes, and it was not easy to draw them out. After they were removed the intestinal wall had the ap- pearance of a sieve; the canals made by the worms commenced with