186 UEPORT ON PEAOTICAL MKDICINE. slciu does not appear in any degree altered as regards texture, softness, thifikncss, growth of hair ; no parasitic growth can be detected in the altered part, SUBJECTS OF GENEEAL INTEHEST. Mackintosh, D., M.D.—Notes on three persona struck hy Lightning Lancet, July 30. E. W— ffit. 10, was unable to walk for about 20 minutes, but was morbidly affected in no other way, with the exception of sliglit scorch- ing of the surface. J. W—, a?t. i i,lay prostrate and unconscious, with an expression of grim terror and suffering ; frothed at the mouth and moaned piteously, flung his arms and legs about in all directions, and the bystanders expected every moment to be his last. The respiration was deep, slow, and laborious ; beart palpitating, pulse weak and very irregular, pupils dilated and insensible. The scorching was more severe in this case than in the preceding, the red streaks being arranged on the sternum and tubera ischii in a stellate manner. He was unconscious for 5 hours, but rapidly recovered. T. W—, aet. 46, was struck dead on the spot. The expression of his countenance was remarkably placid ; the pupils widely dilated. The electric fluid entered at the junction of the occipital with the parietal bones, inflicting a large lacerated wound on the scalp, but not fracturing the bones of the skull. It then seem- ingly divided into two currents, which passed respectively do-«Tiwards between the soft parts and the cranium on either side of the head. That on the left side passed downwards anteriorly to the left ear and termi- nated on the side of the neck, rupturing blood-vessels and soft parts, which gave rise to swelling and extravasation of blood, that closely resembled, and might have been easily mistaken for, an extensive bruise produced by mechanical violence. The right side current passed directly downwards to the supra-clavicular region, leaving the ear and soft parts on its way livid and swollen, and terminated in that region in a dark- blue mangled-looking patch of skin, in which there were several free communications with the surface. The hair at the back of the head and that on the front of the chest was singed, but not that which covered the wound at the vertex. Chaplin, T., M.D.—The Fevers of Jerusalem. Lancet, August 37, September 3, 10. Jerusalem is one of the foost unhealthy of cities, and fever is its prin- cipal disease. Orientals and Europeans, immigrants and natives, alike Buff'er; and during the sickly period of the year almost one fourth of the population become ill. Yet Jerusalem is situated more than 2000 feet above the level of the sea, in a country not naturally insalu- brious, on the summits and sides of lofty hills; it is surrounded for three fourths of its extent by deep and precipitous valleys, which afford admirable facilities for drainage, and has not a marsh within fil'teen miles. The circumstances whicli tend to make the city unhealthy are the amount of rubbish upon which it is built, the neglect of sanitary regulations, the poverty and the filthy habits of the people, and the con-