59 GENEUAL SYSTEM. were remarkably healthy, and lived to a good old age, and theu- parents before tliem; that the patient never had a day's illness until his present attack, but that he himself had been very intemperate. Here farther inquiry leads to the discovery that the parent or parents had a flond complexion and also other signs that show the arthritic diathesis, although they had not had actual rheumatism. Here the diathesis is transmitted, the tendency to degeneration of the vascular or fibrous tissues is aggra- vated by the excessive use of alcohol, and the actual acute rheumatism is brought to life by the accidental occurrence of sleeping in a damp bed, or other such cause. Sutton remarked that Dr. Laycock had especially called attention to such principles as the above. Regard.—On tJie treatment of Tendinous Bheumatism ly the external employment of Sulpliur. L'Union Medicale, April 21st, 186,3. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. Eenard, who was himself the patient, suffered from this complaint after an attack of acute rheumatism, for which he was copiously bled. The parts affected were the tendons of the hamstring muscles, and no improvement resulted after a long course of diaphoretics, camphor, tere- binthinate, and other liniments, and the administration of the solanaceae. After dusting the inside of his stockings with common sulphur, he was speedily relieved. Under the influence of the contact of the flowers of brimstone the skin became hotter, slightly excited, and more disposed to sweating ; and as soon as this effect was produced, the relief of the pain seemed to be immediately marked. Fuller, H. W., M.D.—Clinical lecture on Sciatica. Lancet, April 16. Fuller illustrates by cases the different character of sciatica according as it is of rheumatic or neuralgic origin. Alkalies, pot. iod., and guaiacum, are efficient in the .former, quinine, iron, and aconite in the latter. He relates one case in which gr. xv of Dover's powder 0. n., with guaiacum and sulphur his die, produced no good effect, but which was immediately cured by the subcutaneous injection of morphia gr. ^. Such a result is exceptional, the injection requiring to be repeated twice or thrice in nnost instances. Fuller remarks that in this as in other instances tlie successful issue of the treatment depends upon its adaptation to the exigencies of the case. In sciatica, referable to local mischief, or to gout, rheumatism, or other distempered conditions of the blood, the use of morphia or other sedatives can only be palliative not curative. The cause of irritation must be got rid of by appropriate remedies before se- datives can prove effectual. But when the disease consists essentially of irritation of the nerve, and is independent of local disease and of general systemic derangement, the result of the administration of sedatives is most satisfactory. On the other hand blisters, issues, and other local irritants and derivatives which are often employed in these cases under the mistaken idea of the pain being referable to local inflammation, are useless, nay, positively mischievous. Nicholson, E. (Madras Quart. .Tourn., July, 1863), states that in intermittent fever there is a great increase in the water, the urea, and the chloride of sodium of the urine. Daring the cold and hot stao-es the