331 RADICAL CURE Of HERNIA. INTESTINAL OBSTBITCTION'. JD. Greig on insufflation as a remedy in intmsitsception (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' X, 306). The author records four examples of the successful use of'this means in children. D. Greig says:—"To my mind the symptoms of an intussusception are unmistakable, and may shortly be said to be, the sudden seizure, the obstinate vomiting, the obstinate constipation, the paroxysms of pain, the hard tumour in the abdomen, and chiefy the passage of blood per anum ; all these various symptoms may show themselves in other diseases, but when combined together, and especially when the last-mentioned symptom, the passing of blood per anum is present, I think no one can have any difficulty in forming a correct diagnosis, and must feel convinced that an intussusception is present, without the necessity of a post-mortem examination." "As to treatment, purgatives in the first place naturally suggest themselves; but these are worse than useless, rarely remaining on the^ stomach, and if they do remain only stimulating the bowel and aggravating the disease. AYarm-water euemata are useful, but can seldom be administered owing to the very peculiar irritable spasmodic condition in which the rectum usually is. In any case where this spasmodic condition is not present, or only to a slight degree, I have no doubt warm-water enemata, or, as I used in Case 3, warm water and air thrown in by a syringe would be useful. The ease, however, with which air is thrown into the spasmodically contracted rectum, when it is impossible even to introduce a teaspoonfiil of warm water, gives this agent a pre-eminence over all others, and astonishes all who have seen it used. The remedy is always at hand, even in the poorest cottage, no matter how far away from town. Its application is so simple as to require no direction for its use. The only necessity being that enough air be thrown into the bowel to distend it as far up as the neck of the invaginated portion, or, in other words, that the operation be continued imtil the child begins to be uneasy, and the belly distinctly tympanitic." W. H. Morgan, case of ileus treated successfully by insufflation ('Madras Quart. Journ. of Med. Science'). Dr. Hermann, invagina- tion of the ileum (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 36). S. Wells, intussusception replaced by gastrotomy, death (' Trans. Path. Soc.,' xiv, 170). M. Fourrier, artificial anus (' Graz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 599). Mr. Hamilton, abdominal incision, death ('Med. Tim. and Graz.,' 1864, i, 88). Prof Laycoclc, paracentesis caaci, death (1. c, p. 421). Dr. Bierbaum ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 42, &c.). J. C. Lehmann, case, &c. ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,'vol. 120, pp. 2>33, 3:^1)- P.Mosler ('Arch, der Ileilk.,' 1864, p. III). J. Adams on a case treated by Amussat'a operation ('Med. Tim. and Graz.,' 1864, i, 614). M. Miiller, case of enterotomy ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 222). Gr. H. Philipson on in- tussusceptiou ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 357). HERNIA. Q, II. Porter on the radical cure of rednciUe hernia (' Dubl. Quart.