20 EEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. the elements which remain give nearly the formula of fat, and if 4-5 per cent, of the carbon, with a proportionate amount of the oxygen, are excreted as CO2, a body with the composition of fat remains. No nitrogen, these new researches also prove, is absorbed from the air or given oft' into it. ('Ann. d. Chem. u. Pharm.,' Suppl., Band. 2, p. 361.) Formation of Fat from Casein.—As confirmatory of this latter view, Ch. Blondeau has given proof, which seems satisfactory, of the conversion of casein into fat in the case of Roquefort cheese. During 2 months in which it was kept in a cellar the proportion of casein diminished from 85-4 to 42-3 per cent., and that of the fiit increased from I'S to 32-3. The fat was submitted to every test; it consisted of i6-8 margarin and 1*5 olein. The change is accompanied by the growth of a penicillium, without which it does not take place. On analysing the growth its com- position in respect to carbon and nitrogen is such as to correspond with a complementary formation of margarin from the caseine, viz. C 61*5, N 22"6, H 7* 5. Or supposing that from the casein (C^g, II.^, N,,, Og) the penicillium takes all the N, and as much hydrogen as would sufiice to form ammonia, there remains the formula C^, H]g, 0^, which comes near to that of fat. ('Ann. de Chem. et Phvs.,' Feb., 1864, p. 208.) On the influence of Glauber's Salt on the Metamorphosis of Matter.— J. Seegnen starts from the position of Pettenkofer and Voit, that all the nitrogen consumed is excreted in the faeces and the urine; i. e. that if the animal remains of the same weight all the nitrogen which enters the circulation reappears in the urine. Hence, conversely, while the food remains the same an inference may be drawn from the amount of nitrogen in the urine respecting the metamorphosis in the organism, and the effect of any added substance securely determined. By feeding dogs on a uniform diet, and carefully determining the loss or gain of weight and the nitrogen contents of the urine and fsaces, Seegnen comes to the conclusion—(i) That Glauber's salt has scarcely any influence on the absorption of the food. (2) That during the use of Glauber's salt the decomposition of the nitrogenous elements of the tissues is essentially retarded, or the body becomes richer in nitrogenous substance. (3) That the waste of fiit is increased. The animal may either gain or lose in total weight. The dose employed was from 15 to 45 grains daily. Seegnen believes that the similar effect which he has obtained from the Karlsbad water is due to the Glauber's salt, which is its chief ingredient. (' Virchow's Archiv,' 29, p. 558.) Changes in the Composition of the Blood induced hi/ Inanition.—Dr. P. L. Panum, from experiments on dogs, concludes that no essential or considerable change occurs during inanition, either in the pro])ortion of the blood to the body generally or in the proportion of the fibrin and corpuscles to each other (in this opposing Bidder and Schmidt). The total quantity, however, diminishes. Even when water is allowed ad lihitum the normal proportions of the chief blood-constituents is main- tained. It thus appears that the materials destined for the nutrition of the tissue, as well as ox3'gen and the resulting carbonic acid and urea, only transiently form constituents of the blood. Accordingly, with de- ficient su))ply of food the formation of the tissues is soon arrested, for the mass of the solid constituents of the blood do not, to any extent at