IIKPORT ON niACTICAL MKUICINE. 184. an arrest, and even a woalcening of its active properties (e8])ecially of its iuoeuhibility, according to the experience of the Medical Society of Eure and Loire), but soon regains its original malignity, destroying tlie neighbouring tissues and producing the usual disorders. In the eases where the reaction of the organism, in consequence of the excessive virulence of the poison, does not take place in the manner described, another variety of carbuucular disease arises, termed by Fournier malignant carbuncle, by Maunoury carbuncular fever, by Bourgeois gangrenous erysipelas. Tliis last variety appears in men only excep- tionally, but is the rule in animals ; the converse also is tiie case. Malignant (cdema (which the author lias not observed) appears to oc- cupy an intermediate position between these two chief varieties. (c) Prognosis.—This is very different, according as the pustule has been treated early and in a judicious manner or not. In the first case the patients all recovered quickly and without grave accidents; in the other 5 cases of,death occurred, and only 3 who had not been treated recovered after great danger and long suff'ering. It is more dangerous if the pustule is situated on the face than when it is on the arm or the hand, (n) Treatment.—The malignant pustule is to be destroyed immediately, under all circumstances, whatever be its form, its seat, or the stage of its development. The author found the actual cautery (ferruni candens) the best remedy, and always successful in his hands. It has the advan- tage, especially in the country, of being always at hand, it only destroys the parts which it touches, promotes the effusion of a large quantity of serum, and induces the necessary reaction in the adjacent parts better than any other means. If the epidermis is elevated b}'' i-ecently exuded serum and separates itself around the necrosed part the cauterization has not been sufficiently deep, and must be repeated. The next most efficacious means is caustic potash, others are much inferior. The after- treatment consists in cold compresses, the application of charpie wetted with decoction of oak bark or cinchona, and repeatedly touching with nitrate of silver to promote the healing process. The diet must be strengthening and exciting; poultices, leeches, and low diet are injurious. (e) Prophylaxis.—This consists, when sources of external contagion are present, in diminishing the number of cattle, improving the quality of their food, and allowing them, especially during the heat of summer, to be but little fatigued. The bodies of diseased animals must be buried in deep pits far from human habitations, and men themselves must ob- serve the greatest cleanliness, and wash every abrasion of tlie skin immediately with vinegar, &c. It was only by the use of these means that the inhabitants of La Beuate remained almost entirely exempt, and that the pest ultimately ceased among the cattle. It is less easy to afford protection against the internal or spontaneous origin of tlie disease, as its causes are more difhcult to avoid. Devers counsels to mitigate as much as possible the effect of bodily exertion in the heat and drought, by providing shady plantations, springs, and cisterns. CoLLis, M. H.— On the treatment of Anthrax by pressure. Dub. Journ. of Med. Sci., Feb., 1864. CoUis uses in most cases empl. sapouis c. oi)io, and applies it in all