BEVORT ON PIiySIOLOGY. 2 which take place externally to the cells, occur also within them. In the amceba-likc processes which the blood-corpuscles put forth a rhyth- mical change may often be observed from a varicose to a 'smooth outline, and vice vcrsd. In stagnant blood these changes may continue under favorable circumstances for an hour. Tlie cliangcs thus observed in the extravasatcd blood-cells of the frog are similar to those which Beale has obtained by warmth, and KoUiker by the addition of a dilute solution of urea, but the latter take place much more quickl3^ Prcyer ascribes the gradual disappearance of the corpuscle under the urea solution to the cllcct of the water. Crystals of urea, best applied by suffering a drop of the solution to evaporate and then placing the blood on the same spot, induced only rapid transformations and the throwing off of separated portions. In frogs engaged in the act of coitus and in breeding salamanders Preyer has also observed a "spontaneous" division of the blood-corpuscles. In this case the enclosing membrane becomes clearly visible by the separa- tion from it of the contents at the point of division. The protoplasma and nucleus alike assume the form of a figure of 8, and by degrees the two portions become quite distinct. Preyer, however, has never seen them entirely separated or sejiarable. Probably in the vessels of the animal they are borne apart in the course of the circulation. This multiplica- tion of the batrachian blood-corpuscles at certain periods differs from that first observed by Kemak in the blood of the embryos of mammals and birds, as well as reptiles, in this respect—in the mammalian embryo the nucleus appears first to divide, and carries with it the division of the rest of the cell; in the adult batrachian the protoplasma seems to undergo the first change, and the nucleus is involved with it. Osmosis of AlbtMnen.—A. Schmidt observes that albumen in its ordinary state is almost completely non-diffusible, and that previous to its entrance into the cells of the living organism it undergoes a change which renders it diffusible—akin to that which it suffers during digestion, in being eon- verted into the peptones. It becomes, in fact, glohulin—the fibrino- plastic substance of Schmidt—and as such undergoes exosmose freely in presence of the intercellular fluids which are rich in the fibrino-genic sub- stance. This was proved by the endosmometer, through which the serum of the blood rapidly produced coagulation in {e.g.) perieardialfluid. Schmidt, however, would not affirm that the exosmose of globulin is more free into fibrino-genic fluids than into water, although in the former case its coagu- lating power is much greater, because in the latter case the fibrino-plastic substance rapidly loses its power by exposure to the air. The fibrino-genic substance, on the other hand, does not undergo osmosis; an alkaline solution of it placed in an endosmometer in water does not difiuse into the latter, nor when thus placed in contact with globulin does any coagulation take place in the latter, as would happen if the fibrino-genic substance diffused. According to Graham's researches, globulin, on account of its diflusibi- lity, must be reckoned among the crystalline group, though it has not 3-et been, and probably never will be, isolated in a crystalline form. It crys- tallizes, however, 'in union with the colouring matter of the blood, as is shown by the fibrino-plastic power of hainiato-crystallin. Cause of the cliaiu/e of colour in the JSIood—To determine whether the