211 INJURIES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. successful ? By such reasoning I had determined as soon as opportunity presented, to risk a trial to save a limb, and this occurred." Sero-t. Haynie received, on June 6tli, a wound ol' tlie left knee-joint; the biiil struck the centre of the patella, and passed through, comminuting it; it then passed outward and backward, involving the articular surface of the outer troclianter of the femur, and tearing the capsular and lateral ligaments. "Ho was brought to the field hospital immediately, and soon after seen by several surgeons. I recommended that the track of the wound should be laid open and a free incision made into the joint, the limb firmly fixed in a good position, and cold irrigation applied. Tliis was done effectually as soon as swelling and redness appeared, and the fragments of patella removed at various intervals. No pus was allowed to accumulate or burrow. Cold or warm water dressings were used, as most comfortable to the sensations of the patient. Everything progressed most favorable, and when I left the post,* Sept. 14th, the wound was nearly closed, and the patient had some motion of the joint." Four other cases are related. The author adds " ten cases of wounds of the knee- joint were admitted (all except Sergt. Haynie) into Hospital No. ], from the several skirmishes of the advancing army. Of these three died with- out operation ; one died after amputation ; one died of secondary hsemorrhage from a branch of the popliteal artery; three were nearly recovered when I left the post, Sept. 15th, and two remained with fair chances of ultimate recovery."f Thus we have one half of the cases which will in all probability be saved with useful limbs and various amounts of motion in the joints. These cases were treated under the most favorable circumstances ; the physical condition of the men was most excellent, and soon after the reception of the injury, they were taken to well-appointed hospitals, sur- rounded with comfort, and with every luxury of diet at command, and skilful surgical attendance, S. W. Mitchell, G. B. Morehouse, and W. W. Keen, report on re- flex paralysis as a result of rjunshot xooxmids ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 259, &c.).—" The vai'ious effects produced upon the nervous system by gunshot wounds have received, it seems to us, far less attention and far less study than their interest and importance appear to call for. Among them are some which must clearly be classified with the results illustrated by the cases reported in this paper; but there are also others which are far more numerous, in fact very common, and which are signally exempli- fied on every battle-field. These have been more or less vaguely treated of as shock, commotion, stupor, &c. The larger part of those who receive * "Nov. 25th.—1 have since leai-ned that he went on furlough, the wound having entirely closed." t In a later paper (1. c, vol, 48, p. 362) the author states that both these cases iiltimatoly sank. He there says, " While I liave lost confidence in the possibility of saving gunshot wounds of the knee-joint, involving fractures of the condyles of the femur or head of the tibia, under the usual circumstances of bustle and confusion of tlie field, and repeated removals of wounded in ambulances to the rear, yet I still firmly believe that many cases can be saved." The conditions of success are that such cases should, immediately after injury, be placed in a hospital from which they would not be moved for sixty days, and that they should be provided with comforts and skilful surgical care. I