185 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. sta'^es of the disease, both when inflammation is commencing and when gangrene and suppuration have already occurred. He states it as a fact" that as soon as pressure is made the fibrinous exudation uuder tlie fascia ceases to extend, the pus is more easily evacuated externally, and the plugs of exudation are more readily forced out. Mautezik, J. L. and C. L.—New mode of treatment of Malic/nant Pustule. Arch, gener., March, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, P- ^73- The authors reject the caustics (Hydr. Bichl. and Pot. fusa) as uncertain and inefficacious ; the actual cautery they find, if used alone,' too tedious and painful, requiring as it does the application of 12 to 115 irons to the part, besides others to the adjacent. They recommend the extirpation of the pustule by the knife and the subsequent applica- tion of the hot iron to the surface of the wound. This proceeding is always successful if performed before phenomena indicating general infection of the system have set in, and even at a later period it is of some advantage. In cases where the pustule is situated over an artery there is much less danger of haemorrhage by operating in this way than in employing caustics. Hutchinson, J.—Leucoderma and its differential diagnosis from Iforbus Addisonii. Clin. Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 7. _ Hutchinson thinks that mistakes have been made from the circum- stances that the affection occurs almost solely in persons of very swarthy skins, in whom it has been supposed that the dark portions were the morbidly affected tracts, and not the white. The history of the patient will usually guide us; but if doubts should still remain, they may be removed by observing carefully the edges of the patches. If the edges of the brown tracts are convex then it is the brown which is spreading on the white ground; if, however, the reverse, then we may be sure that the skin was originally brown, and that the new and aggressive process is that of loss of pigment in patches. In either case the change begins at points. These enlarge into small round patches; the latter increase, still retaining a more or less accurately circular form. Two or more may join, and sometimes small islands of brown may be left on large areas of white, which may then look very like new patches, but the careful application of the rule referred to will clear up their true mode of production. Another point which may servo to distinguish true bronzing from leucoderma is that the white in the latter is too white. The change does not consist in a gradually produced paleness of the integument, but in the formation of abruptly margined patches, which are totally destitute of pigment, and present a degree of whiteness which is not normal even in the fairest skin. Lastly, in the true bronzing, consequent on disease of the supra-renal capsules, the coloration is always diifused, and never in well-defined patches. No special dyscrasia has been observed in con- nection with Jeucodcrma ; in 5 out of 8 cases no deviation from good health could be detected. The affection may occur at any age; the