ciuculatort: system. 123 On April i6th the patient was put under the influence of chloroform, and pressure by means of an ordinary horseshoe tourniquet was kept up for 2 hours. On removing the pressure nfl apparent effect had been produced. On April 19th the pressure was again used and main- tained, with but momentary intermissions, when the instrument be- came displaced, but even these were avoided during the last hour, aa the instrument was carefully held in its place, and the patient kept under the influence of chloroform very fullj\ After about 5 hours the pressure waa removed, and now very little pulsation existed in the tumour. Beyond a little shivering and numbness, with coldness of the feet and legs, nothing of an untoward nature followed. In the even- ing a most careful examination failed to detect the slightest pulsation in the tumour, or in the aorta below it. On April 20th the patient was restless and sore, legs feeling numb, with a sensation of pins and needles in the feet. After this date he rapidly improved, became free from pain, and was able to walk. The tumour became quite solid, diminished in size, and all expansion, thrill, and bruit, ceased. By May 5t]i the patient was able to walk a considerable distance, without other discomfort than slight weakness and numbness in the legs. TVatebs, A. T. H., M.D. — On Thoracic Aneurisms and Thoracic Tumours. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Oct. After relating eight cases, Waters remarks, with resjiect to diagnosis, that in all cases of aneurysm of the arch the least equivocal sign is dulness opposite the upper part of the sternum. It is there that the tumour first begins to push aside the lungs, and to come in contact with the thoracic wall, and it is usually from this spot that the dulness extends to the right or left side. According to Waters' experience, in the majority of cases no bruit is audible. The objects of treatment he thinks are, ist, to promote the formation of fibrinous deposits in the aueurismal sac; and 2nd, to improve the nutrition of the arterial coats. [ Wedl.—Contributions to the Pathology of Blood-vessels. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 28. (i) Elongation and dilatation of the small blood-vessels is produced by an increase of the tension to which they are subjugated, and causes them to take a serpentine course. Such changes are very well observed in atrophying dental pulps. In these the veins are usually 3 to 4 times wider than usual, and retain this diameter often in their whole length. The cellular elements of the vascular wall shrivel up, so that it presents a more iiomogeneous appearance. Fusiform and pouch-like dilatations like those which occur in the cerebral are often met within such vessels. In glaucomatous eyes the vessels of the choroid and retina are affected in the same way, in consequence of the increased intraocular pressure. (2) Colloid deposits, or corpora amylacea, are found on the walls of small arteries, capillaries, and veins, and always on their outer side. For the most part they project free from the surface, but sometimes they are surrounded with a capsule. They are more frequent on the small : arteries than on the veins. They are not uncommon on the blood- ' vessels of diseased retinro, but Wedl warns us that, unless fresh speci-