39 SJiNEUAL SYSTEM. any rate, Eadcliffe says lio has met witli several persons who after trying the system for awhile with no disadvantage, have thus got out of con- dition in an unmistakable manner, some of them becoming very gout^^, and all of them experiencing a decided failure in strength and spirits. Eadclifte tliinks that the procedure in question while it nourishes the muscles may starve the nerves, and thus induce a corresponding want of nervous energy. Eadcliffe believes that the farinaceous, sac- charine, and oily articles of food are, in proper proportion, not to be dis- pensed with without risk, inasmuch as they are the most suitable fuel for Jceeping up the heat of the human body at the proper point. He is of opinion that certain persons may incline to the type of vegetable feeders rather than to the type of animal feeders ; and that these persons may find the nitrogenized part of their food better in the albumen, fibriue, and caseine of vegetables, than in tliose of animals. DoTTS', J. L. H., M.D.—On Folysarcia and its treatment. Clin. Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 97. Down reports the following case:—E. C—, imbecile, admitted Nov., 1858, fet. 21, 4 ft. 4 in. high, weight 196 lbs., enormously stout, had been delicate and thin up to set. 7. In Jan., 1862, she weighed 210 lbs., suffered from dyspnosa, and was almost always asleep, and her habits were very dirty. At this date she continued a mixed diet, restricted in amount, and took Pot. lod. gr. iiss ter die for six mouths. No dimi- nution of bulk ensued, but there was no increase, though this had been going on continuously for the previous 12 years. The diet remaining the same, she took Liq. Potassse ii\x—xxx ter die over a period of 7 months. Under this treatment her health became deteriorated, anaemia appeared, and her weight remained about 210 lbs., sometimes a few pounds more, sometimes as many less. On leaving off the alkali she weighed 206 lbs., and then took Extr. Puci Vesiculosi 30 grains ter die for ID weeks, when she weighed 203 lbs. Her general health improved; the drug caused diuresis. She was now placed on a purely meat diet, without medicine, which was continued from April 30th to Aug. 29th, when she weighed 175 lbs. On the same diet, but taking Extr. Puci Vesiculosi, the loss of weight was somewhat more rapid. Subsequently, on the same diet being continued up to April 7th, 1864, her weight decreased to 133 lbs.; no dyspepsia or other injurious effects resulted, but on the contrary, she was able to run and" wallc, and made a good convalescence from an attaclc of scarlet fever. .T. HuTCHiNSOU-.—CZmc«Z report of five cases- of true Leprosy. Clinical Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 19. Hutchinson sums up his remarks on these cases with tlie following observations:—That leprosy is far too specific and peculiar in its symp- toms to allow of our supposing it due to the influence of general poverty; that the cases in which Europeans are attacked all indicate the power of endemic influences; that of these food is the one which has most of probability as to its being the true cause; and lastly as the disease is only met with near the sea, we may plausibly guess that it is in some way connected with a fish diet. •I