EXCISION 01'' THE LOWER JAW. 301 sarcoma. After au iucisiou liad been carried aloug the lower edge of tlie jaw as far as its angle, the outer incisor tootli was extracted, the jaw was sawn through, and the soft parts were separated both from the inner and outer side of the bone. Then the portion of the jaw was pressed downwards, the temporal muscle was partially separated from the coronoid process, and the latter divided by the saw vertically into two almost equal parts. The jaw was now again divided at the root of the coronoid process, and the diseased part removed. On trying to partially fracture the portion of the coronoid process, it unfortu- nately broke off. Tliis accident appeared to be due to unnatural brittle- ness, for on the subject Langenbeck found the operation could be successfully performed. Dr. Ivauow on suffocation by the tongue, in resection of the lower jaw ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 255). Dr. Lehmannon preserva- tion of the teeth in resection of the alveolar process of the upper jaw ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 25). C. Volckers, case of osteoplastic re- section of the upper jaw ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' iv, 603). M. van Biervliet on osteoplastic resections of the upper jaw (' Bull. Beige,' 1863, pp. 582, 722). P. Q-rohe, melanotic cancer of the intermaxillary bone ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. 29, p. 209). S. W. Eearn, case of dentigenous cyst of the lower jaw, operation (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 241). EXE. T. Longmore, ' Manual of instructions for the guidance of army sur- geons, in testing the range and quality of vision of recruits, and in dis- tinguishing the causes of defective vision in soldiers,' (pp. 78, Loud.). A. Zander, ' The ophthalmoscope : its varieties and its uses,' transl. by li. B. Carter (pp. 225, Lend. E. Hardwicke). J. Jago, ' Entoptics, with its uses in physiology and medicine" (pp. 188, Lond., J. Churchill). A. Zander and A. Geissler, ' Injuries of the eye,' (Leipz., C. T. Winter). M. Clot-Bey, ' on ophthalmia, trichiasis, entropion, and cataract in Egypt,' (Paris, Masson). M. Warlomont on the free use of sulphate of copper in external ophthalmia; (' Ophth. Heview,' i, 186).—The author has found the eye remarkably tolerant of external irritants. One case of pannus re- covered excellently under the use of the pure tincture of cautharides applied two or three times daily. Warlomont has even used glycerine saturated with the sulphate of coppei", and also the latter finely powdered, in cases of granular ophthalmia. He found that such large doses were very beneficial, and that they did not cause greater pain or more violent re- action than smaller ones. He ordinarily employs one of the follow- ing forms V— No. 1, I part 1 » *i li » f of sulphate of copper to 8 xiarts of pure glycerine. )j 3^ 3 " J A few drops are applied by means of a brush twice or thrice daily • (i) in fleshy pannus resulting from luxuriant granulations: in such cases Warlomont applies from time to time a thick layer of