431 INORGANIC SUBSTANCKS. Mercury. Corrosive StiMimate.—Dr. Taylor relates ('Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 1864, p. 183) a case of poisoning by about 5 or to grains of this poison, in which death occurred in 7 "days. The patient felt a burning sen- sation in the throat immediately, and vomited freely. He soon suffered from pain at tbe pit of the stomach, and from tenesmus, with bloody stools. There was complete suppression of urine during the first two days, and also towards the end of the case. The mouth became sore on the second day, and this symptom was again complained of on the last two days of the patient's life, but salivation did not occur. He died at tlie end of 6 days. The post-mortem examination showed extensive lobular pneumonia ; the oesophagus was injected in longitudinal streaks, and contained shreds of lymph. The stomach was minutely injected, as were also part of the ileum and the ascending colon. This part of the intestine also presented some small scattered ulcei's. The caecum was but little affected. The rectum was of a dark-red colour, from extravasated blood. The kidneys were large and coarse in texture, but otherwise normal. The bladder was ecchymosed. Dr. Taylor remarks that the appearances found in the stomach resembled those of arsenic more than those of corrosive sublimate, but no arsenic was present. Mercury was obtained from the stomach, and also in very small quantity from the liver. Dr. Anderseck and Dr. Hamberger (' A^jhrschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. F. I, p. 187) record 2 cases of fatal poisoning by an ointment containing corrosive sublimate. Two young girls suffered from an eruption, sup- posed to be scabies, and went to a barber for relief. He applied an ointment with his own hands, rubbing it into those parts of the skin which were affected by the disease. This vi'as on the evening of April 15. A burning sensation was immediately experienced, and soon became intolerable. During tlie night vomiting came on, with great thirst. The next morning there was still violent burning and pricking over the whole surface of the skin, which was red and inflamed, and on the evening of the i6th presented at many points vesicles, such as show themselves in cases of scalding by hot fluids. These parts of the skin afterwards suppurated. On the 19th, the urine having been re- tained for some liours, a catheter was used ; from one of the patients scarcely any urine was drawn off, from the other a large quantity. This last patient was, on the next morning (the aoth), apparently going on well. She had slept for some hours, and her intellect was clear. She still complained of pains over the whole body, and of transient numbness of the hands and feet. A fetid smell of the mouth, which bad been noticed for 2 days, was now more marked, and ulcers existed on the gums and on the inner surface of the lips. Two hours after the visit of Dr. Hamberger she died unexpectedly. The result of the other case was equally disastrous. This girl's mouth presented the same appearances as did that of the former patient. Com- plete suppression of urine also came on, except that on the 20th she passed a very small quantity. Siic then fell into a somnolent state