24.3 SYPHILITIC FEVER. I 6. The time, when the fever ceases, depends on the degree of the local lesions, on the intestinal catarrh, and on the coryza. 7. The fever ceases at a late period when fresh eruptions take place, at each of which the temperature increases some tenths of a degree. 8. The fever is so slight in many cases, especially in robust and otherwise healthy persons, as not to be noticed by the patients them- selves ; it can, however, be detected by the thermometer. Among other interesting examples of constitutional syphilis under Prof. EUhle ('G-reifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii; Eeport, p. 63), we find the following:—A woman was admitted into the hospital with the diagnosis of "pulmonary phthisis in its last stage." She was emaciated to the utmost degree ; on the right side under the clavicle there was moderate dulness and bronchial respiration; on the left side in front the breathing was indistinct. On the back the percussion-sound was normal; on the right side, over a great extent, but gradually becoming less intense from above downwards, there was loud bronchial breathing, with clear but scanty rattling; on the upper part of the left side also the breathing was bronchial. The voice was entirely lost. The uvula and a considerable part of the soft palate were wanting; there were ulcerations both on the soft and hard palate. The epiglottis felt rough and irregular. There was great difficulty in breathing and in swal- lowing. Prom the state of the pharynx and larynx syphilis was diagnosed; although the patient was wasted to a skeleton, yet as the most im- mediate danger was from the laryngeal disease, inunction was com- menced, half a drachm of mercurial ointment being rubbed into the thigh morning and night. Easily digestible food, broth, milk, &c., were given, and mercurial stomatitis was prevented by diligent gargling with cold water and astringents. The ulcers in the pharynx were almost entirely healed after this treatment had been continued for six weeks; the difficulty of breathing, the cough, and the stridor had di- minished. The bronchial breathing at the back had also gradually : lessened, though the dulness at the apex still persisted. The patient 1 had become much stouter. Preparations of iodine were then admin- istered, and continued for a long period. At a later period laryngo- I scopic examination showed that the epiglottis was almost entirely destroyed, the true vocal cords were normal, the posterior wall between the arytenoid cartilages much swollen and mammillated, though pale in colour. At a later period she was repeatedly attacked by inflammation of the conjunctiva and cornea of the right eye, and by periosteal affections of the skull, nose, sternum, and tibite. The condition of the larynx, however, improved, the voice steadily becoming louder and purer. "When discharged, she was in excellent condition. H. Zeissl, 'Treatise on Constitutional Syphilis' (pp. 43a, Erlangen, P. Enke). A. Reumont, 'Contributions to the Pathology and Treatment of Constitutional Syphilis ' (Erlangen, E. Enke). Prof Zeissl on syphilitic aifections of the skin (' "Wien. Med. Halle,' ' 1864, pp. 41, 62). J. Hutchinson, rare forms of disease consequent on syphilis ('jSrit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 440; 1864, ii, 263). J. L. Bieden- . kamp, sketch of the different treatments employed at the University