UNUSUAL LOCALITY 01' PREGNANCY. 367 liquor amnii, and effecting the death and decomposition and expulsion of the fcetus. Two days after, she died, the sounds of the foetal heart continuing almost up to the last. Post-mortem.—Universal peritonitis. The fcetus lay in a pouch or sac formed by the enlarged uterus and broad ligaments, the pelvic walls, and the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The ovaries could not be traced. The foetus was about 6 months. The placenta, broad and thin, was attached to the posterior surface of the uterus and to the other parts forming the cyst. The uterus measured externally 7 inches in length and ^\ in breadth. Section of its wall measured i inch. The interior was covered all over, except at the fundus and cervix, with a thin layer of a dark, mottled, reddish, brain- like substance, which was readily scraped off. This consisted of areolar tissue, mingled with blood-vessels, amorphous matter, and oil-globules, Immediately beneath this lay the normal uterine tissue. 5. —A woman came under Dr. Day's care, at King's College Hospital, in her ninth pregnancy, with the history that an extra-uterine tumour had been discovered in her 6th labour, 4 years before, for which pre- mature labour was induced at the 8th month in her next pregnancy. On examination a hard, nodulated tumour, about the size of a goose's egg, was found in the recto-vaginal pouch, feeling like a detached fibrous growth from the uterus. Prom the size of the tumour it was thought advisable to bring on labour at 7-| months. An air-dilator was employed, and delivery completed in about 48 hours, by version. The placenta was universally adherent, and very friable. Post-partum haemorrhage occurred, and was soon checked, but it recurred 48 hours after delivery, and the patient sank under it. After death a foetus of 3—4 months was found in the recto-vaginal pouch, enclosed in a thin cyst, and attached to the peritoneum on the right side of the rectum. The Fallopian tube of the right side was attached to the base of the uterus, and contained an organized clot in its outer half The left tube was attached to the fundus. The points of interest in the case are—(i) The escape of the ovum from the Fallopian tube without causing death or giving rise to any marked symptoms. (2) The posi- tion of the Fallopian tubes. (3) The mode of inducing labour, which the author thinks should be performed gradually, by alternately dUating and relaxing the cervix. 6. —The special interest in Dr. Ott's case is the simultaneous existence of uterine and extra-uterine pregnancy. A woman, tet. 3 had borne one child 8 years before. Menstruation ceased 5 months. A tumour was then discovered in the right iliac region. Three months after, profuse haimorrhage and abortion took place, but the tumour continued. Eigors, with abdominal pain and vomiting, supervened, with hectic, emaciation' and deatli. After death 5 quarts of dark grumous matter were found in the abdomen, with an embryo of about 4 months lying loose in the fluid. The placenta was adherent in Douglas' sac, partly to the body of the uterus, partly to the right tube, which had burst near its middle.