UUPTURE OF THE UlTiRUS. 381 mature labour should be induced at once or as soon as the patient's condition -will admit of it. Secondly, that in order to effect this with- out hjemorrhage, an air-ball, covered with siwngio-piline, should be passed empty into the vagina, and then inflated so as effectually to fill the passage, while a bandage is placed firmly round the abdomen, and ergot and borax are to be administered in repeated doses. Dr. Greenhalgh concludes by strongly condemning the use of hsemostatic remedies, by which he is convinced many lives are lost. In the dis- cussion which followed, Dr. Barnes objected to the use of a vaginal plug. It acted by exciting uterine contractions if the uterus Avas excitable; but in the worst cases the uterus was paralysed, and in these the plug was useless. If, in combination with rupturing the membranes, the placenta Avas detached from the cervical zone, the cervix then artificially expanded by means of his cervical dilators, and the bimanual mode of version, as practised by Dr. Hicks, resorted to, a much greater measure of success would be obtained than by any other special method. ETJPTTJEE 01' THE UTEETIS. Dr. Crichton, " Case of Rupture of the Uterus in which Gas- trotomy was successfully performed" ('Edin. Med. Jour.,' Aug., 1864). The carefully compiled statistics of Dr. Trask, of New York, give great encouragement in undertaking the apparently hopeless operation of gastrotomy in cases of rupture of the uterus ; and yet since the date of their publication in 1856 the first successful case recorded as having occurred in this country is that of Dr. Crichton. The patient, fet. 28, had been delivered by the forceps in her first three labours, none of the children surviving, from the pressure on the head necessary to effect delivery. Yvom the great projection of the promontory of tlie sacrum induction of labour was advised in her 4th pregnancy between the 7tb and 8th month, but not carried out. After being in strong labour for some hours two unsuccessful attempts were made to deliver, first by the forceps, and afterwards by turning. A large opiate was then given, but shortly after, during a severe pain, the uterus ruptured. The position of the child could not be ascertained, but the unequal nodu- lated surface of the abdomen, the complete recession of the ])resentin"- part, the free discharge of blood from the vagina, and the total cessa° tion of labour-pains, which had previously been very severe and con- stant, left no doubt as to the rupture and the escape of the child into the abdominal cavity. Gastrotomy was proposed, but, from the non- consent of the patient, was delayed 14 hours. The operation was per- formed in the usual manner. The child was foiind lying with its head downwards, resting on the firmly contracted uterus, with the placenta loose under it. The rupture was transverse, about the junction of the fundus with the cervix. Several large clots were removed, and some bloody fluid sponged out. The wound was closed by twisted sutures on long acupressure needles passed througli the peritoneum, and warm- water dressing applied. Jaundice, with vomitiug and tympanitis