435 OUGANIC SUBSTANCES. of two different substances. One of these is very similar to a resinous body, which may be obtained artificially from the oil of cubebs by oxi- dation, and probably is derived from the partial conversion of the oil into resin within the fruit. The other is a resinous acid, to which the name cubebic acid is given. It is a white, uncrystallizable solid, with silky lustre, and becomes dark on exposure to the air. It has a waxy taste, and sticks between the teeth. It is insoluble in water and in dilute acids, but is readily dissolved by alkalies, as well as by alco- hol, ether, and chloroform. "When treated with concentrated sul- phuric acid it dissolves with a splendid purple-violet colour, and this and other reactions enable it to be distinguished from all other resinous acids. In order to determine the differences in the action of these sub- stances, experiments were made by Bernatzik on himself and on others. The cubebic acid combined with magnesia was twice taken in doses of lo grmm. The ethereal oil was given once in a dose of 40 drops every 3 hours till 6 grmm. had' been taken, and afterwards in larger quantity, BO that 10 grmm. "were taken in 3 doses within 6 hours. Lastly, 50 grmm. of the powdered cubebs were taken in several doses within 8 hours. It was found from these experiments that the cubebic acid produced effects very different from those of the volatile oil. The urine passed after taking the resinous acid deposited an abundant precipitate, which was found to consist entirely of uric acid. The addition of nitric acid rendered this urine opalescent; but the precipitate thus formed, like that which had occurred spontaneously, was merely uric acid, and con- tained no resinous substance. By extraction vrith alcohol and ether the presence of cubebic acid in the urine was, however, demonstrated. Its quantity amounted in one experiment to '234 grm., in the other to '143 grm. The whole amount of uric acid present was 3 or 4 times as much as that contained in healthy urine. The greater part of the cubebic acid ingested was probably oxidized within the blood, for in one experiment the faeces were carefully examined for it, and only •4 grm. was found. Bernatzik thinks that the oxidation of the resin prevented the normal change of uric acid to urea and carbonic acid, and in this way he explains the increased excretion of uric acid. After taking the volatile oil the ui-ine was found to remain clear, giving no deposit of uric acid. Its smeU was aromatic, resembling that of cubebs. On the addition of nitric acid it yielded a crystalline sediment of uric acid; but it remained turbid, and was not rendered clear even by filtration. Under the microscope it was found to contain innumerable minute granules, often aggregated together. These were at once dissolved by ether, and therefore evidently consisted of resin. By chemical analysis '890 grm. of resin was obtained from this urine. This substance possessed none of the properties of cubebic acid, while it had the pungent taste of the oil of cubebs, and was exactly similar to the resin obtained from the oil by artificial oxidation. The quantity of resin was also found to be in proportion to the amount of volatile oil ingested. Tor every 7 grmm. of the oil taken, about i grm. of resin made its appearance in the urine.