INOHGAXIC SUBSTANCES. 421 wood, are published in the ' Pharm. Jouru.' (j, p. 406 et seq.) ; and another course on the organic materia medica, by Prof. Bentley, is given in the same periodical (p. 416 ef scq.). The ' Lancet' also con- tains a series of " Critical and explanatory comments on the new Piiar- macopceia," commencing in vol. i, 1864, p. 78. TJfOKGANIC SUBSTANCES. Carbonic Oxide Gas. Dr Marten publishes, in ' Casper's Vjhrschrft.' (25, p. 197) several eases in which severe symptoms arose, apparently from the inhalation of this gas. The first was that of a man, ffit. 61, who, after writing for some hours in his bureau in a smelting-house, was attacked with sudden pain in tlie head, giddiness and trembling, so that he fell to the ground soon after leaving his office. His pupils were dilated and in- sensible. He vomited, his breathing was stertorous, and he was quite unconscious. He did not recover his consciousness till the 3rd day. His memory was then much impaired; not only did he remember nothing of his attack, but he could not answer questions correctly for 2 days, and he was not able to resume his occupation for a month. Both Dr. Marten, who was summoned when this man was first attacked, and several other persons, suffered from slighter symptoms of the same nature, including, in several instances, clonic spasms of the extremities. These persons recovered their senses in from a quarter to half an hour, and on the following day were pretty well, complaining only of weak- ness and of headache, or of a confused feeling in the head. The cause of these attacks remained for a time obscure, but 4 days afterwards the fire of the forge suddenly fell 2 feet. In order to ascer- tain the cause of this a deep trench was dug, and it was then found that under the hard floor there was a layer of slag 5 feet in thickness, which had become red hot. The gases which were generated by the combustion were prevented from escaping by the compactness of the floor. A channel, however, which was filled with loose cinders, led from the furnace towards th& bureau. Along this the gases probably passed, and, accumulating beneath the floor of the bureau, passed between the planks into the room. The quantity of gas must have been considerable, for several of the windows of the bureau were broken, and one had an aperture of 2 square feet in it. The gas probably consisted chiefly of carbonic oxide. This gas was found to be present in the pro- portion of '0695 in 1000 in air taken from the bureau 4 days later, after all apertures into the room had been closed for some time. It is worth mentioning that blood taken from the arm of the man whose symptoms were most severe presented the ordinary appearance of venous blood, as Bernard has stated that in poisoning by carbonic oxide the blood ia reddened. Dr. Marten has visited Dortmund, where metallic zinc is obtained from blende. The woricmen there frequently suffer from the action of carbonic oxide gas. The symptoms caused by it are pain in the head, giddiness, depression, swoons (which last a shorter or longer time, and arc followed by vomiting), trembling, and so great weakness that the men are obliged to leave oft' work.