197 MOKTALITY AFTEE OPERATIONS. desfci'oyiiig the substances which surround them. At the same time the germs of infusoria which the air has deposited upon the external surface of the body are developed, and work from the surface inwards. At length the infusoria and Vibrios meet. The Vibrios are killed by the contact of the air, the infusoria die in their turn as soon as they have consumed all the Vibrios, and the work of destruction is then complete. " I have given this rapid sketch of some of the principal results of the researches of Pasteur, in order that the influence of atmospheric germs upon our bodies in health and disease may be comprehended. Although the air contains the germs which are necessary for the processes of fer- mentation and putrefaction, these germs cannot be everywhere present in all forms and equal numbers. In some currents of air there are few, in others many ; they are numerous in the lower strata, fewer and fewer as we rise higher and higher, and almost absent at the level of the snow- capped Alps. Air taken on the slopes of Mont Blanc was almost free from germs. On the chain of the Jura they were more numerous, and they increased in quantity as one descended into the valleys and approached inhabited places, becoming most abundant in the air of large cities, where an enormous quantity of organic matter is daily decomposed. Their influence upon the development and propagation of epidemic and con- tagious diseases has yet to be made out; but something has been done. Many years ago, Dr. Angus Smith led the way by his examination of the air of large cities and of crowded rooms, which other observers have carried on further. M. Chalvet found in the air of the wards of St. Louis a large quantity of starch-corpuscles ; and he collected a great deal of putrescible organic matter from the walls, windows, and bed-curtains, and found that the linen returned from the laundry was still tainted by altered blood, pus, linseed-meal, and other organic substances—probably as capable of infect- ing as threads charged with vaccine lymph. When watery vapour near a suppurating focus was condensed, it was found to be strongly charged with irregular corpuscles resembling dried pus; and Eiselt, of Prague, found small cells, like pus-eeUs, in the air of a ward where epidemic ophthalmia was raging. " When commenting on the spread of puerperal fever, M. Trousseau says:—' These germs may not be developed as readily in all patients, because the conditions of their reception vary infinitely. Some patients, like certain earths, may not receive certain germs. The wind may spread the same seed widely over a country, and yet the grain will not spring up everywhere alike. Here the soil may be too wet; there too dry; here other germs have grown up, and stifled the new seed. Just so is it with morbid germs and ferments. They, individually, require conditions fa- vorable to their development.' " Carrying on the analogy between puerperal fever and purulent infection in the various forms which contribute so large a share to the excessive mortality after surgical operations, and applying the knowledge, for which we are indebted to Pasteur, of the presence in the atmosphere of organic germs which will grow, develope, and multiply, under favorable conditions, it is easy to understand that some germs find their most appropriate nutriment in the secretions from wounds, or in pus, and that they so modify it as to convert it into a poison when absorbed—or that the germs.