UKPOUT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 176 appear to occur in the mauufacturers of white lead, and the steps of the process which are most injurious Heem to be the unpacking of the 8tack8 of jars in wliich tlie metallic lead has been converted into tiie carbonate, the transport of the dried article into the casks, and especially the pack- ing in the casks, as this diffiises a quantity of the powder in the air. Br. "Whitley believes that the inhalation of the poison in tlic pulverulent form is far more injurious than its action on the skin. Colic seems to be not infrequent in these workmen, and gout, or rather rheumatic gout, is stated to be common; paralysis occurs but seldom. These effects have diminished of late years, and this is attributed partly to improved processes of manufacture, partly to sanitary precautions. The manui'acture of red lead is stated to be much less injurious than that of white lead. Makers of sugar of lead are believed to suffer much from the poisonous action of the metal. Lead smelting is in- nocuous as it is now carried on. Of the trades in which salts of lead are used the following appear to be the most important:—Among potters, the "dippers" have their hands and forearms immersed for 8 hours a day in a thick fluid con- taining i or part of white lead, and they continue this employment for several years. Dr. "Whitley examined several of these men, but only two admitted that they had suffered, and that but slightly. Several of them presented a blue line on the gums. Among painters lead-poisoning appears to be less frequent than is generally supposed; the improvement of late years is attributed to the adoption of an entire outer suit of clothing, which is frequently washed, and is worn only in working hours. Among plumbers disease has been much diminished by the substitution of machinery for hand labour, and by increased cleanliness. Compositors are believed to be no longer liable to lead- poisoning now that the type is distributed dry. A few cases occur among type-founders, especially in the "rubbers." Shot-makers, floor- cloth manufacturers, and glass-makers, appear to be quite uninjured by the lead which they employ; and no cases of poisoning were heard of among the enamellers of cards or of dial-plates. Workers in mercury.—Dr. Whitley reports (6th Rep., &c.; Appx., p. 350) on the subject of mercurial poisoning in artisans. Water-gilding is well-known to be the most injurious of the occupations in which mercury is iised. It has been to a great extent superceded by electro- plating, but not entirely. It is stated that, with few exceptions, all the workmen suffer, sooner or later, from mercurial poisoning. Men are seldom engaged in this work more than 2 or 3 days a week. However, it is probable that this process is carried on in private houses as well as in large establishments, and that its effects there are still more serious. This is the case also with those engaged in silvering mirrors, an occupation whicli gives employment to a much larger number of persons, but is far less injurious than water-gilding. Young men generally suffer slightly from salivation or from ulcers in the mouth in the first month during which they work at silvering; but temperance and cleanliness, and improved ventilation, are stated to have diminished the number of cases of poisoning. Among barometer-makers mer- curial poisoning appears to be rare.