816 REPOllT ON SURGERY. in the iutorior of the bone without tlie existence of any suflicient apei-ture for its discharge,—the great, very painful, dark-red swelling of the soft parts with expansion of the bone itself, and otorrliffia ; if the swelling is more prominent over the mastoid process, the cells of the latter will be chiefly afl'ectcd ; if it is principally seated over the depression which generally marks the attachment of the mastoid process, it is more espe- cially the spongy tissue of the petrous portion that is diseased. The condition of the external meatus and of the tympanic membrane may aid the diagnosis. Perforation of the antero-inferior part of the mastoid process opens its cells; to penetrate the petrous bone, we must pierce the upper attachment of the mastoid process at the point, which, as already mentioned, is usually depressed, to the depth of 6 or 9 lines. The author used for this purpose a brace with a sharp-angled bit of to 3 lines' diameter. The direction in which the instrument should pass is clear; the mastoid cells are opened by boring behind the ear from before a little backwards, the drill being placed just below the middle of the anterior surface of the process. The spongy tissue of the petrous bone is to the outer and upper side of the tympanic cavity, close to the end of the external meatus ; the perforator must therefore be placed on the root of the mastoid process, and introduced in the proper direction from 6 to 9 lines deep. Any neces- sary enlargement of the aperture at the bottom of the wound may be easily effected by a strong director, the bony septa being very friable. We shall add the author's second case as an example :—F. Braselmann, ffit. 36, a workman, was examined on the loth June, 1S63. Accoi'ding to his account, his illness had commenced in the previous December with violent pains in the teeth and face on the right side; the last upper molar, although healthy, was pulled out without relief; towards Christ- mas he suffered from pain and noises in the ear, then from a discharge and increasing deafness; five weeks ago the right side of the face became paralysed. Present state :—Pale, sallow appearance, great emaciation and weariness, mind slothful, entire loss of sleep for weeks; no fever, no diarrhoea, lungs healthy. Violent headache over the whole right side, especially along the posterior auricular nerve, increased by the least motion ; the head is constantly inclined half-way towards the right side. Complete paralysis of the right half of the face, all play of the features arrested, the sensi- bility distinctly diminished. The right eye cannot be closed, and is during rest much more widely opened than the other; the obliquity of the mouth is not very noticeable when the features are at rest. The inner part of the lower lid is at a considerable distance from the eye; free lachrymation, great conjunctival congestion, slight desquamation of the epithelium from the lower part of the cornea. The vision and mobility of the eye are normal; the uvula is straight. The ear on the affected side is swollen, red, and hot; there is an abundant, fetid discharge from it. The external meatus is swollen up ; the membrana tympaui cannot be seen. The mastoid process is very prominent; whilst on the left side there is a deep sulcus just above the process, on the rigiit side there is a prominence at least as broad as the finger; the soft parts are reddened, swollen, and painful on pressure; deep pressure on the bone causes m- tense pain. Total deafness; no subjective aural sensations.