206 llEl'ORT ON SUHGEBY. deposited along the margins of the apertura pyriformis. It may be divided into three portions :— 1. A vertical incision from the nasal process of the os frontis along tbe middle line divides the skin covering the cicatricial stump into two halves, each of which is dissected up towards the cheek. Any remains of the ossa nasi or of the nasal processes, and the portions of newly formed bone arc now exposed, 2. A piece of bone, —%"' broad, is partially separated from each side of the apertura pyriformis by means of a fine saw. The length of this piece must depend on the skin which it will have to support. The bone is then carefully raised by an elevator, leaving it attached to the upper jaw near the lower margin of the apertura pyriformis. Thus a bony framework is prepared, to which the skin dissected off in the first part of the operation is attached by thread. Any remains of the nasal bones, which may have sunk towards the nasal cavity, are separated on either side by the saw, the incision passing from the nasal processes perpendicu- larly towards the frontal bone, and the elevator is again used to raise them to a sufficient height. The suture between the ossa nasi and os frontis forms a hinge on which the former may be moved. 3. Transplantation of a frontal flap, including, if necessary, a piece of pericranium. This operation presents the advantage that a nose quite of normal prominence is produced with very little expenditure of material. For whilst rhinoplasty by means of the frontal skin alone requires a flap at least 3" broad, the latter measured in Langenbeck's case only an inch. Four months later no change had taken place in the prominence of the nose. Langenbeck has no doubt, that this method may be employed with advantage in raising sunken noses. P. Bert on animal grafting ('Arch. Gen. de Mdd.,' 1864, i, 207). J. Hamilton on the restoration of a lost nose (pp. 58, Dublin, Fannin and Co.). WOUNDS. A. J. Jobert on reunion in surgery (pp. 700, Paris, J. B. Baillicre). A. Pribram has pubhshed ('Prag. Med. Wocheuschr.,' 1864, p. 23) three cases from Professor Blazina's clinic, in which men had been bitten by men ; twice a finger, once a thumb, was the part aflected. One case alone ended fatally. All three presented the same peculiarities in their course:— 1. In all, after an apparently trifling injury, there occurred morti- fication of the whole finger or thumb. 2. The gangrenous part separated at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint during the fourth week. 3. The rest of the extremity suflPered only in so far that the morbid pro- cess extended along the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in the form of ichorous phlegmon, in one case to the wrist, in the other two along the back of the hand and of the forearm as far as the elbow; the disease did not spread beneath the aponeuroses, and in the latter two cases the skin became gan- grenous at a relatively late period.