HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 221 Mr. Pick does not think its use advisable. Carholio acid was applied locally iu several cases, all general treatment being avoided. In no one instance was there sufficient evidence to justify the assumption that it arrested the disease. " The transfusion of a stream of cUorine (jas through the ward was tried in one or two instances, though not sufficiently often to establish any definite result. On August 6th there were three cases of phagedfena in the Fitzwilliam "Ward of this liospital. They were of different duration, and were all spreading, though in one there was some slight tendency to arrest. A gentle stream of chlorine gas was passed through the ward for eighteen hours, at the end of which time the phagedasna was arrested in all three cases. A man, having undergone amputation, was placed in a separate apartment. Two days after, he was attacked with phagedtena, which rapidly extended. A stream of chlorine was passed through the ward, and in forty-eight hours the disease was arrested. Though these facts are satisfactory, they are not conclusive, and are far too meagre to arrive at any just conclusions. Whether this remedy has any control over the disease or not, there is no doubt that it must act beneficially^ if in no other way, at least in destroying the disgusting effluvia, which it does in a pre-eminent degree." " There is no doubt that opium is our sheet-anchor. After watching the wonderful effects of this drug—not in one or two cases, but iu dozens, and after every other conceivable remedy had been tried, and failed—I am confident that, if there is such a thing as a specific, opium is a specific for phagedajna, if properly administered, and in sufficient quantities. I have never seen it fail. The most obstinate case was that of "William "W"—, whose history is given above. He took laudanum in gradually increasing quantities for fifteen days, till at last he was taking nearly half an ounce in the twenty-four hours. This, however, subdued the disease. But this must not be regarded as a typical case. Instances have been seen in which a' rapidly spreading sore has pre- sented a perfectly clean and healthy surface under twenty-four hours' treatment by opium ; and two or three days may generally be considered as ample time to stop the most rapidly spreading sore. ^'■Chlorate of potash.—This remedy, from its known properties in checking unhealthy and gangrenous ulcerations, was largely tried in phagedsena, and with some amount of success; for, though it did not appear to arrest the disease—at all events, not \sdth the same certainty as opium—still it appeared to act beneficially in the cleaning of sores and the separation of sloughs ; and, from a knowledge of its properties, it was supposed that it might act as a prophylactic, and prevent a recurrence of the disease, and was accordingly prescribed largely. " Ammonia possesses no power over the disease, but was often a necessary addition, on account of the very rapid prostration and tlie great deficiency of nervous power which is often observable in these cases. " Dr. Polli, of Milan, has lately introduced a class of medicines before the profession as having the power of-arresting the putrefactive fer- mentation, viz., sulphurous acid, in combination with potass, soda, and lime. These remedies were tried in phagedajna, and the drug did not