REPOllT ON SUUGEBY. 270 presented to us. Bemoval is at all times difficult, and may prove im- possible. These tiimour.s, as far as I liave seen, always dip beneath tlie deep cervical fascia, and it is utterly impossible to know to what extent they reach, or wliat structures they may overlap or inclose. The carotid sheath or the oesophagus may be so surrounded by the growth as to render the removal of the latter impossible. This was so in Mr. Arnott's case, quoted by Mr. Hawkins, and it would, I dare say, have been found to be so in my first case had I been driven to attempt the removal of the tumour. Of course, the relations of a tumour in the anterior tri- angle are far more formidable than in the posterior, though even the latter are suificieutly embarrassing in many cases. Still I have given an instance of the removal of such a tumour with apparent success ; and even in Mr. Arnott's case, though the operation could not be completed by the total removal of the deep part of the tumour, the patient is said to have ultimately ' done well.' These are encouragements to proceed somewhat boldly in cases where the tumour is growing rapidly, and where, therefore, we have reason to think that life will not be protracted very long; but the limit between justifiable boldness and fool-hardiness must be fixed by each surgeon for himself. Pressure on the jugular vein, interference with deglutition, projection into the mouth, would in most cases contra-indicate the attempt at removal, as would enormous extent of disease. " If so little solid structure can be made out that the surgeon is doubtful whether the disease is not purely cystic, of coiu'se the ob- literation of the cysts will be the first measure indicated. If such means do not succeed in checking the growth of the tumour, it vrill then be time to think about more radical measures. I have seen such striking success from the injection of tincture of iodine into these cysts of the neck, that I should not think of employing any other measure at first. If this fail, and still the solid part of the tumour is not in- creasing, setous may be tried. If an attempt be made to dissect out the cyst or cysts, a very free opening should be made by crucial iu- cision, and large flaps of skin be turned back from the tumour. Every part of the cyst should if possible be removed. I have noticed in two of tlie above cases, that I left small fragments of some of the cysts ; but this was done only as a pis aller; in one case because the child wa? dying, in the other because I could not distinguish the cysts from the skin. I related the third case to the Pathological Society a few Aveeks since, when the president mentioned a case in which, in removing a cyst,'a portion had been left adhering to the subclavian vessels, and where the cyst reappeared after many years of apparent health. This uncertainty on the vital question, whether it will be possible effectually to remove such tumours, is another reason for abstaining from the attempt as long as it is justifiable to do so. But in the diffused and rapidly growing tumours I believe total extirpation is the only remedy, and sucli of them as are beyond the reach of that measure I believe to be incurable. Injections are inert in these formidable affections; setons and caustics appear rather to hasten the fatal event. Perhaps the least hopeless plan, when total removal is impossible, would be to lay open the cysts freely, and repeat this from time to time as fresh