IIEPOIIT ON MIDWIl'EUy, KTC. 372 03 externum. (5) Delivery of the body of the fcotus. As the head passes through the pelvis in the first position, i. e. where the occiput js directed towards the left auterior inclined plane, and tiie os frontis towards tlie right posterior inclifted plane, Dr. Hodge believes the middle of the sagittal suture to be iu tlic centre of the pelvis, and tiie head iu a state of semiflexion, so that the posterior fontanelle is lower in the pelvis than the anterior, and the forehead is above the sacro-iliac joint; -whereas the fontanelles are generally described as level, and tlie forehead as opposed to the sacro-iliac symphysis. Under the powerful contractions of the \iterus, the membranes rupture, the head becomes completely flexed, tlie chin being in contact with the sternum and descending through the os uteri. The posterior part of the sagittal suture now occupies the centre of the pelvis, or, should the resistance have been great, the posterior fontanelle will be found here, while the right parietal protuberance will correspond to the right, and the left to the left acetabulum. The cervieo-bregmntic diameter is parallel to the left oblique, and the bi-parietal to the right oblique diameter of the pelvis. In thus describing the position of the foetal head, Dr. Hodge difTers from Naegele and his followers, and believes that their error has arisen from regarding the os vagins3 as the centre of the pelvis, instead of being, as it is, in the anterior portion. The head, having passed through the os \;teri iu this position, returns to a state of semiflexion, and as it descends in the pelvis becomes rotated in the following manner:—The occipital protuberance strikes upon the left anterior inclined plane, and is turned forwards and upwards, while the forehead malies a correspond- ing turn in a contrary direction, and, being extended, presses upou the coccyx; that bone yields,and thus descent, rotation, and extension, are going on at the same time. If a careful examination be made as the head is passing through the interior strait it will be found that the pos- terior foutanelle is in the centre covered by the perinjpum, the bi- parietal corresponds to the transverse, the cervico-bregmatic is parallel to the antero-posterior diameter, in fact, precisely as the head entered the superior strait, the only difference being that at the brim the liead was semiflexed, while here it is partially extended. The subsequent passage through the vaginal canal is that of continued extension ; the rectum, the anus, the perinaeum, each iu its turn bearing the brunt of the downward pressure, until the direction of the orifice of tlie vagina is changed from forwards and downwards to an almost horizontal position. The head having passed, external rotation or restitution takes place. ABIsOEMAL COIfDOTIONS OF THE PEI.VIS (iMPEDTITa DEIITEEX). Barnes, Robert, M.D., " On Spondylolisthesis, with an account of a case of Pelvic Contraction from tliis afTcction in which Premature Labour was induced by the Author's Method" (' Trans. Obst. Soc.,' vol. 5, 1865). a- ■ e Under the name of spondylolisthesis, Kiliau described an affection of the spine, the most interesting character of which is the sliding down- ward of the 4th or -jth lumbar vertebra into the true pelvis, so as to