183 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. ficially treated by Hydr. Biclil. gr ^, with fluid extract of garsaparilla and Glycerine. Detebs.—0« the spontaneous origin of Malignant Pustule as the result of internal cames. L'Union, 24, 25, 1864. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 123, p. 50. The possibility of the spontaneous origin of the disease which was asserted by the earher writers was denied by Enaux and Chaussier. ]S"elaton and Vidal admit that tlie disease may be produced by inocula- tion with morbid matter, and may also originate spontaneously. Devers' observations, made in the department of Landes, in Erance, are to the following effect. The district of La Senate is situated in a barren, dry region, M-ith a calcareous soil, and has a population of about 500 in- habitants. Since the end of the previous century, on account of the want of grass foddei', trefoil and clover were laid down, and the cattle were driven into a neighbouring forest for pasture. Coincidently with this a raging pestilence broke out among the horned cattle and the sheep, viz., malignant pustule, which only subsided, and that gradually, after the natural meadows were restored and many vineyards laid out, by which the live stock was much diminished. Since 1830 no occurrence of malignant pustule was any longer observed among the cattle, but, on the contrary, from a date 10 years earlier it began to prevail among men. The first case, in a man aged 70 resulted from the prick of a thorn; in the 2nd and 3rd cases, one of which proved fatal, infection was doubtful; in the 4th and ^th cases it was clearly demonstrated ; in the 15 other cases observed after 1830 there was decidedlj^ no communica- tion of disorder; in the period from 183 15 to 1848 no case occurred, but from thence up to 1863 there were 12 reported. On the whole, 20 per- sons (6 m. and 14 f) were attacked, of ages varying from 18 to 70; 5 females died, but no males. The pustule was situated 16 times on the arms or on the hand, 4 times on the face. The conclusions which the author draws from the history of this epidemic are as follows—(a) Causes.—In La Bcnate carbuncular fever appeared among animals, in consequence of bad feeding, and disappeared again after about 30 years, when the cause was removed. During this epizootic some cases of pustula maligna were observed in men, which were directly communi- cated by contagion from without. After a pause of 13 years there have again been observed for some years in men numerous cases exactly like the first, but as the disease in animals had ceased for a long time these could only have proceeded from internal causes. These causes appear to develop themselves in men under the influence of excessive heat and dryness during the summer, (b) Natxire of the disease.—The pustule is the most common result of the action of the poison of carbuncle upon men, whether the same be introduced from without or has originated spontaneously in the system. The special reaction of the human organism in the endeavour to remove the poison induces the formation of the pustule, unless its powers are overwhelmed by the excessive quan- tity of the spontaneously pi'oduced poison, or by the direct reception of the same into the circulatory, digestive, or respiratory channels. The carbuncular poison concentrated in the pustvile appears at first to suD:er