VISCERAL SYPHILIS. 247 I single or multiple, simple or starred, cicatricial furrows, of more or less deep depressions, and of fibrous bands or layers in the parencbyma. Of tbese lesions, the former differ from the atrophies wliich result from the obliteration of vessels, by the presence of a considerable amount of fibrous tissue at the depressed spot, and by their not following the course of the vessels. They are distinguished from traumatic cicatrices by the absence of the colouring matter of the blood. The latter varieties may be differentiated from absorbed or cicatrized purulent collections by their multiplicity and the absence of purulent detritus in and around the cicatricial membrane. To these anatomical forms we may add one which is peculiar to glands ; it is hypertrophy witb or without change in the active elements. Out of twenty-four cases the author found hypertrophy of the spleen, ten times, of the deep lymphatic glands, ten times, of the thyroid, four times, of the supra-renal capsules, twice. Tinally, in some cases he found the follicles of the base of the tongue, pharynx, and tonsils hypertro- phied. These glandular lesions are usually accompanied by an altera- tion in the blood and cachexia. The fatty, amyloid, lardaceous, or waxy degenerations of the organs, especially of the liver and kidney, are met with in many cases ; there is, however, every reason to believe that they are not developed, like the preceding alterations, from the immediate influence of syphilis ; moreover they accompany a great number of other diseases with cachexia, particularly when the bones are diseased. Of all the viscera, the liver is the most frequently aftected by syphilis. The author has noted interstitial hepatitis or syphilitic cirrhosis, thrice; gummata without cicatrices, once ; cicatrices without gummata, seven times; cicatrices of the surface of the liver with gummata in its interior, eleven times. In most cases the liver was adherent to the diaphragm or adjacent viscera; there had consequently been perihepatitis, an affec- tion Avhich was never observed isolated. Out of the same number of cases there were in the kidney interstitial nephritis, thrice; nephritis with waxy degeneration, twice; little dis- seminated tumours, once ; cicatrices of the sui'face, with atrophy, twice. The testicles in three cases presented the following lesions; gummy masses causing increased size of both testicles, with complete disappear- ance of the glandular elements, once; gummy growths in the one, and interstitial orchitis of the other, testis, once; periorchitis, once. In I some other cases, the testes have been atrophied, the atrophy being I apparently only a termination of interstitial orchitis of syphilitic i origin. The author has also met with alterations in the ovaries very I analogous to those of the testis just mentioned. In the brain, the author has seen old gummy tumours which had in part undergone fatty degeneration, twice ; a cyst-like membrane with numerous partitions occupying the greater part of the right anterior lobe, with secondary atrophy of the corresponding anterior pyramid and of the antero-lateral fasciculus of the opposite side, once ; cicatrices i. on the surface of one of the convolutions and a cicatricial fibrous band i at the junction of the gray and white substance, once; amyloid de- fi generation of the choroid plexus and softening of the pons (once).