REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKRIA ifEmCA. 4-2G hydride would tlieu be formed iiintead of the gaseous. Tlie converse error may also occur. Thus, if the sulphuric acid should contaiu at the same time traces of arsenic and of niti-ic acid the preliminary experi- ment would produce only the solid hydride. Now, if, relying on the purity of the materials, the chemist should introduce into the appa- ratus the suspected liquid, and if this, though free from arsenic, should contain a little organic matter incompletely destroyed, the reactions would at once change, and the arsenic which had all along been present in the apparatus would assume the gaseous form, and might thus give rise to a fatal error." In the 'Ann. d'Hyg.' (21, p. 152) are contained some observations by M. Gaultier de Claubry on the same subject, which confirm the statements of M. Blondlot. He says that the action of nitric acid in preventing the formation of the gaseous compounds of hydrogen and arsenic is probably not one of oxidation, for chromic and chloric acids, though powerful oxygenants, produce no similar effect. He compares it rather to the generation of ammonia, which is known to take place when nitric acid acts upon zinc or tin in very dilute solutions. He also suggests another way in which it is possible that errors might arise in the application of Marsh's test. The solid hydride of arsenic, if exposed to the air, while adherent to the surface of metallic zinc, becomes after a time converted into arsenious acid. Under such cir- cumstances^ arsenical stains might be obtained from zinc which some days before had appeared perfectly free from any trace of the poison, and its presence would therefore be ascribed to the substance which was undergoing examination. The following are the properties of the solid hydride. It is a brownish-black substance, without any crystal- line form. It is insoluble in water, and is not converted into arsenious acid, even by ebullition. It is not dissolved by cold sulphuric or hydro- chloric acid, whether diluted or concentrated; but if heat be applied it gives with sulphuric acid arsenious and sulphurous acids, with hydro- chloric acid chloride of arsenic and the gaseous hydride. Nitric acid and chlorine dissolve it rapidly in the cold. When it is heated in an open tube arsenious acid and water are produced. Dr. A. Gamgee (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Nov., 1864, p. 408) made, at the suggestion of Dr. Maclagau, a series of experiments, with the object of testing the accuracy of M. Blondlot's statements. He finds that when the quantity of arsenious acid is very small, and the proportion of nitric acid in the sulphuric acid is large, no arsenical mirrors are produced by Marsh's process. Thus, sulphuric acid, containing 1.5 per cent, of anhydrous nitric acid, did prevent the formation of mirrors from about i-5ootli grain of arsenic, but it did not do so when the quantity of arsenic amounted to i-iooth of a grain. On the other hand, with an acid containing about ,3 per cent, of nitric acid good mirrors were obtained from i-ioooth of a grain of arsenic, though their development was to a certain extent checked. As commercial sul- phuric acid is not likely to contain even 3 per cent, of anhydrous nitric acid, Dr. Gamgee therefore thinks that no practical objection to the employment of Marsh's test can arise from this source. His experiments led him to conclude that when nitric acid does prevent the formi^-