162 UEPOllT ON I'llACTICAIj MEDICINE. excessive tissue metaniorpliosis, iind consequent too rapid blood con- sumption. Hence we occasionally meet with it in low levers, in diph- theria, in pneumonia and some other inflammatory affections, in lesiona of tlie nervous system, during an attack of gout, after a fit of ague, and during convalescence from nearly all grave diseases. It is, however, in chlorosis (either in tlie male or female), and tlie many unnameable obscui-e afl'ections of that class, where it becomes a dangerous symptom. In fact, it always indicates the existence of a past or present mischief, meriting the closest attention of tlie physician, and where we cannot remove the cause we must at least attempt to check the effects of the symptom, viz., to restore to the blood as much as possible of the mate- rial which is being drained from it. Harley recommends the various syrups of the phosphate of iron as the best remedies, or, in cases where the drain is very great, gr. j—iss doses of zinc. In some cases of dis- ease the excretion of uro-haematiu by the kidneys appears to be dimi- nished, but this is only when the system has been so drained that there is little more to come away. With regard to blue, green, brown, and black urine, or, more exactly, urines which assume these colours a certain time after they have been voided, Harley asserts that these several pigments are nothing more than grades of oxidation of a white radical. With regard to phosphoric acid, Harley states that in inflammatory diseases of the nervous system, notwithstanding the low diet on which the patient may be placed, there is an actual increase in the amount of phosphoric acid excreted. In a patient suffering from paralysis, the result of injury to the head, an enormous excess of phosphates was found in the urine. A few days after admission the patient eliminated no less than i35'6o9 grains of phosphoric acid in 24 hours, and this, too, ftt a time when he was taking very httle food^ and that little poor in phosphates. Gradually, as the patient recovered from the effects of the injury, the phosphoric acid daily diminished, till it actually fell below the normal standard, notwithstanding that his food was more abundant and richer in phosphates. Harley speaks very highly of the good effect of administering phosphoric acid in degenerative disease of the nervous centres, and superphosphate of lime in rickets. Under the head of oxaluria, Harley remarks that skill and judgment are required in the treatment. A remedy that is suitable for one patient may be qiiite inappropriate for another; and even in the same patient, life being an ever-fluctuating quantity, a remedy which was beneficial at one time may prove prejudicial at another. For example, I have seen cases of oxaluria which had resisted all the usual routine of mineral acid tonics at once entirely disappear when the patient was put on the acid phosphate of soda, and vice versa. With regard to drinks, carbonated alkalies must be refrained from as they are transformed into oxalates in the body. It is important that the'water used should contain but little lime, for if this be not the case any oxaUc acid pre- sent will combine with the lime, and thus form one of the most insoluble of salts. Oxalate of lime and prosphatic calculi are the two mo.st common forms of stone met with in districts where the water is impregnated with large quantities of lime, and it is astonishing how long it some-