fiUNERAL SYSTEJr, 37 been iu feeble health. By means of a daily hot balli, ami hob oil iu- iinction, wrapping in cotton wool, and diligent feeding at short intervals, she was gradually restored. Smith, E., M.D.—0)1 Ohcsihj. Lancet, May 14, 21. Smith distinguishes apparent obesity from prominence of the abdomen from the real state. His conclusions arc as follows :—(i) In a medical point of view, we must consider in every case whether the bulk and weight of the body are appreciably in excess of the natural standard of health. If the person for reasons of his own seeks to reduce his size below this, he must be responsible for the results. (2) An accurate estimate must also be made of the degree of vigour of system, including the power of heart, and the functions of digestion and assimilation ; also of the condition under which the patient lives, and the capability which he has for making exertion, in order to determine what amount of deficiency of food, elimination of fluid, and exercise can be tolerated consistently with good health. (3) When the plan of treatment has been arranged, it must be carried out slowly and steadily for a number of weeks or months, without being departed from in any instance. (4) The state of the health and of the bodily vigour, must be watched from time to time; and as the bulk of the body diminishes, the supply of food must be increased. (5) AVhen the desired bulk has been attained, it will not be possible to maintain an exactly uniform weight over long periods; but a dietary must be then devised, which shall suffice to maintain health and weight under the conditions in which the patient lives. (6) When the complaint is only of an enlarged abdomen, it will not be necessary, neither will it be safe, to lessen materiallj' the amount of food supplied ; but attention to the evacuations, to digestion, to the reduction of starchy food, to the avoidance of fish, and to elimi- nation by the skin, Avill produce the desired results. (7) When with bulk of body there is looseness of the tissues, it is essential that the strength be supported by abundant nitrogenized food, and by a small quantity of wine, at the same time that the elimination of fluid is maintained by active exertion, and the use of the hot-air bath followed by the cold douche. (8) When with obesity there is a vigorous system, deficiency in the supply of food^ and increase in bodily exertion may be appropriately enforced. Butcher's meat should supply a large propor- tion of the nutriment, whilst fai'inaceous food should be much restricted. Brown bread should be given with a view to maintain a free action of the bowels ; and gluten bread with its excess of nitrogen and deficieney of starch, when toasted, may supply its place or be added to it. Only so much milk, sugar, aud fats should be given as may complete the quan- tity of carbon required. Fish is far less suitable than butcher's meat; and if wine must be taken, it should contain as little alcohol as possible. Beer and spirits should be avoided. The exact amount of these diflferent kinds of food must be determined by the requirements of each individual case, but two schemes maybe mentioned, one of which (A) shall supply 7^ oz., and the other (B) oz. of carbon. (A) Butcher's meat without bone, raw, 12 oz.; bread, 6 oz.; sugar \\ oz.; butter, i oz.; vegetables, 4 oz.; milk, <; fl. oz. (B) Butcher's meat without bone, raw, 10 oz. ;