CAUSE or SEmC^^MIA. 229 and a lialf drops of aqualiydro-sulph.; it ultimately recovered, but died after the injection of four drops. Much larger quantities of sulphuret of ammonium are borne; rabbits resist the injection of six, dogs of twenty drops of it in water. For the former ten drops, for the latter sixty drops are fatal. Butyric acid is more poisonous: five drops are indeed still borne by rabbits, though they suffice to kill a little cat; for the former ten drops are, however, absolutely lethal. At least six experiments were made with each substance, and in all tlie injection was passed with the necessary care into the crural vein. These experiments prove, that the various substances, which are formed during the decomposition of pus and blood, cause symptoms far more like those induced by putrid fluids, than do ammonia or urea. The effects of the solution of sulphuretted hydrogen resemble the most closely those of putrid fluids: very extensive congestions and transuda- tions, which may be traced from the stomach to the rectum along the whole intestinal canal, in severer cases accompanied by decided croupy changes, occur in the same manner in both. The violent peristaltic movements and the spasmodic strictures of the bowel are identical in both. The same statement is true of the nervous symptoms; the latter, however, when excited by sulphuretted hydrogen and siilphuret of ammonium, resemble those from putrid fluids more nearly than do those induced by butyric acid. The cause of septicaemia must there- fore principally depend on the passage of these matters into the blood ; besides, as these chemical products are very rapidly formed in purulent collections which are directly or indirectly exposed to the air, and always occur in gangrenous disintegration of the tissues, it is very sur- prising that septiccemia does not occur much more frequently, the impreg- nation of the tissues and vessels with such matters appearing scarcely avoidable. Bo the granulations jyrevent ahsorption ? It is astonishing what little quantities suffice to cause serious poisoning of the blood. The changes in the blood deserve further examination: the alteration in its colour is decided; after the injection of butyric acid it becomes of a dirty green, and aiter that of sulphuretted hydrogen very dark. It is less affected by sulphuret of ammonium. The blood-corpuscles appear after all three much contracted and wrinkled; possibly they may lose certain functional properties. It is noteworthy that the blood after the injec- tion of sulphuret of ammonium coagulates very rapidly, but very slowly after that of sulphuretted hydrogen or butyric acid. The latter effect is also produced by the injection of putrid fluids, notwithstanding the older views and theories. Whilst the clinical delineation of pyemia is often compounded of septicaemic and embolic phenomena, various attempts have also been made to explain traumatic fever as a kind of septicaemia; Eoser espe- cially has recently* defended this view in an able manner. Weber shows that the temperature-curves in traumatic and (artificial) septic fever, are very similar. More important than this similarity, which also appears in other febrile affections, is the following experiment; it is, * Vide ' Year-Book' for 1863, p. 192.