332 llEPOUT ON SURGERY. Journ. of Med. Science,'vol. xxxvi, p. 26-;).—"On tlie 2;st May, i8<)3, a man nged ,3 years, a carpenter by trade, was admitted under niy care into the Mcatb ]Ios[)ital, with a reducible oblique inguinal hernia on the right side, of which he had become the subject, 3 mouths previously, whilst lifting a weighty piece of timber. The tumour was not large, nor had it passed beyond the external ring. He suftered pain in cougli- ing, sneezing, or when lie made any imusual exertion at his trade. He Avas at first quite ignorant of the nature of his malady ; but, when in- formed that it was a rupture, he begged that anything might be done which would secure him from the annoyance of wearing a truss, of the discomfort of wliich he had often heard people speak. Considering his age, good state of health, the small size of the tumour, and the length of time he was suffering from the disease, I regarded it as a favorable case, of which a radical cure might be attempted. Before describing the operation, I cannot do better, perhaps, than quote from ^Mr. Syme's work respecting the instruments and appliances required. He says:—' Instead of a complicated machine for distending the inva- ginated integument, I employed a piece of bougie, or gutta percha, to one end of which was attached a strong double thread. The plug, thus prepared and smeared with cantharides ointment, was drawn into its place by the threads, which by means of a curved needle, guided on the fingers fairly within the ring, were passed, at the distance of rather more than an inch from each other, through all the textures to the surface, where they were tied firmly together on a piece of bougie, to prevent undue pressure on the skin.' The bougie with the cord attached, I may remark, is prepared by drilling a small hole in its top, and drawing the double thread through, when it can be made fast, with- out fear of giving way, by tying to it a little piece of paper or linen, which is drawn with the knot tightly into the hollow bougie. The strings should be made of stout hemp or silk, and about twelve inches in length. I used, on the occasion, a long needle, with a flat sharp point, slightly curved, like those employed in making post-mortem ex- aminations ; though I recommend ' Liston's needle,' fixed in a handle, as much more manageable. " Operation, May 27th.—The patient, having had his bowels well freed by castor oil, taken the night previously, and his bladder emptied a few minutes before, was placed in the recumbent position on a table, witli his legs hanging over, his feet supported, his shoulders slightly raised, and the right thigh flexed a little. Standing between his legs, I pushed up, with the forefinger of my left hand, a large plug of scrotal integu- ment into the external abdominal ring; and, feeling fairly within its sides, I took the needle with one of the threads attached, and, guiding it along the finger so placed, I transfixed the external pillar and abdominal parietes. Then, taking the thread from the needle, an assistant threaded it with the second cord, when I passed it through the internal pillar, and made its point appear about an inch and one eighth internal to the first aperture. Having then withdrawn the finger, I pulled the portion of bougie, well smeared with cantharides ointment, by means of the two strings, into the situation previously occupied by my finger, invaginat- ing the structures as it assumed its place; and, lastly, 1 tied tightly