BJ2P011T ON PEACTtCAL MEDICINK. 70 do run on from it, and under it to the aortic arch. Again, though the 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal spaces form the liahitat. of this pain, it may be felt in the 5th and in the 9th also; tliis being readily accounted for by the delicate and very irregular filaments wiiich run from the ist and 2nd dorsal ganglia, as well as from the great variations in tlie mode by which the dorsal sympathetics form the great splanchnic. So far, then, Martyn believes there is reason, on anatomical, physiological, experimental, and pathological grounds, for adopting this theory that infra-mammary pain is a reflex neuralgia, expressive of some distress in the heart. The indi- cations for treatment are to remove the source of irritation, relieve the heart of its work, and allay the pain. Graefe.—On Cardio-Thyroiclean KvopJithahnia. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 17. Graefe points out a symptom wbich presents itself from the first, is constant, characteristic, and pathognomonic. It is the suspension of the sympathetic connection normally existing between the vertical rotation of the visual plane, and the movement of elevation and depression of the superior eyelid. In the normal state the eyelid is seen to follow this movement, and to be elevated or depressed in proportion to the extent of the rotation of the eye. But in this disease the eyelid remains motionless, especially in the rotation of the eye downwards. Latcock, T., M.D.—Clinical lecture on Exophthalmos. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. 24. Laycock relates two cases ; the first entitled vascular bronchocele, with exophthalmos and palpitations following upon a fright—neuralgia, but no anaemia; the second exophtlialmos and vascular bronchocele with palpi- tations and neuralgia, aggravated paroxysmally; no anemia. The first case was not treated, the second was made worse by iron and digitalis. Some cases of highly-marked anaemia are contrasted with the preceding, in which none of the peculiar symptoms of Graves' disease occurred, and which recovered under the use of iron and ergot. Laycock proceeds—it has been a doubt with me for some time past whether even in these cases it is the anaemia exclusively which gives rise to the murmurs, or whether there is not something in the constitution and morbid proclivities of the sex which is a cause of them, in part at least. He cites cases of great anaemia in males without any murmurs, and says the absence of these murmurs in anaemic men is the rule; their occurrence the rule in women, but in women with true chlorosis, and amenorrhoea, menorrhagia, and utero-ovarian disease. Even abdominal pulsations and murmurs, so common in the hypochondriacal and hysterical of both sexes, will not result from anaemia, as was proved by the absence of such murmurs in the cases referred to, although the aorta pulsated well; while in a case with little anaemia, although cachectic looking, there is loud murmur. As to the nature and causes of Graves' disease, and of inorganic murmurs in women, Laycock remarks that both are almost peculiar to women. The only two exceptional cases of palpitation and vascular bronchocele he has ever seen were both in highly nervous, hysterical males. Moreover, the above nflections never are seen in old women. They therefore are in