397 FIBROUS TUMOUM OF THE UTERUS. except where the tumours were very small, secondary enucleation was less fatal. Simple incision of the os and cervix will, in some cases, cause the absorption of the tumour. Of the operation by gastrotomy, 33 cases are recorded, and of these, 10 recovered. As to the causes of death, 9 died from hemorrhage, 5 from peritonitis, and the rest from " shock" a few hours after the operation. The author concludes that gastrotomy for fibroid tumours should not be performed except in the case of extra-uterine tumours, or where the tumour was high up so as to allow removal of hoth the uterus and the ovaries. The cases of fibroid tumours which, in the author's opinion, justify operative interference are—(i) where, by their rapid growth, they threaten to interfere with vital functions ; (2") where they are threatening to arrest micturition and defaecation; (3) where they interfere greatly with respi- ration and the cardiac circulation ; (4) where hsemorrhage is excessive, and threatens life by exhaustion. Enucleation was indicated in cases of tumours in the true pelvis. Gas- trotomy was indicated in cases of tumours in or above the true pelvis, especially if these were fibro-C3'stic. In cases of excessive haemorrhage patients were most liable to pyaemia. Injections should, if possible, precede enucleation or extirpation, to enable the patient to rally. In no case was it safe to operate for the removal of a fibroid tumour of the uterus unless the sound had been previously introduced into the uterus. 2.—Mr. Hutchinson states the following as conclusions arrived at from a careful study of the subject of fibrous tumours of the uterus, in reference to surgical treatment: — i. That surgical interference with interstitial fibrous tumours of the uterus is always attended with very consider- able risk, and ought not to be practised except under circumstances of urgency or when the position of the growth is peculiarly tempting. 2. That when the tumour is not of very large size, and is already partially extruded, the operation is rendered comparatively devoid of danger, and ought to be performed at once. 3. That when the tumour is as yet wholly imbedded, and even when of large size, the enucleation treatment is yet warrantable if the patient's life be threatened by hajmorrhage. 4. That primary enucleation, where at all easily practi- cable, is much preferable to the secondary method. 5. That where the tumour is very large, or where found after the incisions to be firmly united to its capsule, the secondary plan should be preferred. 6. That whichever plan it is intended to adopt, the first incision should, excepting under unusual circumstances, be made from within the cavity of the cervix, and should be as free as possible. 7. That the danger of haemorrhage from this incision is very slight. 8. That as much should be done as'practicable at the first operation in freeing the tumour from its cyst. Thus, if the adhesion, be found more loose than had been expected, a primary enucleation may be completed where the slower plan had been proposed. 9. That the after- treatment in cases of primary enucleation should consist in warding ofi" the shock by opiates, in sustaining the strength, and in the free use of stimuli and nutritious diet. 10. That in cases of secondary enucleation the ergot of rye should be administered, so as to keep up vigorous uterine action, and that the greatest attention should be paid to sustainino- the