214. IIKPOUT ON SUJIOKRY. causing tlio resultant paralysis. Of the seven cases above repoiied, two were in active movement, two were standing about taking aim, one was kneeling, and of two wo have no information as to this point. It may- prove, upon examining a larger immbcr of cases, that a man wounded when moving violently, or when excited, is more than another liable to reflex paralysis, but as yet we are not entitled to such an inference. In most of our cases the constitutional eflccts were instant and severe, and could not therefore have been due to the loss of hlood, which in some of thena was copious. Four of the seven cases had stinging, smarting, or burning pain in the part paralysed reflectively. The pain was an early symptom, which disappeared in all of them after a time. In three cases no such pains were complained of. The after history of these cases is extremely curious. However grave the lesion of motion or sensation, it grew better early in the case, and continued to improve until the part had nearly recovered all its normal powers. In almost every instance some relic of the paralysis remained, even after eighteen months or more from the date of wounding. In some the part remained weak, in others there was still left some slight loss of sensibility^, and in two the loss of power and of sensory appreciation was very considerable. In a case of reflex paralysis from a wound we have, therefore, some right to expect that the patient will recover rapidly up to a certain point; then in most cases a small amount of loss of power or sensation may remain. The future history of our own or other cases may determine hereafter whether the recovery is ever quite complete. " In two of the seven cases there were lesions of sensation and motion. In three, motion alone was lost, and in two the senses of tact and of pain were affected without other loss of function. " Although long periods had elapsed in every case before we examined them, in only one was there any very notable wasting; and even in this patient the loss was general througout the member, and may be readily ascribed to mere lack of use. In none was there atrophy, such as cha- racterises lesions of nerves, and certain rheumatic and other palsies, save, perhaps, in the doubtful instance of the right arm in Case i." After discussing the explanation given by Brown-Sdquard for reflex paralysis, it is remarked, that " either the shock of a wound destroys directly the vital power of a nerve centre, or it causes paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves of the centre, with consequent congestion and secondary alterations. But there is no reason why, if shock be com- petent to destroy vitality in vaso-motor nerves or centres, it should be incompetent so to effect the centres of motion or sensation. Until tlie causation of these cases is better understood, it is vain to speak confidently as to treatment founded on a conception of the mode of their production. Experience htis shown that the removal of the first cause, and in some instances the application of alteratives, as blisters to tlie cicatri.x, prove valuable in relieving such induced pain as may exist. Further, that stimulating liniments or blisters to the afl'ected member are useful, and that the local application of induced electric currents to the muscles is of the utmost service. The question of the use of internal remedies has yet to be decided by larger clinical experience. We ourselves have been un- fortunate, in that no chances have presented themselves of treating these