48 UEl'OllT OX I'llACTlCAL MKUlCJNi;. little doubt tluit the iuereaso is cousiderable. The hvnitai amouut in one day iu tlie casos of typlioid was .581 gmins, which ibnned more than three iburtlis ol" tlic wliolc solid matter in the urine. The chlorides iu case 5 were altogether absent, and in a patient of Dr. Thompson's they were almost so. A. Vogel, Parkes, and others, attribute this diminution to tlie spare diet, and to the passing off of the chloride in some cases by the bowels and skin. Howitz has advocated tlie same view, aud states that, apart from pneumonia, febrile conditions have no inllueuce on the chloride of sodium. This statement can hardly bo strictly correct, for we find the chlorides absent sometimes in cases of rheumatism without any pneumonia. The spare diet cannot be urged as an argument iu case i, nor can sweating, for the patient took large quantities of nitrogenous food, aud had at the same time a hot, dry skin; moreover, there was very little diarrhoea. Dr. Parkes seems to think that the chlorides may be retained in the system as in pneumonia. The uric acid was increased in every case, being thrown down abun- dantly when acid was added to the urine. The amount was not deter- mined. The sulphates in one case were diminished. It is usual, according to Dr. Parkes, to find them increased. There was in all the cases an increase in the amount of pigment, probably from an increase of normal pigment, as no evidence of any other was obtained. The urates were found largely increased at the time of convalescence in 3 cases, in case 2 before that period. Albumen was present in 2 of the 4 cases of typhoid, and in both the cases of typhus. It occurred in one third of Dr. Parkes' cases. In no case could any casts be found, although the urine was several times carefully examined for them. In a patient of Dr. Thompson's, there were abundant granular and fibrinous casts, but it is probable that the kidney lesion had existed previously. Albumen seems to be far more common and more abundant when pi"e- sent in typhus fever. Its presence appears to be owing to some con- gestion of the kidneys from the existence of some poison in the blood; but whether any peculiar condition of kidney is produced seems uncer- tain. Most probably not, or we should not find the evidences of kidney lesion so transitory in their character. Gull records ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' Aug. 20th) a case of continued fever, which in the early stage appeared to be typhoid, and in the later typhus. "When the patient first came into hospital he had little or no doubt that it was a well-marked case of tyi)hoid. His appearance, his history, the rash, the relaxation of the bowels, the tenderness in the right iliac region—all pointed iu that direction. In order to be sure. Gull marked the spots, and a few days after found they had disap- peared, and instead of a fresh crop of typhoid spots, the skin had a general mottled appearance all over the trunk exactly resembling the typhus rasli. On the right cheek was a bright roseate patch while the left was very pale, an indication according to previous experience of mischief iu the ileum. There were yellow-ochrey motions, low mut- tering delirium, enlargement of the spleen. At tiie post-mortem a small ulcer was found on one arytenoid cartilage, there were marks of recent ]5critonitis, a perforation was found in the intestine, and the