IIESPIRATION. 17 introduced into the lungs by tlie number which measures their capacity, o-ives the " coefficient of ventilation." This is proportional to the depth of the inspiration ; it increases or diminishes as the volume of the lungs diminishes or increases, if the respiration remains constant. Gases mixed with the air inspired penetrate, like it, to the extremities of the bronchi. The volume of an ordinary inspiration, the respiration preserving its ordinary rhythm, is a little more than half a litre (about i pint). The expired air, at a temperature of 20° (36° Pahr.), is saturated with vapour ■ifc 3 j° (63° Fahr.). The weight of water exhaled in 24 hours amounts, both by experiment and by calculation, to 5^7 grammes (18 oz.); but from this must be deducted the vapour contained in the air inspired. (" Phy- sical Eesearches on Respiration;" ' Journ. de TAnat. et Phys.,' 1864, No. 5, p. 523.) Pidmonary Lesions produced by section of the Piieumogastric Nerves.— 11. Roddaert has traced the various changes observed in the lungs after section of the pneumogastrics to their causes, and finds that they are attributable to interference with the functions of distinct organs, and to a great extent secondary rather than direct. His conclusions are—(i) In mammalia section of the pneumogastrics in the cer- vical region produces upon the respiratory apparatus diverse effects, of which some are referable to paralysis of the inferior laryngeal nerves, others to paralysis of the pulmonary branches. (2) To these two classes of effects correspond two classes of pulmonary lesions; the inflammatory phenomena observed in some species of animals, in certain conditions, are due to the penetration of foreign bodies into the air-passages, consequent on paralysis of the larynx; the emphysema, the hyperemia, and their consequences, are due to the amplitude and the rarity of the inspirations, consequent on paralysis of the pulmonary branches. (3) As a secondary cause of the former series of changes, must be mentioned paralysis of the oesophagus; as secbndary causes of the second series of lesions, the modi- fication of the heart's action and the coagula formed in the divisions of the pulmonary artery. (4) Section of one pneumogastric has no influence on the anatomical state of the lungs, or causes only insignificant lesions, because it does not give rise to these physiological disturbances. (5). Section of the loth pair in birds is not followed by pulmonary changes, because, of the two causes mentioned, the first is absent, and the second exerts its influence over organs differently constituted, on which it does not produce the same effects. ('Journ. de la Phys.,' Nos. 19 and 20.) Cause of the Respiratory Murmur.—Dr. Boudet (' Gaz. Hebdom.,' 10, 49—52, 1863) narrates experiments, chiefly on horses, made with a view of determining the cause of the normal respiratory murmur. His conclu- sions are that the sound arises from a sonorous wave occasioned by the passage of air from a narrow passage into a wider one. It divides itself into two elements—one arising from the various narrowings of the larynx and palate; the other, arising at the points of opening of the smallest bronchial tubes into the cells (vesicular murmur) ; the expiratory murmur is due solely to tiie resonance of the laryngeal sound, and to the passa^^e of the air from the smaller to the larger bronchi. That the murmur cannot be due, as Skoda thought, to the friction of the air, is shown by the entire disappearance of the vesicular murm ur after section of the 2