IIEPOIIT ON SUllGKliY. 200 nicnt thai; tliero had been a great loss of blood, the real danger might have escaped observation. In order to examine the iujnry thorouglily, the patient was placed under chloroform. On inserting the finger into the wound, it was found to pass obliquely upwards; and on tracing the lacerated tendon of the adductor, the sartoriiis Avas felt divided, and the end of the femoral artery pulsating in Hunter's canal. In addition to this, a large accompanying A'ein was torn across, and the shaft of the femur laid bare at the seat of injury. Altliough, under these circum- stances, there was great liability to gangrene of the limb, it was not deemed proper to adopt severe measures in the first instance, inasmuch as the patient was young, the bruising of textures limited, and there was no great eflusion of blood to compress or prevent the collateral circulation. The wound was, therefore, extended in the direction of the course of the main vessel, and one end secui-ed in Hunter's canal; the other, which had retracted into the popliteal space, was followed and tied. The recovery of the patient was uninterrupted and complete; hut if the rule stated above had been neglected, there is every proba- bility that, on the restoration of the natural force of the circulation, the clot Avould have been broken down, the hajmorrhage been repeated, and the already exhausted child have succumbed under the further loss of blood. In the second case, M. P—, a wound of the brachial artery was treated in the country for two weeks with compresses and bandage; but during that time there had been repeated attacks of hsemorrhage, which greatly exhausted the patient, and the wound had assumed such an unhealthy appearance, that it was impossible to continue the treat- ment. Erom the position of the wound over the bend of the arm, and from the occurrence of repeated bleedings per saUum, there could be little doubt that the brachial was opened into. In order to tie the bleeding vessel, the incision was extended, and the infiltrated textures separated by the finger. The round tendon of the biceps was then felt completely divided, and the semilunar fascia entire and stretched ; but as the wound passed in the direction of the artery, the fascia was divided, and the lymph over the vessel broken down. After this, when the tourniquet was relaxed, blood was seen to issue from a puncture in the side of the brachial, just above the bifurcation; a double ligature was therefore applied above and below the opening. The arm was kept in a flexed position, in order to promote the union of the biceps. After this there was no recurrence of the haemorrhage. In this patient the operation was much more difficult than in the former, on account of the infiltrated state of the tissues, and the great difficulty experienced both in separating them and in recognising the various textures. Two instances of suspected wound of the palmar arch were admitted some days after receipt of the injuries. As the patients were strong men, and little affected by the haemorrhage, there was no great risk from bleeding, so long as they were under direct observation. Compresses were therefore placed directly over the wound and over the radial and ulnar, and secured by a firmly applied bandage. This, combined witli flexion and elevation of the limb, proved suflicient to prevent further hamorrliage." , H. Lee, two cases of ulceration of arteries ('Mod. Tim. and Gaz.,