285 TIIEATMENT OF CONTliACTED KNEE. died oil tho evening of tlie same day tliat these operations were per- formed. The author employed the specimen to test the degree of resistance of eacli particular layer. For this purpose the extremity was separated at the hip-joint, and fixed on a board, its anterior surface being down- wards ; a weight of 3 pounds was fastened to the foot. Although the origins of the flexor muscles had been divided, the leg still formed an angle of 124° with the thigh after the attachment of the weight. After division of the skin it was 126°. The superficial fascia was then care- fully removed, and the angle increased to 133°. The deeper cellular tissue presented striug-like processes, of which one surrounded the peroneal nerve, and several passed from the middle line to tbe sheath of the biceps: the parts between the heads of the gastrocnemius were now excised so far as could be without injury of the posterior capsule,— the angle was then 139°. The muscles both of the thigh and leg were divided two and a half inches from the joint by straight incisions down to the bone; the angle scarcely changed, certainly not more than half a degree. "When, however, the muscles and their sheaths were entirely removed, leaving only the posterior capsule and a firm layer of connec- tive tissue with which it was covered, the angle increased to 150°. After a transverse section of this layer and of the posterior capsule without ijyury of the lateral ligaments, the angle at once became rather greater than 180°. Similar results were found in the examination of the other two specimens. Hence it would appear that the application of force sufficient to straighten a contracted knee, the patient being fully under the influence of chloroform, would not rupture the muscles, but only the more resisting fibrous bands. At the same time it should always be remembered that the vessels and nerves may be seriously contused, and that the bones may yield rather than these pseudo-ligaments. Another deduction is that subcutaneous division of the tendons can be of little service in such cases. The author's own experience has shown him, that where the con- figuration of the bones has not been much altered by disease, the limbs may be straightened, so as to place the articular surfaces in their normal position, and to leave little or no trace of subluxation; this was the result in 3 out of 56 patients treated for contracture, the efi'ect of disease of the knee-joint. In the immense majority of cases the articular surfaces of the tibia and femur have been so damaged and altered in form, that it is only in the rarest examples possible to again restore the bones to their normal position. The almost universal result is that the tibia is j)laced straight at the spot with which it previously formed an angle. Any sudden attempt at straightening the limb would involve risk of increasing the subluxation; yet, as the author remarks, any such dan- ger may be readily avoided, provided the surgeon is not so vain as to attempt to place every anchylosed knee straight at a single sitting. Whenever there is any but the slightest obstacle, the author at the first operation only extends or ruptures the parts which first become tense. Now, whilst the ordinary machine for stretching the knee is quite useless before such an operation, it is surprising how readily the