SECUETOKY SYSTEM. 155 But when the patient is suffering from a high irritative fever, the result of inward and hidden suppuration, more or less extensive, and when emaciation, night-sweats, and exhaustion, are sure to follow, what is to he clone to save life ? If we are to rely on the authority of sys- tematic writers, or even on that of elaborately recorded statistics, we shall do nothing; yet the sufferer is sinking daily, and such course of inaction is neither satisfactory nor just. To wait upon nature, as we call it, is here to wait for death. Frericbs, even on his European ex- perience, cautious us against delay in so critical a position. " We must not wait for the supervention of fluctuation, or for the cederaatous in- filtration of the abdominal walls ; because these signs, especially in the intercostal spaces, are sometimes late in making their appearance; in such cases the prominences of the false ribs and the obliteration of their intercostal spaces suffice to justify operation." .This_ distin- guished authority adds that " when the abscess takes a direction out- wards we ought not to delay in making an artificial opening. In most cases, when fluctuation can be detected, the abscess has already attained a considerable size; and the longer its evacuation is delayed the greater are the dangers of its bursting into the abdominal cavity, of an extensive destruction of the liver, and of the formation of a dense, rigid, not easily cicatrized cyst." Again, " care must be taken not to lose time in countei'acting the exhaustion which at this period is apt to supervene in an imminent degree." Statistics will not solve our difficulties, for none of them have as yet counted in how many instances surgical aid had come too early, in how many cases when too late, nor yet in how many cases was the operation believed, and by the result judged, to have been performed just at the right time. Without such important and necessary information the numerical system can in the case before us yield no other than an unsafe guide to surgical action. To count the few persons who may come home from India suffering from suppuration of the liver consequent on hepatitis, and who have trocar marks on their flanks, is to trifle with an important subject. What we desire to know is, how many per cent, died in India, or on the voyage home, from the neglect or from the fear of the trocar; how many per cent, might have been saved by an earlier and more judicious recourse to operation. No one can have seen much of hepatic disease, as it prevails in the East, without a very painful feeling that he has witnessed the loss of many a life whicli might, perhaps, have been saved had the mode of saving it been made more manifest in his time; and this reflection will not be lightened if the surgeon apprehend, when too late, that he had yielded too easy an assent to the doctrines of the day. Owing mainly to statements and facts adduced by Drs. Cameron, Tem- pleton, and Crerer, the question of the treatment appropriate to the ordinary stages and conditions of suppurated liver has to be taken up anew, and from a more definite and precise point of departure, with a view to a more just management by surgical relief An accurate dia- gnosis being of the last importance on general grounds, and a necessary preliminary to success in any surgical action, the following suggestious are offered as helps towards a right conclusion :—(i) The limit of the liver being accurately ascertained by percussion in the state of expira- i