RESPIRATOUY SYSTEM. 131 impeded, or altogether obstructed, the epiglottis is probably the organ chiefly involved. MoissENET and Bouebon'.—On Si/p7dliiic narrowing of the Trachea. L'lJnion, 22, 1864. Gaz. des jffopit., 12, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 122, p. 299. Moissenet had some years previously concluded that syphilitic stenosis of the trachea, after the destruction of its cartilaginous rings, may pro- duce death by contraction of the cicatrix, and that on this account antisyphilitic treatment must be directed by the result, and that gene- rally active measures must give way to expectant when a too speedy cicatrization is apprehended, not allowing the lungs to accommodate themselves to the altered capacity of tlie air-passages. This view was supported by Bourdon in his narration of the case of a female, who appeared to be almost cured by antisyphilitic treatment, but was taken ill one month later with the symptoms of tracheal stenosis, and died speedily, in spite of tracheotomJ^ An autopsy was made. In opposition to this view, Moissenet now lays down the rule, that generally where life is perilled by stenosis, and especially when the kind of stenosis can- not be quite positively diagnosed, specific treatment should be cai-ried out energetically. In support of this view he relates the following case. An old woman, who had suffered a long time with asthmatic complaints, was attacked rather suddenly by considerable dyspnoea. The patient in all probability had previously had syphilis, and now there existed at the side of the trachea a tumour as large as a uut, which appeared to be of a gummatous character. Her condition got worse with the small dose of Pot. lod. which at first was administered; but when it was in- creased, and combined with mercurial inunction, the symptoms soon subsided to their old amount, and no aggravation ensued in the course of 9 months. Moissenet believes that the chronic dyspnoea was pro- duced by enlarged glands about the bifurcation of the trachea similar to the one in the neck, and that the aggravation of it was occasioned by the development of fresh ones. These were dispersed by the remedies, and therewith the dyspnoea. Where peril is imminent tracheotomy must be performed as low down as possible, and endeavours made to dilate the passage. TnuDiCHUii, J. L. W.—On a new mode of treating diseases of the Cavity of the Nose. Lancet, Nov. 26, Dec. 3. This method is founded on the discovery of Prof. Weber, of Halle, that when one side of the nasal cavity is entirely filled through one nostril with fluid by hydrostatic pressure, while the patient is breathing through the mouth, the soft palate completely closes the choaute, and does not permit any fluid to pass into the pharynx, while this fluid easily passes into the other cavity, mostly round and over the posterior edge of the septum nariuin, in some persons also through the frontal sinuses, and escapes from the other open nostril, after having touched every part of the first half of the cavity of the nose, and a great part, certainly the lower and median caual, of the second half. By means of the appli- cation of this principle to the treatment of diseases of the nose, it is possible easily and frequently to wash the nasal cavity, to disinfect and