94 REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. kind of deposits on both mitral and aortic valves in 5. I'hus, the heart was found more or loss diseased in 29 cases; of these, alterations of the muscular structure occurred in 19, in the remaining 10 atheroma alone. Thus, we lind that renal disease was associated with cardiac in 29 cases. In 5 cases both organs were described as healthy. It is an interesting point that in almost all of these there was a history of previous injury to the head. Again, in pursuing the analysis still further, a most marked connection will be found subsisting between cerebral lifcmorrhage on the one hand and disease of the kidneys and of the heart and cerebral and other arteries on the other. Thus, of the 36 cases the cerebral vessels were diseased in 25, and the other large vessels of the body in 14. Cardiac and renal diseases were associated with diseases of the cerebral vessels in 22. Eenal and cardiac diseases, and diseases of the cerebral and other arteries, were associated in 10 cases. Disease of the heart was associated with disease of the cerebral vessels in 24 cases. But of the cases of cardiac disease it must be borne in mind that 15 only were hypertrophied, and of these disease of the cerebral arteries occurred in 10 only. Disease of the kidneys, on the contrary, was as- sociated with disease of the cerebral vessels in 22 cases. From a table which is given it appears that in almost two thirds of the cases the kid- neys, heart, and cerebral vessels, were simultaneously affected ; and it is therefore highly probable that some connection exists between their lesions. Jones rejects the theory that disease of the arteries may be caused by hypertrophy of the heart, causing increased pressure on their Avails, and ascribes it rather to coexisting renal disease, producing im- pairment of nutrition or precipitation of fibrine on their walls. Thompson, T. T.—A successful case of Paracentesis Capitis. Proc. of Med. & Chir. Soc, vol. 4, 1864, p. 377. An infant born healthy 2 weeks afterwards sustained a fall, and 3 weeks later the head was visibly enlarging. On September 25th, 1861, more than 3 months after birth, the head measured circularly, the tape being placed over the parietal eminences, 20 inches, and laterally, en- circling the chin, 21 inches. The iodides and other absorbent remedies were given, and various external applications were made, but the distension continued to increase, and on May ist, 1862, the circvdar measurement was 24I inches, and the lateral 24^ inches. On May 3rd, 1864, the operation of tapping was performed. A trocar, about the size of an ordinary crow-quill, was employed, and introduced through the coronal suture on the left side, about i j- inch from the anterior fontanelle. About 10 ounces of a clear liquid, resembling water, were drawn off, the soft parts forming tlie vault gradually collapsing. The head was then encircled in broad strips of adhesive plaster. First day.— The liquid continues to ooze out; several ounces have thus escaped; slight febrile symptoms. Seventh day.—Fresh strips of plaster applied. Tenth day.—A strong conviilsion ; contractions alternating with relaxa- tions, limited to the right side. Two teeth ready to protrude, the gums punctured, and an aperient given. No return after contnunng 2 hours. On June 9th, 5 weeks after the first operation, the distension being again considerable, the trocar was again introduced, and about 4