REPORT ON SURGERY. 210 not entered the bone. The patient was firm in his belief that there \va-, no ball in the wound. Three months after tlie receipt of the injury, wlien under my care, at the MeDougall General Hospital, the wound showcl no signs of healing; and this fact, together witli tlie thin, dark-coloured discharge, led mo to suspect the presence of some foreign body, other than dead bone, notwithstanding the statements of the patient to the contrary. I therefore introduced one of Ndlaton'a i)robes, and carefully explored the cavity. Removing the probe, and washing off the blood, I found the presence of lead indicated by several marks on the porcelain. Soon after I enlarged the wound, and, cutting down into the tibia on its outer sur- face, found a small opening into the bono, where the ball had entered. With some difficulty, I then extracted from the substance of the bone, where it was firmly impacted, an entire MInie rifle ball, slightly flattened at its apex. I also removed some pieces of dead bone. After this the wound proceeded to heal kindly, and was soon entirely closed. Necrosis had already occurred iu consequence of the presence of the foreign body, but by its removal the further extension of the necrosis was prevented. These cases would scarcely, in themselves, be of sufficient importance to merit a sjiecial record, were it not that they, as well as any others, serve to illustrate the great value of the instrument. The negative evidence furnished by the probe is often as valuable as the positive, for if, upon a thorough and skilful examination of the wound, we fail in obtaining the evidence of lead or iron upon the probe, we are far more confident in asserting that there is no such foreign substance remaining, than we should be after such an examination with the common gunshot probe. After withdrawing the probe, the blood, pus, or other matter should be removed, by carefully passing the porcelain ball through a basin of clean water three or four times; when the marks, if there be any, of lead or rusted iron will be left plainly defined upon the surface of the bulb. Of course, these marks should be carefully removed before using the probe again." J. Moses, swrgical notes of cases of gunsliot injuries occurring during tlie advance of the army of tlie Cumherland in tlie summer of 1863 ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 324).—In regard to wounds of the knee-joint,the author writes,—"It seemed to me that the patients bad not so much died fi-om the injury itself as from timid surgery. A wounded joint within forty-eight hours begins to swell, and becomes tense, shinj', and painful, and soon fluctuation is felt within the capsule and exteriorly. This may be delayed for several days by cold applications. Matters go on from bad to worse; there is discharge from one or both wounds, but which does not relieve the distension. The general system finally succumbs, and after death we find the joint cavity and all the tissues above and below the knee with burrowing abscesses. It is a rule of surgery to give free exit to pus wherever it is detected, and more especially when beneath fibrous and resisting tissues. Now, if we apply this good precept to the knee-joint as soon as we find distinct fluctuation, shall we not save the increase and spread of the pyogenesis ? Shall we fear to freely open the knee-joint ? Arc we not told that shell wounds tearing open the joint are less dangerous than gunshot or punctured wounds ? Are not amputations and resections at the joints abundantly