UEPOUT OX SUllGKEY. ' capsule divided along the ui)[)er aud iiiner side of tlic feiiiiir. Tlie knee being Hexed, the patella is dielocuted over the outer edge of the external condyle. The crucial ligaments arc now exposed and may be readily divided; by strongly Hexing tiio limb, easy access is gained to the ex- ternal lateral ligament. The rest of the operation may be performed in the usual manner. B. Laugenbcck on subperiosteal excision, &c. (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 2). T. Holmes on excision of the elbow in childhood (' Lane.,' j86j, ii, 359). ¥. Wander on excision of the wrist ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 213). A. Eulenburg, reports of six cases of excision of the Jiip (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, 72). T. Holmes on excision of the hip ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 234). Or. M. Humphry on excision of the knee (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 179). T. Hartag, subperiosteal ex- cision of the external malleolus for caries ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 147). AMPUTATION. A. Heivson on Pirogoff's amputation ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 48, p. 121).—The author treated the stump in the fol- lowing manner:—" the flaps were brought together by leaden stitches, and all the ligatures of the arteries, save that at the plantar, were brought out at either angle. No dressing was applied over the wound, but it was left uncovered. The stump was put in a fracture-box, and the weight of a brick, about 4I lbs., was applied by means of a long aud broad strip of adhesive plaster on the back of the leg to overcome all tendency to displacement of the os calsis, by contractions of the muscles attached to the tendo-Achillis." Five cases are recorded: "in all a cure followed rapidly. In two especially, the result was least to be expected. These were the adults, one of whom was a seaman, advanced in years, and who had been lead- ing an exceedingly intemperate life; and the other a soldier, who had been wounded in a battle after long and tedious marching in pursuit of the enemy, and who was operated on four weeks after receiving his ■wound in a military hospital, where gangrene was prevailing to a very great extent at the time. How much the firm aud speedy union of the bones in all these cases was the result of the expedient resorted to, namely the strip of adhesive plaster and weight, to prevent the con- traction of the muscles attached to the tendo Achillis, is a question which we are not prepared to answer. The possibility of such a union not taking place has been the only theoretical objection ap])arently of any importance advanced against the operation. But how far such an objection has been realised in the experience of others we have not been able to ascertain. Our own experience certainly points to its being of little, if any, value. Tor surely there could not be found two more unpromising cases for any operation than those of the adults here reported, aud it is against the operation in adults especially that this objection would seem to have greatest force. The very perfect character of'the union which took place between the bones in Bowers' case, as is to be seen in the specimen which we had the good fortune to obtain after his death, fin-nishes as strong a refutalion as a single instance