461 INFANTICIDE. great measure, from experiment on pregnant animals ; and partly by these means, partly by clinical observation, it has been shown by Schwartz and Krahmer that when the circulation in the placenta is from any cause stopped, even before birth, the immediate effect on the fcetus is the production of a hesoin de respirer, which leads it to make inspiratory efforts exactly similar to those which are normally made only after it reaches the external air. The results of these movements vary according to cii'cumstances. If the child's mouth is, however in- directly, in relation with the external air, this W'ill be drawn in; and it is suggested that this is the explanation of that rare occurrence, the " vagitus uterinus." If liquor amnii be in contact with the foetal mouth that liquid is sucked into the air-passages; and as movements of deglutition are often combined with those of inspiration, it frequently enters also the oesophagus and stomach. Moreover, the liquor amnii often contains portions of vernix caseosa and of meconium, as well as fine hairs from the surface of the body, and therefore these substances also are not rarely detected both in the air-tubes and digestive passages. On the other hand, if no fluid have access to the mouth, the eftect of the respiratory efforts is to draw blood into the pulmonary and other intra-thoracic vessels, and this occurs so suddenly that extravasations frequently take place, chiefly in the form of subpleural ecchymoses. Hence these appearances, and especially the presence within the foetal air-passages of the various foreign substances mentioned above, are evidence that tbe infant was exposed, before the completion ofhirth, to an interruption of the placental circulation, which was very likely to have caused its death. " The great value of these observations, tlaen, looked at from a medico-legal point of view, lies in their affording evidence by which a large proportion of stillborn children may be known to have died during birth, or at least to have been born with the cause of death actively working upon them. Most of the cases of suspected infanticide, in which the child died during birth from natural causes, would be at once cleared up by a careful post-mortem exami- nation, in which attention was paid to these ap[)earances." " There are, however, certain limitations to their value which must not be overlooked. The absence of petechial extravasation of blood on the thoracic viscera is no proof that death did not occur during birth ; for though Liman says that they are always present under these circumstances, this is shown by Bohr not to be the case." Moreover, it is doubtful whether these ecchymoses, when present, are in themselves a positive proof that respiratory eftbrts took place before birth. Hecker thinks they are ; but he is probably in error, for they are sometimes found in infants associated with ecchymoses in other parts of the body, the occurrence of which is not explained by the assumption of inspiratory action. When associated with the presence of liquor amnii, and of meconium in the air-tubes they, no doubt, prove conclusively that respiratory eflbrts took place before birth ; but the two classes of eft'ects are comparatively seldom combined, because blood is drawn into the chest with most force just in those cases in which no fluid finds access to it from without. It must be remembered also that though they indicate that the child was exposed to danger diu'ing