213 l!EFr,EX PARALYSIS FROM GUNSHOT WOUNDS. think, lead us to suppose that in many cases the phenomena in question may be due to a temporary paralysis of the whole range of nerve centres, and that among these phenomena the cardiac feebleness may play a large part, and be itself induced by the state of the regulating nerve centres of the gr(?at circulatory organ. The loss of consciousness, and the appear- ance of a state outwardly resembling syncope, prevent us in most cases from feeling sure that the great nerve centres suffer loss of function primarily and not through want of nutrition from feeble or arrested heart action." The author then alludes to the rarer cases where the patients do not fall when struck, but become insanely excited or almost hysterical, to those where the symptoms are attributable to the shock given to the auditory nerve, and to certain cases of local paralysis due to the mere mechanical effect produced upon the neighbouring parts ; for example, a ball passed along the outer surface of the lower jaw, there was no frac- ture, yet the shock caused complete paralysis of the inferior dental nerve, with absolute antesthesia, analgesia, and loss of sense of temperature in the lower lip and chin of the injured side. In rare cases gunshot wounds cause partial or very general paralysis of grave type and prolon'ged duration in parts not directly injured; these protracted paralyses must be due to an equally permanent affection of the nerve centres. Seven cases are related at length in support of these assertions. " Case I.—The wound involved the muscles of the neck or throat, and the hyoid bone. Hesult.—Paralj'sis of both arms and of the neck. " Case 1.—Fragment of shell; wound of muscles over and external to the right femoral artery. The injury may have caused concussion of the crural nerves, and thus much of traumatic paralysis. Result.—Reflected paralysis of the right arm and leg, and the left leg. " Case 3.—Probable injury of the sciatic nerve (commotion). Besult.— Reflex paralysis of the right arm. " Case 4.—Ball wound of right testicle; paralysis of right anterior tibial muscles and peroneus longus. " Case 5.—Wound by fragment of shell in external side of left thigh ; 'paralysis of tact on a corresponding part of right thigh. " Case 6.—Ball wound, probably involving the crural nerves. Result.— Paralysis of right arm. " Case 7.—Ball wound of deltoid muscle; sensory and slight motor paralysis of same arm. " There is jio evidence in this case that the ball struck the bone or directly injured any large nerves, since even the deltoid itself had nearly full power when the patient was first examined by us. In three of these cases the leg was hit, and the arm of the same side was paralysed. In three cases the paralysis affected the opposite side of the body, and in one the paralysis of tact and pain was observed to have fallen'upon a space symmetrically related to the wounded spot as regards position. No general law, therefore, can be deduced from these records, nor from what we see in the causation of reflex paralysis from disease should we expect to find any inevitable relation between the part injured and the conse- quent paralysis. The constitutional condition at the time of the wounding, as to excitement, mental and physical, may possibly have to do with