57 GENERAL SYSTEM. tissues. Eegavding it as probable that tbe virus localised itself for a time in the "inflamed joints, and that the intensity of the local inflam- mations was a measure to some extent of the amount of poison collected by a species of affinity in the parts attacked. Davies determined to attempt the local elimination of the materies morbi, wherever any external manifestations of its presence existed. He ordered blisters varying in width, but of considerable size, according to the locality, to be applied around each limb, and in close proximity to the parts inflamed, and he hoped to relieve the affected joints partly on the principle of derivation, but mainli/ and really by affording through the serous discharge from the blistered surface a ready means of exit for the animal poison. Armlets, wristlets, thighlets, leglets, or even fingerlets were applied near to, but not upon, every joint inflamed, at the very Tje?^/*^ of the inflammatory stage when the local pains were the most severe, and the constitutional dis- turbance the greatest. The success of the plan depends entirely on the blisters being well applied and allowed to remain until they have thoroughly acted. There is no fear of strangury supervening. Linseed poultices subsequently applied, arc highly serviceable in promoting a sufficient flow of serum. The effect of the blister is to reduce the pulse in force and frequenc}^ and to render the urine alkaline, or neutral, while the heart is exempted from inflammatory mischief. In no case where the heart was sound at the time of admission, did any organic lesion subse- quently develop itself; and in two cases in which soft but distinct mitral murmur was audible, when the patient came under treatment evei'y trace of the sound rapidly disappeared as soon as free and abundant serous discharge had been established. Tables are given of various particulars in 13 cases. Sutton, M.D.—Clinical remarks on cases of ohscure forms of M/ieimatio Fever. Med. Tim. and Gaz., July 2. Sutton relates a case in which the pericarditis preceded the usual rheumatic symptoms by 5 days, and the indica,tions of acute rheumatism were so slight and of such short duration, that they might have been easily overlooked. There was in fact no pain, swelling, or tenderness on pressure in any joint. Chomel, Graves, and other observers have noticed the existence of acute rheumatism without any arthritic symp- toms. Considering these foots. Dr. Sutton asked, is it not probable that we often overlook cases of acute rheumatism, because we only inquire after the leading symptoms of the disease ? He mentioned that he re- membered seeing a young girl who was supposed to have caught cold from sitting in a draught, while she was perspiring. She felt chilly; next day complained of languor, headache, nausea; skin did not feel hot to the hand but very moist, in the night sweated very much, the per- spiration smelled faint, she ached all over. The heart was carefully examined, but nothing particular was observed, excepting that the visible impulse was unusually well marked, and the first sound just above the nipple appeared prolonged. In 3 or 4 days all these symptoms had sub- sided, leaving her simply weak. Six mouths afterwards, Sutton had occasion to examine her chest again, when he heard a systolic murmur over the apex of the heart, which was conducted towards the ano-le of the