VENERBAL DISEASES OF THE UECTUM. 235 day the cedematous swelling is decidedly diminisliing, and the eschar is surrounded by a bright-red zone. The slough separates in from eight to fifteen days, and the wound soon fills with granulations. Pourteen cases are related in support of these statements. It _ is obvious that the local lesions can thus be thoroughly eradicated with greater cer- tainty than by any other method, and the author has never had occasion to repeat the cauterization. When the disease is located near important tendons, nerves, or vessels, the latter may be easily avoided —an advantage not possessed by caustics. M. Batut on malignant pustule ('Montp. Med.,' Dec, 1863). A. Pribram ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 296, 304). Serpent-woimds, ^c.—H. C. Bastian on the structure and nature of the guinea-worm ('Trans, of the Linnean Soc. of London,' xxiv, loi). VEITETlEAIi DISEASES. E. Langlebert, treatise on venereal diseases (pp. 755, Paris, P. Savy). L. Belhomme and A. Martin, treatise on venereal diseases (Paris, Coccoz). F. J. Bumstead on venereal diseases of the anus and recttm ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 247). —The author distinguishes—A. venereal aftections of the integument and mucous membrane, including—ist. gonorrhoea of the anus and rectum. and. Vegetations, due to the irritation of acrid discharges from the genital organs, but not specific in their character. B. —Ulcerations, frequently involving the imderlying cellular tissue, as well as the integument or mucous membrane; and including—ist. The chancroid, with its various complications. And 2nd. The initial lesion of syphilis, or true chancre. C. —Stricture of the rectum, in which the miicous, cellular, and muscular tissues are all more or less involved. In regard to the disease last mentioned, Dr. Bumstead confirms in the main Grosselin's researches, first published in the 'Archives Generales i de Mcdecine ' for 1854. " At the time when all venereal diseases were confounded, this i lesion was commonly called ' syphilitic' Modern reseai'ches, however, have sho^vn that it is not dependent upon infection of the system with the syphilitic virus. Upon post-mortem examination not the slightest trace is found of a deposit of syphilitic tubercle or gummy material, such as infiltrates the tissues in the neighbourhood of syphilitic stric- I ture of the larynx, trachea, and oesophagus. Again, at least half of the patients with venereal stricture of the rectum have never presented any evidence of constitutional syi)hilitic taint; and in those cases in which the two have chanced to coexist, there has been no uniform I correspondence between them; the syphilitic symptoms sometimes belonging to an early, and in others to a late period. " The correct explanation of the etiology of this aflFection appears to be that given by Gosselin—viz., that it is dependent upon chancroidal ulceration situated upon the perinajum, or margin of the anus. Chancroids frequently give rise to an hypertrophied condition of