ANEURISM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 263 distal one. The argument was this :—If a ligature be applied to the subclavian immediately at its origin, more room, it is true, will be afforded for the formation of a distal clot, but then there will be almost absolute certainty of an absence of a proximal one: if now a ligature at the same time be applied to the carotid, it will render a proximal clot, iu the innominate, pretty certain, and the full advantage will be reaped of the greater amount of space aftorded between the origin of the sub- clavian and its first branch. The carotid above the ligature will almost certainly be obliterated." Three cases so treated have been recorded ; they were all vinsuccessfid. From them, from the cases of ligature of the innominata, from those of ligature of the first portion of the sub- clavian or of the carotid, it may be concluded, that both the proximal and the distal carotid clots are pretty certain to form, but that the distal portion of the subclavian will remain open. Ligature of the suhclaviaii, carotid, and verteiral.—The chief obstacle to success being apparently the circulation through the vertebral, Dr. Parker tied it also; death followed on the forty-second day from haemorrhage. The innominate, carotid, and vertebral were closed; the subclavian remained open. Ligature of tlie carotid, siibclavian, and its branches.*—The indica- tions in the treatment of subclavian aneurism by proximal ligature are four. " ist. A practicable and tolerably safe operation ; and. The for- mation of proximal clots; 3rd. The formation of distal clots; 4th. The cure of the aneurism. The first, second, and part of the third are answered by the two operations last discussed. Part of the third, the distal subclavian clot, and consequently the fourth, are not. The in- dication to be met is, then, the formation of the distal subclavian clot." The author thinks this operation both practicable and safe. " As to whether the second and third indications, the formation of proximal and distal clots will be answered by this operation, can best be seen by sup- posing a case in which the operation has been performed. Let such a case be taken, then, in which the arrangement of the arteries is normal, and ligatures be applied in the several positions indicated. Prom the experience derived from former operations, it may very safely be con- cluded that clots will form on the proximal sides of the subclavian and carotid ligatures, that is to say, in the innominata, and on the distal sides of the carotid and vertebral ligatures. In Parker's case the proximal stump of the vertebral had ulcerated away, and therefore it is impossible to say whether a clot had formed or not. It probably had, and that for reasons given on a previous page. There is no reason whatever why clots should not also form on both sides of the mammary, I inferior thyroid, supra-scapular, and trans, colli ligatures. The arteries are comparatively small, no branches are given off near the point ligated, and hence there is nothing to prevent such a result. I have i thought it better to substitute ligation of the three branches of the I thyroid axis for that of the axis itself. If the ligature be applied to 1 the axis itself, there will not only be very little room fo» a proximal clot to form, on account of the shortness of the vessel, but the forma- tion of a distal clot might be prevented by the current which would * Except the sup. intercostal,