400 KEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. many cases to do more than incise the os and cervix. 3. The haemorrha"-e is almost invariably arrested by this incision. ° CABOINOMA. Dr. Graily Hewitt, "On Cancer of the Fundus Uteri" ("'Diseases of Women,' p. 348). Prof. Simpson, "On Carcinoma of the Fundus Uteri" ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' April, 1864). Saxinger, " On Primary Carcinoma of the Fundus Uteri" (' Prao-. Med Zeitsch.,' 1864). ° Dr. Barnes, " On Cancer of the Cervix Uteri, with Lymphatic Ob- struction" ('Med. Times,' i, 1864, p. 35). Prof. Habit, " A case of Recovery from Cancer of the Uterus and Vagina" ('Allgem. AVien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863). I-—Dr. Simpson relates two well-marked cases, in one of which the diagnosis was confirmed by a post-mortem examination, and draws attention to a symptom which he has observed in most of these cases. This is the daily recurrence, usually observed at a regular hour, of intense paroxysms of pain, slight and intermittent, perhaps, at first, but soon reaching a high pitch of intensity, and then gradually passing off. This pain is quite independent of the ordinary lancinating pain usually ob- served in carcinoma. Dr. Simpson sums up the diagnosis of cancer of the fundusuteriwitharecitalof thefollowingsymptoms:—(i) The presence of a constant, profuse, and offensive discharge. (2) Frequent, profuse, and intractable menorrhagia. (3) The presence of a hard, rough, and irregular tumour in tlie cavity of the uterus, detected by the uterine sound, and felt by the finger after the dilatation of the cervix. (4) Re- cognition under the microscope of the morbid structures, as evidence of cancer. (5) The periodic recurrence of the pains above mentioned. 2. —Among 420 cases of cancer of the uterus observed in Vienna only one of primary cancer of the fundus was observed. Dr. West met with two in 120 cases of uterine cancer. Dr. Simpson thinks that out of 30 cases of cancer of the uterus 2 are of this kind. The deposit ma}', according to Dr. Simpson, be observed in the outer layer of the middle coat of the uterus or in the subperitoneal or peritoneal coat, or attacking the whole thickness of the uterine walls, or in the mucous or submucous coat of the body or fundus. In the diagnosis of these uncommon varieties of carci- noma uteri Dr. Graily Hewitt notices tbe'following points :—The patient presents symptoms of uterine cancer ; a vaginal examination fails to give evidence of it; a careful examination of the uterus above the pubes reveals the existence of an irregular, or possibly of a regular, tumour, which may be of considerable size; this tumour, which, in its physical character may resemble a fibrous tumour of the uterus, is distinguished from the latter by the presence of a more or less constant, offensive, and bloody discharge, and some of the constitutional symptoms of cancer. 3. —Siixinger records two cases occurring in Prof. Seyfert's clinique. In both cases the diagnosis was verified after death, and in neither did the disease extend to the cervix. Siixinger deprecates the use of the spe-