269 CONGENITAL TUMOURS. these tumours, aud in many of them the cysts form the greater part of the whole mass; their presence, however, appears to be an accidental circumstance, caused merely by the mode of groAvth. As to diagnosis, the disease may be confounded with degenerated iiffivus or cancer, " The diagnosis is usually not difficult if the surgeon is aware of the general history of congenital tumours. Many of these tumours are quite separate from the skin, and in these cases their hard lobulated feel, and perfect independence of the circulation, distinguish them from nsevus, especially if they are seen at a very early age, when a nrovus of any large size could hardly be reasonably expected to have passed through all its stages of growth aud arrest. But in some in- stances the skin adheres to the tumour, and shows traces of najvus, and the more care is required in weighing the various symptoms and ap- pearances, especially if there be cysts in any part of the tumour. But the great practical consideration is, that the mass is growing rapidly. This proves both that the tumour is not a transformed nsavus, and that it must be removed, since the weakly condition of a young infant cannot afford to support a rapidly growing tumour. As to the diagnosis from cancer, the congenital occurrence of the tumour, and the otherwise perfect health of the child, will usually suffice." In regard to the treatment, Mr. Holmes writes that " the personal experience which I have detailed above, though limited to six cases, is enough to show how different is the course of the disease in different cases. In the first two the growth was so rapid as to prove fatal at a very early period of life; while in the third the tumour had remained nearly stationary for several years. On the strength of this case alone, I would dissuade any attempt at removal in situations involving danger, unless the fact of active growth be established beyond question, as it was in that case, by careful observation of the progress of the disease while the child was an out-patient. On the other hand, those cases in which the whole side of the neck becomes filled up, and the face trenched upon by a rapidly growing mass, in which cysts are developed, are very probably from the commencement incurable, in consequence of the deep position and extensive connections of the disease, even at the time of birth. Again, in some other cases, where there is nothing to be detected except two or more large cysts, with some uncertain solidification at their base, the disease may be a true instance of the multilocular cystic tumour, and the feeling of solidity at its base may be due, not to the presence of any morbid tissue subject to rapid growth, but only to the traction or the pressure of the superjacent cysts. " It would be unreasonable to recommend similar treatment for such different cases. I think, however, that it may be laid down as a rule that congenital solid tumours, when not situated in dangerous positions, had better be removed while they are at their smallest size, since we may not afterwards have them under our own observation, and it is not safe to trust to that of mothers and nurses. In such situations as the neck, where these tumours are far more common than elsewhere, we ' must act according to circumstances. If it be necessary to interfere at : all with the tumour, and the latter be of only moderate size, the choice of removal or of measures directed to the obliteration of the cysts is I