357 GENEIUL ANAT05IY AND PHYSIOLOGY. nothing truly characteristic. They appear only when tlie comparison is extended to a certain number of subjects; but they are not sufficiently marked to impart a well-marked character to an isolated pelvis. (3) The Mongolian and Negro races present an identity which does not permit them to be distinguished. If, then, by an examination of the cranium Ave can divide the human family into three principal races, the examination of the pelvis furnishes only two groups. In the first the autlior places the Aryan and Caucasian races; in the second tlie Mongolian and Negro. (4) In all the racea, contrary to what has been said, the transverse diameter of the brim is greater than the antero-posterior. (5) In the pelvis of the Negress and Mongolian woman the oblique diameter of the brim differs only from the trans- verse by a few millimetres. In the Aryan the difference is a milli- metre and a half. (6) The verticality of the ilia is more marked in the Mongolian and Negress than in the Aryan. (7) In the races the direction, more or less vertical, of the ilia, does not agree with the form of the cranium, but with that of the chest. In the doli- cocephalous Negro, and in the brachicephalous Mongolian, the iliac foss£e have tlie same direction, because the thoracic conformation is the same. (8) In the Mongolian and Negro races the transparency of the iliac fossa; is almost always recognisable, but it is in (jmeral less than in the Ai'yan. (9) The highest point of the crista illii is in all three races at the middle. (10) It is not exact to say that in the Negro race the iliac crest always attains a higher point of the lumbar vertebrje than in the Aryan, but the variations in the degree of eleva- tion are more frequent and more marked. In this respect, as in all the others, the Mongolian resembles the Negress. (11) The pelves of the yellow and Negro races have a less capacity than those of the white race ; they are shallower, and the pubic arch is larger by some degrees. (12) There exists no correlation between the form of the head and that of the pelvis. These conclusions are based upon an examination of 17 pelves of Negresses and 9 of Mongolian women, which are added to the memoir in two tables. 2.—Prof. Breslau has made a series of experiments upon the lower animals, in order to determine how long the foetus can live after the mother's death. He begins by defining "life" and "death" in the mother, as well as in the foetus. Deatli has occurred when the move- ments of the heart have fallen to the minimum, when there is no peripheral circulation, when the respiration has entirely ceased, when instinctive and reflex movements of entire limbs no longer occur. " Apparent death," i. e. a transition from life to death, or vice versa, is sometimes difficult to determine, and is to be diatiuguished from real death in these experiments. "VVIien, therefore, the movements are few, feeble, tlie limbs relaxed, respiration difficult, interrupted and painful, and the circulation feeble, but still to be felt in the umbilical cord, and reflex movements slightly present on external irritation, then the foetus is apparently dead. Twenty experiments are detailed and tabu- lated, made on hares, rabbits, and guinea-pigs; the principal difficulty