TEE/VTMBNT OF ANTHRAX. 251 taken mercury aud who were treated in this way, two had immature dead cliiidren, one a syphilitic child which died at the age of six months, and one child was said, after a year and a half, to be still healthy and without any symptoms of syphilis. i i , 4. The same result was found with this treatment m persona who had previously taken mercury, as with syphilisation. f. The influence of the general health was, with the exception of the pain, just the same as that of syphilisation. Mercuri/.—A. Kussmaul on chronic mercurialism (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 130). H. Lee, unusually severe case cured by calomel fumi- gation (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1*864, i- 389)- E. W. Pollard on the treatment of syphilis by mercurial vapour (' Lane.,' 1864, ii, 116). Prof. Zeissl on absorption and excretion of mercury (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 282). Dr. Diday on the disadvantages of mercury ('Eevue de Therap.;' ' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' ix, 470). ELEPHAJSTTIASIS. Ml'. Fiddes, case of a/)nputationfor elephantiasis ('Trans, of the Path. Soc.,' xiv, 258).—After mentioning the enormous hypertrophy of the dermis, with the fatty degeneration of the muscles, found in such cases, the author states " that the disease never extends higher up than the knee, aud amputation through this joint, or rather immediately above it, making the flap from the gastrocnemius muscle, is that which answers best." He has repeatedly removed limbs so affected, with the happiest results, relieving the patients from a distressing infirmity, and enabling them to get about, and do something for a livelihood. A. Steffen, case of elephantiasis Arabum ('Arch, fiir klin. Ohir.,' iv, 599). ANTHEAX. M. JS. ColUs on the treatment of anthrax hy pressure (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. xxxvii, p. 74).—The author states that the Beat of anthrax is deeper than the skin or subcutaneous cellular tissue. " This any one can satisfy himself upon byi dissection of a single anthrax; or, if sucli an opportunity be denied him, he has only to inspect the cavity of a large one from which the core has been wholly expelled, and to observe what parts are laid bare, as well as to note the deeply depressed cicatrix which marks the site when all is healed. Having done so, let him examine carefully the early stages of anthrax, on the looser skin of the sides, abdomen, eyelid, or any other part where the fascia is not closely bound to the skin by numerous strings and short bands of the corion, and he will find it in all such cases, not only subcutaneous, but deeper still, lying beneatli the lax areolar tissue, and in and beneath the fascia." " Anthrax is essentially an inflammation of dense fascia, in which the superficial areolar tissue is implicated, as in furuncle, and also the deep, as in phegmonoid erysipelas. There is along with, and resulting from this threefold inflammation, a copious exudation of lymph, which agglutinates the inflamed parts into an almost homogeneous yellowish- gray mass, destroying the vessels, and of necessity stopping the circu- lation ; hence a large and rapidly increasing core results. So peculiar