hepoet on toxicology and materia medica. 446 A case of poisoning by strychnia, fatal in half an hour, is recorded in the 'Pharui. Journ.' (5, p. 581). The poison was sent instead of James's powder, from a chemist's shop. The etliereal extract of tlie contents of the stomach gave the colour reactions of strychnia. Tetanic spasms were also produced in frogs when a few drops were inserted under the skin. Composit(E. Santonine.—Dr. Notta draws attention ('Journ. de Chim. Mdd.,' 10, p. Ill) to the fact that santonine, when taken internally, gives to tlie urine the property of turning of a cherry-red colour when it is boiled Avith caustic potass, or even Avhen caustic potass is added to it in the cold. This reaction might easily lead to the conclusion that sugar is present in the urine. No result is obtained with the copper test, and therefore the application of this test will at once prevent any mistake in a doubtful case. Artemisia alsinthiiim.—M. Decaisne has presented a memoir on the use of absinthe to the Academy of Sciences (' Ccmiptes Eend.,' 59, p. 329). His conclusions are as follows:—i. Absinthe produces far more injurious effects than eau de vie of the same alcoholic strength, taken in the same dose. 2. In equal doses it leads to intoxication far more quickly than eau de vie ; both acute and chronic alcoholism show them- selves much more readily under its use. The degree of concentration of the alcohol, usually high in absinthe, must not be forgotten in tliis head. 3. The action of absintlie on the nervous system is more marked than that of eau de vie, and resembles the effects of narcotic acrid poisons. 4. One of the greatest dangers of absinthe lies in the adul- terations to which it is subject, and to which the attention of the autho- rities should be directed. 5. Even in moderate dose and of good quality (say, a glass or two daily) it is not free from ill effects, pro- ducing sooner or later, according to the constitiition, digestive disorder. 6. The taking of absinthe, even in small quantities and of good quality, ought to be prohibited. Oinehonacece. Mr. Howard ('Pharm. Journ.,' _5, p. 342) states that a large quan- tity of the root-bark is contained in the recent importations of calisaya bark from Bolivia. The curly shape in which it is found enables it to be at once recognised. It only yields 8'i4 parts in 1000 of the purified alkaloids, and of these only 3'06 consist of a crystallized salt of quinine, the remainder being almost entii-ely composed of tlie quinidine of Pas- teur. It has, therefore, only about one tenth the value of ordinary calisaya bark. Dr. de Vry, on the contrary ('Pharm. Journ.,' 5, p. 598), says that the root-barks of all the species of cinchona wliich he has investigated contain more of the alkaloids than the bark of the stem. Mr. J. C. Braithwaite finds (' Pharm. Journ.,' 6, p. 280) that the amount of citrate of quinine in specimens of citrate of iron and quinine obtained from makers of repute is often small, even when it is stated