GKNEKAL SYSTEJF. 41 be made, drainage tubes introduced, and solutions of chlorine injected. In doubtful cases wliere there is a difficulty of distinguishing betvyeen septic processes and limited necrosis with reactive inflammatory swelling, Wahl believes ths temperature may afford a guide. In ordinary trau- matic fever it increases rapidly and usually reaches its highest figure, io2°—104° on the first or second day, afterwards declining rapidly. In proo-ressive saniation the temperature continues to rise till the fourth day, and remains at 102°—104°, while the accompanying septic fever becomes at the same time continuous. Among the above group of pyjemic disorders Wahl includes the cases of furuncle and pseudo- erysipelas occurring in the face, and running a febrile, rapidly fatal com-se. The cause of these he believes to be a thrombus produced by any cause iu a vein, Avhich subsequently breaks up and by mingling with the blood induces the septic phenomena. MuncHisoN.—On the isolation of Infectious Diseases. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Peb. 20th. Murchison says the objections urged against fever hospitals and fever wards are two, viz.—(i) That the concentration of the poison increases the mortality amongst the patients themselves; and (2) that the con- centration of the poison increases the danger to the attendants. The validity of these objections, which are too often made without reflecting on what would be the alternative if all cases of infectious fever were admitted into general hospitals may be tested by comparing the results of the treatment of typhus in the London Fever Hospital with those in six of the principal general hospitals of the metropolis in the year 1862. During the first 6 months of 1862, 1107 cases of true typhus were under treatment in the London Eever Hospital, of which number 232 died, or the mortality was 20-9^ per cent. In the same period 343 cases of typhus were under treatment in six of the general hospitals of London, of which number 80 died, or 23-32 per cent. It maybe added that nothing contributes more to a fatal termination in typhus than advanced age, and that the proportion of aged typhus patients is much larger in the London Tever Hospital than in the other hospitals of London, because, a large proportion of them are the aged and decayed inmates of the metropolitan workhouses, and also that a much larger proportion of them are moribund and beyond all hope at the time of admission; 56 of the 232 cases mentioned above dying within 48 hours of tlieir arrival at the hospital. But leaving these elements out of the calculation, inasmuch as we do not possess the actual figures on the other side, the bare fact remains that the rate of mortality from typhus was greater in the general hospitals than iu the hospital specially devoted to fever. The result, however, is insignificant in comparison to what follows. The 1080 (1107 — 27) cases admitted into the Fever Hospital communicated the disease to 27 persons, of whom 8 died. In other words, only i person took the fever for every 40 admitted, and only one died for every 13^. But the 272 cases admitted into the 6 general hospitals communicated the disease to 71 persons, of whom 21 died ; or i person caught the fever for" every 3-8 cases admitted, and i life was lost for every i2*p cases admitted. Murchison admits that it is