llEPORT ON PEACTICAIy JJEUICIXK. so fiiuuabis indica, and tartar emetic bad been given without success, a tobacco enema was administered, and soon afterwards an infusion of tiie same given by tlie mouth, and repeated until, in tlie course of 4 days, ,3 dracbins Avere talcen. Immediately after tlic first drachm liad been given, the trismus relaxed ; and after the third, the tetanus ceased, with the exception of some stiffness of the neck, and some occasional exacerbations. 8he was not fully convalescent for more than a month. Falconer, E. W.—Brit. Med. Journ., April i6th. Palconer relates tbe case of a boy, .-ct. 11, wbo was attacked with severe tetanus, but recovered under the constant application of ice to the spine for 32 days.—Mr. Adams (Lancet, July i6th) records a similar case (traumatic). He had also croton-oil and morphia. Db. Gordon Stewart.—Lancet, July 23rd. Dr. Gordon Stewart records a case of recovery from traumatic tetanus, which supervened on tbe i8th day. It does not appear that the treatment had any material influence. Mb. Tybeell.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. 24th. Mr. Tyrrell records a case of tetanus originating in a very slight injury to the nose of the patient, set. 35. The symptoms supervened 9 days after, and he was brought into tbe hospital on the 22nd. He was then in a state of great prostration ; his teeth clenched, the muscles of expression and mastication rigidly contracted, the dorsal and cervical muscles also rigid. He was conscious, and able to speak a little ; was bathed in a cold perspiration; pulse 95; weak and intermittent. A slight lacerated w^ound was seen on the right ala of the nose, about half an inch in length; it appeared indolent, without disposition to heal. Tyrrell refers to another case of acute traumatic tetanus, treated by him in the same way as this one was (v. Dublin Med. Press, March 2nd, 1864), and states as follows his views on the subject:—As tobacco, or its active principle nicotine, is of service when given internally, a priori it should be more so in peripheral or eccentric tetanus, if applied locally, by paralysing the nerves of the affected part from wdiich the irritation proceeds, and thus removing the cause of tetanic spasms; and that when tetanus arises from a small wound, when a decided impres- sion should be made quickly, a solution of nicotine of known strength, or of tobacco, should be applied to the wound and surrounding parts. And in the idiopathic form of the disease, if the cuticle along the back was raised by a blister, tbe endermic use of the remedy would more quickly bring the cord under its influence, and with less vital depression, than when given internally. In the present case the cuticle was removed from the entire nose, and from about 12 inches square of the back of the neck, and the denuded surfaces were covered with spongio-piline, saturated with a strong solution of Cavendish tobacco. Enemata, containing brandy, ether, quinine, and strong beef-tea, were administered every 4 hours. On tbe 24th, he was able to swallow; ou the 26th, the neck was quite pliant; towards evening he became de- lirious, and his hearing was morbidly acute; 28th, delirium much