194 llEPOET ON 8UEGEEY. Military Suraery.—J. Noudorfer, handbook of military surgery (Leipzig, Vogel). F, Cortesa, theorotico-praotical guide for the army Burgeon in the field (pp. 357 and339, Torino; vide 'Med.Times and Gaz.,' 1864, 1, ,?5°)- -Mr. Little, surgical notes on the campaign in Schleswig, 1864 (' Loud. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 274). E. Gurlt, remarks on the transportation ol the wounded, on the Danish and Prussian bullets, and on shell wounds, with a statistical account of gunshot injuries ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, PP- 253, 265). OPEBATIVE SUEQEEY. T. S. Wells on some causes of excessive mortality after sicrgical operations (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 349).—After citing a number of facts to prove that some of the mortality after surgical operations might be avoided or prevented—in other words, that the mortality is excessive—especially in the large hospitals of large cities, Mr. Wells continues:—"But lessen- ing the number of large hospitals, and increasing the number of small hospitals, and having the wards all on one story, would all be useless if there are too many beds in a ward. It is very possible that a large hos- pital, with large wards and beds widely apart, would be a far better place for the sick than a small hospital in which many beds are crowded into small wards. Indeed, by lessening the size of a ward we multiply the surfaces and angles to which putrescent matters or organic poisons may adhere. And it is extremely probable that we may have to go further than this, and not only lessen the size of hospitals, the number of floors in the building, the number of wards, and the number of beds in each ward, but also isolate the patients in all cases when contagion or infection is probable. Not only must communication of wards with each other be avoided, but there must be separate wards, containing one, or at most two beds, for patients recently operated on, and in lying-in hospitals for women recently confined, before we can hope to reduce mortality from the exces- sive to the miavoidable rate. " Now, to show that these lessons of modern sanitary science are borne out by the most recent discoveries in physiological chemistry, let me turn for a moment to the remarkable labours of Pasteur,—all made known within the last five years. His memoir on 'Alcoholic Fermentation,' in i860 ; 'On the Organised Corpuscles existing in the Air,' and his ' Exa- mination of the Doctrine of Spontaneous Generation,' in 1862; in the same year his ' Studies on the Mycoderms,' and the ' Manufacture of Vinegar;' and in 1863 his ' Examination of the part attributed to Oxygen in the Destruction of Animal and Vegetable Matters after Death,' and his ' Kesearches on Putrefaction,'—have all a very important bearing upon the development of purulent infection and the whole class of diseases most fatal in hospitals and other overcrowded places. " Commencing by purely chemical researches into the phenomena which accompany the decomposition of organic bodies, ]M. Pasteur was soon led into the field of physiology. He found that fermentation was alwa^-s associated with the existence and development of certain microscopic beings ; and he was led to inquire whether the generation of these living coi-puscles was a spontaneous act or change, or whether it could only be