nEl'OIlT ox TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 448 tamed from tlie alcoholic extract of the cotyledons of the seed. The extract is dissolved in water, and calcined magnesia is added till tlio liquid loses its acid reaction and assumes a brown colour. It is tlien gently evaporated, and the moist residue is taken up with filtering paper and agitated with ether till the brown colour of the paper has disappeared. The ether is then filtered, and a few drops of very dilute sulphuric acid are shaljen up with it. The mixture separates into two layers, of whicli the lower is dark red and contains the sulphate of the alkaloid. This is again precipitated by magnesia and extracted by ether, from wiiich the physostigmin is obtained on evajioration. Tlie alkaloid is a brownish- yellow amorphous mass, soluble in ether, benzin, and alcohol, as well as in solutions of ammonia and soda, less readily dissolved by cold water The aqueous solution has a slightly acid taste. Ko ultimate analvsis of it has hitherto been made. It readily undergoes change, and there- fore it is unlikely that it will take the place of the alcoholic extract of the bean in surgical practice ; but it has all the active properties of that drug. Two drops of the aqueous solution, placed in the eye of a rabbit, caused in ten minutes contraction of the pupil, which lasted an hour. It even produced contraction of the pupil when applied to the con- junctiva of a rabbit recently killed. Several cases of poisoning by the Calabar bean occurred at Liverpool on the loth and iith August, 1864. An account of them is contained in the ' Phar. Journ.' (6, pp. 99, 134). It appears that a quantity of rubbish, taken from a ship, was deposited on some waste ground in the town. The children playing near it found in it a number of beans, which they cracked and ate. The quantity taken by each child was from half a bean to six beans. The kernel of the nut was eaten, without the spermoderm. The children were mostly under 10 years of age, and the poison generally produced nausea and vomiting in half an hour. The secondary symptoms—trembling, dizziness, and loss of power in the limbs—came on within an hour. About three quarters of an hour after they had eaten the beans 46 of the children were taken to the Southern Hospital, and were at once treated with emetics. One case proved fatal, that of a child set. 6, who was said to have eaten 4 beans. The emetics given to this boy failed to act, and death occurred from collapse within a quarter of an hour after his admission into the hospital. Purging was among the symptoms observed in this case. On post- mortem examination the intestines contained only a whitish semifluid emulsion, consisting partly of the bean and partly of the mustard which had been administered. The heart contained fluid blood and clot in all the four cavities. The blood itself was noticed to be very fluid. The bladder was empty and contracted. Dr. J. B. Edwards made an analysis of the contents of the stomach and intestines. The alcoholic extract of the fluid from the stomach was further purified by ether, and was then applied to the eye of a rabbit, causing marked contraction of the pupil. A similar extract from the contents of the intestines was dissolved in water and gave the following reactions:—i. With caustic potash a pink colour, gradually increasing in intensity to a deep red ; when chloroform was added it formed a deep-red solution, which separated from the clear-yellowish supernatant