136 KEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. The proposition of old CgIhus, "Differunt quoque pro natur4 loeorum genera niedicina>, et aliud opus est Eomso, aliud in jEgypto, aliud in Gallia," 8till IioUIh good, and in verified by medical history since liis time. DiseascH are certainly no Htable things, no individuals, but very variable pathological phenomena, modified in an indefinite manner, according to various causes which produce them. The combination of many efiective causes seemed in our epidemic to influence tlie malignity of the disease; the heavy storms, the dry and cold air strongly impreg- nated with ozone, all combining tlieir irritant effect on the mucous membrane of the lungs and air-cells, must necessarily make all inflam- mations of the chest organs more dangerous in the high latitudes than they are in Great Britain, or in the countries of tlie same parallel." Hjaltelin gives short histories of 80 cases, of whicli 8 died. Three of these were drunkards, and 4 others were only seen in extremis, when there was no opportunity for treatment. In 4 autopsies the usual changes were found. He relates in a naive and interesting manner the results he has witnessed from hydropathic treatments, which seem to have been very favorable. He had previously, from his own experience, seen reason to moderate the use of the lancet, and subsequently he became well acquainted with all the arguments used in the blood- letting controversy. He details these circumstances to show that he was formerly inclined to no light degree of scepticism regarding the usefulness of bloodletting in pneumonia, and proceeds—"Many cases came in the mean time which convinced me of the necessity of bloodletting in the severer cases of this disease; and those cases were in this our epidemic far more numerous than I formerly would have expected. It is no doubt that it may be a rare occurrence in the warmer climates of Europe to see healthy and strong people so rapidly aff'ected by a pulmonary inflammation that death follows in 2 or 3 days; but this happened very often in our epidemic, and was the general rule when the disease was let alone. I saw several, even young, strong, and healthy people, who, the day before the attack, were at their work with- out any complaint, but who next day were nearly breathless, with all the symptoms of the most acute pleuropneumonia. I know a parish in the interior of our country, with only 300 souls, where 19 persons died thus affected in a very short time. Having been more than 16 years in foreign countries, I never saw any case of pneumonia which could be compared with the common cases of this our epidemic. It is clear to me that medical men who are accustomed to treat the ordinary sporadic pneumonias as they have occurred of late will hardly have any idea of this disease being so acute and malignant as it really was. It would, no doubt, have been a good lesson for the medical men of the nothing- doing treatment to see the ravages of this frightful disease amongst the helpless inhabitants in all the parishes where no medical aid was to be had, and they would have been able to see that their healing process of nature, which they call the natural progress, is in a really acute and malignant occurrence of the disease generally death, and nothing but death. In order to make this clearly out I asked several of the clergy- men of those parishes where little or no medical aid could be had to give me an account of the cases of pneumonia which might occur m