50 IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. proportion of the adult male patients, exactly 20 per cent. Contagion was evident or probable in all cases. The invasion of the disease was usually Avell marked by severe constitutional symptoms, as shivering, frontal headache, vertigo, nausea, vomiting, great lassitude, and mental depression. In some cases it supervened gradually. In some cases the rigors returned during the progress of illness ; in more they were followed by other symptoms of nervous irritation ; as universal soreness, muscular and cutaneous hyperiesthesia, so that the slighest touch pro- duced a wince, and any effort to move gave great pain, and caused the patient to cry out. Such cases proved very severe and protracted. In a number of well-marked cases pain or soreness at the nape of the neck formed the most prominent and distressing symptom at the very outset of their illness, and caused the patients to carry their heads much in the same way as those who suffer from caries of the atlas or axis. The eruption presented usually nothing remarkable; in some children it appeared only as a muddiness of skin; in" some patients it resembled very much that of enteric fever, except that it was never noted to appear in successive crops. In 52 cases where special note was made with regard to abdominal symptoms, there were 40 in whom some form or other of pain and tenderness was present in that region ; and the proportion over all the cases was not much short of this. Usually the tenderness was general, but sometimes local, and in that case commonly substernal, and apparently hepatic. The hepatic tenderness was frequently very great, and most intense over the in- sertion of the right rectus. When well marked, there was usually a tendency to looseness, with yellow stools, and the symptoms were relieved by purges of calomel and rhubarb. The blood dyscrasia was one of the most important phenomena. The blood seems to have been very deficient in fibrine, and in one fatal case, where repeated haemor- rhage occurred from a small bruised wound on the shoulder, it was compared to port wine, and showed no disposition to coagulate. Effusions beneath the ocular conjunctiva were frequent. Sometimes the hsemorrhagic tendency manifested itself also in other parts, where its situation gave rise to dangerous or fatal complications. In the muscles it formed large ecchymoses among the disrupted and dis- integrated fibres, or in the cellular tissue between the layers. Or the ecchymosis might be subperitoneal, giving an appearance to the peri- toneum similar to that of the blotched skin. The bronchial membrane and the lungs might be similarly affected, and severe bronchitis, or pneumonia might ensue. The brain was the seat of effusion—in one case on the surface, producing death, with symptoms of cerebral irri- tation and compression ; in another, into one of the ventricles, but slightly. Stagnation of the blood in the cutaneous capillaries pro- duced various shades of lividity, amounting sometimes to deep cyanosis. In severe cases there was permanent staining of the cuticle, or effusion into and beneath the skin, forming large irregular purple blotches, attended in some instances with a great tendency to gangrene under the very slightest pressure. In 3 cases there was much bleeding from gums and lips. In 4 fatal cases urea was detected in the blood. In i case where tlie heart was very flabby, its muscular fibres were found under