55 GENERAL SYSTEM. cesses, and blisters to the thighs or nape of the neck; then we administer hydragogues, and give nitre in doses of .30 to 120 grains in 24 hoars. DOTVX, J. L.—On the treatment of Scarlet Fever hy sesquicarlonate of ammonia. Clin. Lect. and reports of London Hospital, 1864, p. 159. In the space of 5 weeks, 192 persons out of a population of 440 at the Idiot's Asylum were attacked. There were 6^^ cases of the simple, 78 of the anginose, and 49 of the malignant variety. _ The treatment adopted in every case was the administration of 5 grains of sesquicar- bonate of ammonia in .5] of water 4.fis horis. The diet was milk and beef-tea, while wine was liberally given in all cases in which great de- pression was manifested. JSTine of the 10 deaths occurred among the idiots. No pain was caused by the ammonia even when the throat was ulcerated, fourteen of the malignant cases occurred among the 45 officers and servants, but there was only one death, and this was in the case of an ailing man with a crippled heart. Dropsy with albuminuria occurred as a sequela in 12 instances. Gibson, W.—Experience and treatment of Biplitheria in Camplelton and neigliboii/rliood. Glasgow Med. J., Jan. 1864. Beidger, J.—Diphtheria toith notes of post-mortem appearances in 24 cases, Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 22. Since April, 1862, upward of 3000 cases have fallen under Bridger's care ; very many of them relapses. He describes particularly a certain condition of the auriculo-ventricular valves of the heart, seen in every case where an examination was allowed, whether complicated with any other disease or not, and, as he thinks, not previously made known. It is a roughened, reddened appearance of the valves, as if by interstitial deposit, situated midway between the insertion around the ventricular opening, and its attachment to the cordac tendine£e ; one or both valves being aifected, more or less, according to the severity of the case and the time elapsing between the symptoms of heart-alFection and death. The symptoms denoting this affection of the heart may come on early or late, generally late, several cases having occurred where, to all appear- ances, the patient has been well. It is ushered in, and may be dia- gnosed by tlie following symptoms :—an anxious countenance; hurried respiration; a rapid pulse from 120 to 170; tenderness over the pre- cordial region; scarcely any pain, excepting on pressure. In 4 cases there was a slight murmur at the apex of the heart; in 2 of these it subsided in a week ; in 1 remained permanent for some months, and I case is now luider treatment. Tlie duration of the urgent symptoms varies from 3 to 7 days. The heart affection has occurred in at least 100 cases, and in some it came on so severely, that the symptoms were more like collapse, with cold clammy perspirations, and required the immediate administration of diffusible stimulants very frequently repeated^ 1