SYPHILITIC DISEASE OP THE SPINAL COUD. 245 symptoms broke out in the course of the first month, and generally in the second fortnight of that month, in 112; in 92^cases the secondaries appeared in the second and third months; and in 31 cases only after that date. Hence it appears that a child may be born with the poison in his system, and yet present for a fortnight the outward appearance of perfect health. Others, ou the contrary, have a distressingly aged aspect, and, having already reached the latest stage of secondary disease, are, indeed, at death's door; in most instances they are extremely feeble, and are sometimes covered with pemphigus. When the affection seta in at the usual period, the integument assumes a characteristic dark- brown hue, and at the same time various eruptions appear, together with the special coryza. This chronic irritation of the Schneiderian membrane is essentially different from that caused by cold. The latter usually supervenes two or three days after the infant's birth, and coin- cides with epiphora and bronchitis. Syphilitic coryza at first occasions dryness of the mucous membrane, and impedes the breathing ; a sero- purulent secretion soon follows, sometimes tinged with blood, and con- taining squaraas, which indicate superficial ulceration. The concomitant eruptions generally consist in roseola and psoriasis of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. M. Eoger also points out the frequency of mucous tubercles of the mouth and of the anus. H. Bohn on the transmission of syphilis by vaccination (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 120, p. 97). Disease of the spinal cord, 2}ossibly of syphilitic origin (' Dubl. Med. Press,' 2nd ser., ix, 659).—E. "Winge exhibited at a meeting of the Nor- wegian Medical Society, the spinal cords of two patients, both of whom had suffered from syphilis, been treated with mercury, and had died in the Royal Hospital. In the first, a man, aged 39, paraplegia occurred, bed-sores formed, and he died, appa,rently from thrombosis. The principal disease was found in the spinal cord, attaining its maxi- I mum in the middle of the dorsal portion. A transverse section showed ; that the white substance was almost entirely replaced by a grayish- i yellow, transparent mass, much resembling solidified mucus. In the i cranium a small exostosis on the inside of the parietal bone, and traces ^ ; of osteophytes on the os froutis were found. In the second case, the j changes were confined to the membranes. The patient, a man of 33, had twelve years previously been treated for syphilis with mercury. I He was admitted into the hospital for supposed hepatitis. No relapse '1 of the syphilis had been observed. Whilst under treatment, tenderness I and pains in the lumbar region supervened, with considerable hy- I persesthesia and neuralgic pains in both thighs, finally motor paralysis I of tlie lower extremities, difficulty in passing urine, bed-sores, and, i lastly, obstinate hiccough ensued ; these symptoms persisted until death I occurred from dyspnoea. On dissection, the spinal dura mater was ! found to be everywhere attached to the arachnoid by a false membrane, which, in its lower half, was almost as thick as the dura mater. " The morbid process was in this instance of a more specifically inflammatory character—a meningitis spinalis gummosa; in the first case, on the contrary, it was an atrophy of the nerve-fibres of the spinal cord, with