REPORT ON PUBUC HEALTH. 470 effect on the air is produced when the flax is steeped in running water, or when the water is constantly being changed. There appears to be no satisfactory evidence that either endemic or epidemic disease is ever traceable in Prance to this process as a cause. In Algeria the introduc- tion of the cultivation of these plants is attended with special difficulties in consequence of the scarcity of water at most seasons of the year. FOOD. Dr. E. Smith reports (6th Eep., &c.; Appendix, p. 216) on the food of the poorer labouring classes in England. The plan he adopted was to investigate carefully the mode of living of certain representative men in different occupations. The food of the agricultural population appears to be in some English counties 50 per cent, better than in others, and the labourers in England are stated to be generally worse fed than those in either Scotland or Ireland. Meat.—M. Delpech publishes ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 21, pp. i, 241) a paper on the measly condition of pork. He gives two cases which sup- port the view that taenia in man may arise from the ingestion of raw beef as well as from eating pork. It is possible that the worm in these cases may have been the T. medioeanellata. Mr. Gramgee ('Lancet,' 1864, i, p. 182) relates a case which well illustrates the danger of slaughtering diseased cattle. A bull was taken ill on a certain farm, and a labourer, who had formerly been a butcher, volunteered to kill it. The disease from which the animal was dying is doubtful; it was said to be pleuro-pneumonia, but according to some it was too rapid in its course to be that affection. Eour pigs died after eating part of the viscera of the bull, and two dogs nearly lost their lives from the same cause. The man who killed the bull had previously injured his hand with a spade. Soon afterwards he suffered from intense pain in the hand; inflammation of the cellular tissue extended up to the elbow ; fever of a typhoid character came on, and he died on the fourth day after dressing the carcass. Mr. Gamgee says that this case is by no means a rare one. To his own knowledge four other men have died in the same county, under similar circum- stances, within the last four years. Mr. Kesteven (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' i, p. 265) gives an account of the severe symptoms, resembling those of English cholera, which arose in twelve persons soon after partaking of a leg of roast pork. The cause of these effects could not be made out. The other parts of the same animal were eaten with impunity by other persons. No poison could be detected in the dripping from the joint which gave rise to the symptoms, and the meat appeared to be perfectly healthy. Dr. Bal- lard (ibid., p. 87) gives a table of the chief points to be inquired into in the investigation of cases of poisoning by diseased meat. Vinegar.—M.. A. Chevallier ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 21, p. 86) gives an account of the adulterations of vinegar ordinarily practised in Prance. Out of 24 specimens seized at one time in one department of the country only one was pure and made from wine. Most of the others consisted of pyrolignpous flcid diluted with water, and either left colourless or