230 EEPOUT ON SURGEEY. indeed, of general interest with reference to the geneBis of fever. Admitting that in febrile states of the system some matter, possibly derived from the disintegrating tissues, circulates in the blood, and acts like a ferment; admitting besides that the complex of symptoms which we call fever, should be referred to the action of this poison on tiie nervous centres, and especially on the central organs of the vaso-motor system, the idea at once occurred, to inject the feverish blood itself into other animals, with tlie view of discovering -whether in this way fever could be produced. In respect to septic fever the experiment was brilliantly successful. The first trial showed, that the blood of animals suffering from septic poisoning, is indeed a very powerful toxic agent. On the loth June, 1864, Weber injected into a large and strong cat three drachms of flalcy pus, which emitted a smell of sulphuretted hydrogen, and which had not been filtered. The animal was at once attacked by opisthotonos, then by vomiting, diarrhoea, and very intense fever, with repeated rigors. After a time spasms, then bloody stools, on the third day purulent irido-choroiditis of both eyes, frequent respirations, somnolence; finally on the 15th day, death occurred. There were embolic infarctus in the lungs and spleen, putrid panophthalmitis, and fully developed intestinal croup; a septicajmic pyaemia had thus been produced. An. ounce of blood was taken from the vena brachialis of this animal twenty-four hours al'ter the injection of the pus, carefully deprived of its fibriue, and injected into the crural vein of a little cat. The latter at once emitted a large quantity of urine; the breathing became very hurried, then again slower and deeper; death with violent twitchings ensued after two minutes. On dissection, the hlaclder xoas found to he already again distended tcith urine ; the lungs, liver, spleen, brain, and kidneys were hypersemic. A second experiment was made with two dogs. Three drachms of very fetid serum from pus, which had been carefully filtered through paper, was injected into the crural vein of a large and powerful dog, on the 17th June. The animal suflfered from the complex of symptoms which have been already described as proper to septicaemia—with extreme, but rapidly sinking, fever; it died on the 18th in violent convulsions. An ounce of blood was taken from it a few hours before its death, and defibrinated; three drachms of this were injected into a little dog. The latter suffered, although the injection was performed witli the greatest care and very little injury, from a fever that continued for seven daj's, and that was attended by moderate rigors. Shivering was noticed imme- diately after the operation; it recurred at irregular intei-vals. The only 8ym])toms of septica;mia besides the fever, were great depression, slight retching, loss of appetite, and a little diarrlicea. Finally, Weber mentions that he has also tried as antiseptics the sulphites which have been so strongly recommended by Polli in septic and pya)mic infectious. It was indeed very striking, how a rabbit which had taken six grammes of the sulphite of soda, rapidly recovered from an injection of two drachms of distilled water with half a drop of aqua Iiydrosulphurica; yea, indeed, how the same animal under the daily use of two grammes of the sulphite, could still bear three successive injections at inten'als of four days, the last injection