EEl'OllT ON PHACTICAL MRDICINK. 41. expectoration of viscid, dirty-brown matter, and in some of tlie most malignant cases blood completely dissolved; (3) when the disease was directed to tiio stomach and bowels, producing cholera morbus or colic; (4) when the extremities suffered powerfully with coldness, numbness, and pains. In all these dllferent varieties one common type was ob- served as their basis, thougli veiled by the various modificatious ; and the same treatment was mainly successful. The advent of the disorder is marked in dilferent cases "by an exceeding variety of symptoms; scarce two cases resemble eacli other. Patients are sometimes suddenly arrested in their employment by intense headache and delirium; but more commonly the disease begins with shifting pains in the extremities and joints, headache often of the most atrocious character, nausea, or vomiting, along with a chill, which last, however, soon subsides, and the characteristic delirium and duluess set in. The delirium varies in intensity, occasionally furiously maniacal, generally moderate and quiet; there is extreme restlessness and jactitation. The sensibility of the Avhole surface is sometimes so unwontedly increased that the patient cannot even bear to have his hair touched. There is generally remark- able prostration of strength, and the limbs seem paralysed, and arc numb, and in some cases even insensible; there is deafness, dimness of sight, or even complete loss of vision. A few have convulsions or opisthotonos. The tongue is moist, yellowish, or brownish, never like the red, chapped, beef-like tongue of typhoid. The pulse small, even, thready ; sometimes extinct in very malignant cases, irregular or inter- mitting ; skin cold, and occasionally of a deadly pallor, and like polished marble; eyes glassy, and the pupils irregular in their action, sometimes contracted, then suddenly dilated. When reaction takes place, the pulse becomes feebler, skin warmer, and then there is marked uneasiness, the patient tossing himself about in every direction with delirium; these symptoms remaining 3 days, the patient may be restored to con- valescence, or the disease may advance into stupor, and come to a fatal termination. The intestines appeared in general to be exempt from the effects of the disease. The bladder gives sometimes great annoy- ance, and hsematuria is encountered from the very beginning. Profuse perspiration took place in one case possessing a peculiar mawkish smell. A prominent symptom in one case was inability to swallow. One of the -most peculiar marks of the disease is the eruption, which may occur in all stages of the disease, from the first to tlie tenth day. The spots assume the form of small round ecchymoses of various sizes, from that of a pin's head to that of a split pea, of a light-red coloiu-, like the bites of fleas. As the case advanced the splotches increased in size and coalesced, forming larger ones, or, properly, patches, and in bad cases assuming a livid or purplish colour. Again the form was that of reddish streaks, as if caused by striking the parts with a bundle of twigs. In all cases the eruption was even with the skin, and appeared first upon the extremities, generally the upper, and then over the face and trunk. Tiie duration of the spots varied, sometimes disappearing in 2 or 3 days, at others holding on for a couple of weeks, and then gradually disappearing as convalescence set in ; or becoming larger and deeper on approaching death ; and when this event happened they re-