PHOSPIIOUUS-NECROSIS. 277 acute phosphorus-periostitis of the lower jaw a patient who, after most violent neuralgia in the right side of the lower lip and chin, had circumscribed ansesthesia to such a degree, that needles passed to the bone caused no pain. The prognosis is unfavorable in only the more acute cases. Phos- phorus-caries and circumscribed periostitis, accompanied by a decided tendency to the production of osteophytes and plastic regeneration, may last for years without injury to the general health, and disappear with the removal of the noxious conditions. Even when in such cases a sequestrum is thrown off, extracted, or removed by partial excision of the jaw, little or no deformity or loss of power ensues. AVorse are the cases in which the periostitis rapidly spreads, in which it presents from the very commencement a destructive character, and does not allow the formation of a bony case, which, after the removal of the dead jaw, will preserve the form of the part, or enable the patient to retain the saliva and to masticate. In such cases we must not trust to the disease becoming stationary. Long after the patients have been removed from the exhalations of phosphorus, we see one tooth after another become painful, loose, and finally fall out; and, if we introduce a fine explora- tory trocar at any part of the gum, we find that the periosteum is separated, and the bone extensively bared. It is in these cases that, after removal of one half of the jaw, the periostitis spreads further, and necessitates in time the removal of the other half. Such was the fate of the first exarticulatiou, performed by Heyfelder in 1845—in the case of Margarethe Eumpler, who after submitting to a second operation by Stadelmaun in Nlirnberg died from periostitis of the skull and hectic fever. The rapid extension of the disease, especially to the bones at the base of the skull— the latter may cause purulent encepha- litis—renders the prognosis very unfavorable, and demands early and active interference by the surgeon. As to the treatment, the surgeon may wait in chronic cases for the spontaneous separation of the dead bone, merely extracting loose por- tions, provided the general health does not suffer and the discharge is moderate. In a pamphlet published in 1852,* which has attracted but little attention, Geist has related a case in which, after continuance of the disease for five years, the dead lower jaw was completely surrounded by solid new bone. AVhen the disease is very acute, when the periostitis rapidly spreads, and the general health suffers much from the sanious discliarge, the pain, &c., there should be no delay — subperiosteal resection of the affected part should be at once performed. As the limits between healthy and diseased tissue cannot bo accurately determined, further operations will often be required. The advantages of early operation are— 1. With the dead bone the cause of the ichorous, exhausting dis- charge is removed; the patient gains strength so that he can bear further disease with less danger. 2. The soft parts do not retract so far ; the remaining portion of the • ' Ueber die Regeneration des Unterkiefers nach totaler Nckrose.'