rtKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MKIHCINE. 101. patients, the higher, up to a certain point, will be the per-centage of hereditary cases. In all nervous disorders, convulsive, choreic affec- tions, stammering, &c., Moreau detects a tendency to nervous disease and to insanity that may be transmitted, Renaudin observes it is not at the first step that mental alienation ordinarily becomes the result, and two or three generations may pass, having proteoform modifications of nervous disease, before arriving at the final result—insanity. In examining the condition as to hereditary transmission of the cases Tinder hia observation, Stewart carefully ascertained whether there existed, or had existed, in the direct line or in collateral branches of the patient's family insanity or eccentricity, and, if so, what relative had been aflected. When a cousin in the Jlrsi degree or any nearer relative had suffered from such disease the case was placed in the first hereditary class. In the second class were placed those whose relatives had suffered from hereditary disease not insanity, or in whose parents there was found some disease or condition which had apparently pro- duced the insanity in their offspring. The third class comprises <iie cases in whose families, it was stated, no hereditary disease of any kind existed; and in the fourth class the condition as to hereditary ten- dency was unknown. Of the 901 eases, 447, or 49-61 per cent., belonged to the first class; 49, or 5*43 per cent., belonged to the second; 245, or 27-19 per cent., belonged to the third; and 160, or i77_5 per cent., to the fourth. In 181 of the cases only one relative of the patient was known to be insane, whilst in 266 cases more than one relative had been affected. The results approach very nearly those obtained by Thurnam at the Retreat, with which they may be fairh'' compared when he takes into consideration the insanity of collateral relatives. The per-centage falls far below the estimates of the later French and some English authors, owing to the wider view they hold of what constitutes hereditary predisposition. Question II relates to the numbers of the hereditarily predisposed whose parents, or collateral relatives, were affected. Stewart divides the 447 cases into five classes, according to the propinquity of the nearest relative known to be, or to have been, insane. The first class contains those cases in which mental disease had appeared in the direct line—whose parents or other an- cestors had been insane. The number of these was 215, 127 being male and 88 female. In the second are those whose brothers or sisters had been insane. The number of these cases was 143, males 79 -f females 64. In the third are those having uncles or aunts so affected; their total was 34, males 18 -f females 16. In the fourth, comprising 18 (males 10 + females 8), those with cousins insane ; and in the fifth, comprising 37 (males 19 + 18), those whose near relatives—relationship being un- known—had been insane. Question III relates to the influence of sex in transmitting insanity. "When both parents have been insane it is concluded there is small chance of escape for the offspring; but even in such a case the disease may only appear in some of the children, while the rest may be exempt, at all events from an actual outburst of tlie malady. Esquirol first observed that insanity is oftener transmitted by the mother than by the father, and that the former may also during her pregnancy and lactation communicate disease to her offspring. The