84 HEPOKT on PlIACTICAL MEDICINE. there was a return of some degree of seusation iu tlie penis, bladder, and rectum, during tlio two days preceding death, after it had been altogether absent for upwards of a week. In reference to this, lladcliffe cites a case irom^ M. Laugier, which goes to show that a divided nerve may still traus- i»it impressions if the two severed extremities are placed in apposition. BouEiLLOK.—Gaz. d. H6p., 139, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p- 305- ^ . . Eecords a case of ataxic locomotrice in which great improvement was obtained by the administration of nitrate of silver. The disorder super- vened seven years previously, in consequence of a wetting. He was unable to walk, he had lost the sense of touch, but not that of temperature, and the sensibility to pain was increased. The muscular sense was preserved. Without the aid of vision the patient could not write nor command his movements properly. At times an irrisistible impulse obliged him to advance forwards. i\ll these symptoms improved under the treatment. BoucmjT.—On tJie use of Nitrate of Silver in the Paraplegia of Chil- dren. Bullet. Gener. de Therap., Jan. 30th, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. A child, set. 7, had fallen from the height of a few feet, and im- mediately complained of acute pain in the dorsal region. From this time the child was unable to walk, and when she was placed upright the legs bent and sank down under the weight of the body. The speech became slow, difficult, and indistinct, and the food escaped partly from the mouth during mastication. Por nearly a month only expectant treatment was adopted, but Dr. Bouchut then conceived the idea of treating the paralysis with nitrate of silver. He prescribed gr. ^, divided into to 2 pills, to be taken every day; and this treatment (occasionally varying the dose) was continued for more than a month with success, for at the end of tliis time the child left the liospital per- fectly cured. Bouchut regards the condition in this instance as one of commotion of the cord, and thinks the remedy would not be suitable in myelitis or meningitis. LoCKHAET Clarke, J.—Fathological investiqations in a case of Para- plegia. Brit, and Tor. Med.-Chir. Eev., April, 1864. The patient was a man, set. 49, in general healthy. He had been ill 7 months and had given up work for 5. The motive power of the legs was almost totally lost; seusation was almost abolished in the left leg, but existed in a considerable degree in the right. He died 10 days after admission, suffering with pleuritis of the left side. The morbid changes consisted of streaks and spots of transparent granular degene- ration, patches of more opaque, hypertrophy of the connective tissue, degeneration of the white columns, and the presence of corpora amy- lacea. Tor details of the above alterations we must refer to the original description. Clarke, however, concludes his paper with the remark that his anatomical examination discovered structural changes to which no corresponding impairment of function is recorded in the history. We have seen, he says, that at the level of the fourth cervical nerves, the anterior and posterior commissures, and in some sections the tractus