236 UEPOllT ON SIIROEKY. the neif^hbouriiin; cellular tissue, exhibiting a tendency to contrac- tion. This is often observed in the prepuce in men afiected with chancroids, the preputial orifice becoming so contracted as to occasion partial or complete piiyinosis; in women a similar result is seen in tliickening of the labia. " Now the great proportion of cases of venereal stricture of the rectum occurs in women, in whom a chancroidal discharge from sores upon the vulva readily flows upon the periuajum and anus, and, since this discharge is auto-inoculablc, may give rise to a chancroid of this region. In fact, in most of the cases of this affection, either such a sore, or the cicatrix of one, has been actually found, or the patients have confessed to having had one; and, in three cases on record, stricture of the rectum has been developed under the observation of the surgeon in women who were affected with chancroids of the periniBum or anus, and who presented no evidence of constitutional syphilitic taint. "The symptoms of venereal strictures of the rectum are peculiar in some respects, although not pathognomonic in all cases. Cicatrices, if not ulcerations, are commonly found upon the perinajum or margin of the anus. The lower portion of the rectum, just within the anus, is inflamed, smeared with pus, and often presents the internal openings of fistulffi communicating with the perinaeum. The stricture itself is more constant in its seat than other forms of this disease, and is almost invariably situated at a point corresponding to the upper edge of the sphincter of the rectum, or about two inches within the margin of the anus. In extent from below upwards, it rarely exceeds four tenths of an inch. The obstruction is never complete, and will usually admit the tip of the little finger. The bowels are commonly relaxed. The patients suffer from gastric disturbance, and have fre- quent calls to stool, accompanied by tenesmus. There is a copious discharge of pus, which either oozes away constantly, or is found mixed with the stools. This drain upon the system is probably the cause of the emaciation and depression which almost invariably attend the disease. " Post-mortem examination shows that the stricture is made up of fibrous exudation, deposited chiefly in the cellular tissue, but affecting also the mucous and muscular tissues. The mucous membrane at the seat of the contraction can be detected, thickened, and adherent to the cellular tissue beneath. The dilated portion of the rectum above the stricture is found to be extensively eroded, traces of the epithelium and glandular structure of the mucous membrane alone remaining. It is, doubtless, from this portion proceeds the copious discharge of puru- lent matter. " As to the treatment of venereal stricture of the rectum, no benefit whatever is aff'orded by the administration of anti-syphilitic remedies, as mercury and iodide of potassium. Local treatment by means of bougies and cautious incisions of the stricture, may prove successful at an early period, but, in advanced cases, is only palliative. Every effort should be made to sustain the strength of the patient by tonics and a nourishing diet, and the quantity of the discharge may be di-