REPOaT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 112 seen directly, or can infer indirectly, the pericardium becomes adliereut after inflammation, and, once adherent, nearly always remains adherent. Next, as to the efi'ect of general adhesion of the pericardium on the action of tho heart. The mere fact that there are no certain symptoms by which the existence of general adhesion can be ascertained during life is of itself almost a conclusive argument against attaching any pathological importance to this condition. When there is no accom- panying valvular disease, no thickening of the investments of the heart by earthy or so-called cartilaginous deposit, the heart does not become enlarged in consequence of general adhesion of the pericardium. The requisite freedom of movement is gained by loosening the fibro-cel- lular tissue outside the pericardium; and, tested by its effects on the heart itself, the alternative of moving on a polished serous surface or in a loose bed of cellular tissue seems indifferent. But Avhere the con- necting medium is an unyielding tissue, earthy or fibrous, it constitutes a most serious impediment to the heart's action, and the effect is most disastrous. As to the quality of the disease, Ormerod says none would doubt the correctness of the characters in which under our own eyes, as it were, pericarditis has been drawn; yet I doubt if any one would now describe pericarditis in the same terms as we used to know. True, there are still cases of pericarditis, happily rare, where human suffering might seem to find its extremest limits compatible with life; and chorea in connection with cardiac inflammation is as dreadful as ever. But, whatever the cause may be, pericarditis, as we see it now, is shorn of more than half its distresses and dangers. It is of less frequent occurrence, and the contingent pulmonary affection is less severe; and I am free to express my belief that the cause of this dif- ference is to be found in the general substitution of an alkaline for a mercurial and antiphlogistic plan of treatment in cases of acute rheu- matism. Under the head of endocardial affections, Ormerod remarks, the motion of the blood in the heart probably produces no appreciable sound in the healthy state. In some cases of acute rheumatism, how- ever, and in certain other cases, a murmur of another kind is occasionally audible. It is soft, but not blowing, somewhat i-esembling the so-called muscular sound. It continues equally through all the period of the first sound, being perceptible all over the cardiac region, but not beyond. It does not follow the rules of any specific valvular murmur, nor does it change into one ; indeed, valvular murmurs are less apt to occur in cases where this murmur is found than in others. It does not occur as an early sign in rheumatism, and it passes gradually away. Ormerod be- lieves this murmur to be an exaggeration of the normal blood element of the first sound. Again, the subject of tricuspid murmurs and tri- cuspid regurgitation is another disputed point incapable of solution by direct experiment. He has frequently tried the experiment of distend- ing the ventricles with water, but lias never felt satisfied that the retaining power of the trioiuspid valve was really less than that of the mitral, nor has he seen anything to countenance the theory of its so-called safety-valve function. The obstruction in the veins is the same whether the blood is prevented from entering the ventricle or whether it is re- gurgitated through the tricuspid valve after it has gained admission into