217 iiospiTAT, gangkt;nt;. EETSIPELAS. Dr. Post alladed at the New York Academy of Medicine ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1S63, ii, 123), to the good effects of bromine in cases of diph- theria'and erysipelas. "In the ' Park Barracks,' in Louisville, erysipelas broke outwitli great severity, and the moment that the bromine treatment was introduced, the disease ceased to spread. The remedy was used both in fumigation and as a local application. The surgeons were in the habit of moistening lint with the compound solution of bromine and applying it directly to the part, and covering the whole with oiled silk. Dr. Post saw a number of cases treated in that way where improvement had taken place in a very short time. He was informed by those gentlemen who had charge of the erysipelatous hospital, that in almost all cases, in from twelve to twenty-four hours after the commencement of the treatment, the erysipelas^began to subside. It scarcely in any case continued to spread beyond two or three days ; generally its spread was checked within from twelve to twenty-four hours." HOSPITAL GAIiTGllENE. W. Thomson states (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 393) that "the discharges from several of these cases were examined, to ascertain whether some of the speculative views in regard to the pre- sence of fungi and their influence in producing the disease could be sus- tained, but no fungi were found. The discharge consisted of fluid, gra- nular matter, and debris. The connective tissue seemed to have been broken down into unrecognisable granular material. The fibrous tissue was softened and easily teased out, and in the muscular tissue the striated appearance was lost before the fibrous. No evidence of textural growth was found in the discharges, although the ' piled-up' and thickened margins of the ulcers would probably reveal, on examination, a multipli- cation of the connective tissue-corpuscles, as reported in a similar group of cases at Annapohs, Md., by Assistant-Surgeon Woodward, U.S.A." Dr. Parker believes ('Amer. Med, Times,' 1863, ii, 109) "that the same causes operate to produce hospital gangrene which are necessary for the development of typhus or typhoid lever, but with this addition, the presence of suppurating wounds! Superadded to the effects of bad ven- tilation we have, also, the results of the decomposition of pus and other discharges from wounds. How does this cause operate ? I know that some assume, on the one hand, that it operates locally ; and still others, that it operates through the constitution. Wo all know that smallpox may be developed either through vaccination or by direct exposure to contagion; and I believe that very much the same thing is ti*ue with reference to hospital gangrene. "We may have in some cases the local symptoms showing themselves first, and then subsequently the constitu- tional symptoms and rice versa. Dr. Ball, who has written an inaugural thesis on hospital gangrene, the result of observation during the summer months while engaged in the hospital in the charge of Dr. AVeir, in Frederick, enumerates forty-three cases, in five of which he states that