INDIGO IN PUS. 215 cases in their early stagess, when the causes which first produce the paralysis arc present and before those later nutritive changes occur which, as we presume, are essential to the continued existence of the state of palsy. We have endeavoured to show in this report that the condition called shock is of the nature of a paralysis from exhaustion of nerve force ; that it may affect one or many nerve centres ; and finally, that it may be so severe as to give rise in certain cases to permanent central nerve changes, productive of paralysis of sensation and motion, or of either alone." N. PirogofT, 'General Military Surgery ' (pp. 1168, Leipz., F. C. W. Vogel). E. Sonrier ' Gunshot Wounds during the ItaHan Campaign' (Paris, V. Eozier). Dr. Zeehmeister, • Gunshot Wounds, &c.' (Miinchen). On gunshot wounds ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 120, p. 71). Prof. v. Pitha, case of gunshot wound of the neck ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 51). A. J. Semmes and T. Longmore, cases ('Lane.,' 1864, i, go, 266). G. Basileand Dr. Eipari, the wound of Gen. Garibaldi ('Lane.,' 1864, 1,467). J. Schok, case of wound of stomach, diaphragm, and lung ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 37, 53). J. Moses, cases occurring near Chat- tanooga in September, October, and November, 1863 ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlviii, p. 344). SUPPTTRATION. TV. B. Herapalh on the ocmirrence of indigo in jnirulent discharges (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 338).—After describing the different forms of indigo observed in the urine, the author relates a case in which tliis substance was found in pus. A man with old disease of the knee- joint had a large, tense, fluctuating swelling in the calf of the same leg. " It was punctured, and a large quantitj' of serous fluid poured out, together with some large white bodies, which, at first sight, appeared like hydatids, but were afterwards thought to be masses of fat, as no distinct hydatid structure could be discovered in them." On the 7th September the puncture was repeated, and on the iith the wound was enlarged. Towards the end of the month "he had an attack of violent phlegmonous erysipelas around the kuee-joint, in the leg, and over the calf, which rapidly extended down even to the foot. Fluid continued to escape from the open- ing made in the sac, but it had now a decidedly purulent character, .and the margins of the wound became very red, angry, and inflamed. During the course of the next week or more, evaporating spirit lotions were used to keep down the temperature of the inflamed leg, and several large buUjB formed upon the dorsimi of the foot, upon the calf, and under the ham; from these, on bursting, a sero-purulent fluid exuded in large quantities, and the discharge from the original wound was considerably increased. He had frequent startings and jumpings in the leg, which gave him in- tense agony, and his nights were sleepless unless he had strong morphia draughts, or opium in some form or other. His leg was now so painful and swollen that he could not bear the least motion, and it was kept in one position, on its outer side, upon a splint, and somewhat flexed at the knee. During three weeks he continued in this pitiable condition, and it was during this period that the cloths employed to keep his limb wet