200 REPOKT ON SURGEttY. hospitals, or those lessons so recently taught by physiological chemistry which confirm those sanitary principles—which teach us how easily our patients may bo poisoned by any want of that attention which should always secure the most scrupulous cleanliness and purity of everything surrounding them—and which prove that a knowledge of principles and a practical supervision of details must be combined to enable us to recognise, avoid, prevent, or counteract the causes of excessive mortalily." J. Pac/et on scarlatina after operations (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 237).—Mr. Paget, referring, in the course of a clinical lecture, to a case of lithotomy recently under his care in the hospital, said :—" The boy lately operated on for stone had scarlatina; at least, an eruption exactly like that of scarlatina appeared over nearly the whole surface on the day after the operation, with general febrile disturbance. Two days later, it began to fade ; and in a few days had disappeared, and left him in about the same state that we may suppose he would have been in if no such illness had occurred. All went on well for a month; the wound was nearly healed ; and he was deemed convalescent, when, perhaps in consequence of exposure to cold, he had severe pain in passing urine, and evacuated with it a considerable quantity of blood from the kidneys, and tenacious mucus. Two days after this, he had sore throat; then an eruption, like scarlet fever, again appeared; it continued for three days, and was suc- ceeded by desquamation. The urine in about ten days had gradually regained its natural condition, and he again seemed well. But now whooping-cough set in, and again retarded, though it did not finally prevent, recovery. " If I had never seen a case similar to this, I should have hesitated to call it scarlatina ; for the symptoms of the first attack were very incom- plete, and those of the second were unusual and disorderly. But I believe the case was really one of scarlatina, modified by the circumstances in Avhich it occurred ; and that it may be reckoned with other similar cases in illustration of some interesting general principles. " About this time last year, when scarlatina was very prevalent, I saw six cases after opei-ations in private practice; I have notes of four more that occurred either before or since ; and I have heard of many more. By some, these cases may be supposed to have been only casual coincidences of scarlatina with surgical diseases ; but, if they were so, we ought to find a proportionate number of cases among surgical patients not operated on. But this does not happen. In private practice, I do not remember to have seen scarlatina supervene in any surgical cases, except those in which operations had been performed ; and, in hospital practice, I doubt whether it is much more frequent among all the other patients taken together than it is in those who have been operated on. I cannot, therefore, doubt that there is something in the consequences of surgical operations which makes the patients peculiarly susceptible of the influence of the scarlatina poison. And, together with this susceptibility, we may observe that the disease undergoes in them certain modifications, especially in the period of in- cubation, which is much shortened. In all the ten cases that I have noted, the eruption appeared within a week after the operation; and in eight of them, within three days after it; namely, in two cases, on the first in three, on the second; and in three, on the thud day. Other