TIEPOTIT ON PEACTICAI. MEDICINE, 154 a mauifesfc fissure, 2 or .3 lines long, in the mucous membrane, and passed then obliquely througli the coats for a space of 6 to 10 lines. According to the observations of H. E. Richter,the ova of round worms (Ascarides litmbric.) undergo development in water, and produce a com- plete embryo, wliich moves about, but remains for years in its shell, and is not even killed by being completely dried. These eggs (64 millions of vvliich are produced by one female) are conveyed by insects, worms, snails, &c., to salad-plants, fruit, and other articles of food, and thus come to be swallowed, especially by children of the lower classes. This highly probable view has not, however, yet been experimentally proved. SECllETOnT SYSTEM. E. Mahtin.—Hepatic Diseases in the East Indies. Lancet, July 16. Mahtin, J. R.—Treatment of the suppurative stage of Acute Hepatitis. Lancet, August 20, 27. Martin says when so sad a result as abscess forms the actual issue to acute parenchymatous hepatitis, or to acute congestion of the liver, the treatment resolves itself at once into the medical and surgical manage- ment of a most grave consequent and complication ; the first purport- I iug to calm nervous and vascular irritation and to support the failing powers of the constitution, while the second aims at securing the dis- charge of the purulent fluid, whenever it can be done with a prospect of benefiting the sufferer. Whatever be the direction in which the abscess tends to make a way for the discharge of its contents, our care must be to allay constitutional and local irritation by anodynes, by tonics and alteratives (as the mineral acids with taraxacum or mild bitters), a light but nutritious diet, pure air, and avoidance of exertion—rest, in fact. In the desperate circumstance of extravasation into the cavity of the peritoneum opium repeatedly administered offers the only chance of escape from deatli. With a view to determine what can be effected 1 by surgery, a most careful examination of the hepatic region, often I repeated, will reveal, not only the existence of suppuration, but gene- I rally also its site in the liver, as well as its extent. These circura- I stances, viewed in relation to the general condition of the system, are I the necessary preliminaries to action, and the question for decision is | one of the most grave import. Coming to the subject of mechanical | interference, the tendency which can best be aided and relieved by the surgeon is that outwards, through the abdominal parietes; and when the tumidness and fluctuation are discoverable, and the constitu- tional sympathy in the form of general and local irritation is becoming manifest and urgent, the operation by puncture is reasonable, and bids fair to be successful; with or without evidence of adhesion between the two peritoneal surfaces, it ought not to be delayed. When, on the other hand, the abscess is pointing outwards, and is near to the surface, the constitution being calm and undisturbed, the system not being emaciated or greatly enfeebled, we can afford, all things proceeding kindly, to wait upon nature for the discharge of the purulent matter.