239 EXCISION OF CHANCRES. of the female (Paris, A. Delahaye). 0. Drysdale, treatment of sy- philis without mercury (Lond., Bailliere). H. Kobner, clinical and experimental communications, &c. (Erlangen, Euke). Dr. Hardy, lectures on scrofula and syphilis (Paris, A. Delahaye). W. Miehr, commvmications from Lindwurm's clinic for syphilitic and cutaneous diseases (pp. 112, Miinchen, 1864). . , , . Dr. Sperk on syphilis in Siberia (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr., vi, 254). M. Daga on syphilis among the Arabs (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1864, ii, 158, 287). Dr. Kobner in a paper on auto-inoculability of the syphilitic virus ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1863, p. 483) gives some cases vrhich show that after excision of mucous tubercles the pus secreted by the wounded surface is inoculable on the patient himself. Prof. AValler on the duality of syphilis ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 34, 42). M. Sperino's doctrines ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 226). B. Hill, two cases showing a prolonged incubation, and caused by secondary contagion ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 696). a. Vealeon excision of indurated cliancre ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' x, 13). —" Until an indurated chancre has been followed by enlargement of the lymphatics in the neighbourhood, I am of opinion that it is both justifiable and expedient to obtain the destruction of the part affected by it, for which purpose excision is especially applicable when the sore happens to be seated on any part which, like the prepuce, admits of ablation without detriment or disfigurement to the patient. I make this statement with the utmost possible deference for those observers who aifirm that it is useless to extipate an indurated chancre. I do not pretend to deny that most frequently, when the induration has become manifest, the entrance of the poison into the system is inevitable, and has perhaps already taken place ; but I think it is an error to conclude that the induration is the result of the general contamination and a proof of it. For, if it were so, why should it occur only once ? why should we be unable to reproduce it by a subsequent inoculation ? why should not every superficial solution of continuity occurring at this period also undergo the same process ? and why should it occur only at the site of inoculation ? It would seem to be more probable that the specific induration is a strictly local process, dependent, it may be, upon the conjunction of several conditions ; of which, however, the fol- lowing may be regarded as the chief:—Pirst, the constitution must have been previously free from syphilitic infection. It must not have undergone that kind of leucocytosis which the syphilitic virus produces, [ndeed, every leuksemic state seems to be adverse to the process of nduration: for we find that in women, in whom a chloro-anaemic or leukemic state is more common than in men, the induration of chancres is much less frequent; and it is also observed that a chloro-auoemic state jf the system, however produced, delays the specific induration even in nen. Secondly, a certain degree of activity or concentration of the nrus seems to be necessary; for, according to several observers, the nduration produced by inoculation through the medium of the blood )r with the fluid of certain secondary lesions, is not so well marked as' ;liat which results from the action of the virus implanted directly from