REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 64 the liver, which is most frequently affected ; and to note the state of the kidneys, the presence of syphilitic disease in which often produces albu- men in the urine. Tlie simultaneous disease of several viscera is worthy of attentive consideration ; but the special foundation for diagnosis is, together with the period (tertiary) at which tlie symptoms appear, and the peculiar progress of the numerous manifestations of visceral syphilis, the special cachexia by which these are almost always accompanied. In general the prognosis of syphilitic disease of the viscera is to be regarded as serious in proportion to the importance of the organ or organs affected. Specific treatment, consisting of mercury and iodide of potassium, h:is often been found by M. Lancereaux, when used in proper circum- stances, to remove rapidly serious symptoms, even when threatening a speedy fatal termination. This treatment is useful for syphilitic inflam- mation and tumours, but has no effect on cicatrices. It must not be for- gotten that the prolonged use of these remedial agents is demanded. In this way we may best obviate the tendency to a recurrence of the disease. Chabrtek.—On JSereditary Syphilis. Arch. Gen., Sept. 1862 ; Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 180. Charrier's conclusions are as follows, (i) If a child is born syphilitic, or becomes so in the course of the first year without direct infection, it is absolutely certain that the mother is or was syphilitic. (2) A syphilitic fiither, in whatever period of the disease he may be, never communicates syphilis by procreation to his child unless the mother is infected. (3) The hereditai-y communication of syphilis by the male parent is not yet proved; the mother must be the subject of the disease if the child is born syphilitic. Marowski, L.— On the social relations of Si/jMUs. Deutsche Klinik, 5, 6, 8-IO, 12, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 309. The author's experience leads him to the following conclusions :—(i) Either father or mother who have suffered from general syphilis may beget completely healthy children, even when their malady is not completely cured, and relapses subsequently occur. (2) It is nevertheless very probable that the children of such parents receive a certain morbid predisposition, e.q. to scrofulosis, hydrocephalus, pulmonary phthisis. (3) When botli parents have suffered from general syphilis the probability is considerably diminished that their children will be quite healthy, though the possibdity of it cannot be denied. (4) There is no ground for interdictmg the legal marriage of persons who have suffered from syphilis, though the public should be made acquainted with the possible consequences of such a step and measures should be indicated which may serve to protect their children from inheriting the disorder. (5) Mercurial treatment durin- Di-egnancy has not always any injurious influence on the development ot the embryo nor does it even when fully carried out necessardy induce either miscarriage or premature labour, the occurrence of which is rather to be ascribed to the syphilitic dyscrasia. (6) The milk of a mother who has had syphilis and lias been restored by mercurial treatment is no necessarily injurious to children, it is therefore better that a child affected with hereditary svphilis should be suckled or artificially fed by its motliei than by a healthy nurse. The author offers an hypothesis to the effect