REPORT ON PRACTICiiX MEDICINE. healthy individuals. (3) Parasiticide treatment must be more rapidly 17:J uitcly circumscribed or bounded by a layer of thickened connective tissue. Ilaimorrlmge and pigment formation had not occurred in them, but pigment existed in the more or less hypertrophic intervening tissue. Ciiolesterine was abundantly present in all three instances. Athero- matous degeneration of tlie splenic artery, which is common in old persons, was never found to extend to its branches. Dron, a.— On Si/pliilitic Disease of the JEjnch/dimis. Arch. g6a., Nov., Dec, 1863. Schmidt's Jalu'b., vol. 121,'p. 31. Dron observed in the course of 6 months 16 cases of orchitic disease in syphilitic hospital patients at Lyons. In 14 of these the epidydimis alone was afl'ected. The globus major is the part most often and most considerably diseased. In 9 of the 16 cases both the organs were attacked at the same time, but one side generally in a greater degree than the other. The existence of the disorder often is but little noticed; in the 5 cases where its commencement was observed it is stated to have appeared at the earliest 2, and at the latest 5 months after a chancre. Other secondary symptoms are always present. The disorder yields to treatment, on an average, in about 2 months ; Pot. lod. seems to be quite as efficient as mercury. If left to itself it probably continues for an indefinite time. Stueges, O., M.B.—Bronzing of the Skin in connection with diseased Supra-renal Bodies. Lancet, Nov. 19, 26. Sturges relates three cases, in all of which the supra-renal bodies alone were the seat of disease of any extent likely to interfere with life, and in all the bronzing of the skin was coincident with the first notice of impaired health. In one case the gradual darkening of the integument could be watched almost from day to day as the disease advanced, till near the patient's death, some parts of the body were almost black. Sturges does not regard every case of debility with bronzing of the skin as an instance of Addison's disease, but contends that in cases where symptoms of debility arise and persist which are inexplicable by reference to the condition of any other part of the organism, and which are accompanied by bronzing of the skin, the supra-renal capsules are diseased. He considers it as doubtful, in spite of Dr. Bucknill's case (examined by Dr. Ogle), whether exceptions to this rule ever occur. CUTANEOUS STSTEM. Erasmus "Wilson.—On the Fhytopathology of the Skin, and Nosopht/to- dermata, the so-called Parasitic Affections of the Skin . Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan. 1864. Chaussit, M.—On the so-called acute Parasitic Diseases of the Skin. L'Union, loi, 103, 105, 106, 108, 110, iii, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 44. Chaussit lays down the following as the necessary criteria of the parasitic nature of a disease:—(i) The parasite must be present from the very commencement. (2) It must be shown that its contagious quality depends on the transfer of fungi-sporules from diseased to