llliPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 440 Somo of this, given to a rabbit, produced no poisonous effect. It was suggested for tlie defence tliat the room liad formerly been occupied by a photograplier, and that some of his chemicals might have fallen on to the floor. There was, however, no such stain as would have been pro- duced by salts of gold or silver. Corrosive sublimate was proved to be absent, and cyanide of potassium would have been long before changed into carbonate of potass. These are the chief poisons employed by photographers. Similar experiments were now performed on animals with the alco- holic and aqueous extracts obtained from the stomach and intestines of Madame Pauw. A drachm of these substances mixed killed a rabbit, but so quickly that some accidental complication was believed to be the cause of death. A dog, beneath whose skin about 80 grains were introduced, suffered from exactly similar symptoms to those observed in the dog to whom the extract of the scrapings of the parquet was administered, but this dog ultimately recovered. These effects on animals are very similar to those known to be produced by digitaline. There was also some reason for suspecting that Madame Pauw had taken this substance. M. de la Pommerais had bought from one chemist 46 grains of this substance on the iith and 19th June, 1863, besides 8 grains which he had purchased in the year 1861. But only about 2 grains of this substance were found in his possession. For a homoeo- pathic practitioner he also had a very large stock of several other very active poisons. Some further experiments were made on frogs. The heart was laid bare in three of these animals. Six drops of a solution of pure digita- line, containing '00924 grain of that substance, were introduced beneath the skin of the abdomen of one of the frogs, and another of the animals was treated with about 8 grains of the alcoholic extract of the scrapings of the floor (where the vomited matters had fallen). The thii'd frog was simply left alone, for the sake of comparison. A diminu- tion in frequency and an irregularity in the heart's action were soon observed in the first two frogs, while that organ continued to beat in the third with rhythm almost unaltered. The heart ceased to act in the first two frogs almost at the same time ; and the ventricle after death remained in each case firmly contracted. These experiments upon frogs were several times repeated, and with an unvarying result. The extract of the parquet always produced " a diminution in the frequency of the heart's beats, with irregularity. This was so great that, in spite of the fulness of the slow contractions of the heart, the organ never succeeded in emptying itself completely of blood towards the end of the experi- ment." At the trial of M. de'la Pommerais, M. C. Bernard gave e\ndeuce that these phenomena were well known to be among the principal effects of the action of digitaline upon the heart. The illness which preceded the death of Madame Pauw -was very short. She was quite well and pursued her usual occujjations tho evening before she died. In tlie night she was seized with repeated and violent attacks of vomiting, and with great depression. Dr. Blachcz saw her, and states that she was pale, agitated, and bathed in cold sweats, and that she complained of intense headache, ller pulse