129 hespieatoey system. summary of C. rauvel's original observations. The aphonia depends on a Avhite a3dema, either chronic or intermittent, of the vestibule of the hirynx and vocal cords, preceding or following albuminuria, and more often present without an_y external manifestation to atford even a suspicion of the existence of Bright's disease. This oedema at one time abruptly manifests its presence, and at another slowly, by complete aphonia or slight dysphonia. The first symptom which appears is hoarseness ; the patient neither coughs nor expectorates ; complains only of slight uneasiness of breathing and a little oppression at the chest. Very soon he is obliged to make great efibrts at inspiration, and after some days the voice is wealc and obscure, sometimes altogether lost, and a whisper occurs only with the lips. Dr. Tauvel has seen many patients attacked with aphonia or dysphonia in the best of health, without any other explanation to account for the swelling in the larynx than albuminuria, very sensible traces of albumen being discovered in the urine by the application of nitric acid. MoEELL Mackenzie, M.D.—iVb^es on Laryngoscopy. Med. Tim. and Gaz., March 5th. The author remarks that loss of function, independent of structural disease, might depend on some peculiar condition of the nerve-force, or it might be due to extrinsic disease—that is to sa^', to pressure applied to the pneumogastric nerve or its branches. It was very necessary to recognise this fact, because it liad a very important bearing both on the treatment and the prognosis. Fortunately, it was easy to diagnose between these two conditions; for whilst in true functional aphonia the vocal cords were always both equally alFected, in cases where the loss of voice was due to pressure on the pneumogastric or recurrent nerves the paralysis was almost invariably unilateral. In true func- tional aphonia the vocal cords sometimes scarcely moved at all in phonation, whilst at others they appeared to approximate perfectly. The fact, however, that in functional aphonia the two cords always acted equally afforded a point for differential diagnosis between the two diseased states under consideration. It was only when the pressure was applied to the recurrent nerves in their passage between the trachea and oesophagus that both nerves were at all likely to be afifected at the same time. This sometimes occurred in malignant strictm-e of the oesophagus. When one vocal cord remained immovably fixed it was necessary to make a very careful examination of the chest, as there was every reason to fear the existence of a tlioracic tumour. As an important feature in diagnosis, where the laryngoscope could not be used. Dr. Mackenzie observed that in true functional aphonia the cough is almost invariably natural—that is to say, it sounds perfectly. In aphonia due to pressure on a nerve the cough has always a peculiar metallic ringing sound. In simple functional aphonia the voice is generally completely suppressed, and the patient can only whisper ; in unilateral paralysis the voice is seldom suppressed, but the patient speaks in a shrill, painful voice. Mackenzie warns that an unsymmetrical appearance of the larynx may be produced by an unsymmetrical position of the mirror, and that it is desirable to introduce the latter, first with 9