GENEBAL SYSTEM. 63 with or without alteration of the elements of the organ. In 24 cases Lancereaux found hypertrophy of the spleen in 10, of the mesenteric glands in 10, of the thyroid body in 4, and of the suprarenal capsules in 2. In some cases he has found hypertrophy of the follicles at the base of the tongue, and of the pharynx and tonsils. This lesion of the glands is generally accompanied by modifications in the blood and by cachexia. Fatty, amyloid, lardaceous or fatty degeneration of organs, especially of the liver or kidneys, were found in several cases, but Lancereaux is not disposed to regard them, like the lesions already described, as the direct results of the syphilitic infection. From his examination of individual organs, Lancereaux has arrived at the following results. In the liver he found interstitial hepatitis or cirrhosis in 3 cases ; gummata without cica- trices in I; cicatrices without tumours in 7 ; cicatrices of the surface of the liver with gummata in the substance of the organs in 9. In most of the cases the liver had also become adherent to the diaphragm or to the neighbouring viscera ; but perihepatitis was never found independently of the other appearances described. In the kidneys, among 24 cases, there was interstitial nephritis in 3, the same with waxy degeneration in 2, small tumours disseminated through the renal parenchj'ma in i, cicatrices on the surface with atrophy in .2. The testes were affected in 3 cases. In I there were gummatous masses in both testicles, producing enlarge- ment ; the proper glandular tissue had entirely disappeared. In another there were gummatous deposits in one testicle, and interstitial orchitis in the other; and in the third there was periorchitis. In some other cases atrophy of the testicles appeared to be the result of syphilis. Similar changes were also found in the ovaries. In the brain old gummatous tumours having partly undergone fatty transformation were found in 2 cases. In i case a cyst-like membrane with numerous partitions occupied the greater part of the right anterior lobe. Cicatrices on the surface of one of the convolutions, and a cicatricial fibrous band between, the gray and the white substances were present in one case. In one instance there was amyloid degeneration of the pia mater and softening of the pons Varolii. The lungs presented in 2 cases chronic pneumonia, and deep cavities with smooth regular walls; gummatous deposits in 3 cases; and superficial cicatrices in i. There were narrowing and dilatation of the bronchi in 2 instances; cicatrices and ulcerations of the pharynx (larynx?) in several, and ulceration of the bronchi in i case. The heart presented in 2 cases gummatous tumours disseminated among a fibrous tissue, together with alteration or disappearance of most of the muscular struc- ture of the organ. In i case there was simple myocarditis; and in 2 lar- daceous degeneration. In several instances rapid or sudden death had arisen from the cardiac lesion. The functional disturbances produced by syphilitic lesions of internal organs have no specific character. Each organ manifests its lesion by disturbance of its proper functions; and hence the symptoms proper to these affections vary not only with the organ affected, but with the seat and extent of the morbid change. The •elements of diagnosis must therefore be sought for in the presence or pre- vious existence of the internal manifestations of syphilis, and in the ante- cedents of the patient. It is well in any case to take into consideration the age and other etiological circumstances; to examine most carefully