REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 22 Influence of Bejlcx Action on Secretion.—IJernard, 'Journ. de I'Anat. et Phys.,' 1864, p. 507.)—EeQex actions are of two kinds- producing on the one hand the contraction, on the other the relaxation, of a muscle. E.Kamples of the latter are arrest of the heart in the state of diastole hy irritation of the skin, and the stoppage of the respiration by- excitation of the superior laryngeal nerve, as shown by Rosenthal. (This latter fact explains what M. Bernard had found long ago, that when the throat of an animal is compressed its respiration ceases, even although an opening is made in the trachea.) These paralysing reflex actions seem to explain the mechanism, heretofore obscure, of reflex secretion. By stimu- lating the lingual nerve, as by vinegar on the tongue, secretion is excited, through the chorda tympani, in the submaxillary gland, the circulation in it becoming, at the same time, much more abundant, and the venous scarce distinguishable, either in appearance or in amount of 0, from the arterial blood. There is here a paralysis of the vessels of the gland effected by a paralysing influence exerted on the sympathetic nerve, which normally keeps the vessels in a state of tonic contraction. If all the nerves of the gland are destro3'ed, a continuous state of secretion sets in (after 2 or 3 days, to allow of the degeneration of the nervous filaments contained in the substance of the gland), the gland at the same time diminishing in size, and undergoing considerable changes in its structure; at the end of 5 or 6 weeks, in a dog of average strength, the secretion entirely ceases; then the gland gradually recovers its normal state, the nerves being regenerated. Further demonstration that the phenomena are due to the suppression of the nerve is given by poisoning the gland with curare, -which acts only on the motor nerves. By injecting a few drops into the supplying artery, and opening the vein to allow its escape and avert any general effect from the poison, a state of continuous secre- tion is excited, due to the paralysis of the vessels. The effect may be several times repeated. Injections of water or of irritating fluids have no influence on the secretion. As a contribution to the study of Impairecl Digestion, Dr. 0. Schultze reports 2 cases in which the products of fermentation were found in the vomited matter in cases of ulceration of the stomach from poisoning by dilute sulphuric acid. The first case was a maid-servant, a^t. 20, who ultimately died of inanition, with contraction of the pylorus and hyperemia of the mucous membrane, no large quantity of mucus being present. Tlie vomit presented, besides starch-corpuscles, blood-globules, and epitheleum-cells, numerous yeast and other sporules ; no sarcina. On analysis there were found dextrin, grape sugar, and a small quantity of alcohol, with a smell of fusel oil, removed b}' charcoal. Acetic acid was present, and traces of the volatile fatty acids, but neither butyric nor formic acid. Lactic acid existed in considerable quantity, and probably succinic acid and glycerine. The patient took nothing but coffee in the morning, bouillon with rice at noon, and gruel at night; no alcohol. In another case there were sarcina, yeast-cells and vibrios in the vomit, and on distillation alcohol and acetic and butyric acid were given off. Schultze remarks that the volatile fatty acids arc, in all probability, derived, not from the fat, but from the starch of the food, since all the intermediate stages, dextrin, sugar, and alcohol, are present, and the