NERVOUS SYSTEM. 83 If neurotomy is made near an induced point, the spasm is considerably- lessened, and sometimes appears as if it were cured, but it soon regains its previous violence. In order to see whether this would occur in the present case. Von Gracfe first divided the supra-orbital nerve and the temporal branch of the subcutaneous malar. The spasm was diminished in some parts, but went on iu the zygomatics and the levator lab. sup, muscles. "Within 14 days, however, the whole aspect of the case was as bad as it had been before. On the inferior alveolar nerve being divided the spasm ceased at once and entirely, and did not recur. The gustatory nerve seems to have been divided at the same time. The patient felt no inconvenience from the extensive anaesthesia of the cavity of the mouth, the chin, the lower jow, the temple, and the forehead. J. W. CotrsiNs, M.D.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Feb. aoth. Records a case of acute myelitis, occurring in a male, set. 36, after exposure during a wet night. There was pyrexia, spinal tenderness, general hypersesthesia, most marked on left side of body, and loss of power over both legs, which were frequently drawn up by spasmodic reflex movements. The left arm and both legs experienced gnawing sensations. No loss of power over arms or over sphincters. With bel- ladonna, ergot, local blistering, and subsequently Pot. lod., he recovered in about a month. The same physician also records the following in- stance of chi'onic myelitis limited to the cervico-brachial region. A widow, aBt. 49, had in April severe neuralgic pain over right shoulder and down the arm. She improved under treatment, but in May she sulfered from intense hypersesthesia down the right arm, especially over the biceps and dorsum of the thumb; the left was only very slightly aftected. There was also increased sensibility of the right cheek, Avithout any change in the pupil. Hypersesthesia was marked on the right side of the spine as low down as the middle of the back, and over the left leg. The lower cervical processes were tender on percussion, and a warm sponge applied to them caused intense pain. There was a constrictive sensation round the chest and pain in the cervical and occi- pital regions. Pulse small and feeble; lately she had become weak. She said her arms were weak, but there was no perceptible alteration in the voluntary control or reflex movement of either the upper or lower extremities. With belladonna and ergot internally, and blistering to the cervical spine, she got quite well. Radcltffe, C. B., M.D.—Lancet, Dec. 3rd. Eccords a case of acute and very extensive myelitis, terminating fatally in 10 or 12 days. The motor and sensory paralysis extended up to a line drawn round the body four inches below the ensiform carti- lage, licflex movements were absent. No pain was produced by per- cussion of the spine or applying heat to it. Priapism was marked. The urine remained acid throughout. There was retention of urine. At the post-mortem examination the meninges were found normal, but the whole substance of the cord, from its brachial enlargement to its inferior termination, was found of a yellowish-red colour, and softened to the consistence of cream. Tlie natural structure of the cord was alto- gether broken down, and the debris mixed with blood-corpuscles, exuda- .tion-granules, and some pus-corpuscles. In spite of this disorganization