878 llEl'ORT ON JIIDWIl'EIlYj ETC. children, but related ouo case in vvliich the second child was not born imtil six weeks after the first. abkohmal presentations. Dr. Christie, " Observations on Shoulder Presentations of the Fcetus " (* Ed. Med. Jour.,' July, 1864). Dr. A. E. Simpson, " A Case of Complicated Labour, with remark.^ on the Postural Treatment of Prolapsus Punis, &c." (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' April, 1864). « Dr. Christie directs attention to a class of cases which appear to have hitherto been little noticed. Naegele* divided shoulder presentations, according to the order of their occurrence, into two, viz., the first position of the shoulder, in which the back of the child, compared with its anterior surface, is turned more than twice as often to the anterior wall of the mother's abdomen; and the second, in which the same surface is turned towards the posterior Avail. In either of these positions Naegele teaches that the head lies towards the one or the other iliac fossae, and the body in an oblique direction over to the other side, the presenting shoulder forming the most depending part of the fcetus. In the great majority of cases this is true; but some cases occur in which the shoulder is the presenting j)art, and yet the body of the foetus does not lie in the transverse direction to the extent generally assumed. It may be stated that wherever the long axis of the foetus corresponds to the long axis of the uterus, no matter Avhether it be the vertex, the face, the breech, or the feet, which present, experience shows that labour, as a rule, terminates without any in- terference ; and " in all cases of shoulder presentation, in order to^ make labour possible, the foetus, whether matiu-e or not, must under- go a change into the longitudinal position or be subjected to dismember- ment. This may be effected iu the foUowiug ways:—(i) By rectifi- cation of the foetal position; (2) by spontaneous turning; (3) by spontaneous evolution; (4) by the technical turning by the head, the breech, one or both feet and one or both knees; and (j) by the de- capitation of the foetus, or by embryotomy or its evisceration." t But another means of effecting this has been almost wholly over- looked. Smellie,^ in speaking of the difficulties which may be en- countered in presentation of the shoulder, contrasts the round form of the uterus, contracted close to the fostus iu the usual condition, with another state of the organ in which it resembles " a long sheath," with the child lying in it "lengthways," the head being " reflected over the pubes to the right shoulder and back, and the feet and breech stretched * 'Lcbrbuch der Geburtslmlfc Heidelberg,' 1844, p. 222. t Uraun, ' Lebrbuch der Gcburtsbiilfe,' Wien, 1857, i). sy;. X 'A Treatise on tbc Tlieory and Trnctice of Midwifery,' 4th edit., vol. i P- 334-