hepout on suegery. 358 and exit of the ball from the subjacent tissues. The indurated mass which surrounded the vessels and nerves was now cut into, and the median nerve being discovered where it entered, was gradually laid bare and dissected out, so that it lay perfectly loose in the wound for an inch and a half or two inches of its length. It was thought best not to divide the nerve, but to await the result of the healing of the wound. The edges of the wound were loosely approximated, and water dressings applied. Tor some days the pain was entirely relieved, although from the effect of the habitual use of morphia, a small dose- was required to promote sleep. As the wound began to heal, however, the pain returned, but was much less severe than before. Desiring now to return home, one of his family was instructed in the use of the subcutaneous injection of morphia. About two months afterwards he called on me, and again (March 20, 1863), four months after the operation. He was then in a state of perfect health, and bad gained much flesh, but complained still of neuralgic pain in the hand, requiring the employment of the narcotic injection, whether from habit or not seemed to be a question. The arm, hand, and fingers had begun to acquire some motion. In regard to the local effect of the injections it may be said, that although they had been used twice a day for five months, he had never suffered from any irritation at the point of puncture, except in one instance, in the case of a freshly prepared solution of sulphate of morphia, the use of which was followed by the production of a large red blotch whenever it was injected. On sub- stituting a solution of acetate of morphia no further trouble of this nature was experienced.* The patient had, therefore, had nearly three hundred injections of morphia, more or less, and, with the above ex- ception, no traces remained of its protracted use. Oct. 26, 1863.—I have just seen this patient, and find that he has recovered his health, and enjoys complete immunity from pain. The hypodermic injections were continued until the month of July, or about nine months from the receipt of the injury. He then by a great eflbrt suddenly dis- continued them, and has not used them since. The neuralgic aflection, except diu'ing extreme changes of the weather, has left him. The forearm has recovered its natural sensibility; he has the power of complete flexion of the elbow, and of partial rotation of tlie forearm, while the fingers, which were formerly held in a state of extension, can now be approximated to the thumb, so as to make the hand useful for most of the ordinary purposes of life. This motion is continually im- proving." D. D. Gilbert on neuralgic affections after injuries of the nerves ('Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. Ixx, p. 340). A. von Graefe, case of neurotomy (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 199). Prof. Schuh, cases of operation for facial neuralgia ('AVien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 385, 401; ' Spit. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 73). Prof. Eemak on facial spasm ('Berlin Klin. Wochenschr., 1864, pp. 209, 231, 229). * Tliis accident is probnby to be explained by the common practice of adding free Bulphuric acid to promote the solubility of certain specimens of suljiliatc of morphia. The acetate is very soluble iu water.