ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 449 liquid. 2. Strong siilplmric acid produced a red colour, with tbe separa- tion of a resinoid coagulum. 3. Sulphuric acid, with crystals of bichro- mate of potass, gave a violet colour, changing to red. 4. Sulphuric acid and biuoxide of manganese produced the same effect, the purple tint being retained for a long time. 5. Solution of iodine in iodide of potassium gave a yellow colour. 6. Terchloride of gold gave a yellow colour, with reduction of metallic gold. 7. Caustic ammonia struck a yellow colour, which, after exposure to the light for some hours, turned green, and finally deep blue. A few drops of this extract, inserted beneath the skin of a frog, killed it, producing paralysis, with complete flaccidity of the limbs, and insensibility to external irritation. Two mice were also paralysed and killed by it, and it caused contraction of the pupil when applied to the eye of a rabbit. This was the only case which terminated fatally. Two other children were extremely ill; they are said to have suffered from severe griping pains, in addition to the symptoms mentioned above. That the effects were not more serious was ascribed partly to the fact that most of the children had had their dinners shortly before eating the beans. Dr. Edwards remarks that, though circumstances favoured the detection of the poison in this case, yet, had the purging been more severe, so as to expel the contents of the intestines and stomach, there would have been no evidence that death did not occur from cholera. Dr. Cameron publishes a full account of these cases in the ' Med. Times and Gaz.' (1864, 2, p. 406). He states that in some of them effects were observed within 5 minutes. The loss of muscular power was the prominent symptom, and was one of the earliest, preceding the vomiting in some instances. Vomiting occurred in all the cases except 8, and nausea was absent only in the one which proved fatal. Diarrhoea was present in 15 cases, but was not severe, and was often observed only during recover}'. Pain in the abdomen, on the other hand, was in every case experienced at first; but afterwards there was a remarkable freedom from suffering. The pupils were perfectly normal in most of those cases in which their state was observed. In 3 they were contracted, but in one of these the contraction existed only during sleep, and on rousing by the stimulus of galvanism the pupil became of the natural size. In the 2 other children this was not tested. Cerebral disturbance was present in 2 cases ; giddiness, double vision, and ocular spectra, being the symptoms. The child who died, notwithstanding his prostration, was sensible a short time before he died. That the bean has the effect of impairing muscular irritability would appear from the fact that the muscles of his neck, chest, and arms, responded but very feebly to the stimulus of galvanism, employed in the hope that the heart's action was not completely arrested. PapaveracecB. M. CI. Bernard (' Comp. Kend.,' 59, p. 406) relates some experiments which he has made on animals with the alkaloids of opium. In these investigations he generally adopted the method of subcutaneous injec- tions ; and he is so much struck with the superiority of this mode of bringing an animal with certainty under the influence of a drug, that 29