REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY ANU MATKUIA MKOICA. 452 therefore, does not depend on its being originally prepared in a state of dilution with water. In whatever way it may be made, dilute hydro- cyanic acid tends to decompose in the same manner under the influence of light, the only difl'erence being in the time required for this change to take place. Portions of the acid, prepared by different methods, ■were exposed to the direct light of the sun for an hour. Gay Lussac's acid began to turn yellow in j minutes ; at the end of the hour it was quite brown. Pessiua's acid, on the other hand, remained colourless. Both were then placed in the dark ; the acid of Gay Lussac quickly became turbid. That of Pessina began to change at the end of a month, and after six months it was quite opaque. Chemical analy- sis showed that there was then no trace either of prussic acid or even of cyanide of ammonium, as might have been expected, in either liquid. This proves that changes, set up by the influence of light, may not be apparent at the time, but may go on long after the fluid has been again placed in darkness, for dilute hydrocyanic acid which had never been ex- posed to light was found to remain unaltered at the end of six months. In a second paper (' Journ. de Chim. et de Phar.,' 4^;, p. 289) they explain why it is that Gay Lussac's process does not yield the amount of hydrocyanic acid which is obtained by calculation. It appears that the bichloride of mercury in the residue has an affinity for the hydro- cyanic acid, which renders it fixed at the temperature ordinarily em- ployed. The addition of sal ammoniac, in equivalent proportion, how- ever, sets the acid free, and the quantity then obtained is 95 per cent, of the theoretical amount. Brandy.—Dr. Taylor (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 1864, p. 190) records a case of poisoning by brandy, in a girl, aet. 7. Death occurred in 12 hours. The mucous membrane of the stomach presented patches of intense redness, and was in some places thickened and softened. Portions of it were detached and hanging loosely in the stomach, and there were patches of black extravasation in it, evidently produced by altered blood. There had been no alcoholic smell in the breath of the child four hours after taking the brandy, and the greenish contents of the stomach also had no pecu- liar smell, but slight traces of alcohol were detected in this fluid by distillation. The vapour readily reduced chromic acid. Petroleum.—Dr. R. "Weinberger (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 4, 40, 1863 ; ' Schmidt,' 121, p. 34) relates two cases of asphyxia by petroleum vapour, probably the first instance recorded of poisoning by this substance. A day-labourer got over into a large vat, the upper edge of which was only about two feet from the roof, in order to cleanse its floor from the sedi- ment of petroleum, which covered it to the thickness of about half a foot. After a short time he fell down insensible, and the same fate befell another man, who got into the vat in order to help him out; and the only way which could be devised of extricating them, was to make a hole in the bottom of the vat, which took half an hour to accomplish. The two men, who were both about 40 years old, and strong and healthy, were found in a state of complete asphyxia; their faces of a bluish-red colour, their eyes fixed and glassy, and their pupils contracted and insensible to light. Some parts of the skin, especially those on which they lay in the vat, were nuicli reddened. No pulse