90 REPOnT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. Tremors, twitcliings, couvulsious, rigidity, and spasms—one or more of these symptoms supervened in 14 out of tlie 40 cases. In 4 two or more of tlieae symptoms were observed in the same jmtient simultaneously or a,ltcrnately, but not necessarily affecting the same parts. Thus, in one case there were tetanic spasms and tremor affecting the whole body, while there existed, at the same time, persistent rigidity of both arms. In others spasms and rigidity were confined to one side, but there were convulsive affections of the whole body. Tremor was noted in 4 of the 14 cases. It affected the parts paralysed in 3, and in the other was general, while the paralysis was confined to one side. In .3 of the cases the clot was situated in one or more of the ganglia at the neighbour- hood of the base, in the other it was situated in the substance of the right middle lobe, but to such an extent and so near the ventricle as completely to obliterate it. Thus, we find that the clot existed in close contact with the origin of the motor nerve-fibres in all the cases. Again, in 3 cases the clot was confined to one side of the brain, in 2 of which tumours wore general, but in the other this symptom wa.s con- fined to the opposite and paralysed sides. In the other case the clot was situated in the central parts of the pons Varolii, and the tremor was general. In 2 of the cases there existed softening of the parts around the clot; in the other 2 it is distinctly stated there was no soften- ing, lu the former two the tremor was slight and occasional, and in the latter this symptom was more severe and continuous. There seems to be a decided connection between the urgency of this symptom and the duration of life ; for in the two cases in which it was severe and general in its extent the patient lived but 4 hours, while in the other two, in which it was either unilateral or bilateral but slight, they lived as many days. Muscular ticitchings were only observed in two cases. The side opposite to the paralysed one was affected in one, and the hand in the other; the muscles of the face and the eyeballs alone were men- tioned as being paralysed in the latter. The clots in both cases were situated in the meshes of the pia mater, over the cerebral hemispheres; in one there was also some blood in one of the lateral ventricles. There was no softening around the clot. The patient lived 2 days after the supervention of this symptom. Convulsions were noticed in 7 cases; the time at which this symptom supervened varied from an hour to 18 days, and after the appearance of this symptom the attack proved fatal in from few hours to 17 days. In one instance the patient recovered, but was readmitted for another and fatal attack. Of the 6 cases in which the parts involved by the convulsions were noticed they were general in 2, in each of which the paralysis was confined to the right side; in 2 the convulsive affections were limited to one side ; in one of these the paralysis was on the opposite side, and in the other it was general. In another case the convulsions affected the muscles of the face, but the paralysis was confined to the left arm and leg. In the other case the bauds were the site of these movements, and the muscles of the face alone the parts paralysed. Thus, there does not seem to be any connection between the seat of the paralysis and the parts affected by these convulsive movements, except this, that the^ are not generally observed on the side paralysed where this is partial, ^^hat is tbo