29 NEUVOUS SYSTEM. The ganglia inferiora caunot be experimented upon separately from them, and have, most probably, the same function. The corpora quadri- gemina are not excitory, but further results were not attainable. The cerebellum—(i) is the' co-ordinator of voluntary movements; when it is destroyed, the animal moves irregularly and often rotates. (2) It has a connection with the sight, continued convulsions of the eye of the same side following its injury. Greneral prostration results least from destruction of the cerebral lobes, more from that of the cerebellum, still more from that of the laminae opticse; it is very great after destruction of the ganglia interna, and instantaneous death with convulsions follows that of the medulla oblongata. Eeuzi's experiments on reptiles were made solely on Rana esculenta. The brain consists of—(i) the 2 cerebral lobes. (2) The thalami optici. (3) The optic lobes, two smooth, round, hollow eminences, on which the optic nerve spreads out into two roots. The portion sur- rounding the cavity is termed the lamina optica. (4) The cerebellum, a simple transverse medullary strip. (5) The medulla oblongata. The brain proper, the superior layers of the laminse opticas, and the cere- bellum, are neither sensitive nor excitory. The deeper portions of the thalami as well as the optic lobes are excitory, the latter in a high degree. Moderate or powerful contractions ensue upon a second wound of these two parts, according as those which preceded have been violent or slight. The deep parts of the optic lobes are sensitive as well as excitory, as also are the upper and posterior fibres of the medulla ob- longata. The cerebral lobes are the seat of intelligence, but Eenzi denies Flourens' statement that their removal destroys the sense-per- ceptions. If one cerebral lobe alone is removed intelligence remains, even if somewhat weakened, and the sensibility, spontaneous motion, and instinctive activity, sufier no disturbance. But the intellectual per- ception is lost in respect to the eye of the opposite side. That is, when the right side of the cerebrum is removed in a frog, and the right eye is rendered blind by evacuation of its fluids, the animal remains quiet, it exhibits no fear on being approached, threatening motions made towards its left eye do not disturb it; it seems, as Flourens thought, to be blind. But if an object is placed in front of it, and it is excited to movement, it avoids the obstruction, moves away from it, creeps under it, or passes around it, in a way that proves that the left eye still has perception. When successive layers of the cerebrum are removed from above downwards, or from before backwards, no consider- able diminution of intelligence ensues until a large portion has been lost, and it ceases entirely only when not the least fragment remains attached to the crura. But division of the crura is the same as total destruction of the lobes. The thalamus opticus has strictly no relation to sight, which is unaffected by its section unless the optic tract or the crus of the cerebrum is involved; but its section induces a transient rotatory movement towards the uninjured side, or alternately towards each side, if both are divided. If deeply pierced with a fine needle general convulsions ensue. The thalami are the organs of intellectual or spontaneous movement; being the point at which the excitor fibres of the spinal cord come into relation with those of the cerebrum. The