297 CAIUKS OF 'J'llK BONKS OF THE SKULL. velocities generally make apertures many times their own size, irregular in shape, with fissures radiating from, and fragments of bone adherent to, tlieir edges. Tliey have also a great tendency to present depressed fractures, consisting of three or four triangular pieces of bone driven in at their apices, but still usually adherent, more or less, by their bases, to the skull; in fact, they produce very similar wounds to those that are made by a hammer whose striking surface is about the size of a shilling; and it is in these cases that the dura mater so often protects the brain, and entirely prevents the fragments being driven into that organ." Mr. Teevan discusses the reason assigned for the comparatively greater size of the aperture of exit, and proves experimentally that none of them can be admitted. The following proposition explains the real cause:—"The aperture of entry is cait,sed hy the penetrating hoch/ only, whilst the aperture of exit is larger than the aperture of entry, inasmuch as it is made by the penetrating instrument plus the fragments of hone driven out of the proximal tahle and dijiloe." P. G. Hewett, clinical lecture on caries and necrosis of the hones oj the sJmll ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 205, 239).—The two diseases very frequently co-exist—caries in one part, and necrosis in another of the same skull; or they may lie side by side on the same bone. More commonly, however, a cranial bone is affected by one of these diseases alone. Both diseases sometimes follow a low form of inflammation and suppuration, which may have arisen in the cranial bone without any apparent cause, or followed some injury. But in by far the greater number of cases, these diseases are connected with scrofula, and much more commonly still with syphilis, and the careless administration of mercuiy. In describing syphilitic disease of the cranium, the author says :— " But, laying aside the question of the eftects of mercurial cachexia upon the osseous system, there is stUl another difficulty as to these so-called syphilitic skulls. Are there any characteristic signs by which we can recognize syphilitic disease of the bones of the skull ? Given a diseased skull, are we at present in a position to say that the disease was of venei'eal origin ? Some of the best of modern pathologists would, I know, answer in the affirmative ; but of the correctness of their views, I must say tliat I have all along had very serious doubts. The features said to be characteristic of the venereal origin of the disease may be clearly marked in a skull, the history of which tells us that the patient had never suffered from syphilis The frontal aud tlie parietals are the bones of tlie skull which are said to be most commonly affected with syphilitic disease ; but in all the skulls in wiiich the disease is undoubtedly of venereal origin, it will, I think, be found that the basilar bone and the front part of the foramen magnum are also, to some extent at least, affected. And this is just what we might have anticipated, if we recall to mind the frequency with which the soft parts covering these bones are involved in secondary syphilis. The diseased appearances to which I refer are a thickened and tuberculated condition, with excessive vascularity of the under surface of the basilar bone and front part of the foramen magnum ; and in some cases I have even found this portion of the