EXCISION or THE LOWER JAW. 299 " But iu every case of diseased bone of the skull, especially must we bear in mind that by active surgical interference we may lead the patient into those very dangers which, by operating, we hope to save him from. I have seen the application of a single crown of trephine followed by in- flammation of the membranes of the bi'ain and death. " We are then to be veiy careful how we interfere surgically with such cases, but medically we may do much good; and for this all medical treatment must, as a matter of course, be based upon the peculiar con- dition which in each ^individual case may have led to the bone becoming diseased. In every case great care must bs taken to keep the patient up by every possible means, and especially must great care be taken to avoid, as far as may be, every risk of erysipelas, and other liabilities which I have enumerated." S. Smith on contusion of the skull-bones (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 35, 49). J. Ashhurst on injuries of the head (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 48, p. 17). Dr. Guttenberg on •depressed fractures ('Arch, fur Idin. Chir.,' iv, 592). T. P. Pick on trephining, &c. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 543)> -A-- Goschler, case of recovery after fracture of the base ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 298, 306). A. M. Edwards, cases ('Glasgow Med. Journ.,' xii, 58). M. Morand, depression without fracture, post-mortem examination (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 529). W. D. Spanton on collodion in hernia cerebri ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 268). M. Broca, two cases of traumatic aphemia, &c. ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1864, p. 107). F. H. Hamilton on gunshot injuries ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i,-6i, &c.). H, Eaphael, case of Pott's abscess of the brain, trei^hining, necrosis, and removal of the right parietal and part of the frontal bones, recovery, (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 47, p. 414). J. h! Hutchinson, case of hernia cerebri (1. c, p. 423). JAWS. Trof. Langenheck on the means of i^eventing disfigiwement after ex- cision of the loioer jaio ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1S64, p. 19).—Scarcely any operation renders the patient more unsightly than this, and not only is the distortion permanent, but it even increases with time. When the whole jaw has been removed, and this operation has been by no means rare since phosphorus-disease became of frequent occurrence, the lower lip and chin recede so far back that they are in the same plane with tlie larynx; the profile is thus shockingly altered; speech is rendered diffi- cult; mastication becomes almost impossible, and thus the general nutrition is seriously impaired. Almost as bad are the effects of removing the central portion up to the angles. When one half only of the jaw is disarticulated, the face sinks in more or less on that side, the mouth becomes obliquely placed, and the remain- ing half of the jaw is drawn towards the affected side so that its teeth are directed towards the palate, and thus mastication is much impeded In some cases indeed, for reasons unknown, the deformity just mentioned does not ensue. If a still smaller piece, including the whole thickness of the bone is re-