UEPOUT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. feeble and sensitive class. In addition to the defective hygienic con- ditions of the workshops, whicli he thinks ought to be inspected by the Government, he notices as causes of disease the prolonged main- tenance of the sitting posture and the want of exercise and of regular meal times. Ho says tliat tailors usually sit with the back straight, and that the chest is seldom contracted, except in some of the younger men. He was surprised to find so few instances of roundness of the shoulders among them. The duration of work in the shops is about 12 or 13 hours daily. Another source of injury to the operatives is the irregularity of in- come, which is probably irremediable, as it depends upon the varying wants of the public with the different seasons of the year. This leads to recklessness and unsteadiness of character. It occurs chiefly in the higher classes of work, that called slop and sank work being much more regular, but of course much less highly paid. The difference in the price paid for labour by the private shops and by the large advertising shops is very great, and appears to benefit the employers rather than the public. Frinters.—Dr. Edward Smith reports on the sanitary circumstances of printers in London (6th Report, &c. ; Appendix, p. 383). He states that the peculiarities of this occupation belong, among the adults, chiefly to the readers and the compositors. The former are generally men of some acquirements. They usually live in the suburbs, and breathe at home a tolerably pure air, besides the advantage of the walk to and from their work. They carry on their occupation in closets, which are almost always ill-ventilated and very small. These men are commonly "pale and thin, of a depressed and anxious aspect, A'ery sensitive to the influence of temperature, of a nervous and irritable temperament, with a dainty yet not a bad appetite, an imperfect digestion, and a liability to headache, giddiness, and afiections of the eyes, which assume the forms of inflammations, short sight, or blindness. Many also complain of much general debility and exhaustion, lassitude, and piles. Some suffer from prolapsus of the bowel, and from bronchitis; but consump- tion is the goal towards which they very generally tend. There are, however, some who are of moderately full habit, with good complexion and good appetite for food. The yearly mortality is i to 44 living." Compositors work in rooms occupied by several men together, which are usually dirty and very badly ventilated. The allowance of air is ordinarily 4^0 to 600 cubic feet lor each man with his gas-light. The air of these rooms was analysed, and was found to contain a quantity of animal matter larger than that of private dwellings and 8 times greater than that of the open air. The time during which compositors labour is vai-ious, the work being divided into night-work and day-work. That which is exclusively night-work appears to be preferred. Tiiese men leave the office at 3—5 a.m., and return to it at 4—6 p.m.; and they thus have 2 or 3 hours to themselves in the middle of the day. Many of them work on for 20 to 30 years, and say that it is not injurious to their health. The men who work during the day are liable to extra work at times, wliicli is admitted on all hands to be pre- judicial. In some cases they undergo 2 days and i night of continuous