PREGNANCY. 361 PE.EGNANCT. L;me James E., " Pregnfincy after Closure of the O3 Uteri by operation for Vesico-Uterino i'istula" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ''Scanzoni, Prof., "Pregnancy without Immissio-Penis" ('Allgvn. Wien. iled. Zeit.,' 1864, No. 4). . Eouth, 0. H. F., M.D., "Diagnosis of Pregnancy from Utermc Fibrous Tumours" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, i8j). Annan, Mr., "Protracted Gestation" ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' March, T864). Simpson, Dr. A. R., "A Case of Protracted Gestation" ('Edm. Med. Journ.,' April, 1864). Braun, Prof, "On the Vomiting of Pregnancy" CWochen. der Zeitsch. der Aerzte in Wien.,' Nos. 47, 48, 1863). Kidd, Dr. G. II., " On a case of Vomiting in the eighth month of Pregnancy" ('Dublin Quart. Journ.,' Aug., 1864). I.—Mr. Lane's case is one of much interest. The patient, who stated her age to be 4_5, was first admitted into St. Mary's Hospital in May, 1862, with a fistula,—the result of a protracted labour,—which had been established between the bladder and the canal of the cervix uteri, about half an inch above the os. Prom the position of the fistula the only safe and feasible plan appeared to be to close the os uteri by a plastic operation, leaving the fistula itself uninterfered with, and depending upon it to afford an outlet through which the menstrual fluid could escape into the bladder. The operation was successfully performed on May 14, 1862, the patient having been told that future pregnancy would be impossible. The incontinence of urine was completely arrested, and she left the hospital well in 3 weeks. Menstruation came on about a week after the operation, and the discharge took place through the bladder without pain, and recurred during the three fol- lowing months, after which she ceased to meusti'uate. Pour months after, she had perfect control over her urine, and the os uteri appeared closed, but there was a tumour in the hypogastrium, like the en- larged uterus. It was thought that the iistula had closed, and that tlie menstrual fluid had accumulated iia the uterus. On January 10, 1863, it Avas determined to reopen the os uteri and allow the accumu- lation to escape. A few drops of blood only appeared on tlie puncture being made, but a large quantity of watery fluid escaped during the same day. On the second night after this she was talven ill, and a f(ptus of about four months' date was expelled. Tlie watery discharge wliich followed t])e puncture M-as probably, therefore, the liquor amnii. The patient recovered well from her miscarriage, but irom the reopening of the 03 uteri the urine escaped as before the first operation, thus proving that no change had occurred in the condition of the fistula. She left the hospital after this, but soon returned, with an earnest desire to have the original operation repeated. This was done in the same way as before, and witli the same result. She continued to menstruate regularly through the bladder for six months after the operation. It