126 REPOltT ON 1'llA.CTICAL MEDICINE. Dr. Stokes also relates several cases of fatty degeneration in which the pulse was not slow. AVe have, indeed, all met with cases of the moat marked fatty degeneration, in which the pulse has not been below the healthy standard. In Dr. Ogle's communication two cases of fibrinous degeneration are recorded, and in one only was the pulse slow, while other examples of the same condition of the heart are reported in the ' Pathological Transactions' which equally show that there is no necessary connection between slowness of pulse and this form of de- generation. Both kinds of morbid change must materially impair the power of the left ventricle, and the blood being thus only feebly im- pelled into the aorta, the pulse at the wrist will ordinarily be weak, and frequently also irregular and small. Two cases of slow pulse re- lated by Dr. Stokes are instances of aortic valvular disease, and in one related by Peacock the same condition existed, but in some of the most remarkable cases of slowness on record there was no evidence of any valvular disease of the heart. It was supposed by Mr. Mayo that slow- ness of pulse depended in some cases on general depression, exhaustion, and reduction of strength. He cites two cases in proof:—In the first, a young lady, in consequence of suffering from a neuralgic affection of the face and throat, was advised by her medical attendant to abstain from taking food by the mouth, and was supported by nutritive eneraata exhibited 2 or 3 times daily. In 4 days symptoms of fever gupervened; in a month the catainenia, which had been suppressed for 9 months, re- turned, and 2 weeks after, the pulse suddenly sunk from between 70 and 80 to 3^. In the other case a medical student, after having sat up for 6 nights in attendance upon a patient, found his pulse rapidly fall to 35, and, though it rose again to 40 in a few days, several years elapsed before it reached the healthy standard. It is by no means un- common in convalescence from acute febrile diseases for the pulse to fall below the natural rate, and remain remarkably slow for some time. This is especially the case in convalescence from severe uncomplicated typhus. The pulse which, during the active period of the disease, may have ranged from 112 to 120 or upwards, falls, as convalescence ad- vances, to 70, 65, 60, 50, or even 45 and 40. This slow rate it will re- tain for some time, and then, as the patient uses more exertion, it often again rises to 110 or 100, and in the upright position even to 120, and lastly sinks gradually to the healthy standard. These changes Peacock has been in the habit of pointing out to the students of St. Thomas's aa being the natural process of recovery in tjphus, provided no serious local complication occur to interfere with the ordinary course of the disease. Similar changes may be observed during convalescence from other acute diseases, especially diphtheria. Peacock does not agree with Mayo, that slowness of pulse may be dependent on general ex. haustion. Such a state ordinarily is attended with a very opposite character of pulse ; under such circumstances, indeed, the left veutricl acts feebly, irritably, and rapidly, and the pulse is quick, small, sharp, and generally feeble. In cases in w^hich the rate of the pulse is un ■usually low during convalescence from severe disease, it is not durin the stage of greatest exhaustion that the rate begins to fall, but durin the period of recovery, and the diminution often continues and increas