18 EBPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. pneumogasfcrics ; the effect of which operation is to cause the air to enter the lungs much more abundantly and forcibly. (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 122, 1864, p. 27.) V. FUNCTIONS or THE SKIN. Villemin's conclusions, drawn from two prolonged series of experi- ments upon cutaneous absorption, by means of simple and mineral baths, are the following:—The fact of the absorption of water is put beyond doubt by exact determinations of weight, which show that after a tepid bath of from 30 to 41; minutes the weight of the body for the most part remains stationary; in about a third of the cases it undergoes a slight diminution, generally much less than that which occurs during the same time in the air. Absolute increase of weight after a bath is still more rare and slight. Chemical analysis shows that in a tepid bath the cuta- neous exhalation still continues. The absorption of water does not seem to be affected either by the composition or by the density of the liquid employed. It varies chiefly with the physiological conditions. The absorp- tion of iodide of potassium is demonstrated by the analysis of the urine when as much as 1500 grains have been dissolved in the bath ; with 450 grains no iodine is found in the urine. After a simple bath the urine, even though previously acid, generally becomes alkaline; after an alkaline bath it mostly retains an acid reaction. After a simple or mineral bath the density of the urine is almost always diminished. (' New Experimental Researches on Cutaneous Absorption;' ' Archiv. g6n. de M^d.,' May, 1864, p. 513.) TI. DIGESTION AND SECBETION. The intestinal Mucous Memlrane.—D. W. Donitz has re-examined the structure of the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal, with the view of casting further light upon the mode in which the absorption of fat takes place in the villi. His results are chiefly negative; they tend to show that—(i) The epithelial cells of the intestinal mucous membrane are closed on all sides by a membrane, and are for the most part regular six- sided prisms, which contain about their centre a nucleus with nuclear corpuscles. (2) The so-called basal seam is a secretion of the cells, not always present, and its decomposition is indicated by a transverse striatiou. This striation has been sometimes taken for pores, sometimes for rods. (3) The epithelium is separated from the parenchyma of the villi by a vitreous membrane exhibiting no pores (the limiting lamella). (4) The smooth muscular fibres run parallel to the long axis of the villi. Trans- verse or oblique fibres do not exist. (5) Nor are there any anastomosing connective-tissue-corpuscles. (6) Large fat-globules are foi-med in the parenchyma and cells of the villi only by means of mechanical force, and arise from particles of fat, which are extremely fine, so that they are not singly visible. These particles penetrate the parenchyma to the central space in some unknown manner, but not through pre-existing paths. (7") An independent wall of the central chyle-vessel, though on other grounds probable, cannot be demonstrated, ('Keichert und Du Bois Eeymond's Archiv,' 1864, Nos. 3 and 4.)