J 1 \ REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. BT JAMES HINTON, M.E.C.S., AUBAL StJKGEON AND LECTUEEE ON AtTEAL SUEGEEY TO GUY'S HOSPITAL. I. CELLS, ELEMEKTAUX OEQAITISMS, AND BLOOD. W. PKETEB("On Amoeboid Blood-corpuscles," 'Virchow's Archiv,' vol. 36, p. 417) affirms, from observations on the red blood-corpus- cles of frogs and salamanders, that in the normal condition those of the latter (if not of both) possess a membrane which encloses the nucleus and the proper substance of the corpuscle. This latter consists of dissolved colouring matter (liEemato-crystallin) and of a colourless matter (protoplasma), which, both in connection with the colouring matter and apart from it, exhibits under certain conditions a contractility like that which is observed in many of the lower organisms. Hackel (' Kadiolarien,' Leipsic, 1862, pp. ioj-6) affirms that the blood-corpuscles of many invertebrates put forth processes precisely like the pseudopoda of the Amoeba, and by means of these absorb into their substance coloured par- ticles from the surrounding fluid. This observation Preyer confirms, and states further that the colourless blood-corpuscles and lymph-cells of Batrachia behave in precisely the same way ; and that they, as well as the blood-corpuscles of the Tnvertebrata, are membraneless masses of pro- toplasma, most of which contain one or more plainly visible nuclei. Pig- ment-containing cells are in some cases formed by the same amoeba-like process ; contractile masses of protoplasma taking up and enclosing within themselves free particles of colouring matter. This Preyer has seen in effusions of blood artificially caused in the lymph-sac of the fx'og or salamander. Thus, too, Preyer believes, are formed the blood-corpuscle- containing cells which have given rise to so much discussion. He has seen the red corpuscles of the blood of Batrachia cast-off fragments, which retain their colour; sometimes this takes place to such an extent as to leave the nucleus surrounded merely by a narrow ring. The cast-off por- tions arc embraced and taken up by contractile colourless cells, in which tlic small particles reunite into larger masses. He has frequently seen the form, size, and number of the contained " blood-corpuscles " vary when watched during a short period, and finds no difficulty in believing that the same processes of division and reunion of the coloured corpuscles,