147 DIGESTIVE SYSTEif. I may obliterate the pain altogether; in other words, the pain is pro- portioned to the stretching. The time at which the pain is felfc is entirely consistent with this explanation—it is at the moment the larynx is drawn up; and equally consistent with it, and with no other, is the production of a certain amount of the same kind of pain by taking a deep inspiration. Here, too, the windpipe is stretched ; but the fixed and movable ends are reversed to what they are in swallowing. In treatment no regard is paid to the dysphagia; the state of the windpipe alone was considered. F. A. Bullet.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., July 30. Eecords a case of hard nodulated tumour of the tongue, apparently of a cancerous nature, which disappeared after existing 2 or 3 months under the use of Galium Aperinum. The dose given was about 6 grains of the solid extract ter die. Fenwick, S., M.D.—On the condition of the Stomach and Intestines in Scarlatina. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc, 1864. The object of this paper is to prove the following propositions :—ist. That the mucous membrane of the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines, is inflamed in scarlatina. 2nd. That desquamation of the epithelium of these parts takes place. 3rd. That notwithstanding the anatomical changes in the mucous membrane of the stomach, the formation of pepsine is not prevented. 4th. That the condition of the skin is similar to the condition of the mucous membrane in scarlatina. In support of the first proposition, the microscopic conditions of the mucous mem- branes of the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines, were detailed in 10 cases of death from scarlatina during the first week of illness, and in 6 cases who died in the second and third weeks of the fever. The first effects of the scarlatina poison upon the mucous membrane of the stomach were shown to be congestion of the blood-vessels and the stripping of the epithelium from the tubes and the surface of the organ, and also the softening of the tissues. The tubes are greatly distended by granular and fatty matters, or by small cells intermixed with granules, and in some cases they are lined by newly formed mem- brane. Sometimes no normal cells can be distinguished; in other cases they are present, but are scattered irregularly. After the second or third week the tubes are found less distended than at an earlier period; and whilst their closed ends are still loaded with granular matters, which greatly obscure the gastric cells, these become more evident towards the surface of the mucous membrane. The cells at this period are sometimes very large, sometimes loaded with fat or coated with granules, and seem to have but little adhesion to their base- ment membrane, as they readily separate from the tubes, but adhere closely to each other. The effects of the inflammation upon the intes- tines seem in slighter cases to consist in the eff"usion of granular and fatty matters into the mucous membrane; but.in more severe cases the tubes of Lieberkiihn are obstructed by epithelial cells, whilst extravasations of blood take place in the villi, and these, with the rest of the mucous membrane, are loaded with small cells and granules. In