806 IIEPOIIT ON SURQEllY. ao.uto periostitis causes so considerable a protrusion of tlie eyeball as in this case (more than 6"'), it is always attended with suppuration, and, on account of the danger of its terminating in diffused caries of tlie orbit, an incision or an exploratory puncture deep into the orbit must not be delayed. On the contrary, if we are dealing with a simple exu- dation into the cellular tissue, it is not only better to delay any opening in the hope of resolution occurring, but allowable even if its termniation in suppuration has been already made out, that we may choose the most appropriate place for the opening, whether in the conjunctiva or in the skin. It is true that periostitis of the posterior parts of the orbit, which alone could cause an exophthalmos of this kind, commences generally with acuter and more widely spreading pains than inflamma- tion of the cellular tissue, in which the pain only begins with the pro- trusion, and only becomes distressing as the tension increases. But we cannot depend on this symptom in our diagnosis, for it is in this as nearly all cases, too much dependent on the individual tolerance of pain. We gain by far more reliable e^ddence from a careful examina- tion of the swelling, and by estimating how far the skin and cellular tissue are simultaneously involved. In simple inflammation of the cellular tissue the swelling surrounds the posterior hemisphere of the globe generally pretty equally, and extends in the natural direction of the cellular tissue. The protrusion is also mostly forwards in the direction of the axis of the orbit. Pressure against the roof itself of the orbit, as far as we can still reach, is but little felt; pressing the globe against the cushion of fat causes pain. In suppurative periostitis the secondary participation of the cellular tissue concentrates itself l><rincipally in the vicinity of the diseased spot, surrounds the posterior hemisphere of the eyeball unequally, and accordiugly often presses the globe more on one side; then the impairment of mobility is more marked in certain directions, less so in others; the pain on pressure extends forwards along the bone, on which accoimt pressing the finger against the roof of the orbit gives pain, even in front, some distance away from the seat of the suppuration. INIoreover, the skin and sub- cutaneous cellular tissue become more slowly involved than in genuiue inflammation of the cellular tissue. Here the skin of the upper lid, as the protrusion advances, becomes generally intensely red, or even of a dark red, whilst in periostitis it remains longer unafl:ected, or only covered with a rosy tinge. Finally, we must mention that in periostitis, in which only gradually infiltration of the cellular tissue supervenes, the consecutive protrusion of the globe develops itself more slowly; in genuine inflammation of the cellular tissue, on the contrary, more quickly. For all this the diagnosis is sometimes uncertain, as a narrowly circumscribed periostitis may serve as the point of origination of a vast infiltration of the cellular tissue, when it naturally loses its own characteristics amidst the symptoms of the latter." J. H.Knapp, case of exophtlialmus from orbital empliysema ('Ophth Eeview,' i, 84). A. Eothmund, case of neuroma of tlie optic nerve, &c. (1. c, p. 162), and case of enormous hypertrophy of the lachrymal gland, &c. (]. c, p. 163). Exophthalmic goitre—y. Graefe ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 158).