REPOUT ON SUllGERY. 848 dilutions of nitric or muriatic acid, continued for Home weeks after the operation. Dr. KUen on calculus vesicw and Us treatment in Itmsia. ('Arcli. fiir klin. Cliir.,' vi, 78).—The author has collected the cases which occurred during many years at the Moscow Clinic, and in i860 f^ave an account of the results in an essay on lithotrity, written in the Eussian language. There are few countries, perhaps none, where stone is so common, as towards the centre of European Russia ; the inhabitants of the land watered by the upper part of the Wolga appear to be specially liable to this disease. The more northern and southern portions of the empire present a relatively less proportion of cases, and in the western pro- vinces, so far as the author is aware, stone is very rarely met with. The hospitals of the large cities, especially the clinics of Moscow and Kasan, receive the greater part of the patients; at certain times the fifth part of the surgical patients in the Moscow Clinic consists of cases of stone; on an average, rather more than 60 cases are treated at this hospital every year. These patients belong almost always to the agricultural class ; the number of children is at least thrice that of adults ; of 1792 patients treated at the Moscow Clinic between 1822-60, only 4 Avere females. Compound stones are the most common; pure uric-acid or oxalate-of-lime calculi rarely occur. Generally the nucleus is formed by uric acid or by a urate ; then there is a layer of oxalate of lime, followed by one of phosphates. The affection has generally existed a considerable period when the patients apply at the hospital; adults are, indeed, often in such a con- dition as not to admit of operation; the author observed no less than 36 such cases at the Moscow Clinic in the coui'se of 10 years: even in children the stone was often of considerable size. At the latter age the stone not unfrequently passed into the urethra, and was lodged just behind the external orifice, oi', as happened more often, in the region of the bulb. In respect to lithotomy and lithotrity, the author adduces the statistics collected from the hospitals of IMoscow and Smolensko by Prof. Bassoff (in his work on lithiasis), and by himself These em- brace a total of 4486 cases, of which 3934 recovered. The results of lithotomy,—in all cases the lateral operation was performed—are quite as good as those obtained in France or England, thus :— Hopltal de la Charite and Saucerotte . England (Thompson) Russia (Moscow) . . . . Cases of lithotomy. Deaths. 2809 402 (j) 1002 136 (I) 4486 552 (5!^ Up to the year i860 there had been 222 cases of lithotrity at the Moscow Clinic. In 24 the stone could not bo entirely crushed, and lithotomy had to be secondarily performed; 19 recovered, 5 died. Lithotrity alone was used in the remaining 197 patients; 167 recovered, 31 died. The ratio is therefore as i to 6-35, or rather worse than in iitiiotomy; it must be remembered, however, that the average ago of the patients was greater than that of those submitted to the knife. The