13S REPORT OX PRACTICAL IfEDICINE. of the latter ranging from 18-22 to 26-j i, that of the former from 25-27 to 37-18. Most cases occurred in the decade from to to 30 yeara of a>'e. Treatment was most successful in tlie first 10 years of life, and from that period it gradually became less so with advancing years, so that after the /Joth year tiio per-centage of mortality exceeded that of re- covery. The disease was most prevalent in tlie first 15 months of the year, especially in March, April, and May. Most of the patients traced their attack to a chill, but it is doubtful how often this sensation should be regarded as one of the first morbid plieuomena of which they were conscious, and how often it was actually produced by an excessive degree of cold. It was only in the minority that the disease began with a violent febrile paroxysm announcing a grave impending disease, and that the local affection became physically demonstrable on the 2nd or 3rd day, wliilo the febrile movement continued more or less violent. In other cases fever gradually supervened and increased in proportion to the advance of the local mischief. Tlie view appears, therefore, warranted, that in certain instances a local action on the lungs pro- voked an inflammatory process, while in others certain alterations in the blood preceded, and the action of the respiratory process on this altered blood led to, a localization of an exudation process in the lungs. Under the head of treatment, the following remarks are made. If at a former period blood was taken too often, in too great quantity, and too indis- criminately, it is now certain that at the present day too little use is made of this remedy. Many ill results justify this remark and con- tradict, in a deplorable manner, the recent notion that venesection is to be entirely rejected. A circumstance which is of special significance in this question, and which, with a few exceptions, justifies bleeding, is the existence of hardness of the pulse. This kind of pulse separates abruptly the influenzal pneumonia from acute sthenic ; with respect to its adaptation to venesection, the former bears bleeding very badly, in the second it is useful and necessary. A strong, tense, or hard pulse requires, as a rule, even a repetition of bleeding, while, on the contrary, when the pulse is above 110, and compressible and weak, when the patient is of delicate constitution or of advanced age, venesection is not indicated. So also it acts in general prejudicially when the disease is produced by infectious matters, septic poisons. Depressing mental conditions, an atmosphere laden with malarious exhalations and impure matters, or that of great cities, especially in narrow streets, damp dwel- lings, deep cellars, crowded hospitals, hinders the good effects of bleed- ing, and makes it even injurious. In general, it is recognised that individual cases of pneumonia are often so dissimilar that it is im- possible to put them all into one class, and to lay down for their treat- ment one and the same method. The aspect of the patient, the state of the pulse, of the nervous and muscular systems, and of the skin, the sputa, &c., must reveal to us the true quality of the disease, and aflbrd us the best grounds for our judgment and action. If we are in doubt as to the right course to pursue, the best plan is to test the body cautiously witli an agent of known efficacy, and to observe the result. Hitherto there has been too much tendency to regard inflammation as au always quite uniform process, and to treat it as such always quite