14 NELATON^S PllOBE. SOO jjiirt with ether immediately after the injury, the apphcation being re- peated till luminous exhalations are no longer given off in the dark. J. Iliitcliinson, the internal administration of lelladonna in cases of severe hum ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 10).—Experimental physio- logists have recommended belladonna for use in the treatment of burns, in the belief that it diminishes that state of the nervous functions under whicli reflex inflammations are likely to be originated. They assert, on the otlier hand, that of all remedies opium is the one most powerful in in- creasing this peculiar state, and that it ought consequently to be avoided. In clinical practice, however, we believe that this opinion is wholly disre- garded, and that opium is the form of anodyne most commonly resorted to in these cases. Yet it is generally suspected that the causes of death after burns are, in a majority of instances, connected with reflex inflam- mations, c. q. ulcers of the intestine, pneumonia, &c. In a series of cases under Mr. Hutchinson's care in the London Hospital during the last six months, the belladonna treatment has been tried. The result appears to have been fairly satisfactory. Mr. Hutchinson considers that the cases in which the remedy had seemed to be most useful, were those of children in whom general febrile symptoms, attended with restlessness, loss of appetite, &c., had set in without any local complications. In several of these, there could be no mistake that the feverish state had passed away quickly and very satisfactorily under the use of belladonna. In no case had he witnessed any ill results. If the burn itself was very painful, and the patient unable to get sleep on account of the pain, then the belladonna seemed comparatively incflicacious to procure ease, and morphia was far more efficient. As a rule, no opium had been given to the cases treated by belladonna ; but in a few, and those chiefly in adults, it had been found requisite to give an occasional night dose. Possibly more benefit might have been obtained had the administration of the belladonna been pushed to larger doses. The usual amount given had been a third of a grain three times a day. GUNSHOT WOUNDS. p. H. Hamilton on the use of Nelaton's prole (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, ii, 288).—"This excellent little instrument has not been brought into the general use and appreciation to which it is already entitled; indeed, its value was fully declared, when on its first trial, and in the person of the illustrious Garibaldi, a problem was solved, which had puzzled the most skilful European surgeons. The records of this hospital show several cases where Nelaton's probe has discovered the presence of lead, and, in one case, of iron, where their existence was never suspected, certainly not known. Thus a grapeshot, weighing 2 oz.,was discoved, and re- moved by Dr. .lames B. Cutter, from the calf of the leg—the patient pre- viously averring that the ball had gone ' clean through.' In tliis case, the iron being rusted left upon the probe a brownish stain. In the following case the instrument discovered the presence of lead. M. G—, private ytli Connecticut Vols., was admitted with a gunshot wound of the left leg, a short distance above the ankle-joint. His medical attendants upon the field had informed him that the ball had merely glanced across, bub had