GENERAL SYSTEM. 61 effect of giving calomel in full (gr. xx) doses ; this subdues the vomiting, and enables the stomach to retain the quinine. With respect to diet he does not offer or prescribe food for a young soldier just attacked with fever for the first day or two; but if a patient is sent to him who has had fever for a week or more, he regards him as starving, though he may have no appetite, and may even loathe food, and persistently makes him swallow small quantities of soup, arrowroot, and milk, and if he has been a spirit-drinker, or even a free liver, he gives him wine or spirit. What he desires to impress on his readers is, that malarious fever is not an in- flammatory disease, but the direct contrary, and requires no depletion by bleeding or purgatives, and that the congestion of the liver, &e., which appear in fever, and the morbid secretions thence arising, are best cured by early and large doses of quinine, under the use of which the con- gestions disperse, and with them the morbid secretions. Also that we can support the strength of the patient without danger by proper food and nourishment. Compare with this a pamphlet by Dr. Macpherson. Mackay, a. E., M.D.—On M-i/sipelas. Edin. Med. Journ., Feb., 1864. Mackay recognises this disease as essentially contagious, but further as a diathesis, certain persons being so prone to it, that it becomes in them a peculiarity of constitution. For a period of about 9 mouths, when Mackay had the medical charge of H.M.S. Marlborough, cruising in the Mediterranean, a succession of cases of erysipelas occurred on board. The intervals between these were so filled up with cases of erythema, and latterly with cases of a somewhat peculiar form of cynanche, that the chain of disease was kept tolerably complete throughout. The whole of the ship was most carefully examined, but no local source of disease could be detected. Mackay refers the fi-equency of the seizures to marked proclivity to the disease on the part of some of those affected, certain atmospheric conditions, and contagion. Chaecot, J. M.—On the influence of Saturnine Poisoning on the deve- lopment of Oout. Gaz. Hebd., 10, 27, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 171. Charcot confirms Garrod's observations. He gives a case at some length in which gouty disorder with local deposits of urates was very marked without there being any hereditary predisposition, or anything in the mode of life to produce it except the occurrence of repeated attacks of load colic. Ho states that of 20 patients who came under his notice for the results of inveterate lead-poisoning 7 had previously suffered from attacks of gout. In 3 of these the serum was examined for uric acid, but none was detected. Makkham, W. 0., M.D.—T/ic tises of Bloodletting in Disease. Brit.- Med. Journ., Apr. 2nd, 9th, i6th, 23rd, 30th, May 7th. Lakceheaux.—»%7n7t^ec lesions of Internal Viscera. Brit. Med. Journ. April 23rd, 1864; Gaz. d. Hop., March 17th, J864. ' Lancereaux says the lesions produced in the viscera by syphilis present in general sufficiently well-defined characters to allow of their cause beino- specified. They may be grouped under the following forms:—(i) Intei°