REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. 86 usually very much contracted, but dilated greatly during the paroxysms of pain, and that simultaneously the conjunctiva of tiie lids and globe became very red, and its temperature increased, thougli jio catarrhal secretion toolc place. Atropine in these cases would not produce dilatation of tlie pupils. Sometimes tiic enlargement (!xiHted wiLliout the other symptoms, sometimes there was only contraction. In some cases one eye only was aifected, in others botii. Duclienue believes that the patliologieal anatomy of ataxie locomotrice progressive is not yet made out, and compares the ocular derangement with those of the bladder, rectum, and genitals. M0NTINE.TA, A. DE.—Gaz. des Hopit., 1864, 11, Relates a case in which symptoms much resembling those of ataxie locomotrice progressive were removed by free cupping along the spine and blisters. An attack of typhus, which lasted 4 weeks, interrupted the improvement, which subsequently went on to complete recovery. AxENFELD—On alrophic der/eneraf ion of the Spinal Cord. Arch, gener. Aug., Oct., 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 291. In an historical sketch of the disorder termed ataxie locomotrice progressive Axenfeld states his disapproval of the name and his pre- ference of the older one—tabes dorsalis. He ascribes the first investi- gations respecting it to German rather than to French avithors. Tlie chief difference in the descriptions of the disease given by Romberg, Duchenne, and Trousseau, relates to the condition of the sensibility, which some writers state to be preserved, while others affirm it to be impaired, though certainly not in proportion to the amount of motor disorder. Respecting the pathological alteration, there is a very general agreement, both as to its nature and its seat. It can only be regarded as a chronic myelitis, as the vascular injection, the increase of connec- tive tissue, and the wasting of the uerve-tis.'iue, as well as the symp- toms and the causes, testify. The chief symptom of tabes, the "ataxia" of the movements, has nothing in common with convulsive affections, for the latter occur independently of and against the will, while the former is manifested solely during voluntary movements. It has more resemblance to functional spasms, e.ff. to writers' cramp, but is essen- tially different from tliis by being apparent in all kinds of movements, while the cramp only ensues when the hand is placed in a certain position. What alterations in the nervous system conditionate the "ataxia" is quite unknown; disturbance of the harmonic action of the antagonist muscles affords no sufficient explanation. The locality of the causal alterations is also undetermined. This only is certain, that they are situated partly in the posterior columns of the cord, partly in the cerebellum. Physiology as well as pathology teaches that diseases of the cerebellum and removal of its substance disturb the faculty of co-ordination ; it is also certain that in the majority of autopsies gray degeneration of the posterior columns and posterior roots has been discovered- The conclusion from those facts must be that the cerebellum is a, centre of co-ordination, but not that similar centres exist also in the cord, because the posterior columns may possibly only afford tho means of communication from the periphery to