12 aEPOlir ON PUYSIOLOGY. also in dufoct of the valvea, and especially in Bright's disease it is fre- quently present. ' Br. 0. Neumann also deseribes a new liajraodynamometer (' Wunder- lich's Archiv fiir Heilkundc,' 1864, p. 403), by means of which he also arrives at the conclusion tliat the secondary (diastolic) pulse-wave is a normal phenomenon, due to the recoil of the blood upon the aortic valves. The contraction of the vessels takes place in two strokes, between which the diastolic wave occurs. Tlic duration of the expansion of the artery is to that of its contraction not nearly as 100 to 106, but at most as i to 3. Drferenees letween the r'ujU and left Cavities of the Heart.—G. Colen ('Comptes llend.,' 2, 1864, p. 957) gives the following as the results of his experiments:—(i) The impulsive force of the left ventricle is only a fourth that of the right. In a horse of average size the force of tiie right side was from 230 to 240 lb., of the left from 56 to 60 lb. (2) During violent exertions the force of the right ventricle increases at the most only by one half, that of the left may rise to double or even treble. (3) The quantity of blood received and ejected by each moiety of the heart in the same time are not equal. The left auricle, which is the larger, does not propel its whole contents; part remains within it, part re-enters the veins. On the right side there is no sensible reflux. (4) The right ventricle also does not transmit the whole of its contents during expiration ; the balance is restored during inspiration. (5) The pressure of blood in the pulmonary system is, on an average, one fifth of that in the aortic; it may rise during exertion to one half. The rapidity of the circulation is six times less on the right side than on the left, and is subject to great fluctuations. On the share of the Blood-vessels, especially of the Capillaries, in New Formations (C. 0. Weber).—The relation of the vessels to new formations is twofold—on the one hand new vessels grow out from the old, on the other the cell-elements of the vessels play an essential part in the deve- lopment of the new structures. A gradual transformation of capillaries into small arteries and veins, and of the latter into larger ones, is more frequent than a strict formation of new vessels. The capillaries are not merely enlarged, but all tlie elements which normally constitute arteries and veins are formed from the surrounding tissues. In a ease of fibrous tumour of the uterus Weber found in the adhesions which connected it with the abdominal walls new vessels of the size of a goose-quill, wliich communicated with the epigastric and mesenteric arteries, and with the vena porta3. They are present in fibroid tumours in parts otherwise very poor in vessels. Their development takes place on two types—that of cell formation, in which nuclei are arranged in a row, passing outwards from a capillary, and form a small "street,'^ which afterwards becomes pervious to the blood; and that of gramilation-shoots, which consist in the formation of solid outgrowths of nuclei, thickly heaped together, which become hollow and communicate with the vessels. In congenital nffivi the new vessels are due sometimes merely to extension and thick- ening, but sometimes they arise by means of loop- or grape-formed out- growths from the vessels. Tlie cells of the connective tissue may come, though seldom, into direct connection with the vessels, become expanded, and pervious to blood. Most frequently there is first formed on tiie