OCCUPATIONS. 473 labour. They frequently take i or 2 meals iu the room in which they work. The diseases of compositors appear to arise from conditions incidental to their occupation rather than necessary to it, being caused partly by their unsteady habits, partly by the heat and defective ventilation of their workshops, and by over-work. Another great evil is the com- bustion of impure gas, containing sulphureous compounds; this is stated to produce asthma and a form of bronchitis. As a rule, they do not complain, but speak of themselves as healthy. They are usually thin and pale, with dilated pupils. They appear not to be subject to acute diseases, though they are very liable to take cold. Consumption is a very frequent cause of death. Snuff-taking is their besetting sin, and it is believed that drinking is also a prevalent habit. They appear to be subject to metallic poisoning from the type. Before distributing, the type is washed with solution of potass, which oxidizes the surface, and the salts so formed may be absorbed by the mouth or by wounds. The dust from the cases was analysed, and found to contain 9^44 per cent, of lead, i'8i per cent, of copper, i per cent, of antimony, with traces of arsenic. Dr. Smith states that dropping of the wrists is certainly fuuud among compositors. Their mortality in middle life is more than twice that of agricultural labourers. The machine boys are, however, placed in far worse conditions than any other class of persons employed in printing offices. Even young boys often have to work two days and a night continuously, with only slight intermissions when the forms are changed, or at irregular periods. The case related by Dr. Smith is quite sufficient to prove that some- thing ought to be done to improve their condition. Besides their long hours of work, they appear to be poorly fed. They are almost invariably thin and pale, and many of them complain that they are weak. Dr. Smith's report concludes with a list of measures adapted to the improvement of the hygienic conditions under which printers work. The ' Times' office is a striking example of the possibility of effecting these changes; but it is, as he remarks, a singular result of these recent improvements that the ratio of sickness has rather increased since they were carried out. Dressmakers.—Dr. Ord reports (6th Report, &c. ; Appendix, p. 362) on tlie sanitary circumstances of dressmakers and other needle-women in London. The dressmakers may be divided into two distinct classes— those who board and sleep in the houses of their employers, and those who live at their own homes, and go to and from the houses of business at fixed hours. The first of these classes are almost entirely at the mercy of their employers, so far as the hours of work are concerned. As a rule, they appear to begin work at 8.30, after breakfast is finished, and to continue, with two intervals of half an hour for dinner and tea, till 8 or 9 o'clock at night. The work-rooms are in some houses closed at 4 or p.m. on Saturdays. Many employers keep their workwomen em- ployed from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. In the season the earliest time of quitting work is in a large number of houses from 10 to \ i p.m., and under the pressure of court ceremonials the work is often carried far