GENERAL SYSTEM. 43 on strong pressure, but the darker were not modified in any way; tliey were evidently due to effusion of blood in the true skin. They were in no degree elevated, and were scattered x^retty equally throiighout the body, being perhaps a little more abundant in the extremities than in the trunk. They usually appeared at the end of 24 hours, sometimes earlier, and in some cases were perceptible after death, although not very ^^sible during life. The duration of the spots was very variable ; in some cases they lasted a week or two, disappearing in the same way as the dark colour of a bruise. The complexion was dull and slightly yellow, but there was no jaundice. The eyes were moderately injected in some instances, but rather in the veins than in the arteries. In one case an eye was destroj^ed by suppuration. There were no glandular enlargements. No age was exempted, but the larger proportion of patients were between 15 and 20 years of age. More females than males wei'e attacked. In one case examined after death there was con- gestion of the brain and an effusion of serum at its base and in the ven- tricles. The lungs were slightly congested posteriorly; the right side of the heart contained very dark fluid blood, with a very small and flaccid coagulum. There wei-e ecchymoses under the serous layer of the pericardium and under the serous covering of the stomach, and there was an ecchymosis a quarter of an inch broad in one of the glands of Peyer. The fever appears to have originated in the army in Virginia, before it reached Pennsylvania; but it does not seem to have spread by contagion. There was no positive evidence of its having been transmitted from the sick to the healthy; whilst in many cases in Connecticut where it also prevailed it attacked persons who had not been in the neighbourhood of the sick. With regard to. its mortality a number of the patients died in from 12 to 24 hours, and the largest number in the course of the second day. If the patient lived over 48 or 50 hours there was a fair chance of recovery, although fatal cases were met with after the lapse of several days. 'No critical days were noticed. Some convalesced after 2 or 3 days, others after a week or two, and in one instance recovery was protracted for many weeks. Tlie most important remedies were stimulants. Wales, P. S., M.D.—Notice of the Spotted Fever as it occurred at Newport, Bhode Island, in the first ^months of 186^, with a history of the disease, its si/mptoms and treatment. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., 1864. Wales concludes from his review of former epidemic fevers that spotted fever has prevailed at various times both in Europe and America, under titles expressive of some of its numerous local complica- tions or forms, and thus giving rise to errors in the recognition of the nature of the various epidemics leading to the separation of diseases essentially the same. He thinks there is no reasonable doubt that the typhoid pneumonia which has prevailed from the earliest period of our history at various times is identical with spotted fever. Four varieties of the disease are described by Dr. Page; (i) that which principally attacks the brain ; (2) the spurious peripneumonic form characterised by pain in the chest, and oppression of breathing, with cough and