9 CIRCULATION. variations in the arterial tension. The heart acts more or less quickly according to the " weight " it has to overcome. What favours the cir- culation^in the capillaries quickens, what liinders it retards, the heart's heat. This is proved by the sphygmograph, which demonstrates the co- existence of low arterial tension with rapid pulse, and vice versd. Most of the causes whicli influence the heart's action affect first the capillaries. Eapidity of pulse is due, not to increased force, but diminished resistance, and is a sign, not of force, but of weakness. Food, however, and severe muscular exertion, such as may hinder the free passage of the blood, increase at once the rate of the pulse and the arterial tension. The force of the pulse is not a measure of the heart's power nor of the con- stitution, but of conditions of the arteries only. It depends, fir.st, on the volume of the artery, aud, secondly, inversely on the tension. The finger detects in the pulse, not the extent, but only the speed of the movements. Dicrotism of the pulse is due to oscillation of the blood through its acquired velocity; in the artificial system of tubes it was absent when air was used, present in a certain degree with water, and to much greater extent with mercury. It arises from retardation at the capillaries, and varies with the length of the artery ; hence it is more marked in the distal arteries than in the aorta. It is determined by rapidity and quick ceasing of the impulse ; hence it is most in the young and in diseases like typhoid, in which the elasticity is increased, the contractility which neutralizes part of it being lost. It is increased also by diminution of arterial tension, as in bleeding, and is in proportion to the smallness of the amount of blood propagated by the heart. The influence of the respiration on the line traced by the pulse is capable of giving valuable information. In the normal condition this influence is small. Expiration elevates and inspiration lowers somewhat the general outline which indicates the average arterial tension, owing to the varying pressure on the thoracic aorta; but the effect of respiration on the abdo- minal aorta is precisely the inverse, that vessel being compressed during inspiration when the thoracic aorta is expanded. These two influences nearly neutralize eacli other. But every hindrance to the passage of air into the lungs increases the thoracic influences, and produces elevation of the outline during expiration, and its descent during inspiration. This effect is observed during respiration through a single nostril. Every hindrance to the enlargement of the abdomen, on the other hand, pro- duces the inverse effect—the ascent of the outline at the moment of inspiration, and its descent during expiration. Keeping the mouth open and breathing very freely suffices to give predominance to the abdominal influences. A prolonged inspiration in some subjects will temporarily stop the heart's action. The line given under these circumstances resembles that produced when the pneumogastrics are galvanized. Marey ascribes the result to an excitation of the pneumogastrics by the extreme dilatation of the lungs. In respect to the capillary circulation, Marey is of opinion that there is only one force which moves the blood—pressure; and only one variant of the motion—the size of the capiHaries, which is regulated by their con- tractility. This varies continually with the weight of blood to which the capillaries are exposed, being greater for each organ in a depending