192 UEl'OllT ON PUACTICAL IIKDICINE. hand, whicli was oiiorinously swelled, of a dusky purple colour, with largo hullai over the dorsum; the forearm also swelled, tliou<^li not discoloured, but presenting several longitudinal i-ed lines running up to the elbow. Tiiere was great local pain, intense thirst, lieadache, loss of appetite, shivering, and general feeling of sickness. On incising tlio hand matter oozed out. IIa viLAXD, A.—The Hour of Death in acute and chronic disease. Brit. Med. Journ., October i The author has collected over jjooo cases of death, with the hour of death and other circumstances recorded, which he had tabulated and exhibited on a large chart. By this chart he showed that in looo cases of death in children under 5' years of age the periods of the greatest mortality took place during the hours between i and 8 a.m., and that in the succeeding hours between 9 and 12 p.m. the rate of tiio mortality was at its minimum. He then compared these statistics with 2891 deaths from all causes, and the chart showed how remarkably the wave-lines of death compared with those above. Deaths from consumption, although they showed a general resemblance in the wave- line, yet between the hours of 4 to 8 a.m. showed a depression when compared with the first 4 hours' period. He contended that the tables on the chart proved the extraordinary mortality in the early hours of the morning, when the powers of life were at their lowest ebb. He urged the necessity of feeding and stimulating the patients at their weakest hour, so as to tide them over a critical period, and, even if death be inevitable, so to support the patient that he might at least have a few more hours of life snatched from eternity, to admit of his being able to carry out some neglected duty, pardon some enemy, and see some beloved friend. Andeew Claek, M.D.—Clinical Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 209. Clark contributes several short papers on warty growths, on the soft palate, on naso-palatine gland disease, on the use of the microscope in the diagnosis of diseases of the lung, on the seat of the products of pneumonia, on the migrations of spermatozoa, on albuminous urine, on renal calculi without htematuria, and on a hitherto unnoticed condition of the urine in disease and its probable relation to the habitual exhala- tion of ammonia from the skin and the temporary occurrence of albumen in the urine. Dn. EiCHAEDSOK.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., January 16. From his examination of the Norwich hospital records iinds that the lowest mortality during 30 years occurred in 1831, when bloodletting was freely employed, and a liberal amount of alcoholic liquor ad- ministered, viz., I5-J-0Z. per patient. The highest mortality was m J 836, when only 7 oz. of alcoholic liquor were allowed, and the abstrac- tion of blood was nearly a fourth less than in 1831. BnucE Tjiomson, The Epidemics of the General Prison at ^_^>''^'- and of the City of Perth, compared and contrasted. Ediub. Med. Journ., March, 18(54.