POROUS HYPEROSTOSIS. m A. jE. Durham on osteomalacia and on porotts hjperostosis (' Guy's Hospital Eeports,' 3rd series, x, 380).—In most museums there are to be found bones, principally skulls, which are much thickened and in some instances to an enormous extent. In the skulls the sutures are obliterated, the diploe more or less completely absent, and the grooves and foramina for the blood-vessels very greatly increased in size and number. Such specimens may be arranged in two series. " In the first of these series the bones are more or less uniform in structure. They are comparatively spongy, light, and somewhat disposed to crumble under pressure. Their general appearance has not inaptly been com- pared to that of dried mortar. All such conditions may properly be included under the name of porous hyperostosis. In the second of these series the bones are extremely hard, dense, and heavy, but, like those of the first series, they have a certain rough irregularity of texture. The several varieties of this series may be included under the generic term sclerotic hyperostosis. Now, it is, I believe, generally considered by the few M ho have paid any attention to this subject, that the dense heavy condition is related by succession to the light porous condition, and that the transformation is effected by a process of what has been termed 'consecutive induration' (Eokitansky). It seems to me, how- ever, after the most careful examination, that it is probable, rather, that although processes of ' consecutive induration' unquestionably go on in each, yet nevertheless the two series are really distinct, and represent the more or less perfectly cured conditions of different diseases. The soft mortar-like series illustrates, I believe, the changes which ensue when the progress of moUities ossium has been arrested, and a more or less successful attempt at repair and the re-establishment of normal nutrition has been set up. The dense and hard series, on the other hand, similarly illustrates, I believe, the cure of rickets under certain particular circumstances and conditions." " With regard to the transition of bones softened by mollities into the porous form of hyperostosis, the evidence seems to me very strong, and may briefly be stated as follows:—In mollities the bones become, as we have seen, distended and sponge-like in their general structure. In the skull the diploe disappears, and the tables become thickened; the sutures are more or less obliterated, and the grooves for the blood- vessels enlarge. All these alterations remain, and some of them become more pronounced in porous hyperostosis. Indeed, if a portion of skull affected with mollities be slightly macerated and dried, and then com- pared with a sirnilar portion from a skull affected with porous hyperos- tosis, a very striking general similarity in appearance is at once seen to exist between the two. It seems, to the unaided eye, as though the mollities-bone did but want the addition of a little more earthy matter and a little more general firmness and resistancy to make it ex'actly re- semble the other," Microscopical examination besides proves, that in general arrangement, shape, and size, the lacunas and canaliculi of the porotic bone closely resemble those of the bone affected with mollities, and that in both cases these structures differ from the corresponding pnes of healthy bono in precisely similiir respects.