413 OVAMOTOMY. whicli there is scarcely any peduncle, the application of a clamp is difficult and inconvenient, and dangerous traction on the uterus and peritoneum will be caused. How best to manage short peduncles is yet to be discovered. In some cases, after the tumour has been cut away, and when the mass left on above the clamp has shrunk, the clamp may be applied somewhat higher up. For this to succeed it is necessary to have two clamps, one applied above the other. (7) Closing of the external loound.—This may be done with equal facility either by harelip pins or by silver wire. If pins are used, they must be gilt or silvered, not plain steel. The practice of Mr. Spencer Wells has proved that it is safe to pass the needles through the peritoneum ; but it may be doubted whether any material advantage is obtained. If not through the peritoneum, the ligature or pin should pass close to it through everything else. They should be inch from the edge of the incision on each side, so as to have a firm grasp. They should not be more than f inch apart, and great care should be taken to carry the lowest as close as possible to the peduncle, and, indeed, it is always well to transfix the peduncle itself, and thus secure it firmly in the wound. (8) The after-treatment y&vj accovAmg to the. special symptoms which present themselves, but the following suggestions of the author may be offered:—(i) It is very desirable, in order to avoid vomiting, that the patient should take nothing by the mouth during tlie first twelve hours excepting ice; above all, no opium or other medicine should be so given. (2) The chance of recovery has, in many instances, probably been much diminished by the too hasty and too free resort to opium and stimulants. These remedies should be given or withheld, as the patient's state may demand. In many cases, neither will be necessary. (3) If the patient be low, she should be nourished by enemata of milk or beef tea, to which, if needful, wine or brandy may be added. (4) If the stomach remain irritable for some days, the use of enemata should be continued instead of giving food by the mouth. (5) Fresh air should be admitted plentifully to the sick-room. .3-—Dr. Peaslee's case of double ovariomy is one of great interest. The adhesions were very extensive and strong, and required great force to break down. The haemorrhage was very free. The omentum was everywhere firmly adherent to the tumour. The tumour of the left ovary, the main one, was polycystic. The right ovary, also diseased, and the size of a hen's egg, was removed. " Perhaps a hundred vessels in the omentum were bleeding, and there was about a pint of blood in the abdominal cavity." Many ceased bleeding on exposure to the air. Ligatures of fine silk were applied to more than a dozen ; these were cut close and left in the peritoneal cavity. Torsion was used to many others. The wound was closed by silver sutures, long needles, and superficial silk sutures. The patient had been nearly five hours under the influence of ether ; opium was given freely. On the seventh day there were evident signs of blood poisoning. Dr. Peaslee therefore injected into the abdomen a pint of blood-warm water, and washed out more than half a pint of thick bloody matter. These injections were repeated two or three times a day during a period of 78 days. The