RKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 180 iSPENDEit, J. K.—Oil the nahire and Irealmcnl of Non-sypMlilic Psoriasis. Brit. Med. Joura., Jan. i6. Spender recapitulates his arguments aud facts as follows:—(a) Nou- ayphilitic psoriasis, so far as it can be proved to be uon-syphilitic, pre- sents itself under the three forms of acute, subacute, and chronic, (i) Psoriasis, like its cougeuers, probably arises from " tissue irritation," which may be aggravated or perpetuated by au unhealthy state of blood, (c) The acute form requires to be treated locally by black wash and glyceriue ; the subacute and chronic forms are relieved by tar ointment. The preparation which Spender employs consists of Ungt. Picis diluted with a large per-centage of chalk to give it consistence, aud, finally, with a moiety of zinc ointment to give it astringency. {tl) The internal administration of arsenic is generally necessary for the cure of psoriasis when it has passed into the chronic stage, (e) In doubtful cases, where arsenic, single handed, seems to fail, the union of arsenic with bichloride of mercury will sometimes produce the most satisfactory results. In auEemic persons the therapeutic properties of arsenic will sometimes lie almost dormant, until it is combined with some preparation of iron. jSTayler, Gr.—Brit. Med. J., Sept. 3. Gives the following precepts for the treatment of lichen :—In the acute stage the use of purgatives should not be neglected, as the Mist. Magnes. Colch., to which antimony may be added, and as an ex- ternal application either Goulard lotion or one holding in weak solution creasote and bichloride of mercury gr. i ad 3]. Lotio Carbonis is also of considerable benefit in these cases. In the more chronic conditions, and in lichen agrius, small doses of mercury should be given; aud, indeed, in the greater number of papular complaints this mineral will be generally required, the amount not exceeding gr. ,V of the biniodide, or gr. of bichloride. Before going to bed some mercurial ointment should be rubbed into the aifected surface. That in use at the Blackfriar's Hospital is a compound of bisulphuret and nitric-oxide of mercury, with a little creasote. In the lichen urticatus of children the same means may be adopted, regard being had to the age. Thus, to a patient of 3 years old the carbon lotion should be diluted with an equal amount of water, and the mercury diminished by two thirds for a dose. "When the eruption is confined to a few spots, or takes place in a weakly sub- ject, quinine or iron may be prescribed with advantage, the local treat- ment remaining the same. The tincture of aconite in certain cases is highly spoken of by jSTeligan, and as a local measure the same author recommends conium, given thus, viz., Succi Conii 5j + Glycerinii 5ss + Soda; Carb. gr. v -\- Aqua) sj. Baths arc highly serviceable in these disorders, but the temperature should not be too high. Alkaline baths, or sulphuretted, may be serviceable and where the irritation^ is very great, and the sldn rough and dry, a starch or gelatinous bath will be productive of considerable comfort. Scrofulous lichen requires, accord- ing to Hehra, 01. Morrh. 5SS his die, and in lichen ruber the best remedy is arsenic.