383 OPERATIONS IN MIDWIKEUY. •where it was employed the first pains supervened, on an average, ^-J- hours ; the child was born, on an average, .30 hours after its introduction. The operation was in no single instance followed by hajmorrhage, great ■care being taken to avoid the placenta. Puncture of the membranes with some blunt instrument is rather to be recommended in cases where the cervix is shortened, or where the os is dilated enough to admit of the introduction of the finger, e.g. in cases of contracted pelvis with head presentation. The intra-uterine injection is longer in operation than the catheter. Prof. Braun advises that the opening through which the water is injected shall be at the end of the catheter, and not at its side, in order that the stream of water may penetrate further; and states that the caoutchouc bladder of Lazarewitsch loses much of its injecting power by being softened with the warm water, so that it is not to be preferred to the common enema syringe. Dr. Moir thinks that the dilatation of the os uteri should be effected very slowly and gradually. He separates the membranes from within the os uteri by means of the forefinger passed within the os and turned round, so as at once to separate the membranes and slightly dilate the orifice. The importance of obtaining a head presentation in cases of premature labour, and avoiding the use of the forceps, if possible, is insisted upon. In one of the cases related dilatation was commenced a week before delivery, and repeated every day until labour set in. TtTENING. Dr. Graily Hewitt, " On the operation of Turning in cases of Dispropor- tion between the Foetal Head and the Pelvis" ('Lancet,' 2, 1864, p. 232). Dr. Braxton Hicks, " Three Cases of Obstructed Labour ; Forceps and Craniotomy employed in former labours in each ; delivered readily by Version" ('Med. Times,' vol. i, 1864, p. 425). In cases of pelvic narrowing, or of disproportion between the fcetal head and the pelvis, we have four alternatives :—(i) To wait and see what nature can do without assistance. (2) To apply the forceps. (3) To per- form version ; or (4) craniotomy. Dr. Hewitt remarks upon each of the.se moxles of practice, and warmly advocates the practice of turninc; in such cases, when possible. The mechanical advantage obtained by turn- ing arises from the fact that the diameter of the base of the fcetal skull which has first to pass the brim of the pelvis after turning is less than that of the upper part. Further, the transverse diameter, which requires to be lessened, is capable of being reduced to a greater extent when tho head is made to enter the pelvis with the base lowest; and the rest of the head is more readily moulded to the shape of the pelvis so as to allow of its passage through the brim. Again, by turning we have the advantao-e of being able to make traction on the child with much hope of etfectin"- its delivery alive. In comparing turning with the " high forceps opera°- tion —a much more exact expression than deliverv by the "lono-