171 SECRETORY SYSTIOM. state of thrombosis (GroLe believes the hsemorrhagic infarctum to be produced by exti-avasation of blood), and tensely filled with blood. The blood-globiiles arc often massed together in roundish heaps by agglu- tinating fibrine, presenting the appearance which has been termed "blood"corpuscle-holding cells." Billroth has not observed the trans- mission of an infarctum into an abscess. (Ill) Chronic diffuse process. Simple liypertrophic spleen.—The alterations in this state may be very various. The splenic tissue may contain a great excess of cells, while the plexiform fibres condense and thicken, and the capillaries enlarge. The highest degree of condensation of the plexiform tissue leads to dis- appearance of the cells. In some cases considerable enlargement of the spleen depends only on hypertrophy of the plexiform tissue, while the capillaiy veins may remain normal. In other cases they are narrowed or enlarged. The walls of the larger veins and arteries are never thickened, but the venous epithelium is often abnormally large. Yellow pigment is often present, but this is not peculiar to the hypertrophic spleen. The Malpighian corpusclesoften areuualtered. Billroth, however, observed in two cases, where there existed enormous enlargement of the lymphatic glands and splenic tumour without leucaemia, these vesicles generally enlarged, and of cartilaginous consistence, the plexiform tissue thickened with local fibroid, cicatrix-like formations. The degeneration does not remain limited to the Malpighian corpuscles, but extends itself in their vicinitj'', and may lead to obliteration of the small veins. Diftuse contractions are not met with in the spleen. JSypertropMc spleen, with hiach pigment.—This Billi'oth considers to be the special result of in- termittent fever. The splenic tissue is not essentially altered; the Malpighian corpuscles are almost normal. The brownish-black pigment consisting of granules and grains irregularly massed together in globular forms or as mere flakes, was in two cases scattered about the Malpighian vesicles and the trabeculae; in a third case the vesicles were almost quite free, but the whole tissue was full of it. Grohe believes the pig- ment to be derived from capillary haemorrhages. The hacony spleen is not always enlarged, but is always abnormally firm. Two forms are to be distinguished. In the first the so-called sago-spleen, the bacony matter lies exclusively in the Malpighian corpuscles, and degeneration proceeds further from this starting-point. The deposit takes place from the arteries, but whether it occurs in or between the cells remains doubtful. The capillaries do not become obliterated. The second form is that where the bacony matter appears in the walls of the small veins. In sections unaltered ei)ithelium is seen on the inner surface of the structureless thickened wall of the vessels. The inter- mediate tissue is poor in cells, in part quite altered and changed into an homogeneous substance, strongly refracting light. Billroth has not met with a combination of these two forms, which Sch. Seidel aflirms to occur. He says, also, that amyloid spleens are very suitable for study- ing llic capillary veins, since they are well adapted for injections. (IV) Chronic circumscribed processes.—Cheesy tubercle in three cases was concurrent with enlargement of the spleen. The tubercles were nu- merous, and it was evident that they were developed out of miliary. The masses, some of which were as large as a walnut, were either defi-