HEPORT on PllACTICAL MEDICINE. 168 found after death. Three of them were chronic, i comparatively recent. The alterations were such as are found in cases of granular kidney. Lancereaux thinks that these changes occur only in cachectic perfsons; they are, however, not peculiar to lead poisoning, since he has found them also in individuals suffering from the effects of mercury and sul- phuric acid, and in one syphilitic subject who had taken Pot. lod. for a longtime. Danjoy's experience is confirmative of the above statements, and he adds that he has also met in such cases with cerebral affections and amaurosis. He considers the latter to result from the chronic nephritis which is produced by the lead. This view is supported by the circumstance that in several cases the amaurosis and the cerebral (usually epileptic) symptoms appeared and ceased coincidently with the invasion and cessation of the albuminuria. Smith, E.—On the diet in Diabetes. Lancet, Feb. 6, 1864. Smith lays down the following directions:—(i) Fluids.—To be limited by degrees daily, until they shall not exceed 5^ lbs. in both fluid and solid food. Of this quantity 2 to 3 pints should consist of new or skimmed milk, and i pint or less of tea. Tea is very bene- ficial, since it tends to increase both the respiratory and the cutaneous actions. In the cold season, and at night, fluids should always be given hot. Of all the alcohols brandy is the best, and may be given with water only, or added to milk, or beat up with egg and milk, and given several times daily. No fluid should be given in greater quan- tity than half a pint at a time, and when milk is reduced in volume by cooking the daily quantity of fluid must be made up by an additional supply of the same or other fluid. (2) Solids.—Dr. Prout's combina- tion of eggs and milk with sharps (the inner husk of wheat) substituted for bran is excellent. Four ounces of sharps, and as much of peas or lentils, may be made into bread or pudding, with milk, or into omelettes with eggs and herbs, and given when starchy food cannot be altogether intermitted. These, with cheese, gluten bread, meat fat, and oils, may be given as largely as they can be digested. The free use of salad oil should be urged, whether in the cooking of fish or flesh, or in the use of water-cress as a salad, or drunk alone, so that several ounces may, if possible, be consumed daily; but as there are in all persons preferences and dislikes in reference to particular fats, that kind should be allowed which is most agreeable. Four ounces of sharps, 3 oz. of wheaten flour, 5 oz. of peas, i lb. of meal, 2 oz. of cheese, 2 pints of milk, and 3 eggs, will afford more than about 13 oz. of carbon and i oz. of nitrogen daily. Maechal de Calti.—L'Union Med., Oct, 20, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. Contends that cerebro-spinal lesions are frequently the consequence, and not the cause, of the diabetic condition. He cites one case ia which a female, a3t. 38, had been diabetic seven years before a fatal attack of cerebral symptoms. Anstie, F. E.—On some points in the treatment of Diabetes. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 17.