REPORT O.N I'OKKNSTC MEDICINJS. 464 ot lluid into the air-passnges and stomach, as evidence of immersion in the lluid during life, so far, at least, as infants are concerned. The Baine observer now publishes a cases ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' i, p. 29) which came before Casper, and in which a decision was arrived at in accord- ance with these views. The first case is one in which a child was found in a privy. The stomach contained human fajces, which were distinctly recognised both by their appearance and by their smell. The air-tubes were covered to their smaller subdivisions with a thin layer of fa;cal matter, as was also the oesophagus. The throat also contained the same substance. On the surface of the lungs were a few vesicles arising from decomposition, but every part of them sank in water, and no cre- pitation was lieard, nor any bloody foam seen, when they were incised. Here Casper decided that the child was not alive when thrown into the privy, but that it was born dead. The funis in this case was altogether wanting; at the umbilicus was an elongated wound in the skin, with jagged edges. The other case was that of a child which was found beneath a sink. The condition of the lungs showed conclusively that it had been born alive, though decomposition was advanced. The bhroat, larynx, and oesophagus, contained thick, black, stinking mud. Casper, however, gave a positive opinion that death arose from apoplexy and suffocation, and not from drowning, because the membranes of the brain and the plexus clioroides were injected, and because the lungs were not dis- tended (" ballonirt"), as is the case in death by drowning. These cases deserve the attention of medical jurists in this country, for we doubt whetlier the same conclusions would have been arrived at here, and it is desirable that the grounds uj^on which such scientific ques- tions are to be decided should be universally agreed upon. Dr. Liman ('Vjhrschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. F. i, p. 50) publishes some observations on the medico-legal importance of " subpericranial efl'usions of blood in newly born infants." He gives 13 cases, the greater number of which were observed within a year in Berlin. These cases show that extravasations of blood in this position are far from being uncommon. They are frequently, but not necessarily, associated with the ordinary blood-tumour. In the cases given the larger number of children were born alive, but some were stillborn. Injuries to the bones were always absent ; but in the first case some small extravasations existed also on the inner surface of the skull, between one parietal bone and the dura mater. These appearances are regarded by Casper and i)y Liman as affording no indication that death arose from violent causes. It is, of course, admitted that they may be the result of a fall or of a blow on the child's head, but it is contended that they may be caused, like the ordinary blood-tumour, by pressure during birth. In many of these cases the area occupied by the extravasation was apparently too extensive for it to have been caused by any ordinary injury; but they do not go far to prove the spontaneous origin of these appearances, for in most of them the child was found dead without anything being known of the circum- stances of its birth, and in scarcely any of them can the idea of violence be with certainty rejected.