368 llJii'OllT ON MIDWII'EIIV, KTC. ANTEVEllSlOX 01' TIIU OBAVID UTEUIS. ^ Dr. V. I-Iiitor, " Ou Anteversion of the Gravid Uterus " (' Moii. J". Gob.,' Aug., 1863).—Dr. ]Iiitcr cites tlie various authors wlio have treated on antevcrsioa of the gravid womb, and relates cases IVoni Baudelocque, Madame Boivin, Hachmaun, AVilcke, and Godel'roy. A very constant symptom present in cases of retroversion of the uterus is retention of urine, and the absence of this in anteversion is a point in the diagnosis between the two conditions to which Dr. Iliiter alludes. He explains it by the circumstance that in anteversion the uterus, falling upon the bladder from above, leaves the entrances of the ureters free below the seat of pressure ; whilst in retroversion the uterus, rising from below, compresses the urethra or bladder below the entrance of the ureters. A fall bladder is a great obstacle to the occurrence of anteversion. Dr. Hiiter relates two cases. The following is a good example: • A very large and powerful woman had borne three children naturally. When four months pregnant, whilst washing the floor, she was seized with pain in the sacral region, and straining to void urine and fajces. This continued for two days, when profuse hajmorrhage from tlie vagina occurred. She was now seen by Dr. Hiiter. Expulsive pains persisted, the catheter drew ofi" very little urine ; palpation of the abdomen was difficult from the contraction of the abdominal muscles, but a hard tumour could be felt immediately above the s^'mphysis. The anterior wall of the vagina was deeply depressed by a smootli, hard, uniform tumour. The os uteri, with much difficulty, was felt high up and far back in the sacral cavity. The cervix was so bent upon the uterus that the lips of the os were in contact with the anterior wall of the vagina. Attempts were now made to raise the fundus from behind the symphysis, but with only partial success, though the more urgent symptoms were much relieved. The next day the patient was found in a semi-comatose condition, the bladder much distended, and hfemorrliage occurred. These symptoms passed off during the day, and from this time she recovered. During the remaining period of her pregnancy the patient suffered from frequent vomiting, and at irregular intervals from hydrorrhcea, but she passed through her labour naturally. EETEOVEESION 03? THE GBAVID WOMB. Saxinger, "Three Cases of Eetroversion of the Gravid Uterus" (Trag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, No. 3). Atthill, L., M.B., " Case of Eetroversion of the Pregnant Uterus, with Prolonged Eetention in utero of a Blighted Ovum" ('Dublin Quarterly Journal,' Feb., 1864). The cases recorded by Siixiuger occurred in the clinique of Prof. Seyfert, and show the importance of carefully examining a ])atient ;)rr vafjinam and 2^'''' rectum who is suddenly attacked—especially if there be any antecetlent history of pregnancy—with lumbar and sacral pain, a feeling of fulness and weight in the pelvis, with retention of urine