276 REPOllT ON SUllGEllY. beyond tlie cell stage of developmcut, and hence does not at all require that we should have recourse to the agency of their ])areuci)ymatou« juices to explain this plurality. We can readily imagine that a ten- dency of the organism so marked as tliis is seen to be I'roni its results, may in many cases be handed down from parent to ofi'spi'iug, just in the same way as we see a close resemblance to the parental type in other respects, such as personal appearance, voice, manner, and mental peculiarities. But I see no difficulty either in our imagining that such a tendency or peculiarity of the organism may be also acquired in the course of life, through the slow and steady operation of certain hidden physical agencies operating upon the body; more especially when the activity of the processes employed in healthy nutrition are on the wane, at that post-meridianal epoch of life in which cancerous growths are most prone to form in the system." O. Fleming, case of ejntJielial cancer (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. 37, p. 239).—Notwithstanding excision on two occa- sions, the use of potassa fusa, and the application of the actual cautery, the growth, which was seated in the popliteal space, recurred. " I now had recourse to ' Burnett's Disinfecting Fluid,'—a remedy which I had found, on not a few occasions, very valuable in the treatment of cuta- neous cancerous or cancroid growths, much similar in their nature. It often arrested their progress very efficiently, and the resulting granu- lating surface cicatrized smoothly and permanently so. A similar result took place in the above case; and, more than twelve months having since elapsed, it is reasonable to hope that the cure will be permanent." The application causes pain, but not for any long duration. M. Bergeron on chlorate of potassa in cancroid (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 603). M. Bauchet on cancroid (1. c, p. 527). A. Liicke on encysted epithelial cancer ('Arch, fur path. Anat.,' vol. 28, p. 378). C. O. Weber on the development of epithelial cancer in internal organs (1. c, vol. 29, p. 163). A. Hermann on cancer (' AVien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 32, &c.). 13r. Hitter, congenital carcinoma of the skin ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' v, 338). AV. Eddowes on operations for cancer (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 628). BONES. JU. V. Walil on phospTiorus-necrosis (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 212).— So long as lucifer matches were manufactured in large and well- ventilated works, no cases of this disease were observed in Eussia. But since these establishments have been closed, owing to certain regula- tions of the government, cases have appeared at various hospitals; the workmen, indeed, continued in secret to make the matches in their cottages under the most unfavorable technical and hygienic conditions. Among the symptoms the author gives violent uem-algia in those parts to which the branches of the fifth nerve passing through bony canals—especially the infra-orbital and mental—are distributed. When the pain ceases, the corresponding portion of integument is generally found to be completely anaesthetic, showing that the nerve has been destroyed by the previous iullammation. Tlius the author treated for