llEPOET ON SUllGEKY. 842 often excites very great alarm in the patient, and inakcH him almost frantic. Tlie fact is, this discharge is not seminal, or only slightly so, but is a secretion from the vesicula) seminales ; and when this discharge amounts to much, it is the result of over-excitement in tlie parts, or the consequence of nrethritis, and connected Avith epididymitis, and is, pathologically speaking, a catarrh or kind of gleet or leucorrlioea. When this discharge is copious, there are present the ordinary symptoms of nervous prostration both in mind and body. The pro- gnosis on the whole is favorable. The treatment consists in attention to the bowels, keeping them in an easy condition. &ood food, phos- phoric acid, and strychnia, iron, and ergotine internally, and cold water injections into the rectum and bladder. The water should remain in the I'ectum, and not excite action of the organ. " The second condition, or mental, to which I call your attention is a species of monomania. The patient labours under the conviction that he is impotent; that he is no man; that he is disqualified for marital relations ; that he can never procreate, &c., &c., and he broods over this idea, and cannot be reasoned out of it, and exhibits his un- soundness of mind by his false resouing—it is a genito-mauia. If under an engagement to marry, as tl:e time draws near, he will become much excited and wretched. He often will say to you he is sure of his im- poteney, for he has made the experiment with some woman of the town and lias failed; the erection subsided, and he retired in disgust and despair. What are you to do with such cases ? Can you, by argu- ment, lead them to correct views ? Generally you cannot, and they bring forward their experimentum crucis, which with them is conclusive. Some persons cannot pass water if they tliinh some one is looking at them. You may take the ground boldly that they are not impotent; their experimentum crucis proves only that, while their mind was watch- ing the action of the penis, they were not in a condition for successful copulation. I can say, as the result of experience, I have yet to see thejirst case of impotence among that class of persons. If engaged and prepared to marry, I recommend the consummation of the act; the sooner the better; and when they retire to their nuptial bed, to le sure and keep on their own side of it. This part of my advice they never follow long ; they soon become sane in mind ; and often, in the course of nine months or so, they prove themselves sound in body as well as in mind." M. E. Leroy attributes urethral fever to nephritis (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 467). M. Kichard on forced dilatation in spermatorrhoea (1. c., p. 189). B. Schulz on aspermaiisjnus from atrophy of the prostate ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 68, 83). T. B. Curling, observations on sterility in man (' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eeview.,' vol. xxxiii, p. 494). Prof. Elihle ou tahes dorsalis ('Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' i, i; ii, Report, p. 11). Dr. Eussell ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 455). Penis.—Dr. Buroio recommends the local application of the acetate of alumina in balanitis ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 178). He pre- scribes it in the following manner:—$0 Plumb. Acet. 3.], Alum. crud. 5v, A^. Font. 5viij. M. lilt. A perfectly clear lluid is thus obtamed;