457 WOUNDS AND INJURIES. was tight, aud this is of importance, for the hand was not swollen, and this could liardly have been the case if the ligature had been applied for 11 hours. The state in which Eoux was found was extremely critical. His arms and forearms were cold, though his face and head were of the natural temperature. His respiration was stertorous, his pulse scarcely to be felt; his conjunctiva almost insensible. M. Surdun, who saw him a little later, says that his respiration was then nearly normal, his pulse feeble, regular, and very slow; his whole body cold, the chest and abdomen being the only parts at all warm. These descriptions are not quite congruous, but they seem to show that the pulse and respiration improved rapidly under the means which were used to restore anima- tion. This renders it probable that the asphyxia was not of long duration, and certainly that it had not lasted, as said by Eoux, for 11 hours. It is true that the gradual swelling of the tissues beneath the cord might tighten it, and so render dangerous a ligature which at first produced no ill effects ; but it is contrary to all experience that asphyxia should last for so long a time without a fatal termination. It was stated by Eoux that his master stood before him, and gave him a blow with a stick or billet of wood on the neck, which rendered him insensible. M. Surdun examined the neck at the time without finding any injury, but the next morning he observed a small excoria- tion near the insertion of the right trapezius muscle. With reference to this, three questions were put to the experts, which well illustrate the disadvantages of putting theoretical propositions without reference to the actual case. These questions were—i. Can a blow on the neck occasion symptoms of concussion (" commotion ") or of syncope ? 2. Must a blow upon that part be violent or very violent to produce such symptoms? 3. Must such an injury always leave well-marked traces of contusion, such as ecchymoses? The answers to these questions were—i. Yes. 2. No. 3. No. Yet, as M. Tardieu observes, it is most unlikely that a blow with a piece of wood, on a part so well protected by a large mass of muscles, should produce severe effects without causing more than a slight excoriation. It is much more probable that the injury was produced, as a similar one on the chest was no doubt produced, by the fragments of coal which covered the floor of the cellar. Equally unsatisfactory is the statement of Eoux as to what followed the blow on the head. He first described in signs that M. Armand tied a cord round his neck, fastened his hands behind his back, and afterwards bound his legs together with a handkerchief. The next morning he stated that the blow rendered him insensible. He even gave a third account, according to which he was stupefied and unable to move or to cry out; but it seemed to him that M. Armand practised some extraordinary action upon him, and that afterwards he became strangled and bound. He also said that he heard a noise in the adjacent cellars without being able to call out. This state of clairvoyance is certainly extremely improbable as the effect of a blow, and no less remaricable is the state of mutism in which he remained for 36 hours after hia recovery. He could not spealc a word, nor even cry out nor groan.