UEPORT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. is not, therefore, patliognomouic of the affection. The next most frequent dilTereuco was found in the state of the convolutions, which were abnormally open and wider apart in 9 of the cascH of f^eneral paresis and in 3 of the other cases. Injection of the white substance existed in 12 of the cases of general paresis and in 6 of the other cases. The colour of the gray matter was found to be darker than normal in 8 cases of general paresis and in 3 of the other cases. The layers of the gray matter were indistinctly marked in 10 of the cases of general paresis and in 6 of the other cases, and the white matter firm in 8 of the paretic cases and in 4 of the rest. On the other hand, the periosteum of the calvaria was found more frequently normal in the paretic cases in the proportion of 12 to 4 of the other cases. There was a difference also between the colour of the gray matter, which was lighter than normal in 11 of the other cases and only in 3 of the paretic;. and the pia mater stripped readily from the convolutions in 14 of the other cases against 7 of the cases of general paresis. These facts are evidence in favour of the difference of general paresis from other cases of insanity, although they fix upon no particular morbid appearance as distinctly pathognomonic of the affection. Under the head of microscopical anatomy Sankey quotes first the observations of Wedl and Bokitansky relative to the formation of connective tissue on the outer walls of the vessels, and the bulging and quasi-aneurismal dilatation of the same. He adds, " My own examinations of the capillaries in about 20 cases of insanity, and of which 7 were from patients who died of general paresis, led me to the conclusion that the capillaries of the cortical substance are more or less diseased in every case of general paresis. I do not find, how- ever, that the amount of alteration bears any relation to the date, degree of imbecility, or impaired motility; nor' have I detected any correspondence between the diseased condition and the etiology ; but, on the'other hand, I have not found the same amount of abnormal appearance in the capillaries of the other cases." There appears to be some amount of tortuosity in the capillaries in every case of general paresis. This tortuosity in places amounts to a simple sharp curve or twist, in places to a kinking of the vessel; in others to more complex twisting, until it forms, in fact, little knots of varicose vessels of very complicated kind. Sankey has not found this appearance in any otlier form of mental disease, but it is described as existing in other cases by Eokitansky and "Wedl. He confirms the observations of the German pathologists as to the presence of hyaline deposit around the capillaries, which proceeds from a material thrown out by them; subsequently this contracts, and in so doing throws the capillary into bends or kinks; that as it goes on contracting it becomes less hyaline, more fibrous, and at length like a sheath; but if converted into fibres it has no share in the formation of the innumerable fibres that can be seen lacing and interlacing across the field when a portion of gray matter from a paretic brain is under the microscope. These are probably formed, as Rokitansky describes thejn to be, from hypertrophy and induration of the normal^ fjiffused, formlpsp pounpcting stroma, This change is not of inflammatory f Jiaraoter,