REPORT ON WIDWIFKRY, ETC. lations of these foreign matters, but lungs that remained in tlieir entirely footal condition showed only punctiforin lucmorrhages. In two cases both cavities of tlie chest were filled with yellowish-red serum. From the researches of Hecker, Schwartz, and others, on pre- mature respiratory movements, there cannot be a doubt that meconium reaches the air-passages only by inspiration, an instinctive intra- iiterine act. 2.—Prof Bouchut gives the following summary of his views:—i.Tuber- culosis of the bronchial glands—a very common complication of tuber- culosis of the lungs in children—is very rare as a primary or isolated affection. 2. The inflammations of the bronchial tubes and of the lungs are, in children of scrofulous diathesis, the exciting cause of the de- position of tuberculous matter in the bronchial glands. 3. No per- ceptible functional disturbance is in any way produced by this depo- sition in a single bronchial gland. It is only when several glands together, in consequence of this transformation, form a considerable mass in the mediastinum, that the neighbouring organs are pressed on by this mass, and then disturbances manifest themselves as the result of this pressure. 4. Compression of the bronchi, flattening of the large vessels, displacement of the oesophagus, and tension of the par vagum, are the most important mechanical effects of this pressure; but, as can well be imagined, the most serious and alarming symptoms arise from it, and from these alone the diagnosis may, in some measure, be made. 5. Qlldema of the face, with enlargement of the cervical veins, epistaxis, or hajmoptysis, in children, may lead to the supposition that the superior vena cava and the pulmonary artery suffer pressure from some swelling, and that such pressure probably only proceeds from a tuberculous mass. 6. If a child have attacks of asthma, without disease of the heart or lungs being discovered, we have reason to fear the existence of a me- diastinal tuberculosis. 7. Diminution or feebleness of the respiratory murmur in a lung-segment, accompanied with coexisting dulness over the sternum, increases the supposition of a mediastinal tuberculosis, and the consequent produced compression of the bronchi. 8. It' tuberculosis of the lungs does not supervene and produce consumption, then the tuberculosis of the bronchial glands may alone result in a cure, especially by cretaceous degeneration; but this issue is very rare, and death here also results from sudden asphyxia or from ha)moptysis.