439 ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. it assumes a mauve or violet colour, the depth of the tint varying with tlie quantity of the alkaloid. This reaction succeeds perfectly with from gr. '005 to gr. "0005 of the poison. MM. Tardieu and Eoussin relate, in the ' Ann. d' Hyg.' (22, p. 80), those points in the celehrated case of Dr. Couty de la Pommerais, which are of medico-legal interest. It will be remembered that the prisoner, a medical man, was convicted, on the 17th May, 1864, of having mur- dered the widow Pauw, and that he was executed. The history of the investigations which had this termination is as follows :—In conse- quence of suspicions which were excited, the body of Mde. Pauw was exhumed 13 days after her death, and a I'egular autopsy was made. The tissues were comparatively free from decomposition, so that the slighest morbid appearances would have been readily detected, but no lesion was found which could account for her death. There was no trace of external injury. The organs were all healthy, except that certain p»arts of the intestines were found to be congested. The uterus con- tained a foetus of about the 7th or 8th week. When the organs were analysed it was noticed that the stomach and intestines were remarkably free from decomposition. No mineral poison, however, could be detected in tliem. The extraordinary state of preservation in which the viscera were found is therefore no indication that death arose from poisoning rather than from disease, for, as was remarked by M. Hebert, vegetable poisons have not the power of retarding putrefaction, which is possessed by metallic substances. The most important medical evidence for the prosecution was derived from an examination of the surface of the floor of Mme. Pauw's bed- room, at points where matters, which she had vomited, had fallen upon it. Some portions of the " parquet" stained by these fluids were re- moved by the expert who examined the room; these pieces of wood were carefully scraped, and the matters so obtained were added to some scrapings taken directly from other parts of the floor which had been soiled by the vomited fluids. They were then exhausted with hot alcohol. In this way more than 4 drachms of extract were obtained, which possessed a brown colour and a bitter taste. It was attempted to purify this by dialysis, but without any good result. "With this extract M. Tardieu proceeded to make experiments on animals. About 80 grains of it were introduced into two incisions in the thighs of a healthy dog. In about ,3-J- hours the animal began to vomit. The pulsation of its heart fell at the same time from 110 to 94 in the minute, and became irregular and intermittent, and their frequency continued to decrease till it was only 40 in the minute. The animal became cold, and died 22 hours after the injection had been practised. It appeared to retain its intelligence to the last. On examination the ventricles of the heart Avere found to be contracted, while the auricles were dilated; all tlie cavities were filled with black, partly coagulated blood. A rabbit was killed in 2;} hours with 30 grains of the same extract, given by mouth. The symptoms and post-mortem appearances were similar. For the sake of comparison, an extract was made from the pcrapings of a part of the floor of Madame Pauw's bedroom which had been under the bed, and therefore waa not touched by the fluids yowiteci,