282 REPOllT ON SUllGEEY. ('Amer. Joiirn. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 48, p. .328). G. E. Pyle, cases of fractured patella treated by Malgaigne's hooks (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, 1, 86). 13. Beck, gunshot fractures of both leffs ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 9). Dr. Berenger-Feraud on fractures in V (Paris, A. Delahnye). .TOINTS. Mr. Holt, case of chronic hydrarthrosis of the knee-joint ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 265).—The patient was admitted on the 14th of January: the joint was greatly distended with fluid, slightly painful, but not red. Failing in all ordinary treatment, on April 19th, Mr. Holt punctured the joint, which measured i_5| inches, witli a small trocar, and removed a considerable quantity of thin, serous, and slightly yellow fluid, and afterwards injected equal parts of iodine (tincture) aiid water. After some time, the joint was punctured again; "two drachms of undiluted tincture of iodine were now injected, and left in. The patient did not experience any pain, and on the following day the joint was more swollen, but not painful. Prom this time the joint gradually decreased in size, and after another month measured thirteen inches. He was also able to leave his bed, first walking with the aid of crutches, and after- wards with sticks, when he left the hospital for the country, being able to get about with comparative comfort." Frof. W. Btisch, conti-ibutions to the Jcnowledge of contractures in the hip- and knee-joints, and their treatment hy forcible extension, tcith re- ference to the cases observed from the ist Nov., 1855, to the ist October, 1861 ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' iv, 50).—It is well kno\vn that in the great majority of cases of inflammation of the hip-joint, the extremity is at the commencement of the disease flexed, rotated outwards, and slightly abducted ; at a later period it continues to be flexed, but the rotation outwards becomes rotation inwards, and the abduction adduc- tion. The former position appears, from the experiments of Bonnet and Dittel, to be a purely mechanical efiect of eflusion into the joint and of swelling of the parts. The latter is, according to the author, owing to progressive enlargement of the acetabulum ; the head of the femur then slides further and further, till at length it is arrested by the ilio-femoral ligament; should the caries still progress, the thigh rotates around this ligament, which then becomes relaxed, and allows the head to recede further. Prom the dissections ot Pi-oriep and his own observations, Prof. Busch concludes that the muscles do not contribute at all, or only very slightly, to the resistance presented by a false anchylosis; the latter depends on the shortening of the connective tissue in the fascise, in the ligaments, or in the sheaths of the muscles. But one case of firm anchylosis of the hip has been treated by forcible rupture at the Bonn Clinic; the eftect was only in part satisfactory. Nine cases of false anchylosis of the hip with flexion of the tliigh on the pelvis, were treated; eight of them had resulted from hip disease, the other one had foi-med during the progress of a diseased knee. The treat- ment consisted of forcible movements, the result being secured by the use