161 SECUETOUY SYSTEM. tear of everyday life. The youug woman, ou the other baud, is suffer- ing from chlorosis; she has a pale lip and a blanched cheek ; her cor- puscles are being too rapidly consumed ; her life's blood is oozing away by the kidneys, and there is, it appears, an excess of uro-hsematin in her urine. Take, again, these two urines, so different in appearance. They are from youug men about the same age (34 years). The one urine is perfectly'colourless, Uke water; the patient suffers apparently from excessive spinal irritation; the other is of a deep-red colour, case of hteinaturia from disease of the kidney. On adding strong hydrochloric acid to the colourless urine it rapidly assumes a port-wine tint, whereas the same amount of acid added to the red urine, instead of heightening, actually destroys the colour it already possesses. And why ? Simply because the pale urine contains an excess of combined uro-haematin, which is liberated by the acid ; whereas the red urine contains merely a number of free blood-corpuscles; and as the colouring matter in them is insignificant in quantity when compared with the amount of uro-haematin in the other, no sooner are their cell-walls destroyed, and the contained haemato-globulin set free and coagulated, than the red colour disappears. Now, which of these two classes of urine denotes the most danger ? Assuredly not that containing the free blood-cells. A very small quantity of blood will sometimes colour a great deal of urine; whereas an immense destruction of blood-cor- puscles may take place in the body, and their debris be so eliminated as to be invisible to the eye until the application of an acid sets it free. In fact, experience has shown me that the normally coloured urine of disease is a most treacherous guide to go by. It often lulls the inex- perienced into the belief that there is nothing materially wrong, when a grave lesion is making rapid strides towards a fatal termination. Harley cites a case where the patient was said to suffer from hysteria, while examination of her urine showed that she was affected as above described. In some of those cases of obscure disease the excess of uro-hffimatin in the urine is so great that often it has been set free by an acid and taken up with ether ; the ether, after standing, solidifies into a red-currant-jelly-like mass, and may actually in some cases be cut with a knife. Sometimes in disease a great part of the uro-hsematin exists in the urine in a free state, and in that case the urine is red in colour before any acid is added. If it contains a deposit the lu'ine may or may not be high coloured. Another fact, which is of great clinical importance, is that the uro-haematin is not always in the same state of oxidation, and, like indigo, its amount depends on the amount of oxygen it contains. So that it may be pale yellow at one time, red at another, and brown at a third. In consequence of this, different acids act upon the urine differently. In one case we may find that the addition of nitric, sulphuric, or hydrochloric acid gives rise to exactly the same results ; whereas in another case hydrochloric acid may turn '':he urine red, while nitric acid only causes it to become yellow. In a liird case sulphuric acid may develop the colour of the uro-hfematin tter than either of the others. An excessive excretion of uro-hismatin not limited to cases such as we have been describing. It occurs to ome extent in several diseases, especially those in which there is an 11