KEPOUT on MlDWIl'EUY, ETC. three hours, tlio forceps was applied. Moderate traction was made, but without success. Chloroform was then given, and delivery completed by bimanual version. The extraction of the head occupied ten minutes; and although the child was not dead when born, the heart soon ceased to beat and it could not be restored. Its development indicated eight and a half months. On the left side of the head tliere was a scalp- bruise. The uterus contracted well, the whole operation having occu- pied 5 hours. Teverish symptoms, with abdominal pain and tender- ness of the lumbar region, appeared 2 days after, but the patient ulti- mately recovered. The conjugate diameter is estimated by the author at .3" 6"'. The pelvis itself seemed normal, there being no evidence of disease of the bones elsewhere than in the part indicated; and had the patient not miscalculated her time, a living child might doubtless liave been born. In considering the nature and modes of origin of spondylolisthesis, it is important to distinguish this from the much less rare contraction of the pelvis caused by curvature of the spine. Such a case may be allied in form, but yet difier in nature from spondylolisthesis, the essential feature of which is an actual dislocation, with or without subsequent anchylosis of the lumbar vertebraj forwards aud downwards into the cavity of the pelvis. Kilian assigns as the first condition of its origin a pathological process, the expression of some antecedent dyscrasia, probably scrofulous or tuberculous; as the second condition, a local softening between the last vertebrse and the sacrum, and in the liga- ments, attended or followed by inflammation. He denies that the de- formity is of congenital origin. On the other hand, 3 of the cases here cited go far to prove the opposite of this, since in these there was no trace of any local disease. In one case (Braun's) a supernumerary ver- tebral arch and spinous process existed between the sacrum and last lumbar vertebra. The cause of the development of this additional vertebra is not yet explained. Mr. Huxley states that a sixth lumbar vertebra sometimes occurs in man; and as this has been observed apart from any distortion, it may be inferred that it was not the result of an- tecedent disease. I3ut the researches of Dr. Lambl appear to suggest, if not to prove, the hypothesis that the formation of a sixth lumbar ver- tebra may be the consequence of disease of the spinal column, as if the developmental force in early life were exerted to throw out a new pro- tection for the spinal cord, to compensate for the loss or deficiency of parts of the natural A'ertebra. He examined five pelves exemplifying spondylolisthesis, and discovered in all distinct traces of hydrorachis. His conclusions on this subject are—(i) There is lumbo-sacral iiydro- rachis, which constitutes the first condition of a deformation of the fifth lumbar vertebra. (2) There follows a lengthening and thiunmg of the vertebral arches and a widening of the canal. This gives rise to a displacement of the articular processes, and the inferior oblique pro- cesses undergo a torsion of their articular surfaces, which favours their sliding through the oblique processes of the sacrum. (3) Under tliese circumstances the strong hold which the body of the vertebra has m its articular processes is lost, and it acquires a disposition to slip down.