REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 438 Mt^d.,' 19, p. 396) states tliat two kinds of digitaline are used in France ; the one called " German " or "soluble," and manufactured according to a secret process by M. Merck, of Hesse Darmstadt; the other, known hy the name of " French " or " insoluble," and prepared by the method of MM. Homolle and Quevenne. The soluble form acquires a green colour under the action of hydrochloric acid much more slowly than the insoluble; the colour is also less deep. Hydrochloric acid gas turns the insoluble digitaline of a dark green, while it gives a dark-brown hue to the soluble digitaline. This gas also develops tlie peculiar odour of digitalis by its action on the insoluble preparation, but if the soluble form be employed this smell is much less distinct. Under the micro- scope the soluble digitaline presents traces of crystals of indeterminate form ; the insoluble appears as an opaque granular magma, which is a mixture of two substances at least. The soluble form seems, therefore, to be the better defined body of the two. The principle, which is turned green by the hydrochloric acid, appears iu each case to be in- dependent of the digitaline itself. It is volatile, and probably is the same substance with that which gives to digitalis its peculiar odour. Both kinds of digitaline traverse the vegetable parchment, and can therefore be separated by dialysis from substances which contain this principle either naturally or by accident. The bitter taste possessed by both tlie French and German forms, their coloration with hydrochloric acid, and the special odour of digitalis which they give out when heated with hydrochloric acid gas, enable digilatine to be detected in substances which contain it iu tolei'ably large quantity. The observations of ]\r. Lefort are applicable to the substance as sold iu this country also, for it appears that this is always obtained fi'om abroad. M. Lefort does not seem to have made any experiments to determine whether the " German " or "soluble," whicli he supposes to be the more pure, is also the more active variety of tbis substance. M. Grandeau has made a series of experiments (' Gaz. Med.,' 19, p. 383) to test the method of dialysis as a means of separating digitaline from organic liquids. He found that when gr. "01 of this substauce was added to urine the liquid which passed out of the dialyser contained nearly all of the poison. In another experiment gr. '04 of digitaline was mixed with the liquid in which the stomach and intestines of a dog had been macerated. The poison was readily detected in the diffusate. Morphia and brucia also gave satisfactory results in quantities of gr. -02. The green colour which digitaline gives when dissolved in concen- trated hydrochloric acid is not a sufficient test for this poison, for several other organic substances give the same reaction. M. Grandeau believes that the following colour test is characteristic of digitaline. AMien pure, it is coloured brovra by concentrated sulphuric acid ; the addition of water turns it to a dirty green hue. "When a dilute solution of digitaline is evaporated, and the residue is treated with sulphuric acid, the brown colour is replaced by a reddish-brown tint; and in the case of very minute quantities of the ])oison a rose colour like that of the flowers of digitalis makes its appearance. Now, if tlie digitaline, moistened with eulphiiric odd, be exposed to the vapours of broiniuo