7Z IMOPOllT ON J'llACTICAIi SIKUICINK. lute eftort lio was able to drink, but so violent and prolonged a paroxysm was occasioned by the attempt, that it seemed as if lie would have been suffocated. After some time ho remembered having been bitten very slightly on the penis by a little lap-dog, about lo months before. Death occurred from exhaustion during a paroxysm, in the course of the 3rd tlay. Cameron, J.—Brit. Med. Journ., June nth. Eecords a case of hydrophobia proving fatal in 35 hours after the first appearance of the symptoms, and 6 months from the time of the infliction of the injury. Death occurred apparently from sheer exhaustion. Xo definite morbid change was discovered at the autopsy. Blood generally fluid, and somewhat dark in colour. Eeid, J. W.—Edin. Med. Journ., Aug. Records 6 cases of delirium tremens treated with large doses of tincture of digitalis. All terminated favorably. Four had taken more or less opium before the digitalis was given. The first case appeared to be in a very unfavorable, almost hopeless, condition at the time when the digi- talis treatment was commenced. No depression was produced in any. The precautions taken were to ascertain that no heart disease existed, and to prevent the patient leaving his bed for any purpose before he slept, and for at least 24 hours after he had regained his nervous control. Strong beef-tea, or arrowroot, was always administered at proper intervals before sleep. Pateeson, A. S.—Australian Med. and Surg. Rev. ; Glasgow Med. Journ., Jan. 1864. Eecords 2 cases of mania produced by sun-stroke. In both the hands and feet were cold, and the circulation very languid. The first case took nourishment well, though it was necessary to feed her, but was very re- luctant to take stimulants. She recovered in about months. The second was unwilling to take food or stimulants, and remained after ,3 months' residence in the asylum, in the same mental though in an improved bodily condition. BoNKTMAK, J., M.D.—Observations on Seat-Apoplexy. Edin. Med. Journ., May, 1864. Bonnyman recognizes that exposure to the sun is by no means neces- sary to an attack. By far the greater number of cases that yearly occur in India, are those of men who have not been so exposed. It is not unusual for men who go to bed in apparent health to be seized during the night, and patients in hospital, who have been confined to bed for days previously, are frequently the subjects of attack. Great atmospheric heat then appears to be the condition chiefly concerned in the production of the malady, and whatever assists in rendering heat oppressive, as stillness and closeness of the air, over-crowding and deficient ventilation assists also in disposing to a seizure. The principal predisposing causes are those of a debilitating nature, as mental depression, anxiety, great bodily exertion, fatigue, intemperance, suppressed perspiration, and existing dis- ease, especially in any of the depurating organs. Bonnyman describes