kepout on practical medicine. 130 one hand and then with the other. He Btates that a small growth in close pi'oxiniity to the vocal cords may sonictimes only indirectly give rise to aphonia or hoarseness, which may be removed though the growth persists. "Waiker, T. J., M.D.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., April 23. Contends that the best and simplest means of concentrating arti- ficial light for lai'yugoscopic purposes, is by the use of a small glass globe of Avater placed in front of an Argaud or gas lamp. By means of a mirror inches long by 2^ wide, placed immediately in front of the lower part of the globe, and made to incline at a convenient angle, the person whose throat is under observation can, by casting his eyes downwards, obtain in it a perfect view of the laryngoscope and the image reflected in it; at the same time two or more on-lookers can, by placing their heads on a level w'ith that of the person under obser- vation, and looking into the mirror, get the same view of the fauces and of the laryngeal image. MoRELL Mackenzie, M.D.^—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Dec. 3. Describes a light-concentrator to be used in laryngoscopy, which is portable and ensures always having an excellent light at command. The maker is Mayer, of 51, Great Portland Street. Spence, Jas.—Tracheotomy in DipJitheritic Crotip. Edin. Med. Jouru., March, 1864. Spence has operated in 18 cases of true diphtheritic croup, and of these 7 have recovered. Of the fatal cases the smaller number died from extension of the disease beyond the opening into the trachea. The larger group consists of those patients who died from the 6th to the 2ist day after the operation, in consequence of asthenia, the effect of the blood-poison. The most formidable complications are paralysis of the pharynx, giving rise to inability to swallow; or of the palate, leading to regurgitation of the food through the nostrils; or of the glottis, allowing the food to enter the air-passages and escape, as it does sometimes, through the tracheotomy tube. Buchanan, G., M.D.—Glasgow Med. Journ., Jan., 1864. Kecords 6 cases Avhere tracheotomy was performed in croup or diphtheria. Three cases of the latter disease proved fatal, i recovered. Two of croup recovered. In 5 of the cases the symptoms were urgent. Windsor, J.—Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 30. Eecords a case of inflammation of the epiglottis, which was success- fully treated by free puncturing, repeated several days in succession, with calomel to slight salivation. The epiglottis was felt to be much enlarged, in the form of a roundish solid ball, apparently filling up the passage from the pharynx to the oesophagus. Windsor believes Aye are warranted in stating that epiglottitis occasionally occurs_ as a primary afteetion, and may be recognised both by the eye on depressing the tongue and by the finger. It may extend to and involve the larynx, or, vice rers&, may commence in the "latter. If the power of deglutition be much