841 FORCIBLE DILATATION OF THE ANUS. of tlie anus after the operation certainly suggests this idea, and the fact that when the patient is asiced to contract his sphincter by voluntary eifort lie generally expresses his inability to do so, looks in the same ' direction. But, iii answer to the question, I must say that in upwards of twenty cases which have come under ray observation, I have never seen any indications of incontinence, and that I believe the internal sphincter to be equal to any emergency likely to arise during the temporary suspension of the functions of tlie more powerful external muscle. " This remedial measure has a wider application than to the treatment of irritable ulcer of the rectum. In inflamed hsemorrhoidal tumours, or any painful inflammatory affections of the anus, where the spasmodic contractions of the sphincter constitute the pi'incipal source of the pain and obstruction to the circulation, the stretching of the sphincter, with or without the intervention of an ancesthetic, will afford prompt and certain relief. It is equally applicable to the affection described by some authors as ' spasm,' and by others as ' painful contraction' of the sphincter, and also in the ' neuralgia of the anus' of nervous subjects and hysterical women. " I have been in the habit for several years past of employing this manoeuvre after the operation for the cure of hasmorrlioidal tumours, whether by ligature or the nse of the ecraseur. The result has been always favorable. The patient is entirely saved from the severe pain, generally lasting several days, which is caused by the pinching of the tender and inflamed parts by the spasmodic contractions of the irritable sphincter. By throwing it out of play, the suffering after the opera- tion is reduced to a very moderate degree of local soreness, and the necessity for the employment of the catheter, through sympathetic disturbance of the sphincter of the bladdei", is abolished." E. Hamilton ('Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. xxxvii, p. 329) defends the use of the ecraseur in the treatment of hcemorrhotds. It should, however, be employed only in the removal of internal piles of the longitudinal and pedunculated variety. He has himself repeatedly used it in such cases, and is not aware of a single instance in which the disease has reappeared or the patient has applied for the relief of symptoms which could be attributed to its use. Malformations.—M. Demarquay, Littre's operation, &c. (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 513). M. Lemaistre, case (1. c, 1864, p. 54). .Diseases.—H. Smith on the clamp in hajmorrhoids and prolapsus ('Lane.,' 1863, ii, 506). J. E. Humphreys, cancer—operation for artificial anus—temporary relief ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 230). QENITO-TTBHTABY OEOANS. Spermatorrhoea.—W. Parker, after describing the symptoms and treat- ment of this affection ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 265, 289), refers " to two other conditions—one physical, and the other mental, and both difficult to overcome. "The first is a discharge from the urethra while at stool, especially when the fa;ccs are hard and dry ; tliis discharge is called semiual, and