UEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 166 On diaaection the anterior and middle part of the brain was found anasmic; the medulla oblongata, on the contrary, very much congested. The result of these experiments tends to show that when the blood is diluted up to a certain point tension of the aortic system beyond a certain degree determines the occurrence of the so-called ur.Tmic phenomena, and that this may be prevented by lessening the supply of blood to the cerebrum and mesocephale, though the medulla oblongata then is severely affected. The chief object of treatment in urajmia is consequently to lessen the watery constituent of the blood as much aa possible. JoHNSOK, Gr.—Lancst, Jan. i6. Eemarks, with regard to the copious diuresis which occurs spon- taneously during convalescence from acute renal dropsy, as follows:— " During the acute stage of the renal disease the constituents of the urine, both solids and liquids, have accumulated in the blood, and have thence been effused into the areolar tissue and into the serous cavities. Now, urea itself is a most powerful diuretic, and no sooner is the in- flammatory congestion of the kidney removed, and the freedom of the renal circulation restored, than the urea exerts its natural diuretic action on the kidney. The copious diuresis thus induced speedily re- moves the accumulated urinary solids and liquids from the blood, the areolar tissue, and the serous cavities in which they had been effused, and so the dropsy is cured. This abundant flow of urine occurs without aid from diuretics or drugs of any kind. I have seen it occur when bread pills alone were given as aplaceho." SocQTTET and Chatin-.—Gaz. Med. de Lyons, Oct. and Nov., 1862. Brit, and Tor. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., "1864. Eeeommend the simultaneous employment of perchloride of iron and ergot of rye in albuminuria. The beneficial action of the iron was much accelerated by the ergot. The cases observed were some men of bad constitution, weakened by former unfavorable hygienic conditions, such as insufiicient food and dwelling in damp and badly ventilated localities. The dropsy in all the cases at first confined to the face had successively attacked the limbs and the peritoneum. The urine was pale and inodorous, and contained large quantities of albumen, and in one case microscopic examination revealed the presence of renal epithelium. Dickinson, "W. H., M.D. Cantab.—On the treatment of Albtiminuria in Children. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. 4, p. 355. The granular kidney appears to be unknown in childhood. The only form of disease which produces albuminuria at this period of life is that which produces enlargement of the kidney, and gives it a smooth, mot- tled exterior. This is, in fact, a renal catarrh. The tubes become ob- structed by an excess of their own epithelial growth, and hence arise all the evils of the disease. If only there is a free escape for the contents of the tubes the vascularity of the gland will be relieved by secretion, and the disorder will soon be at an end. The principle of treatment must be tp send as much water as possible through the organ. This fluid la