267 FACIAL PHLEBITIS. pericarditis were also found. "Both kidneys..contained a number of circumscribed abscesses, varying in size up to that of a small pea." "Three facts appeared to Mr. Moore to justify a repetition of the operation, or of some modification of it:—i. The separation of fibrme upon tlie foreign body, and its rapid deposition. 2. The exemption of the inner aneurism from inflammation, probably to be accounted for by its possessing a lining membrane, which the outer cavity had not. 3. The firm adhesion of the clot to the wall. Not having yet thought of a more suitable foreign body than wire, he had but two modifications of the operation to suggest: "i. The introduction of a smaller quantity. The objections to this had already been pointed out. 2. The use of slender needles as temporary means of procuring the consolidation of the fibrine. The safety of this must depend on the number of needles ■which might be inserted, the gentleness with which they should he withdrawn, and the period at which fibrine so i^rocured should acquire a sufficiently firm attachment to the wall of the aneurism to allow of the artificial support of the needles being dispensed with." Mr. Sheppard, aneurism of carotid cured by compression (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 643). Prof. Oppolzer, case of aneurism of the subclavian ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 187, 194). H. Davies, aneurism of iunominata and subclavian, in which distal occlusion occurred ('Loud. I-Iosp. Eep.-,' i, i). C. H. Fagge, aneurism seated on an ab- normal main artery of tlie lower limb ('Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' x, i^i). M. Gayet, case in which a knife passed through the profunda femoris and opened the corresponding vein, treated by digital compression, ligature of the external iliac, and ending in death (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 166). C. J. Bracey, cases cured by compression ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 221). M. Broca on the diagnosis oi emlolism (' Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1864, p. 3). TEIITS. M. JBlachez on facial phlebitis ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 716).—This variety of phlebitis has some special characters, owing to the anatomical arrangement of the veins, and their free anastomoses with the intra- cranial sinuses. At 11 a.m. on the i6th July, 1863, a soldier, aged 43 years, was admitted under Dr. Gerier at the Gros-Caillou Hospital. He had been ill for some days with fever, redness, and slight swelling of the forehead; these symptoms were attributed to erysipelas, and emetics were administered, but without success. On his admission he was found to be delirious; the skin on both sides of the nose, over the eyelids and the forehead, was red; the swelling extended some distance further under the hair; the palpebra> were cedematous and could be separated only so far as to show the presence of chemosis. Tlie red- ness was not uniform, but in patches of a slightly livid hue along the fronto-temporal veins. The latter as prominent, hard, violet-coloured ' cords. At 4 p.m., the delirium was becoming more violent, and in the evening it became necess.ary to apply the strait-waistcoat. The pulse became small and irregular; coma followed, and death at a a.m, At tlie post-