408 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. compound or proliferous cyst is of much the most frequent occurrence, and is closely liomologous to the cystic disease of the orcast and testis. The alb uininous fluid contained in ovarian cysts is usually thin in simple cysts, more dense in compound ones, and pre.sentin<j great varieties in colour, from a clear watery fluid to that like tar. The sero- purulent fluid occasionally seen is more common in simple than in compound cysts, and is usually a consequence of inflammation after tap- ping. The term "alveolar or colloid cancer" has been applied,—pro- bably incorrectly,—to a not uncommon form of compound cyst, in which very numerous loculi exist, and the spaces are filled by a semi-solid tenacious substance. The term cysto-sarcoma has been applied by Miiller to those cysts in which the fibro-intercystic substance equals or exceeds in quantity the contained fluid. But all degrees of structure may be observed in diff"erent tumours and in difierent parts of the same tumour, and heuce it is impossible to divide the cystic tumours into diff'erent classes. Good typical examples of all—{a) the single, simple cyst; {h) the simple but multiple cyst; (c) the proliferous or compound cyst; (d) the same, with colloid contents; (e) the pro- liferous, with large sarcomatous formation—may frequently be met with, but in a large majority of cases ovarian tumours possess two or more of these varieties. The more active the proliferous tendency, and the further the departure from simplicity of organization, the more nearly the tumour approaches the malignant character. The dermoid cysts of the ovary, in many cases in no way connected with impregnation, and quite independent of any " included fcetation," have the power of producing in their lining membrane aU the appendages of the skin, hair, teeth, &c., and of secreting into their interior the ordinary excre- tions of that organ. 2.—The term " menorrhagia," although commonly applied to all cases in which unusual and profuse losses of blood occur from the unimpregnated uterus, is strictly applicable only to a limited number of such cases, since abnormal uterine hasmorrhage may be produced by several distinct pathological conditions, and is only one of the symptoms of disease of the uterus and its appendages. Ovarian menor- rhagia, which is of not uncommon occurrence, is so designated because the ovaries are supposed to take the initiative in the production of the morbid flow of blood from the uterus, just as they do in the production of the normal catamenial discharge. Various circumstances may con- duce to excite a state of hyperemia in the uterus and ovaries at the catamenial period, which may thus cause menstruation to be excessive in degree or prolonged, or both excessive and prolonged. But, further, if one or both ovaries become congested, whatever be the cause, uterine hemorrhage may result at any time in the interval between the cata- menial periods. In this way an irregular and morbid form of men- struation may result, and yet the phenomena occurring—so far as anatomical conditions are concerned—in the same order as durmg healthy menstruation. Congestion and inflammation of the ovaries are not, however, always accompanied by menorrhagia, and in such cases the primary cause of the ha3morrhag'e is not always easy to discover. "When no fibroid tumour is present, when there is no polypus, no