884. HEPOUT ox MIDWIl'BBY, ETC. forceps" — it frequently happens that the forceps cannot be applied on account of the contracted condition of the os uteri often present in cases of pelvic deformity. It is in these cases that JJr. Braxton Hicks's method of turning (described in 'Year Book,' 1863) will prove of the greatest value, especially in cases where the patient is seen early, and where the membranes are still unruptured. ]3ut even in the more diflieult eases, where the waters have escaped and the uterus is tightly contracted round the child, turning can still be effected, by careful and steady introduction of the hand into the uterus, long after the oc- currence of the impaction. In turning, carefully performed, we avoid the risk of laceration of the uterus connected with the application of tlie forceps in the high operation. While the delivery can doubtless be effected more easily by turning in these cases of deformity, the danger to the child is greater than in delivery by the forceps. If turning be resolved on, the following points are noteworthy. The operation may be performed very late, and even in cases of considerable impaction the head will be found to recede before the hand in the vagina with singular readi- ness. Contraction of the uterus is not an insuperable obstacle. Chloro- form is not absolutely neeessar^', but generally advisable. The bladder and rectum must both be emptied before the operation. In all cases both legs should be brought down ; much difficulty is often caused by neglect of this precaution. If the head, after turning, cannot be extracted, craniotomy is necessary, but is then not difHcult. In extracting the child a lateral motion, together with traction in the direction forwards, will facilitate the passage of the head. The great point is to delay the first part of the extraction, but to hurry the delivery of the head. Dr. Hicks's eases well illustrate the advantage of bimanual version over the forceps and craniotomy. In the first case there was coarctation of the brim. The patient had had four children ; the first was very small, born naturally; the third delivered by craniotomy ; the fourth by the forceps. Premature labour at 7^ months was advised in her fifth preg- nancy. This was neglected until nearly the full term, when she con- sented, and delivery was effected in 2I hours from the commencement of the dilatation. Both mother and child did well. In the second case a semi-elastic solid tumour in the cavity of the pelvis lessened its antero- posterior diameter one third ; craniotomy had been performed in former labours. Bimanual version was performed early in labour, and a dead child delivered. She recovered rapidly. The third patient had been delivered of only one living child (premature) in eleven labours; in three craniotomy, in three forceps. A small brim obstructed the head, which required some traction after version. The mother did well. THE FOECEPS. Dr. Ryan, "An account of 1206 Midwifery Cases, in 977 of which the Forceps was used loi times " ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Feb., 1864). Dr. Halahan, " On Difficult Labour ; Forceps Cases " (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' May, 1864).