185 UESPIUATOllY SYSTEM. has seen ataxic cases of pneumonia perhaps more frequently than else- where, acetate of ammonia has appeared to him to be more efficacious than musk, and he has therefore employed it with remarkable success. Pneumonia, complicated with eruptive fevers, and which Avoiild become malignant and accompanied with delirium, may be mitigated by musk or acetate of ammonia. If an adynamic condition prevails, musk, espe- cially the tincture, together with cinchona, appears to be preferable; but in De'lioux's experience acetate of ammonia in large doses relieves the pneumonia which is consecutive to measles and scarlatina. Lkvick, J,, M.D.—MemarTcs on the Epidemic Influenza of 1861 and 1863, with notices of some malignant forms of this disease. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., 1864. Levick states that, though the influenzal is generally a mild form of disease, it is capable of developing symptoms of the gravest character, and that in all ages its periodical visitations have preceded, accom- panied, or succeeded, epidemic diseases of the most malignant and pesti- lential character. He notices as anomalous symptoms swelling of the parotid and other glands, earache, buzzing, and other sounds in the head, giddiness, intense pain in one eye, soreness, and in one instance exquisite tenderness in the abdominal muscles simulating peritonitis. In one case there was acute arthritis, with profuse renal haemorrhage. Intense mental depression was a more constant and more distressing symptom than the pulmonary complication ; indeed, it was often present without any accompanying pulmonary lesion. The latter he attributes to the operation of the poison on the respiratory nervous centres, which will give rise to dyspnosa, passive congestions, pulmonary oedema, and leave the ejifeebled lung exposed to the assaults of intlammatory or other disease. In several cases cutaneous eruptions were observed of a measly or lichenous character, sometimes covering the whole body. Occasionally influenza goes a degree further in the downward scale, and assumes the form of a putrid fever, with all the marks of septic- jemia. Hjalteltk, J., M.D.—JEpidemic Pneimonia in Iceland in the year 1863. Edin. Med. Journ., May, 1864. The author says—" It must certainly be accepted as a well-known fact that a cold climate, Avith a stormy and rigorous winter season, will generally in more or less degree give rise to severe and acute pulmonary atfections, and it is equally clear that such causes may in our " ultima Thule" work with greater energy than in the more temperate climates, and that even to such extent which medical men practising in the more southern latitudes scarcely may imagine. I am very well aware of the contrary view by some modern pathologists, who are inclined to look upon all diseases as well-defined things, which always, in all ages, and by all circumstances, will be the same; but such'a view, by which diseases are made up to a sort of individuals, like well-defined minerals, plants, or lower organisms, may do well in renowned medical books, but they will never be found borne out by facts; and looking more closely into the matter -^-e shall surely find out that the history of epidemics speaks strongly against such an accpptiou (assumption ?).