psychiathik. 105 observations of Thurnam, Brigliara, and Baillarger, have confirmed these statements. Thurnam puts the paternal influence in all cases under observation at 8-3 per cent., the maternal at 8\^. Brigham's cor- responding figures are 67 and 77, those of the Crichton institution p-i and 7°5. Stewart consequently rates the maternal infiuence less highly than the paternal. Another question of importance arises under this head—Is tlie insanity of the mother more dangerous to the females than to tlie males ? Thurnam and Baillarger answer in the affirmative, and the latter further observes that the father's insanity is slightly more dangerous to the sons than the mother's, whilst the mother's is twice as dangerous to the daughters. Thurnam's figures show that the paternal influence produces insanity in 8-5 per cent, of the males and 8-1 per cent, of the females; the maternal in yd per cent, of the males and 9'3 per cent, of the females. Brigham's corresponding figures are, for the paternal influence /'o; per cent, in the case of males and 6'3 per cent, in that of females, for the maternal 5-9 per cent, in the case of males and 9-5 per cent, in tliat of females. Stewart's own experience shows the paternal influ- ence to be marked in 9-4 per cent, of males and 87 percent, of females, the maternal in yi per cent, of males and 8'i percent, of females. Dr. Burrows considers that a child physically resembling its insane parent will more probably suffer from mental disease than one re- sembling the sound parent. This, indeed, seems a natural conclusion. We have, how'ever, Moreau, on the other hand, stating that there is a law by which theseries of organs which holds under its dependence the psycho- cerebral organization, and that which gives the resemblance or analogy of physiognomy, are transmitted separately from the parents to their descendants. So, every time that an individual has presented an analogy of physiognomy more or less striking with one of his parents, he owed to the other parent his cerebral organization, as the presence of the hereditary evil has attested. Question IV relates to the influ- ence of sex in receiving insanity hereditarily. Hood's numbers are 8"58 per cent, of males to io'6a of females, Guislain's 475 of males to 7'i72 of females, Thurnam's 32"82 ofmales to 35'48 of females, Esquirol's 32'2o of males to 24-66 of females, Stewart's 48'56 of males to 51 "05 of females. These show sufficiently the greater liability of the female sex to suffer from hereditary insanity than the male. Question V relates to the frequency of the different forms of insanity among hereditary cases. Stewart admits that all vai'ieties of mental disease are trans- mitted, and that a different form may appear in the child from what existed in the parents. Not only actual insanity in its various forms ia transmitted, but also numerous forms of nervous ^disorder, as epilepsy, chorea, paralysis, convulsions, hypochondriasis, eccentricity, immoral tendencies, stupidity, waywardness. To these Whitehead and Marce add obliteration of one or more of the sensorial faculties, such as hearing or sight; and the former observes in such cases a vicarious action by which the child born blind or deaf of insane parents is often in no way defective in its mental faculties. Not only this, but sometimes mem- bers of families in which nervous disease, and even insanity itself, is present, are gifted with genius, while they may even in their own