NEin'OUS SYSTEM. 97 speedy recovery in the mau, but was rather injurious to the female, although her symptoms were precisely similar. Nitrate of silver, how- ever, was speedily effectual. The patients were not treated till some mouths after the commencement of the disease. Sewell, J. A., M.D.—Lancet, July i6th. Eeports 4 cases in which profound coma—resulting from an over- dose of opium, or alcohol, or from other causes—was removed by the administration of strong green tea. Hutchinson, J. H.—Amer. Quart. Journ. of Med. Sciences, April, 1864. Eeports the case of a girl, set 20, who had complete loss of speech, and also complete deafness, which seem to have continued 4 months, in spite of various remedies, including electricity and tonics and aniline. After being etherized, she entirely regained her hearing. Two days later she was etherized again, and regained some little power of vocalisation. After a third etherization she recovered her speech, and lost her hearing. A fourth etherization produced no immediate result, but in the course of a few days she was able first to hear loud voices, and later to understand what was spoken in a loud tone of voice. She improved rapidly after this, and was quite well by the middle of January. She continued under observation another fortnight, and remained quite well. Teissiee.—On the internal employment of Turpentine in the headaches of nervous loomen. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, January, 1864. Brit, and Por. Med.-Ch. Eev., July, 1864. This cephalsea is characterised by a pain in the bead, much more continuous and fixed than that of neuralgia, and may last, not only several weeks, but months and entire years, without presenting more than rare and slight intermissions. The pain is sometimes dull, some- times shooting, and sometimes pulsative, occupying only a single point of the head or the whole of the cranium, accompanied by nausea or even vomiting, and complicated besides with much more serious symp- toms, such as vertigo and tendency to syncope, inability to think or work, despondency, weariness of life, and sometimes numbness in the limbs. It is especially observed in nervous women, and often coexists with a- or dys-menorrhoea, or menorrhagia, though it is sometimes met with where the constitution is good and the uterine functions are regular. EosENTHAL, MoE.—Researches and olservations respecting the influence of Cold on Sensory and Motor Nerves. Wien. Med. Halle, v, I—4, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 184. Eosenthal examined the eftect of cold on compound nerve-trunks by applying ice to the skin, covering them where they were superficial. He examined in this way the ulnar, radial, crural, and peroneal. The first eftect was pain in the part supplied, soon followed by diminution of sensation, and finally by ansesthesia. In the same way the motor function was at first excited, but gradually weakened, and ultimately