UEPOllT ON MIDWIFEUY^ ETC. 402 found either with the finger or with the finest uterine sound. Tlie uterus- could not bo felt througli tlie rectum nor through the abdominal walls. A catheter passed into the bladder could be distinctly felt by tlie finger in. the rectum. The author thinks this should be added to tlie very rare cases of healing of cancer which are described by Rokitausky, Kiwiscb,. Scanzoni, and Virchow. PELVIC IliEMATOCELE. Tuekwell, H. M., M.B., ' On Effusions of Blood in the neighbourhood, of the Uterus. With a Synopsis of 98 Cases.' Oxford, Parker. M'Clintock, A. H. M.D., "On Pelvic Hajmatocele" ('Diseases of; Women,' p. 246). Dr. Tuekwell gives an excellent resume of all the known history andi pathology of the so-called peri-uterine or pelvic hamatocele. This lesion consists in an extravasation of blood into the pelvis, either within or external to the peritoneum. In the great majority of cases, the blood is poured out into the peritoneal sac, and occupies the recto-uterine cul-de- sac of Douglas. Hence Nelaton's term of " hajmatocele retro-uterine." None of the extravasated blood may, however, he behind the uterus, and very rarely is it all round the uterus. In exceptional cases, the blood is ex(ra--pGr\tonea], i. e. the effusion takes place into the loose connective tissue of the pelvis, holding the same relation to the surrounding organs as the pus to the ordinary pelvic abscess. In such cases, the effusion usually commences between the layers of the broad ligament, and from thence dissects its way either anteriorly, posteriorly, or laterally, pushing before it and separating from its attachments the vesico-uterine and recto- uterine reflexions of the peritoneum, or extending even into the iliac region and as high as the kidneys. This statement is disputed by M^I. Ne- laton and Voisin, who maintain that extra-peritoneal hsematocele does not exist. On the other hand, Nonat and other authorities support the opinion held by the author, in favour of which Prost and Beequerel cite three well- authenticated cases. On this point the post-mortem evidence is decisive. In 38 out of 41 cases of which the post-mortem examinations have been carefully collected by the author, the blood was found to be inira- peritoueal. In 26 of these cases the blood was diflfused, and in 12 it was circumscribed and limited to the retro-uterine cul-de-sac. In all the re- maining 3 cases of the 41 the evidence was in favour of the blood being extra-peritoneal. But as the latter is a much less dangerous form than the intra-peritoneal, the opportunities for demonstrating it post mortem must be more rare, and it is not unlikely, as Dr. Matthews Duncan suggests, that this form of the disease is of much more frequent occur- rence than is generally supposed. M. Bernutz contends that the extra-peritoneal variety is only met with during pregnancy or the puerperal state, and that no example of its occurrence at any other time has ever been accurately recorded. The cases of jHifra-peritoneal hemorrhage have been grouped under two heads, viz., the enci/sfed and the non-cnci/slcd. Hence the great differences observed in the post-mortem appearances. In the non-cncys(cd the amount of extravasation is very great, with the blood part fluid, part