SUTURE OP NEUVES. S59 il£ Laucjier on suture of nerves (' Q-az. Hebd.,' 1864, pp. 454, 520).— Owing to an injury, both the radial and ulnar arteries, the palmaria longus, and the median nerve, had been completely, the flexor sublimis partially, divided; the arteries were at once ligatured. On the 13th June, when M. Laugier first saw the patient, there was no sensibility in any of the parts supplied by the median nerve; i. e. over the whole palmar surface of the thumb, index, and middle fingers, and over the outer part of the ring finger. It was only partially lost -where the radial is distributed; thus, perfect over the dorsal surface of the thumb and first interosseal space, it was entirely wanting in the index and lower half of the dorsum of the middle fingers. The movements of opposition of the thumb were impossible. A silk thread was passed through the middle of the upper part of the nerve, entering about twelve millimetres above the wound ; it was then passed in like manner through the lower end, and knotted; thus the edges of the wound were placed in apposition. No accident, attributable to this proceeding, appeared, but the same evening the sensibility appeared to be return- ing. Next day it was quite decided, and the thumb could be readily opposed to the fingers. The thread came away on the twelfth day; this was followed by evident inflammation of the nerve, lancinating pains along the thumb, index, and middle fingers, and diminished sensibility. Twenty days later the tactile sensibility was evidently becoming much more perfect; the patient could not only oppose, but circumduct the thumb. M. Laugier thinks that this case sufficiently shows the advisability of suturing the larger nerves. M. Nelaton, after removing a neuroma of the median in the middle of the arm, and excising a piece of the nerve two centimetres long, sutured the two ends by a wire thread; in forty-three hours the sensi- bility and power of voluntary motion began to return. AETEEIES. A. G. Seid on the treatment of cases in ioMeh a large artery is wotmded ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' ix, ioo6).—In a report of surgical cases under the care of Mr. Spence, the author remarks, that " even in recent surgical works a rule is laid down, that in primary hsemon'hage no attempt should be made to tie the wounded artery unless it is bleeding. This 1 law is certainly very applicable to small blood-vessels to which there is ' no direct guide, and which may be generally trusted to nature and ; compresses. But where the artery is of large size, such as the radial I and upwards, there is no security from haemorrhage without ligature of i the vessel; and if from the position and direction of the wound it is suspected that the arterial trunk has been opened into, the incision ; should be enlarged in the direction of the course of the artery, and a ligature applied, if necessary. Two of the above cases illustrate this modification of the rule—the one shows the necessity of a careful examination of the wound, and the early application of the ligature ; the other indicates the risks arising from delay. In C. C— the wound ■ looked at first sight trifling; it was situated rather low down in the thigh to lead to the suspicion that the femoral was opened into and ; but for the blanched appearance of the child, and the mother's state*