274 UEPORT ON SURGERY. implication of tlie adjacent glands, tlie agency of the lymphatics appears very probable. Virchow has, however, pointed out, that solid elements would necessarily be arrested at the first gland, and that thus the pro- gress of the cancer would be stayed till tliis, in its turn, acted as a fi'esh centre of infection. II. (a) Prof Virchow is the great advocate of the opinion that secondary cancerous growths are produced by means of a specific irrita- tion set up in tlie affected part or organ by certain ichorous juices derived from the primary cancer, and circulating with the blood. It seems doubtful, however, whether the degree of malignancy of a cancer is to be always measured by the amount of parenchymatous juices which it contains. If we yield this position, we shall find " that tlio hypothesis requires the aid of two or three rather remarkable postulates to lend it support. We have to imagine that this cancerous juice, even when diluted to the extreme degree, that it must be by being mixed with the whole mass of the blood, not only possesses irritating proper- ties capable of exciting certain morbid processes in particular parts of the system, but irritating properties of such a special nature as to cause the tissues acted upon to produce a growth similar in general characters to that from which the poisonous blastema was itself derived, and these effects, too, be it remarked, are supposed to be produced by a fluid which, for aught we know to the contrary, and which all positive know- ledge would lead us to believe (saving the exigencies of certain hypo- thesis), to be as bland and non-irritating in its nature as any other albuminous or fibrinous fluid in the body." (b) Mr. Paget believes that cancQv-'blastema getting into the current of the circulation and becoming arrested in certain organs, has the power of developing out of itself the germs of a new cancerous growth. But how this could be efl"ected, seems almost inexplicable, when we consider that this liquid blastema must necessarily, soon after mixing with the blood, be diffused through this vital fluid and thus be reduced as it were to a solution of extreme tenuity. The same difiiculty, too, presents itself as in the case of the cancer-cells, as to how and where any of this blastema could find an undisturbed resting-place in which to develope. Of course the very possibility of such an occurrence as the origination of cancer-cells out of a perfectly homogeneous blastema, would be strenuously denied by all advocates of the cellular pathology, whoso watchword is omnis cellula e cellula. III. " We may also consider these secondary cancerous growths to have been produced in a manner entirely independent of direct influence from the primary formation, and to be developed under the agency of tlie same conditions that gave rise to the first growth. In many cases, indeed, of nearly simultaneous development of cancer in various parts or organs, the growths must almost necessarily be produced in this independent manner. In tlie language of the humoral pathologists, who look upon cancers as the ' local manifestations of certain specific morbid states of the blood,' wherein ' are incorporated peculiar morbid mate- rials wliich accumulate in the blood, and which tlieir growth may tend to increase,' this simultaneous or independent development of multiple cancerous growths, would be attributed to the ' intensity of the can-