IlEPORT ON PlIVSIOLOOY. 8 upon a slip of paper moved by clockwork, 2nd. A modified and very delicate registering spliygmograpli was employed to delineate tlie move- ments of the pulse. .3rd. A series of elastic tubes was constructed to represent the arterial system, proceeding from a central vessel provided with valves to represent tlie (left side of the) heart. Through these tubes currents of fluid were passed by means of an elastic bottle com- pressed at regular intervals by the hand, so producing the chief physical conditions of tlio circulation of the blood. Every explanation given was put to the test upon these tubes. Among the numerous results arrived at are the following. Taking the entire cycle of the heart's action at one second, the contraction of the auricle precedes that of the ventricle by two tenths of a second ; it lasts one tentli, that of the ventricles lasts four tenths. The impulse is due to the heart assuming a globular form. Each of the changes which occur within the heart leaves its distinct mark upon the figure delineated—the depletion and repletion of the ventricle, the systole of the auricle, and the closure of the auriculo-ventricular and of the sigmoid valves. Owing to the retractility of the lungs, the heart is subject to a " negative pressure " during inspiration. In measuring the variations of pressure within tho cavities by means of a mercurial manometer, Marey found that in the right auricle the pressure was negative during almost the whole period; in some rare cases, owing to the presence of a large quantity of blood, the pressure was positive throughout. In the right ventricle the pressure is negative only at its upper part, and at the commencement of the diastole. In the left auricle there is more constantly a short negative period. The minimum pressure is in the right auricle from — 2 to 33 milli- metres (—I to 16 lines), in the right ventricle from— 16 to + 20 milli- metres (from—8 to + 10 lines), generally it is -f- 5 lines. The force exerted by the various cavities was in one case— For the right auricle 2'5 rain. (i*2 lines). „ left auricle (by calculation) . . . 2 „ (i „ ). „ right ventricle 25 „ (i inch), „ left ventricle 128 „ (5" 14,,). The experiments were made on horses, and a correction made for the increased temperature within tlie cavities of the heart. With regard to the sounds of the heart, the first is due chiefly to the sudden tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves, reinforced by the mus- cular bruit. The second is due wholly to the sigmoid valves. They are perfectly reproduced by the valves of the artificial system. The pulse depends neither on dilatation nor motion of the artery, nor on the impulse of the blood, but on a change in the arterial tension simply. This tension diminishes from the heart to the capillaries ; it varies with the amount of the contraction of the latter, and is inverse to the rapidity of the circulation. On comparing the lines given by the left ventricle and the aorta, it appears that the ventricle contracts about one tenth of a second before it opens the sigmoid valves ; tiiis interval is spent in closing the mitral. The pressure in the aorta is generally a little less than in the ventricle. The variations in the rate of the pulse are determined chiefly by the