81 NEKVOUS SYSTEM. Dr. Baudelot, as the result of experiments on the brain in fishes, sjiyg—" If we compare the functions of the corresponding parts of ence- phalon in mammalia and in fishes, we find—(i) That in mammalia jiblation of the hemispheres always induces loss of intelligence and of will; in fishes it is followed by no appreciable eSect. (2) In mam- malia destruction of the cerebellum destroys the power of co-ordination of voluntary movements; in fishes it does not afiect this power, or in a very slight degree. (3) After ablation of the arch of the optic lobes in fishes vision is abolished, as it is in mammalia after removal of the cor- pora quadrigemina. (4) In fishes lesions of the base of the optic lobes and of the medulla oblongata induce disorders of movement entirely analogous to those which are produced in mammalia by lesions of the optic thalami, of the cerebral peduncles, and of the middle peduncles of the cerebellum." (' Journ. de I'Anat. et Phys.,' No. i, 1864, p. 110.) Structure and Functions of the Cerelellmi.—In reference to the structure of the cerebellum, Dr. Luys ('Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Phys.,' 1864, Nos. 3 and 5, pp. 225 and 450) states that all the white fibres of that organ first converge towards the gray matter of the corpus rhomboidale, which is in respect to them what the optic tha- lamus is in respect to the cerebral fibres. These white fibres emerge as distinct fibrillae from the cortical gray matter, and appear to be con- stituted by the union of successive prolongations from nerve-cells of diverse characters. The efi'erent fibres constitute the 3 peduncles, and are all crossed in their distribution. The inferior peduncles pass to the olivary bodies, and thence to mingle with the spinal fibres ; the superior peduncles pass to two masses of gray matter placed in the middle line, answering in all respects to the olivary bodies ('• superior olivary bodies"), and from thence radiate in all directions, chiefly in three bundles, which all intermingle with the ascending spinal fibres. The three pedundles together give origin to a continuous plexiform network of gray substance, extending from the pons to the corpus striatum. The cells constituting this network are of a peculiar yellowish colour, some of them especially charged with pigment, those of the locus niger, e. g., which form a part of the peripheral expansion of the superior peduncles. This gray matter is the instrument through which the influence of the cerebellum is distributed, and it is united intimately and exclusively with the system of the anterior spinal fibres, with the primitive fibrils of which they gradually come into contact. Then the cerebellar fibre becomes, as it were, unbound, the axis cylinder is iin- ravelled, the sheath is prolonged in filaments, at the extremities of which there appear small characteristic cells, and it thus blends itself with the anterior spinal fibre (itself become thin), and these two separate nervous elements become strictly combined. Thus they pro- ceed together till they come into contact with the large cells of the gray matter of the corpus striatum. The walls of these cells are covered with a series of small yellowish cellules, which are the distal expansion of the peduncular fibres of the cerebellum. These furnish anatomical proof of the propagation of the action of the cerebellum to the large cells of the corpus striatum.