BEPOET ON JIIDWIFEEY, ETC. 414. fluid injected sometimes consisted of one quart of water with two draclnns of Liq. Soda) Clilorinata), and sometimes of a weak solution of common salt. Dr. Peaslee relied much on quinine and beef tea, with brandy enemata. At the end of 94 days the last ligature was removed, and the patient Avas considered to have recovered. 4.—Prof. Simpson believes that the operation of tapping for ovarian dropsy ife much more fotal than is generally represented. lie had seen two fatal cases from first tappings in 9 mouths. In one case there had been previous inflammation in the interior of the cyst, and the patient was very much reduced beforehand. The other was a case which was considered most favorable for ovariotomy, but in consequence of the husband being absent at sea it was thought desirable to tap ; this was followed by inflammation of the cyst and the death of the patient. After tap])ing there is always the double risk of inflammation being set up in the interior of the cyst, and of the peritoneum also, the former of which was removed in the operation of ovariotomy. Of 110 cases of first tapping, collected by Lee and Kiwisch, 24 died within the month, or more than i in 5. And of 20 cases collected by Mr. Southam, in- cluding 15 recorded by Drs. Bright and Barlow, without any view to such an investigation, 4 died at once, and 3 more died within a month ; and 14 in all died within 9 months after the first tapping. The following table includes the latest published results of the operation. Name of Operator. Mr. Spencer Wells Dr. Clay (Manchester) . Jlr. Baker Brown . Dr. Tyler Siuith . Dr. Keith Dr. A. Dunlap (Ohio) . llr. Bryant . Total numljcr of Recoveries. Deatlis. Mortality completed Operations. per Cent. 123 83 40 32 no 76 34 30 74 42 32 43 2S 19 6 24 20 14 6 30 19 IS 4 21 10 6 4 40 DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. CIUCULATIOK. Dr. Lewis Smith, " On the Infantile Pulse in Health" (' Amer. Med. Times,' Dec, 1863). , m The average pulse of the healthy infant, according to Trousseau, is n? in the first and second months, 128 from the 3rd to the 6th month and 120 from the 6th to the 12th month. Dr. Smith records the results of a series of observations on the pulse of infants under the acTQ of one year, ascertained by auscultation during the three conditions of sleep, wakefulness and excitement. These observations, though acTeeing closely in the main with those of Trousseau, show a uiarked dfminution of the pulse in sleep, except in the first week of li e. If the pulse of the infant when awake, but quiet, be taken as tlie standard, there is an average reduction of 21 beats per minute trora the end of the ist week till the end of the ist month, 13^ Irom