llEl'OUT ON T0XIC0L0C5Y AND MATERIA MEDICA. 450 he thinks it ought to be employed generally for the administration of powerful remedies to patients. He noticed the following diflerencea in the action of the opium principles. Among morphia, narceine, codeia, narcotine, papavcrino, and tliebaina, only the first three produce sleep, and differences are observable in the kind of sleep which follows the administration of these substances. That which is caused by narceiue is, for equal doses, by far the most deep ; that of morphia is less profound, and that of codeia is still less so. There is least sen- sibility to noise after tlie administration of narceine ; but insensibility to pain is most complete when morphia is the substance employed. The mode of waking also is different. When the effects of morphia are passing off, dogs (and also other animals) often appear alarmed ; their eyes have a wild look, and their posterior extremities are half paralysed, so that their M'^alk resembles that of the hyaena. "When called they are terrified, and they do not recognise their master. At the end of 12 hours, however, they have regained their usual state of health. On the other hand, after the administi-ation of codeia dogs awake without alarm and without disturbance of the intelligence, and the effects of narceine are similar. These observations accord with the fact that the sleep produced by codeia is not followed by headache in man, as is the case with morphia. Experiments are now being made to ascertain whether narceine resembles codeia in this respect in its effects upon man also. The toxic powers of the different alkaloids are also very various, and have no direct relation to their soporific action. Bernard finds that thebaina is the most active poison among them, and that codeia is also fatal in a much smaller dose than morphia.* All the opium principles produce convulsions when given in poisonous ones, with the exception of narceine. Animals poisoned by that substance die with relaxed muscles. M. Berthe has obtained from codeia therapeutical effects such as would be expected from the experiments of Bernard (' Comp. llend.,' 59, p. 914). In 45 cases in which he gave this alkaloid, with the object of inducing sleep, he obtained effects which seem to him to place this remedy in the first rank of sedatives and narcotics. It is instructive to compare the high-flown language of M. Berths with the statement of Dr. Garrod, in his lectures at the College of Physicians ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864), that hydrochlorate of codeia failed altogether to produce sleep when given in doses of gr. i—3 in cases of restlessness and wakefulness; and that 5 grains of it gave no relief in a case of neuralgia, in which the pain was repeatedly alleviated by half a grain of the hydrochlorate of morphia. JRanunculacece. Aconiium Wapellus.—Messrs. T. and II. Smith, ('Phar. Journ.,' 5, p. 317) have obtained from this plant a new crystalline principle, to which they give the name of Aconella. It appears not to be poisonous, aud its presence is probably the cause of the comparative inertness of some * These statements appear to rest 011 experiments made upon young sparrows.