ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 447 on the label that the drug contains 25 per cent, of citrate of quinine. Out of 15 such samples 6 contained less than 10 per cent, of that salt. JRtibiacece. M. Pecholier (' Bull, de Ther.,' 66, p. 205) has submitted to the Academy of Sciences a resume of his researches as to the therapeutical action of ipecacuanha, a work which forms a natural complement to his well-known investigations as to the physiological action of this drug. His observations were made on patients suffering with pneumonia, acute febrUe bronchitis, capillary bronchitis, and the pulmonary en- gorgement of typhoid fever. The results he obtained were the follow- ing:—I. Nausea and vomiting were not invariably produced, and often occurred only at the commencement of the treatment; sometimes, how- ever, they persisted, and compelled the abandonment of the remedy; and generally when it was given for more than a weelc they returned and caused permanent intolerance. 2. The rapidity of the pulse and of the respiration, as well as the animal heat, were lowered. 3. The expectoration became more abundant and easy; the sputa in pneu- monia less coloured. 4. The stethoscopic signs improved. 5. The powers were not lowered, while the violence of the disease and the morbid reaction were both checked, so that recovery was rapid and certain. In comparison with tartarised antimony, Pecholier found the action of ipecacuanha more rapid, less profound, and less prolonged. He does not recommend its employment in all cases of pneumonia, but especially in a form of the disease to which he gives the name " catarrhal pneumonia," and which would seem to be a milder affection than the iji- flammatory variety, in which last, according to Pecholier, venesection and antimony are required. In febrile bronchitis he finds that ipecacu- anha hastens the disappearance of the fever and of the cough, and quickens the convalescence. In capillary bronchitis it is less useful. In these observations the remedy was always used in large doses, varying from four to six and even ten grammes daily, in the form of infusion. Small quantities of opium and of syrup of digitalis were usually combined with it. Sydrangeacece. Prof Bentley (' Pharm. Journ.,' 5, p. 310) gives an account of the Hydrangea arhoreseens. The root is the part employed in medicine. It has been found, on chemical analysis, not to contain anything to account for its reputed properties, except a quantity of mucilage. It is said to be very useful in calculous diseases, and to relieve the pain caused by the passage of a calcvdus through the ureter. It is adminis- tered as a fluid extract, in doses of a drachm twice or thrice daily. Leguminosce. Physostigma venenoaum,—Jobst and Hesse (' Ann. d. Chem. u. Phar.,' 129, p. 115) have succeeded in isolating the active principle of the Calabar bean, to which they give the name j)hysostigmin. It is ob-