EEPOET ON SURGERY. 266 some parts. This danger might be incurred in a sacculated aneurism also, if wire enough were not introduced, because of the large intervals which Avould bo loft between the few coils of wire. The wire would remain in the solidified aneurism, and be harmless." A case is then related of saccular aneurism of tlie ascending aorta projecting tlirough the anterior wall of the left side of the chest, in which this treatment was employed. " The operation consisted in the in- troduction of a quantity of line iron wire into the aneurism, with the object of inducing coagulation. A small pointed canula was inserted into the tumoui-, aud the wire was passed in through this without difficulty. The operation occupied one hour, and the quantity of wire introduced was twenty-six yards. It gave rise to no pain or inconvenience except a slight and transient feeling of faintness. The quantity of blood lost did not exceed half a fluid ounce. The immediate effects of the opera- tion were a reduction of the pulse from ii6 to 92, an almost complete cessation of the pulsation in the tumour, and a diminution in its size. Immediately before the operation, the circumference of its base was sixteen and three quarter inches; at the close of the operation it was sixteen inches. These changes began to be noticed soon after the com- mencement of the operation, and became more marked as it was pro- ceeded with. At iij p.m. the patient was asleep, and his pulse was only 78. He slept comfortably during the night, and had no bad symptom nntil the following morning." He was then attacked by a severe rigor, foUoAved by great pain, violent action of the heart, intense thirst, &c. Death occurred in four days and twenty and a half hours after the opei'ation. "An autopsy was performed a few hours after death. The walls of the external tumour were formed by the integuments and fibres of the pectoral muscle, infiltrated with serum. They were nowhere less than a quarter of an inch in thickness. The skin covering a great part of the tumour presented a deep livid hue. The interior of the tumour was filled, for the most part, with a fibrinous coagulum, enveloping and imbedded in the coils of wire, and firmly adherent to the surrounding walls. The rest of the cavity contained fluid black blood. The interior of the outer tumour was nowhere lined with a prolongation of the arterial coats; but it communicated with the proper aneurismal sac within the chest by two large openings iu the first and second left intercostal spaces, the intervening rib being bare and eroded, and at one place broken through. The aneurismal tumour within the chest was about the size of a man's fist. It lay im- mediately behind the sternum; it encroached slightly upon the upper lobe of the left lung, and inferiorly it rested upon the right am-icle. It was partially filled with a fibrinous coagulum, which was continuous with that iu the outer tumour, and was adherent at one part over a space measuring about one third of an inch in diameter. It communi- cated by a circular opening, scarcely so large as a sixpence, with the ascending aorta. Through this opening a clot projected from the aneurism into the vessel, and extended downwards into the heart, and upwards into the arch. The greater part of this clot was evidently of post-mortem date ; but part of it, close to the opening, was pale, firm, and laminated." The cff'ccts of old disease of the lungs and of recent