371 MECHANISM OF DELIVEUY. ever, be coutra-indicated in the presence of acute symptoms of hysteritis or peritonitis, or with probable ulceration in the uterine walls, or, lastly, where the case has been of long standing, and no symptoms exist of intolerance of the uterine tumour. The case related by Dr. McClintock was a large flabby woman, set. 45, who had given birth to twelve living children, then a dead child at full term, soon after which she conceived again. Gestation proceeded naturally till about the 7th month, when the foetus probably died. Symptoms of labour set in at the end of the ninth mouth, but passed ofl^ without expulsion of the foetus. Five iceehs after this she was seized with severe pains and hajmorrhage, and a foetal bone was removed from the vagina by the practitioner in attendance. Sixty-two weeks after this she came under the author's care, and during the greater part of this interval a horribly offensive and very profuse vaginal discharge was going on, and some few bones had come away, but hsemorrhage was absent, and she was not aware of the placenta having been expelled. She w^is admitted into a hospital, and, after eight attempts had been made to remove the bones,—of which about sixty pieces were extracted,—she died with symptoms of pyaemia. No post-mortem examination was obtained. MECHANISM OF DELITEET. Hodge, Dr. H. L., " On the Mechanism of Labour" (' Principles and Practice of Obstetrics,' 1864). Dr. Hodge describes four parallel planes through which he believes the head passes in its course to the floor of the pelvis :—i. The brim of the pelvis. 2. A plane running from the sub-pubic ligament to the middle of the second bone of the sacrum. 3. A line on the level with , the spines of the ischia, where the cavity becomes rapidly contracted, and where "rotation" begins. 4. A line extending round the ex- tremity of the coccyx as a centre. Prom a consideration of these points Dr. Hodge believes that the top of the head descends in a straight line to the axis of the superior strait until it reaches the floor of the pelvis ; that when it is as low as the coccyx the base of the cranium will reach above the level of the sub-pubic ligament; the head, therefore, has to depress the coccyx before the base can pass under the arch. Having done so, the nape of the neck remains directly under the pelvis, and the rest of the head describes the segment of a circle around the sub-pubic ligament as a centre, so that the true axis of the pelvis is formed by a line drawn from the centre of the superior strait through the centre of the radii of a circle thus formed, which line will be straight from the first to the second parallel plane, but curved from that point downwards. In tracing the head through the pelvis Dr. Hodge does not adopt M. Cazeaux' divisions, viz., those of flexion, descent, extension, rotation and external rotation, but recognises five periods:—(i) The passage of the head through the superior strait and through tlie os ixteri. (2) The descent through the cavity of the pelvis {.]) The passage through the inferior strait. (4) That throu"-h the