74 RBPOET ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. tho commoncenuMit of recovery, lest the dangerous Bymptoms recur. The appearances after death, where there is no complication or co-existent disease, are pretty constant and unvarying. Irregular patches of a livid red colour arc seen scattered over the whole external surface of the body, those over the neck and dependent parts being large, while those on the anterior surface are smaller and more numerous. These blotches not un- frequently begin to form before life is extinct. The whole body retains the animal heat for a long time. The encephalon and its membranes are found congested, and the veins and sinuses full of dark blood. A quantity of clear serum is generally discovered at the base of the brain, and the lateral ventricles are also full, while their choroid plexuses are gene- rally pale and shrivelled. The lungs are gorged with dark blood, and the bronchi filled with frothy mucus. The right side of the heart generally contains fluid or semi-fluid blood, and the left side is empty. The liver, spleen, and kidneys partake of the general congestion. The blood throughout the body is of a dark colour, and fluid. Bonnyman advocates the theory, that the symptoms are the result of the poisonous action of retained carbonic acid, the elimination of which by the lungs is materially less in hot weather, while in heat-apoplexy not only do the other emune- tories not make up by an increase in their functions for the deficient respiratory changes, but they themselves also cease in great measure to perform their depuratory office. And when it is borne in mind how absolutely necessary for the welfare of the body, and even for the existence of life, the proper performance of the functions is, it cannot be matter of surprise that on the interruption of function of so many important organs, as the lungs, kidneys, skin, and intestines, disease of a grave character should result. That the retention in the system of matters that ought to be eliminated, is intimately concerned in the production of the disease, is further demonstrated by the large quantities of black morbid matters, that continue for some time afterwards to be evacuated from the bowels of those who recover from the malady. Bonnyman points to the coin- cidence of the symptoms as well as of the post-mortem appearances in slow poisoning by carbonic acid, as described by Dr. Golding Bird, with those met with in beat-apoplexy. Cases of intermittent and of remittent fever not unfrequently terminate in heat apoplexy ; and in these the patients are said to die a^yoplectic, though in the mortality returns death is ascribed to the disease for which the patients were admitted into hospi- tal, namel}^, fever. On this account, the number of those who die of heat-apoplexy, often appears less than it really is. Bonnyman believes that further investigation will probably show that malarious fevers and heat-apoplexy are due to the same or to closely allied causes. It has been seen that the latter of these affections acknowledges great and con- tinued heat as its essential cause. And though marsh exhalations are doubtless very frequent causes of periodic fevers, yet great atmospheric heat appears also to be often their sole cause. He says of the 89th regi- ment, to which he is attached, that during its service in India it has never been stationed in marshy localities. The men may have often passed through unhealthy tracts of country, and been exposed to privation m many ways, but it was when quartered in very hot stations that they Buffered most from fevers. He mentions particularly Deesa, Neemuch,