49 GEISTEKAL SYSTEM. condition of tlie intestinal glands was such as to indicate that the patient had suffered with typhoid fever about 4 or 5 weeks. In some of the solitarv glands the typhoid deposit appeared to be of a more recent date than that in the rest, which led Dr. Grull to suggest that he might have had a double typhoid. At the same time he observed tliat it was an interesting case, "for not even the post-mortem had made it appear so satisftictory as he anticipated, and if the patient has died of the pri-^ mary attack of typhoid it has occurred at an unusually hate period of the disease. On inquiry being made it appehred that he lived in au ill-drained locality, but no case of typhus fever had occurred in his family nor among liis friends. Typhus however was present in the ward where he lay in tlie hospital. The probability therefore is, that he was approaching towards recovery from typhoid when he caught typhus and died of it. Dr. "NVilks mentioned on the occasion a case of typhoid with characteristic spots and intestinal lesion in which shortly befoi-e death the eruption resembled typhus. The reporter observes that from his observation at the various metropolitan hospitals it is sometimes impossible in the early stage of continued fever to say whether it is typhus or typhoid; for the eruption in the commencement of typhus may so closely resemble in all its characteristics that of typhoid, and unless it is borne in mind that it is the manner of deve- lopment of the spots, and not their appearance to the eye, which esta- blishes the diagnosis between the two fevers, a mistake is not unlikely to be made. l)r. Peacock mentions a case in which the eruption when first seen bore an exact resemblance to the usual appearance of typhoid spots, and it was only by watching the case that the true character of the rash was made apparent. The case turned out to be typhus. Moreover there may be no eruption. This is especially so in children, and in mild cases in adults, or the spots of typhus may be few and dis- crete, or the eruption of typhoid may be so copious tha-t it is impossible to tell whether there are any new spots, or lastly, as above mentioned, the skin may put on a mottled appearance just before death like that of typhus. EussELL, J. B., M.D.—Analysis of 300 cases of Typhus. Glasgow Med. Jour., July, 1864. From Nov. 24, 1863, to April 13, 1864, there were admitted into the fever wards of the Town Hospital, Glasgow, 323 cases of typhus, and 4 of enteric fever. The circumstances under which these cases arose were over-crowding, personal and general filthiness, and poverty. \ Privation however was not a characteristic of these patients. In the great majority of cases, one would have pronounced them persons in the f enjoyment of health, and well nourished. In not above 10 per cent. I were there evident signs of starvation, or even of deficient nutrition. I Over-crowding and want of cleanliness were, however, marked features \ of these cases. The average numbers given as sleeping in one apart- I mcnt, varied from 5 to 15. Occupation did not seem to exercise any I inlluence in predisposing to typhus, excepting in so far as by its nature it subjected the patient for longer or shorter periods to the influence of the poison. Thus the trade of shocmaking furnished quite a remarkable 4 I