MORTALITY AFTER OPEEATIONS. 199 accordino- to the temperature, this faculty disappearing during the heat of summer°in less than two days. Dried blood may retain the power of propa"-ation providing it be rapidly desiccated prior to putrefaction; and it is Inchly probable that dried bacterides transmit the disease in Hocks of sheep through the medium of the respiratory organs. The disease may, too, be transmitted by the agency of the digestive organs, though less certainly than by subcutaneous inoculation. The duration of the period of incubation, after inoculation with fresh blood, has in Davaine's experi- ments varied with the size of the animal, but the rapidity of the occurrence of death has not been found to be in proportion to the number of bacterides produced. They multiply within a very few hours after they first appear, but cease to multiply after the death of the infected animal. Inoculated rabbits lived from eighteen to seventy-seven hours, a mean of forty hours ; but only five hours after the bacterides appeared, thus giving thirty-five hours as the mean period of incubation. The blood in the heart and large vessels was found firmly coagulated." Mr. Wells then alludes to the recent researches on trichinosis, to the dependence of various skin diseases upon the growth of vegetable parasites, and to the production of measles by the inoculation or inhalation of the fungi given off from, mouldy straw or linseed meal. He adds :— " But the real practical end of all our work—the prevention and cure of disease—the lowering of excessive mortality—must not be lost sight of. And here, fortunately, the recent experiments of PoUi, of Milan, on the action of sulphurous acid and the alkaline and earthy sulphites, open to us a wide field for inquiry, brightened by cheerful rays of hope." These researches having been already noticed in the Year-Book for 1862 (p. 215), it is only necessary to remark that—" (i) the sulphites should be given as long as possible after food, unless it is especially desired to neutralize the fermentative action of the gastric and pancreatic juice; and (2) that nothing containing citric, tartaric, malic, or oxalic acid, should be taken after them, as these acids decompose the sulphites and hyposulphites, and set the sulphurous acid free. But acetic acid does not decompose these salts." " The sulphite of magnesia in the solid form answers well for internal administration.* It contains more sulphurous acid than other sulphites, and is not disagreeable. The sulphite of soda is disagreeable, easily decom- poses, and is chiefly useful in solution for lotions or enemas. The sulphites of potash and ammonia are too disagreeable and changeable for medical use. The hyposulphite of soda is not very disagreeable; its solubility makes it convenient for administration, but it is more adapted for pro- phylactic use than for severe cases, its action being much slower than that of the sulphites, as it must be converted into a nascent sulphite before the wi-shed-for effect can be obtained. " Some cases of septicajmia in which I have given the hyposulphite of soda having been already brought before the profession, I will now only add, that the effects convinced me that it is a remedy of great value, well worthy of a general and extended trial. But I trust that no such exagge- rated expectations will be entertained of its value, or of that of any other remedy, as could possil)ly lead any one. to neglect those leading principles of sanitary science which should govern the size and construction of our * Up to three or four drachms daily.—T. W,