20 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. ofclior channels. (2) In spite of the obliteration, and although no other vessel replaces it, the biliary secretion continues. This secretion, therefore, like all the others, draws its material from the arterial blood. (3) The secretion of sugar persists in spite of complete portal obliteration ; this substance is, therefore, as C. Bernard holds, a proper secretion of the liver, and completel^^ independent of the food. (4) Experiment shows that the hepatic sugar proceeds from albuminoid substances; during abstinence, therefore, it is formed at the expense of the albuminous sub- stances of the Mood. (<;) Since the secretion continues in spite of obli- teration of the portal vein, are we not led to conclude that in this case it is tlie blood of the hepatic artery which furnishes to the liver the materials of this secretion ? (6) Lastly, the decoloration, the atroph}', and the changes in the textures of the liver which supervene on oblitera- tion of the portal vein, seem to prove that it is the principal nutritive vessel of the liver, while the artery serves almost exclusively for its secretions. Pathology eonfirms Dr. Ore's views in respect to the secretion of bile. Ill not one of 34 eases of obliteration of the portal vein in man, collected by M. Gintrac, of Bordeaux, in 1856, was the biliary secretion inter- rupted. Effect of Alkalies on the secretion of Bile.—H. Nasse observed in dogs that the carbonate of soda greatly diminished the secretion of bile. A dog of about 2 5 pounds' weight with a biliary fistula received twice a day i-] pound of potatoes, a diet on which he did not lose weight. The bile was scantier than on a meat diet; on 2 days 113 and ioi"6 grms. (4 and 3 6 oz.) were secreted. There were then added to the food for 3 days 4 grm. (61'7 grains) crystals [z= 22'6 grains anhydrous] of carbonate of soda, and the secretion of bile was only 54*5, 46'!, and 35'8 gnu. (from I'8 to i'2 0z.). The diminution continued for 3 days after the soda was discontinued, and it reappeared when the soda was again ad- ministered. In a previous experiment it was noticed that the diminution affected the solid portions of the bile, and especially the biliary salts, more than the water. Nasse also found, after taking 8 grm. (123 grains) of carbonate of soda that the following night's urine was very rich in hippuric acid. ('Arch, fur Wissenschaftliche Heilkunde,' 6, p. 508.^ Constituents of Bile.—T. Antisell reports ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,' Jan., 1864, p. 91) some examinations of the bile made by means of dialysis. The distended gall-bladders of patients who had died from chronic diarrhoea were suspended consecutively in alcohol fSi per cent.), ether, chloroform, and coal oil, for periods of from 24 to 48 hours. By this means all the component principles of the supernatant bile are separated except epithelium, granular and mucous corpuscles. Admitting that the bile is taken from diseased persons, he observes that his object is rather to show what is actually found in human bile rather than to describe the characters of the normal fluid. His conclusions are—(i) The organized matters of the bile are derived from the hepatic cells-—chiefly its inner granular matter—and from the epithelium lining the bile-duct. (2) The fats of the bile are the fats of the bile-cell, and have sufl'ered no alteration except their escape from inside the cell. (3) The bile contains two distinct colouring matters—the yellow and the brown—both of cellular