SECRETOKY SYSTEM. 157 canula that has slipped out. (7) A strong close of morphia should be given immediately after the operation, which is generally attended with great relief and followed by refreshing sleep. (8) The poultice should be changed twice or oftener in the twenty-four hours; and at his morning visit the surgeon should see to the opening, and aid the dis- charge by very gentle general pressure over the side, avoiding manual interference. (9) About the third day the canula may be replaced by a tent-sponge, or by lint dipped in oil, which should be changed daily. (10) A liberal diet, with porter and wine, should be supplied; and, Avhere possible, the food should be such as the patient may prefer and relish. (11) All matters going on well, the discharge will gradually lessen, while the patient will regain strength, the probe showing that the depth of the cavity is decreasing, while tumidness of the side Avill disappear. Presently a clear mucous, gleety-looking fluid replaces the pus, and finally the wound closes. (12) If, on the other hand, the case tends badly, either from the existence of a plurality of abscesses, the great size of the one opened, or an absence of power in the con- stitution to repair the damage, it is denoted by continuance of hectic and by wasting discharge. Martin refers to some remarkable experi- ence published by Cameron and Templeton, and corroborates their statements by the good results which accrued from the same treatment in a case recently under his own care. Oppolzee.—On Syphilis of ilie Liver. Wien. Med. Halle, 4, 1863, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 179. Syphilitic disease of the liver shows itself—(i) as simple perihepatitis ; (2) as interstitial; (3) as gummatous hepatitis; (4) as colloid or amyloid degeneration of the liver. All these forms may either exist separately or, as more frequently happens, they may be variously asso- ciated together. Perihepatitis especially occurs but very rarely alone, but is generally complicated with interstitial inflammation. So also the gummatous form is apt to be complicated with amyloid or bacony de- generation of the liver. In perihepatitis we usually find very hard callous thickenings of the capsule of the liver, which on the one side almost constantly lead to adhesions with the adjacent organs, especially with the diaphragm, more rarely with the colon and stomach; and on the other traverse the pai-enchyma of the liver itself, especially its convex surface, and give it an irregular-lobed shape. If they are incised a tendinous, vascular, fibrous tissue is met with, which extends to a greater or less depth from the thickened capsule into the glandular parenchyma, which is mostly atrophied. One lobe may be thus affected, or the whole organ. In the gummatous form we find in a a normal or bacony liver, or in the above-described cicatricial tissue, masses of deposit varying from the size of a bean to that of a walnut, consisting of a whitish or yellowish cheesy substance. These masses sometimes are converted into a chalky pap or into calcareous concretions. Their substance is for the most part traversed by fibrous bands, but they are sometimes met with in the midst of normal parenchyma. The large divisions of the portal vein, of tlie hepatic artery aud duct usually, but not alvvavs, are uninvolved. On the degree in which they are affected depends the