EEPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MA'l'KItlA MEDICA. 432 from wliicli sho could at first be rouBed by questioning; vomiting and diiirrlioia were also present, and she died on the evening of April 2J, just 6 days after the inunction of tlie ointment. The autopsy showed tliat the stomach and small intestine were inflamed ; both the serous and raucous surfaces of these viscera were of a bright-red colour. Mercury was found by chemical analysis in the kidneys of the first patient, and that metal was, perhaps, present also in some of the other organs. In the viscera of the second patient no trace of mercury was detected. The bai'ber who practised the inunction appears to have used his naked hand, but suflered no ill eftects from it. The quantity of corrosive sublimate in the ointment was never ascertained. Tarpeth Mineral—Taylor ('Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' 1864, p. 180) relates a case of poisoning by this substance. Forty grains appear to have been taken, having been dispensed by a druggist by mistake for asthiops mineral. Violent purging and vomiting came on within 10 minutes, with slow and small pulse, cold and clauimy skin. 'J'he patient also complained from the very first of soreness in the mouth and throat, and the saliva continually ran from his mouth. White of egg was administered to him, but was rejected from the stomach, mixed with a yellow powder, and afterwards mucus and blood were vomited in small quantities. The next morning the lips, gums, fauces, and tongue, were swollen, and mercurial fetor of the breath was noticed. Among the later symptoms were delirium, headache, and restlessness. He was sensible within a few hours of his death, which occurred at the end of 10 days from the time of his swallowing the poison. The mouth, lips, gums, palate, and fauces, were covered on their inner surface mth black sloughs. The intestinal mucous membrane was softened and presented dark-coloured patches at intervals. OEGANIO SUBSTANCES. Melanthacece. Dr. James Watson ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Jan., 1864, p. 616) pub- lishes some observations with reference to the physiological eii'ects of the veratrum viride. It had been stated that this drug acts as an arterial sedative, without depressing the vital powers. Dr. Watson found that it had no such action. He took the tincture himself, and also administered it to patients in the Avards of the Infirmary at Edin- burgh. He slates that it produced extreme and most painful nausea, and that it was only after this occurred that the rapidity of the pulse was diminished. Prof Schroff has made a series of experiments on rabbits, with the object of determining the relative activity of the veratrum viride and the veratrum album ('Wien. Ztschrft. Med. Jahrbiicher,' 19, 2, p. 129, 1863; 'Schmidt,' 122, p. 31). The preparations which he used for this purpose were all made by himself I'rom the two plants in the same way. On comparing tlie spirituous extracts, that of the veratrum album was found to be the poorer in extractive matters, but it contained a large quantity of ci-ystals of different forms. These crystals had previously