419 GENERAL THERAPEUTICS. action. Similarly, a dose of ammonia or of brandy aud water is often found to ward off an impending epileptic fit, aud wine or brandy, in minute doses, has a most marlced effect in arresting the convulsions of children. Delirium, again, is often checked by the action of stimulants, as was clearly proved by the practice of Dr. Todd. The effects of stimulants and of foods being thus very similar, Dr. Austie proceeds to discuss whether they present any points of difference. He denies altogether that stimulation leads invariably to reaction. He shows that the notion of a depressive recoil, following the action of stimuli, had its origin in the old vitalistic ideas, and that its occurrence is not required to make perfect the more modern theories. As a matter of fact, he shows that no depression occurs after the ingestion of a glass or two of wine, or of a small quantity of ammonia, or after taking a hot bath. Their effects after a time subside, just as do those of food, but they leave no depression behind them. It might appear to be an important difference between stimulants and foods that stimulant drugs make no considerable increment to the bulk of the tissues, but there is some evidence to prove that, under some circumstances, stimu- lants can take the place of ordinary food. Dr. Anstie relates cases of acute disease in wliich nothing but brandy or gin was taken for several days, and yet the patient recovered without much emaciation. He also records an extraordinary case, in which, according to the evidence, an old man lived for years on a bottle of gin daily, with only a small finger- length of bread and a few pipes of tobacco. Dr. Anstie does not ap- pear to believe that this action of alcohol and of similar substances is due to a power of diminishing the amount of chemical change which occurs in the different tissues. Passing on to the discussion of nai'cosis, Dr. Anstie considers that narcotics are best defined as deadening agents which diminish the activity of the nervous system, and whose direct tendency is, therefore, to pro- duce death. He thinks that there is no advantage in separating seda- tives from narcotics ; and he uses the two terms as synonymous. Two of the agents said to be most markedly sedative, tobacco and digitalis, are regarded by him as stimulants when administered in certain doses ; and he shows that the shock-like action on the heart is not peculiar to these and similar drugs, for under some circumstances opium may pro- duce like efiects. This sudden depression of the heart'.s action depends very much on the dose and on the circumstances under which it is taken. The production of sleep, for which he uses the word " hypnotism," is not, according to Dr. Anstie, among the effects caused by narcotics. Their tendency is to produce coma, and he regards even the slighter forms of this, though they resemble sleep, as essentially different from it. He includes, however, among the eflects of narcotics, not only clonic, but also tetanic, spasms, chiefly on the ground that they are produced in the lower animals, and sometimes in the human subject, by the action of true narcotics, such as opium. The next point which he proceeds to consider is the relation between the stimulant and narcotic action of the same substances, such as opium aud alcohol. If alcohol be taken in small quantities, frequently