133 KESPIllATORY SYSTEM. 111 numerous eases fiits are borne well and may be given with advantage, but in all cases it must be borne in mind that, a somewhat rapid and material increase in the bulk of the body (a condition which will be due in part to the increase of deposited fat) "is a sure precursor of an attack of the disease. Smith afSms that the improvement effected by such a plan is past belief by those who have not witnessed it. Hyde Salter. On the value of Ghloroform in the treatment of Asthma. Lancet, Nov. 5. Out of 13 cases in which Salter has employed chloroform it did good in 12; m I it did positive harm, increasing the asthma. A more common fault of it, and a very serious one, is that the relief which it gives is transient, and in many cases merely coextensive with the insensibility which it produces. Indeed, it is the ride for the beneficial effect of the chloroform to pass off in a greater or less degree with the insensi- bility. This, however, is not always the case, for in some instances, when the insensibility passes off, the asthma does not reappear ; in some the relief is produced without any insensibility whatever ; and in some a very small dose is sufficient to give relief, the patient immediately passing into a tranquil sleep, which may continue for hours, and from which he will wake with the asthma gone, although the original dose was far short of enough to produce the true chloroform sleep. Salter believes chloroform to act usually on the nervous system, but he has seen one case in which it appeared to act directly on the bronchial muscle, because the effect was so immediate. Salter has no fear of administering chloroform so long as the dyspnoea is purely of nervous origin, and his experience does not induce him to believe that the presence of valvular disease or muscular weakness of the heart adds anything to the danger of chloroform, unless these conditions exist to such an extent as materially to affect the circulation. Idiosyncrasy of nervous organization is, he believes, the circumstance that determines whether chloroform shall exercise a fatal influence on the heart's action. In one case, which he relates at length, the chloroform produced, after some hours, nausea and a copious secretion of viscid saliva, which con- tinued, gradually diminishing, till the second or third day. Besides these effects certain more remote results gradually developed themselves, in proportion to the length of time'that the habit had existed and the increased quantity taken on each occasion. These were insomnia, deaf- ness, apathy, tremulousness of hands, increase of the asthmatic tendency. The most strongly marked, and the most distressing of all, was tlie insomnia. It came on very gradually, and for a long time the cause of it was not suspected. The increased tendency to asthma depended probably on the chloroform rendering the nervous system more suscep- tible, shaky, and irritable. In another remarkable case the asthma never came on when the patient was asleep, and if she could in any way get to sleep tlie asthma was sure to cease ; chloroform only gave her permanent relief when it was inhaled at such a time when she would, if free from her asthma, be likely to sleep continuously.