54 EEPOUT ON PHACTICAL MEDICINE. EoGEB.—On the sligld form of Scarlatina and Scarlatinal JDropsij. Edin. Med. Journ., Aug.; Journ, do Med. and de Chir. pratiq. There liavo been lately in the Hopital des Enfants Malades a great many cases of what Roger calls " searlatinettes." They were cases of scarlatina extremely slight, so fugacious, that the characters of scarlatina passed unobserved. Nevertheless, the disease of which the external manifestations were so slight was still present, and if the patients, apparently in good health, and recovered from a seemingly trivial erup- tion, were exposed to cold, hajmaturia or dropsy, sometimes fatal, made their appearance. In one case an impression of fear appeared to play the part of exposure to cold, and produced anasarca in a girl a;t. 4, who her parents declared had escaped from the scarlatina her sister had had, but who really had had the disease so slightly that even maternal solicitude Lad not detected its existence. After enumerating the distinctions whicli M. Almeras points out between scarlatina and various imitative exanthe- mata. Koger proceeds to caution that as the points of resemblance between them are numerous, and as in times of epidemic it is very diffi- cult to distinguish them, it is prudent when any doubt exists to act as if the disease were scarlatina, and to make children keep to their bedroom for at least 14 days if they have presented any trace of an equivocal eruption. Tliese little characterised forms merit serious attention, because they are as much, if not more likely than the others, to be followed hy one of the most formidable accidents of scarlatina—dropsy with albuminuria. Eoger does not admit that anasarca may occur during the whole period of des- quamation ; he thinks that the patients who have been attacked with it at a later period than that indicated above (3 weeks), had a chronic Bright's disease connected with a persistent scarlatinal albuminuria, or an acute Bright's disease independent of scarlatina, which is not very rare among children. Among the precursors of anasarca vomiting should be noted. If between the loth and 20th days of scarlatina a child becomes a little feverish and vomits, we may apprehend anasarca; the latter generally appears the next or the following day, and is characterised by a deceitful appearance of stoutness. In half the cases the dropsy remains external, in the other half you have internal effusions. So long as there is only abdominal dropsy matters are not very serious, but it is different when serum accumulates in the pleura, for as the effusion is generally double, and the pulmonary substanCe is infiltrated extreme embarrassment of breathing is the result. To this dropsy oedema of the glottis is some- times added, for which it is necessary to perform tracheotomj-. But of all effusions the most dangerous is the encephalic, which may assume the comatose, the paralytic, or the convulsive form. With regard to the effusions which occur under these circumstances Roger says that, though the prognosis is very grave, the patients who manifest them re- cover in the proportion of one third. The curative treatment will vary according to the form of dropsy. If it is febrile, active, if the tissues affected arc of a rosy colour, if the skin be hot, sanguineous emissions arc indicated. This is still more the case if there is oedema of the lungs. Bleeding then gives manifest relief; bleeding from the arm is preferable to leeches or cupping, which may produce erythema or erysipelas. If there are cerebral symptoms we may apply leeches to the mastoid pro-