IIKPOIIT ON Sl llOKllY. 29G p. 12). Pi'of. Sc-luili on amputation by the mc/Jiod of Grilli ('Wicii. Med. AVoohenschr.,' J864, p. i). G. it. Symee on amputation al. the ankle-joint ('Dubl. Quart. Jo\irn.,' vol. .37, p. 65). Dr. Mosetig, case of Chopart's operation as modilied by Blasius (' AVien. Med. Hallo,' 1864, p. 295). SPECIAL SUaOERY. HEAD. W. F. Teevan, e3>perimcntal inq^uiries into certain wonnds of the sJcuJl (' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eeview,' vol. 34, p. 205).—The experi- ments (125 in number; were made witli a view of determining, " firstly, what generally are tbe comparative varying forms of the apertures of entry and exit; and, secondly, to inquire into the causation of a fact ascertained in the course of experiment—the always relatively greater size of the aperture of exit." If a bullet be fired at the outside of a skull, with a full charge of powdei', close and at right angles to the part to be struck, a wound is produced which, for practical purposes, may usefully be called a typical wound. " The aperture of entry in the external table is cleanly cut, and of exactly the same shape and size as the circumference of the bullet, the opening merely sufficing to admit the bullet, and looking very much as if it had been made by a trephine. There is never any splintering or Assuring about the edges. If the aperture of exit in the internal plate be examined, it will be found considerably larger than the aperture of entry ; its circumference will generallj^ be irregular, though rarely having sj^linters attached to or fissures radiating from its edge. The average diameter of the aperture of exit exceeds that of the aperture of entry by about one third. The average irregularity in the aperture of entry seldom equals a line, whereas the irregularity in the aperture of exit generally varies from one eighth of an inch to half an inch. The size and shape of the aperture of entry made by a shot fired under the conditions already laid down never vary, whether the skull be thick or thin, hard or comparatively soft; not so with the aperture of exit, which attains its maximum size and irregularity in thick or hard skulls, and its minimum size and irregularity in soft or thin skulls. If a head be taken off, and then fixed, and a shot be fired through the foramen magnum into the skull, the above descrip- tions will equally apply and be found to be true, if instead of aperture of entry in the external table we read aperture of entry in the internal table, and if instead of aperture of exit in the internal table we substi- tute aperture of exit in the external plate—thus clearly proving that the aperture of exit of a bullet is always larger than that of its entry. In no instance was there a single exception to this rule, neither have I been able to find one in the specimens in the different museums." " That bullet whose velocity can be reduced to the lowest compatible^ with its penetrating the skull will produce the greatest amount of damage. Hence, if the distance be gradually increased, or the amount of the charge of powder be gradually decreased, a correspondin},'iy increased amount of damage will be produced. Bullets goijig at low