GENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 359 foetus ; if we operate later than 8 minutes after the death of the mother we cannot even extract an "apparently dead" fostus; the young are by that time always dead. (7) Death frequently occurs earlier with the unborn foetus; indeed, after a few minutes. (8) The mode of death of the mother does not seem to be without influence upon the life and death of the foetus. Death of the mother by asphyxia is unfavorable to the foetus; death by hasmorrhage is more favorable, as also death by chloroform and by paralysis of tlie nerve- centres. (9) The foetus of the hare, although at the end of utero-gestation proportionably smaller and less developed than that of the guinea-pig, appears to be more independent of the death of the mother than the latter. (ro) It appears to be of importance to the continuaace of life whether the foetus is mature or immature, but the experiments on this point convey no satisfactory evidence. Prom these results the author considers the following applications may be made to the human foetus, and to practical midwifery: 1. There can be no doubt that the human foetus, like the brute, always survives its mother if the mode of death be rapid and violent— as from hfemorrhage, asphyxia, blows on the head, apoplexy, &c. 2. The power of resistance of the human foetus is greater than that of the brute; hence the human foetus will louger survive the violent death of its mother. 3. The duty of every physician is always, after the proved death of the mother, to make the Ca^sarcan section as soon as possible, in order to save the life of the child. This, however, may be avoided if the previous death of the foetus be certain, or if delivery can be accomplished more safely and speedily in the natural way, 4. The Ca)sarean section, if not performed within the first 15 to 20 minutes after the death of the mother, will give no prospect of a living or " apparently dead " child. 5. If the mother have died from blood-disease, e. r/. cholera, typhus, puerperal fever, either during pregnancy or labour, scarlatina, smallpox, &c., there is no hope of saving the child's life. The same will be the case in those poisoniugs of the mother wliich give rise to rapid decom- position of the blood, and thus affect the foetus, as by prussic acid. Chloroform-death appears to be an exception, inasmuch as chloroform, as such, does not pass into the fcetal circulation, of which we may be convinced by any labour terminated under chloroform-narcosis. In the discussion which followed upon this memoir in the Obstetrical Society of Eerlin Prof. Martin observed that in none of the 4 cases in which he had performed the Ca;sarcan section after the mother's death had the child been extracted living. In i case the operation was per- foriiied 10 minutes after death, in the second case it was performed "very soon" after death, and in the other 2 it was done within half an hour. Dr. Boehr referred to the statistics of the operation in ' Casper's Wochenschrift,' in which, out of 147 cases, only three living children had been obtained, "