179 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. OoLLES, AV.—Lancet, April 9. AfErins that he has greatly improved, aud even cured, cases of aujesthetic leprosy in India by applying to the diseased parts oint- ments of arsenic and biniodide of mercury. The former is used of a strength varying from 10 to 30 grains to the ounce, the latter in the proportion of 15 grains to the ounce. The arsenic was applied for about a fortnight, night and morning ; after it had caused the develop- ment of pustules like those produced by tartar emetic the biniodide was substituted, which produced vesication. This process was repeated once, or oftener, on various diseased parts, about 6 square inches of surface being acted on at one time. There were indications of absorp- tion of the arsenic. Kalb.—Brit. Med. Journ., June 18. Eecommends, as the most economic and infallible method of curing itch, a bath to which is added i to 2 kilogrammes (2 a to 4*4 lbs.) of sulphuric acid. The patient on entering the bath soon feels an itching, which causes him to scratch himself; and in this way the scabs, &c., are removed, and the acid allowed to operate on the acarus, its larvae, and its eggs. In the course of a few minutes more the stinging sensa- tion caused by the acid is replaced by a most agreeable feeling, so that the patient gladly remains in the bath during the 30 or 60 minutes required for his cure. One bath usually suffices, but Kalb finds that a repetition of the bath every second day is an excellent means of cure of the ecthyma, ulcers, impetigo, and eczema, which so often accompany itch. By way of economy, the same bath may be iised for several soldiers, as its efficacy is not readily destroyed. V. Pn.iNQTJE, A.—"Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., 4, p. 73, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 43. Eecords a case of hsemorrhagic sweat occurring in an hysterical female, aet. 45, whose catamenia were regular. The bleeding ensued 3 times after long-continued severe convulsions, produced by mental emotions. On the fourth occasion Tranque himself was present. The patient suffered for 4 days previously the most violent pricliing pains along the vertebral column, in the left ear, the forehead, and the left arm. After the convulsions had lasted an hour there broke out all over the body a copious sweat, which appeared red at the parts which had been the seat of pain, and derived its colour from actual blood containing red globules. The convulsions and the pains now gradually ceased. As the skin appeared unbroken, Franque presumes that the hfemorrhage took place from the sweat-glands. Keb, T. r.—Lancet, August 13. Eecommends the use of armoracia in acne rosacea. He gives 2 ounces of the Inf. Armoraciae co. with ii\x of Spt. Ammou. co., and a little syrup of ginger, to be taken night and morning; applies a milk infusion of the fresh root to the parts affected, and enjoins the avoid- ance of stimulating liquors, and the occasional use of gentle aperients.