376 11EP0K.T ON MIDWU'ERYj ETC. tioncd there is iio obstetric liistory of .3. Of the remaining 9 one only besides Dr. Barnes's patient recovered after ceplmlotripsy. Tlie obstetric difficulty occasioned appears to be twofold. In the first place, there is the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra overhanging the pelvic brim, and partially or entirely fallen into the pelvic cavity. Secondly, there is a great deviation from the normal axis of the brim. The ])rojection of the lumbar vertebra; also causes an important deviation from the normal shape and position of the uterus; it throws the fundus so much for- wards that the uterus is made to lie across the pubes like a sac. The obstacle presented to the entry of the head into the pelvis is far more serious than in simple contraction of the conjugate diameter from undue prominence of the promontory. In this latter case, unless the contraction be very great, it is generally possible to bring the head through by the forceps, by turning, or by craniotomy; but in spondy- lolisthesis, if the deformity be very marked, and especially if one or more vertebrso have fallen into the^ pelvis, delivery by turning, even after craniotomy, will be very likely impossible. Hence, in advanced cases there is no resource but the Caesarean section. It is needless to point out that the indication is decided for the induction of premature labour whenever this can be performed. ABNOEMAL CONDITIONS Or THE UTERUS. Birubaum, Dr., " Two Cases of Variety of Perm in. the Uterus with Pregnancy" (' Mon. f. Geb.,' 1863, suppl. Heft). Dr. Birubaum (Cologne) communicates to the Obstetrical Societj"-in Berlin two cases of varieties of form in the uterus with pregnancy. Both cases wei-e under observation at the same time for some weeks. Case I.—Twin pregnancy, with uterus bicoriiis uuicoUis or acuatus. Interesting, because of the distinctness with which the form presented and developed itself. A primipara, a;t. 26, strong and healthy; at the end of pregnancy the greatest prominence of the uterus was in the umbilical region, -which M'as very much pointed and protruded; the circumference of the body here was 44". Above this tiie uterus presented a very marked saddle-like depression, so that the Avhole uterus was obliquely heart-shaped. One division of the uterus passed up from the depression high up into the left hypochoudrium, ending in a more pointed fundus. A second division could be traced far up into the right hypochoudrium, but this did not rise so high as the left division, and hence the fundus was broader. The uterus-walls were thin and very moveable, and especially in the navel region, where the foetal movements could be easily recognised. Poetal heart-souuds were heard on the left side, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium up to the lower border of the hypochondrium. The great quantity of liquor amiiii prevented the discovery of the foatal part.", but the presence of twins—one in the right horn, the other in the left—could not be doubted. After the escape of the liquor amnii the uterine contractions began to empty the right horn first, making the form of