CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Ill collected in the bronchial tubes during the previous night. Great ex- haustion followed these attacks, and on the morning of Oct. i^, 1861, he oradually sunk. Various remedies had been tried for many weeks tof^ether, but none seemed in any way to arrest the steady progress of the disease. Cod-liver oil, quinine, iron in various forms, zinc, strychnia, and the constant use of galvanism, were the principal agents employed. The post-mortem examination of the tongue went to prove that it had been converted in its entire extent into a soft, pale-yellow mass of fatty tissue. The papilla? were shrunken, and of the lingual muscles only the genio-hyo-glossi and stylo-hyo-glossi retained any manifest traces of their form and structure. The nerves of the tongue,_ so far as traceable, were natural; the muscular fibres in the arches of the palate and in the uvula were chiefly natural, save here and there. The same granular appearance was noticed in the pectoralis major, and in a portion of the left ventricle of the heart, and in the left side of the diaphragm. In^all, the muscular fibre was in great part natural, though each specimen 'in an equal degree contained stray fibres which were losing the clearness of their transverse markings, and becoming granular Avith fatty deposit. The examination, worked out with the greatest care and by accurate observers, failed to bring satisfactory evidence of any change in the nervous tissue supplying the afiected muscles, either in their central or peripheric extremities; but, on the contrary, it tended to strengthen the prevalent opinion, that the disease is essen- tially one of the muscular tissue itself. CIHCULATOEY SYSTEM. Oemeeod, E. L., M.D.—Review of the present state of Cardiac Pa- thology. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 6. Under the head of pericardial affections, Ormerod notices tubercular pericarditis, which he describes as slow, for the most part painless, with long persistence of the auscultatory sign, and having always, as far as he has seen, a fatal issue. It stands in the strongest contrast to the rheumatic form of the disease. With regard to the anatomical changes which are found in this latter, Ormerod's own experience inclines him strongly to believe that adhesion of the pericardium is in the majority of instances the natural termination of pericarditis. When general adhesion has once been effected, and the two opposing surfaces are firmly agglutinated, he believes these are very rarely separated by sub- sequent inflammatory exudation or set free by absorption of the con- necting fibro-cellular tissue. Cases have, indeed, been recorded, in which, after general pericarditis had pursued its natural course, the pericardium has been found free from any trace of the previous inflam- mation. But these seem to be exceptional cases, and they scarcely justify our claiming for the pericardium a power of repair greater than that of the other serous membranes ; for he finds, on analysis of a large number of cases, that observations of adherent pericardium after death bear tlie same ratio to observations of pericarditis during life as any other anatomical lesion does to its observed symptoms. As far as he has