lUCPORT ON PIIYSIOLOOy. IG portion of the tin salt, so part of tlie scarlet cruorine is gradually reduced in the course of the circulation, oxidizing a portion of the substances derived from the food or of tlio tissues. The |inr])lis]i colour now assumed by the solution illustrates the tinge of venous blood, and a fresh shake represents a fresli passage through tlie lungs. ("On the lleduction and O.xidation of the Colouring Matter of the Blood," ' Proc. lloy. Soc.,' 181^4, P- 355-). Relation of the movements of Respiralion to the Vanus Nerve.— Dr. Rosenthal comes to the following conclusions:—fi) All the muscles of inspiration may be reflexly excited by the vagus alike to an increased number of contractions or to a state of tetanic spasm. (2) The intensity and duration of this tetanus may vary within wide limits—the more in- tense it is the sooner it passes, and conversely. (3) All the muscles of inspiration are not excited with equal ease, but they stand in the follow- ing order, which is the same as that given by Traube for spontaneously increasing dyspnoea, viz., diaphragm, internal intercostals, intercartila- ginei, levatores costarum breves, sealeni, serratus posticus. (4) The more any members of this scale are already in action through previously existing causes of dyspnoea the more easily are they reflexly influenced through the vagus. (5) It seldom happens that an entirely inactive muscle of this scale is brougiit into action by irritation of the vagus ; if it be so the action is weak and brief. (6) If the demand for breath be entirely put aside, so that all the movements of j-espiration cease, they cannot be brought on again by irritation of the vagus. (7) Tlie muscles of expiration cannot be reflexly excited through the vagus; on the con- trary, their existing rhythmical contractions are relaxed during the irri- tation. (8) After section of both vagi the normal respiratory movements may be restored by artificial irritation of the central portions, but by stronger irritation all the phenomena may be produced which occur when one vagus is irritated, the other being left untouched. The final results are thus summed up :—The action of the medulla oblongata is determined only by the oxygen of the blood. The excitement of the vagi cannot increase this action ; it only effects a change in the muscular motions brought into play, in consequence of which the respiratory motions become more rapid, but also weaker :—The extreme limit of this influence is a continued contraction, the intensity and duration of which are deter- mined by the amount of the irritation." (' The Movements of Respiration, and their relation to the Vagus Nerve,' Berlin, 1862 ; and ' Vierteljahrsch. fiir der prakt. Heilk.,' B. 3, p. 108.) Interchange of Gases in the Lungs.—Dr. N. Grrehaut has studied the phenomena of respiration by causing measured quantities of hydrogen to be inhaled, and examining the gases expired. By this means the volume of air contained in the lungs can be ascertained, since by repeated respi- rations a complete intermixture of this air and the hydrogen is effected, and an analysis of the mixture enables us to calculate the total. The volume of the lungs, as thus deduced, after expiration, in men between 17 and 35, varies from rig to 3-22 litres (i to 2-8 quarts). When a pint of air is inspired, about a third is returned to the atmo- sphere with two tliirds of vitiated air, and two thirds of jiure air are dis- tributed uniformly through the bronchi. Dividing the volume of air