320 llEPORT ON SURGERY. often extensively dcHtroyed. In 2 cases, where the shot had been fired from a distance, Lanfrenbeck has seen loss of both the alveolar margin and a large piece of the corresponding palate. The aperture in the latter part should be closed by uranoplasty, and the teeth replaced by the dentist, lieccut gunshot injuries of the bony palate require great attention on the part of the surgeon, fragments of bone, still at- tached to the soft parts, should not be removed, but replaced, as soon as the bleeding has ceased, with the greatest care ; they may be re- tained in proper position by discs of sponge fastened to the teeth by thread, or pressed up by the lower jaw, or by a gutta-percha plate. It may not be practicable to keep the fragments permanently in position by such means, when the palate is extensively comminuted; recourse must then be had to siiture of the mucous edges. Owing to the danger of gangrene, Langenbeck thinks it advisable not to introduce the sutures for 36 or 48 hours, the infiltrated or gangrenous edges being first carefully excised. He recommends this method of treatment, because he obtained most excellent results in the year 1848, in exten- sive shot-wounds of the face, nose, and ear, by accurate union of the wound after 48 to 60 hours. In one respect the treatment should, however, differ—in the face, any necessary plastic operation should be performed at the same time, in the palate it should be deferred to some later period. Acute inflammation of the bone, osteoijeriostitis and osteomyelitis, in rare cases attacks the hard palate and the adjacent alveolar process, and may cause perforation owing to necrosis. Yet as the periosteum is usually not destroyed but only separated from the bone, and as the pus generally escapes into the nares, or at the margin of the alveolus, large pieces of the hard palate may be exfoliated without the produc- tion of any perforation. A young woman, 6 days after her confine- ment, suff"ered from violent tearing pain in the palate, and increased fever. The mucous membrane became red and swoUen; it was sepa- rated for some distance from the bone, and formed towards the middle a fluctuating swelling as large as a hazle nut. An incision was at once made, through which pus escaped, and the bone was felt to be bared. In the 3rd mouth a piece of bone, 4 lines in width, and including the whole thickness of the palate, came away. Perforation into the nare.s did not foUow; a depressed cicatrix formed under the apphcation of tincture of myrrh. More common are cases of chronic osteitis and necrosis of the hard palate. In phosphorous disease of tlio upper jaw, the necrotic process in- variably commences in the alveolar process, gradually spreading to the rest of the bone. After long-continued suppuration under the gum, the teeth become loose and fall out, the gum recedes, and the alveolar process is bared. The suppuration continuing, the mvolucrum palati gradually, though as the rule at a late period, recedes, so that tlie palatine processes become exposed. The retracted mvolucrum forms a firm swelling, here and there containing newly formed bone, and be- neath which the probe can be passed further. In the same way does tlie periosteum on the external surface of the jaw recede with the otucr coverings from the dead bone, so that as far as the malar bone on tiie