UEPOUT ON phactical medicine. 63 stitial inflammation ; (2) Gummata or tumours; (3) Cicatrices. Tliose organs, such as tlio liver and testis, which abound in parenchyma, are most liable to the first named of these forms. Xew elements (nuclei, cells, and fibres of connective tissue), are developed in the meshes of the organ, producing enlargement and ultimately contraction and atrophy. When this takes place the surface of the above-named glands presents furrows and depressions of greater or less depth, giving a characteristic appearance to the organ. In the liver we find lobular cirrhosis, i. c. cirrhosc h gros grains as M. Lancereaux calls it—a state very different from the granular induration of drunkards, or cirrliose a pelita grains. The inflammatory form is less distinct in the other viscera, as the brain, kidneys, lungs, and heart, and is also more difficult of recognition—that is when one organ alone is apparently aflected. In these organs it mani- fests the characters of cerebral induration or softening, of interstitial nephritis, or of chronic pneumonia or carditis. The second form of vis- ceral syphilis is characterised by the presence of tumours varying in size from a pea to a haricot bean, and generally termed gummata. They may be firm or soft in consistence, and of a gray, whitish, or yellowish colour, according to their age, and to the relative proportions of their histological elements. They are ordinaiily surrounded by a dense grayish vascular fibrous tissue, very resistent to the finger; this forms a kind of cyst, from which they may sometimes be enucleated, and its presence is often a suf- ficient guide in distinguishing these tumours from tubercle, cancer, and most other non-syphilitic new formations. Gummata in their early stage are constituted of the embryonic elements of connective tissue. Having arrived at a more or less complete degree of development, they undergo a retrograde or fatty change. They may be spontaneously absorbed. This termination is doubtless favorable; but traces of the presence of the tumours may be left in the form of cystoid membranes (in the brain), fibrous bands, or cicatrices (in the liver). In some cases the tumours undergo calcareous transformation. Syphilitic gummata are readily dis- tinguished from cancer, and from fibrous or fibro-plastic tumours, by the small amount or absence of vascularity, and by their situation; but they are very easily confounded with tuberculous or scrofulous deposits, vas- cular atheromata, and deposits arising from glanders or farcy. Their nature, however, may be determined by a consideration of the characters already described, and by a careful consideration of all the organs, and of the liver in particular. The formation of cicatrices is in reality only one of the modes of termination of the preceding forms of syphilitic lesion. It is characterised by the presence on the surface of the organs of one or more furrows, or more or less deep depressions; and by fibrous bands in the interior. Of these lesions, the first—furrows and depressions—arc distinguished from the atrophy consecutive on obliteration of the vessels by the presence of a fibrous cyst at the depressed part, and by their having no relation, as regards situation, to the distribution of the vessels. From cicatrices left after wounds they are distinguished by the absence of the colouring matter of the blood. The fibrous bands in the interior of organs are distinguished from absorbed and cicatrized purulent deposits by their numbers as well as by the absence of purulent detritus in tlie neighbourhood. In the vascular glands hypertrophy sometimes occurs,