7 CIECULATION, or great vessels ; (4) a nervous condition not caused by ansemia. ('Comptes Eendus,' 1864, i, p. 196.) III. OIEOUI/ATION. Influence of tJie gaseous contents of the Shod on the activity of the Heart.—L. Thiry's experiments lead him to the conclusion that blood which is wanting in oxygen influences the heart through irritation of the vagi. This is in opposition to Franke's view, that COj in the blood is a powerful stimulant to the motor nerves of the heart. If in a rabbit, whose heart is exposed, the access of air to the lungs is cut off, the left cavities may be seen to fill with dark-red blood, without any alteration taking place in its action; a few seconds later, that is at the time when the unaerated blood reaches the capillaries, including those of the medulla oblongata and the origin of the vagi, the heart begins suddenly to beat more slowly, and after a few contractions either stands still in the diastole or pulsates only at long intervals. Up to this time no symptoms of dyspnoea are exhibited; they occur first during the quiescence of the heart. At last general convulsions set in, and the heart, which hitherto had dilated only gradually and to a moderate amount (probably through relaxation), is now suddenly greatly distended. These phenomena occur in the com'se of about io seconds. If artificial respiration is now established the heart again begins to pulsate, but not immediately ; only after it has been filled with bright-red blood, and this has been driven further by its isolated contractile movenients, does it begin, often quite suddenly, again to beat with a frequency and force nearly equal to that which it possessed at first. It follows that the action of the heart is stopped and renewed, not by the influence of the blood upon the heart itself, but by its effect upon the crigin of the vagus. If artificial respiration is not used the heart begins again to beat after some time, evidently from exhaustion of the excited vagus. The contractions, however, are very weak; they continue a short time after death. If the vagi are divided these effects do not take place. In spite of the interruption of respiration the heart continues to beat for some time with its former frequency; its action gradually grows slower, but does not cease until after death. The convulsions do not affect its rhythm. If the vagi are divided when the heart is at a standstill it begins again to beat. That the effects described are due, not to the presence of C0„ in the blood-, but to absence of 0, is proved by the fact that they occur in the same way if instead of stopping the respiration hydrogen or other neutral gas is breathed. The arterial pressure is first increased by inter- ruption of the respiration, the heart's action, though retarded, being very powerful; afterwards it sinks. ('Henle uud Pfeufer's Zeitsch.,' 1864, vol. 21, p. 17.) The Pulse.—J. L. Marey has carried further his attcmpts'to give a more satisfactory physical basis to the doctrine of the circulation. He em- ployed for this end three modes of proceeding:—ist. To measure the pressure within the various cavities of the heart, he introduced into them clastic bladders, protected by perforated metallic cases ; these bladders were filled with air, and communicated by elastic tubes with a correspond- ing bladder the movements of which were traced by means of a lever