291 EXCISION OP THE ELBOW-JOINT. Death Ainputatiou Anchylosis Mobility 40 or 12 per cent. 14 » 4"2 » 23 » 6 9 „ 256 „ 76-87 » To these cases the author adds 20, 18 of total and a of partial excision, performed hy Professor Busch since 1858 at the Bonn Clinic. Of these three died; in one a secondary amputation was performed, and after the stump had nearly healed, death resulted from internal strangulation; another death ensued from tuberculosis, and a third from pyemia. The author is of opinion, that when there are signs of pulmonary tubercle, amputation should be preferred to resection, experience having shown that the stump soon heals, and that the patient improves after removal of the limb. The large cavity produced by excision must be filled up by granulations; through the profuse suppuration and the long- continued fever, the tubercular process is promoted, and the constitu- tion is rapidly undermined. Two cases of old dislocation of the head of the radius were submitted to resection. As this operation has been rarely performed,—Heyfelder quotes three cases, of which only one ended favorably,—we append a brief account of them both. Adelheid K., jet. 16, of Kbnigswinter, presented on her admis- sion the following symptoms :—the left forearm was about an inch and a half shorter than the right one. Towards the lower third the ulna formed a considerable projection backwards. At the outer and back part of the elbow, the upper end of the radius formed a prominence about three quarters of an inch in height. The patient could furnish no account of the history; the symptoms showed that there had been a fracture of the ulna, and that there still remained a dislocation of the head of the radius. On the 14th May, 1858, the upper part of the radius was excised, the rest of the bone being replaced opposite the external condyle, and the wound united by suture. The wound healed in the course of a month, and the radius showed no tendency to luxation. On the 22nd June an attempt was unsuccessfully made to refracture the ulna; on the 24th osteotomy was performed. On the i6th August she was discharged with a perfectly straight arm. According to later information, the arm has become just as serviceable as the other one; flexion and extension, pronation and supination are perfect. Bernhard Z., set. 22, from Dambruch, suffered from inflammation of the elbow-joint and periostitis humeri, owing to a fall when he was 16 years old. The head of the radius, which had become dislocated, was excised on the 25th February, i860 ; the wound healed by granula- tions. The mobility of the joint still remained much impaired. Porced movements under chloroform were used ; and on the 2jth June he could extend his arm to an angle of 121°, and flex it to one of 15°. C. Hueter, the longitudinal incision in excision of the knee-joint ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' v, 323).—The incision commences a little above the internal condyle, passes down in a line with the anterior edge of the in- ternal lateral ligament, and ends just above the insertion of the sartorius. The knee should be extended, and the knife carried at once down to the bone. The internal lateral ligament is then cut across, and tlie