FIBROUS TUMOURS OP THE UTERUS. 399 dimensions as they approaclied the side of the uterus to emerge from it between the serous layers of the broad Hgament. The mucous surface of the uterine cavity was pale, smooth, and healthy. A little clot, decolour- ised at its extremity (no htemorrhage had occurred for some days before death), protruded tlirough a small, empty, and flat uterine sinus, about the centre of the projecting tumour. The opening was in diameter, and through it a probe could be easily passed into the uterine sinuses. In ordinary circumstances the walls of these sinuses are nearly in contact. It was only during the periodical monthly congestion that blood passed along the open sinus, and thence into the uterine cavity. This case appears to indicate the value of those hasmostatic measures which diminish the impetus of the blood or moderate congestion in the pelvic viscera. 4.—The object of Mr. Brown's paper is to confirm by fourteen cases the good results of the practice he had previously advocated, and to show that in most cases incision of the os and cervix uteri alone would arrest the hasmorrhage and the development of the tumour. In some cases the tumour decreased, and, when small, it would entirely- disappear, especially if of recent origin ; and even if gouging was required, a less severe operation than that previously adopted is sufficient. The author now uses only a pair of blunt-pointed, curved scissors, finding that the slightest destruction of the capsule of the tumour is enough to ensure its disinte- gration. The following is the author's mode of incising the os and cervix : —The patient being in the lithotomy position, the perineum is well depressed by means of Bozeman's speculum. The anterior lip of the os is then seized by a pair of vulsellum forceps, and held by tlie left hand of the operator, who then introduces the hysterotome, and, whilst firmly holding the ibrceps to tlie left side, cuts the os and cervix laterally to the light. Then reversing the hand, he holds the forceps towards the right side and cuts out towards the left. The cut surfaces are then well plugged with oiled lint, and the vagina also filled with lint, so as to ensure the most perfect pressure and exclusion of atmospheric air. If this be properly done, there is never any serious haemorrhage ; but an unequal or inefficient plugging is often followed by dangerous haemorrhage or peritonitis. The operation of gouging the tumour should not be done sooner than a fortnight after the incision of the os and cervix. With the patient in the same position, the index finger of the left hand of the operator is inserted within the inner os, and a pair of long-handled, blunt pointed, curved scissors are passed up to the tumour and pressed through the capsule ; the blades are then so opened as to break up the tumour. Oiled lint is then passed into the opening thus made, and the vagina plugged as before. The dressings are not to be removed under 48 hours, and the vagina is then to be washed out with a lotion of Condy's fluid. Of the 14 cases related, 10 were cured of the hemorrhage by the incision of the os and cervix alone, and i was relieved; in 2 only was the second operation necessary, and both were cured. In 6 cases the tumour had either entirely disappeared or materially decreased after inci- sion alone. Of tlie 3 deaths, i occurred from peritonitis, i from pyajmia, and i from organic disease independent of the operation The following conclusions are drawn :—i. The fact of the curability of the^e tumours is materially confirmed by these cases. 2. It is not necessarf in