415 DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. the end of tlie ist till the end of the .3rd month, 21 from the end of the 3rd till the end of the 6th, and i8f in the last half of the year. These statistics also show that the pulse in infants may hecome as rapid by the emotions, and by active exercise, as in the gravest diseases. DISEASES OP BESPIEATIOIT. Dr L. Buhl, "On Obstruction of the Air-passages, a cause of Death of the Child after Eirth" ('Klinik der Geburtsk.,' 1863). Prof Bouchut, " On Mediastinal Tuberculosis" (' Jour. f. Kinder- kraut.,' 1863, heft 9 and 10). I.—Buhl states, that of 27 children dying from mechanical causes m labour, or shortly after birth, 11 were destroyed by obstruction of the air-passages with foreign matters, or presented this condition. Eight were born dead, and of those which were alive at birth none survived the first day of life. In 10 of the cases, the obstruction was caused by a greenish or greenish-browm shining mass, which often copiously filled the cavity of the larynx, and of the trachea as far as its bifurcation, or even completely filled its branches; or it was in less quantitj'-, and permitted the passage of air and of fluids to an insignifi- cant extent. In the former class, 6 cases, the lungs had their foetal position and texture unaltered; in the latter class, more or less nume- rous, small portions of lung were filled with air. Only in two, who died during parturition, could air be shown to be present in the lungs; but in only one of these two was the distension of the air-cells the result of instinctive respiratory movements; in the other air had been artificially injected. The parenchyma of the lungs, in the cases where they con- tained air, had a brownish-yellow discoloration, and from the surface of a section there could be expressed a similarly coloured, finely spumous fluid. Microscopical examination of the matters found in the air- passages always showed the presence of yellow, golden-reddish nuclei of colouring matter, of different sizes and irregular forms, very frequently of tabulae of cholesterine, fat-drops, and cylindrical cells—circum- stances which left no doubt that the substance examined was me- conium. The superficial inspection of the larger tracheal i^lugs, and their comparison with the contents of the colon in the first instance, removed all doubt on the point, especially as the throat, mouth, and nose, were filled with the same, and the whole body and umbilical cord were smeared with it, and had from it a greenish tint. This condition of the skin almost establishes the diagnosis of the cause of the death before the autopsy is made. To complete the proof that the greenish coloration of the_ skin and of the contents of the air-passages is pro- duced by meconium it is only necessary to add that this normal content of the child's large bowel was found only in the rectum, or was altogether absent. It is Avorthy of notice, that in cases where repeated attempts at respiration were made particles of meconium were always found, even in the parenchyma of the lungs, having been drawn as far as the air-cells themselves. In the pleural covermg there were found small hremorrhages corresponding to the larger accumu-