144 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. Blake.—Brit, and For. Mocl.-Chir. llev., July, 1864. RelateB the partii-ulars of 7 cases of ])litlii8i8 sliowiiig the influeuce of living completely in the open air. The locality whore his patients resided was in tlie coast range of the mountains of California, 3—5000 feet above the sea, where the temperature is very equable, and no rain falls for 5 or 6 months. When the rainy season arrives a short sea- yoyage takes the patient to Northern Mexico, where the winter climate is exactly analogous to the summer climate of San Francisco. The patients are directed not even to sleep in tents, but out under the trees, and to live on the game which is found in the mountains. Except where the lungs are too extensively destroyed, Blake believes there are few cases which may not be cured by the above method, Htde Salter, M.D., F.E.S. —0» Tracheal Dysphagia. Lancet, July 2, 23. Salter says there are two kinds of dysphagia—one in which there is some embai'rassment or obstruction in the act, and the other in which swallowing is painful, and only difficult because painful: remove the pain, and there is nothing left. His observations refer only to the latter form of dysphagia, and to it. as affecting the oesophagus. The two diseases to which oesophageal dysphagia principally points are aneurism of the aorta and malignant or other organic stricture of the gullet; and it is because it points to these two mortal diseases that it becomes so momentous a symptom. But the dysphagia to which Salter directs attention is not ffisopliageal dysphagia; it is so apparently.hni not really; and it is because it simulates this the gravest form of dysphagia, and yet is entirely free from any of the gravity and serious- ness of that affection, that the detection of its true nature becomes so interesting and important. Five cases are recorded, the first of which, being related by a medical man, who was himself the patient, may be quoted as a type of the disorder. A. B., set. 40, enjoys very good health, except that he is liable to take cold, which is very apt to aflect his chest, giving him sternal soreness, accompanied with cough and expectoration for three or four mornings. His first attack of the dysphagia was many years ago, and he has had many of them since. He first noticed it in the night, as he almost always has ; the attacks are all alike, differing only a little in severity. He thus describes one of them:—" I go to bed with a feeling that I have taken a cold. I have been sneezing, perhaps, and shivering, and have a certain amount of feverishness, and it may be a little sore throat. Perhaps I ftel a little of what is called a sore chest—a rawness at the top of my sternum, passing back to between the shoulders; so much so some- times that I have had a mustard plaster on my chest for it. I go to bed and to sleep, but in the night I wake with a sense of severe and horrible pain beneath the upper part of the breast-bone. The moment after I wake I find it subside, at least in a great degree; but on the first occasion on Avhich I swallow my saliva after waking (a thing one is constantly doing) I again experience it; and I have no doubt it is the pain occasioned by an act of swallowing during Bleep that in these attacks wakes me up. The pain is something