451 ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. specimens of aconitine. It seems very probable that aeonella is identi- cal with narcotine. Dr. Taylor (' Guy's Hosp. Kep.,' 1864, p. 187) relates the case of AV. Hunt, who poisoned himself by tincture of aconite, after killing his wife and children in a cab. An account of the symptoms ob- served was given to Dr. Taylor by Dr. Puckle, who was called to see him. Violent retching and great depression were the most obvious effects. When raised up from his seat he staggered across the room. The pupils were dilated. He dozed, and said that he had delightful dreams. He tried to write, but was unable to pen more than a few lines. He died in about an hour and three quarters ; he had then lost all power of motion and all sensation for about a quarter of an hour. The appearance of the mucous membrane of the stomach strikingly re- sembled the elfects of an irritant poison. The larger end was of a bright-red colour, from great capillary congestion. The whole mucous membrane was highly corrugated, and part of it was softened and sepa- rated. The alcoholic extract of its contents, when applied to the lips, pro- duced the peculiar numbing sensation characteristic of aconite. OEGANIC CHEMICAL PEODTTCTS. Hydrocyanic Acid.—Dr. Otto ('Dent. Klin.,' 1863, p. 476) records the following case:—The stepmother of a photographer was found dead in her room. On post-mortem examination, made the next day, nothing was found to justify the suspicion that death arose from poison- ing, but the stomach, and part of the intestines, with their contents, were reserved for analysis. They were placed in vessels covered with writing- paper. On opening the vessels the same day the smell was purely that of decomposition ; nothing resembling the odour of prussic acid could be detected. The stomach and its contents were rendered feebly acid by sulphuric acid, and were separately distilled. The distillates had the same putrid smell, but chemical reagents showed the presence of hydrocyanic acid in large quantities, probably in the form of cyanide of potassium. The amount of this substance was estimated at half a drachm. Portions of the liver and spleen, which were examined later, gave only indistinct results. MM. Bussy and Buignet ('Joum. de Phar. et de Chim.,' 44, p. 465) have made some experiments to determine the relative advantages of preparing hydrocyanic acid by the methods of Gray Lussac and of Gea Pessina, the former being by the action of hydrochloric acid on cyanide of mercury, the latter by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on ferro- cyanide of potassium. The Codex of 1837 adopted the first of these processes. That of Pessina is the one ordinarily used in this country. MM. Bussy and Buignet also give it the preference; they find that the quantity of hydrocyanic acid obtained by it approaches more nearly to the theoretical amount than when the cyanide of mercury is employed, and with but little diiliculty it may be modified so as to yield an anhy- drous acid. This anhydrous acid, when diluted, gives a medicinal acid which is more stable than that obtained by Gay Lussac's process. The stability which had been previously observed in Pessina's acid,