IIKPOIIT ON I'RACTICAT, MEDICINE, uo correspoudiugly ibrciblo, and also by the symptoma of piilmouary con- gestion Avhich cannot otlierwise be accounted lor. Hoeing.—Case of Rupture of the Septmn Ventriciilorum of the Heart from the kick of a horse. "Wurtemb. Corr. Bl., 34, 10, 18154. Schmidt's .Tahrb., vol. 12,3, p. 41J. The patient lived sixty liours after he had received tlie blow. An indeterminate whining murmur was heard over the heart, and the sounds were not clearly separated. Watebs, a. T. H., M.D.—Lancet, November 12th. Accounts for tlie hypertrophy of the left cavities of the heart which occurs in emphysema by the displacement of the organ altering the relations between the ventricles and the great arteries wliicli issue from them, so that the blood is not expelled with the same facility as in the normal state, the heart's action becomes embarrassed, and more power- ful contraction is rendered necessary. He does not, however, exclude engorgement of the venous system as an accessory cause. Eamskill, J. S., M.D.— Cases of dilatation of the Left Ventricle of the Seart associated ivith difficulty of articulation, and with sub-occipital pain. Clinical Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 472. Eamskill suggests that disease in the vertebral artery, where it lies between the sub-occipital and hypoglossal nerve, may account for the symptoms. He thinks that the mischief arising from disease in the arterial tunics is hastened by certain forms of lieart disease, of which weakness or dilatation is a chief characteristic. In such cases, which are often treated as cases of brain affection only, remedies should be addressed to the heart, and an improvement in its action will be fol- lowed by a corresponding arrest of the sub-occipital pain and difficult articulation, and by a postponement, at least, of the coming apoplexy, hemiplegia, or the cerebral lesion. Lebeet. — Virchow's Arehiv, 28, 1863, p. 405. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 172. Records the case of a youth who died at the age of 20, of pul- monary phthisis, in whom there was found the following malformation of the heart. The right ventricle was hypertrophied and dilated, and communicated freely with tlie left. The auricles also communicated through the open foramen ovale. The aorta was 3 times as large as the pulmonary artery; the two had a common origin. The valves were healthy and efficient. No cyanosis existed during life. No symptoms seem to have existed until 20 months before tlie patient's death. At tliat time, after raising a hca\7' load, he was attacked with violent pain in the right anterior and superior region of the chest, and ever after .'iufl'ered Avith palpitation and dyspnoea on any exertion. A loud, sliarp, systolic murmur was heard all over the region occupied by the lieart, and masked the first sound completely and the second partially. The mode of production of this murmur was not ascertained; it may have de- pended on the meeting of the currents of blood from the two ventricles