231 TREATMENT OP SEPTICAEMIA. containin<y seven and a half drops of the solution, a dose which had been previously found to he invariably lethal. The animaltook in all twenty- two orammes of sulphite of soda; fourteen drops of the soKition of sul- phuretted hydi-ogen were administered by injection. Yet the effect was so pernicious that the animal became extremely emaciated, and suffered from hectic fever; death ensued after a month, and no definite local lesions could be found on dissection. Although this would appear to show some prophylactic action of the medicine, an equally favorable result could not be obtained in dogs. A large white poodle, after taking two grammes of the sulphite of soda daily for four days, suffered after the injection of half an ounce of fetid, but carefully filtered, pus- serum, into the crural vein, from repeated vomiting, severe diarrhoea, and violent opisthotonos, and died in twelve hours. _ Another dog, after taking the sulphite for four days, received an injection of half an ounce of flaky pus and lived for three days, on each of which two grammes^ of the sulphite were given: it was very feverish, became' emaciated with extreme rapidity, and died with marked symptoms of septic pyaemia. On dissection a notably croupy state of the bowels and embolic in- farctus in the spleen and limgs were found. Hence it would appear that the prospect of curing septicemia by this means is very slight. E. V. Wahl, contributions to the clinical history of tlie pmulent Uiathesis and of septic infection (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 321).— The author discusses these important affections in a lengthy paper, and illustrates his remarks by the relation of numerous cases. It appears that in St. Petersburg most of the cases of septicaemia arise from pro- gressive sanious disintegration of the subcutaneous cellular tissue (acute puiTilent oedema of Pirogoff),* the latter following some slight bruise or wound, or, as often happens, commencing spontaneously without any external cause. As to the fever in these cases of progressive gangrene of the cellular tissue, the author states, that a rigor usually occurs at the commencement, especially when the disease has not arisen from any external injury, and that afterwards the temperature continues very high with very slight morning remissions. About the ninth to the eleventh day, there is a rather considerable fall of the morning tempera- ture, accompanied by profuse sweating. He thinks the thermometer of great use in determining the question of amputation in such cases, the difficulty being to distinguish at a sufficiently early period traumatic from septic fever. In the former, however, the temperature rapidly augments, the highest degree, between 39° and 39'9° 0., being usually attained on the first or second day ; the defervescence is also rapid, and generally commences on the second day. On the other hand, pro- gressive gangrene is developed up to the fourth day, but not later; the commencing septic fever becomes at once continuous and high, the temperature ranging constantly between 39° and 40° 0. Dr. Wahl has tried for a considerable time the sulphites, but has never seen the least effect. There is towards the end of this paper a good account of the rapidly fatal cases of boils on the face, which have been described by Pirogoff, Giintner, &c. Gangrene.—E. v. Wahl endeavours to show that the estension of * Vide 'Year-Book' for 1862, pp. 197 and a 16.