UEl'OET ON MIDWIFEIiy, ETC. 406 polypi seldom grow large, but the fibrous, if undetected, freque: attain an enormous size. They often, but not necessarily, prevent ception. In the case of small polypi growing from either lip of th or from the canal of the cervix. Dr. Sims advocates excision by scissors rather than torsion, and the subsequent application to the surface ol' lint saturated in a solution of perchloride of iron. ' should not be removed until thrown off by suppuration. A little co li ji or liut soaked in glycerine is applied daily till the wound be het;. i This glycerine dressing, when applied to a pyogenic surface on th, 5 k or cer\dx uteri, produces a copious serous discharge, which depletef •; i tissues with which it lies in contact, and gives them a dry, clean, I i healthy appearance. Dr. Sims strongly condemns the operation by ligature, and in the case of large intra-uterine polypi recommends- dilatation of the cervix by sponge-tents, and the removal of the pob by Chassaignac's ecraseur, to which he has added a porte-chaine. invention overcomes the previous objection to the use of this iat ment, and may be described as a pair of dilating forceps, with sp blades, which render the chain stiff, so that it may be passed stra-1 into the vagina or into the cavity of the uterus as easily as a soun. probang. The chain is afterwards expanded by the blades of: forceps. In cases of intra-uterine polypi, attached by a short tt pedicle at, or near to the fundus, great care should be taken no lacerate the polypus by traction. The author relates a case of this in which it was found impossible to fix the chain round the pedii tbe tumour was much lacerated, and death resulted from pyaemia, tbe other hand, extreme exhaustion is no barrier to the operation tbe ecraseur, since by this the danger of primary or secondary hxi rbage is reduced to the minimum. The following case is a j example of this :—A woman was extremely prostrated by menorrb of many years' duration, and by a profuse muco-purulent vaginal charge, which had existed for 6 or 8 months, whenever the ha'morr: ceased. The uterus was found retroverted and much enlarged, fundus filling up the hollow of the sacrum. The finger introd through the cervix detected an enormous fibrous polypus, retaine utero by the retroflexion. Five days later, after violent expu pains, she passed into a state of complete exhaustion. A profuse d oflensive, sero-sanguinolent discharge flowed from the vagina, the j was small and rapid, she was ansBniic, and presented all the appeara. of blood-poisoning. The vagina was found filled with an imm( decomposing, fibroid polypus, with the pedicle attached (as is most ut; to the anterior wall of the uterus. Ecrasement was at once perfoi' i by the author, and this, with vaginal washes, wine, and generous- soon completed the cure. Mr. Hutchinson points out the importance of examining the va<. both by the finger and by the speculum, whenever frequeut and 1 continued irregular metrorrhagia has occurred and has resisted ordi treatment. In such cases, if polypus exist, one of the following ditions may be found:—(«) A sessile soft growth, of small size, taining one or more mucous cysts, consisting of enlarged utf follicles and hypertrophied cellular tissue. Dr. E. Leo states (' Ml ) t