HEPORT ON rHACTICAL MEDICINE. 12Z QuLL.—Lancet, April 9th. Recorda a case of nneui-ism of the aorta opening into tbe superior vena cava just at its entrance into the auricle. The patient was a male, ret. 34, -who had suft'erod with cough, dyspnoea, and inability for hard worlc, for several ycara. Five weeks before death iiis face began to swell and biftaine purple, liis neck became pufiy and his arms. On ad- mission his head, neck, thorax, and arms, seemed as though tliey belonged to a bloated individual, while the abdomen and lower extremi- ties looked as if they were the parts of anotlier man, for they were fine and thin, not gorged with blood, and mostly of the normal colour. A vibratile thrill, synchronous with tlie second sound of the heart, was seen over the right side of the chest. No murmurs were heard with the cardiac sounds. All over the ascending portion and middle of the arch of the aorta a soft whee/ing murmur was very distinct. At tlie commencement of the arch it was diastolic, passing upwards it was botii diastolic and systolic, but chiefly the former. Pulse 108, small, regular, riglit less than left. The opening into the aneurismal sac occupied the side and posterior wall of the ascending aorta, commencing an inch above the valves, and reaching to the innominata. Cockle, J., M.D.—Lancet, April 30. Relates two cases as strongly confirmative of the value of a sign of abdominal aneurism, which is in some instances most to be relied on, viz., severe and intermitting pain in the back and loins, often radiating to the front of the abdomen and downwards to the thighs. One patient was a male, the other a female. In the latter the aneurism affected the inferior mesenteric artery. MuEEAY, W., M.D.—Case of Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta treated and cured hy compressing the artery immediately above the tumour. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. 4, 1864, p. 352. The patient was a spare man, tet. 26, and had often strained himself in ramming paving-stones. Eleven months ago, after hard work, he was seized with severe pain in the back. Two months later the same pain began to be felt in the abdomen, catching his breath, and was very severe. Previous to treatment his condition is described as follows :— His abdomen is somewhat spare, so that a distinct pulsation can be seen opposite the umbilicus. On applying tbe hand a hard and slightly movable tumour of a distinctly globular form is to be felt. Its pulsa- tions are very strong, sudden, and laterally expansive. The tumour is about the size of a large orange; when pressure is made on the aorta above it all pulsation ceases, and when it is removed a distinct thrill is felt to accompany the rush of blood into the tumour. A line drawn across the abdomen over the umbilicus encloses with the ribs a trian- gular [space, the epigastric region; and over tlie left half of this space there is just room enough above the tumour to compress the aorta against tbe spiue. The aorta below the tumour can be felt, and its pulsations appear to be normal. A slight bruit is heard over tho tumour. No evidence of degeneration of the arterial system. General health good, but he is worn out with pain and consequent loss of sleep.