96 RISPOUT ON I'EACTICAL MEDICINE. DuPLAT. —Gaz. des Hfip., March ^tb, 1864. Hecorda a case of sypliililie diBcase, in which the cerehelluin was probably affected, and in wbich recovery ensued under mercurial treat- ment. The patient, a female, a;t. 30, had a well-marked pustular syphilitic eruption on the arms. During several weeks she complained of very severe occipital headache, and had obstinate vomiting, in con- sequence of which the iodide of potassium which had been administered to her produced no effect. The patient now began to grow feeble ; she stumbled; walking became more and more difficult, and at last she was coniined to bed. "While lying down she had perfect voluntary power over both tbe upper and lower limbs. Sbe had also double convergent squint, complicated with diplopia. The intellect and sensa- tion and the principal functions remained intact. At the end of 6 weeks she was dismissed cured. Stein, J.—Case of cJironic Primary Tuberculosis oj the Pons Var. Memorabilia, 8, 9, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 302. The patient, an apparently healthy male, set. 21, was attacked at first by severe headache and giddiness on stooping. Fourteen days later he began to have a feeling of weakness in the right hand, which subse- quently extended to the right ear and side of the face, and to both the limbs on the right side. The loss of power became more marked, and somewhat later vomiting commenced; speech and the power ef swallow- ing were impaired, and the right eye was somewhat everted. Enclosed in the left half of the pons was a tumour as large as a walnut, which had produced softening of the surrounding tissue. There was con- siderable serous effusion into the third and left lateral ventricle, and softening of the fornix and left thalamus opticus. The tumour seems to have been of a iibro-plastic kind, containing numerous caudate cells and dividing nuclei. Ogle, J. W.—Brit, and Tor. Med.-Chir. Eev., October, 1864. Eelates 75 cases of scrofulous deposits, or diseases of the brain and spinal cord and their investing membranes. This valuable paper does not admit of abbreviation. KussELL Eeyhtglds and Lockhaet Clabke.— On a case of Paralysis, with Pathological Investigations. Brit, and Eor. Med.-Chir. liev., July, 1864. This communication we can only refer to. HuGHLiNGS, Jackson, M.D.—Illustrations of Diseases of the JVervous System. Clinical lectures and reports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 337. This valuable paper is unsuited for an abstract. Racibobski.—Nitrate of Silver in Diphtheritic Paralysis. Gaz. des Hop., 20, 1864. Eaciborski treated a married couple for diphtheritic paralysis, which appeared in the man after a throat affection, in the female after primary diphtheria of a wound in the arm. In both cases the extremities and the muscles of the throat were affected. Nux vomica brought about