395 FIBEOUS TUMOUBS OF THE UTEBUS. ating spontaneously, identical in structure with that of the uterine tissue. (2) °Fibroids, including the recurrent. (.3) Malignant fibroids, as occurring both among fibromas and fibroids. From their position they may be (i) extra-uterine, situated just beneath the peritoneum ; (2) intra-uterme (polypus) ; or (3) parietal or interstitial. The size varies from an orange to 74 lbs., the largest being the pedunculated. The intrinsic changes of these tumours may be—(i) Softening, which includes a sarcomatous change, cedema, the formation of pseudo or colloid cysts and true cysts, suppu- ration, and fatty degeneration. (2) Hardening, which may be peripheral or interstitial. (3) Absorption. True fibro-cystic disease is very rare. Suppuration is not so uncommon as is generally supposed. The hardening or calcareous transformation is much more common in the extra-uterine varieties. The absorption is generally synchronous with the climacteric change. The author believes sexual excitement to be one of the causes of fibrous tumours, since their occurrence immediately succeeds the age when sexual passion, frequency of marriages, and fecundity, were greatest, viz., between 27 and 35, and because, after menstruation ceases, they generally diminish in size, occasionally disappear, and rai-ely enlarge. Sterihty is not necessarily associated with these tumours. Of 22 married women atfected with fibrous tumours only ^ were barren. Of 24 affected with polypi only 3 were barren. In reference to the diagnosis, the author remarks on the importance of being fully acquainted with all the details of the previous history, and then points out the necessity for—(i) examination of the patient in different positions, since by this the presence or absence of adhesions could be ascertained, and cases of short pedunculated ovarian tumour be diagnosed from uterine tumours ; (2) careful observation of special symptoms, with their relative value ; (3) especial reference to the differential diagnosis between pregnancy and ovarian disease, the two most common conditions likely to be mistaken for fibroid disease of the uterus. To determine the direction and position of the tumour,'the author has iie^'iseiis, pelvimeter, which consists of two sounds, so adapted that they can be introduced separately, one into the bladder or rectum, the other into the uterus. The distance between them is then noted, and the exact measure of the tumour thus determined. The symptoms of fibrous tumours are, generally—an enlarged abdomen, •with a hard, rounded, and solid tumour, to be felt in and above the uterine region, extending sometimes as high as the epigastrium, both lumbar regions being clear on percussion, and the umbilicus sunken, not pro- jecting ; the uterus is found enlarged per vaginam, and the cavity increased ;] menorrhagia is more or less intense, fluctuation is absent, and an occasional systolic souffle is to be heard over the tumour. Auscul- tation reveals four signs :—(i) A souffle, either («) vesicular, heard also in some cases of ovarian disease, in pregnancy, and shortly, but not immedi- ately after delivery, resembhng the bruit placentaire, and probably due to an extended circulation; or (i) a tubular souffle, peculiar to fibroids and other solid tumours resting upon the aorta, and not destroyed by pressure. (2) A thrill, with musical note, very similar to an aneurismal sound, and never heard either in ovarian disease or pregnancy. (3) The double and single cardiac sounds—first, a single sound, synchronous with the systole