KEl'ORT ON SUIlOKUy. moved, wo find as tlie rule almost the same displacement of the portions remaining, as after exartieulation of one half. To avoid these results we may adopt one of the following plans :— 1. FrcservalioHofthc lower margin of the im-(ion excised. Tliis opera- tion may be performed in the cases of non-recurrent tumours (osteoniyeloid, osteofibroid, enchondroma, and sarcoma) which so often occur in young persons, provided the lower margin of the bone is not diseased. It was first applied by Ehca-Earton to excision of the central portion : it may, however, be used even in removal of the whole of one half Langcnbeck is surprised that this method lias been so little noticed; he himself has employed it with the best effect in six cases. In one of these, where there was a fibro- sarcoma of the whole of the luft half of the bone, he resected the whole of the diseased portion including the degenerated coronoid process; the joint was untouched, and the lower edge of the horizontal and ascending ramus was left in the form of a bony plate as thick as the back of a loiife. After recovery there was no change in the form of the face or in the mobility and power of the lower jaw. 2. Subperiosteal resection may be employed in necrosis; considerable displacement, however, takes place before the bone is regenerated. Langenbeck has therefore in necrosis of the whole jaw divided the opera- tion into two parts, first excising only one half, and when the bone was regenerated after about six months, the second half; notwithstanding this precaution, the chin and lower lip became much retracted. 3. Billroth of Zurich lately performed an operation in a case of phos- phorus-necrosis of the whole jaw with the design of ^jreseru/jjy not only tlie •periosteum hut also the neioly formed bone. The latter adheres both to the periosteum and to the diseased bone. By means of an incision along the lower edge of the jaw the osseous deposit is cut or sawn through as far as the diseased jaw and then separated by an elevator or by the instrument (Geissfitss) used by Langenbeck in periosteal uranoplasty'. In the case so treated the bony capsule accurately represented in form and size the portion removed and was sufficiently firm to prevent any re- traction of the soft parts ; no necrotic exfoliation followed, and a perfectly solid lower jaw of normal foi'm was the ultimate result. 4. "Where the periosteum cannot be preserved, it appears plausible to introduce foreign bodies into the wound, with a view of preventing dis- placement, till the cicatricial tissue has become sufBciently firm. Thus gutta-percha splints with steel points at each end have been placed in the wound; unfortunately such violent inflammation and suppuration ensued in five or six days that they had to be removed. A better result was gained by an apparatus like that used by dentists for straightening teeth, by means of which the lower was fixed against the upper jaw. Although in a case so treated, half of the jaw had been excised, very little displacement ensued. 5. Transplantation of a piece of bone. Non-recurrent tumours often affect only the part of the horizontal ramus between the canine tooth and angle of the jaw. In these cases it is possible to saw a piece of bone, 4 to 6 lines thick, from the coronoid process, leaving the slip attached by its lower extremity, and then to turn it round into the ■wound. Langenbeck attempted to follow this plan in a case of fibro-