290 heport on SUaGERY. excision and the cure of the disease: it is between excision and am- putation." Mr. Eergusson recommends even a repetition of the operation in certain cases. " In my own early aspirations regarding this operation, I always kept amputation in reserve as the last resource, either at the time of excision, or weeks or months afterwards ; but my views in this respect have been considerably modified. I prepared myself to meet with failures at every stage ; aud then, as I thought, the patient, if not slain outright, could but submit to amputation. Such a view as this •was extensively acted upon by Dr. Humphry, for of 13 cases am- putation was performed in 4 instances, happily all recovering. But I have since altered my opinion considerably on this point, and now look upon amputation as a step rarely to be anticipated in such cases. I can conceive it possible that a seeming necessity might arise at the moment of excision to resort to amputation: I have taken this step twice myself But in instances where all does not go on well after- wards, instead of taking fright or losing heart at an early period, I ask for time; and when that does not suffice, I believe dealing freely with the wound, opening sinuses, clearing away strumous effete material, picking away loose necrosed pieces of bone, gouging away bare material of the kind—ay, even opening up the whole surfaces, and sawing oft' fresh pieces of bone—to be better than amputation. To do all this, particularly to repeat excision—to perform resection, as it may with propriety be called—seems an admission of failure; but it is no more so than having to repeat an original amputation of the thigh, as has frequently been done. The results are or may be very different, how- ever, for there is still the limb left to compare with the abbreviated stump. " There is more, however, in these words than may appear ; for I do not speak from theory, but from actual experience. In October, 1862, Jane Bolton came under my care in King's College Hospital to have her limb removed, after unsuccessful excision of the knee. There was no ossiflc union, and a considerable portion of the lower end of the femur protruded through a large opening in front of what remained of the original knee. Bearing in mind what I had occasionally done in cases of unsatisfactory results of excision at the elbow, I opened up the parts, took away the projecting portion of bone, trimmed here and there, and ultimately succeeded in getting a sound cicatrix, a perfect anchylosis, and a limb so strong that, although shorter than its fellow by several inches, the patient was delighted with it; yet when she came to town, and for months even after the second conservative operation, she was anxious that amputation should be performed. I have since repeated similar operations with the most satisfactory results, and, as a general practice, I decidedly recommend it in preference to amputation, as the secondary alternative." Br. Dontrelepont on excision of tlie elhow-joint ('Arch, fiir Klin. Chir.,' vi, 86).—According to existing statistics, the results were in 333 cases of this operation, as follows;—