IIEPOIIT ON TOXICOLOGY AND JIATEUIA MEDICA. 430 muscular coats of the intestines. The blood, both within the cranium and elsewhere, was black and very fluid. The braiu itself was firm. The lungs niucli congested, especially posteriorly. Tiie left ventricle of the heart hypertrojjhied. Tlie stomach much congested towards the duodenal end ; as well as the air, patclies of extravasated blood existed between its coats. The small intestine was inflamed or congested throughout. The duodenum was almost black. There was a large patch of extravasated blood beneath the peritoneum covering the ileum, and numerous similar patches existed elsewhere on the small and large intestine. The colon was also congested, but lighter in colour than the small intestine. The rectum, however, was inflamed from its commence- ment, but especially uear the sphincter. The liver and spleen were of a peculiar dark greenish-blue colour. The kidneys were much con- gested. The bladder empty and contracted. Ou chemical analysis slight indications of arsenic were obtained from the liver by Marsh's test and by the ammonio-sulphate-of copper. It could not be detected in the spleen or in the alimentary canal. The last dose of the poison was taken on the i8th November, about 60 houi's before Dr. Parker saw him and 5 days before he died. BismutJi. Mr. Tichborne (' Phar. Journ.,' 5, p. 301) has analysed the "Liquor Bismuthi," and finds that it contains bismuth, citric acid, and ammonia ; I'I grains of the teroxide of bismuth are present in each fluid-drachm of the solution. Copper. M. Chevallier publishes (' Jour, de Chim. Med.,' 9, p. 401) the follow- ing medico-legal case, which is of some interest:—E. R— was accused of attempting to poison his father with some soup, containing a salt of copper. This metal was found in some bacon, and also in some earth taken from the spot ou which the father threw the soup, suspecting it to be poisoned. Earth taken from a little distance ofl' was proved to contain no copper. It was thought by the chemists who first investi- gated the case that, since the soup had been made in an iron saucepan, the gi'eater part of the sulphate of copper must have been replaced by sulphate of iron, and therefore that no serious eflects would have followed the ingestion of the soup. On ti-ying the experiment, however, with the saucepan actually employed, placing in it 6 grammes of sulphate of copper, it was found that no decomposition of the salt took place. This was due to the fact that a layer of fatty matter which lined the saucepan interfered with the chemical action of the iron, for when a small portion of the interior of the vessel was cleaned by scraping it copper was at once deposited on the exposed metallic surface. The quantity of copper actually found in the bacon and in the earth was small, amounting only to '36 grain of the sulphate, but this was, of course, only a small portion of that which was contained in the soup. The prisoner was convicted.