101 PSYCHIATUIK. I the muscles of the thumb and little finger, and the interossei. Volun» tarj motor power was abolished in all but one instance. PSYCHIATBIIC. Saxkky, W. H. 0.— The pathology of General Paresis. Journal of Mental Science, Jan., 1864. Sankey poses the question, whether there is such a disease as general paresis, distinct from all other diseases in its etiology, progress, and pathology 1 Taking for inquiry first the history of the disease, he says, if the symptoms are epiphenomena only, or complications engrafted upon another disease, or arise at any epoch during its progress, then, firstly, all second and third attacks of insanity should be equally liable to have the epiphenomena engrafted upon them as first attacks ; and secondly, the symptoms should occur in old cases, or in cases in which the patient has been insane many years, as often as in cases of more recent origin. With regard to the first point, Sankey states that, out of 61 patients suffering under general paresis, among a total of 2280, there is not one who can be strictly said to be affected with a second attack of insanity. With regard to the second point he finds, from an examination of 105 fatal cases of general paresis, that at the end of 5 years 90 per cent, were dead. The evidence, therefore, afforded by the history is strongly opposed to the view that the symptoms are mere epiphenomena. Next, as to etiology, Saukey concludes, with regard to hereditary influence, that the data he adduces are, upon the whole, favorable to the view that general paresis is distinct from other cases of insanity, both in the difference in degree by which it is liable to be transmitted and also because there is strong presumptive evidence that the species when transmitted is transmitted in kind. Other testimony which Sankey has collected relative to the state of the propensities and passions appears to show that the predisposing causes which lead to general paresis are of peculiar kind, and i-ather favours the opinion of the specific nature of the disease. It is corroborated by a fact stated by Dr. Connolly, to the effect that in his large experience he has never met with a case of general paresis among females of the upper classes in society. The predisposition to the disease would appear to stand in the following order:—(i) Males of the lower classes, (2) males of the upper, (3) females of the lower, (4) females of the upper. And this order of sequence may be considered to be also that of the subjugation of the animal passions in the different classes. Under the head of pathology, Sankey gives a table stating in detail the post-mortem alterations found in 15 cases of general paresis compared with 15 cases of other forms of insanity. The greatest difference that, from the com- parison, was found to exist, was in the frequency of occurrence of I effusion beneath the arachnoid, which was found 11 times in the 15 cases of general paresis and 3 times in the other cases. A similar dis- crepancy existed in the increased vascularity of the pia mater, which occurred in every case of general paresis and in 7 of the other cases, i Adhesion of the pia mater to the gray matter occurred in 8 of the 15 i cases of general paresis and in one of the other cases. This appearance