TREATMENT OF ANTHRAX. 253 scapula, of large size, and a smaller one in the axilla, near the scapula. The large one was about four inches by three in diameter, as regards the central boggy portion, with a livid margin, a couple of inches wide, all round. The small one, more prominent, was also more advanced, although later to appear. The core was beginning to separate in it, and it had ceased to spread. The larger one was still spreading—it was the seat of deep and burning pain, and had not commenced to open spontaneously. I strapped both with spiral strapping, covering the entire of the larger, and all but the centre of the small one. Not having soap plaster with opium at hand, I used common adhesive plaster. In twenty-four hours the improvement was marked. The pain had lost its burning character, the swelling had decreased, the lividity of the centre part was changed for a healthier red, and the edge of the outer margin was paler. The improvement continued from day to day ; a small central opening gave vent to a good deal of healthy pus; and in ten days not only was the core out completely, but the cavity from which it came was mostly healed up; and in three weeks he was well. I gave him a little bark during this period. He had no means to enable him to get good food or stimulants, and continued as an extern all the time. " Prom these cases, to which many others might be added, it is plainly evident that anthrax may be treated sometimes without incision. It is, I think, clear enough that we may pause over each case, and consider if it be necessary or advisable to resort to the knife. For my own part I am satisfied that, as a rule, anthrax need not be cut. I do not wish to be dogmatical, or to lay down an absolute rule that the crucial incision is to be entirely abandoned, but I am entitled to ask that it should not be held to be a sine qua non." " I have observed that as soon as the parts get support, the extension uf sub-fascial exudation ceases. This is the natural result of giving support round the margin of the inflamed part. The efforts of the matter to get vent are then directed towards the surface, and the neces- sary sloughing and ulcerative processes are more rapidly performed. I have also observed that the core is more extruded or pushed out than where incisions have been made. In the latter case we have often to pull at the core, and to dress the wounds with terebinthinates and other stimulating dressings before the sloughs separate. This has never been necessary where pressure was used. The core came out generallv in one mass, and a healing process seemed to have been going on behind it, so that the subsequent closing up of the cavity was rapidly effected. I may add that I have frequently used the soap plaster with opium, in common furuncle, and in acne rosacea, with the best effects. It checks the suppuration of furuncle if applied in time, and always relieves the pain. In acne it seems to resolve the hard exudation, and to promote a discharge of a drop or two of healthy matter. This has been specially the case in the very chronic form of acne, which would otherwise remain for weeks itchy and sore, neither disappearing nor suppurating. Pressure is not to supersede appropriate internal treatment, of which, if I have said little in this paper, it is not to be supposed I am neglectful." P. C. Sniyly, anthrax treated by pressure (' Dub). Quart, Journ. ' vol. xxxvii, p. 280). '