CEREBRAL AMAUROSIS. 318 tendeiiey to sleep. Oac eye is usually attacked a raoutli or two before the other; the left is mostly the first to fail. lu a short tune, how- ever, both eyes are affected, and within from 4 months to a year from the 'date of onset, the patient is so far blind that he is unable to read. Proin 18 mouths to 3 years usually suffice to complete the entire loss of all sight. Through the whole course of the attack, the patient has usually continued in excellent health, after the first few months the liability to headache, and the tendency to sleep have passed away, and all his bodily functions excepting those of sight, have appeared in per- fect order. From beginning to end, he has had no ocular symptoms excepting progressive abolition of the special sense. In this form of amaurosis the ophthalmoscope reveals to us remarkable and very con- stant conditions. In the early stage the optic disc is usually too red, and the whole of the choroid full of blood, and presenting the appear- ance of a pile of red velvet. There are no ecchymoses, nor any eftusions of lymph. In a little time the congestion of the optic disc diminishes, instead of being too red it is too white. At this stage, the arteria cen- tralis retinsB is much lessened in calibre, but its accompanying vein is of normal or even increased size. From this stage onwards, the optic disc gets whiter and whiter until 'all traces of arteries, excepting the largest trunks, are lost, sometimes, but very rarely, even the largest cease to be visible. At this latest stage the veins are usually very small, but I have never known them absent. Whether the stage of preliminary congestion is always present or not, I do not know, since a large majority of cases come under notice long after it is passed. With regard to the method by which the abolition of function is brought about, I entertain a strong opinion that it is not owing to any altered state of the eye itself Neither the primary congestion nor the subse- quent anaemia of the retina suffice to explain it. I have seen many cases in which the patient could not see, although the ai-teria centralis was still of fair size. It seems to me probable that these alterations in blood-supply are secondary to some deeper-seated change, and that the real location of the changes causing failure of the perception of light is in the cerebral origins of the optic nerves, i. e. in the tubercula quadri- gemina. The form of amaurosis to which I now allude is always sym- metrical. Its most prominent symptoms, however, white atrophy of the optic disc and shrinking of the arteries which supply the retina, are now and then observed in only one eye. These unsymmetrical cases, however, usually present other symptoms which clearly demonstrate that they are of a wholly different nature. They probably depend upon local disease in the optic nerve-trunk of the affected eye." The author records 47 cases of the symmetrical disease in adults, 12 cases of the same form in young persons, and 7 of the non-symmetrical amaurosis at various ages. These sufficiently show that there are at least 12 cases of the first form in the male for 1 in the female, whilst unsymmetrical amaurosis is equally frequent in the two sexes. In the great majority of cases there is no reason to attribute any influence to occupation, intemperance in the use of stimulants, sexual excesses or masturbation, sypliilis, or injuries to the head. Thus we arrive at the question of the possible influence of tobacco, in regard to which Mr.