OEG^miC SUBSTANCES. 433 been found by SchrofF in tlie extract of the rootlets which are cou- nectcd with the rhizome of the veratruin album; and as this extract is more active than that of the rhizome itself, lie attributed to the crystals part of its efficacy. However, they do not give the reaction of veratrine with sulphuric acid, and he now believes that they consist simply of sugar. The difference between the action of the rhizome and that of tlie rootlets of veratrum album is essentially this, that the former produces chiefly reflex paralysis, while the latter cause reflex spasms, similar to those which follow the administration of veratrine. As regards their action on the alimentary canal, Schroff finds that both species of veratrum accelerate the expulsion of faeces, but that neither, even when given in poisonous doses, causes diarrhoea (this is said to coincide with the observations of Gneding, and Pereira quotes 3 cases of poisoning by this drug in the human subject in which there Avas no purging). The tincture prepared by SchrofF from the rhi- zome of tlie veratrum viride was somewhat weaker than that of the veratrum album prepared in tlie same way. On the other hand, the American tincture of the veratrum viride was stronger; but this ia ascribed to the fact, which he afterwards ascertained, that the Americans use the rootlets as well as the rhizome in making the tincture. Schroff" also compared the action of the cevadilla seeds with that of the different species of veratrum. Trom 12 experiments he concludes that, in the same quantities, this drug is more powerful than the rhizome alone of the veratrum album, and more powerful than the rhizome with the rootlets of the veratrum viride and the verati'um nigrum, but less so than the rhizome with the rootlets of veratrum album. Veratrine was found by him to be three times as active as the alcoholic extract of the cevadilla seeds, thirty times as active as the seeds themselves. It is, however, only twice as powerful as the alcoholic extract of veratrum album. In the nature of their effects, the cevadilla seeds resemble most of the preparations of the veratrum viride and the veratrum album, producing spasms rather than paralysis. It would appear from these experiments that, in making preparations of these plants, the rootlets should always be employed, as well as the rhizome. Conifer CB. Dr. W. W. Ireland describes ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Feb., 1864, p. 709) a very successful method of treating cases of chronic rheu- matism, bronchitis, and other affections, which is employed at the town of Die, near Valence, in the south of Trance. It appears to have been for a long time the practice among the peasants of the district, when suffering from rheumatism, to expose themselves to the vapours of a pitch-furnace; but Dr. Chevandier was the first who em- ployed this remedy in regular medical practice. The furnace used resembles a large baking-oven. The fire is below, and the resinous layers of pine-wood {Finns Cemhrot) are strewed upon the floor. The patient sits on a bench, wrapped in a porous covering of wool. The temperature is ordinarily from 140° to 158° Fahr. He remains in the bath from 15 to 20 minutes. After the feeling of overpowering heat 28