(52 heport on practical medicine. genei-nlly a tlimiiuition of the fi-oqucncy of tlie p\il6e, a ealmneKS and clearness of intellect, and a diiiiinisliod lividity and greater coolness of the head and face. On tlie morning after admission the patient waa pnt upon a mixture of one of the mineral acids comhined with nitre, or with more stimulant diuretics, as nitrous ether and spirits of juniper. The ingredients were varied to suit the peculiarities of each case". Nitro- muriatic acid and nitre were given to cases with marked hepatic tender- ness and seemed most useful of all. If the blood dyscrasia was severe, with an hajmorrhagic tendency and other typhoid symptoms, muriatic or sulphuric acid was substituted. The addition of a little antimonial or ipecacuanha wine was enough to check bronchitis. "Where the bron- chitis became severe and the lungs engorged with mucus, or where con- gestion or pneumonia were present, nothing was found so serviceable as turpentine in doses of T\\xv—xx 2 dis lioris, with diuretics or with ether. In convulsions the vicarious as well as the derivant action of the bowels by repeated purging with croton-oil seemed the most hope- ful procedure. Graves' combination of tartar emetic and opium in many cases soothed most violent delirium, and indeed acted like a charm. Cases in which there had been great hepatic tenderness were most liable to subsequent torpor of this organ. Bed-sores very seldom occurred, thanks to good nursing and the use of the chloroform-and- gutta-percha solution. The per centage of death from typhus was in all cases ii'2, in adults 16, in cases under 15 years of age 3'8. The per centage of cases successfully treated without stimulants was in all cases 6i'3, in adults 40*7, in patients under 15 years 83'3. The ages of those treated without stimulants to a successful issue ranged as high as 60 years. The average consumption of the 120 who received stimu- lants, was during their (average rather over 3 weeks) residence 46^ oz. of wine and i8 oz. whiskey. With regard to the great question of the day in the treatment oi' fever how far alcoholic stimulants are necessary, these figures alone would prove that Avith a mortality under the average, it is possible to treat over a half of all cases without a drop, and very nearly a half even of those above the age of 15 ; M hile those below it as a rule require none at all. In the children, however, treated by Eussell, the mortality was high though stimulation was not resorted to, but a review of the fatal cases shows that the event was owing not to pure typhus, but to complications or sequelae, which were in their very nature hopeless. There were 4 cases of enteric fever, one of whom a female, 3 months pregnant, aborted, but after a severe struggle recovered. Letick, J. J., M .D.—Miasmatic Typlioid Fever. Amer. Quarterly Jouni. of Med. Sciences, April, i864. After remarking that there is no doubt that specific poisons may co- exist in the system at the same time, Levick notices the opinion of various writers that there is a special antagonism between tlie typhoid fever and the miasmatic (malarious) fever-poisons. He assents to Muicliison's opinion that the facts recorded by these writers, so far from proving an antagonism, rather suggest a similarity of origin of the two fevers, and says he is not sure that they do not prove that tlic one may act as the