56 HEl'OllT ON I'JtACTICAL MlilJlClNK, llOTir, Pr.—Statistics of acute Bhcumatism. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr. vol. 4, p. 277, 186.3 ; Schmidt's .lahrb., vol. 122, p. J87. Eoth observed 79 cases at Wi'irzburg in the ,3 years Irom 18'37 to i860, forming 1-5 per ceut. of all tiic cases of internal disease treated there during this period. The months in which tlie disease was most preva- lent were Api-il, May, and October, while the reverse was the case in .Tauuary and .Inly. Taking tlio separate years, however, the mouths did not show the same order as regards frequency of the disease, and the total number occurring in different years was very various, being .34, 25, and 20. Eoth is therefore inclined to believe in the epidemic prevalence of the disorder. Three of tlie 79 patients died, 2 of pleuro- pneumonia. Complications existed in one 'third of all the cases. Cardiac were the most frequent, and next pulmonary. Among the 15 cardiac there were 5 of pericarditis, 6 of endocarditis, and 4 of endo- pericarditis. lu the matter of treatment there is little to be noted except that lemon-juice appeared quickly to diminish the pains. Law, R.—On the treatment of Acute Rheumatism. Dublin Quart. Jouru. of Med. Sci., May, 1864. Law affirms that he has given a fair trial to every other method of treating the disease, viz., tlie alkaline treatment, the citric acid, the free exhibition of opium, the treatment with colchicum alone, and that with bark and the hydriodate of potash, and none has approached the plan he advocated nearly 20 years ago, in the shortness of time it has required to effect a cure, nor has any been more certain in its results. Law's plan consists in bleeding once, very rarely twice, and in the exhibition of colchicum. Tlie V. S. almost never exceeds 3viij, and the dose of colchicum is about gr. j, of the acetous extract .3 or 4 times daily. He has generally observed, that when the pericardium or endo- cardium is about to be affected, there is, in general, previously, an excited action of the organ, in which case he adds digitalis either to the mixture or pill. If pericarditis or endocarditis actually occurs, he combines calomel with colchicum, opium, and digitalis. KoBEETON, J.—Brit. Med. Jour., June 18. Eoberton advises in the treatment of acute rheumatism a dose of calomel and opium, followed by free purgation with colchicum and salines, and after this the administration of powdered cinchona bark with quinine, about 60 grains of the former, and gr. iss of the latter being given every third hour. Lemon-juice with water may be taken freely as a beverage, and the joints are to be wrapped up in dry cotton wool. In cases where there is much pain, opium may have to be given every night. He prescribes all moist applications. AVhcn the patient has been seen early and treated in the above matter, Roberton has not known during 30 years the heart to be affected in a single instance. Hf.iibeet Davies, M.D.—On the treatment of BJieumatic Fever in its acute stage, exchisiveli/ hi/ free hlistering. Clin. Lect. and Eeports of London Hospital, 1864, p. 293. Davies believes in the existence in this disease of a maieries intensely acid in its nature, and liighly irritating to the synovial and fibrous