HOSPITAL GANGEENE. were tied under the same circumstances, with the same result. The patients are now well. Bromine arrests the gangrenous process so effectually and certainly, that I am inclined to think this procedure good practice." " I believe the best mode to apply the bromine to be this:—with a pair of scissors or a scalpel cut away all the sloughs down to the living tissue (or until by ha3morrhage you are warned to go no further), being careful to clean out all nooks and corners putting off from the central sore, or wliere it has dipped down into intermuscular spaces or followed aloug the cellular plane, where it is apt to escape observation. Then wash the wound with warm water, and dry with a pledget of lint or charpie; then apply pvire bromine to the entire surface with a mop or swab, and if cavities exist, inject it into them with a small glass syringe, and with a pine stick press it up so as to mix it with all the pulp or pultaceous matter that may still linger in the wound. Simple dressings should then be apjjlied, and the sore excluded from the atmosphere for two days, when warm-water dressings should be used to facilitate the detachment of the slough, after which points of granulations will be noticed springing up, and, if no fetor is present, the arrest is complete. If some fetor still exists, it is evidence that some points have been missed and should be retouched, observing the same rule as in its first application. The wound should then be treated on general principles. If the granulations become weak, I have found much benefit from the use of a weak solution of bromine, say 40 gtt. comp. sol. bromine to §j of water, applied morning and evening." Dr. Post mentioned at a meeting of the New York Academy of Medicine ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 122), that "the preparations of bromine that have been used have been either tlie pure bromine, a dark- red liquid with a pungent odour, or more frequently a preparation analogous to Lugol's solution of iodine—160 grains of the bromide of potassium ai'e dissolved in 4 oz. of water, this solution is placed in a bottle, an ounce of bromine is added, making a solution of the bromu- retted bromide of potassium." He speaks vei'y highly of the effects of this treatment, and remarks, that he " saw at Louisville a case of hospital gangrene of the leg, where, in the course of the disease, the posterior tibial artery became involved, and haemorrhage occurred. The interest- ing feature in tliis was, that the surgeon in charge tied the artery at the bottom of the sloughing surface, and applied the bromine immediately over it. I saw that case a little less than a week after the application occurred, and the case was doing remarkably well. The ligature had separated the day before I saw it, and at that time the sore was in a state of healthy granulation." Dr. E. Jarvis stated that he had seen this case on the twenty-fifth day, perfectly recovered. M. Goldsmith, bromine in hospital gangrene ('Amer. Med. Tim.' 1863, n, 121). L. Graves used a drachm of bromine to eight ounces of water as a local application (ibid., p. 206). D. C. Lloyd, in his report of five cases (ibid., pp. 266, 278), speaks very highly of the effects of bromine. J. A. Dougherty, case (ibid., p. 84). G. P. Hachenberg on the local use of turpentine (ibid., 1864, i, 264). Mr. Maunder, cases ('Loud. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 104). 15