SIMVLE OPERATION FOE HERNIA. » 337 turned to the tumour, the finger is gently pressed into tlie ring ; there is then, according to the autlior, no difficulty, as soon as the finger has been passed half the length of its distal phalanx into the ring, in tear- ing Gimhernat's ligament from its attachment to the bone, and a similar plan is followed with reference to the inguinal variety of rupture. In rare cases he admits the necessity of a small incision, which may be further dilated with the finger. The author has followed this plan in 7 femoral and 3 inguinal herniaa; in no case did the operation take more than 5 minutes, in several only 2. The symptoms of strangulation immediately disappeared, and the wound healed in a few days : all the patients recovered. He thinks that this operation is less dangerous than the old method; the rapidity of conva- lescence is also of some importance. He urges the advantages of not opening the sac and of very freely dilating the aperture, so that the bowel may suffer no injury. Should it appear for any reason advisable to open the sac, the subcutaneous wound can be readily enlarged by the bistoury. F. Jordan, a simplijlcatioii of the extra-peritoneal operation in the several varieties of strangulated hernia (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 641 ; ii, 5).—Mr. Jordan recommends a proceeding in some respects similar to the one just described. He says :—" It is the object of this paper to show that all that is necessary in practice is to relieve the tension of Gimbernat's ligament in femoral hernia, of the conjoined tendon or fibrous apertures in inguinal hernia, and of the linea alba in umbilical and the more common forms of ventral hernia. As a rule, these structures can be reached and relaxed, the cutaneous tissues only being divided prior to the use of the hernia knife." " A short incision is made through the skin and superficial fascia3 near the neck of the tumour, and sufficiently large to admit the end of the fiuger. The superficial fasciee are di-sdded (not necessarily com- pletely) to an extent which will enable the finger-nail to detect the in- terstice or boundary line between the firm, immovable, unyielding apertural margin and the more movable and yielding tissues of the hernia. For example, in femoral hernia it is not necessary to cut through every flake of connective tissue down to Gimbernat's ligament. It is enough if the finger-nail discovers with ease and certainty the margin of that structure. As the hernia knife (blunt pointed, but cutting to the point) is insinuated along the finger-nail, close to the firm, constricting margin, it may advantageously carry before it a little connective tissue ; thus all tissues are divided to the least possible extent, and the knife is much less liable to perforate the peritoneum. The practical rule, then, in all cases of hernia, is to divide the skin and just enough of the subcutaneous connective tissue to permit the tense margin to be felt, which it is proposed to relax. Anatomical knowledge is applied here not to determine how much tissue shall be divided—that is best decided by the touch—but to determine the precise direction in which, and the precise point to which, the finger-nail is to be carried. I regard it as an important feature of the pretaxoid operation that a lamina of tissue (crural sheath, fascia trausversalis, &c.), shall, if pos- sible, come between the peritoneal structures and the hernia knife 22