TllKATMEiiT OJb' GONOllRHCEA. 237 niinished by astringent enemata. When death ensues, it is commonly due to exiiaustion, or some intercurrent disease, as phthisis." H. Friedberg on venereal diseases in Indian medicine ('Arch, fiir path. Auat.,' xxx, 251). J. F. Vleminckx on the venereal disease in Belgium ('Bull. Beige,' 1862, p. 264). Prof. Sigmund on the classifica- tion and nomenclature of venereal afiections ('Wien. Med.Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 8r, &c.). GONOEKHffiA. Mr. H. GoUis on the treatment of gonorrhoea. (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. xxxv, p. i.).—"Dr. T. Chambers asserts that gonor- rhoea, if let alone, will get well spontaneously in two or three weeks. Certainly the milder forms get well on surprisingly little treatment. For years I have not given either cubebs or copaiva at all. They are, perhaps, useful drugs, but I have not found it necessary to use them ; tlie disease, as I have met with it, admitting of a ready cure by less unpleasant remedies. In persons of full habit and great vigour, I generally give a saline purgative at tlie commencement, followed up by miuute doses of tartar emetic, if there be much constitutional disturb- ance or a tendency to high local inflammation. Cold affusion will also be of service in these cases. The main treatment, however, is by injec- tions ; not heroic solutions of nitrate of silvei', which are eminently uncertain and dangerous in their action, but by weak, and frequently repeated, solutions of alum. The rule for applying injections is simple:—if the inflammation be severe, let the solution be weak and frequently used ; if it be of chronic type, let the solution be strong and seldom used. This is the key to the successful use of injections ; and not only is the rule applicable in gonorrhoea of the urethra and of the conjunctiva, but it may be extended (with necessary modification) to the treatment of all inflammations, and to the use of internal remedies as external applications." " In the most acute form of gonorrhoea, when the discharge is pro- fuse, thick, and glutinous,—the lips of the urethra red, villous, and pouting—the patient should be directed to pour a small jug of cold water over.the organ, and immediately inject a syringeful of solution of alum of the strength of half a grain to the ounce. This injection is to be repeated every half hour for the first day, and as often at night as the intervals of sleep will allow. In all probability, before twenty-four hours have elapsed, the secretion will be lessened in quantity, and somewhat thinner; the local lieat, swelling, and redness will have abated ; and the ardor urinas will have almost disappeared, if the saline purgative and the tartar emetic have been used along with the local treatment. The injection may then be increased to a grain to the ounce, and used every hour ; in all probability, after the lapse of forty- eight hours more, the discharge will have ceased entirely ; the injections, however, must be continued for another week or two—but at the strength of half a drachm to the eight ounces—three times a day ; otlier- ■wise a relapse may occur, which will be harder to cure than the original clap.