SECUETOUY SYSTEM. 165 third lobe of the prostate. (4) We must note whether there is au hereditary tendency to tuberculosis, or whether there is clinical evidence of the presence of tuberculosis in other organs, especially in the epi- dydimis or in the lungs. Tuberculosis of the urinary organs usually destroys life in from i to 3 years. (II) A case is related of encepha- loid of the left kidney in a boy set. 3^. (Ill) A case of syphilitic bacony degeneration of liver and spleen, with dilatation of both kidneys, especially the right, which contained a quantity of greenish pus. (IV) A case of morbus Brightii, which lasted probably nearly 11 years, and which then ended fatally in consequence of an operation on the rectum. (T) A case of jaundice in which the urine contained blood-globules, numerous mucous corpuscles, some of them coloured by bile-pigment, round larger cells containing numerous nuclear corpuscles, and still larger cells containing with nuclei corpuscles exactly resembling the free mucous. In many cells the colouring matter was in a crystal- line form, the crystals forming rods or aciculfe, sometimes arranged in radiating groups. MiTNK, Ph.—0)1 TTrcemia. Berlin Med. Wochenschr., i, 11, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 186. ; Munk produced uraemia in dogs and rabbits by extirpating the ' kidneys, tying the renal arteries or the ureters. The first acted most rapidly, the last the most slowly. Vomiting occurred early, the re- jected matter being watery and highly acid, and containing much urea, but scarcely a trace of Aramon. Carb. The more copious was the vomiting the later were the head symptoms in making their appearance. Diarrhoea of the same character never occurred in dogs, but constantly in rabbits. These evacuations consequently may be regarded as vicarious of the renal. The pulse became slower, full and hard, the respiration notably more frequent. On dissection the arterial vessels were always found hypersemic up to the smallest divisions, the brain evidently oedematous, the convolutions flattened, especially where there had existed deep coma. Extravasations of blood were sometimes discovered, but never arachnitis. The amount of urea and creatin in the blood and muscles was always increased. Injections of urea and carbonate of ammonia in animals deprived of their kidneys never produced pheno- mena resembling the uraemic, but only temporary irritation. Other salts acted quite in the same way. Injection of water alone into the vessels after the ureters had been tied produced no urremia. Injection of water or of whipped blood (defibrinized) into the vessels of dogs who had their ureters and one jugular vein tied rapidly induced coma and very various kinds of convulsion. If there was much loss of blood Dr copious vomiting in the first few hours after the injection the ursemic phenomena were much less severe. Death ensued in 12 to 24 hours, ind dissection showed anaemia and oedema of the brain and flattening of ':he convolutions, in one case only slight extravasation. If, on the con- l ary, after ligature of the ureters both carotids were tied, vomiting iisued, but there was an absence of sopor and convulsions ; in the last lours of life the frequency of the respiratory movements became •normously increased, while that of the pulse was materially diminished.