262 EEPOET ON SUEGERY. successful. One of these has been already spoken of by different surgeons; the other I have not heard mentioned, and therefore I do not know whether it is original with myself or not. "Four different operations have been performed, viz., ist. Ligature of the iunominata; 2nd. Ligature of subclavian in the first part of its course ; 3rd. Ligature of both subclavian and carotid, just beyond their origins. 4th. Ligature of subclavian, carotid and vertebral, just beyond their origins. Two new operations are proposed—viz., ist. Ligature of Bubclavian, carotid, vertebral, mammary, and two or more brandies of the thyroid axis, in fact every artery that can be reached that exerts any influence on the aneurism; 2nd. Ligature of the innominate, carotid, vertebral, mammary, and the three branches of the thyroid axis." LiffaUire of the innominate.—This artery has been tied thirteen times; all the cases ended fatally. "In whatever situation a ligature be placed, secondary haemorrhage will almost inevitably occur and pro- bably from the distal side, because a ligature could not, without very great difficulty, be applied much below the bifurcation, and hence there would be sufficient space for a proximal, but not for a distal clot. The question now arises—Supposing ligature of the innominate were a per- fectly successful operation, would it arrest the progress of aneurism. I think not. There would still be the branches arising from the sub- clavian to keep up a circulation through the tumour, sufficient in all probability to prevent its consolidation. Of these the vertebral, owing to its size and very free anastomosis through the circle of AVillis, would be the most effectual. The inferior thyroid, on account of its connection with the superior thyroid, together with the other branches of the thyroid axis, as well as the mammary and superior intercostal, would all act as preventing causes. Though the size of the tumour might remain stationary, or even diminish for a short time, it would increase as soon as the collateral circulation became pretty well established, which never takes very long." Ligature of the sulclavian within the scaleni.—The author has col- lected nine cases of this operation, besides four in which other arteries were also ligatured; of the former two died from accidental causes, before the ligature had had time to separate. All the rest (seven) died from hemorrhage. There appears to be little chance of both distal and proximal clots forming: " by as much nearer as the ligature is applied to the origin of the first branch of the subclavian, by so inucli does it increase the chance of formation of a proximal clot and diminish that of a distal, and vice versa. In such cases as these the difference of a single line, or even one-half line, may determine whether a clot is or is not to be formed. Ligature of the subclavian alone, in the first part, should be banished as a means of treatment." Even if the opera- tion succeeded, it seems probable for similar reasons to those already mentioned with reference to the innominate, that the aneurism would not be cured. Ligature of the stibclavian and carotid.—" Seeing the fatal results attending ligature of the subclavian alone, surgeons endeavoured to avert them by the above operation. In adopting it they had two objects in view : ist, to insure a proximal clot; and, to afford more space for »