79 NEUVOUS SYSTEM. morphia were of no avail, but packing in the cold wet-sheet always diminished the reflex excitability and the spasmodic paroxysms, and was employed continuously at first, and subsequently, as the disorder declined, at intervals. In 4 weeks there was but little trace of tetanus, and in 6 weeks the boy had quite recovered. Ogle, J. "VV., M.D.—Med. Tim. and Qaz., March 12. Eecords a case of tetanus treated unsuccessfully with nicotine. The patient was a thin, delicate-looking girl, set. 14, whose leg had been lacerated by the wheel of a cart, some 9 days before tetanus commenced. Deatli occui-red in about 3 days. About gr. ij of nicotine were exhi- bited by the mouth, or rectum, and gr. iv by hypodermic injection. But little improvement resulted. Edmtjisds, J.—Med. Tim. and G-az., March 12. Eecords the case of a married woman, set. 28, non-hysterical, who after nursing her second child for 9 months, was suddenly attacked with cramp-like contraction of the fingers, and pain in the arms, soon followed by a similar condition of the legs. By noon the symptoms had in- creased, there was extreme and rigid flexion of the hand and arms, and the head was so drawn forwards that the backs of her wrists were fixed close to her mouth. By the evening all her symptoms were aggravated, and she suflered so much that her screams could be heard across, the road. Her neck became turgid, her respiration somewhat constrained, and she was becoming rapidly exhausted. She had passed a consider- able quantity of pale urine. There was an expression of great anxiety and pain upon the face, and the lips were sufficiently retracted to show the teeth; but the expression was not exactly the risus sardonicus seen in opisthotonos. She was quite rational, and merely swayed her- self about instinctively. There was no appearance of hyperlactation; no evidence of albuminuria or ursemic poisoning; no history of worms ; no traumatic injury, and no clue whatever to any source of eccentric irritation, except the single fact that her bowels had not acted for 3 days. After administering croton-oil, calomel, and a turpentine enema, ice was applied continuously to the spine for 7 hours, at the end of which time all her severer symptoms had disappeared. The screaming and moans were at once mitigated by the ice, and in about half an hour ceased entirely. By the third morning the numbness entirely disap- [ peared, and afterward she had no return of cramp or spasms, but a little I subacute bronchitis and hoarseness hung about her 10 or 12 days longer. Edmunds mentions that in a case of obstinate laryngismus one of Dr. Chapman's ice-bags did more to keep off the strangling attacks than anything else. Laitge.—Memorabilien, 1863, 6, 6. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 179. Lange records a case of rheumatic tetanus occurring in a female, set. ' 36. She was suddenly attacked, without any apparent cause, by tetanus and trismus. The whole body was as rigid as iron, the mouth firmly closed, the face intensely flushed and burning. The rigidity was 1 extremely often interrupted by convulsive quiverings. After opium, 1