110 hepout on practical iikdicine. tlegeueration ; but as chemical analysis shows that this appearauce is not uocosaarily accompauied by any increase of the fatty constituents, WG must regard it liere as an optical change only. (Ill') Wliat is the nature of adipoccre, and what relation does this so-called result of chemical fatty degeneration bear to the result of pathological fatty de- generation? Examination of various specimens of adipocere showed that it was, in all probability, not a newly formed substance, but rather a new arrangement of old materials, a saponification of the fat already existing. An analysis of lo grains of adipocere from a human thigh gave of free margaric and oleic acids 4-1 grains, of margarate and oleatc of lime with traces of magnesia 2-4 gr., of a peculiar fibre containing nitrogen and traces of phosphate of lime 3*4 gr., of water ci gr. In the fatty matter here present margaric acid so predominated that it was necessary to add olive oil to allow it to crystallize freely in its characteristic form. In this as in all other respects this adipocere agreed perfectly with other specimens of adipocere from the human subject, and contrasted strongly with the results of fatty degeneration. Ormerod concludes that adipocerous transformation is altogether dif- ferent from fatty degeneration. The one is a chemical change of dead, decomposing matter; the other is a pathological process, and the part which chemistry plays is, as in inflammation and secretion, subordi- nate to the influences which are at work, however feebly, in a living body. Hebmanit, F. ; V. Kempff.—On Scwvy. Petersb. Med. Ztschr., 5, p. 293, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 27. Epidemics have prevailed at St. Petersburg in 1845, '48, '60, and '61; in the last, 131 cases of primary severe scurvy were brought to the hospital, and 10 cases of secondary, besides numerous cases of disease of various kinds with scorbutic complication. More than a third of the patients had suflfered from rheumatic disordei", a small part only with commencing marasmus. In the second stage, besides haemorrhages into the joints, under the periosteum, and the inner table of the os ilii, there was sometimes found separation of the costal cartilages from the bones. In the third stage dysentery never occurred, only catarrhal affection, attended sometimes with hfemorrhagic exudation. The urine was generally diminished in quantity, high coloured, clear, or, at a later period, turbid, always acid, and speedily became putrid. Its sp. gr. during the height of the disorder varied from 1009 to 1022; its solid constituents were always increased. As regards prognosis, haemorrhages into the joints and diarrhoea were unfavorable signs. Eff'usion into the pericardium and cerebral cavities was always fatal. With respect to {Etiology, Hermann remarks that all circumstances whicli weaken the forces of the organism may give rise to scurvy. He is quite certain that the limitation of the" supply of sour-crout to the soldiers, which has been tried on the score of economy, has produced scurvy. While the epidemic prevailed no condition or calling in life was exempted from its visitations, not even those who were well off. Cold and damp certainly promoted its action; but it is remarkable that the acme of the disease reached its height in April, May, and June, and declined in