13 CIRCULATION. outer side of a vessel an accumulation of nuclei; this increases in length, and becomes hollow. From such an outgrowth grape-like clusters of vessels may arise by a repetition of the same process; or it may form a loop either by the springing up of an internal partition, or by bencling on itself and ending in a kind of streak of protoplasma, which rejoins the vessel and forms a patli for tlie multiplying nuclei; or, finally, there may oTow from one vessel to another two narrow canals sparingly supplied with alternating nuclei, which seem to depend on a gradual projecting outwards of tlie new nuclei which arise from the division of the nuclei of the vessels. In cavernous tumours the strict formation of new vessels is rare. In inflammation of serous membranes, together with the conical out- growths which afterwards become hollow, there are formed also thick cylinders, consisting of oblong cells, at first solid, then pervious, just as in granulations. Similarly formed new vessels are met with in inflamed synovial membranes and> in tubercular and other forms of meningitis. The granulations which appear on mucous membranes in chronic catarrh, often in the form of polypoid excrescences (especially on the conjunctiva, the lining of the urinary and sexual organs, and in the mammellonee condition of the stomach), depend upon the formation of new vessels in the form gramilation-slioots, which push before thenithe exuberant epithelium. In the substance of organs, also, inflammation, especially chronicj is accompanied by new growths of vessels. In tissues originally non-vas- cular, as the cornea, these have an essentially reparative character, pro- tecting it from purulent disintegration. The new vessels formed in in- flammation of the lens proceed directly from the retinal vessels, on the type of the granulation-shoois. There are formed also in the QyQ new v(!ssels from those of the iris and ciliary processes, which, growing over the anterior and posterior surfaces of the capsule, occasion a vascularity of them which has been rightly described as periphakitis. The vascu- larization of cartilage in inflamed joints takes place from without on the same type ; but vessels are formed also by expansions of tlio meshes of connective tissue which occupy the interspaces of the carti- lage. In respect to the vascular tissues, the formation of new vessels is well shown in the caries of bone. By enlargement of the cavities in v^hich the bone-cells lie imliedded there arise larger spaces, which afterwards unite and arc converted into lobulated and expanding canalicuH. These are entirely filled with granulations, the vessels of which, richly furnished with nuclei, put forth knobs or buds, at first solid, afterwards filled with blood. Similar processes occur iu inflamed muscles and glands ; but the formation of vessels takes place less freely in acute inflammation, the rapid production of cells exerting a kind of counter-pressure, which restrains it. In hetero-plastic tumours new vessels are formed in a similai* way ; in some cases of very soft sarcoma the type which Weber calls that of vascular ccll-forination obtains. In a tumour of the breast Wagner observed in the cells which sur- rounded the new-formed vessels, instead of nuclei, pale-red corpuscles — I or more, up to 5—which were indistinguishable from blood-corpuscles. It seemed as though the nucleus had changed into a blood-globule, and