R E P 0 E T ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. BY. Dk. C. HILTON FAGGE. The death of the great German medical jurist, Johann Ludwig Casper, which occurred suddenly on the 24th February, 1864, gives occasion for a short account of his life and writings in the April number of the periodical of which he was the editor. He was born in Berlin, in 1796, and graduated at Halle in 1819. After a visit to France and England he settled in practice in his native town. In the year 1825 he was appointed extraordinary, and in 1839 ordinary, professor at the University of Berlin. He lectured at first, not only upon legal medi- cine, but also upon the diseases of children and upon pathology and therapeutics, but during the last 20 years of his life he devoted him- self entirely to medical jurisprudence. He was the founder and director of the practical course of instruction in this subject, in whicli he availed himself to tlie fullest extent of the various cases which came before him ; and his lectures were attended by students in both law and medicine, as well as by medical practitioners and by foreigners. So great were his zeal and energy that it is stated that he never omitted an autopsy, or left it to be performed by his subordinates. In the year 182 5 he entered the service of the state as " Medicinal-B-ath," was made a member of the "Royal Scientific Deputation" in 1834, and was appointed " Gerichtlicher Physicus " at the Prussian capital in 1841. This post he held at the time of his death. Except during the last ten years of his life, he was also engaged in active private practice. He was the author of several works on different medical subjects, but his fame will always rest on the additions which he made to medico-legal science. His ' Handbook of Forensic Medicine,' which is now being translated by the Sydenham Society, appeared in 181; 7. His last work was the 'Klinische Novellen,' published 1863. The ' Vierteljahrs- schrift fiir Gerichtliche Medicin' was begun in 1852, and continued up to April, 1864, which number completed tlie 25th volume. Since the death of the editor a new series has been commenced, under tho guidance of W. Horn.