188 llEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. One patient is always liot, another always cold ; one in constantly bathed in sweat, another for several days in succession does not sweat at all; whilst in a great number of instances the exacerbations of fever are un- attended by either a cold or a sweating stage. Diffused purple dis- coloratio]is, as well as true petechia) and sudamina, are not uncommon in this fever ; but, so far as I have hitherto observed, there is no peculiar and characteristic eruption. Exposure to the sun, especially if attended with fatigue, a sudden chill, or sleeping on the ground on cold dewy nights, are some of the most frequent causes. The disease can by no means always be traced to a malarious origin. In the matter of treat- ment the iirst thing to be done in every case is to purge, and if the constitution is robust a mercurial cholagogue is best. During the continuance of the fever acetate of ammonia and antimonial wine may be given, and, immediately on a remission being apparent, quinine. Chaplin usually gives quinine in doses of gr. v, uncombined, and in the form of pills. But when the remission is not marked, and the skin and tongue are dry, it may, with the best effect, be combined with calomel and antimonial powder. It is sometimes very difficult to decide whether quinine should be given whilst the patient is still hot or whether a remission should be waited for. No rule can be laid down; the state of the powers of the patient is the most important point to be considered. If the pulse is very frequent, and at the same time small and compres- sible, quinine may often be given Avith advantage, even when the heat of skin and dryness of the tongue show that the fever is at its height; but in these cases it should never be administered without calomel and antimony. Infusion of serpentaria with acetate of Ammonia is a most valuable medicine under these circumstances, promoting perspiration and at the same time supporting the powers. It is well to continue its use after the paroxysms have ceased, until all febrile symptoms have sub- sided, and the skin become soft and cool, when decoction of bark with soda may be substituted, and continued during the convalescence. Venesection may occasionally be employed for the purpose of bringing on a remission, and leeches may be applied to the epigastrium or behind the ears if vomiting or headache are troublesome. Agues in all their manifold varieties are met with in Jerusalem. Of 1666 cases of febrile disease attended to at the English hospital in 1862, 1147 were intermittent; in 1863, out of 1306, 931 were intermittent. In the first quarter of 1863 there were 133 cases, in the second 142, in the third, 261 and in the fourth 395. The suddeness with which a copious fall of rain ameliorates the medical constitution and dimi- nishes the prevalence of febrile disorders is very remarkable. But a more moderate fall, as of an inch or an inch and a half, followed by warm dry weather, produces an opposite condition, and increases con- siderably the amount of sickness. Also the slight showers just suffi- cient to wet the surface of the ground, which now and then occur during the summer, are very injurious; and the Arabs have a saying that each drop of such a shower is an ague. One of the most trouble- some of the irregular forms of intermittent fever is a kind of febricula which comes on every night without cold or shivering, and passes off again towards morning without a sweat. This is especially common in