ABNOllMAL PllESENTATIONS. 379 up to the fundus," and thus describes a position of the fcstus in which it may be expelled by the natural efforts without anything resembling spontaneous evolution or the other processes alluded to by Braun. Dr. Christie describes two cases, in both of which this position of the foetus was observed. The first case happened in a twin labour. One child had been delivered naturally, and the left arm of a second was found prolapsed into the vagina with the corresponding shoulder at the brim of the pelvis. The right hand was introduced for the purpose of turn- ing, when the head of the child was found to lie forwards over the horizontal ramus of the left os pubis, while the neck was so bent that it lay in contact at the same time with the right shoulder. The breech and feet were also turned upwards towards the fundus ; and the uterus contracted so closely round the body of the child, "in the form of along sheath," that neither the feet nor ankle could be reached. An attempt was made to push up the presenting part, but the shoulder, neck, and head, all compressed together, " much in the form of the breech," came rapidly down to the perinaeum, swept over it in half an hour, and passed through the outlet of the pelvis " with the shoulder jammed against the arch of the pubes, until the upper part of the trunk, with the head turned over towards the right shoulder, and, as it Avere, imbedded in the neighbouring parts, was born, when the rest of the body followed in the usual mode." The child was dead, and for a twin was large, weighing 6 lbs. In the second case, the left shoulder also presented, with the arm and funis prolapsed, and great difficulty was experienced in the introduction of the hand from the close contraction of the uterus round the foetus in the same sheath-like form as before. The right knee was at length brought down, and traction made with a blunt hook in the direction of the axis of the pelvic inlet. The foot was thus gained, the shoulder was now pushed up, and traction made on the de- livered leg, by which version was ultimately effected. Delivery was completed with some difliculty, but the woman recovered without a bad symptom. Dr. A, R. Simpson records a case in which the prolapsed funis was successfully replaced by placing the patient on her knees and elbows, as first recommended by Dr. Thomas (' Trans of ]S"ew York Acad, of Med.,' 1858, vol. 2). The patient was a multipara, with a very relaxed and dilatable cervix; the placenta was placed very low down on the uterine wall, and the umbilical cord, which was 21 inches in length, was inserted into the placenta within an inch of that pai-t of its border. As this mode of practice seems but little known, it may be worth re- calling Dr. Thomas's conclusions, which are—First, that the causes of the persistence of prolapse of the funis, whatever may at first have produced it, reduce themselves to two—the slippery condition of the displaced part and the inclined plane offered it by the uterus by which to roll out of its cavity. Second, that the only rational mode of treat- ment would be to invert this plane, and thus turn to advantage, not only it, but the lubricity of the cord which ordinarily constitutes the main barrier to our success. This can be readily accomplished by placing the woman on her knees, with the head down \ipon the bed.