114. IIEPOUT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. tracted. Its occasional connection with the results of previous inflam- mation, ensuing in obliteration of the pericardial cavity Ijy thick unyielding adhesions, is an equivocal inatance, not to be claimed absolutely as either an active or a passive pathological process. Under all other circumstances it generally contrasts strongly with fatty degeneration, and must be clearly distinguished from the simple atrophy of enfeebled muscle. For the design of this fibrous transformation is palpable—it is the substitution of a mechanical for a vital resistance to dilatation. Such a change Ormerod has found in the neck of the uterus ruptured during labour. Here, under the pressure of the uterine muscular tissue, the adventitious fibrous tissue, which could not dilate, was torn across. The pressure of the heart's contraction is probably not so great as, and its function is widely different from, that of the pregnant uterus ; so the results are not so terrible. Hearts which have undergone fibrous degeneration are not liable to rupture. But while this change resists dilatation most efficiently, at the same time it limits the contraction of the chamber of the heart thus involved, and reduces it so far to the condition of a mere containing vessel. In an appendix to his address Ormerod relates, at some length, the results of an inquiry into the chemistry of fatty degeneration, and states his belief that the process by which the muscular structure of the heart is changed during life into fat is essentially a pathological, a vital, not merely a chemical process. The muscular tissue, for experiment, was cut into small pieces, picked as free from adipose tissue as possible, and dried by pressui'e in a clean cloth. Pive hundred gi'ains were then taken for immediate analysis, an equal quantity was placed in one of the decom- posing solutions, and the rest was placed in a corresponding solution for the purpose of trial during the progress of the experiment. The first question is—What are the chemical results of fatty degenera- tion ? The amount of fatty matter present in seemingly healthy hearts varied from o"22 to 2'i4 per cent., the mean of 7 observations being o'gi6. Excluding two observations which contrasted strongly with the rest, the extremes were o'22 and o"54; the mean of these 5 observa- tions being o'455. In 2 hearts marked as granular the fatty matter constituted o'48 and 2 per cent, of the mass experimented on, the mean being i"24 per cent. One marked as distinctly fatty contained 274 per cent. The greatest care was taken in this case to piclc out any portions of adipose tissue from the substance to be analysed, so that the amount of fatty matter found on analysis is rather below than above the truth. Now, though the per-ceiitage of fatty matter in a heart not marked as unhealthy differed very little from that in the fatty heart—as little, indeed, as 2-14 from 274—yet the nature of the fatty matter was very different in the two cases respectively. In the healthy heart it was hard, dry margarine, while in the fatty heart the crystals of margarine swam in the oily part of the extract. One of the granular hearts displayed in a less degree this same excess of oleine. The fair inference seems to be that in fatty degeneration of the heart the fatty matter is increased, and that this is mainly due to an increase of the oleine, which enters only to a small amount into the composition of the fat of a healthy human heart. Tiie second question is—Can