RKPORT ON SURGERY. there is the more pressure. The opposite deformity, that of genu val- gum, arises in a similar way, owing to excesive pressure on the external condyle. All the examples seen by the author were in patients who were still able to use the limb in walking, the joint being flexed, but the inllammation not being very active. It must be remembered that the leg and thigli meet naturally at an angle salient to the inner side, that the strong internal lateral ligament alone prevents the production of genu valgum by the weight of the body, and that this ligament does not ofler the samts resistance when the joint is flexed as when it is ex- tended. Thus the external condyles are more especially pressed against one another, and after a time genu valgum is produced, as the bone gradually disappears where the pressure is excessive. More important than these changes is the subluxation of the tibia backwards, which so regularly accompanies flexion; the author has found it absent only when the contraction has been induced by some other cause than inflammation of the joint, or when the arthritis had very soon terminated, as in some cases of wounds; in all other more chronic cases, subluxation constantly appeared. This deformity is immediately owing to the bones being compressed and destroyed to a greater degree at their posterior part; it is promoted by contraction of the corre- sponding connective tissue, and by tension of the muscles. Anchylosis of the knee is far more often false than true. AVhen the angle is not extreme, the patient, though compelled to limp, can still generally use the limb; where the bones are extensively destroyed, the ligaments relaxed, or where the angle of flexion is very great, he has to use a wooden leg or crutch. In a case mentioned by the author, both extremities were affected; the patient used his arms as crutches, and had gained such skill as to move with great rapidity. Froriep was the first to throw some light on the mechanical impedi- ments to straightening the contracted knee; in his 346th plate and accompanying text with reference to a flexed knee caused by long con- tinuance in one position o\ving to caries of the foot, he decisively proved that the cause was not, as generally supposed, retraction of the muscles, but contraction of the fascia. Prof. Busch had for a long time no opportunity of dissecting an old contraction; but even in cases of am- putation of the thigh for acute disease of the joint he found that after dissecting ofi" all the soft parts and dividing the lateral and crucial liga- ments, the posterior portion of the capsule presented such resistance to straightening that the leg remained almost at a right angle. More recently he has dissected three specimens, though not one of them was, indeed, the direct result of articular inflammation. The first was ob- tained from an extremely anaemic girl of 19, who had not yet menstru- ated, and who for many years had suftered from necrosis of the femur, as a consequence of which the leg had become flexed at almost a right angle. An incision was made and a large sequestrum was readily ex- tracted. Violent and repeated secondary ha?morrhage ensued from the soft spongy granulations coating the interior of the bony capsule; plugging the cavity did not answer; ligature of the femoral and pro- lunda arrested the bleeding, but the patient was so exhausted that she