351 SUB-UKGUAL EXOSTOSIS. Very large calculi.-B. Gilbert, cases (' Amer. Joura. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 48, p. 9^)- ^r. Tyrrell ('Dubl. Quart. Journ., vol. ^^^Stor^eit^the female.-S. Wells on lithotrity ('Med. Tim. and Gaz ' 1864, i, II). G. M. Humphry ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 114)-. T. Bryant, two cases ti-eated by ra^nd urethral dilatation (1. c, 1864,1, 578). EXTEEMITIES. ill Nelaton on suh-imgual exostosis ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxv, p. 122).— Twelve months ago, a working man, set. 18, observed that the nail of the right great toe was gradually assuming an improper direction. The extremity of the nail was growing upwards, and caused inconvenience and even pain in walking. The incision of the exuberant portion of the nail gave but little relief, the outer edge of the toe became swelled and tender, and the patient applied to M. Nelaton. The professor easily detected in the painful part a small round tumour protruding beyond the point of the toe, and extending beneath the nail, Avhich it raised; the tumour was red, and presented an orifice from which pressure forced a little drop of pus. The firm consistency pointed to the diagnosis; an osseous growth could alone cause the symptoms. The disease was that described by Dupuytren under the denomination of exostosis of the upper surface of the great toe or subungual exostosis. The great toe is almost always the seat of the affection; once only M. Nelaton met with it in one of the fingers. It must further be re- marked that in nine out of ten cases the exostosis occupies the wider part of the dorsal aspect of the bone, near its external edge, and at the juncture of the lower with the middle third of the phalanx. The tumour is conical, and contains a bony nucleus covered by cartilage. In such a case, the incurvation of the nail upwards, and the consequent distress in walking, first attract the patient's attention. Paring the nail is, of course, employed, and sometimes suffices to relieve the pain; as, in many instances, a protecting horny covering, of moderate thick- ness, forms, the inconvenience becomes less. Yet it occasionally happens, as in the present case, that inflammation is excited by the friction of the shoe, and walking becomes difficult or impossible. The treatment is then plain—the exostosis must be removed. M. Nelaton proceeds as follows:—A muslin bag filled with salt and pounded ice is applied for two or three minutes over the toe, in order to deaden sensation, and with a short and strong knife, the tumour is isolated and removed; sometimes the gouge and mallet must be used. The dressing should be of the simplest character, and in the course of twelve days or a fortnight, healthy granulations form, and a solid cicatrix follows. This was the treatment employed in the present case, and the result was in every respect satisfactory. Upper extremity.—E. M. Hodges, ijyury of the arm common to children of from i—4 years of age ('Boston. Med. and Surg. Journ. ' Sept., 1862). M. Verneuil on an injury of the forearm in young