140 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. semblauce in the symptoms of the pleuro-pneumony ia the St. Jean d'Acre and Cressy to the lung disease in cattle, it is to be noted that there are good grounds for suspecting tliat the affection was commu- nicated by the sick landed from these vessels to other patients in Malta Hospital. BfiniER.—0/i Thoracentesis in PleuriUc E/pasion. .Tourn. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq. Edin. Med. Journ., Aug. The operation is indicated and ought to be performed—in all cases where the effusion is in large quantity, and does not diminish rapidly under the ordinary means, and still more if it goes on increasing; in all cases where the patient appears too delicate, too weak, to bear up against the long process of resorption of an effusion which occupies completely, or nearly so, one side of the chest; in all cases where, though the effusion is not very copious, we find the opposite lung impeded in the performance of its function, as by bronchitis, a certain degree of cedema, &c.; in all cases where we believe we have to do with a patient predisposed to pulmonary phthisis, whether we can make out itg existence in either of the lungs or not. Before practising the operation we wait, if possible, until the inflammatory phenomena have abated, which generally occurs between the 9th and the nth days. At the same time it must be borne in mind that inflammatory symptoms may be altogether absent, or at least very little marked in a large number of cases of copious effusions, and that it is precisely in these cases that sudden deaths are most frequent, as they are also those that recover best after thoracentesis. To refuse the operation in such circumstances, on account of the slight apparent gravity of the disease, and because we observe neither violent dyspnoea nor imminent asphyxia, would be, in our opinion, a grave fault on the part of the physician. These cases frequently occur in persons of little vital energy ; their very passiveness is often an obstacle to their cure by ordinary means. KiDD, Gr. H.—On the use of the Drainage-tuhe for removal of Jliiids caused into the cavity of the Pleura. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sciences, May, 1864. Kidd states (i) that the drainage-tube may be introduced into the cavity of the pleura with safety, and that in suitable cases it is a most efficient means of treatment. (2) In empyema the result of acute and chronic pleuritis it appears to be most useful, and in cases where the fluid in the pleura has been ascertained to be purulent, the sooner the tube is introduced the better is the prospect of a cure. (3) In cases where, after tapping, the fluid, which, in the first instance, is serous, reaccumulates quickly, produces much distress of breathing, the plan of drainage claims to be considered ; and a case recorded by Dr. Banks affords great encouragement to its use. (4) Where a fistulous opening exists in the wall of the thorax, but the discharge docs not escape freely, the retained portion becoming decomposed, the making of a counter-opening at the lowest part of the cavity, and introducing a tube, is shown by Goodfellow's and Gordon's cases to be highly advantageous. (5) In cases of hydro-pneumothorax the introduction of the tube may