9 SYPHILITIC DISEASE OP THE PALATE. Z%1 one hand, and ou the other to the middle of the palate, it can be seen and felt to be exposed. To remove the dead bone, a large part or even the Avliole jaw has been excised, any soft parts remaiiiing being re- moved at the same time, thus causing dreadful mutilation. It is clearly sufficient to extract the bone alone; for this purpose, Langen- beck in 2 cases separated the periosteum from the palate and. from the outer surface of the jaw, removed the dead bone, and united the edges of the separated periosteum by suture with perfect success. This operation should be performed as early as possible, i. e. as soon as the extent of the necrosis is decided; valuable time is lost, when,_as gene- rally happens, spontaneous separation of the necrosed piece is in vain awaited. Perforations of the palate are of comparatively frequent occurrence from syphilitic caries or necrosis. In rare cases tlie soft palate is at the same time more or less destroyed, its remains being united to the pos- terior wall of the pharynx. In an example recently observed by the author the velum in a man of 36 had been divided to within a line of its posterior end by syphilitic ulceration in such a way that the aper- ture, which was as broad as the finger, was not unlike a congenital fissure. There was also a perforation in the middle line through the palate-bones. The ulceration had extended from the velum to the peri- osteum and bone, inducing necrosis of the latter. This case is rare for another reason, because even extensive destructions of the velum usually cicatrize spontaneously, provided the perforation does not include its whole width or length. Perforations are more commonly found in the hard palate alone. The author has never seen syphilitic (so-called secondary) ulceration of the palatine mucous membrane penetrate to the bones and cause necrosis; syphilitic ulceration indeed appears to be unusual in the coverings of the hard palate. Perforations are generally the result of diseases which commence in the bones, and are therefore included in the class of tertiary aftections. Syphilitic osteo-periostitis and the gummy tumour of bone or of the periosteum occur in this region, but their course has not been so carefully observed as elsewhere. The gummy tumour of the periosteum appears on the surface of the skull as a small soft tumour, which is at first indolent, but after a time becomes very sensitive to the touch. It may run its course without the occurrence of the pains characteristic of tophi (gummy tumours of the bone) or of syphilitic osteitis. Thus there may be at the same time gummy tumours on the skull without pain, and enlargements of the tibia and clavicle which ache violently at night. As the disease ad- vances, the skin gradually reddens, becomes codematous and swollen; at length it gives Avay, allowing the discharge of a little pus and of a semi- transparent, jelly-like mass, and leaving a deep ulceration, at the bottom of which is the perfectly smooth dead bone. The ulcer gradually en- larges till all the infiltration has been thrown oft': the whole thickness of the bone generally dies, and the necrosed piece commonly takes six to eight months in exfoliating, after which the cerebral pulsations can be distinctly felt. The aperture may, however, after the lapse of a lono' period be closed by solid new bone proceeding from the endocranium, 21