•5<^* UEPOIIT ON JIIDWIFERY, KTC. occurred on the 3rd day, but the patient eventually made a cood recovery. ° I/ACEIIATIOX OP THE PEEIN^UM. Dr. Eobhison, " The Treatment of Laceration of the Perinajum into the Eectiim during Parturition" ('Med. Times,' vol. 2, p. 166). Dr. Eobinson records a case of severe recto-vaginal laceration, in •which rapid recovery took place, with good luiion of the parts. This was obtained by keeping the patient strictly at rest, witli the knees bound together, administering opium, and adopting a limited diet, con- taining very little solid food. In this case the rectum and vagina were laid open by a rent which was several inches in length. ° OPERATIONS m MIDWIFERY. TIfDXrCTIOK OP PEEirATUUE LABOUR. Prof. Brauu and Dr. Kiihn, "On the Induction of Premature Labour" ('AVienerMed. Wochensch.,' Feb., 1863). Prof. Simpson and Dr. Moir, ibid. ('Edin. Med. Jour.,' Mar., 1864). Dr. Kiihn records the cases of induction of premature labour which have occurred in the practice of Prof Braun, at the Vienna Lying-in Hospital during the last three years. Of the 20 cases, puncture of the membranes with the English elastic catheter or Simpson's sound was adopted in 4; intra-uterine catheterism with the elastic catheter or catgut bougie in 12 cases ; puncturing the membranes with catheterism, twice; intra-uterine injection with the apparatus of Larazewitsch in 2 cases. The causes which necessitated the operation were as follows :— Contracted pelvis, 9 cases; urtemia, 4 cases; dyspnoea from Bright's disease, 2 cases; and once for each of the following—tetanic spasms, pneumonia, chronic bronchitis, acute tuberculosis, chronic tuberculosis. The operation was performed at the following periods:—i in 23rd week of pregnancy; i in 24th; i in 29th ; 3 in 30th ; 6 in 32nd; 2 in 34th; 2 in 35th; 3 in 36th; and i in 37th. In 13 cases the child was born alive, but in 6 of these it died shortly after; in 7 the child was born dead. Of the women, 8 recovered perfectly; i died 8 weeks after, of phthisis; i recovered from the operation, but was attacked with acute inflammation of the knee; 10 died after labour—4 of puer- peral fever, 4 of Bright's disease, i of acute prrttiisis, i from h.-emor- rhage. Of the difi"crent methods, tiic preference is given to catheterism —Dr. Simpson's mode—especially in tliose cases where no dilatation of the 03 is to be detected. The catheter is introduced Avith compara- tive ease through the long, soft, narrow cervix, and after the stilette is withdrawn puslied up on either side towards the fundus of the uterus, between it and the membranes, and left lying tliere. In the 12 cases