JlliPORT ON I'UilLlC UKALTH. natural food; aud as cow's-milk is dear, a mixture of bread, water, and sugar, is substituted for it. Moreover, opium is largely given to infants in these places. The people take it themselves to relieve rheumatism aud neuralgia, and as a common stimulant; and they give it, in the form of Godlrey's cordial, to their children. Forty minims of laudunwn is the maximum dose given to children under i year. The medical men agree that "ablactation and narcotism" would be the proper description of the causes of more than lialf the infantile mortality—of deaths cer- tified as due to "premature birth," "debility from birth," "atrophy," " tabes," " marasmus," &c. Besides the influence which ought to be exercised personally by the clergyman, the surgeon, the coroner, and the registrar, in these districts. Dr. Hunter suggests two measures of public police:—i. The establishment of infant nurseries throughout the ganging districts. 2. The imposition of a license for the sale of opium, which would confine the trafiic in it to the larger shops, would make it more diflicult to get, and dearer, and would prevent the un- certainty which now exists as to the strength of the " Godfrey " which is given to infants. VENTILATION'. M. Tripier publishes some interesting observations (' Ann. d'Hyg.,' 43) P- 5) 0^ 't^s different methods of ventilating, lighting, and warming theatres. He shows that the system of ventilation, in which the central chandelier is made to create an ascending current, is in many I'espects defective. It either produces draughts, which annoy the occupants of the boxes, or else it fails to remove the impure air which the boxes contain, aud it is far from being favorable to the transmission of soimd. He recommends an arrangement which is exactly tlie reverse of this. According to this plan, fresh air enters the theatre imme- diately above and in front of the curtain, as well as by another aperture at the back of the stage. The impure air escapes by a number of apertures—some in the floor of the pit, others in the roofs of the boxes, and others above the galleries. All these apertures lead into vertical tubes, in which the air is kept in motion by mechanical means or by heating apparatus. This system of ventilation is stated to liave given satisfactory results wlien tried at Toulon in 1863. With reference to the illumination of theatres, M. Tripier shows that both the central chandelier and the footlights may with advantage be set aside, now that gas is used. The best method is that of having glass ceilings, above which the lights are placed. Tliis plan, thougli expensive, is adopted at the theatre of the Chatelet, and at tlie Gaito, and is per- fectly successful at the latter theatre. The next best method of illumi- nation appears to be that in which a row of jets, or a scries of small chandeliers, is placed round the theatre near the roof M. A. Morin (' Comp. Eend.,' 57, p. 720) has made some experi- ments which seem to show that water in the pulverized form, when dis- persed in a current of air, has a further action upon tlie air beyond simply rendering it moist; that it causes, in fact, the generation of ozone aud also of some acid substance which reddens litmus and is probably a