NERVOUS SYSTEM. 99 i Jiaustion froui uterine hsBmorrhage or leucorrhcea, that of the supra- orbital nerve in malarious intoxication. No explanation has been given of the interuiittency of neuralgia in certain cases where the cause is persistent. Trousseau has twice observed the most violent pains in the lumbo-sacral plexus occurring, with regular intermissions, produced by- cancer and fibroid tumour of the uterus. The extension of an existing neuralgia to other nerves is produced by the secondary weakness of the organism and the great irritabilitj^ of the whole nervous system to which this gives rise. The other branches of the same trunk are the first to be involved, and then the other branches of the plexus to which it belongs. V. rEAifQiiE, A.—On Prosopalgia. Wiirzb. Med. Ztachr., 4, 1863, p. 134. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 294. Pranque relates the case of a girl who suff'ered with this disorder from her 13 th to her 19th year, apparently as the result of a severe attack of typhus. She was tall, but pale, weak, and amenorrheal, and the genital organs and mammae were only in a rudimentary condition. The neuralgia afiiected sometimes one, sometimes another division, sometimes appeared periodically, resisted obstinately all measures, and was even aggravated by the interrupted and continuous current, so as to affect both sides. Twice the application of leeches to the perinaeum caused it completely to disappear; the amenorrhoea, however, continued. CosTES (Journ. de Bord., April, 1864; Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 169) relates a case of histrionic facial spasm (Mimischer Gesichts- krampf) cured by the inhalation of chloroform, followed by its local application for several days. The patient had been treated fruitlessly for 11 months previously by valerianate of atropia, quinine, assafoetida, and anthelmintics. ScHUH.—On resections of Nerves. Wien. Med. "Wochenschr., 13, i—5, 9, 10, II, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 217. Schuh makes the following general remarks as a sequel to 11 cases of neuralgia and 3 of neuroma in which he divided the nerves involved. The pain during the paroxysms of facial neuralgia may extend from the affected side to the other. The paroxysm exhausts the morbid sen- sibility for some time, so that immediately after it has ceased the contact of an instrument or the finger is readily borne, which would otherwise have been extremely painful. The pathological alteration which essentially gives rise to facial neuralgia consists most frequently in a transformation of the nerve-medulla into a fine granular mass, which reflects light in the same way as fat-globules do, and may or may not be blended with calcareous deposits. This change is the result of previous inflammation; the neurilemma is often manifestly reddened and thickened. Kesection of the nerve acts beneficially even in those cases where the mischief is more deeply seated than the surgeon's knife can reach. It is, however, necessary in such cases to divide all the twigs given off from the diseased branch beyond the affected spot, so as to cut off the sensory filaments from the more centrally seated trunk, and to do away with all conduction of impressions to it. "When sensory or compound nerves are wounded, so as to divide transversely about half the cord, no remarkable derangement often ensues in the