IfRl'ORT ON SUllOEllY. fatty degenei'atiou and development of corpora amylaeea—a process analogous to the so-called gray degeneration of the posterior columns of the spinal cord, the anatomical basis of most cases of tabes dorsalis." O. Lancereaux on the visceral Unions connected with constitutional syphilis (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 1501, &C.).—Syphilitic afl'ections of the ■viscera generally present anatomical characters sufficiently constant and distinct to indicate the cause on which they depend. They may all be naturally grouped under three forms, {a) that of interstitial inflamma- tion, (i) the gummy, and (c) the cicatricial form. Certain organs, as the liver and testicle, which contain a large amount of fibrous tissue, are more especially the seat of the first form. New elements, nuclei, cells, and fibres of connective tissue are developed; they cause at first increased volume, and at a later period retraction and atrophy of the aifected organ. At the latter period the surface of the glands mentioned is traversed by furrows and depressions, which give a peculiarly characteristic appearance. In the liver there is a lobular cirrhosis (cirrhosis with large granules), which is very different from the granular disease of drunkards (cirrhosis with small granules). This form is less distinct in the other viscera, as the brain, kidney, lung, or heart; in these organs, indeed, it bears the characters of cerebral sclerosis or softening, of interstitial nephritis, of pneumonia, and of chronic myocarditis. The second anatomical form of visceral syphilis is characterised by tumours of the size of a pea, a nut, or even a bean (gummata or gummy tumours). Differing little according to the organ, these tumours are firm or soft, of grayish, yellowish, or whitish colour, according to their age and the relative proportions of their histological elements, nuclear, cellular, and fibrous ; they are generally placed within dense, fibrous, grayish, vascular, and firmly resisting tissue, forming a kind of capsule, from which they may occasionally be enucleated; the presence of such a covering is, in the author's opinion, one of their best characters and often sufiicient to differentiate them from tubercular, cancerous, and other new formations. In their earliest stage these gummy tumours are formed of the embryonal elements of connective tissue; at a later • period they undergo retrograde or fatty changes. Hence it is possible for them to be again spontaneously absorbed, though even then they may leave behind them various lesions, such as cyst-like membranes in the brain, fibrous bands or cicatrices in the liver; thus even wlien the gummy tumour has disappeared, the latter point to its previous existence. In some cases, however, syphilitic tumours undergo a calcareous and not a fatty metamorphosis. Differing from cancer, from fibrous or fibro-plastic tumours, both by their defective vascularity and by the characters already mentioned, syphilitic tumours are more likely to be confounded with tubercular or scrofulous lesions, with vascular atheroma, with the products of glanders or farcy. Yet it is still possible to distinguish them from the latter affections by the characters already assigned and by attentive examina- tion of all the diseased organs, more especially of the liver. The cicatricial is in reality merely a termination of the preceding forms; it is characterised by the presence, on the surface of organs, of