257 TRAUMATIC NEURALGIA. regiment, was struck by a ball on the outside of the middle of tlie arm. The ball passed obliquely through, traversing the biceps muscle, and coming out on the inside. For two or three days he was exposed to the weather, lying under the piazza of a house, having but little food, and with his hand constantly wet Avith the rain which was falling.^ The hand was benumbed, but he suffered somewhat with a sensation of heat in it, which was partially relieved by keeping it exposed to the wet. There was no pain in the wound itself. Shortly after he was removed to Washington, wbere he first experienced very severe pain in the whole hand, but more particularly in the part of it supplied by the median nerve. I saw him about a fortnight after the receipt of the injury. He was then in constant and severe pain in the hand, so much so as to require to be kept more or less under the influence of morphia, which he was taking to the amount of a grain a day. On examining the point at which the wound was received, a puckered eschar was seen with an induration extending deeply into the belly of the biceps muscle to which the skin was adherent. The situation occupied by the vessels and nerves on the inside of the biceps was also enveloped in a mass of indurated tissue. The first idea suggested by this state of things was to cut down upon the nerve, to divide it. It seemed, how- ever, possible, by the gradual change going on in the tissues, that a healthy action might ultimately be set tip, and, at the same time, the indurated tissue surrounding and compressing the nerve might be ab- sorbed, finally relieving the nerve from pressure. The question was whether the sufferings of the patient could be sufficiently mitigated by artificial means to allow of the adoption of a temporising course. He was advised to place the limb perfectly at rest, wear it inside his clothes, next the body, and to have a sleeve made of sheet india-rubber to envelope the lower part of the arm, which covering was to be re- moved from time to time, the arm exposed to the air and washed with soap-and-water; he was directed to discontinue the use of the rubber sleeve if much irritation was set up in the skin, and to envelope the arm in flannel instead, which he had at all times found necessary owing to the great reduction of temperature. He went home to New Hampshire, and followed this plan for three or four weeks. At the end of that period he came to me again, with the desire of having the nerve divided, as his sufferings had become so intolerable, in spite of the use of opiates, as entirely to deprive him of rest. Before resorting to an operation on the nerve, I determined to try the effect of sub- ■ cutaneous injections of morphia. Half a grain of sulphate of morphia, in solution, was injected deep under the skin of the forearm twice a day. He was at once placed in a state of comparative ease, and the evening injection gave him a good night's rest, such as he had not enjoyed for many weeks. This plan was followed up for a month Avitli equally good effects; his digestion was not in the least affected by the use of the morphia, and he gained considerably in flesh. If, however, the dose was omitted, the pain became as bad as ever. It was there- fore decided to perform an operation. An incision of three inches in length was made over the inner edge of the biceps, and the integument i| dissected on both sides separating the cicatrices, caused by the entrance 17 I i