ABXOllMAL CONDITIONS OP THE PELVIS. .37-3 contract the space at the brim aud in the cavity. Kiliau based liis description* upon three pelves. One of these he saw in tlie Matcrnite, at Brussels, in 1836; the second is preserved at Prague; the third ia known as the Paderborn pelvis. In all these cases the Caisareau section liad been performed. This deformity has not been hitherto recognised or described in this country. Dr. Barnes now gives a brief account of its histoi-y, and relates some of the recorded cases.—(i) In the Brussels case tiie pelvis was quite normal, but the conjugate diameter was con- tracted to 3" 3"' by the falling of the lumbar vertebrjs in front of the sacrum, so that the promontory was formed by the 4th lumbar. (2) In the Prague case the patient died of haemorrhage after the Csesarean section, in 1849. '^^^^ 4^'^ ^"'l 5*^ lumbar vertebraj had sunk so low in the cavity of the pelvis that the promontory was formed, not by the junction of the 5th lumbar vertebra with the sacrum, but by the upper edge of the 4th. (3) In the Paderborn case the ist and 3rd preg- nancies terminated in premature labour, the second by the Ctesarean section, and the 4th in death after the Csesarean section. The body of this patient was so bent forwards that she resembled a quadruped in her gait. The other cases are recorded by Eobert, of Coblentz, Spaeth, Brauu, Birnbaum, Hecker, Breslau (two cases),t and Lambl. In Dr. Barnes's case the patient, ret. 34, had had five children, and four years back an abortion. The first three labours were natural. In the fourth, which occurred seven years before, the midwife attending " had some trouble in gaining the head," and the patient complained of being severely pressed upon the back. From that time she has been unable to stoop, aud has no strength in the left side. She had fever, described as rheumatic, following this labour; was much blistered to relieve the pain, and was admitted into the London Hospital, where she remained as in- or out-patient fifteen mouths. Some degree of para- plegia followed, and in the fifth labour, five years back, the child was stillborn, dying in its birth from obstruction to the passage of the shoulders. She reckoned that she was now 3^ months pregnant; suffers from great pain in the back, and cannot stoop. A marked depression of the last lumbar vertebra inwards was found on examination, above this, the three next lumbar vertebraj projected outwards in a curve ; the riglit hip was higher than the left; she had no power to bend the spine, and in order to stoop was compelled to find a rest for her hands, and then to bend upon the hip-joints. Neither the true promontory formed by the sacrum, nor the assumed false one formed bv the lumbar vertebra?, could be reached by the finger, and pressure on the sacrum gave paui. From the nature of the case, induction of labour was advised at the end of seven months' gestation. This was accordin"-ly effected by Dr. Barnes's method, and in an hour uterine action was excited aud the cervix nearly fully expanded. The membranes were then punctured, but, finding the head did not advance after waitiuo- * ' De Spondylolistliesi gravissimcB pelvangustia), causa nuper cktoctn, Comraentatio Anatom|co-ol,stctr.cia,' Uonna-, 1853; and ' Schilderungen noucr IJeckenformen' Jliinulieiiii, 1854. "jiuiwu, t A summary of Brcslau's second case will be found in the ' Year Book' fcr 1S62.