DISEASES OP THE OVAUIES. 409 cancer, or other of the graver diseases which are commonly attended by htemorrhage, the uterus may become congested from some derange- ment in the chylopoietic viscera, and hajmorrhage from the uterine mucous membrane is the result. Or the general condition of the blood may be so deteriorated and impoverished by kidney disease, or some otlier debilitating cause, that it can scarcely be retained in its customary channels, and so escapes from the uterus, because, in addition to the influence of gravitation, its mucous membrane is so constructed that blood can be easily poured out on its surface. Again, persistent con- gestion and even hypertrophy of the uterus are liable to result from such attacks of ovarian irritation as lead to uterine congestion and haemorrhage. The tendency to haemorrhage is hence increased, and the diagnosis rendered the more difficult. In some patients, ovarian irrita- tion manifests itself as one of the forms of dysmenorrhoea, the regular periods being attended with much pain and large losses of blood; yet the haemorrhage occurs only at these times, and subsides when the period is past. In these cases the symptoms are not usually explained by the condition of the uterus, but one or other ovary may frequently be felt prolapsed into the retro-uterine cul-de-sac, enlarged and sensi- tive to touch, in the interval between the periods, but especially so before and during menstruation. The discharge is sometimes mixed, not only with coagula, but with distinct membranous shreds ; and some authors regard this mem- branous dysmenorrhoea rather as the result of uterine congestion not primarily dependent on ovarian irritation. Eigby held an opposite opinion, and believed that the membranes, which are only the separated mucous lamina) from the interior of the uterus, were formed in sympathy with morbid changes occurring in the ovary, just as the true decidua ia formed in consonance with those physiological changes which take place as the result of impregnation. The author believes ovarian menorrhagia is, in many cases, closely connected with "pelvic hae- matocele," since the subjects of the latter condition habitually men- struate profusely, and ia a large proportion of cases menorrhagia precedes the extravasation of blood and the development of the attendant symptoms. In the statistics on hematocele which have been collected by M. Voisin * we find that the extravasation of blood was occasioned by rupture of the ovary, or some of the vessels leading to it, in two thirds of the patients affected, and that in a considerable pro- portion of the cases the ovary had undergone some antecedent softening or degeneration, the progress of which had probably provoked the previous sympathetic menorrhagia. In some cases of ovarian menorrhagia the author has had reason to believe that blood has escaped into the peritoneal cavity from rupture of the ovarian vessels, giving rise to acute symptoms, but not being sufficient in quantity to form such a tumour as is understood by the term hacmatocele, and of this he adduces a case in point. The causes of ovarian menorrhagia may be briefly stated to be those producing morbid congestion of the ovaries, viz., imperfect recovery ' De riiscmatocele retro-uterine,' i860.