60 IIEPOIIT ON I'RACTICAL lIliDlClNE. urea is nearly doubled, and the chloride of sodium quintupled, Tiie increase of urea is common to all febrile diseases. The points in which Nicholson lays most stress are the disappearance of uric acid during the whole of the fever day, and tlio diminution during tlie same period of tlie phosphoric acid to one cujhlh of its normal amount. ] Ee adds, " proceeding as phosphoric acid does from the metamorphosis of nervous tissue, does not its diminution in the urine of ague show that the disease is charac- terised by a depression amounting nearly to paralysis of some parts of the nervous system?" BiDWELL.—The Tonrjuc in Ilalarious Disease. Erit. Med. Journ., April 23, i864._ _ In the condition of the tongue referred to the under surface appears to have trespassed upon the upper, the papilUe of tlic latter being supplanted by the transverse rugiu of the former. The sides are thickened and rounded, the normal well defined edge being obliterated, and the line of demarcation moved to nearer the mesial line. This ajipearanco of the sides may be associated with any and every possible appearance of the remaining papillary surface. When it exists it is a sure indication that quinine is requisite, but this remedy need not be continued until tliis state of the tongue disappears, TtJRXEB, A. P., M.D.—Ohservations of 100 cases of Intermittent Fever in which the Sulphate of Cinehonia xvas v.sed as a substitute for Quinia. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, April, 1864. Turner concludes that an extensive use of both substances justifies the statement that in slightly larger doses cinehonia is equal as an antiperiodic to quinia; so much so, that in private practice where either can be pro- cured, he orders the former with as much assurance of success as if the latter were used. It is more soluble, tends less to derange the gastric functions, begets less of the malaise, the cephalic symptoms are less violent and enduring, and it is not followed by any special unpleasant effect more than is observed to ensue after use of quinia, and it may be administered in all cases and under all circumstances where this substance is indicated. Mellee, C. J.—On, the Fever of East Central Africa. Lancet, Oct. 22, Nov. 5, 1864. A valuable paper for reference. Haee.— On the treatment of Malarious Fever. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Nov. 5, 12, 19, 26, Dec. 3, 10, 17, 24. The author claims to have clearly ascertained that all the Calcutta fevers are malarious, and are all curable by quinine, the disease being checked in 24 hours, and finally removed in 48. _ He gives gr. xxx at the commencement of the treatment, and gr. xx at intervals of not less than 3 hours, until cinchonism is produced. He claims to have treated 6982 i'ever patients, with only 4 deaths in every 845 cases. In a trial made in one of the Calcutta hospitals 292 cases were treated on a regular plan of giving quinine solely, with the result of only 2 deaths. In cases where there is much irritability of stomach, Hare acknowledges the good