XKRVOL'S SYSTKM. physic in such cases as the foregoing, and the importance of moral treat- meiit. Mabtxit, S., M.D.—Oii the plipioloc/ical meaninr/ of Infra-mammcmf pain. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. lo. After stating his reasons for being dissatisfied with previous explanations, Martj'n affirms that in cases of tliis intercostal neuralgia there is palpi- tation on any exertion, and that in most cases the pain and the palpi- tation have a distinct connection. On posing the question—why is pain almost invariably confined to the sixth, seventh, and eighth intercostal spaces of the left side ? the answer seemed to be a relation to the heart. Reflected or radiated pain is now recognised as extremely common, and in the view that the pain in question might be of this nature, Martyu inquired—are there any nerves supplied to the heart, and to the 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal spaces from the same central region ? and finds that a most important anatomical relation requires to be taken into account. The aortic arch impinges on the left side of the third dorsal vertebra; and opposite the 4th, 5th, and 6thj it receives contributions to its plexus from the corresponding ganglia of the sympathetic, while its plexus again contributes to the heart. These sympathetic nerves have, however, just received branches from the intercostal nerves themselves; and so it is that the heart and the intercostal spaces (4, and 6), are supplied by branches of the same nerves. Moreover, this is on the left side and above only, for on the other side more of these branches go to the oesophagus, while below those from the 6th ganglion chiefly go to form the large splanchnic nerves. Now, the 4th, 5th, and 6th intercostal nerves are those which give off large, lateral, cutaneous branches, descending over two ribs before they terminate in the skin over the 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal spaces, or the site of infra-mammary pain. Smaller twigs of the same nerves supply the ends of the same intercostal spaces, where the pain may also be perceived. He then refers to V. Bezold's experiments, I reported in the Year-Book, 1864, p, 19, as showing that the region of I the cord referred to contains nerves passing out to the heart. Thus the ' anatomical nervous connection between the heart and the region of infra- , mammary pain, became endowed with a great significance, and it seemed I more than ever probable that the sensorium received the impression of i some distress in the heart through nerves which enter the gray posterior * columns of the cord at the same point as those from the 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal spaces. The central impression is radiated, and referred by the mind to the sensitive skin. In tlie case of aneurism of the descending portion of the aortic arch, the same nervous circuit accounts for the pain in the side, which is indeed a more aggravated form of infra- mammary pain. In severe instances of intercostal neuralgia painful spots are also to be found near the sternum and spine, at peripheral ends of cutaneous nerves, and even in the arm, which through intercosto-humeral branches receives also sensory nerves from the same source. In these and other ways the theory here laid down explains the actual phenomena. For instance the pain may be (though always to a much less extent) felt on the right side also. Now, although the first internal dorsal branches of the sympathetic on the right side go to the ccsophagus, some of them