EEPORT ON PRACTICAL StEDICINE. 118 splenic enlargement increased untU the organ reached down to the right iliac region ; the liver was enlarged from the time of hia admission, but did not continue to increase. The patient was a male, ret. 23 ; had never sulFered from ague. The urine was usually normal. The diseasje progressed and must have proved fatal shortly after he loft the hospital. EiOHWALD.—On lite nature of Stenocardia {Angina pectoris), and its relation to Siib-jyarali/sis of the Jlearf. In 9 cases, observed during 4 years by the author, there were some very constant symptoms, which he considers essejitial. In .3 instances, in I'emales, the disorder appeared to be a neurosis. In all, the action of the heart was diminished during the paroxysms of pain, so much so as sometimes quite to disappear, while during the intervals and at the close of an attack it was visibly increased. The respiratory movements were, in all the instances, imperfect by reason of the pain; but there was no real dyspnoea, unless a severe paroxysm lasted for some time. During the acme of an attack the condition is one of pulselessness, apucea, and arrest of circulation. The heart is distended with blood during the paroxysm, and does not empty itself completely. It thus comes in contact with a larger surface of the wall of the chest, and as its muscular fibi-es contract vividly there is produced a strong diffused impulse, together with indistinct sounds and a weak pulse. The anginose attack depends not only on mere depression of the heart's action by weakness, but on an actual arrest of it by a mechanical im- pediment, and the pain is produced by the more or less unavailing efforts which the heart makes to overcome this obstacle. In the purely neurotic cases he believes this impediment to be produced by irritation of the regulating nerves of the heart. Lanceeeatjx.—6az. Hebd., 14, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 26. Records a case of angina pectoris, where after death the following condition was found. The patient was a male, £et. 54. In the aorta, between the openings of the two coronary arteries, which were con- siderably narrowed, there was an elevated patch of new-formed con- nective tissue situated between the inner and middle coats, and sending ramifications into the former; the outer coat at the corresponding part was highly.injected, and'the cardiac plexus in the same situation was covered with vessels, some of its fibres thickened by a kind of plasma, and some of its nervous elements wasted by pressure, as was shown by microscopic examination. A calcified tuberculous mass, the remains of a lymphatic gland, lay below, and was adherent to the recurrent nerve. The heart and its valves normal. London, B.—Oesterrh. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 9, p. 42, 186.3. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 175. ■ Mentions a case of enteric fever, proving fatal in about twelve days, in whom a systolic murmur was heard all over the heart, loudest be- tween the second and third left ribs, where there was A'ibratory impulse. The murmur disappeared before death. It was loud enough to quite mask the first sound of the left ventricle. The second pulmonic sound was accentuated. At the poe^.mortem the valves were fouud healthy;