OCCUPATIONS. 471 mixed with some foreign colouring matter. The different specimens also varied extremely in strength. The liquids used to give the proper tint to wood vinegar appear to be chiefly the juice of the elderberry (which, with alum, is the main constituent of the " teinte de Pismes"), the flowers of the hollyhock, and a substance called the " rasin vierge du Bresil," the botanical nature of which is unknown. It may, perhaps, be the fruit of the Phytolacca decandra, the employment of which would be likely to produce injurious effects. M. Chevallier strongly recommends that the terra "vinegar" should be confined by law to that variety of acetic acid which is prepared from wine. For deter- mining the strength of vinegar he recommends the acetimetre of Eeveil, the principle of which is to neutralize the acid with a standard solution of borax coloured blue by litmus. MEDioiini:. Dr. A. Taylor (6th Eep., &c. ; Appendix, p. 743) reports on the extent to which injury to health is caused by the carelessness and incompetence of persons engaged in retailing drugs, and on the unne- cessary facilities for the purchase of poisons for criminal purposes. OC0UPATIO]SrS. Tailors.—Dr. E. Smith reports on the sanitary state of the tailors in London (6th Report, &c.; Appendix, p. 414). The more important of his conclusions are the following:—The sanitary conditions under which tailors live are exceedingly unfavorable to health. Over-crowd- ing, ill-ventilation, and excessive heat, are especially found in shops; whilst irregularity in work and night-work are chiefly met with in those who work at home. (The extent to which overcrowding prevails in the workshops may be estimated from the fact that the average space for each man and gas-light is 156 cubic feet, the highest being 270, and the least 105 cubic feet. Such a state is, as far as Dr. Smith knows, unparalleled in workshops in other trades.) Men working in shops at the West End get better food than those who work at home, and much better food than their own families obtain at home. As a rule, tailors working in shops eat animal food of some kind 3 times a day, and are, whilst so working, sufficiently fed. Their moral and social habits have much improved of late years, but excess in the use of beer is still very common, and about one fifth or one sixth of them drink ardent spirits daily. Their diseases are chiefly colds, sore throats, muscular pains, rheimiatism, indigestion, headache, bilious attacks, constipation, piles, asthma, and consumption. The amount of respiration, and there- fore of vital action, is insuflicient for health, and whilst perspiring, or with the akin exceedingly sensitive, they expose themselves to cold air, conditions tending directly to the production of chest diseases. The mortality, as shown by the Registrar-General's returns, is much higher than that of agricultural labourers. Consumption and other forms of chest aflection are the most frequent of the fatal diseases to which they are subject, and constitute tw-o thirds of all the causes of death. Pr. Smith's own observations lead him to the belief that they are a