PSYCHIATE.IK. 107 belonff to the hereditary class of cases. Some of these patients have beeu admitted from 2 to 10 times. This tendency of hereditary ia- sauity to recur is one of its most important characteristics, and claims our special attention in the prevention, prognosis, and treatment of such cases. Much may be done, especially in those belonging to the upper and middle classes, to prevent the recurrence of the malady. Question VIII refers to the domestic condition of those having heredi- tary insanity. The per-centage of married persons among the heredi- tary cases was 2975, of single 66-^^, of widowed ; the correspond- ing numbers among the non-hereditary are 28-4, 64-2, and y-j.. On the whole, it will be seen that at the time of attack fewer hereditary cases are or have been married; and it is somewhat interesting to notice the marked lowness of the per-centage among the widowed, probably owing to the hereditary disease appearing earlier in life. Question IX refers to the proportion of recoveries and deaths in the hereditary and non-hereditary cases. The per-centage of recoveries is higher among the hereditary cases than among the non-hereditary ones, 36'9 : 32'2 ; while the per-centage of death is lower among the former (20'6) and higher among the latter (22'8). Hood's experience agrees with Stewart's, the high per-centage of recoveries (6o'3) among the hereditary cases is very remarkable, and indicates the curability in the early attacks of this form of mental disease. Question X relates to the duration of life in hereditary insanity. Stewart believes that the dura- tion of life is shorter among this class than it is among the insane generally. The per-centage of deaths occurring before the age of 50 is 65*37 in hereditary cases, and according to Thurnam 36'68 in cases generally. The mass of the hereditaiy cases die between the ages of 30 and 60, while the massof the insane generally die between the ages of 40 and 70. Sandeh.—On Blieimatism andlfental Disorder. Ztschr. f. Psychiatrie, 1863, p. 214. Journ. of Mental Science, Jan., 1864, p. 581, Sander gives 5 cases, with the following conclusions:—(i) That severe mental disorder may occur, not only during the persistence of acute rheumatism in the joints, but be prolonged for a month or upwards after this has ceased. (2) This mental lesion manifests itself without fever, usually with the character of depression, and often as decided melancholia with stupor. A state of excitement may follow, or be intercurrent with the melancholia. (3) Now and then convulsive or choreitic movements complicate the mental disturbance. (4) The pro- gnosis is very favorable; and recovery, so far as the few recorded cases go to show, comes most rapidly and surely when a fresh attack of rheu- matism supervenes in the course of the cerebral affection. It may generally be assumed that the brain affection and the rheumatism stand more closely related than do the chronic cerebral disorders consequent upon other acute diseases ; as, for instance, typhus, where autemia ot the brain, or some other general cause, may be assigned as the basis of the psychosis. The question for solution is whether this association of rheumatism and insanity is attributable to the rheumatic poison acting upon the cerebrum md producing a form of rheumatic meuingitia,