MOBTALITY AFTER OPERATIONS. 195 explained by the ordinary laws of reproduction. In order to ascertain what f erms might be suspended or floating in the atmosphere, he adopted the simple expedient of causing a current of air to pass over gun-cotton— a substance soluble in a mixture of ether and alcohol. The fine fibres of the gun-cotton act as a sort of air-filter, arresting all the solid particles, and the finest powders are found in the solution, and fall slowly to the bottom of tlie fluid. By careful microscopic examination he found in these atmospheric impurities (i) a quantity of granules of starch, very easily recognisable, and the numbers explained by the abundance of cultivated cereals; and (2) corpuscles which resemble in every particular the germs of the lowest organisms, and vary greatly in size and structure. The germs so collected are fecund. If they are sown in infusions in which any pre-existing germs have been destroyed by ebullition, and which have only been exposed to air which cannot possibly contain any living organism, as it has been passed through a tube of red-hot platinum, an abundance of cryptogamic vegetables or infusorial animalcules very soon appear. These are the Mucors or Mycodermes, which cover the liquid with a greasy or gelatinous pellicle ; the Mucedinea, formed of small tubes ; Tortdacea, or non-tubular plants, which attach themselves to the bottom of the vessels. The infusoi'ia are small Monads, Bacteria, and Vibrios. The Bacteria, especially the Bacteritm termo, exist in the air in immense abundance. This smallest of the infusoria is found also in all putrefying substances. It multiplies in the intestinal canal of man, and is found constantly in the white matter which collects daily between the teeth. In sour milk it is found in company with Vibrios, the most vivacious of the infusoria, whose germs are not destroyed by a temperature of 100° Centigrade. The spoi-es of the Mucedinea remain fecund even up to 120° Centigrade. It appears that a short exposure to 130° Centigrade destroys all fecundity even in the most robust; but in nature neither spores, vegetable, nor animal germs, are ever exposed to a degree of heat which can render them sterile. " "When an organic infusion has been deprived of germs by heat, and is mechanically protected from the corpuscles which the air might carry to it, it is as unalterable as an ordinary chemical solution of a mineral. The liquids ordinarily the most prone to fermentation now show no tendency to decomposition—no symptom of life is manifested. It is quite clear, therefore, that the development of living beings in organic infusions is not spontaneous, and that, in the circumstances under which fermentation ordinarily takes place, the germs of the living beings are carried in the atmosphere. " The germination of inferior beings as powerful agents of decomposition has relations as important in the putrefactive as in the fermentative process. "Whenever organic matter undergoes change—dies, is decom- posed, putrefies—germs are sown, which find their nourishment in the remains given up to destruction. "Without these germs the immediate principles of living bodies would be almost indestructible; with them, everything which has ceased to live is retiirned to the atmosphere and to the mineral kingdom. Blood as it issues from the arteries, fresh urine milk received into close vessels, and open only to air which had been deprived of germs, remained unaltered for three years; but when these liquids were exposed to ordinary atmospheric air, they very soon became