PEELIMINARy LIGATURES. 203 proceeding were for the most part illusory; that ligature of the common carotid was tedious, difficult, and dangerous ; that at all events it could only be applicable to cases of cancer, with which he preferred not to meddle. M. Chassaignac recommended that if the ligature were passed round the vessel, it should not be tied until required. M. Verneuil replied that the latter plan involves as much danger and does not present the same advantages as at once tying the thread, and that it is in cancer that this proceeding is specially required. He has collected twenty-five clear cases of preliminary ligature and five of ligature during the operation; of this number nine died, four from causes quite indepen- dent of the ligature, and of the rest two only appeared to him to be certainly owing to that proceeding. He is therefore of opinion, that the preliminary ligature of the carotid should be used in certain serious cases, for example, when the tumour is of enormous size, when it is very vascular, when it is seated in a difficult region traversed by important organs, and when the patient is much debilitated. The common trunk should be tied, when there is reason to fear a wound of the internal carotid ; in other cases the external division should be ligatured if possible. Ligature of the common carotid 2^er se, exposes the patient to serious danger, but on the other hand it is attended by decided advantages ; it renders possible, or even comparatively easy, operations which would be almost impracti- cable without it. M. Eichet (ib., 1864, p. 27) urges that Verneuil's statistics are too favorable; that ligature of the carotid followed by a serious operation cannot be more favorable than ligature of the carotid jjer se; that in the latter cases there has been a mortality of 25 per cent., and that therefore in the former there will be at least one death in four cases. As to tying the external carotid, he thinks that when it is possible, the tumour must be small and the operation unnecessary, and that when it would be use- ful, the tumour is large and the ligature extremely difficult or impossible. G-. B. A. Hanuschke, twenty-five years' experience in operative surgery, (Leipz., Engclmann). C. Bojanus, cases from the hospital of Nischuy-Nowgorod, 1855 to 1859; a contribution to operative surgery, (Dorpat, Gliiser). J. 1\ Heyfelder, report on operations performed at the St.Petersburg "Arbeiter-Hospital" in 1862 ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 36). MATERIA CHIRUEGICA AND THE MEDICAL TREATMENT OP SURGICAL OASES. Dr. Heineke adduces two examples ('Greifsw. Med. Beitr.' ii; "Keport of the Soc. of Baltic Phys.," p. 12) for the purpose of showing the practical value of measurements of the temper attire* in surgical diseases. He first points out, that in certain cases of articular inflammation, the use of the thermometer enables the surgeon to decide, whether there is already caries or not; remittent fever with the thermometer ranging in the morning between 37-5° and 38-5° C, and in the evening between 38-5° and 40" C, proves the existence of articular caries, provided otlier causes can be excluded. Again, measuring the temperature is of use, when an * Vide ' Ycnr-Tlook* for 1862, pp. 183—201.—T. W,