202 bbpout on surgery. instances which have como before mo load me to believe that the fact must bo well known to every surgeon. Ever since I liavo known tlic practice of Guy's Hospital, I have constantly visited the surgical wards to give an opinion about a rash in a patient who has recently undergone an operation ; and this rash generally resembles scarlatina. It is, also, well known, that puerperal women are often said to die of scarlatina taken soon after labour; and here it may be suggested, whether the rash be not due to some special condition of the system existing at that time. I do not allude to eruptions which may be seen in cases of pyaemia and other blood- poisons ; for they are generally of an erythematous or roseolous kind; whilst the scarlatina-like rash occurs soon after operations, and before there is any evidence of pyaemia." G-. May, case of scalp-wound, followed by scarlet rash (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 428). J. Edmunds, scarlatinoid disease after operations (ibid., p. 453). J. Symc, excision of the scapula (Edinburgh, Edmouston and Douglas).—In this work three cases are recorded, which show that the entire scapula, either alone, or together with the arm, may be removed without much dilReulty or loss of blood; that the wound may lieal quickly and soundly; and that the arm, if preserved, may be strong and useful. Discussion on the preliminary ligatwe of arteries ('G-az. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 772).—M. Verneuil, after giving an account of a case in which he hud removed a parotid tumour, called the attention of the Surgical Society of Paris to the question of preliminary ligatures. Oases undoubtedly occur in which death is caused during or soon after the operation by bsemorrhage; in one related by M. Michaux (of Louvain), the removal of a naso- pharyngeal polypus was followed by such formidable bleeding, that that surgeon considered it necessary to resort at once to transfusion. As to the objections made to preliminary ligature of the common carotid, M. Verneuil remarked, that if it prolongs the first part of the operation, it shortens the latter part, and that if in some cases there has been free bleeding after it, there would have been enormous without it. He thinks that the questions, whether the ligature could be replaced by some other means, such as mediate or immediate compression, temporary ligature, ligatm-e of the external carotid, and to what extent ligature of the com- mon carotid is in itself dangerous, require further investigation. After sketching the history of the operation (ib., p. 633), he asks—(i) Ought the preliminary ligature to be totally abandoned ? (2) Are the advant.iges less than the dangers ? (3) What are the advantages, and what the dangers ? (4) Instead of permanently arresting the circulation, ought we to stop it only for a time ? (5) If so, what method should we use ? (6) It cannot be denied that ligature of the common carotid is attended by special dangers: can it be replaced by ligature of the external carotid ? (7) Admitting that the preliminary ligature of the common carotid is to be rejected, should we also abandon that of the subclavian, axillary, or iliacs, to which the same objections do not apply ? (8) Ought we not to distinguish ligature of the vessel in the very wound from that where the artery is exposed at a considerable distance nearer the heart ? M. Eichet urged (ibid., p. 788) that the advantages of this preliminary