UEl'OUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 388 CESABEAK SECTION. Dr. Gieenhalgh, " On the Casearean Section" (' Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5. i860- Dr. M. T. Sadler, " A Case of Ctcsarean Section " (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 2, 1864, p. 141). Dr. J. W. Anderson, Jamaica, "A Successful Case of Ca?sarean Section for both Mother and Child" ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' July, 1864). 1. —Dr. Greenhalgh urges thab in difficult cases of craniotomy the lives of many of the mothers and most of the children would be saved by the timely performance of the Csesarean section. In one casein which he had operated the woman was so weak from mollities ossium that it was thought impossible she could survive the operation. She lived, however, three weeks after, and then died from rupture of the transverse colon, the distortion causing occlusion of the rectum. The child was saved. Dr. Greenhalgh strongly urges the early performance of the operation, before the membranes rupture or the mother is exhausted. The incision should be made in the linea alba, and as nearly as possible through the centre of the body, and not through the neck of the uterus, in which, although there are fewer larger vessels, yet the contractile power is far less, and there is consequently a far greater liability to haemorrhage. The abdo- minal and uterine wounds should be held together by the fingers of an assistant placed within the extremities of an incision ; immediately after the extraction of the foetus and secundines the finger should be passed from within through the neck of the uterus into the vagina, so as to secure a free exit for the discharges; the uterus should be firmly grasped by the hand, so as to obtain its free contraction ; and when all fear of hajmorrhage is over the abdominal wound should be brought together by the interrupted suture, and further secured by broad strips of adhesive plaster. As a rule, the author administers no medicine, but treats each symptom as it arises. One remarkable case is related where the patient was up and about Jive days after the operation; she was, however, the subject of a very large umbilical hernia. 2. —In Dr. Sadler's case the patient was a primipara jpt. 21, and the birth of the child was obstructed by an enormous hydatid cyst of the liver, which occupied the whole upper part of the abdomen, and e.\tended down- wards along the spine to the pelvis, being so compressed by the pressure of the uterus from above as to assume tlie character of a bony growth from the promontory of tho sacrum. The operation was performed in the usual way, and a full-sized dead child was extracted, but the mother sank on the day after the operation. 3. —Dr. Anderson's patient was a black girl set. 25. The pelvis was dis- torted from rickets, and the vagina barely admitted two fingers below and only one above. Tho operation was performed early, with the mem- branes unruptured. Much of the liquor amnii escaped into the abdominal cavity, and smart oozing occurred for some minutes from some of the largo venous sinuses at the lower edge of the uterine wound. This was checked by the application of a sponge dipped in cold water. Severe