460 REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. sound. The incmbrane was not yielding, so that it could not have been pushed up by the penis. ABORTION. Zechmeister ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 81) records the fol- lowing remarkable case :—He was called in to see a woman, set. 2 5, and found her suffering from an abscess situated over the lower end of the right .sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Pressure on this part caused most offensive discharge from the vagina. On examining the genital passage with the finger a hard rough body was felt, which was at first sup- posed to be a portion of necrosed bone. This body was placed trans- versely in the pelvis, projecting at one end into the os uteri, while pos- teriorly it was fixed in the bone. It was carefully removed, and was then found to consist of a twig, apparently of the Prunus spinosa, wound round with a partially destroyed silk ribbon. The patient now admitted that, 5 months before, believing herself to be pregnant, she had gone to a woman, who had performed some manipulations within her genital organs which had given her great pain. Soon after this her disease made its appearance, the fetid discharge from the vagina commencing at the end of about 6 weeks. Zechmeister remarks that in Bssegg it is not uncommon for abortion to be produced in the 5th and 6th month by women, who perforate the membranes, or even the foetal head, with a pointed instrument. DELIVERY. Dr. Taylor records (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 1864, p. 253) the following interesting case, which occurred in Australia:—A woman died, unde- livered, during confinement with her seventh child. The labour set in •with shivering, and then one prolonged pain occurred; when this sub- sided the woman became very weak and delirious, and died in half an hour. The body was exhumed a week after death, and the dead and decomposed body of a fully developed child was then found lying between the woman's thighs. The abdomen was much distended with gas. The uterus was completely inverted, and extruded, lying between the thighs, above the child. A rupture about 6 inches long existed in its substance. The child was believed to have been expelled by the pressure of gas developed during decomposition. INF^VNTIOIDE. A full account is given in the 'Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev.' (66, April, 1864, p. 324) of certain modern German views on "respi- ration before birth," which have a bearing upon legal medicine. The chief original sources of these views ai-e a paper by Krahmer, in the 'Deut. Klin.' (1852, p. 289), a volume by Schwartz, published in 1858, and entitled ' Die vorzeitigen Atliembewegungen,' and a paper by Boiir in 'Henke's Zeitschrift fiir die Staatsarzneikunde' (1863, Heft, i, p. i). This last paper deals especially with the medico-legal aspects of the question. The evidence in favour of these new views is derived, m