465 INSANITY. DISEASE. M. Tardieu publishes in the 'Ann. d'Hyg.' (20, 21) a " medico-legal study on diseases accidentally and involuntarily produced by impru- dence, negligence, or contagion, including the medico-legal history of syphilis." These papers appear to contain very valuable facts and ob- servations, but are incapable of condensation. r!rsA>'iTr. The editors of the 'Journal of Mental Science' publish, under the title of 'Insanity and Crime' (Churchill, 1864), a pamphlet on the subject of Towuley's case. After giving a resume of the case, and quoting the evidence of Dr. Winslow, on which the plea of insanity essentially depended, they discuss the question whether it is possible to refer the prisoner's state of mind to any of the recognised forms of partial insanity, intellectual, moral, or impulsive. By successively ex- cluding each of these forms, they decide that Townley was not insane. Dr. L. V. Marce (' Ann. d'Hyg.,' 21, p. 379) discusses the value of the writings of the insane, in their bearings upon diagnosis and upon legal medicine. He remarks that they are of much more importance, when done by educated persons, than when they are the work of the illiterate. Shades of style, faults of orthography, badly formed letters, ai'o valueless as evidence in the case of those who scarcely know how to write, and cannot freely express their thoughts on paper. The most striking and curious results are obtained in cases of general paralysis by the study of writings. After the death of the patient the diagnosis as to his mental state may depend altogether on such evidence. In the early stages of general paralysis the state of mental exaltation often leads the patient to write letters in which his ideas of grandeur or wealth are plainly expressed. Later in the case the writings, lilte the speech, become incoherent; words or sentences are left unfinished; the signature, date or addi-ess, is forgotten. In other cases the same line is repeated indefinitely, or the same letter is written over and over again to several different persons. In the early stages of this affection the handwriting is not itself altered, but it becomes changed after a time. Sometimes it is as large as that of a schoolboy who is beginning to learn, each letter being formed with scrupulous slowness. As the dementia and loss of muscular power become more marked the handwriting undergoes further change, and the trembling of the muscles is indicated by irregularities in the form of the long letters. At last the movements lose all precision, and the writings become un- intelligible. M. Marcd gives some instances in which written docu- ments were used as evidence in medico-legal cases, chiefly with refer- ence to testamentary capacity. The paper contains two plates which illustrate the text. 80