252 KEPOUT ON SURGERY, is this core, that Nelaton classes ifc among false membranes, similar to those which form on tlie Hiirface of serous membranes. There is noine show of truth iu this notion of Ndlaton's, but it is only part of the truth, and not the main part either. The mode of extension of an- tlirax much resembles that of phlegmonous erysipelas—sub-fascial exudation goes on, cutting off the vascular supply to fascia, and, at the same time, exudation goes on superficial to the fascia, cutting off the vascular supply to the skin. This double exudation produces two sets of physical signs ; a broad elevation, equal in extent to that of the deep exudation, with livid or dusky red hue of skin, and hard cedema, ex- tending somewhat beyond that limit, points to deep subfascial inflam- mation. The brighter red of the skin round these openings is another sign of their being akin to simple follicular abscesses ; for though not so bright as in healthy phlegmon, the colour is less dull than it is in the outlying parts of the tumour. This superficial inflammation is of less extent than the deep, for the simple reason that its products get vent more quickly. The skin only has to be perforated, whereas in the other case, deep fascia and skin must both give way, and the fascia only gives way by becoming a dead slough, and by being cast off by a process of ulceration along its edges. This is a slow process, dui'ing which exudation advances, and the diseased action extends its limits." " Dublin surgeons, as a rule, have been in the habit of treating anthrax by the crucial incision of Abernethy. Some advise that the incision should reach from sound skin to sound skin. Even Mr. Led\vich, following the stern surgery of Tagart, and undeterred by the fatal cases he himself has quoted, gave in his adhesion to this practice. I have long been satisfied that this length of wound was a needless increase of risk and suffering to the patient, and that the mere extent of a crucial incision was of little consequence in comparison with its depth. If not deep enough to allow free vent to the dead core and matter, an incision is worse than useless—it is positively mischievous, and causes the disease to spread. To be deep enough it must penetrate the core, and tap the inflammatory exudation and purulent depot which lie beneath it, and which would not otherwise find a vent imtil the core had separated. When making the crucial incision it is easy to know if we have gone deep enough for our purpose. Should there be still much vitality in the integument, which we have cross-cut, the wound will gape widely, and the point of each angular flap will curl up considerabl3^ Even in advanced cases, where the skin is much undermined and thinner, and where it has not sufficient elasticity to curl up or retract, we shall be able to know if we have gone deep enough by lifting up the angles of the flaps in a forceps and feeling if they are well loosened from the parts underneath. If they do not yield at once, and freely, Ave must cut deeper, until we reach the subjacent muscle. The crucial hicision then, if adopted, must be deep to be of use in checking the spread of the disease and facilitating the repair of the affected part." As an example of the ti-eatment by pressure, we shall select the last of the four very interesting cases related by Mr. Collis. "A man of blanched aspect, prematurely old-looking, and with all the marks of poverty about him, had two anthraces—one on the point of the right