391 AFFECTIONS OF THE OS AND CERVIX UTEEI. be onlj' passed with difficulty into the left half of the vagina, but it was considered unsafe to enlarge the opening. This case is said to be the first living case hitherto recorded. ArFECTIONS or THE OS AND CEEVIX UTERI. Dr. H. A. Martyn, " Hypertrophy of the Os and Cervix Uteri, forming an External Tumour; removal by Excision" (-'Amer. Jour. Med. Sci.,' I, 1864). Dr. Jackson Warren, "^Hypertrophic Elongation of the Cervix Uteri of Twenty-six Years' standing, with protrusion beyond the External Organs; Ulceration, Haemorrhage, Operation, Recovery" ('Amer. Jour. Med. Sci.,' Jan., 1864). Dr. Henieke, " Case of Tetanus following an Operation for Cancer of the Cervix Uteri" ('Griefswalder Med. Beitrage,' 3, 2). Dr. Keiller, " Cauliflower Excrescence of the Cervix Uteri removed by the Ecraseur" (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' April, 1864). 1. —In Dr. Martyn's case the following were the measurements of the tumour, which pi-otruded from the vulva :—From the anterior commissure of the labia to the extremity of the tumour, in. ; from the posterior commissure to the same point, ^ in. The transverse diameter measured 3^ in., the vertical 3-i-. A catheter introduced into the os could be passed up 3 in. without any obstruction. At that point the canal nari'owed, but hy manipulation the instrument passed in. further, till its point touched the fundus. Amputation by the knife was performed at a point 2^ in. from the end of the tumour posteriorly, and 2^ in. from the end anteriorly. The haemorrhage was slight, and easily checked by the per- chloride of iron, and the patient recovered quickly. 2. —In Dr. Warren's case, the patient was anaemic and feeble, from re- peated haemorrhages arising from ulceration of the tumour. This was 3"—4" long, and 4" in circumference. The sound passed 5" through the OS. The point of a catheter in the bladder could be felt half way down the tumour. The recto-uterine cul-de-sac was dragged down 2" external to the cavity of the pelvis. The body of the uterus could be felt normal in size and position. With the catheter in the bladder, section of the tumour was carefully made in front of the peritoneal cul-de-sac, the bladder being dissected from the body of the tumour. The haemorrhage was not great, and the patient recovered well. 3. —Dr. Henieke's case was a delicate woman, ast. 32, who had previously borne two children. Villous cancer of the cervix was diagnosed, and the portio vaginalis was removed by galvano-caustic. Six days after, severe haemorrhage occurred, and recurred again and again in spite of the employment of perchloride of iron and cold-water injections, so that she at length became greatly exhausted. From this, however, she rallied, and was steadily improving, when she was attacked with symptoms of trismus. Chloroform and atropine gave partial but only temporary relief. Four days later the muscles of the neclc and spine became involved, and con- tinuous tetanic spasm gradually attacked the muscles of the trunk and extremities. Chloroform and opium now failed to give relief and she died on the eleventh day. Dr. Henieke attributes the tetanus to the lono--