84 EEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tion of tlie uervea were—contraction of the blood-vessels, decrease of temperature lasting for a longer or shorter time, and occasionally venous hyperemia, but never any symptoms of inflammation. It seemed strange that Samuel had not at all experimented on the sympa- thetic nerve, although Claude Bernard had more than ten years ago shown it to possess a peculiar influence upon the blood-vessels. Weber has also experimented on this question, and confirmed, amongst others, the results arrived at by Bonders and Snellen, who had found that after the section of the sympathetic and consequent dilatation of blood- vessels, the inflammation excited in the ears of rabbits was more in- tense, and had a much more rapid course. He observed that if rabbits' ears were injured, or setons drawn through them, the wounds healed much more quickly after the section of the sympathetic fibres than if the nerves were still acting. Long continued excitation of the nerves had no influence on the inflammatory action. He also remarked that after the section of the cervical sympathetic the dilated vessels might be caused to contract again by cold or electricity, or to be further ex- panded by heat. This can only be explained by assuming either an in- dependent irritability of the muscular fibres of the blood-vessels, or the existence of an independent ganglionic system. The assertion of Schift' that there was a special set of nerves having the function of expanding the blood-vessels is contradicted by Weber. It would therefore appear that the influence of nerves upon inflammation is nothing else but the influence exercised by them upon the blood-vessels, and that inflamma- tion cannot directly be caused either by paralysis or irritation of nerves. Indirectly, however, these latter have a considerable influence upon the nutrition of the parts, and the course of inflammation in the tissues, as upon them depends the amount of blood contained in the vessel, since by irritation of the vaso motor nerves anaemia and defective nutrition, and by paralysis of the same, hyperismia, a more rapid metamorphosis- of matter, greater inflammatory action, and a more rapid course of the inflammation are caused. TuENEE, W., M.B.— On tlie textual changes loliich occur in Inflam- mation of serous memlranes. Edin. Med. Joum., April, 1864. Turner says, " To carry out successfully an inquiry into the nature of the inflammatory process in a serous membrane, the attention of the pathologist should not be confined to the examination of the Ipnph coating its free surface, or to the mingled liquid and solid products lying in the serous cavity, but the membrane itself should be carefully inspected, not only at its free surface, but for some distance into its sub- stance. This may be efiiciently done by making sections through its entire thickness, and carrying the knife (Valentine's) even into the subserous connective tissue. If a portion of the subjacent healthy texture is thus included along Avith the diseased in the section, the observer is enabled to make in the same preparation and from the same locality a comparison of the healthy tissue with that in wliich the characteristic inflammatory changes have taken place." After citing Keumau's, Cohnhcim's, and Eindfleisch's observations; Turner expresses his oi)inion that the part which the epithelium plays in the production