11 CIUCULiVTION. lead colic—^ve by the sphygmograph characteristic traces which aid materially in their diagnosis. But it should always be remembered that the form and otlier qualities of the pulse—which can be really estimated only by an instrument of this kind—exhibit simply the influence of cer- tain physical conditions which may bo common to many morbid states, and are not themselves pathognomonic of diseases. (' The Medical Phy- siology of the Circulation, based upon the Physical Study of the Move- ments of the Heart and of the Pulse.' Paris, 1863.) Dr. Koschlakoff has pursued this subject further. On testing the sphygmograph used by Marey by means of a manometer, the lever was found to exhibit certain movements due to acquired velocity, but these do not materially affect its results. In the artificial system of tubes a pump moved by a weight, which could be rapidly graduated to any amount, was substituted for pressure by the hand, and valves preciselj'- corresponding inform to those of the aorta were introduced. Respecting the cause of dierotism of the pulse, he is somewhat at variance with Marey. Agreeing with him that it requires a rapid systole {i. e. a considerable force in proportion to the amount of blood propelled), he denies that it is dependent on tlie arterial tension. It varies with the capillary resistance and with the force of the heart. Increase of the resistance (the heart- force remaining the same) destroys dierotism ; even tying the sphygmo- graph firmly on the limb may have this efFecfc. In experiments on the dead body the oedema produced by the artificial circulation sufficed to render the pulse non-dicrotic ; incisions restored that character. On the other hand, increase in the heart's force (the resistance and amount of fluid being the jame) makes the pulse dicrotic. In heart disease the double stroke is marked when the hindrance to the circulation is not well compensated. Koschlakoff denies that lesions of the heart afford special forms of pulse-line. Even in advanced disease this is often not different from that of health. This, however, is not necessarily opposed to Marey's statement, who affirms rather that, when heart disease is otherwise indi- cated, the pulse-line may give evidence of its nature. (' Yirchow's Arch.,' V. 29, 1864.) Dr. Landois also ('Reichert's Archiv,' i, 1864, p. 77) affirms that dierotism—or rather polycrotism—is the normal form of the pulse-curve, adducing in proof the fact that the dierotism is more marked, and ensues at shorter intervals, in proportion to the nearness of the artery to the heart, i. c. to the valves of the aorta, to the reflection of the blood from which the phenomenon is due. He reproduced the same effect by the use of clastic tubes, through which a stream of water circulated, cut off at intervals by a rnetal compress. Also by the use of the less elastic mtcstine of the rabbit the successive waves in opposite directions were rendered visible to the eye, as they were also by attaching to the elastic tube a portion of glass pipe into which a loose thread was introduced. Further, the upward limb of the curve given by the sphygmograph pre- sents successive elevations when the interval between the opening and closing of the valve is of a certain duration (half a second, e.(/.), an effect due to the elasticity of the tubes. In the ordinary action of'the heart the closure of the aortic valves ensues too rapidly upon their openin"-'to give this form, but in dilatation and hypertrophy of the left ventricle as