REPORT ON MIDWIFKRY, ETC. 64 women, 58 had cither borne children or miscarried. Amon<. the n powerful excUmr/ ctiuses are intense mental emotion, over-fatigue ex oXn!7" «°'t.on especially if occurring at the menstrual Jeri^d, external injuries to the abdomen. The „lom,, though silnilur in cases, yet differ so much m degree, according to the amount of bl effused and the rapidity of the effusion, that it will be convenient to gard them under three modes of invasion. In the forsi and most fu orm the patient is suddenly seized with acute hypogastric pain, follow by all the symptoms of perforation of the bowel, rapid collapse. : death in the course of a few hours. In the second group of cases effusion IS large but more gradual; and if death follow at all, it is a later period. The attack commences suddenly, as in the first groui. 1 the symptoms are less severe, and the pain, at first so violent, abates,' t IS succeeded by much weight and bearing down. Great prostrati. ansemia and either partial or complete retention of urine, with consti- tion, soon succeed, with the rapid development of a tumour beiiind t uterus or in the hypogastrium, or in both these situations, and thei extending into the umbilical, iliac, and lumbar regions; spreading gei rally to one side unequally ; smooth, firm, and elastic to the touch, a fixed in the pelvis, with limits ill defined from, the presence of meteoi mus. The cervix uteri cannot at first be felt by the finger in the vac'it which latter is very sensitive, and almost obliterated by a large doug: or semi-fluctuating tumour. In the great majority of cases tlie cervix. displaced forwards and against the symphysis pubis, but the body of t uterus cannot generally be followed. In exceptional cases, the tumour: felt projecting laterally or even in front of the vagina and uterus, whio is then pushed to the side or backwards. On examination per rectum, ti same tumour is found pressing the anterior wall against the posterior,'at sometimes completely obstructing the canal. With one finger in' tl rectum, and the thumb of the same hand in the vagina, the'thickne and density of the intervening portion of the tumour may often 1: determined, and whether there be fluctuation or not. Eecamier and Tf strongly insist on the utihty of this mode of examination, especially in tl diagnosis of medium-sized tumours, which are not large enough to rk above the brim of the pelvis, and may be small enough to escape identil cation by the finger in the rectum or vagina. In obscure cases, and there be no po.ssibility of the tumour being a retroverted gravid uteru: an exploring needle may be employed. A third class of cases—an probably by fiir the most common of all forms of hajmatocele—is cha racterised by symptoms essentially the same as in the last, but ii a much milder and more chronic form. The pain is slight, the feve moderate, tlie effusion is seldom large enough to be felt above th pubis, but is detected on vaginal examination in the neighbourlioo( of the uterus, and most often in the cul-de-sac of Douglas. A fev days, or at most a few weeks, suflice for recovery, the tumour disappearing almost as quickly as it formed. These are the cases most difficult o diagnosis, and are very liable to be mistaken for pelvic abscess or ovariar tumours. For a correct diagnosis, an accurate knowledge of the history o the case, and especially of the exact mode in which the attack commenced, is essential. The resemblance to other diseases is sometimes so close that V