•53 GliNJiRAIi SYSTEM. tlefcerminiug cause of the other. Be this as it may Levick feels very con- fiileut that the two poisons are often co-operating in the same individual, just as we may have cases of miasmatic fever associated witii pneumonia, with dysentery, and with other diseases. After having been accustomed for many years to treat the ordinary form of typhoid lever, his attention was arrested in the early part of last year by the occurrence of a series of cases which, while presenting the ordinary phenomena of typhoid fever, had superadded to these many of the symptoms of well-marked miasmatic remittent fever. These cases were cliaracterised by the suddenness of the attack, by the intense pain in the head and back of the neck, by the regular periodical remission and exacerbation of the fever, and by its amenability to quina. That these were cases of typhoid fever was shown by the fact that in every instance, even in the mildest, was found the characteristic eruption. That there was disease of Peyer's glands was inferable from the fact that diarrhoea was present in every case, or was readily produced by small doses of cathartic medicine. In some of these cases the attack was gradual, a sort of imperfectly developed stage existing for a week or longer ; the patient able to move about but with a little diarrhoea; pretty well in the morning, but with severe headache and some fever every evening, with restless uncomfortable nights. In other instances the attack began suddenl^^ with a chilliness and intense splitting pain in the head unlike the headache of typhoid fever, which is dull and lieavy. A slight cough with the usual bronchitic rales was noticed in nearly all the cases referred to. The paroxysmal character was strongly developed in all, a marked exacerbation occurring in the evening, the fever passing off towards morning, and the apyrexia ushered in with as profuse sweating as is witnessed in the most decided eases of malarious fever. This exacerbation and remission bear no resemblance to the partial subsidence which occurs in ordinary typhoid fever. Severe headache, described as splitting, battering, was one of the most constant and dis- tressing symptoms, though generally associated with it were intense pains in the back of the neck, and the muscles between the shoulders, and in some instances universal achings. The tongiie was generally yellowish- white, and never became dry and brown. The pulse was rarely above go, was soft, and not alarmingly feeble. There was no great tympanitis. The mental condition of these patients was unlike that of ordinary typhoid fever, they had no dulness or hebetude, and no well-marked delirium. The administration of quina seemed to arrest the malarious element of the fever, but to leave the enteric-fever element unaffected, so that the case then proceeded in the usual way of typhoid. Later in 1862 Levick had under his charge 27 eases of fever of a much severer kind, some presenting the symptoms of pernicious congestive remittent, and some strongly-marked typhous symptoms. Towards the close of his paper Levick remarks "there can be no doubt that-there exists at the present time in Pennsyl- vania and its vicinity a strongly developed miasmatic inlluence. It show.s itself not merely in its familiar garb of inter- and re-mittent fevers, but attaches itself to almost every other disease, if not lending its full livejy, at least casting its mantle upon them.