EEPOUT ON SUHGEEY. 338 " In the common forms of gonorrlicea, when local inflammation and general fever are not Bevere, and where the discharge and ardor urina) are the only sources of discomfort, little internal medicine need he given—a purgative pill or so if necessary, and a few drops of liquor kali in gum-water or camphor mixture, with a pill of liyoscyamus, cam- phor, and morphia at night, will he enough. Here, however, the judgment of the surgeon will be called into play in each case to apjwr- tiou the strength and frequency of the injection. The general rule has been given above; in carrying it out, the amount of discharge—its con- dition, purulent or half mucous—the appearance of the orifice of the urethra—and the amount of ardor urinte will guide us. If the discharge is still abundant, puriform, and accompanied by redness of the lips of the urethra, and by considerable scalding, we must use weak solutions (eight to twelve grains to the eight ounces of water), every second, third, or fourth hour; but if, on the other hand, as will occur in old stagers, the discharge is half mucous, the lips blue and the scalding not complained of much, we may advance in strength to a drachm, and diminish in frequency to three or four times a day. If a syringeful is injected, we may spare our patient much of the unpleasant scalding by injecting before micturition. This treatment will cure an ordinary gonorrhoea in from four days to a week—at least, it will in that time stop all discharge; but, as in the acute types, the injections must be continued for several days lest a relapse occur, as is sure to he the case after excitement or errors in diet, and sometimes without such provocation. " Grleet, the opprobrium of this branch of* surgery, is not unfre- quently kept up by over-anxiety to cure it. The introduction of a bougie smeared with lard and dusted over with powdered alum, or a single touch of nitrate of silver by means of a j)orte caustique, not repeated more than twice, and at an interval of a week, will sometimes succeed, provided nothing else is done in the interval, and the organ get sufficient rest. I have occasionally cured a gleet by first adminis- tering muriated tincture of iron and tincture of opium, in doses of fifteen drops of the former to five of the latter, three times a day, and thus rendering the discharge more genuinely puriform. When this efi'ect follows, a spontaneous cure will sometimes arise; and if not, the injections of alum will often now succeed, though they previously failed." Prof Bernatzik on cubebs, chemically and physiologically (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, i, 9). D. Hicguet on the treatment, &c. (Paris, A. Delahaye). J. Popham, case of gonorrhceal rheumatism, successfidly treated with the tincture of larch (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxvi, p. 478). C. Hardy, memoir on gonorrhoeal abscesses (Paris, A. Delahaye). J. G-. Eich on permanganate of potash (' Canada Lancet;' 'Edinb. Med. Journ.,' X, 259). A. Ott, case of acute prostatitis after injections (' Priui Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 300). SXPUILIS. A. Guerin, clinical lectures on the diseases of the external genitals