441 OUGANIC SUBSTANCES. was irregular and intermittent, and became imperceptible before her death. From these facts MM. Tardieu and Roussin draw the following conclusions:—(i) "Madame Pauw died from tlie effects of poison, (2) This poison was one of those poisons which, derived from the vege- table kingdom, leave no characteristic traces in the organs, and cannot be isolated by chemical analysis, but reveal their presence by their effects, and are discovered by the fatal action whicli they exert on living animals (4) The symptoms observed in Madame Pauw during life and those noticed in the experiments on animals detailed above have a great resemblance to the effects of digitaline; and though we cannot affirm it positively, a strong presumption leads us to believe that it was from poisoning by digitaline that she died." Of the other medical witnesses, M. Hebert was the one whose evidence was most favorable to the accused (' Union Med.,' 22, p. 325). He stated that he had himself experimented on frogs with solu- tions of digitaline, having injected subcutaneously 36—50 drops of a liquid containing a centigramme of the poison in 100 grammes of water. The animab were unaffected by it (the difference in quantity was pro- bably the reason why his results were so different from those of Vul- pian, alluded to below). He also denied that in poisoning by digita- line the ventricle is found contracted. M. CI. Bernard stated that nothing in the history of the experiment No. i (with the dog) contra- dicted the supposition of poisoning by digitaline. He said that at the moment of death the heart is dilated in cases of poisoning by this agent among the higher animals. In a very few minutes, however, cadave- ric rigidity of that organ comes on, and it passes into a state of persis- tent contraction. M.Vulpian, after describing his experiments made in the year 1855, said that " in the great majority of cases the ventricle is pale and contracted (when the heart has ceased to beat) and the auricles are dilated. The peculiarity of this arrest of the heart's action is that it takes place while the animal still preserves the power of movement." The substances which produce similar effects are, according to M. Vulpian, the poison of toads and of the aquatic salamander, the upas antiar, the alcoholic extract of the Tdtu/liinia venenifera, and the aqueous and alcoholic extracts of the Hellehortis viridis. No other agents, introduced beneath the skin at a distance from the heart, have been found to arrest the heart's action without evident disturbance of the other functions. Dr. Faure publishes (' Arch, gen.,' 1864, Oct., p. 413) some remarks on the effects of digitaline when administeredin large doses. He finds that this poison acts much less powerfully upon dogs than upon the human subject. In the dog 5 centigrammes produce no effect; even with 10 or 15 centigrammes very severe symptoms do not necessarily result. This appears to render it unadvisable to use dogs as the subjects of physiological tests for digitaline. In these experiments M. Faure pre- vented the cxpxilsion of the poison, not by ligature of the oesophagus, which is itself a fatal operation, but by tying a cord round the mouth. Vomiting then takes place; but the gastric contents, though they regur- gitate into the throat, return into the stomach, and the full effect of