479 DEAF-MUTISM. ties imposed by the Merchant Seamen's Act should be strictly en- forced. DEAF-MUTISM. Dr.Kiichler ('Henke's Zeitschrft.,' 1864, i, p. 36) gives some interesting statistical details as to the prevalence of deaf-mutism and of bliadaess (congenital and acquired) in the kingdom of Bavaria. The proportion of deaf-mutes is 616 to every million of population, while in the same number of persons there are 599 who are blind. These numbers have been decreasing of late years, especially so far as loss of sight is con- cerned. This is referred in great measure to the increase of confidence in medical skill. The slight diminution in the numbers of those who are deaf and dumb must arise from the improvement in the cultivation of the people and the increase in the means of communication. Deaf- mutism is found chiefly in the country districts, and males preponderate decidedly over females among those so afflicted. The number of deaf- mutes is markedly greater among Jews than among those who profess other religions. In 1840 the proportion was, among Jews, 1299 in the million, while among Catholics it was only 601, and in Protestants 737 in the million. In 1858 the difference was less striking. There were then 852 deaf-mutes among a million Jews, while the numbers for Catholics and Protestants were 560, 626, respectively. These facts go far to confirm the views of those who see in the intermarriages of rela- tions a cause for this affection. The number of persons who have lost their sight is, however, also decidedly greater among the Jews. In four filths of the deaf-mutes the affection dates from birth ; this is the case only in one tenth of those who are blind. The question as to the frequency with which deaf-mutism is hereditary can probably be answered only approximatively from these data, owing to the difficulty of obtaining full and accurate information; but the following are the con- clusions given in this paper:—In the case of 7-9 per cent, of deaf and dumb children, the seuse of hearing was imperfect in one or both parents; and in 2'i per cent, bad health, or some bodily defect, existed in either the father or the mother. Deaf-mutism was present in some blood-relation in the case of 9*5 per cent, of such children. The parents were more or less closely related before marriage in 3-3 per cent, of the cases. The repetition of this defect in children of the same parents is less frequent than might be expected. In 1000 fami- lies, in which there is a deaf-mute child, there are 79 in which there are 2 such children, 20 in which there are 3, and 3 families in which there are 4 children affected with deaf-mutism. It may be interesting to compare these Bavarian statistics with those obtained from the census of Ireland for 1851 and 1861 ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' 37, p. 380). In that country the number of congenital mutes in one million of the population was, in 1851, 636, while in 1861 it ■was 730. The increase appears to be due to emigration, for there is, of course, a tendency for the healthy to go, leaving the infirm behind them. In Ireland, as in Bavaria, there are more male than female deaf-