REPORT ON SURGERY. 298 foramen mnguuiii contracted by the deposition of minute nodules of bono. I have also, but more rarely, found a carious and worm-eaten appearance about the bones, which may, in such cases, be stricken with necrosis" Death may result in such diseases from various complicatious ; thus from erysipelas to which patients with fistulous openings in the integuments are very liable; from hicmorrhagc when the disease is in the neighbour- hood of a large vessel; from inflammation of the diploic veins or of the large venous sinuses; from inflammation of the cerebral membranes, abscess in the cerebral substance, or softening of the brain ; and finally from hernia cerebri. " And now as to the treatment of caries and necrosis of the bones of the skull: that, fortunately, dilFers now-a-days widely from the treatment re- sorted to formerly. In by-gone years the practice was to pursue and destroy the diseased bones wherever they existed : the more extensive the disease, the more praiseworthy the efforts of the surgeon. And in one ease you may read of the whole parietal having been thus removed ; in another, of the whole of the frontal, including its orbitar arches, having been got away by means of divers and sundry instruments. But such cases dwindle into nothing when compared with the case of Mchee de la Touche, wherein he glories in that he had been able to cure an extensive caries of the skull in the course of fifteen months, during which time he had applied no less than 52 crowns of trephine, 27 of which laid bare the dura mater. But, as I said, such treatment is fortunately by-gone; and with us the rule is that we are in caries of the bones of the skull not to interfere, in the way of an operation, unless the disease happens to be, which is rarely the ease, limited to a very small area. And in necrosi.^, the rule is, save in exceptional cases, to wait patiently until the diseased bone is thoroughly loose. True it is that for this we ma)-^ have to wait for months, and even years, but nevertheless surgical interference is not to be attempted, even with full knowledge of all the manifold risks which I have described, and which we know that patients must run in such pro- tracted cases. By waiting patiently until the bone is loose, large portions may either come away, or be removed, without any risk. In the museum of St. George's Hospital, there are two pieces of necrosed bone, making up nearly the whole of the perpendicular portion of the frontal, which I removed, some time back, from an elderly woman, who shortly afterwards left the hospital quite well. And in one of the patients now in the hospital, large portions of the frontal bone have, at various periods, come away. This has been going on for 29 years, but the disease has now stopped, and an examination of the parts shows a thin, transparent, newly- formed skin, through which the irregular, nodulated, and eburnated sur- face of the healed bone, with more or less marked excavations and shelving margins, mav easily be felt. " In exceptional cases, as I said, the application of a crown or two of the trephine may become necessary—that is, when there is not sufficient space for the matter to make its way outwards, and which may thus become pent up between the bone and the dura mater. And occasionally, too you may have to cut away pieces of overhanging bone, in order to re- move a necrosed portion which is otherwise quite loose,