TREPHINING THE PETROUS BONE. 317 Perforation was performed two days later, because the strength was rapidly fiiiling, and the torpor increasing. The instrument was applied at the most painful and prominent part of the mastoid process, just be- yond the margin of the external meatus, and tiien introduced in the direction of the petrous bone. At a depth of six lines it entered an irregular cavity, lined with a soft velvety membrane, from which escaped thick cheesy flakes of pus and some necrotic fragments. By means of a strong blunt-pointed director, the cavity was dilated to the depth of 8 or 9 lines; the pus and debris were then well cleared out by repeated tepid injections. Immediate relief and sleep ; greater sensibility of the affected side of the face and less insufficiency of the orbicularis, with less lachrymation so soon as the next day. The patient rapidly improved during the following two weeks, though no further change in the facial and auditory nerves occurred. On the twelfth day destruction of the membrana tympani, caries of the floor of the tympanum and of the upper wall of the meatus were found. In August the patient could hear a watch at an inch distance. In the beginning of September some larger pieces of dead bone were removed ; the suppuration had almost ceased, the patient worked at his business, and was quite strong and free from pain. So far as cau be determined from the history and the course, the affection began as an inflammation of the middle ear with early implica- tion of the bone; perhaps, rare as this may be, as a primary disease of the bone. The patient repeatedly asserted that the local and ex- centrical ])aius, and the impairment of hearing had existed for a long time before the occurrence of otorrhoea; the facial and auditory nerv es became paralysed as the disease of the petrous bone progi-essed. Both paralyses are now somewhat less complete; that of the auditory is less so than that of the facial. It must remain doubtful in what mamier the 5th nerve (pain in some branches at the commencement, slight ansesthesia of the face) was implicated; tiie author is inclined, both from this symptom and from the mental condition of the patient before the operation, to the view that the intracranial organs were to some degree aftected. J. Erhard, vade mecum for clinical otiatry (Lissa, Giinther). H. Schwartze, practical contributions to aural surgery (Wiirzb., Stahel. ' Archiv fiir Ohi-euheilkuudc,' a journal edited by v. Troltsch, A. Politzcr, and H. Schwartze (Wiirzb., Stahel). E. Weber, brief com- munications on aural surgery, &c. (Berl., 1864). E. Virchow on malformations (' Axch.. fiir path. Anat.,' vol. xxx, p. 221). Z. Op])enheimer on the diagnosis of ear-diseases (1. c, p. 240). Drs. Ockel, Glama, and Wredeu, report of the cases at the Maximilian- heilanstalt for the years 1858-61 ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 129, 257; vi, 257, .321). J. Boke, cases ('Wien. Med. Ilalle,' 1864, pp. 379' .390- I^Ji"- Erhard on examination of the ear with reference to soldiers and medico-legal questions ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1863, PP- 730, 7'^i)- J- 33. Weber, cases ('Berl. Khu. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 164). S. Duplay, an examination of recent publications on the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the ear ('Arch. Gren.,' 1863, ii, 327. 57'5). A. Lucae, anatomico-physiological contributions ('Arch.'