124 iikpout on practical medicine. mens are used, we may be led into error by tlieir being accidentally in- troduced, (lie says, they may occur as "leichen syniptorne," post- mortem symptoms.) Wedl is inclined to believe tliat the colloid masses in individual oases are immediately separated from the blood and are to be regarded as decomposition-products. (3) Calcifications of the small vessels, especially of the capillaries, occur rarely in so ex- tensive a manner that whole vascular networks appear encrusted with calcareous salts. These are deposited in the capillary wall as well as in the wall of small arteries and veins, sometimes as small glistening granules, sometimes in the form of masses which project more or less above the periphery of the vessel. Between both these conditions numerous transition stages occur. The fine granvdar form-of calcareous deposit is met with especially in the small arteries and cerebral vessels of drunkards. In these the deposit does not take place in the outer coat (as is often the case in the small veins), but in the middle ; in many places large calcareous granules seem to obstruct the canal of the vessel. When the lime is removed by muriatic acid nothing can be distin- guished of the nuclei of the organic muscular fibres of the vessel. Cal- cifications of the large arteries are always situated actually in the new- formed connective tissiieofthe lining membrane. (4) Connective-tissue growths.—Wedl describes in detail the anatomy of a case of difi"use cerebral cancer, as illustrating the great share which the cellular elements of the walls of the vessels take in the production of new for- mations. On examining the vessels, which were numerous and serpen- tine, it was found that nuclear growths were remarkably developed in the outer coat of the veins and in the adjoining tract of capillaries, while in the arteries and the arterial capillaries there was no such ap- pearance. The diameter of the capillaries was everywhere wider than in the normal state. On the outer walls of the veins were seated knobbed or club-shaped excrescences, some of them branched, which were filled with nuclei. They did not appear hollow, and did not communicate with the cavity of the vessels. The basis substance in which the nuclei lay imbedded appeared finely granular. The original capillary network was being destroyed by wasting pressure; the blood-channels were interrupted. "In the apparently healthy tissue surrounding the new growth numerous nuclear formations were discovered on the veins, demonstrating the part which the vessels took in the diffusion and in the growth of the tumour. Connec- tive-tissue deposits on the internal coat of the large arteries are distinguished essentially by the want of elastic fibres from the con- nective-tissue growths of the outer, in which, when hypertrophously developed, clastic fibres are very abundantly present. When the deposits on the internal coat are at all large two layers can be dis- tinguished in them, namely, an internal more hyaline, and a granular subjacent. The internal hyaline layer contains partly roundish, partly fusiform, connective-tissue-cells, which are connected together to some extent by their processes. Often aggregations of nuclei only can be made out, which appear grouped in long rows or in nests. The ex- ternal granular and darker layer contains larger globular cells, which lie rather near each other, and are also connected partially by processes.