892 REPORT ON MIDWIFEliy, ETC. continued cold injections used to control the hasmorrliage rather than to the operation itself, for at the time of the attack the wound was healing kindly. ^ 4-—Dr. Keiller remarks on a case of epithelial cancer of the cervix success- fully removed by Prof. Simpson, and states that a permanent cure can never be reckoned on in such cases. All experience showed the opposite was the fact; nevertheless, the great relief afforded to the patient, and the undoubted prolongation of life, fully justified the operation where the case was seen early. AMEKOnniKEA. Dr. H. E. Storer, "On the Surgical Treatment of Amenorrhcea" ('Amer. Jour, of Med. Science,' vol. i, 1864, p. 81). As a general rule, it will be found that amenorrhcea which has resisted the usual modes of treatment depends, in the absence of pregnancy, upon one or other of the followiugcauses : — (i) That the uterus is absentor (2) that it is imperfectly developed. (3) That it has undergone too complete involution after labour or abortion. (4) That the nisus uterinus of men- struation is in abeyance, even though the ovarian functions may be normal or complete. (5) That the cervical canal, or its inner orifice, is partially contracted—organically, or by tonic or clonic spasm. (6) That there is complete occlusion, congenital or acquired, of either the uterus, vagina, or external organs. (7) That there exists acute or chronic metritis, or a chronic retention within its cavity, e. y. foetal debris. (8) That there is lesion, usually inflammatory, of one or both ovaries. (9) That there is present either general toxaemia or some distant organic or functional dis- ease, giving rise to a drain upon the general system, whetiier ha;mor- rhagic, diaphoretic, leucorrheal, diabetic, or lacteal. Any of these varieties, but especially the latter, may be attended by vicarious menstruation. In cases where the uterus is present, but undeveloped, the author recommends the use of an intra-uterine galvanic stem-pessary, similar in form to that of Prof. Simpson's, the stem being made of copper and zinc. This should readily enter both the outer and inner openings of the cervix, but not touch the fundus. No undue irritation need be leared if this be attended to. The amount of action produced is shown by the fact that upon withdrawing the instrument from the uterine cavity, wliile the copper portion remains almost entirely free from deposit, that of zinc is encrusted with a thick layer of foreign matter, which, upon chemical analysis, is resolved into the metallic salt usually found in similar circum- stances. In the third, fourth, and fiftli classes above alluded to the same treatment is indicated, and will be found to answer well. The atrophy which sometimes results after ordinary parturition is remarkable. The cavity of the uterus, instead of its normal size, i\ in., measures only \\ in., or even less than an inch, and complete cessation of menstruation occurs. For dilatation of the cervix the author prefers tents of the shppery-elm bark to sea-tangle. In cases of retention of the catamenia, under the sixth head, the author recommends a free incision, not a small one, "in order that the uterus should be emptied as rapidly and thoroughly as possible, even to the extent of completely rinsing its cavity by gentle injections of warm water, and subsequent compression through