EEPORT ON SURGERY. 814 Ilutcliinson states " that iu a very considerable number of cases no probable hypothesis can be given as to the determining cause of the failure of sight, and that almost all these unexplained cases (symmetrical and well marked in all their stages) occur in men who have been accus- tomed to smoke." He therefore thinks that it is most desirable to insist upon ahslinence from iohncco, and that since he has adopted this rule, his results have been better than formerly. J. Hutchinson, cases of amaurosis in children (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 615). E. Lancereaux on degeneration of the optic nerves in disease of the hemispheres of the brain (' Ophth. Keview,' i, i 52). L. Danjoy, the dependence of saturnine amaurosis on albuminuria (1. c, p. 156). A. G-raefe, case of cat's-eye amaurosis (1. c, p. 160). Hemeralopia.—C. Kiittner ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 6^;). M. Netter on the use of the dark room (Paris, G. Bailliere). M. Desponts on cod-liver oil (Paris, A. Delahaye). EAR. Dr. Pagensteclier on trepliining the mastoid process and petrous lone ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' iv, 523).—The importance of suppurative inflam- mation of tbe external and middle ear with reference to disease of the adjacent periosteum and secondary changes of the bone is well known; so indeed is the connection between caries of the petrous bone and throm- bosis of the sinuses, purulent meningitis, or abscess in the brain. The ease is often truly astonishing, with which, especially in children, an apparently unimportant superficial suppuration of the external meatus, such as commonly occurs with eezematous eruptions of the face or witlx the exantheraatous fevers, induces serious cerebral symptoms. Yet after long continuance, indeed, as our first case will show, after almost forty years, can a circumscribed purulent destruction of the periosteum in the external meatus also excite disease iu tbe membranes of the brain and induce death. We not unfrequently meet amongst children both with acute cases of serious cerebral symptoms proceeding from otorrhoea, and with more gradual diseases of the bone, the former sometimes without, the latter generally after, destruction of the membrana tympani. Inter- mediate between these are the cases, in which after previous suppuration in the outer portion of the meatus, disease of the mastoid process, usuallj' without injury to the membrana tympani, but in company with violent cerebral symptoms, supervenes. The children have generally not suffered for any length of time from otorrhoea; they suddenly become very feverisli, vomit sometimes, wander, and often pass into a state of stupor so early as the second or third day; the ear becomes very painful, hot, red, and swollen, especially about the mastoid process; in slight cases suppuration takes place under the periosteum, in serious ones within the osseous cells. Should the course be favorable, the pus makes its way outwards ; if un- favorable, the morbid process spreads more deeply, and death ensues from thrombosis, abscess in the brain, or purulent meningitis. In the majority of cases, the disease is limited to the outer part of the meatus and to the mastoid process, and ends in recovery, even without the aid of fvn artificial exit for the pus; the tympanic membrane then generally