UNUNITED FUACTUUE. 281 and once on tlie tibia; that no constitutional disturbance worthy of notice has followed in any instance; and that the result has been uniformly successful. '•' 2nd. The difficulty of performance. He writes: ' to preserve the ends (of tlie bone) in exact position, while drilling oblique holes through them, must be attended with extreme difficulty.' Had Mr. "Winchester ever performed ' resection ' for ununited fracture, or even witnessed this operation, he could not have failed to observe the extreme difficulty of separating the broken ends, so firmly are they, in the vast majority of cases, adherent by dense fibrous tissue. The bones require no holding, and tlie operation of drilling required no more skill than is possessed by the most ordinary artisan." A. Gt. Eeicl reports ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' ix, 1014) a case of un- united fracture of the tibia treated by Mr. Spence. " It resulted from a severely comminuted fracture of the leg, produced by the direct stroke of the paddle-wheel of a steamer in motion. The mode of treat- ment first adopted, and which was afterwards persisted in for several months, consisted in placing the limb at perfect rest by means of starch bandages, and at the same time giving the patient nourishing diet, com- bined with small quantities of stimulants. This treatment, however, was only partially successful; and as the amount of mobility had re- mained unaltered for some time, a thick needle was passed between the fragments, the ligamentous union thoroughly destroyed, and the limb afterwards adjusted in plaster of Paris. On taking it down, at the end of six weeks, it was found to be perfectly firm. It is questionable whether this mode of treatment would be sufficient for the cure of flail- like false joints, but it is generally effectual in cases like the preceding, where only a certain degree of mobility remains, though quite sufficient to render the limb useless to the patient." C. D. Doig, notes on fractures (' Glasgow Med. Joum.,' xi, 336). M. Miiller on the use of a plaster mould embracing the posterior surface of the limb in compound fractures ('Arch, fur klin. Chir.,' vi, 159). J. Cas- pary on continued extension of ladly tmited fractures (1. c, v, 258). J. A. Lidell on gunshot fractures of the^;eZt;is, &c. ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 135). E. "W. Smith, case of fracture of the acetabulum ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. 35, p. 174). Treatment of fractures of the clavicle in New York ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, ii, 42). Dr. Ogle, laceration of the internal jugular vein by the fractured portion of clavicle ('Arch, of Med.' iv, 125). Prof. Bardeleben, cases of fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, plaster bandage (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, Eeport, p. 13). v. Thaden on fracture of the greater tuberosity of the humerus in dislocation of the arm ('Arch, fur klin. Chir.,' vi, 67). Dr. Drake on fracture of the radius by indirect force (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, ii, i). Mr. Chassaniol, separation of the epiphysis of the femur ('Gaz. des IIOp.,' 1864, p. 39). D. W. Cheever, case of fracture of the femur in an infant seven mouths old (' Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.,' vol. 70, p. 355). E. H. Hamilton on gunshot fractures of the femur ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, i, 13), Treatment of fractures of the femur in New York (1. c, 1864, ii, 42). J. Tyson, treatment of fractures of the femur by extension effected by means of weights