PIROfiOl-'l'-'s AMVUTATtON. 393 could of this tlieoretical objectiou. Nothing could be more satisl'aetoiy than the manner in which the cancellated structure of these bones has become blended together, making as perfect a uuion as ever takes place in a simple fracture or in a wound of the soft parts themselves. And this was the more remarkable considering the man's age (48 years) and his habits, which eventually produced his destruction." As to the value of the stumps, the author states that " all but one of the four cases operated on at the Pennsylvania Hospital were walking about freely on their stumps before they were discharged from the institution ; one of them, and that an adult, was discharged 70 days after the opera- tion. The exceptional case was Morris Letmmey who had a small sinus communicating with the bursa between the tibia and fibula, and which was speedily healed by the use of a single piece of sponge-tent after he left the hospital. The case at the military hospital did not walk on his stump as early as he might otherwise have done, in conseqrience of the necrosis of the fibula, which did not, however, prevent the union of the OS calcis with the tibia, which became firm in 28 days. " No such results as these have ever been obtained from the Syme operation—for not more than one half of the cases which haA e applied to Mr. Palmer for artificial limbs have been able to bear any pressure whatever on the end of the stump, and that a long time after they were entirely healed. The only case of a Syme amputation of which we have had the opportunity of seeing the result was unable to bear his weight on it a year after it was made. The least amount of shortening furnished by any of the cases of Pirogofi' here reported was one inch, and the greatest two inches ; these were both the adult cases, whereas the Syme always gives a shortening equal to the whole depth of the foot, or about from two and a half to three inches." J. A. lAdell on the major emendations for injuries in loth civil and military practice ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 47, p. .361).—By reasoning, cases, and statistics, the author endeavours to show that primary are decidedly preferable to secondary amputations. " Primary amputations are more advantageous than secondary ones, because, in the first place, they aflord a chance of recovery to a numerous class of persons suff'ering from gunshot wounds, or other injiu-ies, who would not survive the inflammatory stage, together with its intercurrent disorders, until such time as the secondary amputation could be performed; and because, in the second place, primary opera- tions are a great deal less fatal, per se, than secondary operations. Such being the facts, it foDows as a necessary consequence that the proper time to amputate, in all cases of wounds or injuries demanding that operation, is during the primary period, i. e. previous to the commence- ment of inflammation in the wounded parts, or within a period of 24 or 36 hours after the infliction of the injury." He believes that the opinion of the military surgeons of the United States is unanimous in favour of the primary operation, and that even in doubtful cases primary amputation should always be practised, true conservatism in surgery—a conservatism which makes the preservation of the patient's life paramount to the preservation of a limb—fully sanctioning the wisdom of this recommendation.