BLOOD, 3 changeof colour in the blood by means of oxygen, Cog, and other reagents, was duo to a chemical action, or to the altered form of the blood-cor- puscles, Schmidt first added 7 to lo volumes of water to the blood and then filtered it. By this means the corpuscles were entirely removed in a decolourised state from the blood of tne horse and dog, the hsematin re- maining in solution. In the blood of the ox this separation was not effected by filtering. The hismatin thus isolated is no longer altered in colour by 0, but it is darkened by Coo. Weak acids and alkalies also darken it, but neutral salts, alcohol, and ether, have no effect on the colour. Further, Schmidt found, by adding the decolourised corpuscles to the di- luted blood that the influence of 0 upon the colour was precisely in pro- portion to their quantity, and that the change appeared greater by reflected than by transmitted light. To observe the relations of the pigment when present in its normal amount, he concentrated the diluted and filtered blood again to its original quantity. The appearance of the fluid was like that of blood in which the globules have been rendered in- visible by alcohol or ether. O rendered it somewhat brighter, but the effect was exceedingly slight, and was not perceptible in thin layers of the fluid. The darkening effect of Cog was very marked. In this solution the blood- pigment exhibited its natural dark colour; in the blood it is rendered brighter by the presence of the solid elements. Thus it appears that the changes of colour wrought in the blood by O and Coj are partly chemical and pai-tly physical; that is, are due partly to an action on the hrematin, partly to an action on the cell-wall. Cog acts chiefly chemically, 0 chiefly physically. Acids and alkalies act chemically, neutral salts act physically, as also do ether and alcohol, the former by dissolving the corpuscles, the latter by causing them to swell and the pigment to escape. On the Crystallization of the Blood, Schmidt remarks that the re- sistance of the blood-corpuscles to the action of oxygen is much less than is usually supposed. By pouring blood into glass flasks with flat bottoms and narrow necks, so as to form very thin layers without incurring too rapid a desiccation, he found that in the course of 15 or 18 hours the globules of dog's blood were decolourised, and after 36 hours they had entirely disappeared. The same changes took place in horse and ox blood in i\ to 3 days. That this effect is due to oxidation is proved by the facb that it is brought about much more rapidly by ozone. Alter- nating CO2 with the O does not accelerate the changes, as Ilarless thought. In respect to the blood of the dog, the horse, and the ox, there is a strict parallelism between the solubility of the corpuscles by oxygen and the tendency to crystallization ; both processes take place most readily in the dog, least readily in the ox. In crystallization of the blood two steps arc necessary—first, _ the separation of the hsemato-globulin from the cells and its solution in the serum; and secondly, its precipitation thence, by a diminution of the solvent fluid. The latter may be effected either by evaporation or by the addition of anhydrous salts, especially the sul- phate of soda. Alcohol and ether produce both effects. The globules disappear entirely under their influence, but, after the addition of alcohol, coiiccutrated solutions of albumen, sugar, or neutral salts, render them vi-sible again as pale, colourless discs. This is not the case after the addition of ether. Alcohol caused crystallization in dog's blood only, not iu that