336 REPOIIT ON SUUGERY. hernia of 24 j^ears' ataudiiig was admitted into the Hotel Dieu under Prof. Eoux. The same morning slie had been attaclied with nausea and repeated vomiting. fcJhe sent for licr medical man in the afternoon. His attention was at once directed to the tumour, of Avhich a part was usually down. He considered it the cause of the symptoms, and en- deavoured to reduce it by the usual means, baths, prolonged taxis, without success. In the evening he again, but unsuccessfully, at- tempted reduction. The nausea and vomiting continued; there was no motion. He sent the patient to the hospital where I was on duty that day. I commenced the examination by feeling the walls of the abdomen; they were not hard or contracted, but depressible and pain- less. The rupture, placed at the inner and upper part of the thigh, measured, in length 3, across 2 inches; the skin over it was red, and somewhat hot; the attempts at reduction had rendered it sensitive. I touched and percussed it; I found everywhere complete dulness, equal and firm resistance. I attempted to replace it, but without much force ; I did not succeed. I satisfied myself afresh that the abdominal muscles were not contracted. The vomiting had ceased for some hours, but the sickness persisted. The woman, advanced in years, tolerably decrepit, was much depressed. She told me that, this very day, she had been much grieved ; and she still appeared so much affected, that I did not think it right to question her. This influence continued whilst she remained in the hospital. " Tranquillised by the absence of rigidity of the abdomen, by the dulness of the tumour, instructed by the previous attempts, I con- sidered it useless to try the taxis further; I thought there might be only omentum, that the local symptoms might have been caused by the pi-evious proceedings, and the general symptoms from the severe mental disturbance ; moreover I perceived nothing very threatening; I ordered a large poultice, and recommended that the patient should be carefully watched. Next day she was a little relieved : she had slept; she had a motion, and the sickness ceased. During the next few days, the redness disappeared under the use of emollients and rest; the part became painless; to the touch it felt as before. A part of the tumour had been long irreducible ; as it gave her no inconvenience, she neglected it, placing on it the truss which she constantly carried. The aid of a medical man had never been required, except this last time. In a week, everything had returned to its usual state; health was restored." The author of course admits that such inflammations of the omentum, of large hernia?, or of the sac, may become dangerous; the inflamma- tion may induce suppuration, gangrene, it may spread to the peritoneal cavity, &c. Such phenomena must, however, be distinguished from those caused by genuine strangulation. Max Langenlech, anew mode of operating for hernia ('Allg. AVien. Med. Zeit.,'" 186.3, P- 377. ^^•)-—^'^^^ incision, only just large enough to allow the introduction of the index finger, is made at the inner side of the neck of tlic tumour. The finger is then pressed to the constricting part, the ligament of Gimbernat in a femoral, the external or internal ring in an inguinal hernia, and at the same time worked round llie sac so as to separate it from tlie surrounding tissues. Then, with the nail