UEPOUT ON SUUOERY. 310 beiug then gradually swept arouiKl, tlio light fall.s successively upou all sides of the exposed aud expanded cavity. By the use of this inanipuhatiou applied to a patient in the position just described, I have frequently obtained a satisfactory view of the whole extent of the cavity of the rectum as high as its upper curve." The next point to which the author alludes is forcible dilulalion of the sphincter auL muscle. He considers it the proper remedy for fissure of the rectum; it need not confine the patient to his bed more tliau a single day, and its efl'ects are as prompt and sure as those of the knife. The immediate cause of the peculiar and insupportable pain of an irritable ulcer of the rectum is the constant and involuntary spasmodic contraction of the sphincter ani muscle, by which the sensitive sore ia continually squeezed and pinched. The pain thus produced varies both in degree and in duration. It may be slight and transient, or it may be almost insupportable in severity, and last eight or ten hours. The act of defecation itself is often accompanied by a slight degree only of soi'eness, aud there is generally an interval of ease after the defecation before the peculiar pain of the disease sets in, and this interval is longer if the stool be solid in consistence. As to the interval that elapses between the evacuation of the bowels and the occurrence of pain, the author says,—" To me it seems plain that the dilatation to which the orifice of the anus is subjected by the extrusion of faeces during the act of defecation is sufiicieut to prevent the fibres of the sphincter muscle from resuming their full tonic con- tractility for a short interval, and that the length of the interval depends entirely upon the size and hardness of the mass extruded, and the amount of stretching to which the orifice has been subjected. " If this view be correct as to the cause of the pain in this disease, it follows that any means by which the contractile power of the sphincter is interrupted or temporarily abolished will relieve it at once. Its division by the knife illustrates the fact. Now, it is well known that forcible stretching of muscular tissue will temporarily impair its con- tractility. The paralysis of the bladder which so often follows its over- distention in retention of urine, is an example of this. And thus it is explained why forcible dilatation or stretching of the anal orifice arrests at once the pain of an irritable ulcer of the rectum, aud is followed by its speedy cure." "Now, the operation of forcible dilatation, as I have been in the habit of performing it, by introducing the two thumbs into the anus, flexing them so as to include the breadth of the sphincter muscle, and then, taking a pm-chase with the outstretched hands from either buttock, drawing them forcibly asunder until arrested by the ischial tuberosities, elfects such a stretching of its fibres as to paralyse the sphincter for at least a week, during which time the ulcer assumes a healthy api)ear- ancc and rapidly heals, the pain ceasing entirely from the time of the operation." After relating some cases, the author remarks,—"I have been asked whether the paralysis of the sphincter ani, produced by forcible dilata- tion, is ever followed by incontinence or loss of control over the contents of the \ov, er bowel, the relaxed aud llabby appearance of the orifice