119 ClllCULATORY SYSTEM. there was a good deal of turbid serum iu tlie pericardium. The dia- gnosis had been made of fever with paralysis of the musculi papillaires. Palmeb, T.—Laucet, April and. States that he has met with subclavian murmur in 37 men out of 129 who were engaged in various manual occupations, and were all in the enjoyment of perfect health. He thinks that the murmur is caused in many cases by elevation of the first rib. In the 37 cases it occurred 17 times on the left side only, 7 times on the right, 13 times on both sides. ScHXiTZLEE and Eokitansky.—On persistence of the Ductus JBotallii. Wien. Med. Halle, 5, 10, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 133, p. 44. After relating a case,' Schnitzler indicates the following as the most important diagnostic points:—Extended cardiac dulness and rasping murmur in the second and third intercostal spaces, one inch from the left border of the sternum. This murmur is produced by the blood flowing rapidly into the pulmonaiy artery, meeting with the blood coming from an opposite direction, and being thus thrown into a, whirling motion, which produces vibrations in the walls of the pul- monary artery. Eokitansky states as the result of his experience that (i) arrest of the involution of the duct proceeds from the aorta; (2) the current flows in the persistent duct from the aorta into the pul- monary artery; (3) the hypertrophy and dilatation of the right heart, which are frequently present, are not of foetal origin, but are the result of the aortic stream entering the pulmonary artery. Skoda.—On insufficiency of the Valves of the Heart. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 8, 48, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 45. The signs of insuf&ciency sometimes retrograde and completely vanish in acute rheumatism and acute endocarditis. This is to be ex- plained by the removal of thickenings or excrescences being efi"ected by the process of resorption, so that tlie valves again become capable of closing. In the same way elongated cord^e tendinete may return to their normal length. In many cases this improvement is only temporary, because the process of resorption goes too far, and produces permanent alteration of the valves. The papillary muscles may be temporarily paralysed in endo- and pericarditis, and also in states such as the hys- terical attended with anomalies of innervation. In typhus, variola, scarlatina, even in endocarditis, phenomena of valvular insufficiency arc produced, especially in the beginning of the disease, by anomalous innervation of the muscular structure, and disappear again with the remission of the acute febrile symptoms. Even when insufliciency has lasted a long time the defective condition of one valve may be com- pensated by an enlargement of others, or by an endocardial exudation taking place upon it. Carditis attended with formation of cicatrices in the muscular tissue may produce phenomena of insufficiency, which will only be increased by wasting and absorption of the deposit. Skoda considers that such cicatricial formation may be diagnosed when it afl'ects the anterior wall or the apex by the increased bulging of the intercostal spacre, which occurs at each systole, without the pulse being