IXOUGANIC SUBSTANCES. 425 from cramps, cold sweats, and great depression. She died on the eighteenth day after the abortion; among the hiter symptoms were delirium and a feeling of constriction in the throat. Nine days before, the medical attendant had removed from the vagina some foreign sub- stance. This was not examined till after her death, and was then found to contain a considerable quantity of arsenic. The body was therefore examined. Arsenic was detected in the uterus and vagina, and also in the stomach and intestines. The other organs gave no evidence of it3 presence. The woman probably placed the poison in the vagina herself, with the idea of killing the foetus, for she had reasons for wishing her husband to be ignorant of her pregnancy. Apparently she was unawai'e that her OAvn life might be endangered by the absorption of the arsenic. Prof Maschka (' Prag. Vjhrschrft.,' 1864, i, p. 68) records the more important of the different medico-legal cases which came before him in the space of a year, from July, 1862, to July, 1863. Their total number was 167. The most important of them appears to have been a case of poisoning by arsenic, in which recovery took place, although five grains of the poison were obtained from the fluids vomited. The symptoms of irritant poisoning showed themselves half an hour after taking the food which contained the arsenic; after they had passed otf, the patient suffered from loss of power and formication in botli the upper and lower limbs. The absorption of the arsenic from the ali- mentary canal was probably impeded by its admixture with a greasy mass, made of flour, potatoes, and butter. M. Blondlot (' Comp. Eend.,' 57, 596) has presented to the Academy of Sciences a memoir on the transformation of arsenic into the solid hydride by nascent hydrogen, under the influence of nitrous compounds. " It is well known," he says, " that acids set free hydro- gen in presence of zinc or iron, and that when the nascent gas meets a soluble compound of arsenic it forms a gaseous hydride. Now, there is an exception to this genei-al rule in the case of nitric acid and its derivatives, which, generating ammonia, produce under similar circum- stances only a solid hydride, which is deposited on the zinc or floats in the liquid in the form of brown flocculi. The same thing occurs with all other acids when they contain even the smallest quantity of a nitrous compound. However, these reactions, which are of extreme delicacy, do not manifest themselves when the liquid contains in solu- tion either organic substances, which almost all oppose the formation of the solid hydride, nor some metallic solutions, especially those of lead, which metal, being deposited on the zinc, also interferes with its forma- tion. Tor this reason the experiment succeeds perfectly only when zinc and distilled acids are employed. A consequence of these facts is, that this reaction is not one suited for the medico-legal detection of arsenic; but it is nevertheless of great interest for toxicologists, for it indicates, in the employment of Marsh's process, a double danger, which was not hitherto suspected. The first is that of overlooking the presence of arsenic in liquids which contain it. This would take place if either in the sulphuric acid employed or in the liquids to be tested* there should be the least trace of a nitrous compound, for the solid