EEPORT ON TOXICOr.OGY AND MATERIA IIEDICA. 420 repeated, the first action will be of a stiimilant kind, not because such eft'ecta necessarily precede the narcotic symptoms, but because the blood at first contains only that quantity of the substance which pro- duces stimulant effects ; and even when a single large dose is swal- lowed the stimulant action will often appear before the narcotic, in consequence of the complete absorption of the substance requir- ing time. Inebriation is regarded by Dr. Anstie, not as a stimu- lant, but as a narcotic effect; and be supports this view by a careful analysis of the action of alcohol, chloroform, and hashish. From these he concludes that inebriation essentially consists in the destruction of the capacity of the brain for retaining or recalling moral and prudential impressions, and also for any kind of continuous intellectual labour; and that the apparent excitement of the emotions and desires is, in fact, but the unveiling of the lower part of our nature, which is in all men more or less ready to show itself when the customary checks are removed. Another curious set of phenomena belonging to inebriation are classified under the head of involuntaiy reminiscence, and are like- wise ascribed to arrest of the higher functions of the brain. The next chapter treats of certain bodily conditions which are un- favorable to the production of narcosis, and in which the substance, though taken in large quantities, fails to exert a narcotic action. The poison-line is shifted by the circumstances of the individual, as when large quantities of alcohol are administered in fevers or when large doses of opium are given in tetanus. Of this Dr. Anstie gives no ex- planation. The influence of habit, in enabling the system to bear large quantities of these substances is, he believes, due to a degradation in structure of the brain-substance, which renders the organ less sensitive to the action of the narcotic. The last part of the book contains a series of special researches on the action of ether, chloroform, and alcohol. Dr. Anstie denies that a " period of excitement," as indicating an early stage separate from the " period of anfesthesia," occurs during the production of narcosis by these agents. The muscular rigidity, the half-delirious movements, the incoherent talk, and the hysteric laughter, observed in these cases, do not, he says, occur till the signs of advancing paralysis have already developed themselves. Among tlie points in which Dr. Anstie differs from most physiologists is his opinion as to the action of narcotics upon the pupil. He adopts the view of Eouget, that the iris is an erectile tissue, and he regards contraction and dilatation, not as opposed con- ditions, but as depending upon the degree of action of the poison upon the cranial sympathetic system. Hence he greatly doubts the theoretical accuracy of the supposition that opium is likely to be an antidote for belladonna, or vice versd. BniTISn PIIAKMACOPOSIA. Much has been written on this subject in the medical ])eriodicals of the past year. Dr. Garrod's lectures before the College of Physicians are given in the 'Med. Times and Gaz.' (1864, vol. i, p. 113 et seq.). Lectures on the chemical processes and preparations, by Prof. Red-