241 EXCISION OF CHANCUES, tlie difterence between a specific and an accidental induration, but it is at least safe for me to say that I have occasionally seen cases in which, after the extirpation of an apparently specifically indurated sore, tliere has been no evidence of systemic infection. But whatever may be the eventual verdict on this point, it is almost universally admitted that wlien the lymphatics have once become involved, the treatment of the sore alone is not sufficient. The poison having entered the system, it must be combated by constitutional remedies." Dr. Humphry remarks in his address on surgery ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 175) that "the mercurial plan, especially for the in- durated form, is again in the ascendant, and, I think, deservedly so. ^Regarding the primary sore or spot as the continuing source, as well as the origin, of infection to the system, we can have no question of the importance of eradicating it as quickly as possible; and what \ye especially require is some more rapid and eifective means of doing this. The milder caustics seem to me simply to increase the amount of in- duration ; and the severer ones, even when freely applied, very often fail to destroy it. I was accordingly led to try the removal of the sore Avith the knife, when it admitted of being easily and completely in- sulated—in the cases, for instance, of chancre on the prepuce, especially near the margin, or on its exterior (and, in this latter situation, they are, in my experience, peculiarly liable to be followed by secondary symptoms). I am, in such cases, in the habit of removing the prepuce. The earlier it is done, of course, the better the prospect of comijlete eradication of the malady. Even at a late period, when secondary symptoms have set in, tlie primary lump still being large and hard, I have sometimes followed the same course, believing that the removal of that, which seems to be, not merely a source, but a maintenance of infection, would facilitate the cure of the patient; and I have found reason to be satisfied with the practice under these circumstances. The wound has in every instance healed kindly. I would warn those who may be disposed to resort to this summary method, that the incision should be carried quite wide of the base of the sore, so as to include a clear and considerable margin of liealthy skin and tissue with it; for in this, as in cancer, the influence of the disease extends for an uncertain distance around its apparent site ; and I have, in some instances, been di-sappointed at the recurrence of induration in the cicatrix, when I had not been sufficiently careful on this point. I would warn them also against giving too strong an assurance of immunity fronj a sub- yequent appearance of the disorder; for it is im])0S3ible to tell when the infection of the system begins, and wliether, therefore, in any par- ticular case, it has taken place; neither do we know what is the period of incubation, or whether there is any regular period ; and I have seen secondary symptoms commence after the wound caused by ablation of the primary sore had healed with a sound soft cicatrix. They have, liowevcr, been slight. I think the prospect may be represented thus: if induration has not taken place, or is only commencing, the probability of an appearance of secondary symptoms, after the complete removal of the sore, is very slight; and, if they do appear, they are not likely to be severe. If the induration has set in, the operation will diminish the 16