148 ItKl'OllT ON I'lUCTlCAI, JIKDICINE. one case the iiiucoua incinbraiie was entirely stripped of villi, excepting a few fragments whicli still remained, and iiie enlarged and prominent openings of tlie follicles of Lieberkiihn gave its surfuco the appearance of a sieve. In some instances evidences of disease were found in the pancreas. The second proposition was more difficult of proof, inas- much as vomiting usually occurs only in the first stage, and Ecnwick had no opportunity of examining the vomited matters at this period of the disease. In one case, in which vomiting took place in the third week, fibrinous casts of the stomach-tubes were discovered, and inflam- mation of the mucous membrane was proved to have existed by post- mortem examination. The chief reason upon which the opinion that desquamation of the epithelium occurs was derived from the micro- scopic examination of the contents of the stomachs of those who had died of this disease. The contents in recent cases consisted of pieces of fine membrane, of cells, and of granules and shreds of membrane. The membranes were of the shape and size of the tubes of the stomach, and were covered with granules and fat. The cells varied from -i-^Q-fj to -g-joo inch, and were usually fi'inged with fine pieces of membrane. In cases of longer duration the membranes were covered with cells, and were also of the size and shape of the stomach-tubes. In order to ascertain if these appearances were trustworthy as evidences of inflammation, the contents of the stomachs of 45 subjects were examined, and the condition of the mucous membrane at the same time being noted. In only i were there any fibrinous casts, and it was in a case of acute gastritis. In 18 there were only separate cells, chiefly of the columnar form; and in none of these was there any inflammatory action. In 8 cases casts of the upper parts of the tubes were plentiful, composed only of healthy conical cells, and in all the mucous membrane was in a natural condition. In 18 there were either plugs formed of cells and granules from the secreting parts of the tubes, or the casts of conical cells were overlaid with granular matters; and in all of these the stomach was more or less inflamed. Two cases of gastritis unconnected with scarlatina were also quoted as examples of the forms in which casts of the stomach-tubes appeared in vomited matters during life; and the author stated lie had detected casts of the stomach-tubes in matters vomited by persons atfected with gastritis connected with diseased kidneys, with inflammatory dyspepsia, and other forms of inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane. It was urged that if casts of the gastric tubes can be discovered during life in cases of gastritis, and if in scarlatina this condition exists, and casts have been found in the stomach after death, there is every probability that desquamation of the epithelium takes place in this organ as it does in the skin and in the kidneys. In support of the third proposition, the results of the following experiments were given in 3 cases of scarlatina:—10 grains of hard-boiled white of egg were digested at a temperature of 90° for 12 hours in an infusion of the mucous mem- brane, to which 3 per cent, of hydrochloric acid had been previously added. The average loss of albumen was 3I grains. Similar experi- ments performed on the stomachs of 11 males, who died of various diseases at the same hospital, gave an average loss of 4 grains, so tha