ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 443 sided. The treatment consisted in the administi'ation of tannin, iodide of potassium, and strong coffee, and in tlie use of cold affusion, and the application of ice to the head. Thirty-six hours after she swallowed the atropine her urine dilated the pupil of a rabbit to twice its size in less than ^ minutes. The woman remained well for several weeks after her recovery, but at the end of that time she became affected with loss of sensation in the finger-tips, formication, sleeplessness, illusions of sense, headachef lassitude, and gastric disturbance. She also complained of attacks o, palpitation at night, accompanied by great debility and distress. She remained anaemic, and no treatment succeeded in restoriug her to her previous state of health. Convolvulacece. M. Guibourfc ('Journ. de Phar. et de Chim.,' 44, p. 475) gives an account of a new form of jalap, as occurring in trade. It consists partly of a substance already described as the "faux jalap rouge," and which is said by Jourdanet to be an excrescence which forms on the trunk of the guava tree. The remainder is made up of tubercles which have been superficially coloured by some black liquid, readily removable by washing. Many of these tubercles are provided with radicles. M. Guibourt thinks that they are derived from the Agave Americana, or from some other plant of the same family. This kind of jalap came from New Orleans. Another variety of the drug, which reached Havre at the same time in a separate bale, is described by Guibourt as the " digitate jalap." It consists usually of 2 or 3 more or less fusiform tubercles, connected together, and terminating in an upturned point. They are usually small; their surface is of a grayish-black colour, and is deeply furrowed by desiccation. On section they are found to be white in the centre, gray at the circumference. Their internal structure resembles that of the true rather than that of the spiirious fusiform jalap. The botanical source of this drug is unknown. It yields only ,3'9i per cent, of resin, while true jalap should give 15—17 per cent. It should, therefore, not be substituted for the true drug, but may be used for extracting the resin, if this should be found equally active with that of ordinary jalap. Vogl (' Med. Jahi'blicher,' 1864, i, p. 25) has subjected the root of the Ipomcsa TiirletJiwn, a drug formerly held in high estimation, to an examination similar to that of Bernatzik on jalap recorded in the last ' Year-Book.' It appears to contain convolvulin; ifc is a less active purgative than jalap. Arrow-poisons. Dr. Braidwood ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Aug., 1864, p. 12,3) gives an account of the results which he attained in a series of experiments with dajaksch, an arrow-poison used in Borneo. The source of this substance appears not to bo known. It is an extract which, when dry, has a dark-iron-gray colour. It is dissolved by cold water, es- pecially in the presence of acids, It is eliglitlj^ soluble iji alcohol nucl