REPORT ON SURGERY. 888 Tlie heruiatome is uext used in the most epai-iug mauuer, not only iu the very limited application of the edge, but, which is even more im- portant, in the limited introduction of the point, for the ])eritoneal structures are stretched thin and closely applied to the abdominal aspect of the apertural wtructures. In few cases should the herniatome pass beyoud the Huger-nail, and in umbilical hernia not at all. In- cision of the tense margin is followed by pressure with the nail and tip of the linger, in the direction in which the incision was made. Pres- sure must on no account be made towards the abdominal cavity; neither fingers, directors, nor knifes should be carried in this direction. If the finger be passed into the abdomen before the margin is relaxed, there is no strangulation, and no operation should have been performed; if strangulation be present, the introduction of the finger after the limited use of the herniatome is more likely to injure, and seriously injure, the bowel and peritoneum, than to effect any useful dilatation. Gentle and momentary application of the taxis to the unwounded coverings completes the operation." In further explanation we may extract Mr. Jordan's description of its application to umbilical hernia. " The operation is especially appli- cable to umbilical hernia, as division of the cutaneous structures brings the finger so easily to the margin of the opening. It is most impera- tive here to carry the hernia knife as far as the nail only; where the margin of the linea alba projects after the manner of a short tube (as in a large irreducible strangulated case which occurred to me recently, in which convalescence followed the pretaxoid operation, but which ulti- mately terminated fatally in consequence of the grossest imprudence), the nail must precede the point of the knife step by step. The linea alba is thin; the fascia trausversalis is extremely thin ; the subperito- neal tissue is scanty, and, with the peritoneum, is pressed close to the margin of the outlet. In irreducible umbilical hernia it is of immense importance not to open these thinner structures except the linea alba." J. "Wood on hernia ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 29, &c.). Dr. Friedberg on the influence of phimosis in the production of rupture during the first year of life (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, i, i). Mr. Couper, case of hernia without sac (' Lend. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 177). S. "Wells on the diagnosis of ovarian hernia ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 104). Dr. Abegg, reduction, en bloc, of a femoral hernia (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 503). C. AV. Streubel on the pseudo-reduction of herniae, espe- cially of strangulated herniffi (reprint from the ' "\^erhandl. d. med. Gesellsch. zu Leipz.,' vol. i). A. Piedler, empty hernial sac with symptoms of strangulation, operation ('Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 286). "W. Eoser on the theory of strangulation (1. c, p. 85). E. Zeis describes two cases of hernia without sac in which the bowel was opened,—he imagines the sac had been ruptured during taxis; and one case in which he met with a double sac ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 136). Inguinal hernia.—li. Davies on the cure of inguinal hernia in chil- dren ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 666). J. Scholz, case of wound of the epigastric ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 236). J. Birkett, cases de- pending upon abnormal conditions of the vaginal process of the peri- toneum (' Guy's Hosp. Reports,' x, 261).