lUil'OIlT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKEIA MEDICA. 454 than those of frogs poisoned by tliia substance. The brain and me- dulhi of animals also present an aiiffimic appearance after the full action of nitro-glyceriue. 3. In large doses it impairs the power of motion more than sensation. It has not yet been observed to produce that continued exaltation of sensibility wliicli sometimes lasts for d'ays, weeks, or even months, after the administration of strychnia. 4. In Albers' experiments its action commenced in 3 or 4 minutes, while that of strychnia first appeared at the end of 11—15 minutes. 5. In the cat nitro-glycerine produced only the effects of hydrocyanic acid. The sensibility was diminished; there were slight tonic spasms, affecting chiefly the glottis; the spasms were, however, much less marked than those caused by prussic acid, but the same giddiness was observed which ushers in the action of that poison. Dr. E. Demme ('Eep. f. Pharm.,' 12, p. 431) has made some observa- tions on the therapeutical action of this substance. He first experi- mented on himself, taking 2 or 3 drops of an alcoholic solution, containing i-ioth part of nitro-glycerijie. It produced a tingling sen- sation in the throat and an increase in the secretion of saliva. At the end of 10 minutes, or somewhat later, he felt a sensation of giddiness and a dull pain in the head. When 5 or 6 drops of the solution were taken these effects followed more quickly, and were accompanied by a quivering sensation of the masseter muscles. After a dose of 10 drops the movements of the lower jaw were impeded, from contraction of the temporal and masseter muscles, and slight twitchings were felt in the muscles of the extremities. These effects lasted about half an hour, and gradually passed off. The same solution was used with advantage in doses of from 2 to 4 drops, repeated 3 or 4, or even 6 times a day, in certain forms of paralysis, especially in those which appear not to arise from any organic lesion. In many cases it seemed to be more efficacious than the nux vomica. Its continued use did not produce any injurious effects, and there was no evidence of a cumulative actiou. It could not be detected either in the secretions or in the excretions of the patients to whom it had been given. Aniline Colours.—Dr. E. Friedreich ('Deut. Klin.,' 1863, p. 461) relates a case which be considers to be one of poisoning by the aniline colours. The patient was a youth, set. 18, who had been employed for two months in a warehouse, where he was occupied in packing these substances, during which time his hair, hands, and face, were stained blue- by the dust which was given ofi" from the fuchsin. The symptoms began with faintness and pain in the back of the head. The most charac- teristic of them were clonic cramps, affecting the face as well as the limbs, which appeared on the 5th day during sleep, and continued for about a week. Great weakness and depression of spirits and dilata- tion of the pupils were among the other symptoms; and this certainly coincides with the results of experiments upon animals with these sub- stances. No aniline could be detected in the urine. Eecovery took place after 17 days. , Compound Camphor Liniment.—Dr. Taylor ('Guy's IIosp. Eep.. 1864, p. 190) relates a case of poisoning by this liquid, in a child 4A- days old, in which death occurred at the end of 32 hours.