418 HEPORT on toxicology and materia MEDICA. actions wliicli are altogetlier abnormal," and he proposes to talce tlie idea of stimulation, " not from the notion of a sharp thorn plunged sud- denly into a sensitive tissue, but from that of a goad applied to the sullen ox, whose sensibilities it wounds no further than is sufficient to remind him of work which he has to do, aud which he can do very well if he likes to try." He gives the following as the genuine elFects of stimula- tion:—Eelief of pain; removal of muscular spasm, tremor, or convulsion ; reduction of undue frequency of the circulation ; reduction of excess in secretion ; removal of general debility, or of special fatigue of muscles, brain, or digestive organs ; removal of delirium or maniacal excitement, and production of healthy sleep; support of the organism in the absence of ordinary food; and, lastly, local increase of nutrition, where this is deficient. The agents which he classifies as stimulants according to this view are as follows:-—-i, Quickly digested and nutritious food. 2. Opium, ill doses of i to 2 grains; or morphia, in doses of a t to 4 a grain. 3. Carbonate and muriate of ammonia, in doses of 5 and 10 grains respectively. 4. Alcohol, in doses just too small to produce flushing of the face or sweating of the brow. 5. Chloroform inhaled (in the proportion of about two parts in the hundred of air) for a short time, or taken internally, in doses of a few drops. 6. Certain fetid gum-resins. 7. Many aromatic volatile oils. 8. The bitters, pure and aromatic. 9. " Counter-irritation," as it is called—stimulation, as it should be termed—through the adjacent skin, with mustard, turpen- tine, &c., or with blisters. It will be seen that the doses which produce stimulant efiects are given in many instances. -This forms, indeed, an important part of Dr. Anstie's views. Many of the substances which he classifies as stimu- lants are capable also of producing narcotic effects ; but Dr. Anstie says that this depends altogether upon the quantity taken, aud that the effect of a large dose is not physiologically continuous (so to speak) with that of a small quantity, but is of a totally difterent nature. Thus, he finds that opium taken in doses of a grain to 2 grains when he is hungry has a most remarkable influence in dispelling the desire for food, substituting for it a warm and comfortable feeling over the whole body, which lasts an hour or an hour aud a half, aud on subsiding leaves no trace of depression, except that caused by hunger. "When suffering from influenza-like catarrh, attended with great depression, he experiences similar beneficial eftects from opium ; but if the quantity be increased, with the idea of making 'the cure more certain, the narcotic action comes into play, and the remedy fails. In doses of 5 grains the action of carbonate of ammonia is, he says, identical with that of gram- doses of opium, with the exception of difterences in their taste and in the rapidity of their diffusion. He finds that the power of relieving pain possessed by ammonia is equal to that of opium, even when the pain is of an inflammatory kind; and alcohol exerts a similar action. He also relates a case of peritonitis, in which the injection of strong soup into the rectum gave marked relief to the pain, as a proot that food is rightly placed at the head of his list of stimulants. Again, chloroform is found to cut short epileptic fits m doses far too small to produce narcotic effects, and he ascribes this to a stmiulant