369 ABORTION. aud difficulty in defsccation. In all three cases the retroversion was first discovered in the hospital, the vaginal examination having been previously omitted. All tliree cases presented very similar symptoms All had reached the 3rd—4th montli of pregnancy. In all reposition of the uterus was effected without difficulty by pressing upwards on the fundus with two fingers in the rectum, but in only one case pregnancy progressed. Abortion followed in both the other cases, and one terminated fiitally with dysentery. In Dr. Atthill's case, the patient, after over-exerting herself in the fourth month of pregnancy, sufi"ered from sudden retention of urine. On examination, the uterus was found retroverted; reposition Avas eftected without difficulty. A month later, after a long walk, haemorrhage occurred with sharp pains, and continued at intervals for a fortnight. This ceased on the 28th of August, and from that time till November loth the patient enjoyed excellent health. On that day, severe hfemorrhage occurred", with expulsion of a foetus. This was blighted, and the author believes its development was arrested in the fourth month, at the time of the first hfemorrhage. During the three months it remained in utero the mother's health was very good, though slie noticed that she did not increase in size. An interesting point in the case is the cessation of obstinate nausea, first on the uterus being retro- verted, aud secondly on the occurrence of the first haemorrhage. ABOBTIOir. Hiiter, Dr. V., " On Habitual Abortion, with Flexion of the Uterus" ('Mon. f. Geb.,' Sept., 1864). Dr. Hiiter points out the importance of ascertaining, if possible, the cause of each abortion, and maintains that in a great majority of cases this will be found to depend upon flexion of the uterus. He recom- mends that a very careful examination should be made in all cases after the occurrence of an abortion, and also in the second or third month of pregnancy after the first or second abortion, if no sufficient cause can be ascertained. Scanzoni ('Lehrbuch der Geburt.'), records that in 26 women in which flexion of the uterus existed 44 abortions occurred. Tlie author fully admits that abortion does not necessarili/ occur with flexion, for Hoist ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 4, 186.3, P' 303), records six cases of undoubted flexion without abortion. Dr. Hiiter relates very fully cases of which the following is a type. A patient aborted four times, between the 7th and loth week, without any apparent cause. After the fourth abortion an examination revealed anteversion of the uterus, and this condition existing at the 5th week of the fifth pregnancy, mechanical treatment, by manual reposition of the flexed uterus, was adopted, with perfect rest in bed during the second and third months. This resulted in normal gestation and labour. Dr. Hiiter maintains—■ I. That a disposition to abort in consequence of one or more abortions does not exist, but that every abortion has its own special cause, which cannot always be discovered. 2. That the flexion of the uterus disappears during the progress of the abortion, on whicli ac- 21