REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY Dh. C. HILTON FAG&E. LITEEATTTEE. Db. Pabees publishes a 'Manual of Practical Hygieue' (London, Churchill and Sons, 1864). This book was prepared with especial reference to the requirements of the medical service of the army, and it contains full details as to the peculiarities of the foreign stations; but the chapters on ventilation, air and water, are of general interest, and they undoubtedly supply a want which has long been felt. Dr. B. D. Mapothei', Professor of Hygiene and Medical Officer of Health for the City of Dublin, publishes a course of ' Lectures on Public Health,' delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons. The chair of hygiene was founded in the Dublin College in the year 1844. Dr. Mapother's lectures appeared first in the 'Dublin Medical Press' (10, p. I et seq.), and they have since been issued in a separate form. Dr. Fr. Oesterlen is the author of a work upon medical statistics (' Handbuch der Medicinischen Statistik,' Laupp u. Siebeek, Tubingen, 1864), which made its appearance in two parts. After an introduction, dealing generally with the numerical method, Oesterlen considers the "general statistical relations of the population," and the "statistics of disease and of other causes of death;" and concludes with the statistics of " morbility," or of the liability to disease of different kinds under all the varied conditions of life. VACCINATION-. The 6th Eeport of the Medical Officer of the Frivy Council (Ap- pendix, p. i) contains papers on the state of public vaccination in London, by Drs. Seaton and Buchanan; in Yorkshire, Herefordshire, and Wales, by Dr. Seaton; in Yorkshire, Lancashire, Cheshire, and Cumberland, by Dr. Stevens; and in Gloucester, Somerset, and Devon, by Dr. Sanderson. The results of these inquiries confirm those arrived at in previous investigations, and show that the working of the system is at present imperfect. The quality of the lymph supplied by the National Vaccine Establishment was, "however, found by Dr. Seaton to be entirely satisfactory.