SECRETOTIY SYSTEM. 169 also be maintained that cases of syphilitic inflammation, especially of the gummatous form, as long as the organ is enlarged, may be benefited and even cured by rational treatment. Oppolzer recommends iodide of potassium, wliile Leudet prefers mercury. Other symptomatic treat- ment may also be employed, as saline aperients, mineral waters and baths in the hypertrophic form, in the atrophic tonics, as iodide of iron, and a generous diet. Gbaingee Stewakt, T., M.D.—Brit, and Por. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1864. Eecords a case of syphilitic affection of the liver. Stewart remarks, " It is evident that the waxy degeneration of the liver in "this case waa very different from the form of that degeneration usually met with in two respects, viz., first, that in the bulk of the organ, instead of affecting the cells, it affected the vessels ; and, secondly, that groups of nodules in in- dividual parts had become completely degenerated, every cell presenting an exquisite specimen of the degeneration, and the masses scattered like cancer throughout the whole substance, presenting an appearance exactly like beeswax. The liver was about the natural size, it contained a number of nodules scattered throughout its substance, and on its sur- face a number of cicatrices. Stewart believes that the cicatrices were results of transformation of the waxy nodules, for there was no cicatrix without a corresponding waxy mass, and there were many masses with- out a cicatrix; moreover, the depth of a cicatrix bore a definite relation to the condition of the masses. The series of changes he believes to have been the following :—(i) Extreme waxy or amyloid degeneration of certain districts or groups of lobules in the liver. (2) A develop- ment of connective tissue in these masses, gradually causing atrophy of the degenerated gland-cells, and leading to the formation of cicatrices. (3) The cicatrized condition—bands of fibrous tissue radiating from a dense centre into the surrounding tissue, and enclosing within the remains of the broken-down cells. Stewart does not, of course, deny that syphilitic cicatrices may arise from gummy or simple inflammations, as has been described, but he thinks that the above instance proves that they may be formed in another and altogether different way. Geehaedt.—Direct treatment of Icterus Catarrhalis. Wiirzh. Med. Ztschr., 4, p. 312, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 187. Gerhardt states that he has succeeded in two cases in forcing out the plug of mucus obstructing the orifice of the common duct, and so evacuating the accumulated contents of the gall-bladder. The occurrence of this is proved by the bilious coloration of the fteces, which appears soon after the manipulation has been successfully practised. He directs the practitioner to ascertain by percussion the limits of the distended gall-bladder, which is then to be compressed carefully by the pngers steadily pushed backwards. The organ may be distinctly felt to collapse, and when this has occurred its dulness has disap- oeared.