NERVOUS SYSTEM. 71 relation with the age of reproductive activity, and are iu some way or other associated in the sex with utero-ovarian function. The frequent coincidence of amenorrhoja in the unmarried patients with chlorosis and Graves' disease, and of leucorrhcea, menorrhagia, hysteralgia, or other like affection in the married, farther points to this conclusion. And still more conclusive is the fact as to the relations of the thyroid body to the utero- ovarian function. It is often slightly enlarged during menstruation and pregnancy, sometimes dangerously—nay, even fatally, while at least 90 per cent, of the bronchoceles met with in this country are observed in women. In these respects the thyroid body is like the mammae, and since it is now admitted by all, I think, that the influence of the uterus and ovaries on the mammae during menstruation and pregnancy is exercised through the nervous system; we may infer that this vascular bronchocele is induced in like manner. In short, we may conclude from a collocation of clinical facts that neuro-vascular women, naturally of an emotional, excitable temperament, or who, during uterine activity, or during sexual excitement, have had fright, grief, excessive mental labour, or other causes morbidly influencing the nervous system (amongst which we may place anaemia), or who are of an age at which the reproductive organs are functionally active, are predisposed to Graves' disease, and that emotional and similar mental states are the exciting causes. The spinal seats of Ch'aves' disease. First, as to the violent palpitations. Laycock points out that in a fatal case of angina pectoris the neuralgic pains affected the very same parts as in the cases of Graves' disease, viz., those supplied by the external and internal cutaneous nerves, and the inter-costo-humeral. As to the motor nerves and the motor activity of the heart and large vessels there is complete dissimilarity. In the above case he observed diminished power of the heart, and therewith fatty degeneration, just as occurs in voluntary muscles, while in the female patients with exoph- thalmos, there was increased power and activity both in the heart and arteries. Now, as it has been shown experimentally that the oculo-spinal region of the cord contains a cardiac motor tract, we may conclude that 1 in the case of angina pectoris the neuralgia was associated with paresis of . the spinal motor tract of the heart and large vessels in the man, in the I woman with excessive motor irritability. It is probable, too, that in these there is also a hypertesthesia of the endocardium—not sensory, but reflex • —for in experiments on the sympathetic increased capillary activity of i the skin and cutaneous hyperaesthesia are conjoined. The increased activity of the large arteries is dependent upon some morbid condition of J the same oculo-spinal region. ' Whittle, E.—Brit. Med. Journ., March 26. Relates a case of hydrophobia occurring in a male ret. 35. The chief peculiarity was a constant and distressing inclination to pass urine, while scarce any was voided. He felt every now and then something flash through him, as if he were electrified, beginning at the penis. Every 5 minutes he was seized with a convulsive shuddering, that seemed to per- vade his whole frame ; some of the attacks were more severe than others, when ho extended his arms and legs rigidly, leaped up in his chair, and chilled out to be held that he might not do harm to anybody. By u reso-