GENEEAL SYSTEM. 85 of the cells of tbe inflammatory lymph ia comparatively unimportant, and that it is the sub-epithelial connective tissue we are more especially to look to as the seat of their formation. When sections through the inflamed costal pleura were examined before the addition of acetic acid and glycerine, a confused mass of new-formed cells mingled with the proper fibres of the sub-epithelial connective tissue in apparently inex- ti-icable confusion was seen. But after the addition of the above reagents had caused the white fibrous element of the tissue to disap- pefu', the aiTangement and relations of the new-formed cells could be followed, especially in those parts of the section where the elastic fibres wei-e at a minimum. The new-formed cells were small, pale, and rounded, with faintly granular contents, and closely corresponded in. their characters to those existing in the inflammatory lymph coating the free surface of the membrane. . In those parts of the sections which lay immediately beneath this free surface, the cells were crowded to- gether in great numbers, and formed closely-packed rows, or clustered masses. But somewhat deeper they were not so densely set, and here, therefore, their mode of arrangement could be more satisfactorily studied. In many places they were so disposed as to form a network, more or less close, which possessed greater or lesser degrees of irregularity in the size and form of its meshes. For the most part the cells were arranged in rows, though here and there they lost the linear disposition and formed small clusters. The cells succeeding each other in any given row were either actually or almost in contact, though occasionally inter- vals of somewhat greater extent existed between them. These cell networks evidently did not lie free in the interstices of the texture, but were enclosed by an investing membrane, which appeared to constitute a tubular system possessing numerous anastomoses, though here and there the tubes gradually terminated in long pointed processes. Cells containing tubular networks presenting modifications of the plan just described, could be followed through the greater part of the thickness of the inflamed costal pleura, though in some places the numerous yellow elastic fibres prevented the arrangement from being so closely traced. The constancy of these arrangements shows that these cells containing tubular networks are not mere accidental occurrences in inflammation of the pleura, but are evidently due to something in the anatomical configuration of the part which determines that the new cells produced in the course of the inflammatory process should arrange them- selves in such a manner. Turner indicates the stellate and anastomosing nucleated corpuscles of the connective tissue as the essential seat of the new cell-growth, and as therefore determining its arrangement. If this texture be examined in the early periods of the inflammatoiy process, the single nucleus of the connective tissue-corpuscle may be seen to be constricted in the middle as if dividing, or to have divided into two or a greater number. The corpuscles themselves are enlarged and swollen and contain two or more small, pale, faintly granular, cell-like bodies, corresponding in appearance to the cells which constitute so essential a constituent of the in6ammatory lymph. With the further continuance of the inflammation the corpuscles swell out more, and become more distorted in shape ; their anastomoses become larger and more distinct;