163 SECUETOUY SYSTEM. times takes to arrest these deposits in persons habitually accustomed to the use of sucli waters. Harlev, J., M.D.—Oii the endemic Hcemaiuria of the Oape of Good Bope. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc.,' vol. 4, 1864, p. 28,5. In a patient under the author's care, the symptoms were the following:— After micturition a little blood, never exceeding a teaspoonful or some dark " veins," appeared with the last half ounce of urine. The urine itself was never bloody. Sometimes "the veins" would block up the urethra, and cause obstruction for a few minutes. He had an occa- sional twinge of smart pain in the loins. He said great numbers of people of both sexes were affected in precisely the same way in certain parts of the Cape. Inquiries made by Dr. Harley corroborated the patient's statements. In the various examples of urine sent to him by his patient he invariably detected the eggs of an entozoon, and in one specimen he had the good fortune to discover the perfect embryo after its escape from the egg-shell, under the form of a minute ciliated animalcule. From its anatomical chai-acters and developmental changes he was led to refer the parasite to the trematode class of worms, and to the family Distomum. The animal which it seemed most nearly to resemble in the outward form of the eggs, as well as in the symptoms of the disease it produces, was the Distomwn hcsmatobium. This para- site, according to Bilharz and Griesmyk, was very common in Egypt, and inhabited aU parts of the urinary apparatus. There were, however, notable differences between this animal and the one he had described, and which he proposed to term D. Capense. In the urine of two young men who had suffered from the endemic hfematuria, but con- sidered themselves to be now free from it, Dr. Harley was able to detect the characteristic eggs of the parasite in question. Having thus demon- strated the existence of the same parasite in three individuals suffering or having suffered from the htematuria endemic in some parts of the Cape, he concluded that the animal was the constant cause of the disease. AVade.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., July 30. In many cases of renal dropsy has found that the use of ordinary vegetable diuretics in large quantities produces diuresis when smaller doses fail. He gives for example sometimes a quart of the compound decoction of broom. He has also found that iodide of potassium exer- cises a most marked influence upon the rather rare cases of albuminuria which have a syphilitic origin. The same drug he has recently employed with marked results in a case of painful enlarged and nodulated Hver, in a young girl who presented all Mr. Hutchinson's indications of con- genital syphilis. [fASSALL, A. II.—Lancet, Dec. 17. % Publishes some analyses of the .blood and urine in an instance of ^ granular degeneration, and in one of fatty degeneration of the kidney. 'i.n the first the amount of urine was considerably in excess of the normal amount, but the sp. gr. was low and the urea, urid acid, phos- i)horic acid, sulphuric acid, and chlorine, were all more or less below the