I ^^^^ • llEPOHT ON SUllGJillY. a chancre. Thirdly, certaiu purely local conditions seem to be iavorable altbovigh by no means essential. Tims the process of induration it- usually nnich more complete on tlic prepuce and on the lipw, for ex- ample, than it is on the trunk, and it may perhaps be owing to a similai- special aptitude or affinity that the lymphatic glands are so conslautlj- and readily aftected by it. " It may, perhaps, be objected, however, that oftentimes when a. chancre has been cauterized or excised, the wound, although made in parts previously unindurated, has been observed to undergo induration. But if this be a proof of the action of the virus through the medium ol the blood, or of systemic infection, why is it that superficial solutione- of continuity happening simultaneously in other parts, do not also become indurated ? Every day's experience shows that they do not, and yet the same blood and the same constitutional state exist for them i as for the part that is undergoing induration. AVhy again, it may be asked, is a reproduction of induration in a wound made for excising aa true chancre to be regarded as a proof of constitutional infection more ■ than the reproduction of an epithelial cancer after imperfect extirpation ? The reproduction of the induration after excision much more probably proves that the quantity of tissue removed has not been sufficient; it pei'haps also proves, that although the syphilitic virus may have passed ■ into the blood, the true syphilitic diathesis has not yet been produced; finally, it may prove the extremely gradual extension of the poison from the primary centre or centres, and may serve as an argument not" against the propagation of the poison through the medium of the blood, but in favour of a quite different explanation. If we withdrew ourr , minds from the too exclusive contemplation of the part played in the animal body by the vessels and their contents, we shall perhaps be all • the more ready to admit the possibility of the syphilitic poison extend- ing itself from cell to cell, very much after the manner of cancer. Indeed, in more than one respect, the analogy between cancer and; v syphilis is becoming every day more and more apparent. But, however that maybe, it will perhaps be allowed that the e^ddence in favour- of the theory vrhich attempts to account for the extension of the process of induration by reference to what is vaguely called systemic infection is not clear, whereas the view that the syphilitic virus disse-- minates itself through the contiguous cells, and is carried away by the lymphatics, in the same way as cancer, becomes more and more tenable the more we examine it. Although, therefore, it is established by ; clinical observation that the specific induration of a sore only becomes ■ ; perceptible to us, as a rule, after the poison has entered tlie system, there is nothing in the mere fact of induration which should cause us • to regard the constitutional infection as either present or inevitable. Such induration ought rather to be regarded as the direct result of the syphilitic poison upon a part suited to undergo the process, and there is consequently no reason, theoretically, why the excision of a chancre should not often be as successful as the excision of its analogue—cancer;. but in order to be so, it must be conducted on the same principles. It must obviously be a difficult matter to aftbrd practical proof of the ■■, truth of this conclusion, because, as yet, we cannot exactly determine I