208 UEPOET ON SURGBRY, wards. The worst cases have certainly occurred in association witli phagedsena. " None of my own patients have suffered from diphtheria of the pliarynx at the same time that their wounds were affected by it; but in one case which my colleague Mr. Maunder requested me to see with him, both the throat and the wound were simultaneously affected. J have had several cases of diphtheria of the throat occurring in patients who were inmates of wards in which were others suffering from diphthe- ritic wounds. "In some conditions of wounds, a pellicular exudation takes place, without any swelling, and under conditions very different from those which we are describing. A gentleman, now under my care on account of an ulcer on one leg as large as a halfpenny, and in a remarkably irritable condition, now and then presents this state of things. I have peeled from his sore a continuous layer about as thick as white kid leather, and quite coherent. This membrane will cover the entire sore, so that every trace of granulation is concealed. There is no swelling of the edges of the wound, and no tendency to phagedsena. " As regards the treatment of diphtheritic wounds, the most essential point is to remove the pellicle. It must be scraped away everj' few hours as fast as formed. Nitrate of silver may be applied, or a solution of Condy's fluid, or continued irrigation with warm water. On the whole, I prefer irrigation; but, to be successful, it must be profuse, and the pel- licle must be very patiently and completely and frequently removed. Repeatedly I have seen no good obtained from irrigation for several days, on account of neglect to scrape off the pellicle. I have usually prescribed a mixture containing chlorate of potash and tincture of bark ; but as we have always devoted much attention to local treatment, it would be unsafe to infer that these remedies had any material share in the cure. " In several cases in which the wounds were on the hand or forearm, I have ventured at once to discharge the patient from the hospital when the diphtheritic inflammation made its appearance. In two such—an Irishwoman, from whose hand two fingers had been amputated after a severe crush, and a man from Mellish Ward, with a severe wound of the forearm—a cure resulted very quickly after leaving the hospital. In several others I am not acquainted with the ultimate result, but I believe that in no instance did the disease afterwards advance." Dr. Klotz has employed, instead of Serres-fines, a kind of clasp for the purpose of uniting wounds ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 261). J. K. Haschek on punctured wounds (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 22, &c.). BTTEKS AKD SCALDS. M. Lemlert, the treatment of hums hy phospliorus {' Gaz. Med. de Lyon,' 1864, No. 10).—The author thinks that the special danger of these injuries consists in a part of the phosphorus remaining in the wound, where it gradually oxidizes ; the acid thus formed causes great ii'ritation both of the wound and surroundmg parts. He recommends painting the