173 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. successful than others. After examining in detail the nature of the supposed parasites, the nature and the contagious quality of parasitic diseases, and, lastly, their treatment, the author submits the following conclusions :—(i) It is possible that there are vegetable parasites which find on the surface of the human body favorable conditions for their development. (2) At the present time it is not demonstrated that such parasites constitute the essential and necessary cause of certain cutaneous diseases. (3) Neither microscopic nor chemical nor ana- tomical examination support the view of the vegetable nature of the favous formation, or of the round corpuscles described as fungi-sporules. (4) They rather prove that the elements of the favous formation are produced by the organism, and that the other corpuscles may have proceeded from components of the tissues altered by disease. (5) In all cases these products are not the initial phenomenon of the so-termed parasitic skin diseases. (6) It is wrong to regard them as the cause of their contagious property, because they are formed with the same characters in other non-contagious diseases. (7) Even the advocates of the parasitic theory do not agree respecting the part which these hypothetic vegetable formations play in the pathogeny of skin diseases. (8) It follows that at the present time we cannot admit in dermatology either a disease essentially depending on a parasitic vegetable growth or an antiparasitic treatment. "WAEBtiKTOjr Begbie, J. — Clinical Observations on JPavus. Edinb. Med. Journ., March, 1864. Begbie advocates depilation in the treatment of favus as superior to all other modes of treatment. It is, however, to be combined with the use of phyticide applications, as a solution of corrosive sublimate, a liniment of huile de cade, and sulphate of mercury ointment. The precise plan pursued in all the cases of favus recently under Begbie's care is as fol- lows :—On reception the patient has at once a hot bath, and both head and body are thoroughly cleansed with the aid of soft soap ; tlie hair of the head is then cut to the level of the favus crusts, and the oil of juniper is applied by means of a thick camel-hair brush. On the succeeding day poultices of potato starch are placed over the head, and diligently continued till the complete separation of the crusts is effected. This done, the juniper oil is reapplied, and on the day following the process of depilation commenced. While this is continued the daily use of one or other of the phyticide applications is being made. Care should always be taken that the depilation is complete, and that it is persevered in until the growth of healthy looking hairs over all parts of the scalp is observed. Thus, the treatment may require many weeks for its thorough execution, but when it is remembered that the cure effected is radical its lengthened duration may well be tolerated. A case is re- corded in which it seems probable that favus-sporules gave rise, first, to herpes circinnatus and subsequently to favus in the same part. TiLBUBT Fox, M.D.—On Impetigo contaffiosa. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 16, April 30, May 7, 21, Juue 4. The author applies the above name to a form of disoi'der desio-nated