178 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINli. applying leeches to the anus ; he then prescribes a milk and vegetable diet, cooling drinks, especially lemonade prepared with nitric or sulj)huric acid and sweetened with syrup. He lays much stress upon bran baths, prepared by boiling 4 lbs. of bran for half an hour in a suiliciency of water and mixing it witii the water of thebath. The affected parts are frequently washed with decoction of lettuce, dulcamara, or poppy; or the lotions are I'eplaced by prolonged inunctions made with oil of hyoscyamus, opiate cerate, or the following—chloroform grs. 75 + glycerine grs. 300. This treatment, combined with mild purgatives, often lead to a sudden and complete cure. But if the prurigo be, as is usually the case, of old standing, we must trust chiefly to external agents, though still insisting upon a suitable regimen aud the use of acid drinks. The alkalies here form excellent topical applications; the salts of potash and soda, in sufficiently diluted solutions, both favour the resolution of the papules and calm the itching. "With the same object we may have recourse to simple or aromatic fumigations, vapour baths, sometimes even corrcsive sublimate. Duparc, however, gives the preference to tar in suspension or incorporated with lard and united with opium. Lotions and baths of tar water should be frequently renewed. The following formula gives excellent results :—Tar 60 grs., gummy extract of opium 15 grs., lard I oz. In the case of baths and lotions it is well to add a gelatin- ous substance (such as a lbs. of glue to 200 quarts of water) because the papillae parts are the most sensitive of the skin. Duparc finds sulphurous preparations only moderately useful in prurigo. They only do good when it is complicated with pityriasis or psoriasis. Tlie most useful of the mineral waters are those which are alkaline, and contain a thick vegetable principle, such as the waters of Neris. In prurigo pudendi and in prurigo podicis we must often have recourse to the application of prussic acid, sulphate or muriate of morphia, chloroform, &c. In some patients benefit is derived by the occasional use of astringents and antispasmodics; in others slight and altogether super- ficial cauterizations do good. Nevertheless, though topical applications are very imjjortant, the necessity for internal remedies must not be over- looked, especially when the disease is of old standing. It is here that aconite is very useful. Many years ago M. Cazenave derived great benefit from the use of this substance in papular cutaneous aftections, especially in prurigo. Considering prurigo as a neuralgia of the papillse of the skin, having as an accessory character the appearance of papules, Cazenave had recourse to the simultaneous employment of alkaline baths and the iise of the following pill: —alcoholic extract of aconite, extract of taraxacum, 'ana gr. 15, M. ft. in pil. 40, i—ij 0. n. et mane. Duparc generally prefers tinctiu-e to the extract of aconite ; where the case is very obstinate, the use of the arseniate of iron and emollient baths are often useful. The prolonged use of the bath is especially important. Duparc often directs them to be of 2 or 3 hours' dura- tion, aud to be repeated daily. If, while, the patients are undergoing them, friction of the affected parts of the skin, or, still better, an intel- ligent shampooing, be practised, a very bcneficiid modification of the skin will be brought about.