DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 145 I horrible ; it is of tbe same kind as that j)loughing up of the chest ex- perieuceil with a very sore chest each time one coughs, only worse. It is as if a dozen laucets were plunged into the top of the sternum each time an act of swallowing is made. The pain coincides with the muscular act of deglutition, and in no way succeeds it; the moment the voluntary part of the act is over, the height of the pain subsides, and nothing'but the abiding sense of soreness remains. _ I early dis- covered—whether accidentally or by an intuitive perception, I cannot tell—that the position of the head made a great difference—all the difterence—to the pain; that if the head was thrown back, and therefore the chin raised, the pain on swallowing was the greatest —much greater than when the head was in the ordinary position; that in proportion as the head was bent forward the pain on Bwallowiug was diminished; and that if the chin was quite bent down on the breast, absolutely no increase of pain might be felt on swallowing, at a time when swallowing with the chin raised gave intolerable suffering. The height of the attack only lasts a few hours; in the course of the morning it gradually becomes much mitigated, but I still take the precaution of depressing my chin on my breast each time I swallow. In a or 3 days all pain on swallowing has ceased, and the abiding soreness at the top of the sternum has also nearly dis- appeared. The disappearance of the pain on swallowing coincides with the diminution of the sternal soreness, and with the appearance of expectoration ; the moment I can cough up a pellet or two of mucus the swallowing is easier. On one occasion a pellet of gelatinous mucus which I coughed up had a spot of blood upon it. I have observed that, when I am suffering from this painful swallowing, I have a certain amount of the same pain on taking a very deep inspiration, the severity of the pain being proportionate to the depth of the inspiratory act." Another patient describes his dysphagia as follows:—Every time he swallowed it felt, as the bolus of food was passing the painful part, as if it was a round ball covered with thorns. The seat of the pain was underneath the lower end of the breast-bone, " as near the breast-bone as could be, and passed backwards right between the shoulder-blades." Coughing occasioned pain and a sense of scraping in the same situa- tion. The dysphagia with the cough lasted 6 months, and the suffering from swallowing was so great that he only ate one meal a day, and that not more than half a penny bun, and every particle he ate he had soaked. His voice at the same time was hoarse, and for 3 weeks he nearly lost it. In a second attack, while under Salter's observa- tion, the pain in swallowing was not quite so severe as on the first occasion, but still it was so great as quite to convulse him. Salter watched him while he was swallowing a piece of bread crum, and says that he was quite easy as long as he was chewing ; but the moment he tried to swallow it his difficulty began. The effort was evidently attended with the most severe pain; the expression of his face and the contortions of his body indicated great sutl'ering, and it was only after two or three eff"orts that the food apparently passed. He felt as if each mouthful he swallowed stopped beneath the sternum, and lodged there till he swallowed another mouthful, and that pushed it on. A blister 10