2U IIKPOIIT ON SUUOKllY. that remedy liiis required lieretol'ure several repetitions, it W(;uJd imw be used more energetically. The diseased surface would be thorouglily cleansed of all slouglis, by removing those portions dead, yet tenaciously adherent, with the forceps and scissors, and pure bromine would be freely used by means of a glass pipette or a syringe. A number of the cases reported I am now satisfied would have proved fatal but for this local treatment." B. L. Stanford reports a case ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 24), in which the compound solution of bromine was applied daily for the term of twenty-seven days without arresting the gangrenous process, while the 2>ure bromine arrested it upon the first application. "The wound was prepared for the reception of the remedy in the same way, and with no more pains than had been taken upon each application of the solution. The constitutional symptoms subsided within twenty-four hours after the pure bromine had been applied ; the gangrenous odour disappeared entirely within the first six hours after the application of the pure remedy. Within twenty-four hours the appetite returned, and has continued good ever since." G. JR. WeeJcs reports ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 46), that "there were cases treated in the various hospitals in Louisville, Ky. Of these, 104 were treated with bromine in some manner, and 11 by other remedies. Of those treated by bromine, 3 died; 2 of pyasmia and 1 of cellulitis, gangrene having been previously arrested, and the wounds were granulating. Of the 11 otberwise treated, 3 died of gan- grene. Of those treated by bromine, 80 were treated with compound solution (Smith's formula), and 24 vrith pure bromine. The average time of arrest in the cases treated by compound solution of bromine was S'lp days; those by bromine pure, 2't2 days; and of those other- wise treated, i4'66. I observed this general fact, that, as the strength of the remedy was increased, the process was shortened in a corre- sponding ratio also; that, where bromine pure was properly and efli- ciently applied, only one application was required to arrest it, although three or four days were afterwards necessary for the development of granulations. Another and more important fact was observed, i. c. that the local application of bromine to a gangrenous surface had a direct effect upon the constitutional symptoms, which are immediately lessened in violence, and the constitution rebounded as if relieved of n burden: this was the case with those who had no constitutional treat- ment whatever." The author thinks bromine superior to nitric acid, because " it is not so destructive to living tissue, and can be used where the acid is inad- missible on periosteum, tendons, and vessels, without destroying their integrity. It is of great utility in cases of secondary haemorrhage, where the artery has sloughed; three cases have occurred where arteries were tied in gangrenous sores with complete success, thus enabling us to extenil the rule of Guthrie to these cases—' always tie a bleeding vessel in the wound, if it can be reached at that point'! I have tied the anterior tibial artery upon the face of a gangrenous stump, and arrested the process by the use di bromine, and the patient recovered as well as by a primary operation. The brachial and dorsalis pedis arteries