REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 80 optic lobes, on the other liaud, are the centres for the instinctive move- ments. Destruction of the cerebellum produces no effect beyond a certain weakness, soon recovered from. Probably, therefore, the so- called cerebellum in the frog does not answer to that organ in other animals. By removing all the portions above the medulla oblongata, and separating it from the spinal cord, the following results were arrived at:—(i) The medulla oblongata is the seat of the sense of touch and of pain. (2) It is the source of the instinctive motions—those, e. q., which result from sensations and from the need of breathing. (3) It is the seat of the instinctive demands or instincts, such as respiration, rejection of noxious gases, withdrawal from irritation. In respect to lloureus' punctum vitale, Kenzi found that a transverse section of the medulla behind the point of the calamus did not affect either respira- tion, sight, or intelligence; a section precisely at that point stopped the respiration and caused sudden death; a section above it only caused a cessation of the psychical functions. (3) In respect to birds, of which a great variety were employed for experiment, the excitability and sensibility are, in general, the same as in the previous classes. Renzi agrees with Bouillad, Longet, and Lussana, against Flourens, that when the hemispheres are removed the instincts and sense-perceptions remain with the movements determined by these, and only intelligence is wanting. When only one hemisphere is removed intelligence and instinctive action remain, but there is ex- hibited a certain degree of torpidity; the bird is more disposed to sleep, is more quiet, and less ready to take alarm. It does not lose sense- perce2}tion on the opposite side, as Plourens held, but only the intellec- tual apprehension connected with it. Partial removal of both hemi- spheres confirm Plourens' statement that some intellectual activity re- mains as long as any of the cerebral structure is intact, and that the separate mental powers have not separate localities, but disappear together. Division of the fibres connecting the hemispheres and medulla oblongata has the same effect as their total extirpation. The thalami optici and optic lobes are centres for sight in the crossed direction and also for motion; the former for the voluntary, the latter for the in- stinctive, motions. The cerebellum is the co-ordinator of muscular movements, but it performs this function through an action directed, not to the muscles, but to the senses. The cerebellum is the seat of sensuous attention. A finch in which the anterior portion of the cere- bellum was injured soon recovered from the consequent lesions of motion, and seated itself upon its perch. In this position threatening motions made before its eye, though wide open, did not affect it, until it was aroused by tapping on the cage. Then it fluttered unsteadily, as being frightened when similar movements were made, but relapsed when left at rest. On this view of the functions of the cerebellum Renzi thinks tlie part ascribed to it in the sexual function is explained. The medulla oblongata is a centre for sight and smell, as well as for feeling and hearing. Section at the apex of the calamus, even when not complete, causes sudden death, as also does a section made from i to f of a line in front of it, but here the section must be complete. (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1864, No. 11, p. 151.)