ABNOllMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PELVIS. 375 (4) The special size, compressibility, and extensibility of the interver- tebral cartilage of the lumbo-saeral joint, to which the greater mobility of this part of the spinal column is due, cause the lumbar vertebra, as soon as its articular attachments are lost, to glide do\yn under the weight of the body; and this is always forwards, the direction being determined by the shape of the body, which is higher in front, lower behind; by the normal anterior curvature of the lumbar vertebra, and by the anterior obliquity of the articular surface of the sacrum. (5) In other cases the attachments of the articular processes may be abnor- mally modified. This happens through the formation and defective development of a supernumerary vertebra, whicli may occur in com- bination with a foetal hydrorachis. An incomplete intercalary vertebra forms between the last lumbar and the first sacral vertebrae a wedge, as it were, driven in from behind, which thrusts the lumbar vcrteb.'a forwards. Under this motion the intervertebral cartilage is inordiuarily compressed, and at last its structure destroyed. The complete destruc- tion of the intervertebral cartilage brings the bared surfiices of the bones into contact, whence other changes ensue—e.g. rounding oif of the fore edge of the sacrum; compression of the opposed surfaces of the lumbar vertebra and sacrum; wedging in of the edge of the sacrum into the lower surface of the lumbar vertebra, or synostosis of the joint by means of a more or less complete fusion of the dislocated vertebra with the sacrum. (6) Consequent upon this dislocation there occurs a torsion of the pelvic axis. The plane is thrown more nearly into the vertical direction, and thus is caused the extreme prominence of tlie abdomen and tlie overhanging of the pregnant uterus, which have been remarked in cases of spondylolisthesis. Breslau and Barnes, however, dissent from these conclusions; and the observations of the latter show that the hiatus lumbalis, corresponding closely with the figures given by Lambl as indicating spina bifida, is not uncommon. It occurs fre- quently without displacement or deformity; it certainly is no constant mark of antecedent spina bifida. Again, the intercalary vertebra occurs quite independently of spina bifida; and, lastly, in none of the nume- rous cases of spina bifida examined by the author was there any spon- dylolisthesis or other lumbo-sacral or pelvic deformity. Eokitansky also differs from Lambl, and attributes the spondylolisthesis to primaiy atrophy of the intervertebral cartilage. The author concludes that the cases hitherto recorded are not sufficient to justify any absolute, much less exclusive, theory of the mode of origin of spondylolisthesis. (3) That, reasoning from the known cases of this condition, and from the surgical liistory of dislocation of the vertebrae in the dorsal and cervical regions, it cannot be denied that vertebral dislocation may occur from other than intra-uterine causes. (3) That, admitting the possibility of spondylolisthesis occurring as a consequence of spina bifida, in "the mode Lambl describes, it must also be admitted that it may arise as a consequence of osteomalacic, scrofulous, or inflammatory disease of the bodies of the vertebra), and from direct injury. The history of the cases here collected show the formidable nature of true spondylolisthesis when pregnancy occurs. Of the 12 cases men-