47 GENKUAL SYSTEM. a child ^ith cancrum orsis, with great debility of the stomach, long after the fever had run its course. Looking at the results of this practice beside some of those formerly indicated, and especially looking to the rise in the rate of mortality amongst the young in typhus fever, in pro- portion as there seems reason to believe that the practice has leaned to routine of stimulation, Gairdner confesses he is strongly persuaded that to ilie ijoung in typhus, and very prolahly in most other fevers, stimulants are not less than actively poisonous and destructive unless administered with the most extreme caution, and in the most special critical circum- stances. Had my 189 cases of young persons died at the rate even of those in the Glasgow Fever Hospital in 1861 and 1862, the deaths instead of i, would have been 6 or 7,; at the rate of the London Fever Hospital the mortality would have been nearly 12 ; while in the hands of Dr. Todd, under a routine of such extreme stimulation as is indicated in his book on acute diseases, it seems probable that instead of i death in the 189 cases, there must have been no fewer than 30 to 35. Gairdner adds, that he deprecates the excessive use of stimulants, not on account of their tendency to excite the circulation, but because so given they do not support the strength, but rather poison the system, by loading the blood with material which is inconvertible into blood or tissue, and which arrests or interferes with the vital changes necessary to preserve the balance of waste and supply. He is no advocate of depletion or starvation, on the contrary, the whole aim of his practice in fevers tends to supporting the strength. SpAifioir, D.—Cases of Typhoid and Typhus fever, especially loith reference to the condition of the urine.—Med. T. and Gaz., 1864, May 7, 28 ; June 18. Spanton records the details of 6 cases, 3 of which were typhoid and 2 typhus, and gives in tables the figures denoting the 24 hours' amount of urine, the sp. gr., the solids in 1000 grains, the solids in 24 hours, the urea in 1000 grains, and the urea in 24 hours at various periods of the diseases. He also notices the presence of albumen, the acidity, and the colour. The following conclusions, he says, may be derived from the examination of the urine in the cases related. The water is diminished in amount, and this diminution is most marked during the first week. It varied in each of the cases considerably, depending in some degree on the amount of diarrhoea present. The reaction of the urine in every case was acid. The sp. gr. was high in every case, the highest being 1028. In typhus there was throughout a lower sp. gr. than in the cases of typhoid. During convalescence the sp. gr. lowers. Dr. Parkes says this occurs before there is any marked increase in the quantity of w^ater. The urea in every case during the active stage of the fever was much increased. In case i, the greatest increase was during the second week, in case 2 during the first week. It seems as if the largest amount of urea was present relatively and absolutely, while the fever was most severe (whenever that might be) diftering, of course, in different cases, so that no definite rule as to days can be fixed with regard to it. Simon and other authors afiirm that the urea is diminished in amount, but numerous others state the contrary, and there can be