456 HEl'ORT ON rOUJiNSIC MKU1C1NI5. BLOOD-STAINS. Dr. Kuuse (' Casper's Vjhrschrft.,' 25, p. 262) has made some obaer- vations as to the value of the crystals of hajiniii as a test for blood. He finds that these crystals can never be obtained from a blood-stain nnless the blood-corpuscles still retain their form, so as to be recognised under the microscope. On the other hand, many spots in which the corpuscles are still clearly seen yield no crystals under chemical mani- pulation. The value of this test is therefore very small, except as cor- roborative evidence, and for those who, from want of experience, cannot trust to simple microscopical examination. The usual appearance of the crystals is best compared to that of a hemp-seed, but some also present a curious swallow-tail form at one end. WOtTHDS AND INJURIES. Prof. Tardieu gives in the ' Ann. d'Hyg.' (21, p. 415) a long account of the case of M. Armand, of Montpellier, a trial which excited the greatest interest both in France and in this country. On the 7th July, 1863, Maurice Roux, a servant of M. Armand, was found lying in a cellar in a state of asphyxia, with a cord round his neck and his feet and hands tied. He rapidly recovered, and in less than 3 hours was quite well, except that he was mute, being unable, not only to speak, but even to groan or to produce the slightest sound. The next morning he gave by signs a description of what had occurred. According to this statement, his master, M. Armand, came into the cellar, gave him a blow behind the head, and afterwards strangled him and tied his hands and feet. This took place about 8.30 a.m., that is to say, 11 hours before he was found in the cellar by the servant, who always went down at that time to fetch some wine. M. Tardieu came to the conclusion that this accusation was false, and that M. Eoux had fabricated the whole charge. In forming an opinion as to the truth of the man's statement, it is, of course, of primary importance to ascertain whether the ligatures were so placed that they could not have been applied except by another person. Now, about this there can be no doubt. The cord round the neck encircled that part several times ; according to one of the wit- nesses, as many as 10 times, while others gave 4 or 6 as the number of the turns. It was not fastened in any way. Its position was marked by several sugillations, which were quite recent and superficial and presented no ecchymoses. It is therefore clear that no great force was used in applying it; and the numerous turns and the absence of any knot are much more characteristic of suicide than of homicide. The hands were fastened behind the back. The cord by which this was efiected was wound 10 times round the right wrist, and tied with a knot at each turn. The other hand was encircled by 3 turns of the cord, with but i knot. The portion of the cord between the two hands was of the length of a finger. It is therefore quite possible that Eoux may have himself tied up his hands. The cord round the right wrist