315 TEEPIIINING THE PETEOTJS BONE. remains intact. The author has recently observed an example in a girl of 13, who had suftered from a discharge out of the right ear for 8 days. The outer i^ortion of the upper and posterior wall of the meatus was ulcerated, and the membrana tympani slightly clouded. Suddenly there appeared fever with delirium, then slight sopor, whilst the integument over the mastoid process became swollen, hot, and red. Pressure caused violent pain. Blood was repeatedly drawn by the artificial leech ; mercury and iodide of potassium were administered; the parts were kept perfectly clean. The cerebral symptoms disappeared in 6 days, the noises in the car and deafness in about 3 or 4 weeks; the hearing was not perfect, however, for some months ; the membrana tympani was uninjured. A similar example was seen in a man aged 60. He was said to have been for some days in a partially comatose state; otorrhoea on the left side was stated to have existed for 8 or 10 days. The ear and the parts about the mastoid process were of a dark-red colour, very hot, and extremely painful. The soft parts were incised, and the bone perforated ; a large quantity of pus and small osseous fragments were evacuated. He re- covered perfect consciousness in a few hours; the wound rapidly healed ; the membrana tympani was intact. It appears certain that in such cases the inflammation spreads from the external meatus to the mastoid process, and attacks the spongy tissue only at a later period: the importance of an earl3'' incision is obvious. Rarer, but far more serious, are the cases in whicli secondary disease of the petrous portion appears after extension of the morbid process to the middle ear and usually after destruction of the membrana tympani. The portion of bone over and to the outer side of the tympanum, close to the cranial cavity, is tolerably spongy even in adults, and forms the principal seat of disease. Separated both from the tympanic and cranial cavities by only thin plates of bone, and connected with both spaces by cellular tissue, this spot is above all others liable to become involved in disease of the middle ear, and to induce further extension of the morbid process to the intracranial organs. Abscess may form in the spongy tissue of the petrous bone with or without previous perforation downwards (into the tympanic cavity), and may end fatally with or without perforation into the cranial cavity. Suppurative inflammation on the one side of the bone possesses in the cellular tissue accompanying the vessels and nerves ways enough of passing to the other surface. Purulent periostitis of the orbit is sometimes fatal in two or three days from meningitis. Caries and pre- vious perforation appear, however, to be by no means rare in the car. In both the following cases perforation had taken place into the tympanic cavity, but not into the cranium ; in the first one, the meningitis was probably induced by the transmission of the inflammation along the auditory nerve. Purulent thrombosis probably depends on the passage of decomposing clots, meningitis on simple extension or on perforation, abscess of the brain often on perforation. "Where suppuration has taken place in the interior of the petrous bone, a free aperture outwards for the discharge of pus and fragments of bone will render recovery possible, and thus occasionally save life; tlie objections raised to trepanning cannot under such circumstances be considered of any account. The first con- dition for the operation must be the |)rescnce of symptom;? of suppuration