INFANTICIDE. 4G3 born dead without operative interference, were found completely in- flated with air. This case, it is said, caused Casper to modify somewhat the views which lie held upon this subject. The only explanation which can be given of it is that some one may possibly have practised artifi- cial inflation on the infant while it lay in the dissecting-room, though Hecker himself appears to have rejected this supposition. These diffi- culties have, however, long been known to attend the application of the hydrostatic test; and it may be safely asserted that the modern views do not in any way increase them." The knowledge of the fact that meconium and liquor amnii may enter the foetal air-passages is of importance also because these substances might perhaps be mistaken for faeces and urine if the child were found in a privy or chamber-vessel. Their real nature, however, would readily be made out on careful examination. " Their detection often requires considerable skill and care. Schwartz tells us when he first began to make post-mortem examinations of stillborn children they were noticed but seldom, and only when their quantity was very large. But when his attention was directed to the subject, their presence was found to be almost constant. It is necessary to lay open cautiously the bronchial tubes before washing them; and in doubtful cases he recommends also slitting up the nose, and the careful examination of its chambers, as well as of the palate, pharynx, and buccal cavity. The trachea in its middle and lower part is generally empty or contains but little of these substances, but below its bifurcation they are usually present, and they often extend even into the finest ramifications of the bronchial tubes." Dr. Dohow relates (' Vjhrschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. F., i, p. 123) a case of infanticide which is of some interest. The child was found in a box, among articles of clothing. The mother at first declared that it was born dead, but afterwards confessed that she had strangled it, as it lay under the bed-clothes between her thighs, by pinching its throat with the fingers of her right baud. No marks of injury were, however, found on the neck of the foetus, and therefore it was suggested by the medical men examined that this account was incorrect, and ultimately the mother altered her statement, and admitted that she sat up, drew the child to her, and compressed the neck against the bed-clothing, which, of course, would be less likely to leave traces of violence on the foetal body. The lungs of the child in this case were fully inflated with air ; but, in addition, the left lung presented on its surface about a dozen puncti- form ecchymoses. The air-tubes contained no trace of liquor amnii or of meconium. There was no reason to suppose that intra-uterine respiratory efforts had taken place ; and Uohow regards the ecchymoses as the eff'ects of the slow death by asphyxia. The lungs were, however, not much congested, though the left contained more blood than the right lung. As this case was undoubtedly one of infanticide, it shows (as was, indeed, stated in the article above) that subpleural ecchymoses afibrd only a presumption, and not a proof, that death arose from natural causes. In the 'Year-Book' for 1863 an account was given of some experi- ments of Dr. Liman, which tended to diminish the value of the entrance