407 DISEASES OF THE OVAEIES. Chir. Traus.,' vol. 19, p. 127) that oue of the glandulte Dabothi may be converted into a cyst as large as a waluut, or eveu as a heu's egg, and haug by a slender peduncle, (b) A pedunculated growth of small size (a bean or nut), soft, vascular, and often multiple, consisting of pendulous mucous membrane, and analogous to the mucous polypus of the nares. (c) A growth of finer texture and larger size than the latter (a nut to an egg), more or less pedunculated, and made up of mucous membrane, with a large excess of cellular tissue, {d) A much firmer growtli than any of the preceding, and usually a much larger one, either pedunculated or sessile, its attachment usually passing up into the interior of the uterus—the common fibrous polypus, (e) In rare instances, a form of tumour is developed within the cavity of the uterus which is closely analogous to the recurrent fibroid in other parts. This tumour grows rapidly, assumes a polypoid form, attains a large size, and causes much hsemorrhage. It can scarcely rank with true cancers, because it does not induce enlargements of the lymphatics or secondary deposits ; but it difi'ers from all the forms of simple polypus, in that it persistently grows again after removal. It, like the fibrous polypus, may be attached high up in the cavity of the uterus. Only three examples of this form of polypus are on record. Death occurred in all within seven years after the first appearance of the disease. DISEASES OF THE OTABIES. Mr. Hutchinson, "On Organic Diseases of the Ovary" (Holmes's 'System of Surgery,' vol. 4, 518). Dr. Priestley, " On Menorrhagia depending on Morbid Changes in the Ovaries" ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' i, 1863, pp. 392—445). 1.—The organic diseases of the ovary maybe classified under two groups, the solid and cystic growths : I. T\xe solid growths may be either—(i) Fibroid tumours. These are rare, and are usually small. Dense fibrous tissue first replaces, and is at length wholly substituted for, the normal stroma of the organ. (2) Malignant tumours. The form of cancer most frequent in°the ovary is alveolar or colloid, and tlie tumour thus constituted is cystic rather tlian solid. In rare instances medullary cancer occurs as a primary disease in the ovary, and a very large tumour may be thus developed. Solid pedunculated tumours of the abdomen, whether springing from the ovary or the uterus, and whether believed to be innocent or 7nalignant, should not be interfered with surgically. If innocent, they rarely cause death, and at a certain period of life almost always begin to shrink, wiiilst any attempt to remove them by abdominal section is attended by great danger. II. Cijstic disease of the ovary may occur either as simple or m?«o- liferous cysts, but the two are very closely allied, and the former mav at any time pass into the latter. Simple cysts are probably developed by the dropsical dilatation of Graafian vesicles. They may att-iin a very large size, but the compound cysts have, as n rule, a more active growth, although some have but little tendency to reproduction The