UEPOllT ON SUUOERY. 308 only shreds of it can bo torn from tlie subjacent exudation. Sucli a condition ia the result of irido-cyclitia, as remarked by v. Hasncr. Prof, von Graefe has noticed, in cases of chronic iritis, synecliia annu- laris pass into the form of synechia totalis. In some of these cases there has been no previous collection of fluid behind the iris; in others, the fluid exudation is again absorbed, the characteristic projections of the iris disappear, and the Latter becomes intimately connected with the subjacent layer of pigmented neoplasms. The tissue of the iris appears tightly stretched, and its fibrillation is indistinct; it seems changed in colour, partly owing to a difi'use cloudiness of the aqueous humour and atrophy of the stroma-pigment, principally owing to the continued admixture of red; numerous vessels cau be seen in it ■with the magnifying glass, or even with the unaided eye. Its condition is thus essentially different from that in which iluid is collected behind, where the tissue is au£emic and somewhat of a grayish hue. The whole of its surface is usually pressed forwards, so as to much diminish the anterior chamber ; the projection may he distinguished from that in annular synechia hy its affecting uniformly the whole of the iris, and by the absence of any depression in the region of the pupil. In such cases the iritic process cannot be considered to have ended ; for inflam- matory proliferations continue to take place at the posterior surface for an indefinite period. The treatment is summed up in the following manner :—"In practice every stage will be found between the annular synechia already de- scribed and the present form. Even in respect to the latter, we meet Avith much variety in the condition of the iris, of the subjacent exuda- tions, and of the deeper parts of the eye. In some cases a small peripheral fold may still be seized, and the aperture may be enlarged by the blunt hook at a subsequent operation. In others, a satisfactory result may be gained by the use of straight forceps and repeated opera- tions. Lastly, in the worst cases, the lens must be extracted, and an artificial pupil formed at a later period; it must also be remembered, that in these cases passage of some vitreous through the wound appears to be a condition of success." I*'. Pieber on the treatment of mydriasis by electricity (' Wicn. Med. AVochenschr.,' 1S64, p. 340). F. Horner, foreign bodies in the iris ('Ophth. Eeview,' i, 166). A. Q-raefe and P. Steffan on iridodesis ('Arch, fiir Ophtb.,' ix, 3, p. 199 ; x, i, p. 122). LEKS. A. von Oraefe, in a clinical lecture on cataract ('Ophth. Eeview,' i, 243), discusses the combination of iridectomy Avith flap-extraction (vide 'Year-Book' for 1862, p. 282).—"To sura up what we have said, iridectomy offers no protection against general or partial suppu- ration, but disposes the latter to a more favorable termination; it moreover prevents up to a certain point primary iritis and prolapses of the ins. Hence the general principle that some of the danger following extraction is obviated by iridectomy, and that we therefore should especially perform it iu cases which appear particularly prone