333 EADICAL CURE OF HEllNIA. the two threads across the second piece of bougie, to prevent any injury to the skin by pressure. The patient suffered scarcely any pain, wincing merely a little at each puncture of the needle. He was placed in bed after the operation, with the right thigh elevated slightly on a pillow, a small pledget of wet lint laid over the site of the ring, and a full opiate administered. " May 28th.—Had slept well; in no pain; a faint redness visible about the needle-punctures. May 29th.—Eested easily ; free from pain; and no tenderness whatever on pressure in the abdomen. He says that when he coughs he feels, to use his own phrase, ' quite tight below.' It would be tedious to give the details of this case from day to day. It wiM suffice to say that he went on as favorably as I could wish in every respect, and never had a bad symptom. I removed the bougie on the 7th June, and found that the punctures were slightly ulcerated near the threads, with a blush of redness about them. The site of the external abdominal ring presented a round swelling, the size of a large nut, and was very hard to the touch. This appeared to be formed by the invaginated structures and lymph, thrown out around the parts. The man coughed forcibly without in the least displacing the plug of skin, which was now firmly lodged in its new position— while there was some discharge from the excoriated surface inside the inverted integument. I then laid a compress of lint over the part, and applied a spica bandage. He was thus kept confined to bed until the 20th June, when I allowed him to walk about the ward with the bandage on. June 22nd I tested the result of the operation by making liim cough violently, and jump from a chair to the ground several times; but notwithstanding this exertion not the least protrusion occurred, and the ring appeared permanently sealed up. I put a truss on him with a very light spring, and permitted him to leave the hospital on the 25th June, desiring him to wear it during the day, to avoid any great straining or exertion as much as possible, and to let me see him occasionally. I saw him very recently ; and the disease is, to all appearance, cured. He is able to follow his trade with comfort, and the part feels as strong and unresisting as any other portion of the walls of the abdomen. " I have performed Wutzer's operation for the cure of hernia three times, and have seen Wood's procedure done twice, and, as far as my opinion goes, must give the preference to this of Mr. Syme. I cannot conclude better than by repeating the three advantages it possesses, as stated by that able surgeon:—' ist. That it may be executed by means which are in the possession of every surgeon, instead of the complicated, expensive, and not easily manageable apparatus, hitherto deemed indis- pensable. 2nd. That it may be accomplished with much more certainty through the secure guidance of a finger, than to trusting to a piece of wood, for gaining admission within the tendinous ring. 3rd. That the two threads, co-operating in their effect, render the chance of adhesion between the textures much greater than when it is attempted by the mere puncture of a needle.' " 31. Nilulon on the reduction of voluminous hernias hi/ elastic pressure ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxv, p. 123).—A man was admitted into