362 UEPOUT ON MIDWIFEllY, ETC. is difEcult to explain how impregnation could have occurred. It has been suggested that the semen passed through the urethra and bladder into the uterus. The autlior, liowever, rather inclines to the view that some minute capillary communication might have existed through the OS uteri, or, possibly, along the track of one of the Avire Butures. If this be the true explanation, it is remarkable that an aperture which was so minute as to be quite uudiscoverablo by repeated examination, and through whicli no urine or menstrual fluid ever escaped, should have sufliced for the purpose of impregnation. 3.—Prof. Scauzoni relates the case of a woman set. ap, 4 months pregnant, although the orifice of the vagina was closed by a firm and tense membrane, in which an aperture, barely large enough to admit a probe, was discovered Avith much difficulty. The distance from this membrane (tlie hymen) up to the os uteri was about 4 inches. Im- missio-penis Avas quite impossible, as the membrane only yielded A'ery slightly. The opening enlarged during pregnancy, and the membrane lost somewhat of its tension and firmness. As labour progressed one finger could be passed through the opening, but, the density of the membrane preventing the passage of the head, a crucial incision was required to complete delivery. Scanzoni had never before met with a similar instance, and gives no opinion as to how impregnation could have been efli'ected. M. Mattel ('L'Union Med.,' No. 36) relates a similar case of a woman who became pregnant after having been married 11 years. On examination a cul-de-sac was found, Avhich, probably formed through the attempts at copulation, only admitted the finger to the extent of i-i- centimetre. The most careful examination by means of a speculum could not detect the aperture by Avhich the semen must have entered. After severe labour for three days the structures in front of the head gave way, and admitted the finger. Delivery Avas completed by the forceps. 3.—Dr. Eouth points out some of the difficulties in the diagnosis between pregnancy and fibrous tumours of the uterus, and relates cases of great interest bearing on the subject. The breasts have been found to be enlarged in cases of fibrous tumour, and even hypertrophied, and this not only from adipose deposit, but from enlargement of the lacteal vessels. The areola has been marked, and even cedematous; the fol- licles enlarged ; and on pressure a fluid Avhich, under the microscope, showed all the characters of colostrum, has been obtained. Add to this there is occasionally a pseudo-hallotiemcnt felt, Avhich the author has detected in tAVO cases. I. The points of diagnosis in the condition of the breasts are— (i) Their appearance is unsymmetrical. This is rare in pregnancy, but very common in fibroid and ovarian disease. There may be seA cral follicles on one breast, on the other none or only one or two. The sizes of the follicles difler also on both sides, (a) The follicles are of the same colour as the areola, and do not become white on being tightened. (3) True vesicular or pnpuloid follicles, i. c. white follicles, separate or clustered, are never found in a pure case of fibroid tmnour, but are common in i)regnancy. (4) The follicles of the same colour as