442 hepoet on toxicology and matkuia medica. the dose administered is tlms obtained. He tliinks that the vomit- ing caused by digitaline dilTers in its nature from that produced by other emetic substances. The action of the stomach is not, he says, the principal thing, but is only the sequel of a series of convulsive con- tractions, wliich commence in the limbs and abdomen, and are followed by violent expiratory efforts on tlie part of the ribs. The matters vomited consist of bile and mucus stained with blood, in addition to the contents of the stomach. There are also pauses between the different attacks of vomiting, during which the animal appears well. So also, when, death does not result from the administration of the poison, recovery is rapid. In some cases digitaline acts upon the intes- tinal canal; the animal then passes per anum, after most violent strain- ing, a greenish glairy fluid, often stained with blood. M. Faure could never detect a primary action of digitaline upon the heart. Imme- diately after the vomiting its pulsations are accelerated, in the inter- vals they may be reduced; but it is necessary to guard against attach- ing too much importance to these changes. As Quevenne said, " Dogs are so impressible that looking at them is sufficient to excite the heart's action." The condition of the heart after death also usually presents nothing peculiar. In one experiment, in which the chest was opened immediately after cessation of the heart's action, a slight ware was seen to traverse the organ from apex to base. The ventricles in this case contained liquid blood. In other instances fibrinous clots have been found in the heart's cavities. Among the other effects of the poison noticed by M. Faure are dilatation of the pupils, and violent horripilation over the whole body. In many of these experiments the poison was applied endermically to the back of the neck. The vomit- ing was then equally severe, and the fatal result was more certain than when it was given by mouth. M. Faure remarks on the difficulty of detecting the administration of digitaline if it should be applied to an ulcer or to a blistered surface. Solanacece. Atropine.—A case of poisoning by this alkaloid is recorded in the ' Lancet,' 1864, i, p. 8. The subject of it was a child 4 years old, who swallowed about 3 drachms of a solution containing 2 grains to the ounce. Among the symptoms recorded was a sort of tetanic spasm of the legs. The case terminated in recovery. Dr. Hohl relates a case of poisoning by atropine ('De atropini effect.. Diss, inaug. Halis Sax.,' 1863; 'Schmidt,' 123, p. 165), which is remarkable, not only on account of recovery occurring after so large a dose, but also because of the remote effects, which showed themselves some weeks after the poison was swallowed, and, perhaps, owed their origin to it. A woman, £et. 28, received atropine instead of caffein by mistake on the part of a chemist, and took about noon a powder con- taining 2 grains of that alkaloid. Tho symptoms, which appeared- almost at once, were of the usual kind, and reached a pitch of great severity, in spite of au emetic, which was given within an hour and a half, It was 6 days before the effects of the poiBon completely sub^