llEPORT ON SUnr.ERY. 32S p. 147, &c.). E. M'Doimell, laceration of the lungs without fracture of the ribs ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxviii, p, 205). F. 11. llamil- ton on gunshot injuries ('Amer. Med. Tira.,'i 864, i, 109, &c.). D. Giraud, case of sudden death after thoracentesis ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 322). W. Eoser on the treatment of fistula after empyema (' Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 84). ABDOMEN. M. Boinet on the treatment of hydatid cysts of the liver (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, pp. 84, 97).—After refcrriug to incision of the cyst and Ee- camicr'a method, the author discusses the value of puncture with a very fine trocar. Although a case thus treated by M. Moissenet soon ter- minated fatally, the author does not consider this little operation dangerous per se, "for out of 48 capillary punctures in 14 cases of cyst of the liver, none was followed immediately by any accident." On the other hand, it by no means always succeeds, and in many cases it excites suppuration. The first case successfully treated by this means was published by Martinet in 1825 ; a patient of Lenoir's recovered after 10 punctures; one of Eobert's after a single exploratory punc- ture ; MM. Legroux, Laugier, Velpeau, Vigla, Demarquay, have each had a successful case. The examples in which it fails are still more numerous; such have been observed by MM. Aran, Demarquay, Mal- gaigne, &c. The author has seen several cases, where, after the evacuation of acephalocysts, the fluid, clear and limpid as spring water, was reproduced, even after repeated jiunctures. He is in- clined to believe that the puncture may answer when the cyst is single ; but that when it contains numerous hydatid vesicles, the latter continue to live, the liquid reforms, and a cure does not ensue. Hence if after several capillary punctures the cyst refills, we may diagnose the existence of a number of hydatids; if the liquid and hydatids become purulent, the latter must be promptly removed, or the patient will perish. The indication is to form a large aperture, which will allow the immediate evacuation of the whole contents of the cyst. The following case will show the method followed by Dr. Boinet. In a girl, about eight and a half years old, there were the characteristic symptoms of a large cyst of the liver. Dr. Boinet recommended a trial of capillary punctures which sometimes cause a radical cure, the punc- tures to be repeated so long as the fluid should continue limpid; to have recourse to puncture followed by an iodine injection, if the fluid should become clouded, yellowish, or purulent, after the first, second, third, &c., puncture; finally, if such fluid was rapidly re-formed after the iodine injection, to open the cyst freely, and to continue the iodine injections. The sac was first punctured on the 9th August; there escaped about 1400 grammes of limpid fluid, which did not coagulate when heated. Three days afterwards the little patient appeared per- fectly well, but ten or twelve days later the tumour was evidently re- forming and suppurating; the appetite was lost, in the evening slie was feverish, there were night-sweats, emaciation, &c. Dr. Boinet accord- ingly on the 25th August made a puncture with a trocar larger than an exploratory but less than a hydrocele trocar, and then injected a solution