REPOlfT ON TOXICOLOfiY AND MATERIA MEDICA. Eiicliner, on tlie other liand, prefers purifying sulpliuric acid by pass- ing a stream of liydroelilorie acid gas into the liot liquid wliich converts the arseuioua acid into the volatile chloride of arsenic. If arsenic acid be ^present it is necessary to reduce it to arsenious acid before acting on it with the gas. Bloxam, as well as Bussy and Buignet, have sliown that without taking tliis precaution the stream of hydrochloric acid gas does not always purify the sulphuric acid completely from all traces of arsenic. • M. Blondlot (' Comp. Eeud.,' 58, p. 769), while admitting the full importance of these observations, criticises the method recommended for the conversion of the arsenious acid into arsenic acid. He remarks that it is of the utmost importance for toxicological purposes that no trace of the nitrous compound should remain in the sulphuric acid. On the other hand, if the sulphate of ammonia, Avhich is employed to remove the nitrous compound, be added in excess, it will reconvert the arsenic acid to the state of arsenious acid. These evils may be avoided by the use of a fixed substance as the oxidizing agent to convert the arsenious acid into arsenic acid in the first instance. Mr. Blondlot finds that the peroxide of manganese effects this in a complete manner. MM. Bussy and Buignet (' Journ. de Phar. et de Chim.,' 45, p. 465) assert that M. Blondlot's objection to the use of sulphate of ammonia is without foundation in fact. Tliey find by experiment that the salt, even when added in larger quantities than is necessary, does not con- vert the higher oxide of arsenic to the lower. Arsenic-eating.—Dr. Maclagan, while in St^'ria, made some inquiries as to the reputed habit of eating arsenic in that country. The facts which he and Dr. Eutter, who accompanied him, ascertained are detailed in the 'Ed. Med. Jour.,' Sept., 1864, p. 200. They seem to prove conclusively that the practice exists, and that persons who are accustomed to it can take quantities of arsenic which are always re- garded in this country as poisonous. Dr. Maclagan saw a young man, named Matthias H. Schober, who said that he had been in the habit of taking orpiment for a year and a half. He began by swallowing rather less than a grain every fortnight; he never exjjerienced any ill effects from it, and he now took it twice a week. If he could not get it he felt a longing for it, which was relieved by the repetition of the usual dose. As he said that he took orj^iment rather than white arsenic only because it was obtained more easily, they offered him some arsenious acid ; he chose a piece such as he was in the habit of taking ; this was weighed, and found to be nearly 5 grains. It was then pow- dered, placed on a piece of white bread, and put into liis mouth. He chewed it and swallowed it, swallowing also another piece of bread immediately afterwards. Two hours later he passed some urine in the presence of Dr. Maclagan, which was brought to this country, analysed, and found to contain arsenic. Some urine passed 24 hours later also gave distinct endence of the presence of that substance. Another man, who said that he had taken arsenic for 15 years, and who had the day before twice publicly eaten some of the sulphuret, swallowed about 6 grains of arsenious acid in the presence of Dr. Maclagan, taking a con- siderable quantity of water after it. He said that he was in the habit