87 NERVOUS SYSTEM. the cerebellum. It is further important to determine wliether the loss of tlie co-ordinative faculty can exist quite independent of all derange- ment of sensation of the skin or muscles. That the muscular sensi- bility has an influence in the production of ataxia is proved by the ex- periments of Longet and Bernard, which prove that the movements immediately lose their harmony as soon as the sensory cutaneous nerves, or still more as soon as all the posterior roots, containing also the sensory muscular fibres, are divided. From this it must be con- cluded that in all cases of tabes in which the posterior roots along with the posterior columns are involved in the atrophy, and where, therefore, sensation must be more or less interfered with, the " ataxia " is to be regarded as the result of this an£esthesia. The case appears to be diS'erent in those instances where either the muscular or cutaneous sensibility remain perfect, or where their impairment is insignificant in comparison to the amount of " ataxia." In these cases it may either be supposed that the atrophic posterior columns together with their sensory function possess also a more direct relation to the co-ordination of movements, or that besides the cutaneous and muscular sensations tliere are also impressions conveyed from the joints, ligaments, and bones, which may be abnormal and give rise to the motor disorder. It is certainly remarkable that in hysteria, in spite of the intense dis- turbance of the cutaneous and muscular sensibility, the movements are never un-coordinated. The impairment of general sensibility explains also why the subjects of tabes are not much aided in their movements by the use of sight, while the mere loss of muscular sensibility is com- pletely supplied thereby. The common combination of anaesthesia with peripheral radiating pains proves still further the sensitive func- tion of the posterior columns. The disorder seems to have a connection with the period of sexual activity both in the male and female. No reason can be assigned Avhy the posterior columns are so much oftener affected than the anterior and lateral, or than the whole thickness of the medulla. The disease can scarcely be confounded with any other affection of the cord, and not readily with those of the cerebellum, as the "ataxia" is the only symptom comiuon to both. Barwinkel (the reporter of the paper), while approving in general of the writei''s views, states tliat they do not explain those cases in while the posterior columns are found quite normal. With regard to these, he suggests that not only the afl'creut nerves, but also the efferent motor, are concerned in harmonic movements, andthat the latter may be morbidly changed while theposterior columns remain quite normal. Besides, it is by no means improbable that the process of performing combined movements in walking, stand- ing, and many other actions which have become habitual, is by no means dependent on sensations of which we become conscious, but is produced in a purely reflex manner by nerves which proceed from the muscles, the joints, and the skin, and convey impressions to the centres of co-ordination. "When the latter fibres are diseased conscious sensa- tion may remain normal and yet the posterior columns may be atrophied, Barwinkel recently observed a case where, shortly before death, the sensibility at least of the skin was not only preserved, but was even excessive, so that mere contdpt was painful. The patient had had tubes