CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 177 patches may arise independentl3^ He states that we must not expect to find the parasite when the hairs have all come out, but when the disease is advancing and attacking fresh hairs. The best treatment consists in blistering the affected patches. J. EussELL, M.D.—Cases of Pemphigiis apparently originating in disease of the Outaneoics Nerves. Med. Tim. and Gaz., October 29. Eussell notices—as leading features of his cases—the nature of the disease itself, vascular determination followed by effusion of fibrinous fluid ; the occurrence of the malady in distinct paroxysms ; the sequence observed in the phenomena, marked nervous disturbance in the par- ticular spot about to become the seat of the eruption taking the lead, and remaining limited to the spot; and in the second case the presence of a cause operating directly upon the nervous system through the mind; finally, in the first and most characteristic case, in which the disease was almost united to the constitution, a remarkable tendency to perspiration and habitual turgescence of face. In herpes zoster and probably urticaria, the phenomena are very similar in nature. ' DuciiicsN-E-DuPAEC. — On the treatment of Prurigo. Edinb. Med, Journ., Aug. J. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq. Prurigo is not a disease which directly compromises the existence, but its obstinacy, its tendency to relapse, and the insupportable annoyance it occasions, render it one which causes much trouble and anxiety to the practitioner. Prurigo especially affects the nervous and the suffer- ing. It has been supposed to be contagious, but this is certainly not the case ; it may be complicated with itch, but, when simple, no acarus or any other animalcule is present. What distinguishes the two diseases further is that the anatomical character of prurigo is the papule, of itch the vesicle. Sometimes, no doubt, the diagnosis may be diificult.' Thus in chronic prurigo some papules may present at their summit a small vesicle, and, on the other hand, the vesicles of itch may rest upon a papu- hforni induration ; but even here the doubt should not be frequent and should not last long, both because such cases are rare and, besides' the papules of prurigo occupy the bade of the limbs and the posterior surface ot the trunk, just the contrary of what is noticed in itch. The pruritus again, affords light to the practitioner who is in doubt This is the essential symptom of prurigo, and is much more marked and persistent than that which is met with in itch. Besides, the small lamellated crusts which follow the vesicles of scabies could not be confounded with the black concretions formed in prurigo by drops of dried-up blood, ihe violent itching of prurigo may be simulated around the anus by ascarides in the rectum, by hemorrhoids, by slight inflammation of the rectum, and m the case of the genital organs by pediculi pubis or eczema of the scrotum or vulva. In a practical point of view, there are only three iorms of prungo-the recent, the chronic, and that which was called by Gilbert the latent, where papules cannot be seen by the naked eve /f prurigo IS recent the antiphlogistic treatment affords the best results It the subject 13 young, sanguine, and plethoric, and if the eruntion occupies large surfaces, Duparc commences by bleeding at the arm or 12 1