llEPOUT OX I'llACriCAL MEDICINK. 100 oouduction of tbe nervous influence, and also no special pheuomeuu, Buch as spasmodic contractions, &c., provided only that the limb remains quiet, and is so placed that tlie nerve is not subjcfted to tension. Schuh has often observed this in the median, ulnar, and radial nerves in the forearm after accidental injuries. If, on the contrary, the wounded nervous cord, from its position or any other cir- cumstance, is rendered more or less tense, pain and spasmodic con- tractions are produced. If a purely sensory nerve is cut across, and the ends are not separated by movements of the limb, sensation is restored again in a few days. In the case of motor and compound nerves the motor disorder lasts much longer, and may even be per- manent. Facial paralysis induced by division of the " plexus anserinus" in the vicinity of the ear lasts for at least 3 months. If all the filaments are divided, so that the orbic. palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii are paralysed, the distortion sometimes persists for the remainder of life. Motor nerves require for the exercise of their function a much greater perfection of structure than sensory, and the restoration of the integrity of the nerve is less easily effected. Schuh has not yet found the peripheral end of a resected nerve in a state of atrophy ; in some observations, he says, weeks or mouths had elapsed after the operation without any such alteration having ensued. Nervous anastomoses are a second cause of the speedy return of sensation in cases of resection; a third is the advancing growth of adjacent nerves into the paralysed district, a process which goes on often with surprising rapidity. COEKIL, V.—On the alterations tvMcJi ensue in Nerves and Muscles in cases of Semiplegic Contracture. Gaz. de Paris, 11,1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 165. Cornil has examined in 6 cases of hemiplegia occurring after softening of the brain, and in i consecutive to apoplexy, the nerves and muscles of the permanently conti-acted limb, and has constantly found the fol- lowing alterations, which were most marked in the median nerve. The whole nerve was enlarged so as to be even twice the size of the healthy one; and the increase in size depended on hypertrophy of the areolar tissue surrounding and between the primitive fasciculi, while the nerve- fibres themselves were perfectly normal. The terminations of the sensory nerves in the skin were also normal. Morbid changes were found in the nervous centres, in the corp. striata, thalami optici, crura cerebri, and pons of the same side, and the pyramid of the op- posite, consisting in atrophy and fatty degeneration, and the presence of numerous glomeruli. The contracted muscles had lost their lively red colour, appeared yellowish or brownish, and were atrophied. True fatty degeneration was rarely found, but there were numerous molecular granules in the tissue, which dissolved in acetic acid and soda, and the nuclei of the sarcolemma were proliferating. The cerebral affection was from I to several years old. In 4 cases the contracture affected only the most distal parts of the limb, in the other it extended further in the direction of the trunk. In all but one case the cutaneous sensibility was normal in all respects, and reflex movements were produced wiien it was tested. The contracted limbs were always atrophied, especially