REPORT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. deodorize it, to remove the sordea wliicli accumulate so easily in it, and to apply to its Riirface a great numl)erof beneficial medicinal substances, so as to prevent acute aftections from extending, and to incline them towards a speedy recovery; to stop hajmorrhages, allay irritations, and subdue in a remarkable manner chronic aftections of the Sclineidcrian membrane, so as to re establisli a perfectly healthy surface and normal condition of the organ of smell. The apparatus (which is constructed by AVeiss) essentially consists of a glass vessel to hold the fluid, a stop-cock, a pipe, and a nozzle accurately fitting the nostril of the patient. The solutions which Thudichum recommends are those of jihosphate of soda, phosphate of ammonia, common salt, soda, and per- manganate of potash, the latter in the proportion of gr. i—x in Oj of water. Besides these the following are prescribed, when a more potent therapeutic action is desired, viz., solutions of alum 333 ad Aq. Oij, of sul- phate of zinc gr. 20—6o+Sodse Sulph. 5'^—sji oi' sulphate of copper in same proportion, of Plumbi Acetas 5j—i.j + Soda3 Acetas —\] ad Aq. Oij, of Arg. Nitras gr. 16—32 + Sod. Nitras 5iv—3j ad Aq.Oij, of Hyd. Bichl. gr. v + Sod. Chlorid. 5] ad Aq. Oij, of Acidi Hydrocy. dil. V\4.o, of Tt. Opii ii\^i2o ad Aq. Oij; as styphes, ice-cold water, or the same with the addition of Tt. Eerri Mur. 5ij ad Aq. Oij ; as a stimulant, giv of Eau de Cologne ad Aq. Oij -f- Sod. Chlorid. jij, black wash, and yellow wash. Some useful remarks are added on the consti- tutional treatment of diseases of the cavity of the nose. Hide Salter.—Lancet, Jan. 23. States his experience with regard to the use of Pot. lod. in asthma to be that in some, comparatively few, cases it achieves great succes^;. It is often some time, perhaps a fortnight, before it begins to take efilect. It is not only in gouty or rheumatic gouty conditions that it proves beneficial, nor in those where chronic bronchitis coexists with the asthma. Smith, E., M.D.—Dietari/ in disease. Mnaciation. Lancet, Aprd 16. Emaciation is present in a majority of the cases of asthma. In the treatment of this affection it is of prime importance to keep the quantity of the blood as uniform as possible, and to prevent those con- siderable variations which occur in health when a large meal follows a long fast. The deficient respiration also tends to lower the amount of the vitnl transformations below the healthy standard, and hence indi- gestion is as common a feature as emaciation. The two leading prin- ciples in the treatment of such a case are to supply very small quantities of food at a time, and to render the dietary highly nitrogenous. In no case of confirmed asthma should more than 6oz. of fluid and solid food be given to a female and 8 oz. to a male at one time. It is therefore necessary to administer food frequently, viz., at least 6 times in the 24 hours. Two supplies should be given during the night and ui the early morning, when the attacks of dyspuaja cause wakefulness and distress. The others may be given at intervals of from 2 to 4 hours during the day. In the selection of food it is important to avoid much bread or other starchy material, and to supply milk and beef tea largely.