REPOllT ON SUIIGEIIV. with spirit lotion, together with all the bed-clothes where the fluid ha; soaked through them, were found constantly tinged of a greenish-blu, colour, having very much the apiJcarancc of mouldy cheese, whilst th spirit and water used, after a little time became equally greenish blu from having the cloths frequently wrung out in the vessel containing th dilute spirit, which was made by mixing gin with about four or five time the quantity of spring water. This peculiar colour gave me no alarm.. for at first I was disposed to consider it as the natural mouldiness occau sioned by the presence of microscopic fungi vegetating in tlie organic matters of the discharges ; and I ordered some of the fluid to be savec for microscopic examination, fully anticipating that I should discove: the^e minute plants without any diflUcultj'. But to my very great sun prise, T found no such organisms apparent, even with the higher powerf' of the instrument; whilst on repose, the bottle being full and corked, tht blue colour disappeared in the course of a few hours. However, upoi again taking out the cork, and exposing to the air for a short time, tht' blue colour was again developed, chiefly at the surface of the fluid. Thie^ experiment clearly proved that the phenomenon was due to some che-- mical action of oxygen upon a colourless material analogous to indigo in its deoxidized condition. So upon treating the blue liquid with a solution , of hypochlorite of lime or soda, the colour was immediately discharged a.=- certainly as if indigo itself had been acted upon. When treated with an ammoniacal solution of acetate of lead, the whole colouring matter was- precipitated in combination with the lead. And, if filtered through paper, although some of the blue pigment was retained in the meshes of the paper, some passed through from the ver}' fine state of molecular divi- sion in which the substance was ; a further deposit took place after a time in the filtrate in consequence of the oxidation it had undergone from being so freely exposed to the action of oxygen during the process of fil- tration. By repeating this operation several times, sufficient material was obtained to furnish other evidence of the presence of indigo blue, namely, by its solubility in hot alkalies, when deoxidized by sugar or protoxide of iron, and the volatihzation of the pigment and crystallization of the sub- stance when submitted to cautious sublimation. It is much to be re- gretted that the true nature of this substance was only discovered upon the eve of its disappearance, or a much larger supply could have befen readily obtained. On changing the remedial measures to poultices, which became necessaiy in consequence of the formation of numerous abscesses along the course of the saphjena vein, and in the ham, and upon the dorsum of the foot and around the ankle, the feet assumed the ordinary appearances, and the blue colouring matter was no longer found to de- velope itself; this might have been either from its having ceased to be formed, or from the poultices preventin.g that constant oxidation which was so essential for the production of the blue colour from the originally colourless base." Soon afterwards the limb was amputated. Dr. Hildwein, case of abscess rajiidly healed after injectio)! of perman- ganate of potash ('WIeu. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 147)." Case of purulent diathesis ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 5.38). F. Innhauser, psoas abscess cured by animal baths ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, pp. 168, 180).