REPOllT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 146 on the steruuui, at a spot correspoudiug to the seat of pain, with opium, chloric ctlier, and ipecacuaiilia, internally, jiroved eflectual remedies. After observing that the dysphagia cannot be of faucial or pharyngeal origin, Salter states that it is clear, from the issue of the cases, that the pain is not due to any of the graver causes of oesophageal dysphagia—ulcer, stricture, aneurism ; they get well completely and quickly. Besides, there is a complete absence of the essential symp- toms of any of these aiiectious ; and that the pain is not due to oesophageal dysphagia of any kind is shown by the time at which it occurs—viz., at the very moment of faucial deglutition, at the commence- ment of tbe act, before the bolus of food has fairly become engaged in the pharynx, still less in the oesophagus. By the time oesophageal deglutition has commenced the height of the pain is over. Against , the hypothesis that the pain depends on a rheumatic state of some of the muscles concerned in deglutition, Salter objects that in these cases no symptoms of rheumatism were present, and the seat of the pain was not that of muscles undergoing contraction at the time. If it be said that pain is felt in muscles that are stretched as well as those that are contracting if in a rheumatic state, that when the larynx is drawn upwards the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid must be on the stretch, and that the pain may be due to a rheumatic condition of their sternal attacbments—Salter replies that the identity of the pain with that produced by coughing, its association with and proportion to the i other bronchial symptoms, and its seat being in some cases far too low i for the sternal attachment of the depressions of the hyoid bone, prove ! that it cannot be rheumatic. The symptoms all point to the view that j the pain is dependent on catarrhal inflammation, and in some cases ' ulceration of the lining membrane of the windpipe. Every symptom tbat such a state would imply is present, and no symptom that such a state would involve is wanting ; the preliminary cold, never absent in any case that I have seen, the croupy cough and croupy voice, the sternal soreness, the mucous secretion, the points of blood in the expectorated mucus, the tenderness on pressure over the windpipe, the mitigation of the dysphagia on the appearance of the secretion, and its final departure with that of the other symptoms of the respii'atory affection. The explanation of how the pain on swallowing is produced ia as follows:—Every time we swallow, the upper extremity of the windpipe is drawn up ; but the lower is fixed at the roots of the lungs, and is unmoved by deglutition. Every time, therefore, that we swallow, the windpipe is stretched. In the healthy condition of the parts this gives rise to no sensation; but as soon as the lining membrane is inflamed pain results. That this stretching of the windpipe is the cause of the pain is shown by every circumstance of the case, especially by that experimentum crucis—the regulation of the pain by the position of the chin. The muscles that draw the larynx forwards and upwards in swallowing, the genio-hyoid, the mylo-hyoid, and the anterior belly of the digastricus, produce most effect when the chin and jaw are raised, and vice versa. Thus we see that, while swallowing with the head in the ordinary position may be attended with moderate pain, the elevation of the chin causes the pain to be intense, while depression