95 NERVOUS SYSTEM. I ounces of liquid withdrawn, milky, and of tlie consistence of weak gum water No untoward symptom occurred ; the head did not again enlart^e. At the end of August, 1862, the soft parts forming the vault were still depressed. During 1863 the scalp became more and more firm. June 8th, 1864.—The child is now 3 years old, strong, and well nourished. The head measures circularly 23^ inches, and laterally 33 inches. The whole of the vault is firm. The mental faculties are in no way impaired; on the contrary, the child is quick and intelligent for its age. The teeth are all present. The exact situation of tho liquid could not with certainty he determined. It was thought to be iu tlie arachnoid. The history of the case—the occurrence at first of a circumscribed swelling, becoming gradually diff"used, and finally followed by enlargement of the whole head—pointed to this supposition. The first operation must have excited some inflammation, which rnorbid process, producing a liquid of greater consistence than that previously present, may have mechanically prevented the exudation of more liquid, or, by exercising a certain amount of pressure, caused that which was left to be absorbed. Leaeed, a.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., June 30th. Eecords a case of cerebral disease, apparently tubercular meningitis, which was successfully treated by Pot. lod., gr. v., 6tis vel ^tis horis, with frequent painting of the shaved scalp with Tr. lod. co. The symptoms commenced on April 9th. The next morning he had a convulsive fit. Several of these recurred—more than 6—up to April 19th, when the iodide was commenced. The fits gradually diminished, and he was convalescent by May ist. His intellect was quite unimpaired. The patient was a delicate boy, set. 14, long subject to glandular swellings in the neck. Db. James Jones.—Med. Tim. and Graz., March 5th. I . Advocates the administration of bromide of potassium in cases of • infantile convulsions characterised by hypersesthesia of the nerve- centres, coupled with anaemia and complete absence of all symptoms of : inflammation. The child has an aspect of timidity and an expression of anxiety, talks or mutters in his sleep, often starts up frightened. The urine is pale and copious, the tongue clean, the pulse weak and irregular; the fontanelle, if existing, is always depressed. Depletory ,1 measures are injurious; opium is often of great service. The bromide i seems to act as a direct sedative, either to the cerebro-spinal centres : or to the vaso-motor nerves, probably to both. Dn. BEnREUl).—Lancet, May 28th. Eecommends bromide of potassium in gr. 2 5 doses ter die as a valu- able remedy in the treatment of insomnia and restlessness, accompanied by or dependent upon nervous excitement and irritability. It does not produce the unpleasant effects of opium or auy of its preparations, and the system does not so rapidly become accustomed to it as to require its administration in constantly iucreasing doses. The only ill result Behrend has witnessed from its use has been slight but temporary headache; no paralysis or weakening of sexual desire and power have been observed.