134 HBPOHT ON PRACTICAL IfEDICINE. Dn. H. GiiKENHOw.—Med. Tim. and Qaz., Feb. 20. Greenhow states that in cases of passive flux from tlie bronchial mem- brane, when expectorants cease to bo useful, he has used with much success tincture of larch, lie gives ni^xx—xxx with nitro-muriatic acid and tinct. of gentian. Its ellect as a remedy is to lessen gradually the amount of expectoration and with it the cougli and dyspnoea. Report of the Vienna Hospital for i860, '61, '62. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 123, p. 245. The view taken is that all cases of emphysema are not of the same kind, either pathologically or .ttiologically considered. AVhen the emijhyi^ema is partial, and has its seat, as is tiien usually the case, along the borders and at tlie apices of the lungs, is attended with some other lung affec tion, or has preceded it, the morbid alterations may have been principally induced by mechanical force, without any preceding disease of the lungs. It is otherwise in the dangerous lobar emphysema. The stealthy way in which this comes on, the almost entire absence of cough and of all other symptoms except the gradually increasing dyspnoea, and the tightness in the chest of which,the patients complain, the occasional ra- pidity with which the disease advances, the secondary consequences, and the general atrophy which not unfrequently ensues, all point to the grave character of the disorder, and to its constitutional origin from a degene- ration of the pnlmonary tissue, without our being able exactly to say whether this begins as a disease of the capillary vessel." or of the base- ment membrane and the ela.'^tic fibres. In this, as in the ca.«e of other diseases, we may derive important indications from the way in which it is influenced by remedial agents. Setting aside the bronchial and asthmatic symptoms, the chief pi'inciples according to which emphysema is to be treated are quite the same as guide us in the management of other degenerative diseases, as Bright's disease and fiitty degeneration of the heart. A persevering constitutional treatment, and especially the administration of iron, is productive of great advantage. D^Lioux DE SATiGifAC.—On the comparative efficacy of Musk and Acetate of Ammonia in the treatment of cases of severe Fneumonia tvith delirium. Bullet, gencr. de Th^rap., July 30, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. Delioux specifies opium, musk, and acetate of ammonia, as the most useful medicines in the treatment of those low forms of pneumonia which have been called typhoid, malignant, ataxic, or are accompanied with delirium. The physiological action of acetate of ammonia is not identical with that of musk, but is very like it in several respects. Both are antispasmodics, moderators of the nervous perturbation, regu- lators of the nervous influx, and, as they might be called, auti-ataxics. But musk at the same time sustains, and even stimulates, the nutritive organic actions, while acetate of ammonia lowers the circulation, and probably acts besides on the blood by attenuating its fibrin, as all the ammoniacal preparations do, and induces a proportionate degree of debility. Delioux states that since he has been in Provence, where diseases are often complicated with nervous symptoms, and wliere he