393 FLEXIONS AND VERSIONS OF THE UTERUS. the abdominal walls." And he accounts for many of the fatal cases occurring after the ordinary practice of a smallmcision by the contractions of the uterus forcing part of the retained inspissated fluid back through the Fallopian tubes into the abdominal cavity, and so setting up peritonitis. In all such and similar operations Dr. Clay's plan of giving ox gall for several days before the operation should be adopted, and the patient previously strengthened with a course of steel. In cases of araenorrhoea following metritis, the author finds the best results from the application of nitrate of silver to the cervical mucous membrane. All intra-uterine injections, with the single exception of that mentioned above, the author strongly condemns. DTSJIEIs'ORRHCEA. Dr. Coglan, " On Dysmeuorrhoea and Sterility" (' Med. Times,' vol. 2, 1864, p. 87). Dr. Corlieu, " On the Employment of Apiol in Amenorrhoea and Dys- menorrhcea" ('Gaz. des Hop.'). 1. —Dr. Coglan deprecates the incision of the os and cervix uteri in all cases where a bougie will pass. Dilatation by the sea-tangle-tents or by the compressed pine-wood, will in many cases, in his opinion, effect a cure. The cases in which incision is most valuable are those in which the OS and cervix are hypertrophied, the cavity of the cervix is obliterated, or the cervical canal is greatly contracted. 2. —Dr. Corlieu has emplo^-ed apiol (the active principle of parsley) with success in some cases of amenorrhoea and dysmeuorrhoea dependent on functional derangement of the nervous system. On the other hand, it is contra-indicated in all cases where there is organic disease, or plethora, or anasmia existing, until these latter con- ditions have been rectified. The principal conditions for success in its use seems to be that the pain should be due to derangement of the vaso-motor innervation of the plexus, and that the time chosen for its administration shall correspond to a menstrual pe- riod. If the period has not been calculated, it may often be dis- covered by noticing the sympathetic derangements incidental to the time. Apiol does not relieve the nervous pains seated in branches of the lumbo- sacral nerves, and especially in the uterus, which appear or become inten- sified at the menstrual period, and may simulate dysmenorrhcea proper. FLEXIONS A'ND VERSIONS OF THE UTERUS. Dr. Priestlev, "On Flexions and Versions of the Unimpregnated Uterus" ('Med.'Times,' i, 1864, p. 501). Mr. B.Brown, " On Retroflexion of the Uterus" ('Lancet,' 2, 1864, P- 174)- Dr. Priestley confirms tlie views held by Kigby and others, that the painful symptoms seen in some cases of retroflexion are rather due to a morbid condition of one or both ovaries, associated with displacement, than to the displacement itself or to displacement combined with some morbid condition of the uterus. Dr. Priestley adds a very necessary