V %At, ^ PRACTICAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. BY W. J. ERASMUS WILSON, LECTURER ON PRACTICAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. ILLUSTRATED WITH FIFTY ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD BY BAGG. LONDON: printed for LONGMAN, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMANS, 1’ATERNOSTER-ROW. 1838.London : Printed by A. Spottiswoodb, New-Street-Square.TO JONES QUAIN, M.D. TfflS W®KK IS INSCRIBED HIS SINCERE AND GRATEFUL FRIEND, THE AUTHOR.a 3 PREFACE. r If it be true that, to know the wants and exact position of a people, the legislator should mingle in their pursuits and occupations; it is equally true, that to appreciate thoroughly the obstacles and diffi- culties with which the Student in Anatomy has to contend, and to clearly understand his wants, the teacher should participate in his labours. The experience of seven years, engaged in the active duties of the Practical Teacher in the dissecting room, in constant association with his fellow students in the field of nature, has convinced the Author, that much might still be effected towards facilitating the studies of the learner, and promoting his advancement in our beautiful Science. Impressed with this feeling, and actuated by the hope of assisting in so desirable an object, the Author has designed the present work;—-he has endeavoured to interest the student’s mind in the admirable me- chanism of the animal frame; while, by a simple, succinct, and clear description, he would shorten his labours in the acquirement of individual fragments; — he has also attempted to combine with the mecha-Vi PREFACE. nical operations of the Anatomist, the practical views and reflections of the Surgeon. The plan which he has pursued in the arrange- ment of the chapters, and in the description of the various regions, is that which seems to the Author the best calculated to assist the student in the dis- section of the body. He has commenced with the Lower extremity; which from the size and bold de- velopment of its component structures is usually selected for the “ coup d’essai ” of the young dis- sector. The student is first instructed in what manner to make his incisions and reflect the differ- ent layers; — the anatomy of each layer and of each organ is described as he approaches it; and tables and plans are continually introduced to enable him to embrace at a single glance the chief features of the different regions. The obscurity in which many parts of anatomy have been and are still involved, has led to a general indecision of description among anatomical writers which is highly injurious to the student, as tending to excite doubt and uncertainty in his mind, which it is most difficult and often impossible to entirely remove. To obviate as much as possible this diffi- culty, the Author has carefully selected the most frequently occurring phenomena as a standard, and has steadfastly adhered to that standard throughout the work; with the feeling that, if a subject be once well known, the occasional peculiarities and varieties maybe easily attained. Acting upon this impression, he has adopted a severity and terseness of description that might not be warranted by other circumstances.PREFACE. Vll For the correctness of the anatomical descriptions, the author pledges himself, and claims the entire confidence of the student;—they have not been copied from the works of his predecessors, but have been penned from the great book of Nature. Another object which the Author has kept in view, is, to place before the student the recent improve- ments that have been made in anatomical Science by modern and contemporary discoverers ; — for these he has consulted the works of Sir Astley Cooper, Dr. Grant, Kiernan, Swan, Guthrie, Stanley, Solly, Arnold, Horner, King, Hilton, Cocks, &c. The Author has a pleasing duty to perform in the public expression of his thanks to Mr. Liston, who kindly revised the surgical notices contained in the work; to Mr. Kiernan, for facilities in the examin- ation of his researches on the Liver; to Sir Astley Cooper, for the liberal display of his beautiful pre- parations of hernia, of the testis and of the thymus gland; to Mr. Guthrie, for a view of his preparations illustrating the deep perineal fascia, and compressor urethrae muscle ; to Mr. Dalrymple, for the demon- stration of his investigations upon the anatomy of the eye; and to Dr. Grant, for his friendly instruction on every point relating to comparative anatomy. The illustrations are principally derived from the class diagrams of the Author, and from designs made expressly for the work : — for the accuracy of deline- ation and delicacy of engraving, he is indebted to the skill of the eminent anatomical artists, the Messrs. Bagg. A 4-PREFACE. Vlll In conclusion, the Author would remind the me- dical students that it is to them, — to the young and rising men of our profession, — that the Science of Anatomy looks for improvement and perfection. The field is open even to the humblest labourer, and assiduity and industry will assuredly be rewarded by discovery and distinction.CONTENTS INTRODUCTION. General composition of the body Nature of dissection - Nature of a surgical operation Integument; cuticle — rete mucosum — cutis Superficial fascia - Deep fascia - Muscles - Vessels ; — Arteries — Veins Lymphatics — Nerves — Bones Ligaments j — Joints - CHAPTER I. LOWER EXTREMITY. Surgical observations Anterior femoral region Superficial fascia Superficial vessels and nerves Deep fascia; — fascia lata Saphenous opening Cribriform fascia Muscles— Anterior group Internal group Femoral artery. - Operation — Relations Branches Profunda artery - Relations — Branches Obturator artery Veins Nerves - Crural nerve Obturator nerve Femoral hernia Coverings — Operation A 5 PAGE 1 ib. 2 - ib. 3 ib. 4 ib. 5 6 7 11 ib. 12 13 ib. 14 15 17 - 19 20 21 ib. 22 24 ib. - ib. 25 - 26 - ib. 30CONTENTS, X Gluteal region Muscles Arteries - - - Nerves - Posterior femoral region Muscles Arteries Nerves - Popliteal region Popliteal artery - Operation - Relations Branches Popliteal nerve - Anterior tibial region Superficial anatomy Muscles - Anterior tibial artery Relations — Operations Branches Anterior tibial nerve Dorsal region of the foot Muscles Dorsalis pedis artery Operation — Branches Nerves Fibular region Muscles Nerves - - - Posterior tibial region Superficial anatomy Muscles— Superficial group Deep group Posterior tibial artery Operations — Branches Peroneal artery - Operation — Branches Sole of the foot Plantar fascia Muscles Arteries - Nerves - Plantar interossei muscles Analysis of the arrangement and lower extremity PAGE 31 32 35 37 38 - ib. 39 40 ib. 42 ib. - ib. 43 44 ib. - - - - ib. 46 47 - 48 - 49 ib. ib. ib. - 50 51 - ib. - 52 ----- ib. 53 - 54 ib. - 55 56 - 57 - 58 - - - - ib. - 59 - ib. - ib. 60 - 62 63 64 action of the muscles of the - ib. CHAPTER II. UPPER EXTREMITY. General principles in the disposition of the Bones - 67 Muscles - - - - - - 68XI CONTENTS PAGE Arteries ... . - 70 Veins — Lymphatics - - - 72 Nerves - _ _ _ ib. Anterior thoracic region - - - 73 Muscles ... _ _ ib. Lateral thoracic region _ 75 Muscles - _ _ ib. Subscapular region ... _ _ 76 Acromial region ... _ ib. Bend of the elbow ... _ ib. Nerves .... —, 77 Veins .... _ 78 Accidents from Bleeding - . 79 False aneurism ... • _ 80 Aneurismal varix _ _ _ ib. Varicose aneurism _ ib. Anterior brachial region _ _ 81 Muscles ... _ _ ib. Posterior thoracic region — First layer - ib. Second layer ... - _ 83 Posterior scapular region _ _ ib. Muscles ... _ ib. Posterior brachial region _ _ _ 84 Triceps muscle - • • _ ib. Axilla .... . 86 Axillary artery ... . _ 87 Relations — Operation - _ ib. Branches ... _ m 88 Brachial artery ... _ _ . _ 89 Relations ... _ _ _ ib. Branches - 90 Axillary plexus of nerves _ _ ib. Fore-arm — anterior region • _ 93 Muscles — Superficial group - - 94 Deep group - - _ 95 Radial artery ... - _ 96 Relations — Operations • 97 Branches ... m ib. Ulnar artery ... - _ _ 98 Relations — Operations • _ 99 Branches ... _ 100 Median nerve ... 101 Ulnar nerve ... 102 Musculo-spiral nerve 103 Fore-arm — posterior region _ _ 104 Muscles — Superficial layer _ _ 105 Deep layer ... • 107 Palmar region ... • 109 Muscles — Radial group • ib. Ulnar group _ ib. Palmar group A 6 - 110CONTENTS xn CHAPTER III. THORAX. Thorax — Boundaries Muscles Thoracic fascia Lungs - - - Pleura ... Anterior mediastinum Middle mediastinum Pericardium Heart - Circulation Right auricle Right ventricle Left auricle Left ventricle Structure of the heart Coronary arteries Aorta — ascending — arch Pulmonary artery Superior vena cava Pulmonary veins Trachea— Bronchi Posterior mediastinum Relations — Branches Vena azygos major Vena azygos minor Superior intercostal vein Thoracic duct (Esophagus Pneumogastric nerves Sympathetic nerve Splanchnic nerves Cardiac ganglion and plexuses PAGE - 113 - ib. - 114 - 115 - 116 - 117 - 118 ib. - 119 - ib. ib. - 123 - 126 ib. - 127 - 128 - 129 - 130 - 131 - ib; ib. - 132 ib. - 133 - 134 ib. ib. - 135 - ib. - 1S6 - 137 ib. CHAPTER IV. REGION OF THE BACK. - 139 - 140 - ib. - 142 - 143 - 144 - 145 - 146 Arrangement of muscles Third layer Fourth layer Fifth layer Sixth layer Table of origins Table of insertions Actions of the muscles of the backCONTENTS. xiii CHAPTER V. HEAD AND NECK. Muscles of the head — arrangement Cranial group - Orbital group ... Nasal group ... Superior labial group Inferior labial group Auricular group Maxillary group Muscles of the neck Arrangement into groups Superficial fascia - Platysma myoides ... Deep cervical fascia ... Sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle Muscles — groups ... Depressors of the os hyoides and larynx Elevators of the os hyoides Muscles of the tongue Parotid gland - Facial nerve ... Branches Communications External jugular vein Operations ... Superficialis colli nerve Auricularis magnus nerve Occipitalis minor nerve Triangles of the neck Great anterior triangle Great posterior triangle - Submaxillar)' triangle Superior carotid triangle - Inferior carotid triangle - Suboccipital triangle Subclavian triangle Operations on the neck Facial artery Lingual artery Common carotid artery - Innominata artery Tracheotomy - Laryngotomy - Subclavian artery Common carotid artery Relations ... PAGE - 148 - 149 - 150 - 151 - ib. - 152 - 153 ib. - 156 - 157 - 158 ib. - 159 ib. • 160 - ib. - 161 - 163 - 164 - 165 - 166 - 167 - 168 - 169 - ib. - 170 - ib. - 171 - ib. - ib. - ib. - 172 - ib. - ib. ib. - ib. - ib. ■■ 173 - ib. - 174 ib. - 175 ib. - 176 - 177CONTENTS. XIV External carotid artery Relations Branches Superior thyroid artery - Lingual artery Facial artery Mastoid artery Posterior auricular artery Occipital artery - Transversalis faciei artery Temporal artery - Internal maxillary artery Ascending pharyngeal artery Internal carotid artery Relations Branches Internal jugular vein Anterior jugular vein Subclavian artery - Relations Branches Vertebral artery - Basilar artery Thyroid axis Inferior thyroid artery Supra-scapular artery Posterior scapular artery Superficialis cervicis artery Profunda cervicis artery Superior intercostal artery Internal mammary artery Nerves of the neck Glosso-pliaryngeal nerve Pneumogastric nerve Pharyngeal nerve Superior laryngeal nerve Recurrent laryngeal nerve Spinal accessory nerve Lingual nerve - - - Sympathetic nerve Superior cervical ganglion Middle cervical ganglion Inferior cervical ganglion Cervical nerves - Anterior cervical plexus - Phrenic nerve - Posterior cervical plexus Orbit - Tabular arrangement of structures Muscles of the orbit rage - 177 ib. - 178 - 179 ib. - 181 - 182 ib. ib. - 188 ib. - 184 - 187 - 188 ib. - 189 - ib. - 190 ib. - 191 - 192 - ib. - 193 ib. ib. - 194 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. - 196 - 197 - 198 - 199 - ib. - 200 - 201 ib. - 202 - ib. - 20S - 204 ib. - ib. - 20 5 - 206 ib. - 208 - ib.XV CONTENTS Nerves — arrangement in cavernous sinus Optlialmic nerve - Fourth nerve - - - Third nerve - - - - - Sixth nerve - Ciliary ganglion - - - Optlialmic artery - Fifth fair of nerves .... Superior maxillary nerve . / . Inferior maxillary nerve - Gustatory nerve - Inferior dental nerve - Auricular nerve - Cranial ganglia of the sympathetic - Otic ganglion - Spheno-palatine ganglion ... Submaxillary ganglion - Naso-palatine ganglion - Pharynx ------ Muscles of the pharynx - - - - Openings into the pharynx - Soft palate - - - Fauces ------ Muscles of the soft palate - Prevertebral region - Muscles - CHAPTER VI. BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. Dura mater ... Glandula; Pacchioni Falx cerebri - - - Tentorium cerebelli Falx cerebelli Sinuses of the dura mater Superior longitudinal sinus Inferior longitudinal sinus Straight sinus Occipital sinus - Lateral sinuses Torcular Ilerophili Cavernous sinuses Inferior petrosal sinus Circular sinus Superior petrosal sinus Transverse sinus Arteries of the dura mater Nerves of the dura mater PAGE - 210 - 211 - 213 ib. - 214 ib. ib. - 216 - 217 - 218 - 220 - ib. - 221 ib. - 222 ib. - 223 ib. - 224 - ib. - 225 - 226 - 227 ib. - 228 - ib. - 230 - 231 ib. - 232 ib. - 233 - ib. - 234 - ib. - ib. ib. - ib. ib. - 235 ib. - ib. ib. - 236 - ib.XVI CONTENTS Arachnoid membrane PAGE 236 Sub-arachnoidean cellular tissue - - - • ib. Sub-arachnoidean fluid - - - - ib. Pia mater ... - - - - 237 Arteries of the brain - - - - 238 Circle of Willis - - . - 239 Development of the cerebro-spinal axis in animals - - 240 Development of the cerebro-spinal axis in man - - 241 Cerebrum - - - - 242 Medullary and cortical substance . - - 243 Centrum ovale majus - - - - ib. Corpus callosum - - - - 244 Lateral ventricles - - - - 245 Corpus striatum - - - - - ib. Tenia semicircularis - . - - 246 Choroid plexus - - - - - ib. Corpus fimbriatum - - - - 247 Middle cornu - - - - ib. Hippocampus major - - - - 248 Fascia dentata - - - - ib. Fornix - - - - - 249 Velum interpositum - - - - 250 Thalami optici - - - - 251 Third ventricle - _ - - - ib. Corpora quadrigemina - - - - 252 Pineal gland - - - - ib. Fourth ventricle - - - - - ib. Valve of Vieussens - - - - 253 Calamus scriptorius - - - - ib. Lining membrane of the ventricles - - - 254 Cerebellum - - - - ib. Peduncles - - - - 255 Base of the Brain - - - - 256 Tuber cinereum and infundibulum - - - 257 Corpora albicantia - - - - ib. Crura cerebri - - - 258 Pons Varolii . - - - ib. Medulla Oblongata - - - - ib. Corpora pyramidalia - - - - ib. Corpora olivaria - - - - - 259 Corpora restiformia - - - - ib. Diverging fibres of the brain - - - - ib. Arciform fibres - - - - - 260 Converging fibres - - - - 261 Commissures - - - - ib. Cerebral nerves - - - - 262 Olfactory - - - - 263 Optic - - - - - ib. Auditory - - - - 264 Motor tract - - - - 26 5XVII CONTENTS. • ib. - - Nerves of the eye-ball Motores oculorum - - - PAGE 266 Abducentes - - - - ib. Lingual - - - - ib. Respiratory nerves of Bell - - ib. Pathetici _ - - - ib. Facial nerve • - - - 267 Glosso-pharyngeal nerve - - - ib. Pneumogastric nerve - - - ib. Spinal accessory nerve - - - ib. Trifacial nerve - - - ib. Spinal Cord - - - - 268 Membranes of the spinal cord - . - ib. Sub-arachnoidean fluid - . _ - 269 Membrana dentata - - • - ib. Motor columns - - - - - 271 Sensitive columns - - _ - 272 Spinal nerves— Origins - - - - ib. Arrangement - - - - 273 Dorsi-spinal veins - - - - ib. Meningo-rachidian veins - - - - ib. Medulli-spinal veins “ “ 274 CHAPTER VII. ORGANS OF SENSE. Nose ..... 27 5 Nasal fossae . . _ 277 Boundaries _ _ ib. Meatuses . • « m _ 278 Pituitary membrane - _ ib. Vessels of the nose _ _ _ ib. Nerves of the nose - - . 279 Practical observations . . _ _ ib. Eye - - _ 280 Sclerotic coat - . _ 281 Cornea - _ _ _ _ 282 Choroid coat - 283 Ciliary ligament - - - _ * 284 Iris - - _ • 285 Ciliary processes - - - - _ ib. Retina - - _ _ 286 Zonula ciliaris - _ m 287 Aqueous humour - • _ 288 Chambers of the eye . m _ ib. Vitreous humour _ _ m 289 Crystalline lens - - - _ ib. Canal of Petit . . _ ib. Vessels of the eye-ball - _ 290 •CONTENTS, xvm Physiological observations _ _ PAGE 290 Appendages of the Eve - - - - 291 Eyebrows - - - - ib. Eyelids - - - - ib. Meibomian glands - - - - 292 Eyelashes - - - - ib. Conjunctiva - - - - 293 Caruncula lachrymalis - - - - ib. Plica semilunaris - - - - ib. Lachrymal apparatus - - - • ib. Lachrymal gland - - - - ib. Puncta lachrymalia - - - - 294 Lachrymal sac - - - - 295 Nasal duct _ - - ib. Ear ... _ • * - ib. Pinna ... _ - _ - 296 Muscles of the pinna - - - - ib. Meatus auditorius . - - - 297 Vessels and nerves of the pinna - - - - ib. Tympanum - - - - ib. Membrana tympani • - - - ib. Ossicula auditus - - - - _ 298 Muscles of the tympanum - - - - 299 Openings in the tympanum - - - - ib. Eustachian tube - - - - - 300 Vessels of the tympanum - - - - - 302 Nerves of the tympanum - - - - - ib. Labyrinth - - - - 303 Vestibule - _ _ • ib. Semicircular canals • . . - ib. Cochlea ... - - . - 305 Auditory nerve - - - - - ib. Arteries of the labyrinth - - - - - S06 Tongue ... - • - - ib. Papillae circumvallatae - - - ib. Papillae conicae and filiformes . - - - 307 Papillae fungiformes - - - - ib. Vessels of the tongue - - - - ib. Nerves of the tongue - - - - ib. Skin - . - - - 308 Cutis ... - - - - ib. Corium ... - - - - 309 Papillary layer - - - - ib. Rete mucosum - - - - - 310 Cuticle ... - - - - ib. Nails ... - - - - 311 Hairs ... . - - - ib. Sebaceous follicles - . - . 312 Perspiratory ducts - - - - 312 Pores ... • - - - ib. iCONTENTS. XIX TAGE Larynx _ _ _ . _ 312 Thyroid cartilage - - _ _ _ 313 Cricoid cartilage - _ mm _ ib. Arytenoid cartilage • - . mm • ib. Epiglottis - - . _ _ 314 Ligaments of the larynx - - - - _ ib. Chords vocal es - • _ ib. Muscles of the larynx • • 315 Mucous membrane of the larynx _ 317 Glottis - mm _ _ ib. Ventricle of the larynx m ib. Sacculus laryngis _ _ ib. Glands of the larynx mm 318 Vessels and nerves of the larynx _ _ ib. Trachea _ _ _ 319 Thyroid Gland - - - - - 320 CHAPTER VIII. ABDOMEN. Muscles of the abdomen . 321 Linea alba — surgery of the mm ■ _ . 322 Linea semilunaris — surgery of the m • . • ib. External oblique muscle . m _ 323 Poupart’s ligament . • • ib. Gimbernat’s ligament • • ib. External abdominal ring • _ ib. Internal oblique muscle • _ _ 325 Transversalis muscle _ _ _ 327 Rectus muscle _ _ 328 Sheath of the rectus _ ib. Anatomy of Hernia - _ 329 Umbilical Hernia • m ib. Ventral Hernia m _ _ ib. Inguinal Hernia - _ _ ib. Transversalis fascia • m _ 330 Internal abdominal ring . m . ib. Spermatic canal . _ ib. Oblique inguinal Hernia _ 331 Direct inguinal Hernia • _ 332 Seat of Stricture _ ib. Congenital Hernia m 333 Encysted Hernia _ m 334 Vessels of the abdominal parietes _ ib. Nerves of the abdominal parietes - 335 Cavity of the abdomen ib. Regions of the abdomen ib. Position of the viscera - • . • 336XX CONTENTS Peritoneum . PAGE 336 Lesser omentum - - - - 338 Foramen of Winslow - - - - 339 Great omentum - - . - ib. Transverse meso-colon - . - . 340 Mesentery - - - - - - ib- Meso-rectum - - - - ib. Appendices epiploic® - - - - ib. Gastro-splenic omentum - - - - ib. Viscera of the Abdomen - - - - ib. Stomach - . - - - 341 Small intestine - - - _ ib. Duodenum - - - - ib. Jejunum - - - - 342 Ileum - - - - ib. Large intestine - - - - ib. Ccccum - . - . ib. Colon - - • - - ib. Rectum . - - - 343 Mucous membrane of the alimentary canal - - - ib. Structure of the mucous membrane . . . - ib. Epithelium - - - - 344 Papillary layer - - - - ib. Villi - • - - ib. Sub-mucous fibrous layer - - - - ib. Follicles - - - - . 345 Solitary glands - - - - ib. Aggregate glands, Peyer’s - - - - ib. Duodenal glands, Brunner’s - - - - - ib. Gastric follicles Muscular coat of the alimentary canal - “ ib. ib. Serous coat of the alimentary canal - - - - 346 Vessels of the alimentary canal - - - - 347 Nerves of the alimentary canal - - - - ib. Superior mesenteric artery - - - - 348 Superior mesenteric vein - - - - 349 Lacteals — Mesenteric glands - - - - ib. Superior mesenteric plexus - - - - ib. Inferior mesenteric artery - - - - 349 Cceliac axis - - - - - 350 Gastric artery - - - - ib. Hepatic artery - - 351 Splenic artery - - ib. Ductus communis choledochus - - - S52 Liver - - - - - ib. Lobes - - - - 353 Fissures - - - - ib. Ligaments - - - - 354 Vessels - - - “ ib. Vessels and nerves of the Liver - - • - 355CONTENTS. XXI Gall-bladder - Kieman’s researches, upon the structure of the Liver - Lobules ... Acini of Malpighi Glisson’s capsule Portal vein - Hepatic duct - Hepatic artery ... Hepatic veins - Nerves and Lymphatics Summary ... Physiological deductions Pathological deductions Spleen - Pancreas .... Semilunar ganglia ... Solar plexus ... Sympathetic - Abdominal aorta ... Relations ... Branches - Phrenic arteries ... Supra-renal arteries ... Renal arteries - Spermatic arteries ... Lumbar arteries ... Sacra media ... Inferior vena cava ... Relations ... Branches ... Right spermatic vein Renal veins ... Kidneys .... Ureters .... Diaphragm .... Openings ... Posterior abdominal muscles Lumbar plexus of nerves Branches ... and minute anatomy PAGE 355 356 ib. 357 ib. 358 360 361 362 363 ib. 364 ib, 365 366 367 ib. ib. ib. ib. 368 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. 369 ib. ib. ib. 370 ib. ib. 371 372 373 ib. 375 ib. CHAPTER IX. PELVIS AND ORGANS OF GENERATION. Bladder Ligaments of the bladder Coats of the bladder Trigone vesicale 377 378 380 381CONTENTS XXU Uvula vesicse _ PAGE 381 Muscles of the ureters - - - - - ib. Urethra - - - - - 382 Prostatic portion - - - - ib. Membranous portion - - - - - ib. Spongy portion Cowper’s glands - - - - 383 - - - ib. Prostate gland - - - - - ib. Vesicul® seminales - - - - - 384 Vasa deferentia - - - - ib. Ejaculatory duct - - - - - ib. Pelvic fascia - - - - • 385 Levator ani muscle - - - - - ib. Internal iliac artery - * - - - 386 Sacral plexus of nerves - - - - - 387 Penis - - - - - 388 Corpora cavernosa - - - - - ib. Corpus spongiosum - - - - - 389 Scrotum - - - - - 390 Testicle - - - - - ib. Tunica vaginalis - - - - - 391 Tunica albuginea - - - - - ib. Tunica vasculosa - - - - - 392 Epididymis - - - - - ibi Vas deferens - - - - - 394 Spermatic cord - - - - - ib. Surgery of the testicle and cord - - - - ib. Female pelvis and organs of generation - - - 395 Bladder - - - - - ib. Female urethra - - - - - 396 Mons Veneris - - - - - ib. Labia majora • - - - - ib. Labia minora, or Nymphae - - - - - ib. Clitoris - - - - - 397 Hymen - - - ib. Meatus urinarius - - - - - ib. Vagina - - - - ib. Uterus - - - - - 398 Fallopian tubes - - - - - 400 Ovaries - - - - - ib. CHAPTER X. PERINEUM. General idea - - - - - - 402 Dissection - • - 404 Common superficial fascia ... - - ib.xxiii CONTENTS. ib. Superficial perineal fascia Muscles of the perineum Internal pudic artery Branches Dorsalis penis vein Compressor venae dorsalis muscle Internal pudic nerve Compressor urethrae muscle Cowper’s glands Operation for Lithotomy Structures cut through in the operation Perineum in the female Muscles of the female perineum Arteries . Nerves . PAGE 405 406 407 408 409 , ib. ib. 410 412 ib. 414 415 ib. 416 ib. CHAPTER XI. SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Genera] description Cranial Ganglia Ganglion of Ribes Ciliary ganglion - Naso-palatine ganglion Spheno-palatine ganglion - Vidian nerve Submaxillary ganglion Otic ganglion Carotid plexus - . Cervical Ganglia Superior cervical ganglion Middle cervical ganglion Inferior cervical ganglion Vertebral plexus - Cardiac nerves Cardiac ganglion Great cardiac plexus Anterior cardiac plexus - Posterior cardiac plexus - Anterior coronary plexus - Posterior coronary plexus Thoracic Ganglia Great splanchnic nerve Lesser splanchnic nerve - Semilunar ganglion Solar plexus Abdominal plexuses 417 418 ib. ib. 419 420 ib. 422 ib. 423 424 ib. 425 'ib. 426 ib. ib. 427 ib. 428 ib. ib. ib. 429 ib. ib. ib.CONTENTS. XXIV Descent of the testicle ib. Lumbar Ganglia Aortic plexus Hypogastric plexus Sacral Ganglia Ganglion impar or azygos PAGE - 430 ib. ib. ib. - 431 CHAPTER XII. ANATOMY OF THE FCETUS. Osseous system Order of development of bones Development of vertebrae Cranial bones Facial bones Flat bones Long bones Muscular system Vascular system Foetal circulation Nervous system Organs of sense — Eye Membrana pupillaris Ear - Nose - Thyroid gland Viscera of the thorax Thymus gland Lobules Reservoir Analysis of thymic fluid Lungs - Heart - Foramen ovale Ductus arteriosus Viscera of the abdomen Omphalo-mesenteric vessels - Appendix coeci Meconium - Liver - Kidneys - Renal capsules Viscera of the pelvis - Bladder - Urachus - - - Uterus - Ovaries - - - 432 ib. 433 434 ib. 435 ib. 436 ib. ib. 439 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. 440 ib. 441 442 ib. ib. 433 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. 444 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib.XXV CONTENTS. Ligaments or the i.ower extremity ib. CHAPTER XIII. ON THE LIGAMENTS. Synarthrosis - Harmonia - Schindylesis - Gomphosis - Sutura - Amphi-arthrosis - Symphisis Diarthrosis - Arthrodia - Ginglymus - Enarthrosis - Ligaments of the trunk - Articulations of the vertebral column of the atlas with the occipital bone of the axis with the occipital bone of the atlas with the axis - of the lower jaw - Dislocations - of the ribs with the vertebrae of the ribs with the sternum of the vertebral column with the pelvis of the pelvis - Ligaments of the upper extremity - Sterno-clavicular articulation Dislocations - Scapulo-clavicular articulation Dislocations - Proper ligaments of the scapula Shoulder joint - Dislocations - Elbow joint - Dislocations - Radio-ulnar articulation Dislocations - Wrist joint - Dislocations - Articulation between the carpal bones Dislocations - Carpo-metacarpal articulation Dislocations - Metacarpo-phalangeal articulation Dislocations - Articulation of the phalanges Dislocations - a PAGE - 446 ib. ib. ib. ib. - 447 - ib. ib. ib. ib. - 448 ib. ib. - 450 - 451 ib. - 452 - 453 ib. - 454 - 455 ib. - 458 - ib. - 459 ib. ~ 460 ib. ib. - 461 ib. ib. - 462 - 463 ib. ib. ib. - 465 ib. - 466 ib. - ib. ib. - 467XXVI CONTENTS PAGE Hip joint ------- 467 Dislocations ------ 468 Knee joint - - - - - •• - ib. Dislocations - - - - - -472 Articulation between the tibia and fibula - - - ib. Ankle joint ------ 473 Dislocations ------ 474 Articulation of the tarsal bones - ib. Dislocations ------ 475 Articulation of the tarsus with the metatarsus - - - 476 Metatarso-phalangeal articulation - - - ib. Dislocations ------ 477 Articulation of the phalanges - - - ib. APPENDIX. Mammae - - - .... - 478 Mammary gland - - - - - - ib. Structure - - - - - - ib. Vessels and nerves - - - - - 479 Salivary glands - - - - - ib. Parotid - - - - - - ib. Submaxillary - - - - - - ib. Sublingual - - - - - - ib. Structure - - - - - - ib. Vessels and nerves - - - - ib. Common iliac arteries ----- 480 Relations - - - - - ib. External iliac artery - - - - - ib. Relations — branches - - - - - ib. Epigastric artery - - - - ib. Circumflexa ilii artery - - - - - 481 Coccygeus muscle - - - - - - ib.PRACTICAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. INTRODUCTION. The human body is composed of certain principal struc- tures, which occupy the same relative position to each other, wheresoever they be examined. To obtain a good knowledge of these, is therefore the first duty of the dissector; the more particularly, that a just conception of their nature and position will greatly facilitate the future progress of his studies. These parts may be thus arranged, in the order of their superposition: — Integument, Superficial fascia, Deep fascia, Muscles, ' Vessels, Arteries, Veins, Lymphatics, Nerves, Bones and ligaments, and cellular tissue, the common connecting medium of the body, by which they are all held together. The business of dissection, therefore, consists in di- viding and turning aside the integument, the superficial fascia, and the deep fascia; in freeing the muscles from their enveloping cellular tissue ; in separating them, so as to display the vessels and nerves which lie between them ; and in following the latter to their ultimate rami- fications. BINTEGUMENT.— SKIN. 2 In the same manner the performance of an operation with the aid of the knife, as, for example, the tying of an artery, requires the division of the integument, super- ficial fascia, and deep fascia, the separation of the mus- cles, and the finding and securing of the vessel. So again in amputation, the same structures are to be divided, and in precisely the same order. Thus the student will per- ceive that one principal object of dissection is the practice of his knife in the division and separation of these parts, so as to enable him to accomplish his end with ease and dexterity. All the operations of dissection should be conducted with the same delicacy that is observed in the treatment of the living subject. The result of such practice must be obvious — the attainment of that con- fidence and precision in surgical manipulations, which is so necessary to the intelligent surgeon. Now, let us inquire into the nature of the structures composing the preceding table. The integument (integere, to cover in), is the investing covering of the entire body ; in common parlance, the skin : it consists, of The cuticle (epidermis, scarf-skin) is the thin homy layer that protects the surface of the integument. The rete mucosum is the soft layer interposed between the cuticle and cutis, in which the colouring particles of the skin are deposited. It is modelled upon the papilla? of the cutis, so as to resemble a beautiful network when examined beneath the microscope. Hence its designation rete; and mucosum from having been seen only when softened by decomposition, or by the irritation of a blister when the cuticle is raised. It may however, with care, De separated from the cutis in layers of considerable size. The cutis (o-kvtos, the skin, dermis) is formed of two layers—a superficial, the papillary, which presents a sur- face bristled with papillary elevations variously arranged, in which resides the sensibility to touch ; and a deep layer, the coriitm (leather), which is firm, elastic, and Cuticle, Rete mucosumSUPERFICIAL FASCIA. — DEEP FASCIA. 3 b 2 resisting, and is made up of fibres and bands closely inter- woven into each other, so as to give strength and support to the tegumentary covering. The superficial fascia (fascia, a bandage), placed imme- diately beneath the tegument over every part of the body, is the medium of connection between that layer and the deeper parts. It consists of cellular tissue, in which is deposited an abundance of adipose matter. The fat, being a bad conductor of caloric, serves to retain the warmth of the body ; while it forms at the same time a yielding tissue, through which the minute vessels and nerves may pass to the papillary layer of the skin, without incurring the risk of obstruction from injury or pressure upon the surface. By dissection, the superficial fascia may be separated into two layers, between which are found the superficial or cutaneous vessels and nerves ; as the superficial epigastric artery, the saphenous veins, the radial and ulnar veins, the superficial lymphatic vessels, or the cutaneous nerves, and in one instance a muscle, platysma myoides. The deep fascia is a dense and resisting layer, found chiefly in the extremities and in the neck, where large vessels are carrying onwards the circulating fluids in opposition to the laws of gravity, and where muscles are often acting with prodigious force. In other situations, as over the trunk of the body or upon the head, this layer cannot be said to exist. The deep fascia in the limbs is a tendino-fibrous membrane, formed by a close interlacement of tendinous fibres, which cross each other in various directions. To the eye it presents a brilliant, nacreous lustre. It is strong and unyielding, enclosing the entire limb, and is prolonged into its substance so as to form distinct sheaths to all the muscles. Upon the inner side of the limb it is thin; on the outer and less protected side it is dense and thick. It is connected to the prominent points about the limb, as to the pelvis, knee, and ankle, in the lower extremity, and to the clavicle, scapula, elbow, and wrist, in the upper extre- mity. Its tension is regulated in some situations by muscular action, as by the tensor vaginae femoris and gluteus maximus in the thigh, and by the biceps and palmaris longus in the arm.4 MUSCLES. ARTERIES VEINS. The deep fascia of the neck is different in its structure from that in the limbs; it is a cellulo-fibrous membrane, and consists of cellular tissue very much condensed. It has no tendinous fibres, and none of their resplendency. In its office, it acts precisely the same part with the ten- dino-Jibrous fasciae. The muscles (musculus, from movere, to move) are the moving organs of the body : they are made up of fibres disposed parallel to each other in a framework of cellular tissue. Towards the extremities of the muscles the fibres cease, and the cellular framework is condensed into a rounded cord, called tendon (tendo, a sinew), by which it is attached to the bones. The more fixed extremity of a muscle is called the “ origin its more moveable end the ccinsertion.” The muscles which enclose cavities, as the abdominal, are broad and extensive ; and their tendon is flattened out into a thin expansion, which is called “ apo- neurosis" (ano, longe—vEvpov, nervus — a nerve widely spread out). This derivation demands some explanation. The ancients named all the white fibres of the body vevpa^ or nerves. The vessels are of three kinds — arteries, veins, and lymphatics. The former are cylindrical tubes, composed of three layers — an external, formed of condensed cellular tissue, the “ cellular coata middle, of fibres of elastic tissue, the “fibrous coat f' and a lining membrane, or “ serous coat” After death they are usually found empty, but preserve their cylindrical form by reason of the thickness of their coats; hence their name (aijp TTjptjy, to contain air), from a supposition of the ancients that they were intended to confine the vital spirits. Their office is to convey the vital fluid to every part of the system; and their ultimate terminations are denominated, from their extreme minuteness, capillaries (capillus, hair). The veins are found in company with the arteries; with the exception of the superficial veins. They return the blood from the capillary vessels of the arteries to the right side of the heart, to be then circulated through the lungs. They are larger than the arteries, and after death are found filled with dark coloured blood. The coats are the same as those of the arteries, but much thinner; and the internal coat is reflected inwards at various points, so as to5 LYMPHATICS. NERVES. BONES. b 3 form valves. The position of these valves is evidently marked on the exterior of the tube, by the swellings on that part of the vessel which immediately precedes them. The lymphatics (lympha, water) are small, delicate vessels which accompany the veins, and present many points of resemblance with them. They return a limpid fluid to the venous circulation, and are provided with a number of valves placed at short distances, which, with the corresponding swellings, give them a knotted appear- ance. Their coats are the same as those of veins and arteries. Near the flexures of the joints they enter small red bodies, called glands, from which they emerge fewer in number, and larger in size. They are too minute to be seen in an ordinary dissection, unless the subject be anasarcous. The nerves (vsvpa, nerves) are white flattened cords, composed of filaments, which are connected by one ex- tremity with the cerebro-spinal axis; and, by the other, are distributed to all the textures of the body, commu- nicating to them sensibility and power of motion. The smallest nerve is made up of a number of filaments, enclosed in a peculiar transparent sheath, called neuri- lema ; which, when freshly exposed, presents a continuous zigzag line along its cylinder. The nerves are usually found accompanying the arteries, and, in the extremities, are placed nearer to the integument than those vessels, as if to be ready to apprize the neighbouring muscles of the first approach of injury, that they may withdraw the more immediately important organs, the arteries, from its consequences. The hones are the organs of support to the animal frame. They give firmness and strength to the entire fabric, afford points of connection to the numerous mus- cles, and bestow general form upon the body. In the limbs they are hollow cylinders, calculated by their form and structure to support weight, and resist violence. In the trunk and head, they are flattened and arched, to protect cavities and provide extensive surfaces of attach- ment. In many situations they present projections of considerable length that serve as levers ; and smooth surfaces that possess all the mechanical advantages of the pulley. While strength and solidity are the principal6 I/I G AMENTS.— JOINTS. objects sought for in the shaft of the bone, the extremities are expanded into broad surfaces, that they may transmit the weight of the body with perfect security to the bones below. In the formation of a joint a new organ is introduced, “the ligament” (ligare, to bind). It consists of short strata of fibres passing from bone to bone, in order to con- nect them together. The different varieties of joint demand a different arrangement of these ligaments. Thus the hinge joint, as the elbow, wrist, knee, ankle, moving in one direction only, has necessarily a squareness of form, and is provided with a ligament to each of its four sides. These are named from their position, anterior, posterior, and lateral. A great proportion of the joints of the body are constructed upon this simple principle. When more extensive movements are demanded, the ball and socket joint is provided, and to accommodate its circular form, the four ligaments are, as it were, united into one, which completely surrounds the ends of the two bones. Hence the capsular ligaments of the hip, the shoulder, and the thumb; and when repose and solidity are the great objects, as in the vertebral column, the pelvis, the carpus, and tarsus, small slips of ligaments are seen passing from bone to bone in every direction in which these straight bands can be arranged, without inconvenience to the general plan. These then are the structures of which, with the ex- ception of the viscera, the whole animal frame is com- posed ; and it is incumbent upon the student of anatomy to possess a clear and distinct idea of all these parts, their uses, and natural dependencies, before he can hope to display and examine them in the body with advantage.7 CHAPTER I. THE LOWElt EXTREMITY. Before commencing the dissection of the lower ex- tremity, the student will carefully l-eflect upon the objects of his proposed dissection, and particularly upon the prac- tical application of the information which he is seeking to acquire. The lower extremity comprises all that portion of the body which forms the lower limb, and is bounded above by the external surface of the pelvis. It consists of a thigh, leg, and foot — of the hip, knee, ankle, tarsal, metatarsal, and digital joints — of a complicated appa- ratus of muscles — of the femoral, popliteal, tibial, pedal, and plantar arteries — of veins, lymphatics, nerves, bones, and ligaments. Now all these structures are liable to injury; and the surgeon, upon such an occurrence, is called upon to remedy the accident — to apply the knowledge that he shall have gained, through tue aid of his eyes and hands, in the dissecting room. Suppose the accident be one involving deep and important parts without affecting the surface, or exposing to the eyes the structure which may be injured : in such a case the surgeon has recourse to the comparative form and position of the adjoining limb; but circumstances may render this comparison unavailing; and he is then obliged to recal the observations he may chance to have made during his anatomical studies. De- pend upon it, that a sound knowledge of the relations of the different portions of the limbs will ever be found of the highest possible value to the practitioner who is sud- denly called to the aid of a wounded fellow-creature. Indeed, such a knowledge should be considered as the leading characteristic of the accomplished surgeon. Starting with reflections such as these, the student will perceive that other observations are necessary to him in addition to those which arise out of the mere dissection b 4 ISURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 8 of the component parts of the limb which he is about to study. The thigh may be dislocated at the hip, or at the knee; the muscles, or their tendons, may be ruptured; the arteries may be wounded or diseased, requiring that incisions of considerable extent or depth should be made in their course, and a ligature placed around them ; or nerves may be ganglionated, and demand removal; lastly, the whole limb may be disorganised, and call for ampu- tation. In each and every of these circumstances, relief is simply and effectually bestowed, if the operator be well acquainted with the situation and dissection of the various structures which may be implicated in the accident or disease ; and these are to be learnt only in the dissecting room by careful observation and manipulation. Having the lower extremity extended on the table before him, and the leg everted, let the student carry aline (Jig.l. l.) from the extreme point of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the symphisis pubis, and then an- other, 2. from the middle of the preceding to that projection upon the inner condyle of the femur, which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint; this will mark the course of the femoral artery. If the leg be perfectly straight, without inversion or eversion, the line must be carried to the apex of the patella. Again, if a line, 3., be drawn from the spinous pro- * Fig. 1. The thigh turned upon its outer side as in dissecting it. No. 1. A line drawn from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis ; these two points are represented by crosses. 2. A second line extended from the middle of the preceding to theSURGICAL. OBSERVATIONS. 9 B 5 cess of the pubis along the inner border of the thigh to the projection on the internal condyle, a second line, 4., drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and crossing the former at the middle of the thigh, will mark the direction of the upper margin of the sartorius muscle, and enclose a triangular space, which is bounded above by Poupart’s ligament. Within this triangle, the femoral artery may be laid bare and secured, in any part of the line 2. which marks its course ; the usual situation for ligature of the femoral artery, in popliteal aneurism, being at the point where the upper margin of the sartorius crosses its course, the border of this muscle forming the natural guide for the direction of the incision. At the pubic angle of this triangular space, is situated the saphenous opening, n., through which the sac of femoral hernia is protruded. In rare cases, the femoral artery is tied below the lower border of the sartorius muscle; under such circumstances, a space, varying from one inch to one inch and a half, and parallel to the oblique line, should be allowed for the breadth of the Sartorius, and the incision commenced immediately below this border, 6., still following the original line of its course. Besides these, there is another point of equal import- ance to the surgeon, in the consideration of the proper projections on the surface of the limb, viz., the apophysis named trochanter major. For it is this prominence that tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur. This line marks the direction of the femoral artery. 3. A third line, drawn from the spine of the pubis to the tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur. 4. A fourth line drawn from the 6pine of the ilium to the middle of line three; this line marks the upper border of the sartorius muscle, and is the direction for the incision in securing the artery in the upper third of its course. 5. The outline of the sartorius muscle. 6. The direction of the incision in operating upon the femoral artery, below the sartorius muscle, shewn by a dotted line. 7. A line drawn from the trochanter major to the spine of the ilium. 8. Another line drawn from the trochanter major to the crest of the ilium. 9. The internal saphenous vein. 10. The superficial epigastric and super- ficial circumflexa ilii veins, converging to open into it previously to its entrance into the saphenous opening. 11. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata. 12. The external cutaneous nerve. 13. The middle cutaneous nerves, branches of the anterior crural.10 SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. marks the altered position of the limb in dislocations or diseases of the hip-joint, or fractures about the neck of the femur. It is a point little liable to variation from strength or muscularity ol the limb; but is necessarily more prominent and more sharply defined in an ema- ciated individual. A line, 8. drawn from the upper point of the trochanter major to the most convex part of the crest of the ilium, and another, 7., extended from the same point to the anterior superior spinous process, may be compared with the same admeasurements on the oppo- site limb. An important measurement of the thigh, for the detec- tion of dislocation, is obtained by extending a line from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the apex of the patella, and comparing its length with that on the opposite limb. If shortening be found to exist, whilst the distance, 8., between the trochanter major and the crest of the ilium is the same on both sides of the body, then the cause of the diminution of length must exist in the bone, and be the result of fracture. This may be determined by another admeasurement, made between the apex of the trochanter major and the lower point of the patella. Let it not be said that these directions are too obvious to deserve attention: they must be followed carefully; and before the student commence his dissection, he should have himself made and repeated the observations here advised; have impressed well upon his memory the relative position of each landmark; and have cut down upon the artery at various points. By such means he will gain confidence in his knowledge and precision in the performance of surgical operations. Again, in displace- ment of the ends of the bone from fracture of the femur, it is of the greatest importance to their proper adjust- ment, that he be well acquainted with the position of the patella in relation to the spines of the ilium and pubis. The lower extremity is divided anatomically into seve- ral distinct compartments or regions, the separate and relative study of which serves materially to facilitate the student’s apprehension of the whole. The regions of the thigh are, the anterior femoral, internal femoral, gluteal, posterior femoral, and popliteal; of the leg, the anterior11 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. tibial, fibular, sural, or superficial posterior tibial, and deep posterior tibial; of the foot, the dorsal and plantar regions. Anterior Femoral Region. The dissection of the anterior femoral region is best commenced by making an incision {Jig. 1. l.) from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium along the line of Poupart’s ligament to the spinous process of the pubis, then carrying a second, 2. along the course of the femoral artery to the inner condyle of the femur, and bounding it inferiorly by a third, carried transversely across the head of the tibia. The student then nips up the integument with his forceps at the upper angle, and dissects back that layer so as to expose the superficial fascia beneath, and form a broad flap upon the outer side of the limb. He then turns to the opposite side, and repeats the same proceeding. But the student who handles a scalpel for the first time, will not find its application so easy as this description would lead him to infer. If he ‘.examine the edge of his blade attentively with a lens, he will perceive that it is actually a microscopic saw. Now a saw divides by being drawn across the material to be cut; and no direct force applied to the saw, would carry it through the substance without this motion. Let him apply this reasoning to his scalpel, it must be handled lightly, and drawn without pressure across the textures to be divided : if he use force and pressure, the best edge would be useless in his hands. The art of dissecting with neatness and operating with dexterity, owes much to the good understanding existing between the knife and the hand; and the best operators have ever been the best dissectors. If the student have reflected the integument well, he will have exposed the superficial fascia, which may be known by its soft yellow surface, studded with vesicles of fat, surrounded with the white areolaa of cellular tissue in which they are contained. The under surface of the in- tegument, the corium of the skin, will appear quite white, and present a number of depressions, corresponding Avith the fatty depositions in the superficial fascia. The supcrjicial fascia is composed of two layers, be- tween which are situated the cutaneous vessels and. nerves. To examine these, incisions may be made through its superficial layer in the same direction with those pre- b 612 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND NERVES. viously described,! and this structure dissected back. The parts to be examined in the superficial fascia are Inguinal glands, Superficial circumflexa ilii artery, epigastric artery, external pudic artery, Internal saphenous vein, and its tributaries, External, middle, and internal cutaneous nerves. The inguinal glands are situated in clusters along the line of Poupart’s ligament, and near the termination of the saphenous vein. They receive the cutaneous lymph- atic vessels from the lower extremity, lower part of the abdomen, and genital organs. The three small arteries, the superficialcircumjlexa ilii, the superficial epigastric, and the superficial external pudic, are the first branches of the femoral artery. They pierce the deep fascia immediately beneath Poupart’s ligament, and are distributed to the skin and superficial fascia: the circumflexa ilii taking its course along Poupart’s ligament towards the crest of the ilium ; the epigastric ascending upon the abdomen towards the umbilicus; and the pudic passing inwards to the scrotum, or labia pudendi. The internal saphenous vein, fig. 1. 9., (tra^yy;?, per- spicuous, obvious) of considerable size, sometimes con- sisting of two parallel trunks, receives its current of blood from the superficial veins of the inner side of the foot, leg, and thigh, along which it runs, and terminates in the femoral vein near the pubic extremity of Poupart’s liga- ment, by passing through an aperture in the deep fascia, named, from this office, saphenous opening, n. Just as the vein curves inwards to enter this opening, it receives a number of small veins, 10., which converge from the abdomen, hip, and genital organs. These vessels play a conspicuous part in femoral hernia, and, therefore, must not be passed over without remark. The saphenous vein is accompanied by superficial lymphatic vessels through- out the whole of its course. The external cutaneous nerve, fig. 1. 12. (cutis, the skin) is derived from the second lumbar nerve, and pierces the fascia lata at about two inches below the an- terior superior spine of the ilium, where it divides into two sets of branches, one of which crosses the tensor vagina;13 FASCIA LATA. SAPHENOUS OPENING. femoris muscle to the outer and posterior side of the thigh ; the other, consisting of two or three nerves, is distributed along the external and anterior border of the thigh, as far as the knee. The middle cutaneous nerves, 13., two or three in num- ber, are branches of the anterior crural nerve : they pierce the deep fascia, at variable distances, below Poupart’s ligament, to be distributed to the superficial fascia and integument on the front of the thigh as low down as the knee. The internal cutaneous nerve is the crural division of the genito-c.rural nerve; it pierces the deep fascia at about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, and runs down the inner side of the thigh towards the knee. When these structures have been well examined, the deep layer of superficial fascia may be removed, in order to bring into view the deep fascia. The deep fascia of the thigh, from being the most ex- tensive in the body, is named fascia lata (latus, broad). It is an extremely dense membrane, consisting of glistening tendinous fibres, disposed longitudinally and circularly around the limb ; is thickest upon the outer side of the thigh, and thinner upon its inner side. The fascia lata envelopes the whole of the muscles of the thigh, and sends processes inwards, which form distinct sheaths for each. It is attached above to the prominent points about the pelvis, viz., to the pubis, Poupart’s ligament, crest of the ilium, sacrum, and ischium; below, to the condyles of the femur and patella ; and behind, to the linea aspera. Besides these, it has two muscular attachments, one by means of the tensor vaginae femoris ; the other through the gluteus maximus. It is perforated at several points for the passage of the cutaneous nerves, and near to the pubis is the saphenous opening. The existence of this opening, fig. 1. n., causes the division of the upper part of the fascia lata into two por- tions, an iliac portion situated towards the ilium, and a pubic portion towards the pubis. The iliac portion is attached along Poupart’s ligament, as far as the spine of the pubis ; from this point it is reflected downwards, in a curved direction, forming a sharp edge, called the falciform process (falx, a sickle). The edge of the falci-14< SAPHENOUS OPENING. CRIBRIFORM FASCIA. form process immediately overlays and is reflected upon the sheath of the femoral vessels; and the lower ex- tremity of the curve is continuous with the pubic por- tion. The 'pubic portion is also attached to the spine of the pubis, and along the pectineal line, as far as the inner border of the psoas muscle: here it divides into two layers, which embrace that muscle and the iliacus, and are then lost in the fascial coverings surrounding the different muscles on the outer side of the thigh. From this description, it will be obvious that the iliac portion, being attached to Poupart’s ligament, must be on a plane considerably anterior to the pubic portion, which is attached to the bone; and it is between the two that the femoral vessels are placed, enclosed in their sheath. It follows also from this disposition that the saphenous opening is oblique in its direction with regard to these two layers of fascia. It is, moreover, closed by some dense cellular tissue, which is perforated by a num- ber of minute openings for the transmission of the super- ficial lymphatic vessels of the lower extremity, and is hence named cribriform fascia (cribrum, a sieve). This cribriform fascia would be altogether unworthy the no- tice of the dissector, were it not for the arbitrary import- ance attached to every fibre of membrane or process of fascia that may possess the slightest relation to the pro- trusion of intestine from the cavity of the abdomen. For this reason it is that the saphenous opening is so urgently recommended to the student’s attention ; and the cri- briform fascia, from its position, must necessarily form one of the coverings of the femoral hernia. The student may now remove the fascia lata, by dissecting it from its loose cellular attachment to the muscles, following always the course of theif fibres. If the student would dissect well, he must treasure this rule as a golden maxim,—“muscles must always be dissected in the course of their fibres.” And, let us remind him again (for we cannot too strenu- ously insist upon the application of the principles of dissection to the operations of surgery) that, in the liv- ing body, the same rule must be rigidly adhered to, if a successful issue be desired.MUSCLES. — ANTERIOR FEMORAL GROUP. 15 Muscles of the Anterior Femoral Region. The muscles of the anterior femoral region are ar- ranged in two groups, an anterior group, consisting of six Tensor vaginae femoris, Sartorius, Rectus, Vastus internus, Vastus externus, Crureus. And an internal group of seven, viz.: — Iliacus internus, Psoas magnus, Pectineus, Adductor longus,* Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus, Gracilis. As soon as these two tables are got by heart, the student may com- mence the dissection of the muscles which they represent. Anterior group.—The Tensorvagincefenioris(stretcher of the sheath of the thigh) is a short flat muscle, situated on the outer side of the hip. It arises from the crest of the ilium, near to its anterior superior spinous process, and is inserted between two layers of the fascia lata at about one third down the thigh. The Sartorius (tailor’s muscle) is a long riband-like muscle, arising from the curved notch, between the an- terior superior, and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium : it crosses obliquely the upper third of the thigh, descends behind the inner condyle of the femur, and is inserted by an aponeurotic expansion into the inner tuberosity of the tibia. This expansion covers in the insertion of the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus muscles. The upper border of the sartorius muscle is the guide to the operation for tying the femoral artery in the middle of its course. The Rectus (straight) muscle is fusiform in its shape and bipenniform in the disposition of its fibres: it arises by two round tendons — one from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the other from the upper muscles — / . kMUSCLES. 16 ANTERIOR FEMORAL GROUP. lip of the acetabulum. It is inserted by a broad and strong tendon into the upper border of the patella. It is more correct to consider the patella as a sesamoid bone, developed within the tendon of the rectus; and the liga- mentum patellae as the continuation of the tendon to its insertion into the spine of the tibia. The rectus must now be divided through its middle, and the two ends turned aside, to bring clearly into view the next muscles. The three next muscles are generally considered col- lectively under the name of triceps extensor cruris. Adopting this view, the muscle surrounds the whole of the femur, except the rough line (linea aspera) upon its posterior aspect. Its division into three parts is not well defined ; the fleshy mass upon each side being distin- guished by the names of vastus internus and externus, the middle portion by that of crureus. The Vastus externus, narrow below and broad above, arises from the outer border of the patella, and is inserted into the femur and outer side of the linea aspera, as high as the base of the trochanter major. The Vastus internus, broad below and narrow above, arises from the inner border of the patella, and is inserted into the femur and inner side of the linea aspera as high up as the trochanter minor. The Crureus (crus, the leg), arises from the upper border of the patella, and is inserted into the front aspect of the femur, as high as the anterior inter-trochanteric line. When the crureus is divided from its insertion, a small muscular fasciculus is often seen upon the lower part of the femur, which is inserted into the pouch of synovial membrane, that extends upwards from the knee-joint, behind the patella. This is named, from its situation, sub- crureus, and would seem to be intended to support the synovial membrane. Actions. — The tensor vagina femoris renders the fas- cia lata tense, and slightly inverts the limb. The sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, the thigh upon the pelvis, at the same time carrying the leg across that of the opposite side, into the position in which tailors sit ; hence its name. Taking its fixed point from below, it assists the extensor muscles in steadying the leg for the support of the trunk. The other four musclesJVIUSCLES. INTERNAL FEMORAL GROUP. 17 have been collectively named quadriceps extensor, from their similarity of action. They extend the leg upon the thigh, and obtain a great increase of power by their at- tachment to the patella, which acts as a fulcrum. Taking their fixed point from the tibia, they steady the femur upon the leg, and the rectus, by being attached to the pelvis, serves to balance the trunk upon the lower ex- tremity. Internal group.—The origins of the iliacus and psoas muscles being situated within the abdomen, the entire muscles cannot be seen in this dissection ; but as a part of them quit that cavity to be inserted into the femur, that portion necessarily belongs to the anatomy of the thigh. The Iliacus internus is a flat, radiated muscle : it arises from the inner concave surface of the ilium, and, after joining with the tendon of the psoas, is inserted into the trochanter minor of the femur. The Psoas magnus lumbus, a loin,) situated by the side of the vertebral column in the loins, is a long fusiform muscle. It arises from the intervertebral sub- stances, part of the bodies and bases of the transverse processes, and from a series of tendinous arches, thrown across the constricted portion of the last dorsal and four upper lumbar vertebrae. These arches are intended to protect the lumbar arteries and sympathetic filaments of nerves from pressure, in their passage beneath the muscle. The tendon of the psoas magnus unites with that of the iliacus, and the conjoined tendon is inserted into the pos- terior part of the trochanter minor. Two synovial bursae are found in relation with the two last muscles : the first of considerable size is situated be- tween their under surface and the border of the pelvis; the other much smaller is interposed between the con- joined tendon and the anterior part of the trochanter minor. The Pectineus is the flat quadrangular muscle which arises from the pectineal line (pecten, a crest) of the os pubis, and is inserted into the line leading from the tro- chanter minor to the linea aspera. The Adductor longus (adducere, to draw to), the most superficial of the three adductors, arises by a round ten- don from the angle of the os pubis, and, assuming a flat-MUSCLES. INTERNAL FEMORAL GROUP. 18 tened form, is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera. The pectineus must be divided near its origin and turned outwards, and the adductor longus through its middle, turning its ends to either side, to bring into view the adductor brevis. The Adductor brevis, placed beneath the pectineus and adductor longus, is fleshy, and thicker than the adductor longus : it arises from the body and ramus of the os pubis, and is inserted into the upper third of the linea aspera. It is pierced by the middle perforating artery, and sup- ports the anterior branch of the obturator nerve and artery. The adductor brevis may now be divided from its origin and turned outwards, or its inner two thirds may be cut away entirely, after separating the anterior branches of the obturator artery and nerve from its surface. This exposes the entire extent of the adductor magnus, and a fleshy mass of muscle which covers in the obturator foramen, — the obturator externus. The Obturator externus muscle (obturare, to stop up,) arises from the obturator membrane, and from the surface of bone immediately surrounding it, viz., from the body and ramus of the os pubis and ischium: its tendon passes behind the neck of the femur, to be inserted with the ex- ternal rotator muscles, into the digital fossa of the tro- chanter major. Although this muscle belongs properly to another group (glutaeal region), it has been deemed consistent with the object of this work to describe every organ which may come beneath the observation of the student in the progress of his dissection, in the precise situation which it actually occupies. The Adductor magnus is a broad and extensive muscle, forming a septum of division between the muscles situated on the anterior, and those on the posterior aspect of the thigh. It arises by fleshy fibres from the ramus and side of the tuberosity of the ischium, and radiating in its passage outwards, is inserted into the whole length of the linea aspera, and inner condyle of the femur. The adductor magnus is pierced by five openings : the three superior, for the three perforating arteries, and the fourth for the ter- mination of the profunda. The fifth is the large, oval open- ing in the tendinous portion of the muscle, that gives passage to the femoral vessels.FEMORAL ARTERY. 19 The Gracilis (slender) is situated along the inner bor- der of the thigh : it arises by a broad, but very thin, ten- don, from the edge of the ramus of the pubis and ischium, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the inner tuber- osity of the tibia, beneath the expansion of the sartorius. Actions. — The iliacus, psoas, pectineus, and adductor longus muscles bend the thigh upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, from the obliquity of their insertion into the lesser trochanter and linea aspera, rotate the entire limb outwards : the pectineus and adductors adduct the thigh powerfully ; and, from the manner of their insertion into the linea aspera, they assist in rotating the limb out- wards : the gracilis is likewise an adductor of the thigh, but contributes also to the flexion of the leg, by its at- tachment to the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Vessels of the Thigh. The arteries of the anterior aspect of the thigh are next to be examined: they are best dissected by following the branches through their ramifications from the main trunk. The scalpel may be carried along the side of their cylinder without danger of dividing their coats; but if it be turned in the opposite direction, they must inevitably be cut across. They are easily separated from the cellular tissue and adipose substance, and from the smaller veins which surround them. All the veins, excepting the main trunks, had better be removed at once, otherwise their intricacy and bleeding will greatly interfere with the student’s progress, and confuse his dissection. Femoral Artery. The arteries situated on the anterior aspect of the thigh are the femoral and its branches: they may be thus arranged: — Femoral artery. Branches. Superficial circumflex ilii. epigastric. external pudic. Deep external pudic. {External circumflex. Internal circumflex. Three perforating. Muscular. Anastomotica magna. The femoral artery and vein are inclosed in a sheath of condensed cellular substance. The sheath is broad and§0 FEMORAL ARTERY. COURSE. funnel-shaped above, but narrows considerably in its descent, and becomes more closely applied about the vessels. At the upper third of the thigh, two nerves become placed upon the sheath : these are the long and short saphenous branches of the anterior crural nerve. The larger of the two pierces the sheath and accom- panies the femoral vessels within its interior. The smaller lies upon the sheath till it arrives opposite the vastus internus muscle, to which it is distributed. Operation. — These nerves are found to observe the above relation to the femoral artery, in the operation for tying that vessel. The integument is first divided, then the superjicial fascia, next the deep Jascia; then the edge of the sartorius muscle is drawn aside, and the sheath of the vessels exposed, upon which lie these two saphenous nerves, and the operator is careful in opening the sheath to avoid injuring them. The Femoral artery runs down the inner side of the thigh, from Poupart’s ligament, at a point exactly midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and symphisis pubis, to the hole in the adductor magnus, at the junction of the middle with the inferior third of the thigh. The femoral vein is at first to the inner side, and upon the same plane with the artery, but lower down; the vein becomes placed behind the artery, and retains that relation throughout the rest of its course. Relations. — The upper third of the femoral artery is superficial, being covered only by the integument and superficial and deep fasciae. The lower two thirds are covered by the sartorius muscle. To its outer side the artery rests first against the psoas, next against the rectus, then against the vastus internus. Behind it has, first, the body of the pubis, then the tendon of the psoas and iliacus ; it is next separated from the pectineus by the femoral vein, profunda vein and artery, and then lies on the adductor longus to its termination: near the lower border of the adductor longus, it is placed in an aponeu- rotic canal, formed by an arch of tendinous fibres, thrown from the border of the adductor longus, and the border of the opening in the adductor magnus, to the side of the vastus internus.Tendon of psoas and iliacus. RELATIONS AND BRANCHES* I Adductor longus. 21 Plan of the relations of the femoral artery. Inner Side. Superiorly, the femoral vein. Branches. — The superficial circumflexa ilii, superficial epigastric, superficial and deep external pudics, are four small arteries given off from the femoral, immediately be- low Poupart’s ligament. The distribution of the first three has been described at page 12. The superficial epigastric and superficial pudic are important, from their connection with hernial tumours occurring in this region : we have seen both of them crossing an inguinal, and the latter ramifying upon a femoral hernia. In the operation they are liable to division; but, from their small size, would cause very little inconvenience. The deep external pudic is so named from being placed beneath the fascia lata : it is given off from the femoral about an inch below the superficial pudic, and, at the inner border of the thigh, pierces the fascia, to be dis- tributed to the integuments of the scrotum and labium pudendi. The Profunda femoris artery is given off from the fe- moral, at two inches below Poupart’s ligament. From its large size, it may be considered as a division of the femoral rather than a branch : and, in this view, the short trunk has been called the common femoral (femoralis com- munis), and its two divisions, femoralis superficialis and femoralis profunda ; the superficial femoral being in- tended for the supply of the knee and leg, while the pro- funda is distributed to the thigh. The profunda artery is best examined by removing the superficial femoral, and dissecting away the femoral and profunda veins, that con- Front. Fascia lata. Saphenous nerves. Sartorius. Outer Side. Psoas. Rectus. Vastus internus. Behind. Os pubis. Femoral vein.22 PROFUNDA ARTERY. ceal the artery from view. The adductor longus would also be dissected from its insertion with advantage. The Course of the profunda artery is downwards and backwards, and a little outwards, behind the adductor longus muscle ; it then pierces the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the ham-string muscles. Relations.— It rests successively upon the conjoined tendon of the psoas and iliacus, the pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus muscles. To its outer side, the ten- dinous insertion of the vastus internus muscle intervenes beween it and the femur, and in front it is separated from the femoral artery above by the profunda vein and femoral vein; and below by the adductor longus muscle. Plan of the relations of the profunda artery. In Front. Profunda vein. Adductor longus. Outer Side. Vastus internus femur. Behind. Tendon of psoas and iliacus. Pectineus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. The branches of the profunda artery are the external circumflex, internal circumflex, and three perforating ar- teries. The External circumflex artery passes outwards between the divisions of the crural nerve, then between the rectus and crureus muscles, and divides into three branches; ascending, which inosculates with the terminal branches of the gluteal artery; descending, which inosculates with the superior external articular artery ; and middle, which continues the original course of the artery around the thigh, and anastomoses with branches of the ischiatic, internal circumflex, and superior perforating arteries. It supplies the muscles on the anterior and outer side of the thigh. The Internal circumflex artery winds around the inner side of the neck of the femur, passing between the pec- Profunda artery.23 perforating arteries. tineus and psoas, and along the border of the external obturator muscle, to the space between the quadratus femoris and upper border of the adductor magnus, where it anastomoses with the ischiatic, external circumflex, and superior perforating arteries. It supplies the muscles on the upper and inner side of the thigh, anastomosing with the obturator artery, and sends a small branch through the notch in the acetabulum into the hip-joint. The Superior perforating artery passes backwards be- tween the pectineus and adductor brevis, pierces the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the posterior mus- cles of the thigh ; inosculating freely with the circumflex and ischiatic arteries, and with the branches of the mid- dle perforating artery. The Middle perforating artery pierces the adductor brevis and magnus, and is distributed like the superior ; inosculating with the superior and inferior perforantes. It gives off the nutritious artery of the femur. The Inferior perforating artery is given off below the adductor brevis, and pierces the adductor magnus, sup- plying it and the flexor muscles, and inosculating with the middle perforating artery above, and the articular branches of the popliteal below. It is through the medium of these branches, that the collateral circulation is maintained in the limb after ligature of the femoral artery. We now return to the superficial femoral: its muscular branches are distributed on either side to the adjacent muscles. The Anastomotica magna arises from the femoral, while in the tendinous canal formed by the adductors and vas- tus internus. It runs along the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner condyle, and inosculates with the superior internal articular artery : some of its branches are distributed to the vastus internus muscle, and the crureus, and terminate by anastomosing with the descend- ing branches of the external circumflex and superior ex- ternal articular artery. When the pectineus muscle is divided through its origin and turned down, a small artery will be seen issuing from the opening in the upper part of the obturator membrane; this is the obturator artery, a branch of the internal iliac.24 NERVES. — ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. The Obturator artery, after passing through the ob- turator foramen, divides into two branches ; anterior, which rests upon the adductor brevis, supplying that muscle, together with the pectineus and adductor longus: and posterior, which follows the direction of the obturator externus muscle to the space between the gemellus in- ferior and quadratus femoris, where it inosculates with the ischiatic artery. It sends a branch through the notch in the acetabulum to the hip-joint. The Veins in this region, as in every other of the body, are superficial and deep. The superficial, are the internal saphenous, and its tributaries. The deep, are the femoral and profunda, with their tributaries. The femoral vein commences at the hole in the adductor magnus, and as- cends behind the artery to within two inches of Poupart’s ligament, where it receives the profunda vein ; it then becomes placed to the inner side of the artery, and con- tinues in that position to Poupart’s ligament. After pass- ing beneath the ligament, it receives the name of external iliac vein. The profunda vein, commencing with the ultimate ramifications of the profunda artery, ascends in front of that vessel to its origin from the common femoral artery, when it joins the femoral vein. The tributary veins are those accompanying the branches of the main arteries. They are usually two to each branch, one on either side: hence they are called vence comites. They communicate freely across the cylinder of the artery by short transverse trunks. Veins are considerably larger than the arteries which they accompany. Nerves of the Anterior Femoral Region. The student will now direct his attention to the nerves of this region, fig. 2. They are all derived from the lumbar plexus : and are the External cutaneous, Genito-crural, {Cutaneous branches. Muscular, Saphenous. Obturator. The External cutaneous nerve, 4., is described with the superficial layer at page 12. The crural portion of the i25 CRURAL NERVE. genito-crural nerve, 5., forming the internal cutaneous nerve of the thigh, has also been de- scribed (page 13.) The Crural or femoral nerve, G., is the largest of the branches from the lumbar plexus. It is formed by the union of the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, passes beneath the outer border of the psoas magnus muscle, and runs downwards in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus internus to Pou- part’s ligament. It is there se- parated from the femoral artery by the breadth of the psoas muscle, usually not more than half an inch wide ; and imme- diately below Poupart’s liga- ment divides into three sets of branches: —Cutaneous— fig. 1. 13. fig. 2. 8. ; three or four in number which pierce the deep fascia to supply the integument, forming the middle cutaneous nerves on the forepart of the thigh. One or two of these will be seen to pass through the sar- torius muscle. Muscular—fig. 2. 7. distributed to the muscles on the forepart and outer side of the thigh : and Saphenous — fig. 2. 9. Two long branches larger than the others, which * Fig. 2. The lumbar plexus with its branches. No. 1. The dorsi-lumbar nerve. 2. The four upper lumbar nerves. 3. The two musculo-cutaneous nerves, branches of the first lumbar nerve. 4. The external cutaneous nerve. 5. The genito- crural nerve. 6. The crural or femoral nerve. 7. Its muscular branches. 8. Its cutaneous branches, middle cutaneous. 9. Its descending or saphenous branches. 10. The short saphenous nerve. 11. The long or internal saphenous. 12. The obturator nerve, C26 FEMORAL HERNIA. incline inwards to the sheath of the vessels, upon which they rest for some distance. The smaller of the two is the short saphenous nerve, 10. : it leaves the sheath at the lower third of the thigh, and is distributed to the vastus interims muscle. The larger is the long, or in- ternal saphenous nerve, ll.: it usually enters the sheath, and accompanies the artery, until that vessel is about to pass through the opening in the adductor magnus. The nerve then pierces the aponeurotic canal of the artery, passes between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis, and gets into relation with the internal saphenous vein, by the side of which it descends along the inner side of the leg, in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner border of the foot and side of the great toe, supplying it and the integuments in its course. The Obturator nerve, 12. is formed by a branch from the third, and another from the fourth lumbar nerve. The nerve runs along the inner border of the brim of the pelvis, to the obturator foramen, where it joins the obtu- rator artery. Having escaped from the pelvis, it divides into two branches — anterior, which passes in front of the adductor brevis, supplying that muscle, the pectineus, and adductor longus, and sending a branch downwards to join the long saphenous nerve ; and a posterior branch which passes downwards behind the adductor brevis, sup- plying it, the obturator externus, and the adductor magnus. We advise the student to have made himself thoroughly master of this region and of each, before he venture to direct his attention to another, and to proceed methodically, following with care every line of proceeding here pointed out, unless, indeed, he can himself suggest a better or one more familiar to his mode of study, for we are well convinced that the same plan will not be found advantageous to all. Let him question his knowledge upon each of the preceding sections, and remark the adage “ Memoria augetur ex colendo.” Femoral Hernia. After proceeding, as we have here directed, with the common anatom)'- of the anterior femoral region, the student may now turn his attention to the special ana- tomy of that portion of the region through which the intestine finds its way in femoral hernia. With this ob-FEMORAL ARCH. 27 ject the sheath of the vessels should have been left undisturbed. If now the scalpel be carried along the line of Pou- part’s ligament, cutting through the intervening structures down to the bone, and leaving only the common femoral artery and vein enclosed in their sheath (fig- 3.), it will be seen that Poupart’s ligament, which is extended from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis, forms a considerable arch over the concave border of the pelvis. This is the femoral arch, and beneath it will be seen to pass a number of important * Fig. 3. A section of the structures which leave the pelvis through the femoral arch ; — the vessels aud their sheath only, being left. No. 1. Poupart’s ligament, the upper boundary of the femoral arch. 2. Its lower boundary, the border of the pubis and ilium. 3. The anterior superior spine of the ilium. 4. The spine of the pubis. 5. The pectineal line of the pubis. 6. The external cutaneous nerve. 7. The iliacus muscle. 8. The crural nerve. 9. The psoas magnus muscle. 10. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. 11. The femoral artery. 12. The femoral vein, receiving the internal saphenous vein, which pierces the sheath to open into it. 13. The external portion of the sheath of the femoral vessels, lying in contact with the artery. 14. The large funnel-shaped cavity in the sheath, to the inner side of the vein, which receives the sac of femoral hernia. 15. The femoral ring, bounded in front by Poupart’s ligament, behind by the pubis, externally by the femoral vein, and internally by (1G.) Gimbernat’s ligament. c 228 FEMORAL HERNIA. structures. They are disposed in the following order from without, inwards: — The external cutaneous nerve, 6. Iliacus internus muscle, 7. Anterior crural nerve, 8. Psoas magnus muscle, 9. Crural division of the genito-crural nerve, 10. Femoral artery, n.'| Femoral vein, 12. j- enclosed in a common sheath. Lymphatic vessels, J The sheath, 13. 14., of the femoral vessels is the fibrous covering which invests the artery and vein during their passage beneath the femoral arch. It is formed by the internal lining of the abdomen; and as this has received various names, according to the situations it may occupy, as transversalis fascia, iliac fascia, pelvic fascia, although actually but one and the same membrane, so the sheath is said to be formed in front by the transver- salis fascia, to the outer side, by the iliac fascia, and to the inner side by the pelvic fascia; for Poupart’s liga- ment is the line of union of these three regions of the internal abdominal fascia; and in escaping immediately beneath Poupart’s ligament the vessels necessarily carry with them a part of each. The breadth of the sheath of the vessels at Poupart’s ligament is two inches, and in the female more; but at four inches belowT the ligament, the sheath has diminished to three quarters of an inch. Now it is obvious that the artery and vein, placed side by side, cannot occupy an area two inches in breadth, and therefore that there must be either some other struc- ture situated within the sheath, or an imperfectly filled space. The latter is the fact; for, if we open the sheath, we shall see a space, 14., to the inner side of the vein, which is only occupied by loose cellular tissue, lymphatic vessels, and a lymphatic gland. So that the inner wall of the sheath is separated by a considerable interval from the vein, while the outer wall, 13., is in close contact, and adherent to the artery. The lymphatic gland is placed immediately under Pou- part’s ligament, and may be easily pushed into the cavityDIRECTION AND COVERINGS. 29 of the abdomen by using very slight pressure with the finger. The opening, 15., thus produced by the finger is the femoral ring: it is bounded in front by Poupart’s liga- ment, l., behind by the body of the pubis, 2., to the outer side by the femoral vein, 12., and to the inner side by Gimbernat’s ligament, 16. This ligament is one insertion of Poupart’s ligament, which expands in a radi- ated form to be attached along the sharp edge of the pectineal line. If the student, before passing his finger through the femoral ring from the sheath, should attempt to press it from within the abdomen, after tearing away the perito- neum, he will find an obstacle in a thin cellular mem- brane which is spread across the opening at its entrance: this is the septum crurale. Now the course which the intestine follows in femoral hernia may be thus described. It first descends through the femoral ring into the sheath of the vessels, carrying with it the peritoneum and septum crurale. Secondly, it advances forwards through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, this being the weakest side of the sheath of the vessels. In this part of its course it gains two addi- tional coverings, viz. the sheath of the vessels called u fascia propria,” and the perforated cellular tissue before described (page 14.) as forming the cribriform fascia. Thirdly, coming in contact with the numerous small veins which open at this point into the saphenous vein, and spread before the descending hernia like a net, it is prevented from farther descent, and is pressed upwards over Poupart’s ligament. To return it again to the cavity of the abdomen we must pursue the converse of the direction which is fol- lowed in its descent, i. e. we must press it first downwards below Poupart’s ligament, then backwards through the saphenous opening, then upwards through the femoral ring. But should the intestine be strangulated, that is, nipped in its passage, so as to arrest the progress of the aliment, and by distension and pressure cause obstruction to the circulation of the blood, and endanger the life of the patient, we must have recourse to an operation for its c 330 FEMORAL HERNIA. OPERATION. relief. This operation consists in dividing carefully all the structures covering the hernia, down to the intestine. The surgeon must, therefore, know well what parts are likely to meet his knife in the living dissection. Two of these are common to the whole body, and must be di- vided in every operation; the others are peculiar to the region: they are The integument, Superficial fascia, Cribriform fascia, Fascia propria (sheath of the vessels), Septum crurale, Peritoneal sac. After opening the peritoneal sac, the surgeon exa- mines the intestine and feels for the stricture. This is generally at the margin of the femoral ring; and, intro- ducing his finger nail beneath this margin, he divides it slightly with a blunt-pointed bistoury, and returns the intestine into the abdomen, after having satisfied himself of its uninjured condition. Now the student might ask, What structure produces the stricture? or what band, being thus slightly divided, so immediately liberates it ? Let him make this expe- riment on the dead body. Cut through Poupart’s liga- ment while the finger is forced through the femoral ring: the constriction is not removed. Cut Gimbernat’s liga- ment, the inner boundary of the ring, the constriction still remains ; but cut a thin fibrous band which crosses the vessels beneath Poupart’s ligament, and the ring falls instantly flaccid. This is the margin of the unopened sheath of the vessels, and therefore must be the seat of the stricture. This is the anatomical principle of practice in every case of femoral hernia; and pursued in this way no danger is incurred to the patient. But if the operator be a bad dissector, and, by a necessary consequence, a bad operator, he may, instead of loosening the ring by the slight manoeuvre here described, carry his incision alto- gether through Poupart’s ligament, or very likely still far- ther, and cut across the spermatic or epigastric artery, and so complete the operation with the life of his patient.31 GLUTEAL REGION.—DISSECTION. Such an operator should be forewarned that a variety in the distribution of the arteries sometimes occurs in the vicinity of the femoral ring; and unless he be guarded, his reputation may be for ever destroyed by an unfortu- nate complication of this kind. This variety consists in the origin of the obturator artery, from the epigastric immediately above the femoral ring. The artery arising in this situation, descends most frequently in contact with the external iliac vein, and would therefore be placed to the outer side of the hernial sac, and be comparatively safe. But sometimes the obturator encircles the ring in its course to the obturator foramen, winding along on the margin of Gimbernat’s ligament, and would necessarily occupy a very dangerous position in the operation, actually encircling the neck of the hernial sac, and might be wounded by the most skilful operator. Therefore the safety of the patient demands that the surgeon should always conduct his operation as if his patient were the subject of this anomalous distribution, and he may then reflect upon his conduct even after an unsuccessful issue with confidence and satisfaction.* Gluteal Region. The subject being turned on its face, and a block placed beneath the pubis to support the pelvis, the student commences the dissection of this region, by carrying an incision from the apex of the coccyx along the crest of the ilium to its anterior superior spinous process, or vice versa, if he be on the left side. He then makes an incision from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, to the apex of the trochanter major: this marks the upper border of the gluteus maxi- mus; and a third incision from the apex of the coccyx along the fleshy margin of the lower border of the gluteus maximus, to the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below the apex of the tro- chanter major. He then reflects the integument, superficial fascia, and deep fascia, which latter is very thin over this muscle, from the gluteus maximus, following rigidly the course of its fibres; and having exposed the muscle in its entire extent, he dissects the integument and superficial fascia from off the deep fascia which binds down the gluteus medius, the other portion of this region. * 1 he author has met with five or six instances of this dan- gerous distribution in about 300 bodies, which is a large average. In a preparation now before him, a large branch of communication between the epigastric and obturator arteries takes that remarkable course along the margin of Gimbernat’s ligament, leaving the femoral ring to its outer side. C 4;GLUTEAL REGION.— MUSCLES. £2 The muscles of the gluteal region are, Gluteus maximus, medius, minimus, Pyriformis, Gemellus superior, Obturator internus, Gemellus inferior, Obturator externus, Quadratus femoris. The Gluteus maximus (yXovro;, nates) is the thick, fleshy mass of muscle, of a quadrangular shape, which forms the convexity of the nates. In structure, it is ex- tremely coarse, being made up of large fibres, which are collected into fasciculi, and these again into distinct mus- cular masses, separated by deep cellular furrows. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, from the border of the sacrum and coccyx, and from the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. It passes obliquely out- wards and downwards, to be inserted into the rough line leading from the trochanter major to the linea aspera, and is continuous by means of its tendon with the fascia lata, covering the outer side of the thigh. After this muscle has been sufficiently studied, it must be turned down from its origin. Its dissection, however, from the parts beneath demands considerable care, as a number of arteries and nerves are situated immediately below it. The Gluteus medius is placed in front rather than be- neath the gluteus maximus, and is covered in by a pro- cess of the deep fascia, which is very thick and dense. It arises from the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for four fifths of its length, from the surface of bone between that border, and the superior curved line on the dorsum ilii, and from the dense fascia above mentioned. Its fibres converge to the upper part of the trochanter major, into which its tendon is inserted. This muscle should now be removed from its origin and turned down, so as to expose the next which is situated beneath it. The Gluteus minimus [Jig. 4. 1.) is a pretty, radiated muscle, arising from the surface of the dorsum ilii, be-ISCHIATIC OPENINGS. S3 tween the superior and inferior curved lines : its fibres converge to the anterior border of the trochanter major, into which it is inserted by means of a rounded tendon. To understand the exact relations and origins of the next muscles, the student should consult his skeleton. - Upon the posterior and lateral aspect of the pelvis, he will find a considerable vacuity. This is broken in upon by a sharp spinous process projected from the border of the ischium, the spine of the ischium: the excavated sweep immediately above this spine is called the great sacro-ischiatic notch, in contra-distinction to another sweep beneath the spine, named the lesser sacro-ischiatic notch ; and the lesser sacro-ischiatic notch is bounded inferiorly by a thick tubercle, the tuberosity of the ischium. In the subject, the narrow extremity of a radiated ligament is attached to the spine of the ischium, while its expanded end is connected to the side of the sacrum and coccyx : hence it is named sacro-ischiatic, and is known by the cog- nomina, lesser and anterior, which serve to distinguish itfrom another ligament, radiated at each extremity, attached by the broader end to the posterior spinous process of the ilium, the side of the sacrum and coccyx, and by its smaller end to the inner border of the tuberosity of the ischium. This ligament is necessarily longer than the former, and more posterior : hence it is named the posterior or great sacro-ischiatic ligament. These two ligaments convert the notches into foramina, which are thence called the superior or great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and the in- ferior or lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. Let us now pro- ceed to the muscles, fig. 4. The Pyriformis muscle, 3., (pyrum, a pear, i. e. pear- shaped) arises from the anterior surface of the sacrum, by little slips that are interposed between the anterior sacral foramina. It passes out of the pelvis, through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. Immediately below the pyriformis is a small slip of muscle, the Gemellus superior (gemellus, double, twin): it arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the upper border of the tendon of the obturator interims, and into the digital fossa of the trochanter major.GLUTEAL REGION. MUSCLES. 34> The Obturator internus arises from the inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis, being attached to the margin of bone around the obturator foramen, and to the obturator membrane. It passes out of the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a flattened tendon into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. The lesser sacro-ischiatic notch, over which this muscle plays as through a pulley, is faced with cartilage, and provided with a synovial bursa to facilitate its move- ments. The tendon of the obturator is supported on each side by the two gemelli muscles (hence their names), which are inserted into the sides of the tendon, and ap- pear to be auxiliaries or superadded portions of the ob- turator internus. The Gemellus inferior arises from the posterior point of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the lower border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. Placed deeply between the gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris, may be seen the tendon of the ob- turator externus, becoming more superficial as it passes outwards to its insertion into the digital fossa of the trochanter major: it arises from the external surface of the obturator ligament, and from the margin of bone immediately surrounding it. (Page 18.) The Quadratus femoris, 5. (square-shaped) arises from the external border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into a rough line on the posterior border of the trochanter major, which is thence named linea quadrati. Actions. — The glutei muscles are abductors of the thigh, when they take their fixed point from the pelvis. Taking their fixed point from the thigh, they steady the pelvis on the head of the femur : this action is peculiarly obvious in standing on one leg : they assist also in carrying the leg forward, in progression. The gluteus minimus be- ing attached to the anterior border of the trochanter major, rotates the limb slightly inwards. The gluteus medius and maximus, from their insertion into the posterior aspect of the bone, rotate the limb outwards: the latter is, moreover, a tensor of the fascia of the thigh. The other muscles rotate the limb outwards, everting the knee and foot; hence they are named external rotators.35 c 6 VESSELS AND NERVES. Vessels and Nerves of the Gluteal Region. Arteries. f Superficial branch. Gluteal, 4 Deep superior branch. (_ Deep inferior branch. f Coccygeal. Ischiatic. 4 Inferior gluteal. (_ Comes nervi ischiatici. Internal pudic. Nerves. Superficial. Gluteal. Deep superior. Deep inferior. Inferior gluteal. Posterior internal Lesser J cutaneous. Ischiatic. | Posterior middle cutaneous. Muscular. Great Ischiatic. Internal pudic. The gluteal artery and nerve {fig. 4-. 11.) are found immediately above the py- riformis muscle; the other vessels and nerves, 12. 14., immediately beneath that muscle. The Gluteal artery is a branch of the internal iliac; it passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro- ischiatic foramen, above tbe pyriformis muscle, and im- mediately divides into three branches. 1st. A superficial branch, directed backwards, and distributed to the glu- teus maximus. 2. A deep st^morbranch,which passes along the superior curved line of the dorsum of the ilium, between the gluteus * Fig. 4. A deep posterior view of the anatomy of the hip; — showing the muscles, vessels, and nerves, which are exposed by the removal of the gluteus maximus muscle. No. 1. The gluteus minimus muscle. 2. The trochanter major of the femur. 3. The pyriformis muscle. 4. The tendon of the ob- turator intemus muscle, bounded above by the gemellus superior,36 ISCHIATIC artery. metlius and minimus, to the anterior superior spinous pro- cess, where it terminates by anastomosing with the superfi- cial circumflexa ilii and external circumflex arteries. It is distributed to the gluteus medius and minimus muscles. 3. A deep inferior branch, which descends obliquely upon the gluteus minimus muscle to the trochanter major, and inosculates with the external circumflex artery. The arteries in this region are all branches of the in- ternal iliac within the pelvis, and the nerves are derived from the sacral plexus ; hence, a part of their course can- not, at present, be seen. They all quit the pelvis thruogh the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. The Ischiatic artery, one of the terminal branches of the internal iliac, escapes from the pelvis beneath the pyriformis muscle, and passes downwards with the is- chiatic nerves, in the interval between the tuberosity of the ischium and the trochanter major. It gives off three branches. 1st. Coccygeal, which pierces the great sacro- ischiatic ligament, and is distributed to the coccygeus and levator ani muscles, and to the integument about the coccyx. 2. Inferior gluteal, — several muscular branches supplying the lower part of the gluteus maximus. 3. Comes nervi ischiatici (companion to the ischiatic nerve), a small but long and regular branch, which accompanies the great ischiatic nerve. Besides these, branches are distributed to the neighbouring muscles, the external ro- tators. The ischiatic artery inosculates with all the sur- rounding arteries, viz. with the gluteal, internal pudic, obturator, the external and internal circumflex, and su- perior perforating of the profunda. The Internal pudic artery, 14., the other terminal branch of the internal iliac, also issues from the pelvis, and below by the gemellus inferior. 5. The quadratus femoris muscle. 6. The adductor magnus. 7. The vastus externus muscle. 8. The long head of the biceps. 9. The semitendinosus. 10. The gracilis. 11. The gluteal artery and nerve, escaping from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle. 12. The great ischiatic nerve. 13. The lesser ischiatic nerve, and between the two the ischiatic artery. 14. The pudic artery and nerve. All these vessels and nerves pass out from the pelvis below the pyriformis muscle. 15. The great or posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament. * The tuberosity of the ischium. 16. The posterior branches of the sacral nerves.LESSER ISCHIATIC NERVE. 37 through the great ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis, to disappear immediately beneath the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, and pursue its course within the pelvis. From the description usually given of this artery, the student might imagine that its course was extremely ec- centric, going out of the pelvis and then going in. But if he refer again to his skeleton and to the subject, he will see that the artery forms the most gentle curve imaginable in this part of its course; and that its various relation to the pelvis depends entirely upon the projection inwards of the spine of the ischium, upon which the artery, with its vein and nerve, rest in this region. Upon entering, then, the lesser ischiatic foramen, the internal pudic artery crosses the lower part of the ob- turator interims muscle to the ramus of the ischium, along which, and the ramus of the pubis, it ascends to the symphisis. Its branches are distributed to the perineum. The Veins, as in all the secondary arteries of the body, are placed by the sides of the arteries in pairs, which are called “ voice comites.” Nerves of the Gluteal Region. The Gluteal nerve (Jig. 4.11 .,Jlg. 6. 2.) is a branch of the lumbo-sacral (5th lumbar): it leaves the pelvis with the gluteal artery, and distributes filaments with each arterial branch. The Lesser ischiatic nerve [fig. 4. 13. Jig. 6. 6.) is a branch of the sacral plexus ; it passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen beneath the pyriformis muscle, and divides into four sets of branches. 1st. Inferior gluteal, supplying the lower part of the gluteus maxim us. 2. Internal posterior cutaneous, a branch that winds around the tuberosity of the ischium, and supplies the integument of the perineum and of the inner and posterior side of the thigh. 3. Middle pos- terior cutaneous, one or two branches which pierce the fascia, and run down the middle of the posterior aspect of the thigh, supplying the integument. 4. The proper continuation of the nerve upon the flexor muscles as far as the popliteal region.38 POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. The Great ischiatic nerve (Jiff. 4. 12., Jig. 6. 7.) is the largest in the body ; it is formed by the sacral plexus, or rather it is a prolongation of the plexus. At its exit from the great sacro-ischiatic foramen beneath the pyriformis, it measures three quarters of an inch in breadth. It descends through the middle of the space between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium into the thigh. In its course it rests on the gemellus superior tendon of the obturator internus, gemellus inferior, and quadratus femoris muscles, and in the thigh upon the adductor magnus muscle: it is covered in by the three flexor muscles of the leg. While in the gluteal region, it gives off merely a few muscular branches. This nerve is sometimes formed of two portions, one of which pierces the pyriformis muscle. At other times, the two portions remain separate all the way down the thigh. The Internal pudic nerve [Jig.\. 14. Jig. 6. 5.), also a branch of the sacral plexus, follows the course and dis- tribution of the internal pudic artery, giving off filaments with each of its branches. Posterior Femoral Region. Carry an incision along the middle of the posterior aspect of the thigh, as far as the bend of the knee. Bound it in this situation by a transverse incision, and reflect the integument to either side. In the superficial fascia will be seen the two cutaneous branches of the lesser ischiatic nerve, and two or three cutaneous branches from the great ischiatic. Upon removing the superficial fascia, the deep fascia will be found to be extremely thin ; and, on turning it aside, we bring into view the three muscles of this region, the flexors of the leg — Biceps. Semi-tendinosus. Semi-membranosus. The Biceps Jlexor cruris (bi, double—caput,head) arises by two heads, one by a common tendon with the semi- tendinosus ; the other muscular, and much shorter, from the lower two thirds of the external border of the linea aspera. This muscle forms the outer ham-string, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the head of the fibula.39 MUSCLES AND ARTERIES. The Semi-tendinosus, remarkable for its long tendon, arises in common with the long head of the biceps from the tuberosity of the ischium. It is inserted into the inner tuberosity of the tibia. These two muscles must be dissected from the tu- berosity of the ischium to bring into view the origin of the next. The Semimembranosus, remarkable for the tendinous expansion upon its anterior and posterior surfaces, arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, in front of the com- mon origin of the two preceding muscles. It is inserted into the posterior part of the head of the tibia; at its insertion, the tendon splits into three portions, one of which is inserted in a groove on the inner side of the head of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament. The second is continuous, with an aponeurotic expansion that binds down the popliteus muscle: the popliteal fascia; and the third turns upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, forming the posterior ligament of the knee-joint (ligamentum posticum Winslowii). The tendons of the two last muscles, viz., the semi- tendinosus and semi-membranosus, with those of the gracilis and sartorius, form the inner hamstring. If the semi-membranosus muscle be turned down from its origin, the student will bring into view the broad and radiated expanse of the adductor magnus, upon which the three flexor muscles above described rest. Actions. — These three hamstring muscles are the direct flexors of the leg upon the thigh ; and, by taking their origin from below, they balance the pelvis on the lower extremities. Arteries of the Posterior Femoral Region. The Arteries of this region are the terminal branches of the external and internal circumflex, the three perforating, the termination of the profunda femoris and the popliteal. The branches of the external circumflex are seen pierc- ing the upper part of the vastus externus, to inosculate with the internal circumflex, ischiatic, and superior per- forating arteries. Ihe internal circumflex makes its ap- pearance between the upper border of the adductor40 POPLITEAL REGION. magnus, and the lower border of the quadratus femoris. It inosculates with the external circumflex, ischiatic, and superior perforating arteries. The three perforating arteries emerge on the posterior aspect of the thigh, by passing through tendinous arches between the adductor magnus and the linea aspera. They anastomose with each other, with the circumflex and ischiatic arteries above, and with the articular branches of the popliteal below. The profunda escapes through the adductor magnus, close to the linea aspera, and is protected from pressure by a tendinous arch, which is thrown across the bone. It makes its appear- ance at about an inch above the commencement of the popliteal artery. The Nerves in this region are the greater and lesser ischiatic. The continuation of the lesser ischiatic is seen upon the semi-tendinosus muscle. The Great ischiatic nerve (Jig. 6. 7.) runs down the middle of the posterior femoral region, being situated between the flexor muscles and the adductor magnus. At the lower third of the thigh it divides into two nerves of nearly equal size, the popliteal, 9., and peroneal, 8. Its branches are simply muscular and cutaneous. Popliteal Region. The lower part of the posterior femoral region is a surgical region of some importance, the popliteal. We shall, therefore, describe it separately. The popliteal region {fig- 5.) is a diamond-shaped space, bounded above on each side by the two ham- strings l. 2., and below by the two heads, 3. 3., of the great muscle of the calf, the gastrocnemius. On dissect- ing back the integument, a large vein, 8., which runs up the middle of the posterior part of the leg, the external saphenous, is seen between the layers of the superficial fascia. To this several cutaneous veins converge, which must be divided in making an incision for the purpose of reaching the artery. If the superficial fascia be dissected away, the external saphenous vein will be seen passing through an oval foramen in the deep popliteal fascia, to terminate in the popliteal vein.POPLITEAL REGION. 41 The deep popliteal fascia is Fig- 5.* tkjnj ant| wju removed with- out being observed, unless the dissector proceed cautiously. It is a part of the common deep fascia investing the entire limb. Beneath the deep fascia is a quantity of adipose sub- stance which fills up the whole popliteal space, from the bone and joint to the surface, and protects and supports the po- pliteal vessels and nerves. It will be recollected, that at the upper part of this popliteal space the great ischiatic nerve divides into two branches of nearly equal size — the popli- teal and peroneal. The popli- teal, 4., runs along the middle line of this space, from apex to apex of its diamond-shaped area. It is placed near to the surface, and is easily found on slightly separating the adipose tissue. This nerve divides the region into two equal halves: in the external one will be found two small nerves, branches of the popliteal and peroneal, called communicans poplitei and communicans * Fig. 5. The popliteal region, and the superficial anatomy of the calf of the leg. No. 1. The inner hamstring. 2. The outer hamstring. 3, 3. The two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. 4. The popliteal artery, vein, and. nerve, in their relative position from within outwards; the artery being the deepest, next the vein, and the nerve quite super- ficial. 5. The termination of the ischiatic nerve dividing into the popliteal nerve, and 6. the peroneal. 7. The external saphenous nerve, formed by the union of the communicans peronei, from the peroneal, and communicans poplitei from the popliteal nerve. 8. The external saphenous vein. 9. The outer border of the soleus muscle. 10. The tendo Achillis. * C 942 POPLITEAL ARTERY.— OPERATION. joeronei, and the peroneal nerve itself, 6., lying along the tendon of the biceps muscle. To the inner side of the popliteal nerve, at a variable depth, is the popliteal vein, to which the external saphe- nous vein will serve as a guide, and to the inner side of the vein, and still deeper, resting on the femur, is the popliteal artery. Operation. — In what then does the operation for tying this artery consist? — John Hunter’s operation, as it is frequently called, in compliment to that great surgeon, for it was his excellent know- ledge of practical anatomy, that bestowed upon surgery this valuable discovery for the cure of aneurism. Why ! it consists in making a longitudinal incision along the middle of the popliteal space, which shall divide the integument, the superficial fascia, remembering the external saphenous vein, the deep fascia, then cautiously making your way through the adipose substance, a little to the inner side of the middle line, down to the artery, hooking around it with the aneu- rismal needle, and tying the ligature. In the upper part of the popliteal space, the artery lies compara- tively superficially; and is altogether to the inner side of the popliteal nerve. In the middle portion it is deepest: and between the heads of the gastrocnemius, it again becomes superficial, but is crossed by numerous muscular branches, both of the artery and nerve, which would greatly interfere with the progress of an operation. The floor of the popliteal space is formed by the expanded inferior extremity of the femur, by the knee- joint, and by the popliteal muscle immediately below the joint. The Popliteal artery (Jig. 4. 5.) runs obliquely out- wards, through the middle of the popliteal space, from the tendinous opening in the adductor magnus, to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Relations. — It rests first on the femur, then on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, then on the fascia covering the popliteus muscle: superficial and external to it is the popliteal vein, and still more superficial and external, the popliteal nerve.RELATIONS AND BRANCHES. 43 Plan of the relations of the popliteal artery. Inner Side. Front. * Popliteal nerve. Popliteal vein. Popliteal artery. Behind. Outer Side. Femur. Ligamentum posticum Winslowii. Popliteal fascia. Branches: Superior external articular, internal articular, Azygos articular, Inferior external, internal, Sural. The Superior articular arteries, external and internal, wind around the femur immediately above the condyles, to the front of the knee-joint, anastomosing with each other, with the external circumflex, the anastomotica magna, the inferior articular and the recurrent of the an- terior tibial. The external passes beneath the tendon of the biceps, and the internal through an arched opening beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus. The Azygos articular artery pierces the posterior liga- ment of the joint, ligamentum posticum Winslowii, and supplies the synovial membrane, in its interior. The Inferior articular arteries wind around the head of the tibia, immediately below the joint, and anastomose with each other, the superior articular arteries, and the recurrent of the anterior tibial. The external passes beneath the two external lateral ligaments of the joint, and the internal beneath the internal lateral ligament. The Sural arteries (sura, the calf) are muscular branches of large size and variable number, distributed to the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. * This expression, as in all cases of dissection of the posterior aspect of a limb, has relation to the dissector, and not to the limb itself.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 44 The Popliteal nerve (Jig. 5. ±.,Jig. 6.9.) runs through the middle of the popliteal space, from the division of the great ischiatic nerve to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it passes with the artery beneath the arch of the soleus, and becomes the postei'ior tibial nerve. It is superficial in the whole of its course, and lies externally to the vein and artery. Its branches are muscular or sural (Jig. 6.10.), which are distributed to the muscles of the calf; and the communi- cans poplitei, which unites with a similar branch, commu- nicans peronei, from the peroneal nerve, to form the external saphenous nerve, Jig. 5. 7.,,fig- 6. 16. The Peroneal nerve (Jig. 5. 6., Jig. 6. 8.) descends by the side of the tendon of the biceps to the head of the fibula, pierces the origin of the peroneus longus muscle, and divides into two branches, the anterior tibial, Jig. 6. 13., and musculo-cutaneous, 14. It gives off but one branch in its course, the communicans peronei, which unites with the communicans poplitei. Dissection of the Leg. The leg is naturally divided into three regions, anterior tibial, Jibular, and posterior tibial. Each region is com- posed of its appropriate muscles, vessels, and nerves. Those of the anterior tibial region may be thus arranged: Superficial to the fascia. Tibial recurrent artery, Peroneal cutaneous nerve, Internal saphenous vein, Internal saphenous nerve. Beneath the fascia. Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, Extensor proprius pollicis, Anterior tibial artery, Anterior tibial nerve. The student will find it convenient, before commencing the dissec- tion of the leg, to separate the limb from the rest of the body, by dividing the muscles, and sawing across the femur at about its middle. This step is better than disarticulating at the hip-joint, as it gives him an opportunity, at an after period, of studying the ligaments of the hip. The dissection of the anterior tibial region is to be commenced by carrying an incision along the middle of the leg, midway between the tibia and the fibula, from the knee to the ankle, and bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision, extending from one malleolus to45 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY. the other. And to expose the tendons on the dorsum of the foot, the longitudinal incision may be carried onwards to the outer side of the base of the great toe, and be terminated by another incision directed across the heads of the metatarsal bones. When the integument of these two regions has been turned aside, a small artery must be sought for near the head of the tibia, which pierces the deep fascia, and turns upwards upon the knee-joint, to inosculate with the arti- cular arteries. This is the recurrent branch of the ante- rior tibial artery. The superficial fascia may now be dissected from off the deep fascia. At the lower third of the leg, this separation must be conducted with care, for two nerves of considerable size will be found piercing the deep fascia near to the fibula, and running downwards in the super- ficial fascia to the dorsum of the foot. These are the peroneal cutaneous nerves (fig. 6. 15.), the cutaneous division of the musculo-cutaneous branch of the peroneal. These branches must be traced with care, following each filament, and separating it from the adhering cellular tissue. They are distributed to all the toes. The ex- ternal, the larger of the two, will be found supplying three toes and a half; the internal, the great toe, and one half the second. If the inner flap of the integument in the leg be dis- sected farther back, so as to expose the inner condyle of the femur and the superficial fascia behind the tibia and internal malleolus, the course of a vein of considerable size will be exposed in its entire length. Below, it will be seen resting on the internal malleolus, and collecting its blood by numerous small branches from the inner side of the dorsum of the foot. This is the commencement of the internal saphenous vein. It next runs upwards along the inner side of the leg, behind the inner condyle of the femur, and may be traced along the inner side of the thigh (fig. 1. 9.) to the saphenous opening. Immediately beneath the inner condyle of the femur, the internal saphenous nerve (fig. 2. 11.), a branch of the anterior crural, will be seen piercing the deep fascia, after having passed between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. The nerve descends by the side of the of vein, giving off cutaneous branches in its course, crossesANTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. — MUSCLES. 46 the inner malleolus, and is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and communicates with the in- ternal cutaneous branch of the fibular cutaneous. The deep fascia is strong and tendinous, and firmly attached to the tibia and fibula. By its internal surface it gives origin to the muscles of this region, and between the two malleoli it forms a dense band, called anterior annular ligament, which binds down the tendons of the extensor muscles in their passage forwards to the dorsum of the foot. An incision may now be made through the deep fascia, in the course of a line drawn from the midpoint between the head of the fibula and spine of the tibia, to midway between the inner and outer malleolus. This will mark the course of the anterior tibial artery: and an incision made in any part of this line will expose that vessel in its course between the muscles. The structures to be divided, are the same as in any other part of the body. (Vide Introduction, page 1.) The deep fascia is easily separated from the muscles in the lower part of the leg, but above it is closely connected to them, and cannot be removed without dividing some of their fibres. Muscles of the anterior tibial region : Tibialis anticus, Extensor communis digitorum, Peroneus tertius, Extensor proprius pollicis. The Tibialis anticus muscle (flexor tarsi tibialis) arises from the upper two thirds of the tibia, from the inter- osseous membrane, and from the deep fascia; its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the inner side of the internal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The Extensor longus digitorum arises from the head of the tibia, from the upper three fourths of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane, and from the deep fascia. Be- low it divides into four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, to be inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. The mode of insertion of the extensor tendons, both in the hand and in the foot,47 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. is remarkable {fig. 9.); each tendon spreads into a broad aponeurosis over the_first phalanx ; this aponeurosis divides into three slips, the 'middle one is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral slips are con- tinued onwards to be inserted into the base of the third. The Peroneus tertins (flexor tarsi fibularis) arises from the lower fourth of the fibula, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Although it ap- pears to be merely a part of the extensor longus digi- torum, it may be looked upon as analogous to the flexor carpi ulnaris of the fore-arm. Sometimes it is altogether wanting. The Extensor proprius pollicis lies between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the lower two thirds of the fibula and interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Actions. — The tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius are direct flexors of the tarsus upon the leg, acting in con- junction with the tibialis posticus, and peroneus longus and brevis: they direct the foot either inwards or out- wards, and preserve its flatness in progression. The ex- tensor longus digitorum, and extensor proprius pollicis, are direct extensors of the phalanges : but continuing their action, they assist the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, in flexing the entire foot upon the leg. Taking their origin from below, they increase the stability of the ankle. Anterior tibialartery. — We have seen in a previous sec- tion, that the popliteal artery divides into the anterior and posterior tibial. The anterior tibial passes forwards between the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle, then through the opening in the upper part of the inter- osseous membrane, to the anterior tibial region. From this point it runs down the anterior aspect of the leg to the ankle joint. Relations. — It rests upon the interosseous mem- brane, the lower part of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the joint. In the upper third of its course it is situated between the tibialis anticus and extensor communis di- gitorum, lower down between the tibialis anticus and48 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. OPERATIONS. extensor proprius pollicis ; and just before it reaches the ankle it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and becomes placed between that tendon and the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Plan of the relations of the anterior tibial artery. Inner Side. Front. Outer Side. Tibialis anticus. Tendon of the extensor pro- prius pollicis. Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia. Ankle joint. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius pollicis. Tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Operations. — The anterior tibial artery may be tied in any part of its course after it has escaped through the opening in the inter- osseous membrane, by making an incision in the direction of a line drawn from the midpoint, between the anterior border of the tibia and fibula in the upper third of the leg, to the middle of the ankle. The operation in the upper third of the course of the artery is one of considerable difficulty, — 1st. On account of the absence of any positive guide to the interspace between the tibialis anticus and ex- tensor longus digitorum muscles; 2d. On account of the great depth of the artery ; and 3dly. On account of the unyielding nature of the deep fascia, which constricts the external orifice of the wound. In consequence of these impediments, the artery is never operated upon in this situation, excepting for the purpose of securing both ends of the vessel in accidental wounds. The incision in the integument and deep fascia must be four or five inches in length. The artery has a vein to either side, vence comites ; the nerve lies to its outer side. In the middle third of the leg, the incision is to be made in the same direction, and between three and four inches in length. The structures to be divided, are the integument, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. Then the interspace between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis is to be found, and the two muscles separated. Lying at the bottom of the interval between them, and supported by the interosseous membrane, will be seen the artery, accompanied by its venae comites, and having the anterior tibial nerve resting upon it. The nerve is to be drawn carefully aside, the sheath of the vessels opened, and the ligature conveyed, by means of the aneurism needle, around the artery. In the lower third of the leg, an incision in the same direction, but two inches in length, will suffice. The structures to be cut through are the same as in the former operation. The artery will be found resting on the bone, between the tendons of the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, or nearer to the ankle, between the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius pollicistANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY.—BRANCHES. 49 The relations to the veins are the same j the nerve lies to its outer side. The Branches of the anterior tibial artery are the fol- lowing : — Anterior tibial Recurrent, Muscular, External malleolar, Internal malleolar. The Recurrent branch passes upwards to the front of the knee-joint upon which it is distributed, anastomosing with the articular arteries. It pierces the origin of the tibialis anticus muscle. The Muscular branches supply the muscles of this region. The Malleolar arteries are distributed to the ankle joint; the external passing beneath the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, and inosculating with the anterior peroneal artery ; the internal beneath the tendons of the extensor proprius pollicis and tibialis anticus, inosculates with branches of the posterior tibial artery. The Anterior tibial nerve (fig- 6. 13.) commences at the bifurcation of the peroneal upon the head of the fibula, and passes beneath the upper part of the extensor longus digitorum, to reach the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, just as that vessel has passed through the opening in the interosseous membrane. It descends with the artery, lying at first to its outer side, and then in front of it, and near the ankle becomes again placed to its outer side. It supplies the muscles of the anterior tibial region, and terminates in the dorsalis pedis nerve. Dorsal Region of the Foot. The deep fascia in this region is extremely thin, and can hardly be said to exist: the muscles on the dorsum of the foot are, Extensor brevis digitorum, 4 Dorsal interossei | bicipital | * abduckn’s The Extensor brevis digitorum muscle arises from a tubercle on the outer side of the os calcis, crosses theFOOT. DORSAL REGION. 50 foot obliquely, and terminates in four tendons, the inner- most of which is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and the other three into the sides of the long extensor tendons of the second, third, and fourth toes. The Dorsal interossei muscles are placed between the metatarsal bones; they l'esemble the analogous muscles in the hand in arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones ; their tendons are inserted into the base of the first phalanx, and into the digital expansion of the tendons of the long extensor. The First dorsal interosseous is inserted into the inner side of the second toe, and is therefore an adductor ; the other three are inserted into the outer side of the second, third and fourth toes, and are therefore abductors. Communicating arteries (perforantes), between the dor- sum and sole of the foot, pass between the bifid origins of these muscles. The Artery of the dorsum of the foot, Dorsalis pedis, is the continuation of the anterior tibial; it runs along the dorsum of the foot, from the ankle to the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe : here it divides into two branches, the communicating, which passes between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous, and inosculates with the termination of the external plantar artery and the dorsalis hallucis, which runs forwards upon the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and at the base of the first phalanx divides into two branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes. Relations.— The dorsalis pedis is situated along the outer border of the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis ; on its fibular side is the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, and near to its termination it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum.DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY. 51 d 2 Plan of the relations of the dorsalis pedis artery. In Front. Inner Side. Tendon of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis. Deep fascia. Inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. Outer Side. Tendon of the extensor iongus digitorum. Border of the extensor brevis digitorum. Bones of the tarsus, with their ligaments. Dorsalis pedis artery. Operation. — The dorsalis pedis artery is to be exposed, by making an incision two inches in length along the external border of the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis muscle, beginning at the ankle joint. The artery, accompanied by its two veins and nerve, rests upon the bones of the tarsus, between the tendons of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis and extensor Iongus digitorum. Near to the base of the metatarsal bones it is crossed by the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. Branches : Dorsalis pedis, Tarsea, Metatarsea, — interosseae, Communicating, Dorsalis hallucis,— collateral digital. The Tarsea arches transversely across the tai'sus, sup- plying the articulations of the tarsal bones and the outer side of the foot; it anastomoses with the external mal- leolar and posterior peroneal arteries. The Metatarsea forms an arch across the base of the metatarsal bones, and supplies the outer side of the foot; it sends branches (interossem) to the dorsal interossei muscles, and receives communicating branches (per- forantes) from the plantar arch. The Nerves supplying the dorsum of the foot are five in number : Internal peroneal cutaneous, External peroneal cutaneous, Anterior tibial. External saphenous, Internal saphenous.52 FIBUL AR REGION. — MUSCLES. The Peroneal cutaneous nerves have been described at page 45.; they communicate with the three other nerves. The Anterior tibialnerve accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery, supplying the extensor brevis digitorum and the great toe, and communicates with the internal peroneal cutaneous. The External saphenous nerve passes from the posterior part of the leg behind the outer malleolus, and is distri- buted to the outer border of the foot, accompanying the branches of the external saphenous vein. This nerve usually communicates with the external peroneal cuta- neous by means of a large branch. The Internal saphenous nerve crosses the inner ankle by the side of the internal saphenous vein, and is distri- buted to the inner border of the foot and great toe. It sends, or receives, a communicating branch from the in- ternal peroneal cutaneous. Fibular Region. If the leg be turned upon its inner side, and the deep fascia be removed from over the fibula, two muscles will be exposed which arise from that bone; these are the peroneus longus and brevis. The Peroneus longus (nspovrj, fibula, extensor tarsi fibularis longior) arises from the upper third of the fibula : its tendon passes behind the outer malleolus to a groove in the cuboid bone, through which it proceeds obliquely across the foot to be inserted into the base of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe. A sesamoid bone is deve- loped in that part of the tendon which is lodged in the groove of the cuboid bone. The Peroneus brevis (extensor tarsi fibularis brevior) arises from the lower two thirds of the fibula, passes be- hind the external malleolus, with the tendon of the pre- ceding muscle, and is inserted into the base of the meta- tarsal bone of the little toe. Actions. — The peronei muscles are extensors of the foot conjointly with the tibialis posticus. They antagon- ise the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The whole of these muscles acting together tend to maintain the flatness of the foot, so necessary to security in walking.53 FIBULAR REGION NERVES. D 3 There is no artery in this region; but if the peroneus longus be carefully turned down from its origin, the peroneal nerve and its branches will be exposed. The Peroneal nerve {Jig .6. 8.) descends from the division of the great ischiatic nerve, along the tendon of the biceps, to the head of the fibula, where it pierces the origin of the peroneus longus muscle. At this point it divides into two branches, anterior tibial, 13., and musculo-cutaneous, 14. The Anterior tibial nerve, 13. passes through the upper part of the extensor longus digi- torum muscle, and accompanies the anterior tibial artery, lying at first to the outer side and then resting upon that vessel. Upon the dorsum of the foot it lies by the side of the dorsalis pedis artery, and is distributed to the adjoining sides of the great and second toes, after having supplied the muscles on the dorsum of the foot. The Musculo-cutaneous nerve, 14. passes for a short distance between the peroneus longus and extensor longus digitorum, both of which muscles it sup- plies ; hence its title “ musculo.” At the lower third of the leg it * Fig. 6. A diagram showing the formation and branches of the sacral plexus. No. 1. The lumbo-sacral nerve, descending to join the sacral plexus, and giving off' a large brand), 2. The gluteal nerve. 3. The anterior branches of the four upper sacral nerves. 4. The sacral plexus. 5. The internal pudic nerve. 6. The lesser ischiatic nerve. 7. The great ischiatic nerve. 8. The peroneal nerve. 9. Theposterior TIBIAL REGION. 54- pierces the deep fascia, and divides into the two peroneal cutaneous nerves of the foot; hence “ cutaneous.” The Peroneal cutaneous nerves, 15., are distributed to the integument on the dorsum of the foot, and to all the toes; the internal supplying one and a half, and the external three and a half. Posterior Tibial Region. This region is best dissected by making an incision from the middle of the popliteal space, down the middle of the posterior part of the leg, to the tuberosity of the os calcis, bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision to each malleolus. Turning aside the two flaps of integument, the superficial fascia is brought into view, and between its two layers in the middle line of the calf, the external saphenous vein and nerve. The External saphenous vein (fig. 5. 8.) commences by small branches on the outer border of the foot, ascends behind the external malleolus towards the groove between the two bellies of the gastrocnemius, and terminates b}' piercing the deep fascia in the middle of the popliteal space, and opening into the popliteal vein. The External saphenous nerve (fig. 5. 7. fig. 6. 16.) will be found lying by the side of this vein. It is formed by the union of two branches, communicans poplitei and com- municans peronei, from the two divisions of the great ischiatic nerve. The nerve thus formed pierces the deep fascia below the fleshy part of the gastrocnemius muscle, and descends by the side of the external saphe- nous vein, supplying the integument in its course to the outer border of the foot to which its branches are distri- buted, communicating with the external peroneal cuta- neous nerve. The Deep fascia, in the upper part of this region, is thin: below it becomes thicker. It is connected on each side with the tibia and fibula, and at the ankle forms the internal and external annular ligaments. If the deep popliteal nerve. 10. Its sural branches. 11. The posterior tibial nerve, dividing inferiorly into the two plantar nerves 12. 13. The anterior tibial nerve. 14. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, its muscu- lar portion. 15. Its cutaneous portion. 16. The external saphenous nerve, formed by the union of the communicans poplitei, and com- municans peronei.MUSCLES. SUPERFICIAL GROUP. 55 d 4 fascia be turned aside, the three muscles forming the superficial group of this region will be brought into view — Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. The Gastrocnemius (yaarpoKVfj^iov, the bellied part of the leg) arises by two heads from the two condyles of the femur, the inner head being the longest. They unite to form the beautiful muscle so characteristic of this region of the limb. It is inserted, by means of the tendo Achillis, into the lower part of the tuberosity of the os calcis, a synovial bursa being placed between the tendon and the upper part of the tuberosity. The gastrocnemius must be removed from its origin, and turned down, in order to expose the next muscle. The Plantaris (planta, the sole of the foot), an ex- tremely diminutive muscle, situated between the gastro- cnemius and soleus, arises from the outer condyle of the femur, and is inserted, by its long and delicately slender tendon, into the tuberosity of the os calcis, by the side of the tendo Achillis. The Soleus (solea, a sole) is the broad muscle upon which the plantaris rests. It arises from the head and upper third of the fibula, from the oblique line, and middle third of the tibia. Its fibres converge to the tendo Achillis, by which it is inserted into the tuberosity of the os calcis. Between the fibular and tibial origins of this muscle is a tendinous arch, beneath which the popliteal vessels and nerve pass into the leg. The soleus muscle must now be divided along its extensive origin, and turned down. Actions. — The three muscles of the calf draw power- fully on the os calcis, and lift the heel; continuing their action, they raise the entire body. This action is attained by means of a lever of the second power, the fulcrum (the toes) being at one end, the weight (the body sup- ported on the tibia) in the middle, and the power (these muscles) at the other extremity. They are therefore the walking muscles, and perform all movements that require the support of the whole bodyMUSCLES. DEEP GROUP. 56 from the ground, as dancing, leaping, &c. Taking their* fixed point from below, they steady the leg upon the foot. Deep Group. An Intermuscular fascia serves to separate the super- ficial from the deep group, and by its strong attachments to the bones at each side, binds down the muscles closely in their places. On removing this fascia, the muscles are brought clearly into view — Popliteus, Flexor longus pollicis, Flexor longus digitorum, Tibialis posticus. The Popliteus muscle (poples, the ham of the leg) forms the floor of the popliteal region at its lower part, and is bound tightly down by a strong fascia derived from the middle slip (page 39.) of the tendon of the semi-mem- branosus muscle. It arises by a rounded tendon from a deep groove on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, beneath the external lateral ligament. It spreads obliquely over the head of the tibia, and is inserted into the surface of bone above its oblique line. This line is often called, from being the limit of insertion of the popliteus muscle, popliteal line. The Flexor longus pollicis is the most superficial of the three next muscles. It arises from the lower two thirds of the fibula, passes through a distinct tendinous canal into the sole of the foot, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The Flexor longus digitorum (perforans) arises from the surface of the tibia, immediately below the popliteal line. Its tendon passes through a sheath common to it and the tibialis posticus behind the inner malleolus into the sole of the foot, where it divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the four lesser toes, perforating the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. The flexor longus pollicis must now be removed from its origin, and the flexor longus digitorum drawn aside, to bring into view the entire extent of the tibiali sposticus. The Tibialis posticus (extensor tarsi tibialis) lies upon57 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. D 5 the interosseous membrane, between the two bones of the leg. It arises by two beads from the adjacent sides of the tibia and fibula their whole length, and from the inter- osseous membrane. Its tendon passes inwards beneath the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and runs in the same sheath, but internal to it, into the sole of the foot, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bone. The student will observe that the two latter muscles change their relative position to each other in their course. Thus, in the leg, the position of the three muscles from within outwards, is flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis. At the inner malleolus, the relation of the tendons is tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, both in the same sheath ; then a broad groove, which lodges the posterior tibial artery, venae comites, and nerve; and lastly, the flexor longus pollicis. The arteries of the posterior tibial region are, — , f anterior peroneal, * ‘ \ posterior peroneal, muscular. Posterior tibial The Posterior tibial artery runs down the tibial side of the leg, from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the inner ankle. Relations. — It rests, 1st. upon the tibialis posticus ; 2dly, upon the flexor longus digitorum; Sdly, upon the tibia, and is covered in by the intermuscular fascia. Plan of the relations of the posterior tibial artery. In Front. * The intermuscular fascia. Inner Side. Vein. Outer Side. Posterior tibial nerve. Vein. Behind. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibia. Posterior tibial artery. * This expression, as in all cases of dissection of the posterior aspect of a limb, has relation to the dissector, and not to the limb.PERONEAL ARTERY. 58 Operation. — One of the most difficult operations in the entire body is the ligature of the posterior tibial artery, in the upper third of its course. It is happily one hardly ever required, excepting in the case of accidental wound, where both extremities of the vessel must be secured. An incision, five or six inches in length, is made parallel with the inner border of the tibia, and about half an inch distant. This will divide the integument, superficial fascia, and deep fascia; the border of the gastrocnemius is then to be held aside, and another incision of the same extent with the preceding made through the soleus down to the intermuscular fascia. When the intermuscular fascia is clearly exposed, it may be slit up. The artery, with its vena? comites and nerve, lie immediately beneath it, near the middle line of the leg, and resting upon the tibialis posticus muscle. The nerve lies upon the artery, or directly to its outer side. At the ankle, an incision two inches in length is sufficient. It must be directed obliquely from the inner border of the tendo Achillis, to the point of the internal malleolus, or in the opposite direction, as may be most convenient. It will divide the integu- ment, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. The next step, in the living subject, would be to feel for the pulsation of the artery ; but, in the dead, the student will find the sheath containing the vessels at about three quarters of an inch from the edge of the malleolus. The nerve lies to the outer side of the artery. If the student open a sheath lying immediately under cover of the malleolus, he will find it to contain the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles. And if he get too near to the tendo Achillis, he will open the sheath of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Branches. — The Peroneal artery is given off from the posterior tibial, at about two inches below the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; it inclines outwards, and runs along the inner border of the fibula to its lower third, where it divides into its two branches, anterior and posterior peroneal. Relations. — It rests upon the tibialis posticus, and is covered in by the flexor longus pollicis, having the fibula to its outer side. Plan of the relations of the peroneal artery. In Front. Intermuscular fascia. Flexor longus pollicis. Outer Side. Fibula. Peroneal artery. Behind. Tibialis posticus.59 SOLE OF THE FOOT. d 6 Operation. — From the very deep position of the fibular artery beneath the flexor longus pollicis muscle, and behind the fibula, this is a very difficult operation. This may well be conceived, when it is recollected that it has been proposed to saw away a portion of the bone to reach the artery. Like the operation on the upper part of the tibial arteries, it is not likely to be required excepting in the case of accidental wound. The operation is performed in the middle third of the leg, previously to the division of the artery into the anterior and posterior peroneal. An incision, four or five inches in length, must be made parallel with and at about an inch distant from the fibula, the integument, superficial and deep fascia, being drawn aside. The soleus and intermuscular fascia must be divided to the same extent. The flexor longus pollicis is then to be separated from the fibula, and drawn outwards. Beneath this muscle, by the side of the fibula, will be found the artery. It has no accompanying nerve. The Anterior jjeronectl artery, at the lower third of the leg, pierces the interosseous membrane, and is distributed on the front of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The Posterior peroneal continues onwards to the pos- terior aspect of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal, tarsal, external plantar, and pos- terior tibial arteries. The Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles in the course of the posterior tibial artery. The Posterior tibial nerve, which is the only nerve in this region, is a continuation of the popliteal: it lies at first to the outer side of the artery, rests upon it in the middle of its course, and then gets to its outer side again, in which situation it enters the sole of the foot. Sole of the Foot. Dissection. — The sole of the foot is best dissected by carrying an incision around the heel, and along the inner and outer borders of the foot, to the great and little toes. This incision should divide the integument and superficial fascia, and both together should be dissected from the deep fascia, as far forward as the base of the phalanges, where they may be removed from the foot altogether. The Superficial fascia is closely adherent to the integu- ment ; and, when thus turned up, has the appearance of a dense cushion of fat held down at numerous points by strong cellular tissue. The Deep, or plantar fascia, is a beautiful structure stretched between the under surface of the tuberosity of the calcaneum and the bases of the first phalanges of the60 SOLE OF THE FOOT. toes. It thus serves a double purpose, being mainly instrumental in preserving the convexity of the arch of the foot, while it protects from injurious pressure the soft parts between it and the bones. This fascia is divided into three portions, a middle and two lateral. The middle •portion is very dense, and is made up of strong tendinous fibres, closely interlaced with each other. It occupies the middle of the sole, and terminates towards the toes in five slips. Each of these slips is subdivided into two smaller slips, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of each toe, and give passage to the flexor tendons. The lateral portions are compar- atively thin. They cover the muscles on the sides, and are continuous with the deep fascia on the dorsum of the foot. At the junction of the middle with the lateral portions, two septa are sent inwards, and are attached to the under surface of the tarsal bones. These two par- titions divide the muscles into three groups, a middle and two lateral. The lateral portions of the plantar fascia are easily removed from the muscles. The middle portion must be divided through its middle, and each extremity raised separately; the anterior towards *the toes, from which it may be divided; the posterior towards the os calcis: this, however, cannot be effected without dividing many of the muscular fibres of the flexor brevis digitorum, which arise from the surface of the fascia. The muscles of the sole of the foot may be arranged in four layers : — First Layei'. Abductor pollicis, Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor brevis digitorum. Second Layer. Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, Tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, Accessorius, Lumbricales (4). Third Layer. Flexor brevis pollicis, Adductor pollicis,LAYERS. 61 MUSCLES. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Transversus pedis. Fourth Layer. Three plantar interossei (all adductors). The Abductor pollicis lies along the inner border of the foot; it arises by two heads, between which the tendons of the long flexors, arteries, veins, and nerves enter the sole of the foot. One head arises from the inner side of the tuberosity of the os calcis, the other from the in- ternal annular ligament and tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. Insertion, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The Abductor minimi digiti lies along the outer border of the sole of the foot. It arises from the outer side of the os calcis, and from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. The Flexor brevis digitorum (perforatus) is placed be- tween the two preceding muscles. It arises from the under surface of the os calcis and plantar fascia, and is inserted by four tendons into the base of the second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Each tendon divides, previously to its insertion, to give passage to the tendon of the long flexor : hence its cognomen perforatus. These muscles are to be divided posteriorly from their origin, and anteriorly through their tendons, and removed. This will bring into view the second layer, and the external plantar artery and nerve, which lie obliquely across it. At the point where the tendons of the long flexors cross each other, a communicating slip is sent between them, which associates their action. The Musculus accessorius arises by two slips from either side of the tuberosity of the os calcis ; the inner slip being fleshy, the outer tendinous. It is inserted into the outer side of the tendon of the flexor longus digi- torum. 1 he Lumbricales (lumbricus, an earthworm) are four little muscles arising from the tibial side of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, and inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendons, and into the base of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes.62 SOLE OF THE FOOT. Dissection. — To expose the third layer of muscles without dis- turbing the vessels ; cut the tendons of the long flexors across through the insertion of the accessorius, and draw that muscle with the tendons backwards, by means of hooks, and snip off the digital extremities of the tendons. A little cleaning of fat and cellular tissue will then bring clearly into view the third layer of muscles. In this dissection the branches of the internal plantar nerve will run considerable risk, unless the student be careful. Tlie Flexor brevis pollicis arises by a pointed tendinous process from the side of the cuboid, and from the external and middle cuneiform bones, and is inserted by two beads into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Two sesamoid bones are developed in the tendons of insertion of these two heads, and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies in the groove between them. The Adductor pollicis arises from the cuboid bone, from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the base of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. The Transversus pedis arises by fleshy slips from the heads of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes. Its tendon is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The plantar interossei muscles (page 64.) must be left until the arteries and nerves have been dissected and studied. Actions.—The actions of the muscles in the sole of the foot are implied in their names. See analysis (page 64.) Arteries of the Sole of the Foot. The Arteries of the sole of the foot are the internal and external plantar, the terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery. Their distribution may be thus expressed in a tabular form : — Posterior tibial - internal plantar external plantar muscular. • , f anterior perforating. ° a collateral. _ posterior perforating.63 ARTERIES AND NERVES. The posterior tibial artery immediately behind the inner malleolus divides into its two terminal branches. The Internal plantar, the smaller of the two, runs along the inner border of the foot between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum muscles, and supplies the inner border of the foot and great toe. The External plantar artery passes obliquely outwards between the first and second layer of plantar muscles to the fifth metatarsal space. It then turns horizontally in- wards between the second and third layers to the first metatarsal space, where it inosculates with the commu- nicating branch from the dorsalis pedis. The horizontal portion of the artery describes a slight curve, having the convexity forwards. This is the plantar arch. Branches.—1st. Muscular, to the muscles in the sole of the foot. 2d. The digital, four in number, pass forwards to the cleft between the toes, and divide into collateral branches, which supply the sides of the three external toes, and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, a small branch is sent upwards from each digital artery to inosculate with the interosseous branches of the metatarsea; these are the anterior perforating arteries. 3d. The Posterior perforating are three small branches which pass upwards between the heads of the three ex- ternal dorsal interossei muscles, to inosculate with the arch formed by the metatarsea artery. Nerves of the Sole of the Foot. The Nerves of the sole of the foot are, like the arteries, the internal and external plantar {fig- 6. 12.), terminal branches of the posterior tibial. Posterior tibial - internal external three toes and a half. one toe and a half, sole of the foot. There is a difference in the distribution of the nerves in this region, as contrasted with the arteries which it is difficult to explain. However, as far as the student is concerned, it may be possibly as easy to recollect by a mnemonic of opposition as of resemblance. Thus the external plantar artery supplies three toesANALYSIS OF ARRANGEMENT 64 and a half, and the nerve one and a half. The internal plantar artery supplies half a toe, and the nerve three and a half. The Internal plantar nerve, larger than the external, lies in the fissure between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum, and divides into four branches, which pass forwards between the first and second layers of mus- cles to be distributed to the three inner toes and one side of the fourth. The External plantar nerve, the smaller of the two, fol- lows the course of the external plantar artery, to the outer border of the musculus accessorius, beneath which it sends several large muscular branches to supply the sole of the foot. It then gives branches to the outer bor- der of the foot, and sends forwards two digital branches to supply the little toe and one half the next. When the arteries and nerves have been examined, the muscles may be removed which impede the view of the plantar interossei. The plantar interossei muscles are three in number, and are placed upon rather than between the metatarsal bones. They arise from the base of the meta- tarsal bones of the three outer toes, and are inserted into the inner side of the extensor tendon, and base of the first phalanx of the same toes. In their action they are all abductors. When the anatomy of the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the sole of the foot is completed, and the student is preparing to study the ligaments, he should lay open the groove in the cuboid bone by dividing the ligamentous sheath in which it is contained, and expose the tendon of the peroneus longus in its passage across the foot, to its insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In that portion of the tendon which lies in contact with the cuboid, he will find a sesamoid bone. In some instances the deposit of bone has not taken place, and the thickening in that portion of the tendon is merely fibro- cartilaginous. Analysis of the Arrangement and Actions of the Muscles of the lower Extremity. The lower extremity is composed of, 1st. the femur; 2d. the tibia and fibula ; 3d. the tarsus; 4th. the toes. The65 AND ACTIONS OT MUSCLES. trunk is the fixed point from which arise the muscles that move the thigh. The articulation of the hip is an uni- versal joint; hence the movements are very numerous, but they may all be referred to the four primary direc- tions, foriuctrds, backwards, inwards, outwards, to which is added rotation on its axis. The articulation of the femur with the tibia is a hinge joint, and is therefore applicable only to flexion and ex- tension: the muscles performing these actions, arise from the pelvis and femur. But as we descend, we find the length of the bones diminishing while their numbers in- crease. The foot is a compound organ made up of a num- ber of parts, each part performing distinct movements. We are therefore prepared to find a number of muscles destined to supply these demands. But numerous as they really are, they may, by a careful analysis, be arranged and grouped under a few simple actions. The movements of the tarsus may be referred to four heads,flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, the two latter actions being very imperfect. The muscles performing these movements are the following : — Flexion. Extension. Tibialis anticus, Tibialis posticus, Peroneus tertius. Peroneus longus, brevis, and where forcible action is required as in walking, Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Adduction. Abduction. Tibialis anticus, Peroneus longus, posticus. «— brevis. The movements of the toes may in the same manner be reduced to precisely the same simplicity of action thus : — Flexion. Extension. Flexor longus digitorum, Extensor longus digitorum. brevis digitorum, ,— brevis digitorum. ‘ accessorius, minimi digiti.ACTIONS OF MUSCLES. 66 Adduction. Abduction. T . • f 1 dorsal. Interossei, 3 dorsal, u eiossei,plantar. Abductor minimi digiti. The great toe, like the thumb in the hand, enjoys an independence of action, and is therefore provided with distinct muscles to perform its movements. But even here the direction of the actions is nothing more than is possessed by each of the other toes, and may be referred to the same plan, thus : — Flexion. Flexor longus pollicis, brevis pollicis. Adduction. Adductor pollicis. Extension. Extensor proprius pollicis, brevis digitorum. Abduction. Abductor pollicis. The only muscles excluded from this table are the lum- bricales, four small muscles, which, from their attachments to the tendons of the long flexor, appear to be assistants to their action ; and the transversus pedis, a small muscle placed transversely in the foot across the heads of the metatarsal bones, which has for its office the drawing to- gether of the toes.67 CHAPTER II. THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The upper extremity is the member developed from the upper part of the thoracic arch, as the lower ex- tremity is the member developed from the pelvic arch. It consists of an apparatus of bones, joints, muscles, vessels, and nerves, and is covered by the common in- vestments of the entire body, viz. the deep and super- ficial fascia, and the integument. The bones of the upper extremity are the clavicle, scapula, humerus, radius and ulna, carpal, metacarpal, and phalanges. The clavicle is the medium of connection between the upper extremity and the rest of the skeleton ; it is the fulcrum of action of the entire limb, and is prominently characteristic of animals possessing great power in their arms, as man, the bat, the mole, birds, &c. The scapula is a flat bone, and affords by its construction peculiar advantages; giving origin, by its extensive sur- face, to a number of muscles, and being itself movable on the convexity of the thorax. This is the bone which secures the connection of the arm to the trunk, and provides for all that diversity of movement so charac- teristic of the upper extremity, and which entitles it to the designation of an “universal joint.” The next bones, the humerus, radius, and itlna, have for their office the extension of the limb, for the purpose of supplying to the beautiful apparatus of the hand all the advantages which are to be obtained by a voluntary approximation or extension from the body. They are, therefore, denomi- nated loruj bones, and like all bones of this class are divisible into a shaft, an upper and a lower extremity. The shaft is more or less cylindrical and smooth, whilst the extremities are projected into processes which serve as levers for the attachment and action of muscles. The carpus is an assemblage of small bones belonging to theMUSCLES. UPPER EXTREMITY. 68 class of short bones. They are all slightly movable upon each other, and bestow pliancy and strength by means of the mutual yielding which exists between them. The metacarpal hones and phalanges are long bones, of a length proportionate to the arm and to the moving powers which are intended for their action ; they give breadth and extent to the hand, and facility in all the movements which that important organ is destined to perform. The Muscles are naturally divided into groups, which concur mutually in certain actions that are obviously necessary to the effective movements of the limb. The distribution of these groups, with their corresponding duties, will be best seen in a tabular analysis, thus: — Anterior Thoracic Group. Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. Serratus magnus. Humeral Subscapularis. Supra-spinatus. Infra-spinatus. Teres minor. Teres major. Posterior Thoracic Group. Trapezius. Levator anguli scapulas. Rhomboideus major. Rhomboideus minor. Group. Latissimus dorsi. Pectoralis major. Deltoid. Coraco-bracliialis. Anterior Brachial Group. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. Posterior Brachial Group. Triceps. Anconeus. Fore-arm. Anterior Group. Pronator radii teres. Pronator radii quadratus. Flexor carpi radialis. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor digitorum sublimis. Flexor digitorum profundus. Flexor pollicis longus. Palmaris longus. Posterior Group. Supinator radii longus. Supinator radii brevis. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor pollicis ossis metacarpi. Extensor pollicis primi internodii. Extensor pollicissecundi internodii. Extensor indicis.69 ARRANGEMENT IN GROUPS. Hand. Radial Group. Flexor ossis metacarpi. Flexor brevis pollicis. Abductor pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Ulnar Group. Palmaris brevis. Flexor ossis metacarpi. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Abductor minimi digiti. Palmar Group. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. The Anterior and posterior thoracic groups preserve the fixity and steadiness of the shoulder, and render it capable of supporting heavy weights and becoming the point of resistance to the actions of the humeral muscles. They also move the scapula freely on the chest, and afford all the advantages of the strongest articulation by bone. The humeral group carries the arm throughout all that circle of motion which is so necessary to an universal joint, and so valuable in application to its extensive uses. The muscles of the anterior brachial group are the flexors of the elbow, the perfect flexion of the joint being pro- cured by an advantageous attachment to both the radius and ulna. The posterior brachial group is the antagonist to the former, and extends the fore-arm. Now, it is fair to anticipate, that as the bones increase in number, and the limb is carried farther from the centre, the movements will increase in proportionate ratio. The movements of the shoulder were those of totality : the motions of the scapulo-humeral joint were of the most simple kind, such as would result from the application of a round ball against a shallow socket; those of the elboiv were in one direction only, flexion and extension ; but the wrist requires an apparatus for the action of the powerful twist which is so remarkable in that joint. And this is provided for by two pairs of the muscles of the fore-arm, the pronators and supinators, the former throwing the wrist and hand inwards, the latter outwards. Now this action could not be effectively produced without the exertion of muscular force upon the axis of support to the wrist; and we therefore find that the radius alone articulates with the wrist, and administers to all its movements, while the70 UPPER EXTREMITY ARTERIES. ulna is reserved as the especial agent in the motions of the elbow. Besides pronation and supination, the wrist possesses powerful flexion and extension, and to this office are assigned the next muscles, Jiexores and extensores carpi. The fingers are simply supplied for all their numerous movements of flexion and extension, by three flexors situated in the fore-arm, and six extensors; one flexor and three extensors being intended for the especial use of the thumb. The remaining muscle, the palmar is longus, is an extensor of the palmar fascia, which provides by its strength and elasticity for a powerful resistance to shocks received upon the surface of the hand. The muscles of the hand are flexors, abductors, and adductors. The short flexors of the thumb and little finger are necessary to the strength of grip so characteristic of the human hand. All the remaining muscles are abductors and adductors (see fig. 10.), with the exception of the palmaris brevis, which contracts the integument on the side of the hand, and the lumbricales, which are accessory in their actions to the deep flexor. The abductor and adductor of the thumb are known by those names; the analogous muscles of the index finger are the first dorsal and first palmar interossei; of the middle finger the two next dorsal interossei; of the ring finger the fourth dorsal and second palmar; and of the little finger the abductor minimi digiti and third palmar interosseus. These move- ments of abduction and adduction are highly valuable in the grasp of large or irregular bodies, or in the contraction of the bulk of the hand in various important surgical manipulations. The main artery for the supply of the upper extremity commences within the thorax, and, arching over its brim, passes beneath the clavicle ; hence it is named subclavian. On quitting the side of the chest, it is received into the space which intervenes between the scapula and ribs, and acquires the name of that space axillary. It then runs along the arm to the bend of the elbow, under the name of brachial. Now it is an established principle in the distribution of arteries, that they always select the most protected situations for their course. Thus they are constantly placed on the inner side of the limb, and studiously avoid the convexities of joints, where they71 MODE OJt' DISTRIBUTION. would be subjected to injury, both from external pressure and over extension. The brachial artery is therefore placed along the inner side of the arm, as is the femoral in the thigh ; the brachial dips deeply into the space of the elbow, as does the popliteal into the space of the ham. Arrived at the bend of the elbow, the brachial artery accommodates itself to the augmented lateral breadth of the fore-arm, and its increased number of components, the radius, the ulna, and intermediate space, by dividing into three branches corresponding with these three parts, the two bones and the interosseous space. Its branches, therefore, are radial, ulna, and interosseous; as in the leg we find the posterior tibial and fibular corresponding with the two bones, and the anterior tibial with the in- terosseous space. The Radial artery supplies all the parts placed upon the radial side of the fore-arm, and passing between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, is dis- tributed to the thumb and deep structures in the hand, under the name of the deep palmar arch. The Ulnar supplies all the parts placed upon the ulnar side of the fore-arm, and in the hand forms the superficial palmar arch, from which the branches pass off, which are distri- buted to the fingers. In the supply of branches, the muscles necessarily come in for a large share, which receive no names unless they assume a remarkable magnitude, as the profunda arteries. Other named branches owe their names to peculiarity of structure, and are, therefore, easily remembered. But the joints which are exposed to pressure and are uncovered, except by integument, derive an abundant supply of branches from all the surrounding sources. For instance, the elbow joint is provided with eight nutrient branches, the superior profunda, and its posterior articular branch, inferior profunda, anastomotica magna, radial recurrent, anterior and posterior ulnar recurrents, and interosseous recurrent. The knee has seven named branches, the wrist three, and the ankle four. Thus it may be shown that the principle of arrange- ment of the arteries, as of the muscles and the rest of the systems, is the same throughout the entire body : the72 VEINS. LYMPHATICS. — NEKVES. exceptions are individualities that associate objects of im- portance and interest with their existence. The Veins of the upper extremity are the superficial and the deep : the former are placed between the two layers of the superficial fascia, the latter are associated with the arteries. All the arteries of the limbs and trunk which are below the second magnitude are accompanied by two veins, named “ Venae comites;' thus the radial, ulnar, interosseous, and brachial arteries, with their branches, have each their corresponding venae comites. The axillary and subclavian have each a single vein. The Lymphatic vessels are rarely seen in an ordinary dissection, excepting under very favourable circumstances, as in anasarca, when they are sometimes observed, as white opaque threads, traversing the transparent jelly like cellular substance, and entering the lymphatic glands at all points of their circumference. They follow in their course the direction of the veins to which they bear a remarkable analogy. The lymphatic glands are accumu- lated in the loose cellular tissue of the axilla, and two or three may be met with in the course of the basilic vein. The Nerves of the upper extremity are derived from the brachial plexus which is formed by the four last cer- vical and the first dorsal nerves. A plexus is the means by which nervous branches destined to a single apparatus are associated in their structure previously to distribution, so that the sensations of each filament may harmonise with all the rest, and produce the unity of impulse which is necessary to perfect action. For it is evident that if an impression were received by the terminal filament of any one nerve, and excited a reflex movement, without a simultaneous impression upon the other nerves of the same limb and consequent muscular movement, that an opposition of action would result; which is inconsistent with natural and healthy function. We are, therefore, interested in the complex interlacements and union of a number of nerves in the formation of a plexus, when we reflect upon the important benefits which such a disposi- tion confers. The branches which are given off by the brachial or axillary plexus are, 1st., those distributed to the shoulder and neighbouring part of the chest; and 2d., those destined73 ANTERIOR THORACIC REGION. MUSCLES. to the arm. The former are named thoracic and sca- pular : the latter consist of six nerves; — one, which sup- plies the muscles about the shoulder joint, the circumflex; two, going to the integument of the arm, external and internal cutaneous ; and three, like the three arteries, sup- plying the fore-arm and hand, musculo-spiral, ulnar, and median. Let us now proceed to the dissection of the upper ex- tremity. Dissection. —Make an incision along the line of the clavicle, from the upper part of the sternum to the acromion process; a second along the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, from the lower end of the sternum to the insertion of its tendon into the humerus ; and connect the two by a third, carried longitudinally along the mid- dle of the sternum. The integument and superficial fascia are to be dissected off the fibres of the muscle together, and always in the direc- tion of their course. For this purpose the dissector, if he have the right arm, will commence with the lower angle of the flap ; if the left, with the upper angle. He will thus expose the pectoralis major muscle in its whole extent. Muscles of the Shoulder and upper Arm. Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. The Pectoralis major muscle arises from the sternal two thirds of the clavicle, half of the sternum its whole length, and from the cartilages of all the true ribs, ex- cepting the first. It is inserted by a broad tendon into the anterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. That portion of the muscle which arises from the cla- vicle, is separated from that connected with the sternum by a distinct cellular interspace; hence we speak of the clavicular portion and sternal portion of the pectoralis major. The fibres from this very extensive origin con- verge towards a narrow insertion, giving the muscle a radiated appearance. But there is a peculiarity about the formation of its tendon which must be carefully noted. The whole of the lower border is folded inwards upon the upper portion, so that the tendon is doubled upon itself. Another peculiarity results from this arrangement: the e74 ANTERIOR THORACIC REGION MUSCLES. fibres of the upper portion of the muscle are inserted into the lower part of the ridge, and those of the lower portion into the upper part. The pectoralis major muscle is separated from the del- toid by a deep cellular interspace, in which are seen the cephalic vein and the descending branch of the thoracico- acromialis artery. (.Fig. 7. 11.) Dissection. — The pectoralis major is now to be removed by divid- ing its fibres along the lower border of the clavicle, and then carrying the incision perpendicularly downwards, parallel to the sternum, and at about three inches from its border. Divide some loose cellular tissue, and several small branches of the thoracic arteries, and reflect the muscle outwards. We thus bring into view a region of consider- able interest, from which the fat and cellular tissue must be carefully removed. In the middle of this region is the pectoralis minor muscle {fig- 7. 4.), and above it a triangular space bounded * Fig. 7. The vessels and nerves of the deep pectoral region. No. 1. The deltoid muscle. 2. The clavicle. 3. The subclavius muscle, covered in by the costo-coracoid membrane. 4. The pec-LATERAL THORACIC REGION. — MUSCLES. 75 superiorly by the costo-coracoid membrane, 3., which covers in the subclavius muscle, and by the second rib and two adjoining interspaces internally. In this triangular space, 5. are found, the subclavian vein, 6., the subclavian artery, 7., and the brachial plexus of nerves, 8., all resting on the first rib; the acromial thoracic, 10., and superior thoracic arteries, 9., with their veins and nerves, and the cephalic vein, 11. Below the pectoralis minor, the axillary artery is seen embraced by the two heads of the median nerve 16., having to its inner side the axillary vein, and in front the inferior thoracic, 13., and axillary thoracic, 14., branches. The Pectoralis minor arises by three digitations from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, and is inserted into the coracoid process of the scapula. The Subclavius muscle arises by a round tendon from the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle. This muscle is concealed by the costo-coracoid membrane, an extension of the deep cer- vical fascia, by which it is invested. Before proceeding any farther with the dissection of the arm, the student should turn to chapter 3., on the Thorax, and commence the study of that cavity. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. The Serratus magnus (serratus, indented like the edge of a saw,) arises by fleshy serrations from the nine upper ribs excepting the first, and extends backwards upon the toralis minor muscle. 5. The triangular space, in which the sub- clavian artery is tied below the clavicle ; and which contains, 6. The subclavian vein. 7. The subclavian artery. 8. The brachial plexus of nerves. 9. The superior thoracic artery and nerve. 10. The thoracic branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. 11. The descend- ing branch of the thoracico-acromialis, descending by the side of the cephalic vein. 12. The acromial branch of the thoracico-acromialis. 13. The inferior thoracic artery and nerve. 14. The thoracico-alaris branch of the axillary artery. 15. The internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves resting on the axillary vein. 16. The median nerve, embrac- ing the axillary artery, with its two heads. 17. The external cuta- neous nerve, piercing the coraco-brachialis muscle. 18. The coraco- brachialis. 19. The biceps muscle. E 276 SUBSCAPULAR AND ACROMIAL REGIONS. side of the chest, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula. It indigitates by means of its five lower serrations with the obliquus externus abdo- minis. Subscapular Region. Subscapularis. The Subscapularis muscle arises from the whole of the under surface of the scapula excepting the superior angle, and terminates by a broad and thick tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle forms a part of the capsule of the joint, and is lined by its synovial membrane. Acromial Region. Deltoid. The convexity of the shoulder is formed by a large triangular muscle, the Deltoid (A, delta; ejSo?, resem- blance), which arises from the outer third of the clavicle, from the acromion process, and from the whole length of the spine of the scapula. The fibres from this broad origin converge to the middle of the outer side of the humerus, where they are inserted into a rough triangular elevation. This muscle is remarkable for its coarse tex- ture, and the combination of tendinous and muscular fibres. The deltoid muscle may now be cut away from its origin, and turned down for the purpose of bringing into view the muscles and tendons placed immediately around the shoulder joint. In so doing, a large bursa will be seen between the under surface of the muscle and the head of the humerus. Bend of the Elbow. Before, however, proceeding any farther with the dissection of the shoulder, it would be advisable to study the superficial anatomy of the bend of the elbow. With this view, an incision should be made through the integument, along the middle of the biceps muscle, to about three inches below the elbow, and bounded at its extremity by a transverse incision. The integument is next to be dissected care- fully back, and a second incision carried in the same direction to divide the external layer of the superficial fascia. This operation must be conducted with care, for a number of superficial nerves and veins occupy this region of the arm; they may be thus arranged : —77 E 3 BEND OE THE ELBOW. Internal cutaneous nerve. Intercosto-humeral, or nerve of Wrisberg. External cutaneous nerve. Spiral cutaneous nerve. Posterior ulnar vein. Anterior ulnar vein. Basilic vein. Radial vein. Cephalic vein. Median vein. Median cephalic vein. Median basilic vein. Fig. s.* The Internal cutaneous nerve, {fig. 8. 15.) is one of the internal and smallest of the branches of the axillary plexus : it pierces the fascia imme- diately below the axilla, and runs down the inner side of the upper arm, to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into several branches, which pass in front of the median basilic vein, and are distributed to the in- tegument on the inner side of the fore-arm as far as the hand, communicating in their course with the external cutaneous. The Intercosto-humeral cuta- neous nerves are the external branches of the first, second, and third intercostal nerves: they pierce the external inter- costal muscle, and supply the parts in the axilla and the in- tegument on the inner side of the arm. That from the second intercostal nerve is the longest * Fig. 8. The superficial anatomy of the bend of the elbow. No. 1. The radial vein. 2. The cephalic vein. 3. The anterior ulnar vein. 4. The posterior ulnar vein. 5. The common ulnar78 BEND OF THE ELBOW. VEINS. of the three, and extends as far as the elbow ; it is some- times called the nerve of Wrisberg, * * 16. The External cutaneous nerve, 14., pierces the deep fascia just above the bend of the elbow, where it emerges from beneath the tendon of the biceps. It passes behind the median cephalic vein, and divides into several bran- ches, which supply the integument on the outer side of the fore-arm as far as the hand, communicating with the internal cutaneous. The Spiral cutaneous nerve, 17., is a branch of the mus- culo-spiral: it pierces the deep fascia immediately below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and runs down the outer side of the fore-arm, to the integument of which it is distributed. Two veins return the blood from the inner side of the hand and fore-arm, the anterior, 3., and posterior ulnar, 4., veins; the latter commences by the vein of the little finger, vena salvatella. They ascend the ulna border of the fore-arm, one on the anterior surface, the other on the posterior, and near to the elbow unite to form a common ulnar vein, 5. At the bend of the elbow, the common ulnar vein is joined by the median basilic, and the common trunk is called the basilic vein. The Basilic vein, 6. ((3a<riXiKo<;, royal, or principal,) runs for a short distance along the inner side of the upper arm, then pierces the fascia, and continues upwards in front of the brachial artery to the axilla, where it becomes the axillary, and afterwards the subclavian vein. vein. 6. The basilic vein. 7. The point at which the basilic vein pierces the fascia. 8, The median vein. 9. The communication between the deep veins of the fore-arm and the median. 10. The median cephalic vein. 11. The median basilic vein. 12. A slight convexity of the deep fascia, formed by the brachial artery. 13. The slip of fascia derived from the tendon of the biceps, which separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. 14. The external cutaneous nerve, piercing the fascia and dividing into two branches, which pass behind the median cephalic vein. 15. The internal cu- taneous nerve dividing into branches, which pass in front of the median basilic vein. 16. The nerve of Wrisberg. 17. The spiral cutaneous nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. * Henry Augustus Wrisberg was professor of anatomy at Got- tingen. He published several excellent treatises upon practical subjects, and upon the fifth and sympathetic nerves, between the years 1780 and 1800.79 ACCIDENTS FROM BLEEDING. The Radial vein (Jig. 8. l.), collects the returning blood from the back of the hand, and runs up the outer side of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it is joined by the median cephalic, and becomes the cephalic vein. The Cephalic* vein, 2. the head), ascends along the outer side of the arm, to the insertion of the deltoid muscle, it enters the groove between the adjoining borders of the deltoid and pectoralis major, and gets in relation with the descending branch of the thoracico- acromialis artery. It then crosses the pectoralis minor muscle, and terminates in the subclavian vein. The Median vein, 8., is so named from its position in the middle of the fore-arm. It receives the returning blood from the front of the hand and fore-arm, and near to the elbow forms a trunk of moderate size, which is increased by a communicating branch, 9., from the deep veins. At the bend of the elbow, the median divides into two branches of equal size : one passes inwards to join the basilic vein, andis thence called median basilic, 11., the other outwards to the cephalic vein, thence median cephalic, 10. The former immediately overlays the brachial artery, being separated from it only by the deep fascia. Hence in theory, bleeding in this vein is prohibited ; in practice it is usually chosen, from being of larger size and more con- veniently opened. We would, however, caution the young practitioner or the unsteady hand to choose the side of security, even with the prospect of a less elegant oper- ation. Accidents from Bleeding. In the best performed operations on these veins, incon- venience sometimes arises from the wound or division of the cutaneous nerves. This accident is most likely to occur in opening the median basilic, because the internal cutaneous nerves pass in front of that vein ; the external cutaneous nerves being behind the median cephalic vein, rhe results of such an accident may be slight or serious, in proportion to the dexterity of the operator, or the con- This vein was imagined, by the ancients, to come directly from the head ; and was, therefore, selected for operation in all disorders of the head.ACCIDENTS FROM BLEEDING. 80 dition of the lancet. A sharp blade and a clean wound can never do amiss. Occasionally the median basilic is completely transfixed, and the process of fascia derived from the edge of the biceps tendon is injured. Inflammation may supervene and be followed by contraction of the fascia, causing great pain and deformity to the patient. Let me refer the student to Mr. Liston’s admirable system of “ prac- tical surgery,” for the means of relief in this very un- pleasant termination of a simple operation. But this is not all; the brachial artery is sometimes wounded also. The lancet has transfixed the entire cylinder of the vein, the process of fascia, and the coats of the artery. The consequences of this accident present three varieties, and for the best information on these we must again refer the student to Mr. Liston. As, how- ever, such accidents are often destructive of a surgeon’s reputation and practice, let alone his peace of mind, and cannot be too strongly impressed upon the student’s re- collection, we will quote their characters from Mr. Lis- ton’s work: — 1. “ False aneurism is the most common form of disease following the accidental wound of the artery at the bend of the arm.” (Page 175.) In this case the blood rushing from the wounded vessel forms for itself a sac by the condensation of the surrounding tissues. 2. Aneurismal varix is the accident next in frequency : “ the coats of the vein and artery become firmly aggluti- nated,” and “ the arterial blood is poured into the vein at each contraction in a small and forcible stream, occa- sioning a peculiar shrill sound.” —Page 176. 3. The third variety, “ Varicose aneurism,” is rare. It consists in the formation of a false aneurism between the artery and vein, and communicating with both. Thus it may be shown that this operation, so apparently simple and easy of execution, that is constantly entrusted to the hands of the tyro apprentice, often before he has ever opened a manual of anatomy, is attended with dangers, if caution be not used, equal to those of many of the greater operations of surgery. We, therefore, advise the dissec- tor not to pass hastily over this region, but consider well its relations and appliances. If other reasons for his at-ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. — MUSCLES. 81 e 5 tention were needed, he should recollect that every man is a judge of so common a proceeding; and that this operation well performed has elevated a surgeon to a ba- ronetcy. Anterior Brachial Region. The Deep fascia of the upper arm may now be dissected back ; this will bring into view the muscles of the anterior brachial region: these are the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, Brachialis anticus. The Coraco-brachialis, a name composed of its points of origin and insertion, arises from the coracoid process in com- mon with the short head of the biceps, and is inserted into a rough line on the inner side of the middle of the humerus. The Biceps (bi — KsipaXvj, two heads) arises by two ten- dons, one the short head from the coracoid process in common with the coraco-brachialis ; the other the long head, from the upper part of the glenoid cavity. The muscle is inserted by a rounded tendon into the tubercle of the radius. The long head, a long slender tendon passes through the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint enclosed in a sheath of the synovial membrane ; after leaving the cavity of the joint it is lodged in the deep groove that separates the two tuberosities of the humerus, the bicipital groove. A small synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion, and the tubercle of the radius. At the bend of the elbow, the tendon of the biceps gives off from its inner side a narrow tendinous band {fig. 8. 13.), which protects the brachial artery, and is con- tinuous with the fascia of the fore-arm. The Brachialis anticus muscle arises by two fleshy ser- rations from the depressions on either side of the inser- tion of the deltoid, and from the anterior surface of the humerus. Its fibres converge to be inserted into the coro- noid process of the ulna. Posterior Thoracic Region. — First Layer. Trapezius, Latissimus dorsi. If the subject be turned upon its face, the posterior82 POSTERIOR THORACIC REGION. — MUSCLES. muscles of the shoulder and arm may be examined. Two of these form the superficial layer of muscles of the back, the trapezius and latissimus dorsi. Dissection They are to be dissected by making an incision along the middle line of the back, from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the sacrum. From the upper point of this incision carry a second along the side of the neck, to the middle of the clavicle. Inferiorly, an incision must be made from the extremity of the sacrum, along the crest of the ilium, to about its middle. For the convenience of dissection, a fourth may be carried from the middle of the spine to the acromion process. The integument and superficial fascia, to- gether, are to be dissected off the muscles, in the course of their fibres, over the whole of this region. The Trapezius muscle (trapezium, a quadrangle with unequal sides) arises from the superior curved line on the occipital bone, from the ligamentum nuchae, spinous pro- cesses of the two last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae. The fibres converge from these various points, and are in- serted into the scapular third of the clavicle, the acromion process, and the whole length of the upper border of the spine of the scapula. The inferior fibres become tendi- nous near to the scapula, and glide over the triangular surface at the posterior extremity of its spine, being sepa- rated from it by a bursa mucosa. When the trapezius is dissected on both sides, the two muscles resemble a tra- pezium or diamond-shaped quadrangle on the posterior part of the shoulders: hence the muscle was formerly named cucullaris (cucullus, a monk’s cowl). The cervical and upper part of the dorsal portion of the muscle is ten- dinous at its origin, and forms with the muscle of the opposite side a kind of tendinous ellipse. The Latissimus dorsi muscle covers the whole of the lower part of the back and loins. It arises from the spi- nous processes of the six inferior dorsal vertebras, all the lumbar and sacral, from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and from the three lower ribs by muscular slips, which indigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres converge as the muscle passes upwards and crosses over the inferior angle of the scapula, to be inserted with the teres major into the posterior bici- pital ridge of the humerus. A synovial bursa is interposed between the muscle and the lower angle of the scapula: sometimes it has a muscular connection with the scapula at this point.POSTERIOR SCAPULAR REGION. — MUSCLES. 83 e 6 The latissimus dorsi is occasionally thrown off the in- ferior angle of the scapula, a painful and puzzling acci- dent, and not easy of reduction. The bursa too is liable to become inflamed, when a tumour of very large size may be found in this situation resulting from the disten- sion of the synovial sac. The trapezius muscle may now be removed, by cutting it away from its insertion, and turning it to the opposite side; and the latis- simus dorsi, by dividing it near to its tendon, and turning it down. Posterior Thoracic Region. — Second Layer. We thus bring into view a group of three muscles, forming the second layer of muscles of the back, which belong in their actions to the scapula : — Levator anguli scapulae, Rhomboideus minor, Rhomboideus major. The Levator anguli scapidce arises by distinct slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the upper angle and posterior border of the scapula, as far as the triangular smooth surface at the root of its spine. The Rhomboideus minor (rhombus, a parallelogram with four equal sides) is a narrow slip of muscle detached from the Rhomboideus major by a slight cellular inter- space. It arises from the spinous processes of the two last cervical vertebrae and ligamentum nuchae, and is inserted into the edge of the triangular surface on the posterior border of the scapula. The Rhomboideus major arises from the spinous pro- cesses of the four upper dorsal vertebrae and their supra- spinous ligaments, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula as far as its inferior angle. Posterior Scapular Region. We now proceed to examine a group of muscles, situated upon the dorsum of the scapula, the posterior scapular region: these are the Supra-spinatus, Infra-spinatus, Teres minor, Teres major.84 POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. — TRICEPS. The Supra-spinatus muscle (supra, above; spina, the spine,) arises from the whole of the supra-spinous fossa, anti is inserted into the uppermost depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle cannot be well seen without cutting away the acromion process with a saw. The Infra-spinatus (infra, beneath ; spina, the spine,) is covered in by a layer of tendinous fascia, which must be removed before the fibres of the muscle can be seen, the deltoid muscle having been previously turned down from its scapular origin. It arises from the whole of the infra- spinous fossa, and is inserted into the middle depression upon the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The Teres minor muscle (teres, round,) arises from the middle third of the inferior border of the scapula, and is inserted into the lower depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendons of these three muscles, with that of the subscapularis, are in immediate contact with the joint, and form part of its ligamentous capsule, thereby preserving the solidity of the articulation. They are therefore the structures most frequently ruptured in dis- location of the shoulder-joint with violence. The Teres major muscle arises from the lower third of the inferior border of the scapula, encroaching a little upon its dorsal aspect, and is inserted in common with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, into the posterior bicipital ridge. A large triangular space exists between the two teres muscles, which is divided into two minor spaces by the long head of the triceps. jPosterior Brachial Region. The remaining region of the shoulder and upper arm is the posterior brachial, in which only one muscle is found, the triceps extensor cubiti. The Triceps (tria — KE<paXai, three heads,) arises by three heads. Considered in relation to their length, these heads have been named long, short, and middle, and, in reference to their position, internal, external, and middle; the term middle, in the former case, referring to the external head, and in the latter case to the long head. This has given rise to much confusion and misunderstanding. We shall,ACTIONS or THE MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. ' 85 therefore, confine ourselves to the designations derived from their relations. The external head arises from the humerus immediately below the insertion of the teres minor. The internal head (short) arises from the humerus immediately below the insertion of the teres major. The scapular head (long) lies between the two others, and arises from the upper third of the inferior border of the scapula. The three heads unite to form a broad aponeu- rotic tendon, which is inserted into the olecranon process of the ulna. The scapular head of the triceps passes between the teres minor and major, and divides the triangular space between those two muscles into two smaller spaces, one of which is triangular, the other quadrangular. The triangidar space is bounded by the teres minor, teres major, and scapular head of the triceps ; it. gives passage to the dorsalis scapulae artery and veins. The quadangular space is bounded on three sides by the three preceding muscles, and on the fourth by the humerus. Through this space pass the posterior circumflex artery and veins, and circumflex nerve. Having thus examined all the muscles of the shoulder and upper arm, let us now inquire into their functions. Actions.—The pectoralis major draws the arm against the thorax, while its upper fibres assist the upper part of the trapezius in raising the shoulder, as in supporting weights. The lower fibres depress the shoulder with the aid of the latissimus dorsi. Taking its fixed point from the shoulder, the pectoralis major assists the pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus magnus, in drawing up and expanding the chest. The pectoralis minor, in addition to this action, draws upon the coracoid process, and assists in rotating the scapula upon the chest. The subclavius draws the clavicle downwards and forwards, and thereby assists in steadying the shoulder. The serratus magnus is the great external inspiratory muscle, raising the ribs when the shoulders are fixed, and thereby increasing the cavity of the chest. Acting upon the scapula, it draws the shoulder forwards, as we see to be the case in diseased lungs, where the chest has become almost fixed from apprehension of the expanding action of the respiratory muscles. Ihe trapezius muscle carries the entire86 AXILLA. BOUNDARIES. shoulder upwards and backwards, and is assisted in this action by the levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor, and rhomboideus major. Acting in the opposite direction, they flex the vertebral column towards the shoulder. The lower fibres of the trapezius unite with the latissimus dorsi, in drawing the shoulder and arm downwards and backwards. When the arms are fixed, as by crutches, or seizing the branch of a tree, the latissimi dorsi muscles lift the entire trunk and carry it forwards. The supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis, are the circumductor muscles of the arm ; they regulate the movements of the head of the humerus against the glenoid cavity. The deltoid is the elevator muscle of the arm in a direct line, and, by means of its extensive origin, can carry the arm forwards or backwards so as to range with the hand a considerable segment of a large circle. The arm, raised by the deltoid, is a good illustration of a lever of the third power, so common in the animal machine, by which velocity is gained at the expense of power. In this lever the weight (hand) is at one extremity, the fulcrum (the glenoid cavity) at the opposite end, and the power (the insertion of the muscle) between the two, but nearer to the fulcrum than the weight. The muscles of the anterior brachial region are flexors; the coraco-brachialis flexing the humerus on the scapula, and carrying it inwards. The biceps andbrachialis anticus flex the fore-arm upon the arm. The former possesses also the additional action of supinating the fore-arm, by means of the obliquity of its insertion into the tuberosity of the radius. The triceps is an extensor of the fore- arm ; hence its title, triceps extensor cubiti. AXILLA. The Axilla (arm-pit) is the space between the side of the chest and shoulder. In form it resembles a triangular cone, the apex being above at the clavicle, the base below at the lower borders of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi. It is bounded in front by the two pectoral muscles ; behind, by the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus87 AXILLARY ARTERY.— RELATIONS. dorsi; and, internally, by the serratus magnus and side of the chest. The axillary space contains the Axillary artery with its seven branches, Axillary vein, Axillary plexus of nerves, Long thoracic or external respiratory nerve, Three intercosto-humeral nerves, Lymphatic glands imbedded in cellular tissue. Axillary Artery. The Axillary artery forms a gentle curve through the axillary space from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the latissimus dorsi. Its relations are, — In Front. Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Pectoralis major. Internally. First intercostal muscle. First serration of ser- ratus magnus. Plexus of nerves. Behind. Plexus of nerves. Tendon of sub- scapularis. Coraco-brachialis. The artery is separated from its anterior relations by cellular tissue above, and below by the two heads of the median nerve. The axillary vein lies at first to its inner side, and then gets in front of the artery. A slight inspection of this artery and its numerous relations, will serve to show that its ligature would be an extremely injudicious and dangerous operation, warranted only by the pressure of extreme circumstances. But the student may be called upon to give the steps of the operation ; he must, therefore, reflect upon the position, depth, and relations of the artery. A superficial vessel requires only a short incision, the length increasing with the depth of the artery. Operation. — An incision is to be made along the middle of the axilla, about two inches in length ; the integument, superficial, and deep fascia, which is very thin, are to be divided. Ttie operator bends the fore-arm to relax the nerves; and, drawing aside the vein, and separating the nerves, he carries the needle around the artery. The objections to this operation are numerous. The breaking up of the loose cellular tissue may give rise to suppuration and sinuses. Nerves may be injured or tied, the vein or veins may be wounded, and, even when the artery is reached, it is tied in the midst of a num- ber of branches.88 AXILLARY ARTERY BRANCHES. Branches. — The branches of the Axillary artery are seven in number : — Thoracico-acromialis, Superior thoracic, Inferior thoracic, Thoracico-axillaris, Subscapular, Circumflex anterior, Circumflex posterior. The thoracico-acromialis and superior thoracic, are found in the triangular space above the pectoralis minor. The inferior thoracic and thoracico-axillaris, below the pectoralis minor. And the three remaining branches below the lower border of the subscapularis. The Thoracico-acromialis {fig. 7.) is a short trunk that ascends to the space above the pectoralis minor muscle, and divides into three branches, — thoracic, 10., which is distributed to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland ; acromial, 12., passing outwards to the acromion; descend- ing, li., to the space between the deltoid and pectoralis major that lodges the cephalic vein. The Superior thoracic, 9. (short) runs along the upper border of the pectoralis minor, and is distributed to the jiectoral muscles and mammary gland. The Inferior thoracic, 13. (long), runs along the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and is distributed to the pectoral and serratus muscles, and mammary gland. The Thoracico-axillaris, 14., is a small branch distri- buted to the plexus of nerves and glands in the axilla. The Subscapular artery, the largest of the branches of the axillary, runs along the lower border of the sub- scapularis muscle, to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it inosculates with the posterior scapular, a branch of the subclavian. It supplies the muscles on the under surface, and inferior border of the scapula, and side of the chest. At about an inch and a half from the axillary, it gives off a large branch, the dorsalis scapula;, which passes backwards through the triangular space bounded by the teres minor, teres major, and scapular head of the triceps, and beneath the infra-spinatus to the dorsum ofBRACHIAL ARTERY. RELATIONS. 89 the scapula, where it is distributed, inosculating with the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries. The Circumflex arteries wind around the neck of the humerus. The anterior, very small, passes beneath the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, and sends a branch upwards along the bicipital groove to supply the shoulder-joint. The Posterior circumflex, of larger size, passes back- wards through the quadrangular space bounded by the teres minor and major, the scapular head of the triceps and the humerus, and is distributed to the deltoid muscle and joint: sometimes this artery is a branch of the superior profunda of the brachial. It then ascends be- hind the tendon of the teres major, and is distributed to the deltoid without passing through the quadrangular space. Brachial Artery. The Brachial artery runs down the inner side of the arm, from the lower border of the latissimus dorsi to the bend of the elbow. Relations.— In its course downwards, it rests upon the coraco-brachialis muscle, internal head of the triceps, and brachialis anticus. To its outer side are the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles, and in front it has the basilic vein, and is crossed by the median nerve. Its relations, within its sheath, are the vense comites. Plan of the relations of the brachial artery. Inner Side. In Front. Basilic vein. Deep fascia. Median nerve. Brachial artery. Behind. Short head of triceps. Coraco-brachialis. Brachialis anticus. Outer Side. Coraco-brachialis. Biceps.90 BRACHIAL ARTERY. BRANCHES. Operation. — The brachial artery is usually tied at about its mid- dle. An incision, three inches in length, is made along the inner border of the biceps, which shall divide the integument, superficial, and deep fascia. The basilic vein, which lies in front of the sheath, is then to be drawn aside, together with the median nerve, which may be seen crossing the sheath at that point. The sheath must then be carefully opened, and a needle passed beneath the artery, taking care to avoid the two veins (venae comites) by which it is accompanied. The only difficulty the student will experience in this operation is the finding of the sheath, which is placed beneath the edge of the biceps. Brachial Artery — Branches : Superior profunda — Posterior articular, Inferior profunda, Anastomotica magna. The Superior profunda winds around the humerus, between the triceps and the bone, to the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, where it inos- culates with the radial recurrent branch. It accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve. In its course it supplies the triceps muscle, and gives off one remarkable branch (pos- terior articular') which descends to the joint, and inos- culates with the posterior interosseous recurrent branch. The Inferior profunda descends to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon in company with the ulnar nerve, and inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent. The Anastomotica magna is given off at right angles from the brachial, at about two inches above the joint. It passes directly inwards, and divides into two branches which inosculate with the anterior ulnar recurrent, and inferior profunda. Axillary Plexus. The Axillary plexus of nerves is formed by the com- munications of the anterior branches of the four last cervical and first dorsal nerves. The plexus is broad in the neck, but narrows as it approaches the axillary artery, lying at first external to that vessel, then getting behind it, and at about the middle of the axilla completely sur- rounding it. At this point it divides into its six ultimate branches. The branches given off from the plexus, previously to its division, are thoracic and scapular.91 AXILLARY PLEXUS OF NERVES. Formed by Anterior branches' of the four last Axillary cervical nerves " Plexus. and first dorsal. Humeral Branches. " Short thoracic. Long thoracic. Supra-scapular. Subscapular. Descending Branches. External cutaneous, Median, Internal cutaneous, Ulnar, Circumflex, Musculo-spiral. The Short thoracic nerves {Jig. 7. 9. 13.), two or three in number, are distributed to the muscles and integument at the upper part of the thorax accompanying the supe- rior and inferior thoracic arteries. The Long thoracic (external respiratory of Bell) is a long branch arising from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, immediately after their escape from the interver- tebral foramina. It passes down behind the plexus and upon the side of the chest, resting on the serratus magnus muscle, to which it is distributed. The Supra-scapular nerve passes backwards to the notch in the superior border of the scapula, through which it emerges into the supra-spinous fossa, supplying the supra-spinatus and neighbouring muscles. The Subscapular nerves are three in number ; they pass inwards, and supply the subscapularis muscle. One of them, larger than the others, accompanies the sub- scapular artery, and distributes branches to the adjoining muscles. The terminal branches of the plexus are arranged in the following order — the external cutaneous, and one head of the median to the outer side of the artery ; the other head of the median, internal cutaneous, and ulnar, upon its inner side; and the circumflex and musculo-spiral behind. The External cutaneous nerve {fig.*l. \T.,Jig.^>. 14.) (musculo-cutaneous, perforans Casserii) pierces the coraco-brachialis muscle, then passes between the biceps and brachialis anticus, to the outer side of the bend of the92 BRANCHES. AXILLARY PLEXUS. elbow, where it perforates the fascia, and divides into branches, which run behind the median cephalic vein, and supply the integument on the outer side of the fore-arm as far as the hand. It communicates on the fore-arm with branches of the internal cutaneous. The Median nerve (Jig. 7. 16.) is so called, because it runs along the middle of the arm to the palm of the hand, and is, therefore, intermediate in position, between the radial and ulnar nerves. It commences by two heads, which embrace the axillary artery ; lies at first to the outer side of the brachial artery, which it crosses at its middle, and descends on its inner side to the bend of the elbow. It then passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles, and runs down the fore-arm, between the flexor sublimis and pro- fundus, and beneath the annular ligament, to the palm of the hand. The Internal cutaneous nerve (Jig. 8.15.) is intended for the supply of the integument, on the inner side of the fore-arm as far as the hand : it has already been described in the superficial anatomy of the bend of the elbow (page 77.). The Ulnar nerve runs down the inner side of the arm, to the groove between the internal condyle and olecranon, resting upon the internal head of the triceps, and accom- panied by tbe inferior profunda artery. At the elbow it is superficial, and supported by the inner condyle, against which it is easily compressed, giving rise to the thrilling sensation along the inner side of the fore-arm and little finger, ascribed to striking the “ funny bone.” At this point the nerve passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. If these nerves together with the brachial artery be drawn aside, the two posterior branches of the plexus, circumflex and musculo-spiral, are brought into view. The Circumflex nerve passes over the border of the subscapularis muscle, and winds around the neck of the humerus, with the posterior circumflex artery, supplying the deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint. The Musculo-spiral nerve is the largest branch of the plexus: it winds around the humerus in the spiral groove, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, to the space93 FORE-ARM. DISSECTION. between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles, and thence onwards to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into two branches, the posterior inter- osseous and radial nerve. Its branches in the upper arm are, 1. Muscular to the triceps, hence its designation “ musculo “ spiral” being applied to its course. 2. Spiral cutaneous nerve, (Jig- 8.17.,) which pierces the deep fascia, between the deltoid and external head of the triceps muscle, and supplies the integument on the outer side of the fore-arm, as far as the wrist. It is described at page 78. The course of the median, ulnar, and radial nerves in the fore-arm will be described in the next section. Fore-arm. Dissection. — The dissection of the fore-arm has been partially com- menced in the examination of the bend of the elbow. It must now be continued by carrying the incision along the middle of the fore-arm and over the wrist to the root of the middle finger, where it may be ter- minated by a transverse incision made across the heads of the meta- carpal bones. The integument is then to be turned to either side. In performing this operation on the ulnar side of the hand, care must be taken to avoid raising the thin layer of muscular fibres which forms the palmaris brevis muscle. An incision is to be carried along the middle of the palmar surface of each of the fingers, and the integu- ment turned aside from these to show the flexor tendons, and the artery and nerve at either border of the finger. The superficial fascia is next to be dissected off, and the cutaneous nerves traced downwards between its layers to the hand. The super- ficial veins may also be cleared of the surrounding fat aiid cellular tissue. The Deep fascia of the fore-arm is dense and thick, and very different from the thin layer of the upper arm. Towards the inner condyle, it has a muscular connection, and is strengthened by the band of fascia (Jig. 8.13.), derived from the tendon of the biceps. It presents all the general characters of deep fascia; surrounding all the muscles of the fore-arm, being attached to the prominent points of bones, forming sheaths for the numerous muscles, and by its inner surface giving origin to muscular fibres. At the wrist it becomes much thickened, and is attached to the projecting points of the scaphoid and trapezium bones on one side, and to the pisiform and unciform bones on the94 FORE-ARM. MUSCLES. other, forming the anterior annular ligament; posteriorly it forms another band less thick than the anterior. It is attached to the bones by each extremity of the posterior annular ligament, and binds down the extensor tendons as they pass forwards to the hand. In the palm of the hand is a dense tendinous fascia, the palmar, which is analogous to the dense layer which we previously examined in the sole of the foot, the plantar fascia. The Palmar fascia is narrow towards the wrist, and attached to the annular ligament. Approaching the base of the fingers it becomes broad, and divides into four slips, each of which is subdivided into two smaller slips, which are inserted into the sides of the bases of the first phalanges, giving passage to the flexor tendons. The point of division of these slips is strengthened by a strong interlacement of transverse fibres. Muscles of the Fore-arm. The deep fascia of the fore-arm may now be divided and turned aside, and the superficial layer of muscles of the fore-arm examined. There are eight muscles on the anterior aspect of the fore-arm, all flexors and pronators, five in the superficial layer, and three in the deep. The superficial muscles in their order, from radius to ulna, are Anterior Aspect.— Superficial Group. Pronator radii teres, Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor carpi ulnaris. The Pronator radii teres arises by two heads, one from the inner condyle of the humerus and fascia of the fore- arm, the other from the coronoid process of the ulna; the median nerve passing between them. Its tendon is inserted into the middle third of the oblique ridge of the radius. The two heads of this muscle are best seen, by cutting away that which arises from the inner condyle, and turning it aside. The second head will then be seen with the median nerve lying across it.SUPERFICIAL AND DEEP GROUPS. 95 The Flexor carpi radialis arises from the inner condyle and the sheath of fascia which surrounds it. Its tendon passes through a groove in the scaphoid bone, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. The Palmaris longus muscle arises from the inner con- dyle, and from the sheath of fascia which surrounds it. It is inserted into the palmar fascia. Cut the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus from their origins, in order to obtain a good view of the whole extent of origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum. The Flexor sublimis digitorum (perforatus) arises from the inner condyle, coronoid process of the ulna, and oblique line of the radius. The median nerve and ulnar artery pass between its origins. It divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the base of the second phalanges of the fingers, splitting at their terminations to give passage to the tendons of the deep flexors; thence its designation perforatus. The Flexor carpi idnaris arises by two heads, one from the inner condyle, the other from the olecranon and two thirds of the inner border of the ulna. The ulnar nerve passes between its two heads. Its tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone. Remove the flexor sublimis, and draw the pronator teres upwards with hooks, the deep layer will then be exposed : it consists of the Deep Group. Flexor profundus digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, Pronator quadratus. The Flexor profundus digitorum (perforans) arises from the upper two thirds of the ulnar and part of the inter- osseous membrane, and terminates in four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, and between the two slips of the flexor sublimis, (hence its designation per- forans), to be inserted into the base of the last phalanges. Four little muscular fasciculi, called lumbricales, are con- nected with the tendons of this muscle in the hand. They will be described with the muscles of the hand.PORE-ARM. ARTERIES. 96 The Flexor longus pollicis arises from the upper two thirds of the radius, and part of the interosseous mem- brane. Its tendon passes beneath the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. If the tendons of the two last muscles be drawn aside or divided, the third muscle of this group will be brought into view, lying across the lower part of the two bones. The Pronator quadratus arises from the ulna, and is inserted into the lower fourth of the oblique line, on the outer side of the radius. This muscle occupies about the lower fourth of the two bones, is broad at its origin, and narrower at its insertion. Actions.—The pronator radii teres and pronator quadratus muscles rotate the radius upon the ulnar, and render the hand prone. The remaining muscles are flexors : —two flexors of the wrist,flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris ; two of the fingers, flexor sublimis and profundus, the former flexing the second phalanx, the latter the last; one flexor of the last phalanx of the thumb, flexor longus pollicis. The palmaris longus is a tensor of the palmar fascia. Arteries of the Fore-arm. The Arteries on the anterior aspect of the fore-arm are the radial, ulnar, and interosseous. The brachial arterj' at the bend of the elbow divides into two branches, the radial and ulnar. Radial Artery. The Radial artery runs along the radial side of the fore-arm, from the bend of the elbow to the wrist: it there turns around the base of the thumb, beneath its extensor tendons, and passes between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand. It then crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulna side of the hand, forming the deep palmar arch, and terminates by inosculating with the superficial palmar arch. In the upper half of its course, the radial artery is situated between the supinator longus muscle, and pro- nator radii teres, in the lower half between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. It rests in97 RADIAL ARTERY. RELATIONS. its course downwards, upon the insertions of the supinator brevis, and pronator radii teres, radial origin of the flexor sublimis, flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus, and is covered in by the integument and fasciae. Plan of the relations of the radial artery in the fore-arm. In Front. Deep fascia. Outer Side. Supinator longus. Radial nerve (middle third of its course). Supinator brevis. Pronator radii teres. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Wrist-joint. Operations. — The radial artery may be tied in any part of its course, either above, where it is placed between the supinator longus and pronator teres, or below, between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. In either case the border of the supinator longus is the guide for the incision, and the same parts are to be divided in both, viz., the integument, superficial, and deep fascia. The operation, at the upper part of the arm, will require the longer incision on account of the greater depth of the vessel, though the difference in that particular is very trifling. In the middle third of its course the radial artery is accompanied by the radial nerve. The radial artery may likewise be tied where it is winding around the root of the thumb, to enter the palm of the hand. In this ope- ration the incision should be made along the middle of the space be- tween the tendons of the extensor primi and secundi internodii. In dividing the superficial fascia, one or two branches of veins may be wounded, and a branch of the dorsal division of the radial nerve which crosses this space. The artery is placed deeply upon the trapezium bone, and is accompanied by its two venae comites. Pronator radu teres. Flexor carpi radialis. The Branches of the Radial artery may be arranged into four groups :— Elbow - Fore-arm Wrist - - Recurrent radial. - Muscular branches. ' Superficialis volae. Carpalis anterior. - Carpalis posterior. Metacarpalis. _Dorsales pollicis. FRADIAL ARTERY. BRANCHES. 98 Hand Princeps pollicis. Radialis indicis. Interosseae. Perforantes. The Recurrent branch turns upward in the space between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus to supply the structures about the joint. It inosculates with the superior profunda artery. The Muscular branches, as in every other part of the body, supply the muscles adjacent to the artery. The Superjicialis voice is given off from the radial artery while at the wrist. It passes between the fibres of the abductor pollicis muscle, and inosculates with the termina- tion of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. The Carpal branches are intended for the supply of the wrist, the anterior carpal in front, and the posterior, the larger of the two, behind. The Metacarpal branch runs forwards on the second dorsal interosseous muscle, and is distributed to the adjoin- ing sides of the index and middle fingers. Sometimes it is of very large size. The I)orsales pollicis are two small branches, running along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. The Princeps pollicis descends along the border of the metacarpal bone, between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis to the base of the first phalanx, where it divides into two branches, which are distributed to the two sides of the palmar aspect of the thumb. The Radialis indicis is also situated between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis, and runs along the radial side of the index finger, forming its collateral artery. The Interossece and perforantes are branches of the deep palmar arch, the former supplying the interosseous muscles, the latter passing between the two heads of the dorsal interossei, to inosculate with the carpal and metacarpal branches. Ulnar Artery. The Ulnar artery crosses the arm obliquely to the commencement of its middle third, it then runs down the99 ULNAR ARTERY. — RELATIONS. ulnar side of the fore-arm to the wrist, crosses the annular ligament, and forms the superficial palmar arch, which ter- minates by inosculating with the superficialis volae. Relations. — In the upper or oblique portion of its course, it lies between the superficial and deep layers of muscles of the fore-arm. In the second part of its course, it is placed between the flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor sub- limis digitorum. While crossing the annular ligament, it is protected from injury by a strong tendinous arch, thrown over it from the pisiform bone; and in the palm it rests upon the tendons of the flexor sublimis, being covered in by the palmar fascia. Plan of the relations of the ulnar artery. In Front. Superficial layer of muscles. Deep fascia. In the Hand. Tendinous arch from the pisiform bone. Palmaris brevis muscle. Palmar fascia. Inner Side. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Ulnar nerve (lower two thirds). Deep layer of muscles. Flexor profundus digitorum. In the Hand. Annular ligament. Tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum. Operations. — The ulnar artery is usually tied in three situations : — 1st. At the commencement of the middle third of the fore-arm, where it emerges from beneath the flexor sublimis. 2d. In the lower third. 3d. As it crosses the annular ligament. In the two first operations the border of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle is the guide for the incision, in the latter the pisiform bone. The high operation is the most difficult, on account of the depth of the artery and the danger of separating the wrong muscles. The lower operations are simple and easy, the artery lying quite superficially. The ulna nerve lies immediately to the ulnar side of the artery from the com- mencement of the middle third to the wrist, and therefore is not en- dangered in the upper operation. The venae comites are at each side. The structures to be cut through are the integument, superficial fascia, F 2 ILLCl Ott(o» Flexor sublimis digito- rum.ULNAR ARTERY. BRANCHES. 100 deep fascia, the sheath of the vessels, and, at the wrist, the palmaris brevis muscle and tendinous band. In wounds of arteries, wherever they occur, both extremities of the vessel are to be tied ; and this is the rule of practice for wounds in the palm of the hand. The Branches of the Ulnar artery may be arranged into four groups : — Elbow J Anterior ulnar recurrent. (_ Posterior ulnar recurrent. Fore-arm { Interosseous Muscular. f Ant. inteross. Post, inteross. — recurrent. Wrist Hand {Carpalis anterior. Carpalis posterior. Digitales, four. The Anterior ulnar recurrent returns upon the elbow, between the pronator teres and brachialis anticus and inosculates with the anastomotica magna. The Posterior ulnar recurrent returns upon the elbow, by passing beneath the origins of the superficial layer of muscles, and then between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. It inosculates with the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna. The Common interosseous is a short trunk, which divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The Anterior interosseous runs down the fore-arm upon the interosseous membrane, and at the upper border of the pronator quadratus pierces that membrane, and de- scends to the back of the wrist, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. The Posterior interosseous artery passes back through an opening between the upper part of the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament, and is distributed to the muscles on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm. It gives off a recurrent branch, which returns upon the elbow beneath the anconeus muscle, and anastomoses with the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda. The Muscular branches supply the muscles situated on the ulnar border of the fore-arm. The Carpal branches, anterior and posterior, are distri-NERVES OF THE FORE-ARM. 101 buted to the anterior and posterior aspects of the wrist joint. The posterior is the largest. r ■ The Digital branches supply the collateral branches to the little, ring, and middle fingers, and the ulnar side of the index finger. The Superficial palmar arch receives the termination of the deep arch, near to the carpal extremity of the little finger, and terminates in the superficialis volae, upon the ball of the thumb. Nerves of the Fore-arm. The Nerves of the fore-arm are the cutaneous, the median, ulnar, radial, and posterior interosseous. The cutaneous nerves, derived from the external cutaneous, internal cutaneous, and spiral cutaneous, have been already described (see pages 77, 78.) Median Nerve. The Median nerve runs down the anterior aspect of the fore-arm, from the bend of the elbow to the hand, where it divides into its five terminal branches. Relations — At the bend of the elbow, it passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. In the fore-arm, it lies between the flexor sublimis and profundus, and at the wrist it passes with the tendons of these two muscles beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand. Branches. — The branches of the median nerve may be arranged in two groups, there being none given off in the upper arm. Fore, arm Hand { { Muscular. Anterior interosseous. Superficial palmar. Five digital. The Muscular l/ranches are distributed to the muscles on the anterior aspect of the fore-arm. The Anterior interosseous is a large branch, accompany- ing the anterior interosseous artery, and supplying the f 3102 MEDIAN AND ULNAR. deep layer of muscles in the fore-arm. It passes beneath the pronator quadratus muscle, and pierces the interosseous membrane near to the wrist. On reaching the posterior aspect of the wrist, it joins a large and remarkable ganglion, which gives off a number of branches for the supply of the joint. The Superficial palmar branch arises from the median nerve immediately above the annular ligament, and is distributed to the integument in the palm of the hand. The Digital branches are five in number ; two pass out- wards to the thumb; one to the radial side of the index finger; one subdivides for the supply of the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers ; and the remaining one, for the supply of the adjoining sides of the middle and ring fingers. Ulnar Nerve. The Ulnar nerve runs along the ulnar side of the fore- arm to the wrist, crosses the annular ligament with the ulnar artery, and divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. Relations.—At the elbow the nerve lies in the groove between the inner condyle of the humerus and olecranon, and between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. At the commencement of the middle third of the fore-arm, it becomes applied against the artery, and lies to its ulnar side, as far as the hand. Branches.—The branches of the ulnar nerve may be arranged into four groups : — Upper arm - To the triceps muscle. Fore-arm - Muscular. Dorsum of hand - Dorsal branch. t-, T si j T Superficial palmar. Falm of hand < ^ 1 , 1 J L Deep palmar. A few filaments are given to the short head of the triceps. The Muscular branches supply the muscles on the ulnar side of the fore-arm. The Dorsal branch passes beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, at the lower third of the fore-arm,103 MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. and divides into branches which supply two fingers and a half on the posterior aspect of the hand, and communicate with the radial nerve. The Superficial palmar branch divides into four fila- ments, which are distributed to the ulnar border of the hand, to the ulnar side of the little finger, to the adjoining borders of the little and ring fingers, and a communicating branch is sent to join the median nerve. The Deep palmar branch passes between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti, to the deep palmar arch, supplying all the deep parts in the palm of the hand. Musculo-spiral Nerve. The Musculo-spircd nerve, at the bend of the elbow, divides into two branches of nearly equal size, the radial and posterior interosseous. The Radial runs along the radial side of the fore arm to the commencement of its lower third; it then passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus to the back of the wrist and hand, where it supplies two fingers and a half, and communicates with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. It gives off a few branches to the muscles on the radial side of the fore arm. Relations. — In the upper third of the fore-arm it lies beneath the border of the supinator longus muscle. In the middle third it is in relation with the radial artery, lying to its outer side. It then quits the artery, ancl passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, to reach the back of the hand. The Posterior interosseous nerve separates from the radial at the bend of the elbow, pierces the supinator brevis muscle, and emerges from its lower border on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm, where it divides into branches which supply the whole of the muscles on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm. One branch, longer than the rest, descends to the posterior part of the wrist- joint, where it forms a large gangliform swelling (the common character of nerves which supply joints), from which numerous branches are distributed to the wrist- joint.POSTERIOR REGION OF THE FORE-ARM. 104* The branches of the Musculo-spiral nerve may be thus arranged: — Upper arm Fore-arm { { Muscular, Spiral cutaneous. Radial, Posterior interosseous. If we make an analysis of the supply of nerves to the muscles of the upper extremity, from the various sources above described, we shall find them disposed according to the following arrangement: — Deltoid muscle — Circumflex nerve. Upper arm Fore-arm Hand ffront — External cutaneous. \ back — Musculo-spiral. Xfront — Median, ulnar, and radial. \ back — Radial and posterior interosseous. Xfront — Median and ulnar. \ back — Radial and ulnar. Posterior Region of the Fore-arm. No new dissection is required for this region: the integument already thrown back from the anterior region is now to be removed altogether, and with it the super- ficial fascia: in this proceeding the posterior ulnar vein may be seen throughout its course, taking its origin in- feriorly from the vein of the little finger, “ vena salva- tella.” On the radial side, the radial vein may be ob- served commencing by the veins on the back of the hand, and winding around the radial border of the fore- arm to the bend of the elbow. The posterior branches of the internal cutaneous nerve are distributed along the course of the posterior ulnar vein, and the external cuta- neous and spiral cutaneous, on the radial border of the fore-arm. At the lower third of the fore-arm, the radial nerve is seen piercing the fascia, to reach the back part of the hand ; and, just above the wrist, the dorsal branch of the ulnar emerges from the fascia to the same destination. On removing the deep fascia, the superficial layer of muscles is brought into view.105 MUSCLES. — SUPERFICIAL LAYER. f 5 Posterior aspect. — Superficial Layer : Supinator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior, carpi radialis brevior, communis digitorum, minimi digiti, carpi ulnaris, Anconeus. The Supinator longus muscle is placed along the radial border of the fore-arm. It arises from the external con- dyloid ridge of the humerus, nearly as high as the inser- tion of the deltoid, and is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. This muscle must be divided through the middle, and the two ends turned to either side to expose the next muscle. rThe Extensor carpi radialis longior arises from the external condyloid ridge below the preceding. Its tendon passes through a groove in the radius, immediately behind the styloid process, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. The Extensor carpi radialis brevior is seen by drawing aside the former muscle. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Its tendon is lodged in the same groove of the radius with the extensor carpi radialis longior. The Extensor communis digitorum arises from the ex- ternal condyle, and divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the fingers. The same peculiarities exist in the arrangement of these tendons as was before noticed in the extensor tendons of the foot. Opposite the first phalanx, the tendon {Jig. 9. 2.) spreads out so as to form a broad aponeurosis, which covers the whole of the posterior aspect of the finger. At the first joint the aponeurosis divides into three slips. The middle slip, 3., is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral portions are continued on- wards on each side of the joint, to be inserted into the last phalanx, 4. Little oblique tendinous slips connect the ten- dons of this muscle as they cross the back of the hand.106 POSTERIOR REGION OF THE FORE-ARM. The Extensor minimi digiti (auricularis) is an off-set from the extensor communis. It as- sists in forming the tendinous expansion on the back of the little finger, and is inserted into the two last phalanges. It is to this muscle that the little finger owes its power of separate ex- tension, and from being called into action when the point of the finger is introduced into the meatus of the ear for the pur- pose of removing unpleasant sensations, or producing titilla- tion: the muscle was called by the older writers “ auricularis.” The Extensor carpi ulnaris arises from the external condyle and the upper two thirds of the border of the ulna. Its tendon passes through the posterior groove in the ulna, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The Anconeus arises from the outer condyle, and is inserted into the olecranon and triangular surface on the upper extremity of the ulna. When these muscles have been examined, the extensor communis digitorum and extensor minimi digiti should be removed, and the extensor carpi ulnaris drawn aside, to * Fig. 9. The arrangement of the extensor tendon upon the dorsal surface of a finger. No. 1. The metacarpal bone of the middle finger. 2. The ex- tensor tendon expanding into a broad aponeurosis, which divides into three slips. 3. The middle slip, inserted into the base of the second phalanx. 4. The two lateral slips, inserted into the base of the third phalanx. 5. 5. Two dorsal interossei, showing their bifid origin, 6. 6., and inserted by an aponeurotic expansion into the sides of the ex- tensor tendon. 7. The second lumbricalis muscle, also inserted into the side of the extensor tendon.107 DEEP LAYER. F 6 MUSCLES. bring into view the deep layer, which consists of five muscles. Deep Layer. Supinator brevis, Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, • primi internodii pollicis, secundi internodii pollicis, indicis. The Supinator brevis cannot be seen in its entire ex- tent, until the radial extensors of the carpus are divided from their origin. It arises from the external condyle and external lateral ligament, and winds around the up- per part of the radius to be inserted into the upper third of its oblique line. The posterior interosseous artery and nerve are seen perforating the lower border of this muscle. The Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is placed imme- diately below the supinator brevis. It arises from the ulna, interosseous membrane, and radius, and is inserted, as its name implies, into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Its tendon passes through the groove im- mediately in front of the styloid process of the radius. The Extensor primi internodii pollicis, the smallest of the muscles in this layer, arises from the interosseous membrane and radius, and passes through the same groove with the extensor ossis metacarpi, to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. The Extensor secundi internodii pollicis arises from the ulna and interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct groove in the radius, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. The Extensor indicis arises from the ulna as high up as the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and from the inter- osseous membrane. Its tendon is inserted into the apo- neurosis formed by the common extensor tendon of the index finger. When the posterior surface of the lower extremities of the radius and ulna is examined, a number of grooves will be seen, through which the tendons of the muscles of the posterior region of the fore-arm pass to their destina- tion upon the hand. In the subject, the posterior annularPOSTERIOR REGION OF THE FORE-ARM. 108 ligament forms for them a number of distinct sheaths. Their relative position from radius to ulna must be atten- tively studied. Into the base of the styloid process of the radius is inserted the tendon of the supinator longus. Immediately in front of the styloid process, is a groove which lodges the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii; immediately behind it another, broad and shallow, for the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, which are crossed obliquely by a superficial sheath in the annular ligament for the extensor secundi internodii. Farther inwards is a small groove for the tendon of the extensor indicis, and a large one for the extensor communis. Upon the ulna is a groove for the extensor minimi digiti and extensor carpi ulnaris. They may be thus arranged in a tabular form:— {Extensor ossis metacarpi, primi internodii. Styloid process, the insertion of the tendon of the supinator longus. {Extensor secundi internodii, carpi radialis longior, • carpi radialis brevior. Extensor indicis. {Extensor communis digitorum, minimi digiti, ■ carpi ulnaris. Actions. — The anconeus is associated in its action with the triceps extensor cubiti: it assists in extending the fore-arm upon the arm. The supinator longus and brevis effect the supination of the fore-arm, and antagonize the two pronators. The extensores carpi radialis, longior, and brevior, and ulnaris extend the wrist in opposition to the two flexors of the carpus. The extensor communis digitorum restores the fingers to the straight position, after being flexed by the two flexors, sublimis and pro- fundus. The extensor ossis metacarpi, primi internodii, and secundi internodii pollicis, are the especial extensors of the thumb, and serve to balance the actions of the flexor ossis metacarpi, flexor brevis, and flexor longus pollicis. The extensor indicis gives-the character of ex- tension to the index finger, and is hence named indicator,109 PALMAR REGION. — MUSCLES. and the extensor1 minimi digiti supplies that finger with the power of exercising a distinct extension. Palmar Region. The Muscles of the hand are arranged hi three groups : a radial group belonging to the thumb; an ulnar group to the little finger ; and a palmar group situated in the middle of the palm of the hand. The muscles of the Radial group are the Abductor pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi (opponens), Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. The Abductor pollicis arises from the scaphoid bone and annular ligament. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx. Cut this muscle from its origin, and turn it upwards; you will then see The Flexor ossis metacarpi (misnamed opponens); it arises from the trapezium and annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone. The flexor ossis metacarpi may now be divided from its origin and turned aside, in order to show the next muscle. The Flexor brevis pollicis consists of two portions, be- tween which lies the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The external portion arises from the trapezium and an- nular ligament; the internal portion from the trapezoides and os magnum. They are both inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, having a sesamoid bone in each of their tendons to protect the joint. The Adductor pollicis is a triangular muscle; it arises from the os magnum and metacarpal bone of the middle finger; the fibres converge to its insertion into the base of the first phalanx. Ulnar group. The muscles of the little finger are the Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Ilexor ossis metacarpi (adductor). On removing the integument from the ball of the little finger, a thin layer of muscular fibres is found betweenPALMAR REGION. MUSCLES. 110 the two layers of superficial fascia. This is the Palmaris brevis. Its fibres arise from the palmar fascia, and pass transversely inwards to be inserted into the integument on the inner border of the hand. When the superficial and deep fascia is removed, the Abductor minimi digiti will be seen arising from the pisi- form bone. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti arises from the unci- form bone and annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx. The Flexor ossis metacarpi (adductor, opponens) arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and is in- serted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Middle palmar region.—The muscles in this region are the The Lumbricales, four in number, are accessories to the deep flexor muscles. They arise from the radial side of the tendons of the deep flexor, and are inserted into the aponeurotic expansion of the extensor tendons (Jig. 9. 7.) on the radial side of the fingers. The Palmar interossei, three in number, are placed upon the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. They arise from the base of the metacarpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the base of the first phalanx and aponeu- rotic expansion of the extensor tendon of the same finger. The first (fig. 10. 4.) belongs to the index finger; the se- cond, 6., to the ring finger; and the third, 8., to the little finger. The middle finger being excluded. On turning to the dorsum of the hand, the four dorsal interossei are seen in the four spaces between the meta- carpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles (fig. 9. 5. 5.), and arise by two heads, 6. G., from the adjoining sides of the base of the metacarpal bones. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges, and aponeurosis of the ex- tensor tendons. The first (fig- 10.3.) is inserted into the index finger, and from its use is called abductor indicis; the second and Lumbricales,Ill INTEROSSEI MUSCLES. Fig. 10.* third (Jiff. 9.5. 5., fig. 10. 5.5.) are inserted into the middle finger, compensating its exclusion from the palmar group; the fourth (Jig. 10. 7.) is attached to the ring finger; so that each finger is provided with two interossei, with the exception of the little finger, as may be shown by a table. T j f one dorsal (abductor indicis), fig. 10. 3. J * ** l one palmar, Jig. 10. 4. Middle Jinger, two dorsal, Jig. 10. 5. 5. * Fig. 10. A diagram showing the abductor and adductor mus- cles of the hand, and the attachments and actions of the interossei. The middle finger is made longer than the rest, in order to mark the central axis of the hand, to which the movements of abduction and adduction are referrible. The dotted lines represent the six ab- ductor muscles, and the plain lines the four adductors. No. 1. The abductor pollicis, arising from the scaphoid bone. 2. The adductor pollicis, arising from the whole length of the middle metacarpal bone. 3. The first dorsal interosseous, the abductor of the index finger: all the dorsal interossei arise by two heads, as is seen in the diagram. 4. The first palmar interosseous, the adductor of the index finger. 5. 5. The second and third dorsal interossei muscles, both abductors of the middle finger. 6. The second palmar interosseous, adductor of the ring-finger. 7. The fourth dorsal in- terosseous, abductor of the ring-finger. 8. The third palmar inter- osseous, adductor of the little finger. 9. The abductor of the little finger, arising from the pisiform bone.112 PALMAR MUSCLES. ACTIONS. T-,- jj T one dorsal, fin. 10. 6. Ring finger ( one palmar^. 10. ! Little finger, remaining palmar, fig. 10. 9. The radial artery passes into the palm of the hand between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle and the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch, between the heads of the other dorsal interossei. Actions. — The actions of the muscles of the hand are expressed in their names. Those of the radial group be- long to the thumb, and provide for three of its movements, abduction, adduction, and fiexion. The ulnar group, in like manner, are subservient to the same motions of the little finger, and the interossei are abductors and adductors of the several fingers. The lumbricales are accessory in their actions to the deep flexors : they were called by the earlier anatomists, fiducinae, i. e. fiddlers’ muscles from an idea that they might effect the fractional movements by which the performer is enabled to produce the various notes on that instrument. In relation to the axis of the hand (fig. 10.), the four dorsal interossei are abductors, and the three palmar, ad- ductors. It will therefore be seen that each finger is pro- vided with its proper adductor and abductor, two flexors and (with the exception of the middle and ring fingers) two extensors. The thumb has moreover a flexor and extensor of the metacarpal bone; and the little finger a flexor of the metacarpal bone without an extensor.113 CHAPTER III. THORAX. The Thorax is the conical cavity situated at the upper part of the trunk which contains the chief organs of respiration and circulation. Dissection. — Its dissection consists in dividing the ribs on each side from the second to the fifth, and removing the anterior wall of the chest by separating its muscular connections, and sawing across the sternum. The Boundaries of the chest are the ribs, intercostal muscles, vertebral column, and sternum, which form its cir- cumference. The first rib, and thoracic fascia above, and the diaphragm below. It is much deeper on the posterior than on the anterior wall, in consequence of the obliquity of the diaphragm. The Muscles of the chest are the intercostals and trian- gularis sterni. The intercostals consist of muscular and tendinous fibres, which are directed obliquely between the ribs. They are disposed in two planes, the external and in- ternal, and cross each other in the direction of their fibres. The jExternal intercostals, eleven on each side, com- mence posteriorly at the vertebral column, and advance forwards to within a few inches of the sternum, becoming gradually thin and aponeurotic. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, pursuing the same line with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The Internal intercostals, eleven on each side, com- mence anteriorly at the sternum, and extend backwards to within a short distance of the vertebral column. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and backwards, and correspond in direction with those of the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen. Ihe intercostal vessels and nerves pursue their course between the two planes of muscles.THORACIC FASCIA. 114) The Triangularis sferni, situated upon the inner wall of the chest, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the side of the sternum and sternal extremities of the costal car- tilages, and is inserted by fleshy digitations into the carti- lages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and often into that of the second. Actions. — The intercostal muscles raise the ribs when they act from above, and depress them when they take their fixed point from below. They are, therefore, both inspiratory and expiratory muscles. The triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages. The Thoracic fascia * is a dense layer of cellulo-fibrous membrane stretched horizontally across the superior open- ing of the thorax. It is firmly attached to the concave margin of the first rib, and to the inner surface of the sternum. In front it leaves an opening for the connection of the cervical with the thoracic portion of the thymus gland; and behind it forms an arch across the vertebral column, to give passage to the oesophagus. At the point where the great vessels and trachea pass through the thoracic fascia it divides into an ascending and descending layer. The ascending layer is attached to the trachea, and becomes continuous with the sheath of the carotid vessels and with the deep cervical fascia; and the descending layer descends upon the trachea to its bifurcation, surrounds the large vessels arising from the arch of the aorta and the upper part of the arch itself, and is continuous with the fibrous layer of the pericar- dium. It is connected also with the venae innominatae and superior cava, and is attached to the cellular capsule of the thymus gland. “ The thoracic fascia,” writes Sir Astley Cooper, “ per- forms three important offices : — 1st. It forms the upper boundary of the chest, as the diaphragm does the lower. 2d. It steadily preserves the relative situation of the parts which enter and quit the thoracic opening. 3d. It attaches and supports the heart in its situation, through the medium of its connection with the aorta and large vessels which are placed at its curvature.” * For an excellent description of this fascia, see Sir Astley Cooper’s work on the “ Anatomy of the Thymus Gland.”115 LUNGS. Vessels and Nerves. The Arteries of the parietes of the chest are the aortic intercostals; superior intercostals, from the subclavian; anterior intercostals, from the internal mammary; and the thoracic branches from the axillary. The Nerves are the intercostal and thoracic branches. Viscera of the Thorax. The contents of the chest are the lungs and heart, with their investing membranes, and the great vessels. The Lungs occupy the sides of the chest. In the healthy state they are of a pinkish grey colour mottled with black. The Right lung (fig. 11. l.) is larger than the left, in consequence of the inclination of the heart to the left side; it is also shorter, from the encroachment of the liver upon the right side, which presses the diaphragm upwards considerably above the level of the left. The right lung has three lobes, of which the middle is the smallest, and is placed anteriorly. The left lung has only two. Each lung is retained in its place by its root {fig. 11.3.3.), which is formed by the pulmonary artery and veins and bronchial tubes, together with the bronchial vessels and pulmonary plexuses of nerves. The large vessels of the root of the lung are arranged in the same order from before, backwards, on both sides, viz, — Pulmonary veins, Pulmonary artery, Bronchus. Prom above, downwards, on the right side, this order is exactly reversed. On the left side the bronchus has to stoop beneath the arch of the aorta, which alters its position to the vessels. They are thus disposed on the two sides : — Right. Bronchus, Artery, Veins. Left. Artery, Bronchus, Veins. Structure. — The lungs are composed of the ramifi- cations of the bronchial tubes, which terminate in bron-116 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. chial cells (air cells), of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and veins, bronchial artery and veins, lymphatics and nerves. The whole of these structures being held together by cellular tissue, which forms their parenchyma. Bronchial tubes. — The fibro-cartilaginous rings which are observed in the trachea become incomplete and irre- gular in the bronchi, and in the bronchial tubes are lost altogether. At the termination of these tubes the fibrous coat ceases, and the cell is formed solely by the lining mucous membrane. The ramification of the bronchial tubes is effected by a binary subdivision. Vessels and Nerves. — The nutrition of the lungs is per- formed by the bronchial arteries. The lymphatics ter- minate at their roots in the bronchial glands. These glands are very numerous at the bifurcation of the trachea, and around the bronchi. In early life they resemble lymphatic glands in other situations; but in the adult, and in old age, they are quite black, and filled with carbon- aceous matter, and often with calcareous deposits. The Nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. They form two plexuses; 1. anterior pul- monary plexus, situated upon the front of the root of the lungs ; 2. posterior pulmonary plexus, on the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs. The branches from these plexuses follow the course of the bronchial tubes, and are distributed to the bronchial cells. Pleura. — Each lung is enclosed in a serous mem- brane {Jig. 11.5.4.4.), which invests it as far as the root, and is then reflected upon the parietes of the chest. That portion of the membrane which is in relation with the lung is called pleura pulmonalis, and that in contact with the parietes, pleura costalis. The reflected portion, besides forming the internal lining to the ribs and inter- costal muscles, also covers the diaphragm and the thoracic surface of the vessels at the root of the neck. The pleura must be dissected from off the root of the lung to see the vessels of which it is formed and the pulmonary plexuses. Mediastinum. — The approximination of the two reflected pleurae in the middle line of the thorax forms a septum which divides the chest into the two pulmonary cavities. This is the mediastinum. The two pleurae arePLEURA. MEDIASTINUM. 117 not, however, in contact with each other at the middle line in the formation of the mediastinum, but leave a space between them which contains all the viscera of the chest excepting the lungs. The mediastinum is divided into the anterior, middle, and posterior. The Anterior mediastinum (Jig. 11. 6.) is a triangular space, bounded in front by the sternum, and on either side by the pleura. It contains a quantity of loose cellular tissue, in which are found some lymphatic glands and vessels passing upwards from the liver ; the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles, and the internal mammary vessels. * Fig. 11. A diagram representing a transverse section of the chest, and the relative position of the viscera. No. 1. The right lung. 2. The left lung. 3. The root of the lungs, with the order of vessels from before backwards, shown. v. The pulmonary vein. a. The pulmonary artery, b. The bronchus. 4. 4. I he point of reflection of the pleura, from the root of the lung upon the parietes. 5. the cavity of the pleura: that which is in contact with the lung is the pleura pulmonalis, and that with the wall of the chest, pleura costalis. 6. The anterior mediastinum, bounded by the sternum in front, and by the pleura at each side. 7. The heart, in the middle mediastinum. 8. The cavity of the pericardium. 9. 9. I he phrenic nerves lying between the pleura and pericardium,MEDIASTINUM. PERICARDIUM. 118 The Middle mediastinum (Jig. 11. 7.) contains the heart enclosed in its pericardium, 8. 8.'; the ascending aorta; the bifurcation of the trachea; the superior vena cava; and the phrenic nerves, 9. 9. The Posterior mediastinum is bounded behind by the vertebral column, in front by the pericardium, and on each side by the pleura. It contains the descending aorta (fig. 11. lo.); the greater, 11., and lesser azygos veins, and superior intercostal vein ; the thoracic duct, 12.; the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves, 13.; and the great splanchnic nerves. Previously to opening the pericardium, if the sides of the middle mediastinum be examined, the phrenic nerves, 9. 9., will be seen shining through the pleura in front of the roots of the lungs. The left phrenic nerve is a little longer than the right, in consequence of having to curve around the convexity of the heart, and from the greater depth of the diaphragm on the left, than on the right side. The phrenic nerves arise from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, and are distributed to the diaphragm, where they communicate, particularly the left, with fila- ments from the solar plexus. Pericardium, (fig. 11.8) The pericardium is a fibro- serous membrane like the dura mater, and resembles that membrane, also, in deriving its serous layer from the re- flected serous membrane of the viscus which it encloses. It consists, therefore, of two layers, an external fibrous and an internal serous. The fibrous layer is attached, above, to the great vessels at the root of the heart, being con- tinuous with the thoracic fascia, and below to the ten- dinous portion of the diaphragm. The serous membrane invests the heart, and is then reflected upon the inner surface of the fibrous layer. If the pericardium be laid open, the heart is brought into view. The Heart (fig. 11. 7., fig. 12.) is situated obliquely in front of the root of the lungs. 10. The descending aorta. 11. The vena azygos. 12. The thoracic duct. 13. The oesophagus, accom- panied by the two pneumogastric nerves. These parts, from No. 10. to 13., are all within the posterior mediastinum, which is bounded on each side by the pleura, and behind by the vertebral column. 14. 14. The sympathetic nerve at each side.119 HEART. CIRCULATION. in the chest, the base being directed, upwards and back- wards towards the right shoulder ; the apex forwards, and to the left, points to the space between the fifth and sixth ribs, at about two or three inches from the sternum. Its under side is flattened and rests upon the tendinous por- tion of the diaphragm; its upper side is rounded and convex, and formed principally by the right ventricle, and partly by the left. Surmounting the ventricles are the corresponding auricles, whose auricular appendages are directed forwards, and slightly overlap the root of the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery is the large anterior vessel at the root of the heart: it crosses obliquely the commencement of the aorta. The heart consists of two auricles and two ventricles, which are re- spectively named, from their position, right and left. The right is the venous side of the heart; it receives into its auricle the venous blood from every part of the body, by the superior and inferior cavae and coronary vein. From the auricle the blood passes into the ventricle, and from the ventricle through the pulmonary artery, to the capil- laries of the lungs. From these it is returned as arterial blood to the left auricle ; from the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle ; and from the left ventricle is carried through the aorta, to be distributed to every part of the body, and again returned to the heart by the veins. This constitutes the course of the adidt circulation. The heart is best studied in situ. If, however, it be removed from the body, it should be placed in the position indicated in the above description of its situation. A transverse incision should then be made along the ventri- cular margin of the right auricle, from the appendix to its right border, and crossed by a perpendicular incision, carried from the superior to the inferior cava. The coagulated blood should be withdrawn. Sometimes some fine specimens of white fibrine are found with the coagulum, at other times it is yellow and gelatinous. This appearance deceived the older anatomists, who called these substances “ polypus of the heart;” they are also frequently found in the right ventricle, and sometimes in the left cavities. The Right auricle (Jig. 12. l.) is larger than the left, and is divided into a principal cavity, and an appendixRIGHT AURICLE. 120 auriculae, 8. The interior of this auricle presents for ex- amination five openings ; two valves ; two relicts of foetal structure ; and two peculiarities in the proper structure of the auricle. They may be thus arranged:— Superior cava, Inferior cava, Coronary vein, Foramina Thebesii, Auriculo-ventricular opening. Eustachian valve, Coronary valve. Annulus ovalis, _ Fossa ovalis. Structure of f Tuberculum Loweri, the auricle ^ Musculi pectinati. Openings - Valves Helicts of foetal structure The Superior cava {fig. 12. 2.) returns the blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and front part of the auricle. * Fig. 12. The cavities of the heart. No. 1. The right auricle. 2. The entrance of the superior cava. 3. The entrance of the inferior cava. 4. The opening of the coronary vein, half closed by its valve. 5. The Eustachian valve. 6. The fossa ovalis, surrounded by the annulus ovalis. 7. The tuberculum Loweri. 8. The musculi pectinati. 9. The auriculo-ventricular opening. 10. The right ventricle. ] 1. The tricuspid valve, attachedRIGHT AURICLE.— OPENINGS. 121 The Inferior cava, 3., returns the blood from the lower half of the body, and opens into the lower and posterior wall, close to the partition between the auricles (septum auricularum). The direction of these two vessels is such, that a stream forced through the superior cava would be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. In like manner, a stream rushing upwai’ds by the inferior cava would force its current against the septum auricularum ; this is the proper direction of the two currents during foetal life. The Coronary vein {fig. 12. 4.) returns the venous blood from the substance of the heart; it opens into the auricle between the inferior cava and the auriculo-ven- tricular opening, under cover of the coronary valve. The Foramina Thebesii* are minute pore-like openings, by which the venous blood exhales directly from the muscular structure of the heart into the auricle, without entering the venous current. These openings are also by the chordae tendincae to the carneae columnae, 12. 13. The pulmonary artery, guarded at its commencement by three semilunar valves. 14. The right pulmonary artery, passing beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta. 15. The left pulmonary artery, crossing in front of the descending aorta. * The remains of the ductus arteriosus, acting as a ligament between the pulmonary artery and arch of the aorta. The arrows mark the course of the venous blood through the right side of the heart. Entering the auricle by the superior and inferior cavse, it passes through the auriculo-ventri- cular opening into the ventricle, and thence through the pulmonary artery to the lungs. 16. The left auricle. 17. The openings of the four pulmonary veins. 18. The auriculo-ventricular opening. 19. The left ventricle. 20. The mitral valve, attached by its chordae tendineae to two large columnae carncae, which project from the walls of the ventricle. 21. The commencement and course of the ascend- ing aorta behind the pulmonary artery, marked by an arrow. The entrance of the vessel is guarded by three semilunar valves. 22. The arch of the aorta. The comparative thickness of the two ventricles is shown in the diagram. The course of the pure blood through the left side of the heart is marked by arrows. The blood is brought from the lungs by the four pulmonary veins into the left auricle, and passes through the auriculo-ventricular opening into the left ventricle, from whence it is conveyed by the aorta to every part of the body. * Adam Christian Thebesius. His discovery of the openings now known by his name is contained in his “ Dissertatio Medica do Circulo Sanguinis in Corde,” 1708. GRIGHT AURICLE. 122 found in the left auricle, and in the right and left ven- tricles. The Auriculo-ventricular opening {Jig. 12. 9.) is the large opening of communication between the auricle and ventricle. Valves. — The Eustachian* valve {fig- 12.5.) is a part of the apparatus of foetal circulation, and serves to direct the placental blood from the inferior cava, through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. In the adult it is a mere vestige and imperfect, though sometimes it remains of large size. It is formed by a fold of the lining mem- brane of the auricle, and is situated between the opening of the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is generally connected with the Coronary valve, 4., which is a semilunar fold of the lining membrane, stretch- ing across the mouth of the coronary vein, and preventing the reflux of the blood in the vein during the contraction of the auricle. The Annulus ovalis is situated on the septum auricu- larum, opposite the termination of the inferior cava. It is the rounded margin of the septum, 6., which occupies the place of the foramen ovale in the fcetus. The Fossa ovalis {fig. 12. 6.) is an oval depression cor- responding with the foramen ovale in the fcetus. This opening is closed at birth by a thin valvular layer, which is continuous with the left margin of the annulus. The depression or fossa in the right auricle results from this arrangement. There is no fossa ovalis in the left auricle. The Tuberculuni Loweri f {fig- 12. 7.) is the portion of auricle intervening between the openings of the superior and inferior cavae. Being thicker than the walls of the veins, it forms a projection, which was supposed, by Lower, to direct the blood from the superior cava into the auriculo-ventricular opening. The Musculi pectinati, 8., are small muscular columns situated in the appendix auriculae. They are very nume- * Bartholomew Eustachius, born at San Severino, in Naples, was Professor of Medicine in Rome, where he died in 1570. He was one of the founders of modern anatomy, and the first who illustrated his works with good engravings on copper. | Richard Lower, M. D. “ Tractatus de Corde j item de Motu et Colore Sanguinis,” 1669.123 RIGHT VENTRICLE. rous, and are arranged parallel with each other; hence their cognomen, “pectinati,” like the teeth of a comb. The Right ventricle, lo., is triangular and three- sided in its form. Its anterior side is convex, and forms the larger proportion of the front of the heart. The inferior side is flat, and rests upon the diaphragm ; and the inner side corresponds with the partition between the two ventricles, septum ventriculorum. The right ventricle is to be laid open by making an incision parallel with, and a little to the right of, the middle line, from the pulmonary artery in front, to the apex of the heart, and thence by the side of the middle line behind, to the auriculo-ventricular opening. It contains, to be examined, two openings, the auriculo- ventricular and that of the pulmonary artery ; two ap- paratuses of valves, the tricuspid and semilunar ; and a muscular and tendinous apparatus belonging to the tri- cuspid valves. They may be thus arranged : — Auriculo-ventricular opening, Opening of the pulmonary artery, Tricuspid valves, Semilunar valves, Chordae tendineae, Carneae columnae. The Auriculo-ventricular opening (fig. 12. 9.) is sur- rounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining mem- brane of the heart. It is the opening of communication between the right auricle and ventricle. The Opening of the pulmonary artery, 13., is situated close to the septum ventriculorum, on the left side of the right ventricle, and upon the anterior aspect of the heart. The Tricuspid valves (fig. 12. ll.) are three triangular folds of the lining membrane, strengthened by a thin la}rer of tendinous fibres. They are connected around the auriculo-ventricular opening by their base. Their sides and apex are thickened, and give attachment to a number of slender tendinous cords, called chordae ten- dineae. The chordce tendinece are the tendons of the thick muscular columns (columnce carnecef 12. which stand out from the walls of the ventricle, and serve as g 2124 RIGHT VENTRICLE. muscles to the valves. A number of these tendinous cords converge to a single muscular attachment. The tricuspid valves prevent the regurgitation of the blood into the auricle during the contraction of the ventricle, and they are prevented from being themselves driven back by the chordae tendineae and their muscular attach- ments. This connection of the muscular columns of the heart to the valves, has caused their division into active and passive. The Active valves are the tricuspid and mitral; the Passive the mere folds of lining membrane, viz. the semi- lunar, Eustachian, and coronary. Mr. T. W. King, of Guy’s Hospital, has made the tri- cuspid valves a subject of special investigation, and has recorded his observations in a very interesting paper * in the Guy’s Hospital reports. The valves consist, according to Mr. King, of curtains, cords, and columns. The anterior valve, or curtain, is the largest, and is so placed as to prevent the filling of the pulmonary artery during the distension of the ventricle. The right valve, or curtain, is of smaller size, and is situated upon the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The third valve, or “fixed curtain,” is connected by its cords to the septum ventriculorum. The cords (chordae tendineae) of the an- terior curtain are attached, principally, to a long column (columna carnea), which is connected with the “right or thin and yielding wall of the ventricle. From the lower part of this column a transverse muscular band, the “ long moderator band,” is stretched to the septum ven- triculorum or “solid wall” of the ventricle. The right curtain is connected, by means of its cords, partly with the long column, and partly with its own proper column, the second column, which is also attached to the “yielding wall” of the ventricle. A third and smaller column is generally connected with the right curtain. The “fixed curtain ” is named from its attachment to the “ solid wall” of the ventricle, by means of cords only, without fleshy columns. * •• Essay on the Safety Valve Function in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart,” by T. W. King. Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. 2.125 TRICUSPID AND SEMILUNAR VALVES. G 3 From this remarkable arrangement of the valves, it follows, that if the right ventricle be over distended, the thin, or “yielding wall” will give way, and carry with it the columns of the anterior and right valves. The cords connected with these columns will draw down the edges of the valves, and produce an opening between the cur- tains, through which the superabundant blood may escape, and the ventricle be relieved from its over pressure. This beautiful mechanism is therefore adapted, to fulfil the “function of a safety valve'.' The Columnce carnece (fleshy columns) is a name ex- pressive of the appearance of the internal walls of the ventricles, which seem formed of muscular columns in- terlacing in almost every direction. They are divided into three sets, according to the manner of their con- nection. 1. The greater number are attached by the whole of one side, and merely form convexities into the cavity of the ventricle. 2. Others are connected by both extremities, being free in the middle. 3. And a few are attached by one extremity only to the walls of the heart, the other giving insertion to the chordae tendineae. The Semilunar valves (_fig. 12. 13.) are three folds of the lining membrane, situated around the commencement of the pulmonary artery. They are attached by their convexities, and free by the concavities, which are directed upwards in the course of the vessel, so that, during the current of the blood along the artery, they are pressed against the sides of the cylinder, but if any attempt at regurgitation ensue, they are immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. In the centre of the free margin of each of the valves, is a small fibro-cartilaginous tubercle, called corpus Arantii*, which locks in with the two others during the closure of the valves, and secures the triangular space that would otherwise be left by the approximation of three semilunar folds. Between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are three pouches, called the pulmonary sinuses. Similar sinuses are situated beneath the valves at the com- * Julius Caisar Arantius, Professor of Medicine, in Bologna. lie was a disciple of Vesalius, one of the founders of modern anatomy. His treatise “ De Ilumano Fcetu” was published at Home, in 1564.LEFT AURICLE. 126 mencement of the aorta, and are much larger and more capacious than those of the pulmonary artery. The Pulmonary artery commences by a scolloped bor- der, corresponding with the three valves, which are at- tached along its edge. It is connected to the ventricle by fibrous tissue, and by the lining membrane of the heart. The Left auricle {Jig. 12. 16.) is somewhat smaller than the right; of a cuboid form, and situated more pos- teriorly. The appendix auriculce is constricted at its junction with the auricle, and has an arborescent appear- ance. It is directed forwards towards the root of the pulmonary artery, to which the auriculae of both sides appear to converge. The left auricle is to be laid open by a J_ shaped in- cision, the horizontal section being made along the border which is attached to the base of the ventricle. It presents for examination five openings, and the mus- cular structure of the appendix these are : Four pulmonary veins, Auriculo-ventricular opening, Musculi pectinati. The Pulmonary veins {Jig. 12. 17.), two from the right lung, and two from the left, open into the corresponding sides of the auricle. The two left pulmonary veins ter- minate frequently by a common opening. The Auriculo-ventricular opening, 18., is the aperture of communication between the ventricle and auricle. The Musculi pectinati are fewer in number than in the right auricle, and are situated only in the appendix auriculae. Left ventricle The left ventricle is to be opened, by making an incision a little to the left of the septum ventriculorum, and continuing it around the apex of the heart, to the auriculo-ventricular opening behind. The left ventricle {Jig. 12. 19.) is conical, both in ex- ternal figure, and in the form of its internal cavity. It forms the apex of the heart, by projecting beyond the right ventricle, while the latter has the advantage in length towards the base. Its walls are about seven lines in thick- ness, those of the right ventricle being about 2£ lines. It presents for examination in its interior two openings,127 LEFT VENTRICLE. two valves, and the tendinous cords and muscular columns; they may be thus arranged : Auriculo-ventricular opening, Aortic opening, Mitral valves, Semilunar valves, Chordae tendineae, Columnae carneae. The Auriculo-ventricular opening, 18., is a dense fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, but smaller in size than that of the right side. The Mitral valves, 20., are attached around the auriculo- ventricular opening, as are the tricuspid in the right ven- tricle. They are thicker than the tricuspid, and consist of only two segments, of which the larger is placed between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the com- mencement of the aorta, and acts the part of a valve to that foramen, during the filling of the ventricle. The difference of size of the two valves, both being triangular, and the space between them, has given rise to the idea of a “ bishop's mitre” after which they are named. These valves, like the tricuspid, are furnished with an apparatus of tendinous cords, chordce tendinece, which are attached to two very large columnce carnecc. The Columnce carnece admit of the same arrangement into three kinds, as on the right side. Those which are free by one extremity are only two in number, and much larger than those on the opposite side. The Semilunar valves, 21., are placed around the com- mencement of the aorta, like those of the pulmonary artery, and, like them, are attached to the scolloped border, by which the aorta is connected with the ventricle. The tubercle in the centre of each fold is larger than those in the pulmonary valves, and it was these that Arantius par- ticularly described; but the term “ corpora Arantii,” is now applied indiscriminately to both. The fossae between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are much larger than those of the pulmonary artery ; they are called the “ sinus aortici.” Structure of the heart.—The muscular fibres of the heart are divided into proper and common. The G 4-128 STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. proper fibres of the auricles form a thin muscular layer over its surface, their extremities being attached to the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings. The common fibres are wound transversely around both auricles, and serve to bind them together. The proper fibres of the ventricles are oblique, in their di- rection, and are wound spirally round and round, so as to form two irregular conical cylinders, open at both extremities. The common fibres take their origin from the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings, and descend obliquely from the right towards the left, in front, and from the left to the right behind, to the apex of the heart. Here they are reflected inwards, through the opening in the inferior extremity of the cylinder of the proper fibres, and form the inner muscular stratum of the ventricles. They terminate by being inserted, as they arose, into the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings. Thus it is, that the common fibres hold both the auricles and ventricles together, the common point of insertion being the zones of the auriculo-ventricular openings. They form, therefore, the superficial layer of the heart, passing from one ventricle across to the other, and by a peculiar turn upon themselves at the apex are reflected inwards through the inferior openings of the conical cylinders, so as to form the internal or deep layer of the ventricles, enclosing be- tween their two layers the cylinders of the proper fibres. Vessels. — The Arteries of the heart are the right and left coronary. The Left or anterior coronary passes forwards, between the pulmonary artery and left appendix auriculae, and runs along the line of union of the two ventricles to the apex of the heart, where it inosculates with the right coronary. It supplies the left auricle and the adjoining sides of both ventricles. The Right or posterior coronary passes forwards, between the root of the pulmonary artery and the right auricle, and winds along the auriculo-ventricular groove, to the posterior median furrow, where it descends upon the pos- terior aspect of the heart to its apex, and inosculates with the left coronary. It is distributed to the right auricle and to the posterior surface of both ventricles. Both coronary arteries arise from the root of the aorta in the sinus aortici, behind the semilunar valves.129 GREAT VESSELS OF THE HEART. G 5 The Veins accompany the arteries, and empty them- selves by the common coronary vein into the right auricle. The Lymphatics terminate in the glands about the root of the heart. Nerves. — The Nerves of the heart are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed by communicating filaments from the sympathetic and pneumogastric. Great Vessels of the Heart. The Vessels at the root of the heart may be thus ar- ranged : — Superior and inferior cava, Pulmonary artery, Four pulmonary veins, Aorta. As all these vessels bear a certain relation to the aorta, we shall therefore commence by describing that trunk. The Aorta {fig. 12. 21, 22.) arises from the left ven- tricle, at the middle of the root of the heart. It ascends at first to the right, then curves backwards and to the left, and descends on the left side of the vertebral column to the fourth lumbar vertebra. Hence it is divided into the ascending, arch, and descending aorta. Relations. — The Ascending aorta has in relation with it, in front, the trunk of the pulmonary artery, thoracic fascia, and pericardium ; behind, the right pul- monary veins and artery ; to the right side, the right auricle and superior cava ; and to the left, the left auricle and trunk of the pulmonary artery. Plan of the relations of the ascending Aorta. In Front. Pericardium. Thoracic fascia. Pulmonary artery. Right Side. Superior cava. Right auricle. Behind. Right pulmonary artery. Right pulmonary veins. Left Side. Pulmonary artery. Left auricle.130 ARCH OF THE AORTA. Arch. — The upper border of the arch is parallel with the second dorsal vertebra, and it terminates opposite the lower border of the third. The anterior surface of the arch is crossed by the left pneumogastric nerve, and the cardiac branches of that nerve, and of the sympathetic. The posterior surface of the arch is in relation with the bifurcation of the trachea and great cardiac plexus, the cardiac and left recurrent nerves, and the thoracic duct. The superior border gives off the three great arteries, viz. the innominata, left carotid, and left subclavian. The inferior border or concavity of the arch is in rela- tion with the remains of the ductus arteriosus, the cardiac ganglion and left x'ecurrent nerve, and has passing beneath it the right pulmonary artery and left bronchus. Plan of the relations of the arch of the Aorta. Above. Arterla innominata. Left carotid. Left subclavian. In Front. Behind. Bifurcation of the trachea. Great cardiac plexus. Cardiac nerves. Left recurrent nerve. Thoracic duct. Cardiac ganglion. Remains of ductus arteriosus. Left recurrent nerve. Right pulmonary artery. Left bronchus. The Descending aorta is situated in the posterior me- diastinum, and rests upon the vertebral column. Its relations will be described with that space. The Pulmonary artery {fig. 12. 13.) arises from the upper part of the left side of the right ventricle, in front of the origin of the aorta. It ci'osses the root of the aorta somewhat obliquely to the under surface of the arch, to which it is connected by a ligamentous cord {fig. 12.*), the remains of the ductus arteriosus. It Left pneumogastric nerve. Arch Cardiac nerves. of the Aorta.PULMONARY ARTERY. VEINS. 131 then divides into two branches, the right and left pul- monary arteries. The Right pulmonary artery, 14., passes beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta, to the root of the right lung, where it divides into branches which are dis- tributed to its three lobes. The Left pulmonary artery, 15., rather larger than the right, passes in front of the descending aorta to the root of the left lung. The Superior vena cava (fig. 12. 2. fig. 13. l.) is a short trunk situated to the right, and rather in front of the ascending aorta. It is formed by the junction of the two venae innominatae. The Vence innominatce {fig. 13. 2, 3.) are formed by the junction of the internal jugular, 4., and subclavian veins, 5., at each side. The right vena innominata is short, and descends almost vertically to the superior cava. The left is long, and crosses obliquely the branches arising from the arch of the aorta. The Inferior cava (fig. 12. 3.) passes through a quadri- lateral opening in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, and immediately enters the right auricle, so that its extent within the chest is not more than half or three quarters of an inch. Pulmonary veins. — The Right pulmonary veins, anterior to the other vessels in the root of the lung, pass behind the right auricle to open into the right side of the left auricle. The Left pulmonary veins, also anterior to the other vessels in the root of the lung, pass in front of the de- scending aorta to open into the left side of the corre- sponding auricle. Trachea and Bronchi Behind the arch of the aorta, the trachea divides into the two bronchi. The right bronchus passes off at right angles, and enters the upper part of the right lung. It crosses behind the superior cava, and has the vena azygos curving around it to terminate in that vein. The left bronchus is oblique in its direction, having to stoop beneath the arch of the aorta to reach the root of the lung. It enters the lung, therefore, at the middle, and not at the upper part, as g 6POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. 132 does the right. Hence the difference of relation of the two bronchi in the roots of the lungs. Posterior mediastinum. — If the lungs be removed near to their roots, or thrown to one side, the posterior mediastinum may be dissected and examined. The contents of the posterior mediastinum, are the Descending aorta, Vena azygos major, Vena azygos minor, Superior intercostal vein. Thoracic duct, (Esophagus, Pneumogastric nerves, Great splanchnic nerves.. The Descending or Thoracic aorta (fig. 11. 10.) is situ- ated to the left side of the vertebral column, but approaches the middle line as it descends, and at the aortic opening of the diaphragm is altogether in front of the column. After entering the abdomen, it again falls back to the left side. Relations. — It is in relation, behind, with the verte- bral column and lesser vena azygos; in front, with the oesophagus and right pneumogastric nerve ; to the left side, with the pleura; and to the right, with the thoracic duct. Plan of the relations of the descending thoracic Aorta. In Front. (Esophagus. Right pneumogastric nerve. Right Side. Thoracic duct. Behind. Lesser vena azygos. Vertebra] column. Left Side. Pleura. Branches. — Its branches are pericardiac, bronchial, oesophageal, and intercostal arteries. The Pericardiac are a few twigs to the posterior part of the pericardium.133 THORACIC AORTA. — BRANCHES. The Bronchial, two superior, and two inferior, arise from the upper part of the artery, and pass to the roots of the lungs, to be distributed with the bronchial tubes. They are the nutritious arteries of the lungs. The (Esophageal are several small branches given off from the front part of the aorta to the oesophagus. The Intercostal, or posterior intercostal branches are ten in number on each side, the two superior spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal artery, a branch of the subclavian. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta. They cross the vertebral column behind the thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces, the left passing beneath the lesser vena azygos and sympathetic. In the intercostal spaces, or rather upon the external intercostal muscles, each artery gives off a dorsal branch for the supply of the muscles of the back. It then comes into relation with its vein and nerve, the former being above, and the latter below, and divides into two branches, which run along the borders of the contiguous ribs between the two planes of intercostal muscles, and anastomose with the anterior intercostal arteries, branches of the internal mammary. The branch corresponding with the lower border of the rib is the larger of the two. They are protected from pressure during the action of the intercostal muscles, by little tendinous arches thrown across and attached by each ex- tremity to the bone. The venae azygos and superior intercostal vein, form a kind of system of themselves for returning the venous blood from the parietes of the chest and vertebral column, in the vacant interval left by the two cavae, as they ad- vance forwards to be connected with the heart. They likewise establish a communication between those two trunks. The Vena azygos major {fig. 13. 3. fig. 11. 11.) arises in the lumbar region by a communication with the lumbar veins ; sometimes it is joined by a branch directly from the inferior vena cava, or by one from the renal vein. It passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and ascends upon the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal vertebra, where it arches forwards overVENA AZYGOS. —THORACIC DUCT. 134 the right bronchus, and terminates in the superior cava. It receives all the intercostal veins of the right side, to- gether with the bronchial and vena azj'gos minor. The Vena azygos minor (fig. 13. 9.) commences in the lumbar region, on the left side, by a communication with the lumbar or renal veins. It passes beneath the border of the dia- phragm, and ascending upon the left side of the vertebral column, crosses the fifth or sixth dorsal vertebra to open into the vena azygos major, It receives the six or seven lower intercostal veins of the left side. The azygos veins are said to have no valves. The Superior intercostal vein {Jig. 13. 7.) is the trunk formed by the union of the five or six upper intercostal veins of the left side. It communicates be- low with the vena azygos minor, and ascends to terminate in the left vena innominata. The Thoracic duct {Jig. 11. 12.) arises in the abdomen from the receptaculum chyli, which is situated on the second lum- bar vertebra. It enters the tho- rax through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, behind and between the aorta and vena azygos. Then ascends per- * Fig. 13. The veins of the trunk. No. 1. The superior vena cava. 2. The right vena innominata. 3. The left vena innominata. 4. The internal jugular vein of the left side. 5. The subclavian vein of the left side. 6. The external jugular vein. 7. The superior intercostal vein. 8. The great vena azygos, communicating inferiorly with one of the lumbar veins. 9. The lesser vena azygos, communicating inferiorly with a lumbar and with the left renal vein. 10. The inferior vena cava. 11. 11. TheOESOPHAGUS. PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVES. 135 pendicularly between the aorta and vena azygos, passes behind the arch of the aorta, and along the course of the left subclavian artery into the neck, where it makes a sudden turn downwards, and terminates at the junction of the left jugular with the left subclavian vein. In the thorax it often divides into two or three branches, which afterwards reunite. It is provided with valves like the rest of the lymphatic system. The thoracic duct is the common lymphatic trunk of the whole of the lower half of the body, the left side of the thorax, the left upper extremity, and the left side of the head and neck. The lymphatic vessels of the right side of the thorax, right upper extremity, and right side of the head and neck, unite to form the ductus lymphaticus dexter, which opens into the junction of the right jugular and subclavian veins. The (Esophagus (Jig. 11. 13.) commences on a level with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, opposite to the fifth cervical vertebra. It descends upon the verte- bral column, a little to the left of the trachea, and passing down behind the arch of the aorta, becomes placed im- mediately in front of the descending aorta upon which it lies. Near to the lower part of the chest it advances forwards, and passes through a muscular opening in the diaphragm to terminate in the stomach. It is accom- panied by the pneumogastric nerves. Pxeumogastric nerves. — The Right pneumogastric nerve, after its entrance into the chest, between the right subclavian artery and vein, descends obliquely behind the superior cava and behind the root of the lungs, to the posterior surface of the oesophagus, along which it runs to the stomach. The Left pneumogastric nerve runs parallel with the left subclavian artery at its entrance into the chest, crosses the arch of the aorta, then passes behind the root of the two common iliac veins. 12. The right external iliac. 13. The internal iliac vein. 14. The vena sacra media. 15. 15. The lumbar veins. . 16. The right spermatic vein. 17. The left renal vein, into which is seen opening from below the left spermatic vein, 18. The right renal vein. 19. The hepatic veins.PULMONARY PLEXUSES. 136 left lung to the anterior surface of the oesophagus, along which it proceeds to the stomach. Branches. — At their entrance into the chest they both give off cardiac branches {Jig. 19. 14.) to the cardiac plexuses. The left {Jig. 17. 14.), while crossing the arch of the aorta, gives off the left recurrent nerve, which winds around the arch close to the cord of the ductus arteriosus, and ascends by the side of the trachea to be distributed to the larynx. At the roots of the lungs some branches are distributed upon their anterior aspect, forming the anterior pulmonary plexuses, and a larger number behind, constituting by their communications the posterior pulmonary plexuses. {Fig. 19, p.) The pulmonary plexuses, particularly the anterior, are augmented by branches from the great car- diac plexus. The branches of these plexuses are dis- tributed with the bronchial tubes to the bronchial cells. On the oesophagus the nerves divide into a number of branches, which communicate with each other and con- stitute the oesophageal plexus. {Fig. 19. 17.) Near to the pylorus they collect into two principal trunks, which form a kind of nervous collar around the lower end of the oesophagus, from which branches are distributed to the stomach. The left pneumogastric supplies chiefly the an- terior surface of the stomach. The right supplies the posterior surface, and terminates in the solar plexus. The great splanchnic nerves are derived from the dorsal portion of the sympathetic, with which they are described. All these parts contained in the posterior mediastinum are held together by a loose cellular tissue, in which are contained a number of lymphatic glands. The Sympathetic nerve {Jig. 11.14.Jig. 50.) in the chest consists of a chain of ganglia, extending along each side of the vertebral column. The ganglia, twelve in number, rest upon the heads of the ribs, and are covered by the pleura costalis. Each ganglion, considered as a centre, gives off four sets of branches—1. to join the ganglion above; 2. to join the ganglion below; 3. to each of the intercostal nerves; 4. to the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The latter consist of branches to the cardiac and pul-137 CARDIAC GANGLION AND PLEXUSES. monary plexuses and posterior mediastinum, and of two named branches, the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves. The Greater splanchnic nerve (Jig. 50. 12.) is formed by the union of filaments from the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ganglia. It passes inwards to the pos- terior mediastinum, resting upon the side of the vertebral column, and pierces the crus of the diaphragm to join the semilunar ganglion in the abdomen. The Lesser splanchnic nerve, 14., is formed by the union of filaments from the tenth and eleventh ganglia. It pierces the diaphragm and joins the renal plexus. The Intercostal nerves, twelve in number, issue from the intervertebral foramina, and divide into two branches: — 1. A posterior branch which passes backwards between the ribs, and is distributed to the muscles of the back; 2. An anterior branch (intercostal) which follows the course of the intercostal artery between the two inter- costal muscles. It gives off numerous branches in its course, and near to the sternum pierces the external intercostal muscle, to be distributed to the pectoralis major and integument. At the great convexity of the chest it gives off a cutaneous branch, which pierces the muscles, and is distributed to the integument on the side * of the trunk. Cardiac ganglion and plexuses.— Beneath the arch of the aorta to the right of the ligament of the ductus arte- riosus is a large sympathetic ganglion, the cardiac gan- glion. It receives the superior cardiac nerve (superficialis cordis) from each side, and branches from the pneumo- gastric and recurrent nerves, and gives off a number of filaments, which form a plexus by their communications— the anterior cardiac plexus. The branches of this plexus pass downwards on the right side of the pulmonary artery to the left coronary artery, where they receive the name of anterior coronary plexus, and are distributed to the anterior aspect of the heart. The inferior and middle cardiac nerves converge to the great cardiac plexus, which is situated upon the bifurcation of the trachea, behind the arch of the aorta, and above the right pulmonary artery. From this plexus proceed two sets of branches— 1. Anterior, which pass138 RELATIONS OF THORACIC VESSELS. forwards between the aorta and pulmonary artery, and are distributed principally to the right auricle, com- municating with the anterior coronary plexus; 2. Pos- terior, more numerous, which follow the course of the right coronary artery, and form the posterior coronary plexus. The branches of this plexus are distributed to the left auricle and posterior surface of the ventricle. Besides those to the heart, numerous branches are sent from the cardiac plexuses to the pulmonary plexuses, particularly to the anterior. When these nerves have been examined, the student should apply himself to observe the relations of the large vessels and tubes at the upper part of the thorax. He will find the left vena innominata the most superficial, lying obliquely across the three branches of the arch of the aorta, as it descends to form the superior cava with the vena innominata of the right side. It receives the superior intercostal and inferior thyroid veins. The vessels at the upper part of the thorax may be thus arranged in their order from before backwards: — Left vena innominata, Right vena innominata, Arteria innominata, Left carotid, Trachea, (Esophagus, Left subclavian artery, Thoracic duct. Having completed the study of the thorax, the student should now continue his dissection of the upper ex- tremity, page 75.139 CHAPTER IV. REGION OF THE BACK. It is customary in most dissecting-rooms to turn the body upon its face after the lapse of a few days, that the student may have an opportunity of studying the muscles of the back and the posterior parts of the limbs. The student must, therefore, endeavour to accommodate his dissection to these rules. The region of the hack is, from its extent, common to the neck, the upper extremities, and the abdomen. The muscles of which it is composed are numerous, and may be arranged into six layers. First Layer. Transversalis colli, Trapezius, Trachelo-mastoideus, Latissimus dorsi. Complexus. Second Layer. Levator anguli scapulae, Fifth Layer. (Dorsal Group.) Rhomboideus minor, Rhomboideus major. Semi spinalis dorsi, Semi spinalis colli, Third Layer. Serratus posticus superior. Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor, Rectus lateralis, (Cervical Group.) Serratus posticus inferior, Splenius capitis, Splenius colli. Obliquus inferior, Obliquus superior. Fourth Layer. (Dorsal Group.) Sixth Layer. Sacro lumbalis, Longissimus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi. Multifidus spinae, Levatores costarum, Supra-spinales, Inter-spinales, Inter-transversales. (Cervical Group.) Cervicalis ascendens,140 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. THIRD LAYER. The two first layers belong to the shoulder and arm : their origins and insertions, and the mode of dissecting them, have been described at pages 81. and 83. Third Layer. The Third layer consists of muscles which arise from the spinous processes of the vertebral column, and pass outwards. It is brought into view by dividing the levator anguli scapulae near its insertion, and reflecting the two rhomboid muscles upwards from their insertion into the scapula, and removing them altogether. The Serratus posticus superior arises from the spinous processes of the two last cervical and two upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by four serrations into the pos- terior surface of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. The Serratus posticus inferior arises from the spjnous processes of the two last dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted by four serrations into the four lower ribs. These two muscles are connected by a thin tendinous fascia, called the intervertebral aponeurosis. The serratus posticus superior must be removed from its origin and turned outwards, to bring into view the whole extent of the splenius muscle. The Splenius muscle is single at its origin, but divides soon after into two portions, which are destined to dis- tinct insertions. It arises from the spinous processes of ten vertebrae, the four lower cervical and six upper dorsal, and divides as it ascends the neck into the sple- nius capitis and colli. The Splenius capitis is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone between the two curved lines, and into the mastoid process. The Splenius colli is inserted into the transverse pro- cesses of the four upper cervical vertebra. The two serrati and two splenii must be removed by cutting them away from their origins and insertions to bring the fourtli layer into view. Fourth Layer. Three of these muscles, viz. sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and spinalis dorsi, are associated under the name of erector spinse. They occupy the lumbar and dorsal141 FOURTH LAYER. portion of the back. The remaining four are situated in the cervical region. The Sacro-lumbalis and Longissimus dor si arise by a common origin from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, from the posterior surface of the sacrum, and from the lumbar vertebrae : opposite the last rib a line of separation begins to be marked between the two muscles. The Sacro-lumbalis is inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six lower ribs. On turning the muscle a little outwards, a number of tendinous slips will be seen taking their origin from the ribs, and terminating in a muscular fasciculus, by which the sacro-lumbalis is pro- longed to the upper part of the thorax. This is the micsculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem: it arises from the angles of the lower ribs, and is inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six upper ribs. The Longissimus dorsi is inserted into all the ribs, between their tubercles and angles. The Spinalis dorsi arises from the spinous processes of the two upper lumbar and two lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes of all the upper dorsal vertebrae, the two muscles form an ellipse, which appears to enclose the spinous processes of all the dorsal vertebrae. Cervical group. — The Cervicalis ascendens appears to be the continuation of the sacro-lumbalis upwards into the neck. It arises from the angles of the four upper ribs, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. The Transversalis colli would appear to be the con- tinuation upwards into the neck of the longissimus dorsi, it arises from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the four middle cervical vertebrae. The Trachelo-mastoid is likewise a continuation up- wards from the longissimus dorsi. It is a very slender and delicate muscle, arising from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal, and four lower cervical vertebrae, and inserted into the mastoid process. The Complexus is a large muscle, and with the splenius forms the great bulk of the back of the neck. It crosses the direction of the splenius, arising from the transverse142 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. FIFTH LAYER. processes of the four upper dorsal, and four lower cervical vertebrae, and inserted into the rough surface on the occipital bone, between the two curved lines near to the spinous process. A portion of the complexus muscle is named Biventer cervicis, from consisting of a central tendon, with two fleshy bellies. The muscles of this layer are best removed by dividing them transversely through the middle, and turning one extremity upwards, the other downwards. In this way the whole of the muscles of the fourth layer may be got rid of, and the remaining muscles of the spine brought into a state to be examined. Fifth Layer. The Semi-spinales muscles are connected with the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, hence their name semi-spinalis. The Semi-spinalis dor si arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the six lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal, and two lower cervical vertebrae. The Semi-spinalis colli arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the four upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes of four upper cervical vertebrae, commencing with the axis. Occipital group. — This group of small muscles, is intended for the varied movements of the cranium on the atlas, and the atlas on the axis. They are extremely pretty muscles in appearance. The Rectus posticus major arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the inferior curved line, on the occipital bone. The Rectus posticus minor arises from the spinous tu- bercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface on the occipital bone, beneath the inferior curved line. The Rectus lateralis is interposed between the transverse process of the atlas and the occipital bone ; it arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, external to the con- dyle. The Obliquus inferior arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the extremity of the trans- verse process of the atlas.REMARKS. 143 SIXTH LAYER. The Obliquus superior arises from the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, between the curved lines. Sixth Layer. The semi-spinales muscles must both be removed to obtain a good view of the multifidus spinae which lies beneath them, and fills up the concavity between the spinous and transverse processes, the whole length of the vertebral column. The Multifidus sphice consists of a great number of fleshy fasciculi, extending between the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. Each fasciculus arises from a transverse process, and is inserted into the spinous process of the first or second vertebra above. The Levatores costarum arise from the transverse pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebrae, and are inserted into the rough surface between the tubercle and angle of the rib below them. The Supra-spinales are little fleshy bands lying on the spinous processes of the vertebrae in the cervical region. The Inter-spinales are a succession of little pairs of muscles, lying between the bifid tubercles of the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae. The Liter-transversales are also arranged in pairs, and pass between the bifid tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae. They are sometimes found in the lumbar region. With regard to the origin and insertion of the muscles of the back, the student should be informed that no regu- larity attends their attachments. At the best a know- ledge of their exact connections, even were it possible to retain, would be but a barren information, if not absolutely injurious, as tending to exclude more valuable learning. We have therefore endeavoured to arrange a plan, by which they may be more easily recollected, by placing them in a tabular form, that the student may see, at a single glance, the origin and insertion of each, and com- pare the natural grouping and similarity of attachments of the various layers. In this manner also their actions will be better comprehended, and learnt with greater facility.144 MUSCLES OF THE BACK ORIGIN. Layers. Spinous Processes. Transverse Processes. Ribs. Additional. 1st Layer. Trapezius - - ^ last cervical, 12 dorsal i • ' 1 1 occipital bone, and 7 lig. nuch® - - j Latissimus dorsi - £ 6 lower dorsal, 5 lumbar - - ] * * 3 lower - sacrum and ilium - 2d Layer. Levator anguli 7 scapulas - - 4 upper cervical - . Rhomboideus min. ^ lig. nuch®, 2 lower cervical 1 1 - . Rhomboideus major 4 upper dorsal - - - 3d Layer. Serratus posticus 7 superior - -j 2 lower cervical, 2 upper dorsal j - - - - Serratus posticus \ 2 lower dorsal, l inferior - -j 2 upper lumbar 5 - Splenius capitis - ? 4 lower cervical, l - - - Splenius colli -J 6 upper dorsal s . - . 4tli Layer. Sacro-lumbalis - _ sacrum and ilium - accessorius ad 7 angles of 7 6acro-lumbalem j l 6 lower 5 Longissimus dorsi - - - - lumbar vertebra Spinalis dorsi - £ 2 lower dorsal, 2 upper lumbar 1 1 - . Cervicalis ascendens - 1 1 angles of 4 upper 1 1 Transversalis colli - _ 4 upper dorsal - - Trachelo-mastoideus - * { 4 upper dorsal, 4 lower cervical j- - . Complexus - • ■ { 4 upper dorsal, 4 lower cervical ]- • - 5th Layer. Semi-spinalis dorsi - - 6 lower dorsal - - Semi-spinalis colli - - 4 upper dorsal - - . Rectus posticus maj. axis - - - Rectus posticus min. Rectus lateralis atlas atlas - _ - Obliquus inferior axis - - - Obliquus superior - - axis - * - - - 6th Layer. from sacrum to 3d cervical Multifidus spin® ■ • f 1 1 - Levatores costarum - all the dorsal - - Supra-spinales - cervical - - - - Inter-spinales - cervical . - " Inter-transversales - [cervical -TABLE OF ORIGIN AND INSERTION, 14-5 INSERTION. Spinous Processes Transverse Processes. Ribs. Additional. - - - - -{ • - -f clavicle and spine of the scapula, posterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. - • 1 1 ■ 1 1 1 1 • angle and base of the scapula. base of the scapula, base of the scapula. - - 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th. 4 upper cervical. 4 lower ribs. ■ • -l occipital bone between the curved lines. 8 upper dorsal. 1 1 1 1 1 1 angles of 6 lower, angles of 6 upper. all the ribs between the tubercles and angles. - 4 lower cervical. 4 middle cervical. 1 ■ > 1 ■ 1 mastoid process. occipital bone between the curved lines. f 4 upper dorsal, l 2 lower cervical, f 4 upper cervical, / except atlas. atlas. m • _ - occipital bone, occipital bone, occipital bone. occipital bone. f from last lumbar l to axis. cervical. cervical. ' ‘ ' 1 - - { cervical. all the ribs between the tubercles and angles. IIMUSCLES OF THE BACK. 146 In examining this table, the student will observe the constant recurrence of the number four in the origin and insertion of the muscles. Sometimes the four occurs at the top or bottom of a region of the spine, and frequently includes a part of two regions, and takes two from each, as in the case of the serrati. Again, he will perceive that the muscles of the upper half of the table take their origin from spinous processes, and pass outwards to trans- verse, whereas the lower half arises mostly from transverse processes. To the student, then, we commit these re- flections, and leave it to the peculiar tenour of his own mind to make such arrangements as will be best retained by his memoiy. Actions. — The first two layers are muscles of the shoulder and arm, to move which their efforts are di- rected. Their actions have been described, with those of the shoulder, at page 85. The two serrati are respiratory muscles acting in op- position to each other — the serratus posticus superior, drawing the ribs upwards, and thereby expanding the chest; and the inferior, drawing the lower ribs downwards and diminishing the cavity of the chest. The former is an inspiratory, the latter an expiratory muscle. The Splenii muscles draw the head backwards and to one side, so as to direct the face towards the shoulder. Both muscles, acting together, will draw the head directly backwards. They are the natural antagonists of the sterno-mastoid muscles. The Sacro lumbalis, with its accessory muscle, the longissimus clor si and spinalis dor si, are known by the general term of erector spince, which sufficiently expresses their actions. They keep the spine supported in the vertical position by their broad origin from below, and through their insertion by distinct tendons into the ribs and spinous processes. Being made up of a number of distinct fasciculi, which alternate in their actions, the spine is kept erect without fatigue, even when they have to counterbalance a corpulent abdominal development. The continuations upwards of these muscles into the neck preserve the steadiness and uprightness of that region. When the muscles of one side act alone, the neck is rotated upon its axis. The complcxus, by being147 ACTIONS. attached to the occipital bone, draws the head backwards, and counteracts the muscles on the anterior part of the neck. It assists also in the rotation of the head The Semi-spinales and multifidus spince muscles act directly on the vertebrae, and contribute to the general action of supporting the vertebral column erect. The four little muscles situated between the occiput and the two first' vertebrae, effect the various movements between these bones ; the recti producing the antero- posterior actions, and the obliqui the rotatory motions of the atlas on the axis. The actions of the remaining muscles of the spine, the supra and interspinales and interlransversales, are ex- pressed in their names. They approximate their attach- ments, and assist the more powerful muscles in preserving the erect position of the body. „ The Levatores costarum raise the posterior parts of the ribs, and are probably more serviceable in preserving the articulation of the rib from dislocation, than in raising them in inspiration.148 , 7 - CHAPTER V. , " HEAD AND NECK. The Head may be considered as an expansion of the superior part of the vertebral column, for the reception of the brain and the principal organs of sense. The Neck is the medium of communication and con- nection between the head and the rest of the body: — communication, by means of the trachea and oesophagus, with the internal organs ; connection, by means of the muscles and vertebral column, with the superficies and osseous fabric of the trunk. The head may be divided into the cranium and face, the former being the osseous recipient of the brain, and the latter the apparatus for the development and pro- tection of the principal organs of sense. The exterior of the cranium presents but little for the study of the anatomist : the face is more varied, compre- hending — 1. The orbits for the organs of vision ; 2. The nose or external organ of smell; 3. The mouth, containing the organ of taste ; 4. The jaws or apparatus of mastica- tion ; and, immediately behind the jaws on the sides of the base of the skull, 5. the external organ of hearing. We shall commence the dissection of the head and neck, by devoting one side to the learning of the mus- cles, reserving the other for the study of the vessels and nerves. The Muscles are associated into certain natural groups, which correspond with the divisions of the head and face which we have just established : thus we find — 1. Cranial group, 2. Orbital group, 3. Nasal group, 4. Superior labial group, 5. Inferior labial group, 6. Maxillary group, 7. Auricular group.MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 149 H 3 The muscles belonging to each of these groups may be thus arranged : — 1. Cranial group. Occipito-frontalis. 2. Orbital group. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi. 3. Nasal group. Pyramidalis nasi, Compressor narium. 4. Superior labial group. (* Orbicularis oris), Levator labii superiors alaeque nasi, Levator labii superioris proprius, Levator anguli oris, Zigomaticus major, Zigomaticus minor, Depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi. 5. Inferior labial group. (* Orbicularis oris), Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Levator labii inferioris. 6. Maxillary group. Masseter, Temporalis, Buccinator, Pterygoideus externus, Pterygoideus internus, 7. Auricular group. Attollens aurem, Attrahens aurem, Retrahens aurem. The occipito-frontalis is to be dissected by making a longitudinal incision along the vertex of the head from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the root of the nose, and a second incision along the forehead and around the side of the head to join the two extremities of the preceding. Dissect the integument and superficial fascia carefully outwards, beginning at the anterior angle of the flap, where the mus- cular fibres are thickest, and remove it altogether. This dissection requires care, for the muscle is very thin, and without attention would be raised with the integument. There is no deep fascia on the face and head, nor is it required, for here the muscles are closely applied against the bones upon which they depend for support, whilst in the extremities the support is derived from the dense layer of fascia by which they are invested, and which forms for each a distinct sheath. The attachments of the Occipito-frontalis are expressed in its name. It arises from the rough surface immediately above the superior curved line of the occipital bone, being separated from its fellow by a considerable inter- * The orbicidaris, from encircling the mouth, belongs necessarily to both the superior and inferior labial regions ; therefore to prevent misconceptions we have enclosed it in both within brackets.MUSCLES. — ORBITAL GROUP. 150 val, and arches over the head to be inserted into the orbicularis palpebrarum and the nasal tuberosity of the frontal bone. A narrow slip from each muscle is con- tinued downwards upon the nasal bones to form the pyramidalis nasi muscle. The muscle is fleshy in front over the frontal bone, and behind over the occipital, the two portions being con- nected by a broad tendinous aponeurosis. The muscles of opposite sides cover the whole of the vertex of the skull, from the middle line to the temporal ridge. After examining the occipito-frontalis muscle, the student should remove the brain, as being the portion of the head most susceptible of decomposition. The anatomy of the encephalon and spinal cord form the subject of Chapter VI. The dissection of the face is next to be commenced, for which purpose the longitudinal incision of the vertex is to be continued onwards to the tip of the nose, and thence downwards to the margin of the upper lip ; then carry an incision along the margin of the lip to the angle of the mouth, and transversely across the face to the meatus auditorius. Lastly, divide the integument in front of the external ear upwards to the transverse incision which was made for exposing the occipito-frontalis. Dissect the integument and super- ficial fascia carefully from the whole of the region included by these incisions, and the three next groups of muscles will be brought into view. 2. Orbited Group. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi. The Orbicularis palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle surrounding the orbit and eyelids. It arises from the nasal process of the superior .maxillary bone, and from a short tendon (tendo oculi) extending between that process and the inner angle of the eyelids. Its fibres encircle the orbit and eyelids, forming a broad and thin muscular plane, which is inserted into the under surface of the tendon and process of bone from which it arose. Upon the eyelids its fibres are thin and very pale. The Corrugator supercilii is seen by raising the upper segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum from the frontal bone : it arises from the inner extremity of the super- ciliary ridge, and is inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis palpebrarum.NASAL GROUP. SUPERIOR LABIAL GROUP. 151 H 4 The Tensor tarsi (Horner’s # muscle) is a thin plane of muscular fibres, about three lines in breadth and six in length. It is best dissected by separating the eyelids from the eye, and turning them over the nose without disturbing the tendo oculi; then dissect away the small fold of mucous membrane called plica semilunaris, and some loose cellular tissue under which the muscle is con- cealed. It arises from the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac divides into two slips, which are inserted into the lachrymal ducts as far as the puncta. 3. Nasal Group. Pyramidalis nasi, Compressor nasi. The Pyramidalis nasi is a pyramidal slip of muscular fibres sent downwards upon the nose by the occipito- frontalis. It is inserted into the tendinous expansion of the compressores nasi. The Compressor nasi muscle arises from the canine fossa on the superior maxillary bone, and spreads upon the side of the nose into a thin tendinous expansion, which is continuous across its ridge with that from the opposite side. 4. Superior Labial Group. Orbicularis oris, Levator labii superioris ala^que nasi, Levator labii superioris proprius, Levator anguli oris, Zigomaticus major, Zigomaticus minor, Depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi. To obtain a complete view of the Orbicularis oris muscle, the integument should be raised from the whole circumference of the mouth. It is, however, sufficient for our present purpose to see only a part of the muscle. It is the sphincter of the mouth, and encircles it entirely, * \V. E Ilorner, M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania. 1 lie notice of this discovery is contained in a work published in Philadelphia in 1827, entitled “ Lessons in Practical Anatomy.”152 MUSCLES. INFERIOR LABIAL GROUP. forming a thick muscular plane. Its fibres are continuous all the way round, hence it has neither origin nor inser- tion. The Levator labii superioris alceque nasi arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and, becom- ing broader as it descends, is inserted into the ala of the nose and upper lip. The Levator labii superioris proprius arises from the lower border of the orbit, and is inserted into the side of the upper lip. The Levator anguli oris arises from the canine fossa on the superior maxillary bone, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. The Zigomatic muscles both arise from the malar bone, and are inserted into the angle of the mouth. The zigo- maticus minor is sometimes wanting. The Depressor labii superioris alceque nasi is seen by drawing upwards the upper lip, and raising the mucous membrane. It is an extremely small slip of muscle, situated on each side of the frsenum. It arises from the incisive fossa, and passes upwards to be inserted into the upper lip and ala of the nose. 5. Inferior Labial Group. Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Levator labii inferioris. To dissect the inferior labial region continue the vertical section from the margin of the lower lip to the point of the chin. Then carry an incision along the margin of the lower jaw to its angle, and thence up the border of the ramus to the external ear. Dissect off the integument and superficial fascia from the whole of this surface, and the muscles of the inferior labial region will be exposed. The Depressor labii inferioris arises from the surface of the lower jaw-bone, near to the symphisis, and is inserted into the lower lip. The Depressor anguli oris is a triangular plane of muscle arising by its base from the side of the body of the inferior maxilla, and inserted into the angle of the mouth. The Levator labii inferioris (levator menti) arises from the incisive fossa on the inferior maxillary bone, and is inserted into the integument of the chin.AURICULAR GROUP. MAXILLARY GROUP. 153 H 5 Before proceeding to examine the maxillary group, it would be desirable to dissect the three small muscles belonging to the external ear. For this purpose a square of integument should be removed from around it, and the muscles will then be exposed. 7. Auricular Group. Attollens aurem, Attrahens aurem, Retrahens aurem. The Attollens aurem (superior auris), the largest of the three, is a thin triangular plane of muscular fibres arising from the temporal fascia, and inserted into the upper part of the concha of the ear. The Attraliens aurem (anterior auris) arises from the temporal fascia immediately above the zygoma, and is inserted into the anterior part of the concha. The Retrahens aurem (posterior auris) arises by three or four muscular slips from the mastoid process. They are inserted into the posterior surface of the concha. 6. Maxillary Group. Masseter, Temporalis, Buccinator, Pterygoideus exterrius, Pterygoideus internus. The remaining group consists of the masticatory muscles. The first of these is the masseter : it has been already exposed by the dis- section which has been directed for the other muscles. The Masseter ([/.aao-do^ai, to chew,) muscle is composed of two planes of fibres, superficial and deep. The super- ficial layer arises from the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and the lower border of the malar bone and zigoma, and passes backwards to be inserted into the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. The deep layer arises from the posterior part of the zigoma, and passes forwards to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus. 1 his muscle is tendinous and muscular in its structure. It is crossed by the duct of the parotid gland, by the transverse facial artery, and by several branches of the facial nerve.MUSCLES. MAXILLARY GROUP. 154? The Temporal muscle is next to be examined. It is covered in by a very dense fascia (temporal fascia) which is attached along the temporal ridge on the side of the skull, extending from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the mastoid portion of the temporal: in- feriorly, it is connected to the upper border of the zigoma. Make an incision along the upper border of the zigoma, for the purpose of separating this fascia from its attachment. Then saw through the zigomatic process of the malar bone, and through the root of the zigoma, near to the meatus auditorius. Draw down the zigoma, and with it the origin of the masseter, and dissect the latter muscle away from the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. Now remove the temporal fascia from the rest of its attachment, and the whole of the temporal muscle will be exposed. It arises from the whole length of the temporal ridge, and from the entire surface of the temporal fossa. Its fibres converge to a strong narrow tendon, which is inserted into the apex of the coronoid process, and for some way down upon its inner surface. By sawing through the coronoid process near to its base, and pull- ing it upwards, together with the temporal muscle, which may be dissected from the fossa, we obtain a view of the entire extent of the buccinator muscle. The Buccinator (buccina, a trumpet), the trumpeter’s muscle, arises from the alveolar process of the superior and inferior maxillary bones, and from a ligament stretched between the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate and the extremity of the molar ridge of the lower jaw, the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The buccinator, by means of this ligament, is continuous with the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Its fibres converge to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, interlacing with the fibres of the orbicularis oris muscle. This muscle is pierced by the duct of the parotid gland opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The External pterygoid muscle is also seen in this dis- section. It arises by two heads, one from the crest on the greater ala of the sphenoid bone ; the other from the external pterygoid plate. The fibres pass backwards to be inserted into the neck of the lower jaw and inter- articular cartilage.MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 155 ACTIONS. h 6 The internal maxillary artery, as it curves inwards to enter the pterygo-maxillary fossa, is situated between these two heads. This muscle must now be removed, the ramus of the lower jaw sawn through its lower third, and the head of the bone dislocated from its socket, and withdrawn for the purpose of seeing the ptery- goideus internus muscle. The Internal pterygoid muscle arises from the ptery- goid fossa, and descends obliquely backwards to be in- serted into the ramus and angle of the lower jaw: it resembles the masseter very remarkably in its appearance and direction. Actions.—The occipito-frontalis muscle raises the eye-brows, producing the transverse wrinkles of the fore- head. Some persons have the power of moving the entire scalp by means of this muscle. The orbicularis palpebrarum acts as a sphincter in closing the eyelids ; the corrugatores superciliorum approximate the inner ex- tremities of the eyebrows, and throw the integument at the root of the nose into vertical wrinkles, as in frowning. The tensor tarsi, or lachrymal muscle draws the extremities of the lachrymal ducts inwards, so as to place the puncta in the best position for receiving the tears. It serves also to keep the lids in relation with the surface of the eye, and compresses the lachrymal sac. Dr. Horner is acquainted with two persons who have the voluntary power of draw- ing the lids inwards by these muscles, so as to bury the puncta in the angle of the eye. The pyramidalis nasi is merely a point of attachment of the occipito frontalis. It also fixes the expansion of the compressor nasi. The action of the muscles of the upper lip is expressed in their names. The orbicularis oris is the sphincter of the mouth. Ihe levator labii superioris alaeque nasi raises the upper lip, together with the ala of the nose. The depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi is the antagonist to this muscle, and draws the upper lip and ala of the nose downwards. I he levator labii superioris proprius is the proper elevator of the upper lip, and the levator anguli oris lifts the angle of the mouth. The zigomatic muscles draw the angles of the mouth upwards and outwards, as in laughter. Ihe muscles of the lower lip are also designatedMUSCLES OF THE NECK. 156 according to their actions: the depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip downwards, whilst it is carried up- wards by the levator labii inferioris, or levator menti. The depressor anguli oris expresses moroseness and grief, by drawing the angle of the mouth downwards. The muscles of the auricular region possess but little action in man. They are the analogues of important mus- cles in brutes. Their use is sufficiently explained in their names. The maxillary muscles are the active agents in masti- cation, and form an apparatus beautifully fitted for that office. The buccinator muscle circumscribes the cavity of the mouth, and with the aid of the tongue keeps the food under the immediate pressure of the teeth. By means of its connection with the superior constrictor, it shortens the cavity of the pharynx, from before backwards, and becomes an important auxiliary in deglutition. The tem- poral, the masseter, and the internal pterygoid are the bruising muscles, drawing the lower jaw against the upper with very great force. The two latter, by the obliquity of their direction, assist the external pterygoid in grinding the food by carrying the lower jaw forward upon the upper; the jaw being brought back again by the deep portion of the masseter and posterior fibres of the temporal. The whole of these muscles, acting in succession, produce a rotatory movement of the teeth upon each other, which, with the direct action of the lower jaw against the upper, effects the proper mastication of the food. Muscles of the Neck. The Neck, as we have before stated, is the medium of communication and connection, between the head and the trunk of the body. Connection is established by means of the integument and sterno-mastoid muscle, the muscles of the prever- tebral region, and posterior cervical muscles. Communication is effected by means of apparatuses, connected with respiration and deglutition. Associated with respiration is the larynx, and with deglutition the os hyoides, the tongue, the soft palate, and the pharynx. These may be considered as the elements of the neck,ARRANGEMENT INTO GROUPS. 157 and form so many regions, by which the muscles may be grouped and arranged. Thus we find the, 1. Superficial group. 2. Depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. 3. Elevators of the os hyoides and larynx. 4. Lingual group. 5. Soft palate group. 6. Pharyngeal group. 7. Prevertebral group. 8. Proper muscles of the larynx. These eight groups therefore, will form so many dis- tinct ideas, by which the composition of the neck and the arrangement of its muscles may be associated in the mind. To facilitate still more the learning of these mus- cles, the student is informed, that with the exception of the two first, each group consists of five muscles. This is better shown in the following table : — 1. Superficial group. Platysma myoides, Sterno-cleido-mastoideus. 2. Depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. Sterno-hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus, Thyro -hyoideus, Omo-hyoideus. 3. Elevators of the os hyoides and larynx. Digastricus, Stylo-hyoideus, Mylo-hyoideus, Genio-hyoideus, Genio-hyo-glossus. 4. Muscles of the tongue. Genio-hyo-glossus, Plyo-glossus, Lingualis, Stylo-glossus, Palato-glossus. 5. Muscles of the soft palate. Levator palati, Tensor palati, Azygos uvulae, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus. 6. Muscles of the pharynx. Constrictor inferior, Constrictor medius, Constrictor superior, Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus. 7. Prevertebral group. Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor, Scalenus anticus, Scalenus posticus, Longus colli.158 DISSECTION OP THE NECK. 8. Muscles of the larynx. Cr: co-ary taenoid, lateralis, Crico-thyroid, Thyro-arytaenoid, Crico-arytaenoid, posticus, Arytaenoid. After this arrangement of the muscles has been well considered, and, we may add, learnt by heart, the student should commence the dissection of one side of the neck with a view to see their connections and relations. With this object an incision should be made along the middle line of the neck from the chin to the sternum, and bounded superiorly and inferiorly by two transverse incisions; the superior one carried along the margin of the lower jaw, and across the mastoid process to the tubercle on the occipital bone, the inferior one along the clavicle to the acromion process. The square flap of integument thus included should be turned back from the entire side of the neck, which brings into view the superficial fascia. The Superficial fascia consists of two layers, between which is placed the platysma myoides muscle. The ex- ternal layer must, therefore, be reflected from off its fibres, to the same extent with the flap of integument, observing to dissect always in the course of the fibres. The Platysma myoides (pcXarvt;, y.vq, broad mus- cle-like lamella,) is a thin plane of muscular fibres, arising between the two layers of superficial fascia, over the pec- toralis major muscle, and passing obliquely upwards and inwards, along the side of the neck, to be inserted into the body of the lower jaw, the angle of the mouth, and side of the chin. The anterior fibres are continuous below the chin with the muscle of the opposite side. That portion of the muscle which is continued upwards to the angle of the mouth, was formerly called risorius Santorini* (the laughing muscle of Santorinus). The entire muscle is analogous to the cutaneous muscle of brutes, panniculus carnosus. Upon removing the platysma, and with it the deep layer of superficial fascia, we bring into view the external jugular vein, and ascending branches of the cervical plexus of nerves. The jugular vein is lying obliquely along the neck, parallel with the fibres of the platysma myoides, while it crosses the direction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The sterno-mastoid is as yet concealed from view by a * John Dominico Santorinus, Professor of Anatomy in Venice. His notice of this muscle is contained in his “ Observationes Ana- tomicaa,” published in 1724.DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. 159 layer of fascia, which covers in the whole of the side of the neck. This is the deep cervical fascia, the reflections of which we have next to examine. The Deep cervical fascia differs in structure from the deep fascia of the limbs, in having no tendinous fibres, and being composed entirely of condensed cellular tissue. It is attached posteriorly along the middle line of the neck to the ligamentum nuchae, being overlapped by the trapezius muscle. It then passes forwards around the side of the neck to the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, where it divides into two layers which embrace that muscle, and unite again at its anterior border. It is then directed onwards to the middle line, where it becomes continuous with the deep fascia of the opposite side of the neck. The anterior layer, that which is superficial to the sterno-mastoid, is prolonged upwards on the side of the jaw and parotid gland, and downwards over the clavicle and pectoralis major muscle. The posterior layer, which can only be examined by removing or drawing aside the sterno-mastoid muscle, is attached superiorly to the styloid process of the temporal bone, and is thence re- flected to the angle of the jaw, forming the stylo-maxillary ligament. Inferiorly it forms a loop, which acts as a pulley to the omo-hyoid muscle, and is then continued down- wards behind the clavicle, so as to enclose the subclavius muscle. The extremities of the latter portion are attached firmly to the cartilage of the first rib and to the coracoid process : hence it is named costo-coracoid membrane or ligament. In the middle line the deep fascia is continuous with the thoracic fascia. This fascia is of great importance in a surgical point of view. In its normal condition, it binds down firmly all the structures of the neck, and preserves their natural position. When, however, tumours form beneath it, as bronchocele, enlargements of the lymphatic glands, aneu- rism, &c., the pressure which is then exerted by this membrane may be fatal to the patient, from the com- pression of the trachea, larynx, and nerves, unless the tension be relieved by an incision. The Sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is to be exposed by opening the sheath formed around it by the deep fascia. It arises, as its name implies, from the sternum andDEPRESSORS OF THE LARYNX. 160 clavicle (k\e3iovs), and passes obliquely upwards and backwards to be inserted into the mastoid process and superior curved line of the occipital bone. The sternal portion arises by a rounded tendon, increases in breadth as it ascends, and spreads out to a considerable extent at its insertion. The clavicular portion is broad and fleshy, and separate from the sternal portion below, but becomes gradually blended with its posterior surface as it ascends. Actions. — The platysma produces a muscular traction on the integument of the neck, which prevents it from falling so flaccid in old persons as it would if the exten- sion of the skin were the mere result of elasticity. It draws also upon the angle of the mouth. The sterno- mastoid muscles are the great anterior muscles of con- nection between the thorax and the head. Both muscles acting together will bow the head directly forwards. The clavicular portions, acting more forcibly than the sternal, give stability and steadiness to the head in sup- porting great weights. Either muscle acting singly would draw the head towards the shoulder of the same side, and carry the face towards the opposite side. The anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle is the guide for the incisions in ligature of the carotid artery. The sterno-mastoid may now be removed, by dividing it through the middle, and turning aside its ends. The upper end will be seen to be pierced by a large nerve, the spinal accessory of the eighth pair. The deep layer of fascia is then to be dissected from off the side of the larynx and trachea, towards the middle line, in order to bring into view the second group of muscles of the neck. Second Group.—Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, Thyro-hyoid, Omo-hyoid. The Sterno-liyoideus is a narrow riband-like muscle, arising from the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum and sterno-clavicular articulation, and from theELEVATORS OF THE OS HYOIDES. 161 cartilage of the first rib. It is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The sterno-hyoidei are separated by a considerable interval at the root of the neck, but approach each other as they ascend. The Sterno-lhyroideus, broader than the preceding, arises from the posterior surface of the upper bone of the sternum, and is inserted into the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. The Thyro-liyoideus is the continuation upwards of the sterno-thyroid muscle. It arises from the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the body and great cornu of the os hyoides. The Omo-hyoideus shoulder) passes obliquely across the neck from the scapula to the os hyoides. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and from the tx-ansverse ligament of the supra-scapular notch, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. It is a double- bellied muscle, its extremities being muscular, and the middle a rounded tendon. The tendon glides through a loop formed by the posterior layer of the deep fascia, which serves it as a pulley. Actions. — The four muscles of this group are the depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. The three former drawing these parts downwards in the middle line, and the two omo-hyoidei regulating their traction to the one or other side of the neck, according to the position of the head. Third Group. — Elevators of the Os Hyoides. Digastricus, Stylo-hyoid, Mylo-hyoid, Genio-hyoid, Genio-hyo-glossus. These arc best dissected by placing a high block beneath the neck, and throwing the head backwards. The integument has been already dissected away, and the removal of the cellular tissue and fat brings them clearly into view. The Digastricus (§*$, twice, yao-Typ, belly) is fleshy at each extremity, and tendinous in the middle. It arises from the digasti’ic fossa, immediately behind the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and is inserted into a de-162 ELEVATORS OF THE OS IIYOIDES. pression on the inner side of the lower jaw, close to the symphisis. The middle tendon is held in connection with the body of the os hyoides by an aponeurotic loop, through which it plays as through a pulley. The Stylo-hyoideus is situated in immediate relation with the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, by which it is pierced. It arises from the middle of the styloid process, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The digastricus and stjdo-hyoideus must be removed from their connection with the lower jaw and os hyoides, and turned aside to see the next muscle. The Mylo-hyoideus mola, i. e. attached to the molar ridge of the lower jaw) is a broad triangular plane of muscular fibres, forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, the inferior wall or floor of the mouth. It arises from the molar ridge on the lower jaw, and proceeds obliquely’ inwards to be inserted into the raplie of the two muscles and body of the os hyoides. After the mylo-hyoideus has been examined, it should be cut away from its origin and insertion, and completely removed. The view of the next muscles would also be greatly improved by dividing the lower jaw a little to the side of the symphisis, and drawing it outwards or removing it altogether, if the ramus have been already cut across in dissecting the internal pterygoid muscle. The tongue may then be drawn out of the mouth by means of a hook. The Genio-liyoideus (yiveiov, the chin) arises from a small tubercle upon the inner side of the symphisis of the lower jaw, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. It is a short prettily formed muscle, very closely con- nected with the border of the following. The Genio-hyo-glossus (y\u<roa, the tongue) is a trian- gular muscle, narrow and pointed at its origin from the lower jaw, broad and fan-shaped at its attachment to the tongue. It arises from a tubercle immediately above that of the genio-hyoideus, and spreads out to be inserted into the whole length of the tongue, from its base to the apex, and into the body of the os hyoides. Actions. — The whole of this group of muscles acts upon the os hyoides, when the lower jaw is closed, and upon the lower jaw when the os hyoides is drawn down- wards, and fixed by the depressors of the os hyoides and f163 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. larynx. The genio-hyo-glossus is, moreover, a muscle of the tongue ; its action upon that organ shall be considered with the next group. Fourth Group. — Muscles of the Tongue. Genio-hyo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Lingualis, Stylo-glossus, Palato-glossus. These are already exposed by the preparation we have just made ; there remains, therefore, only to dissect and examine them. The Genio-hyo-glossus, the first of these muscles, has been described with the last group. The Hyo-glossus is a square-shaped plane of muscle, arising from the whole length of the great cornu of the os hyoides, and inserted into the side of the tongue. This muscle is remarkable from being crossed by two large nerves, the gustatory and lingual, and by the duct (Wharton’s) of the submaxillary gland. See fig. 15. The lingual artery and glosso-pharyngeal nerve pass behind it. The Lingualis.— The fibres of this muscle may be seen towards the apex of the tongue, issuing from the space between the hyo-glossus and genio-l^o-glossus. It is better examined, however, by removing the preceding muscle. It consists of a small fasciculus of fibres, running longitudinally from the base, where it is attached to the os hyoides to the apex of the tongue. The Stylo-glossus arises from the apex of the styloid process, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is inserted into the side of the tongue, nearly as far as the tip, intermingling its fibres with those of the hyo-glossus. Ihe Palato-glossus passes between the soft palate, and the side of the base of the tongue, forming a projection of the mucous membrane, which is called the anterior pillar of the soft palate. Actions.— Ihe genio-hyo-glossus muscle effects se- veral movements of the tongue, as might be expected from its extent. When the tongue is steadied and pointed by the other muscles, the posterior fibres of the164- PAROTID GLAND. genio-hyo-glossus would dart it from the mouth, while its anterior fibres would restore it to its original position. The whole length of the muscle acting upon the tongue, would render it concave along the middle line, and form a channel for the current of fluid towards the pharynx, as in sucking. The apex of the tongue is directed to the roof of the mouth, and rendered convex from before backwards by the linguales. The hyo-glossi, by drawing down the sides of the tongue, render it convex along the middle line. It is drawn upwards at its base by the palato-glossi, and backwards or to either side by the stylo-glossi. Thus the whole of the complicated movements of the tongue may be explained, by reasoning upon the direction of the fibres of the muscles, and their probable actions. We have now proceeded as far as this stage of the dissection will permit us. The examination of the other groups will require a pre- paration that would be injurious to the opposite side of the neck, which we have as yet kept untouched, for the purpose of studying the arteries and nerves. We postpone, therefore, the consideration of the remaining layers until the progress of the dissection shall enable us to examine them. The student should now commence the dissection of the opposite side of the face and neck, with a view to study the vessels, nerves, and glands which are situated in those regions. For this purpose he should carry a vertical incision directly downwards in front of the external ear from the posterior part of the temple to the angle of the lower jaw; from this draw four transverse incisions, the uppermost along the .middle of the forehead to the middle line, another to the angle of the eyelid, a third to the angle of the mouth, and a fourth along the border of the lower jaw to the chin. Then dissect each of these strips of integument carefully away, so as to expose the super- ficial fascia over the whole of the side of the face. Immediately in front of the external ear, between it and the ramus of the lower jaw, is the large salivary gland, the Parotid (napa, near ; ovg, uto<;, the ear). This gland extends for some little distance over the side of the face, overlapping the masseter muscle. It reaches inferiorly to below the level of the angle of the lower jaw, and pos- teriorly to the mastoid process, slightly overlapping the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At its upper ex- tremity near the root of the zygoma, the temporal artery is seen issuing from beneath it; and in front, along its an- terior border, the transversalis faciei artery, the excretory duct, and several branches of the facial nerve will be observed.165 FACIAL NERVE. The duct of the parotid gland (Stenon’s* duct,) pro- ceeds from the upper part of the gland, and crosses the masseter muscle transversely to its anterior border, where it pierces the buccinator muscle, and opens upon the mucous membrane of the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. A second portion of gland is often developed from the duct, while on the masseter muscle, and is called socia parotidis. If the border of the parotid gland be raised, a plexus of large nerves, branches of the facial (portio dura), will be seen beneath, and in its structure. This plexus is named from bearing some resemblance to the spreading foot of a palmipede, pes anserinus (goose’s foot). By tracing the branches back through the gland, we reach the trunk of the nerve, and with a little care it may be exposed as far as the point where it issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen. We must then follow its branches forwards, in the opposite direction. These will be seen to radiate over the side of the temples, face, and upper part of the neck. The Facial nerve (portio dura) arises from the upper part of the respiratory tract in the medulla oblongata. It enters the meatus auditorius interims with the auditory nerve (portio mollis), and at the bottom of that cavity passes into the canal which is expressly intended for it, the aqueductus Fallopii. In this canal it directs its course at first forwards towards the hiatus Fallopii, where it forms a gangliform swelling, and receives the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. It then curves backwards towards the tympanum, and descends along its inner wall to the stylo-mastoid foramen. Emerging at the stylo- mastoid foramen, it passes forwards within the parotid gland, and crossing the external carotid artery to the ramus of the jaw. While situated within the gland, it is joined by a branch from the auricular nerve, and divides into two trunks, which, by their subdivision and communica- tions, form the pes anserinus. The pes anserinus divides into the numerous branches which supply the muscles over the whole of the side of the face. * Nicholas Stenon, an anatomist of great research. He discovered the parotid duct while in Paris. He was appointed Professor of Medicine in Copenhagen, in 1672. His work « De Musculis et Glandulis Obser.,” was published in 1664.166 FACIAL NERVE BRANCHES. The Branches of the Facial Nerve are, Within the aque- ductus Fallopii After emerging at the stylo-mastoid foramen On the face J Tympanic, \ (Chorda tympani *}. ‘Communicating, Posterior auricular, Digastric, _ Stylo-hyoid, f Temporo-facial, \ Cervico-facial. The Tympanic branches are two small filaments, which are distributed to the stapedius and tensor tympani mus- cles. The Chorda tympani quits the facial nerve just before it emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen. Entering the tympanum at its posterior and superior angle, it crosses its cavity between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, to its anterior inferior angle. It then escapes through the fissura Glaseri, and joins the gustatory nerve at an acute angle between the two pterygoid muscles. Enclosed in the neurilema j- of the gustatory nerve, it descends to the submaxillary gland, where it unites with the submaxillary ganglion. The Communicating branches are filaments which it receives from the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves. The Posterior auricular nerve ascends behind the ear, and crosses the mastoid process to the occipito-frontalis muscle; it gives branches also to the attollens and re- trahens muscles of the pinna. The Digastric branch supplies the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle. The Stylo-hyoid branch is distributed to the stylo-hyoid muscle. The facial nerve then enters the parotid gland, and divides into its two ultimate trunks — temporo-facial and cervico-facial. * The chorda tympani is not a branch of the facial, but being in close connection with it, and being given off from it like a branch, we have inserted it here lest it should be overlooked. •}• No proof of this independent relation of the chorda tympani to the gustatory nerve has yet been afforded by anatomy ; and recent physiological discoveries throw much doubt over the question.FACIAL NERVE.—COMMUNICATIONS. 167 The Temporo-facial gives off a number of branches which are distributed over the temple and upper half of the face, supplying the muscles of this region, and com- municating with the branches of the supra-orbital nerve. The inferior branches, which accompany Stenon’s duct, form a plexus with the terminal branches of the infra- orbital nerve. The Cervico-facial divides into a number of branches that are distributed to muscles on the lower half of the face, and upper part of the neck. The cervical brandies form a plexus {Jig- 14. 11.) with the superficial^ colli nerve over the submaxillary gland. The Facial nerve has been named sympatlieticus minor, on account of the number of communications which it maintains with other nerves. These will be best seen in a tabular arrangement: — In the petrous hone it communicates with At its exit from the stylo-mastoid fora- men, with { { Auditory nerve, Petrosal branch of Vidian, Otic ganglion. Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric. In the parotid gland with "Auricular of the inferior max- illary, Auricularis magnus, Occipitalis minor. On the, face and nech with v. Supra-orbital, Infra-orbital, Temporo-malar of the superior maxillary, Buccal, Mental, Superficialis colli. From the supra-orbital, infra-orbital, and mental fora- mina, will be found issuing the terminal branches of the fifth nerve distributed to the face. They form plexuses of communication with branches of the facial nerve. Ascending obliquely across the face from the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle to the angle of the eye, is the facial artery; and descending along the anterior168 EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. border of the masseter to join the artery, as it crosses the border of the jaw, is the facial vein. The Integument, which has already been partly removed from the neck, may now be dissected back altogether, bounding it by an incision made along the line of the clavicle. The superficial fascia is next to be removed, and with it the platysma myoides, noting the direction in which its fibres run. The deep fascia is thus brought into view, extending from the border of the trapezius to the middle line on the front of the neck. In relation with this fascia on the side of the neck, are certain parts which demand the student’s especial attention: they are, — The external jugular vein, The ascending branches of the cervical plexus, viz.— Superficialis colli, Auricularis magnus, Occipitalis minor. Sterno-mastoid muscle. The external jugular vein lies upon the deep fascia. The nerves lie partly between the two layers of the deep fascia, and partly superficial to them. The muscle is between the two layers, being the cause of their separation. The External jugular vein (fig. 14*. 8.) is the superficial venous trunk of the neck ; it receives the returning blood from the exterior of the side of the head, being formed by the Temporal vein, Internal maxillary, Posterior auricular, and near to the clavicle is joined by cutaneous veins from the back of the neck. Immediately beneath the parotid gland it communicates with the internal jugular vein. . .... Course. — Emerging from the parotid gland in which it lies imbedded, it descends somewhat obliquely along the side of the neck, and behind the clavicle to the sub- clavian vein. Relations. — It lies upon the sheath of the sterno-169 OPENING THE JUGULAR VEIN. mastoid muscle for nearly its whole course, being placed for a short space to its anterior border above, and upon its posterior border below. It is accompanied by the auri- cularis magnus nerve, and is covered by the platysma muscle, enclosed between the two layers of superficial fascia. Operations. — Now let us suppose that the student were called upon to open the external jugular vein, what would he cut through ? — Why, through the Integument, One layer of superficial fascia, Platysma, The other layer of superficial fascia, The vein. But here a very important surgical question arises ; — in what direction should he carry the point of his lancet ? Why, towards the back of the ear, in the direction (Jig. 14. 10.) of the sterno-mastoid muscle. He will thus cut across the fibres of the platysma, 9. : these will retract*', the wound will gape, and the blood flow. If he should make his cut in the opposite direction, i. e. parallel with the fibres of the platysma, the fibres acting spasmodically will be drawn close together, and close the wound, f The next step in the dissection is to open the sheath of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and carefully trace the three ascending branches of the cervical plexus to their desti- nation. The Superficialis colli {fig. 14. 11.) pierces the fascia at the anterior border of the muscle, and ascends obliquely towards the lower jaw, beneath which it forms a plexus with the cervico-facial branches of the facial nerve. It is distributed to the integument on the front of the neck. * It is the property of muscular fibres to contract when cut across; hence the frightful gaping wounds resulting from a trifling cut across a muscle. The same wound in the direction of the muscular fibres would give rise to no alarm. In dissection we apply this principle by drawing the knife always in the direction of the fibres : if the cel- lular tissue be removed in the opposite direction, a ragged unsightly surface is the consequence. f A patient might be lost in this way by the unskilfulness of the operator. For, if no blood should flow, the surgeon might infer that all circulation had ceased, and would deem the application of resus- citating means as hopeless; while the true cause of the absence of blood existed in the direction of the wound. I170 SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL NERVES. The Auricularis magnus (fig. 14. 13.), the largest of the three, pierces the fascia, ancl accompanies the external jugular vein. It is distributed to the integument over the parotid gland, and to the external ear, and communicates with the facial nerve. The Occipitalis minor (fig. 14. 14.) ascends along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is dis- tributed to the integument of the occiput. Having learned the jugular vein and ascending nerves of the cervical plexus, attention must now be directed to the sterno-mastoid muscle, from which the fascia should be removed so as to expose its entire length. The fascia should also be dissected from the whole of the rest of the neck, both before and behind the sterno-mastoid, so as to enable us to examine the deep parts as an entire layer. Behind the sterno-mastoid some difficulty will arise in the dissection, from the number of branches given off by the cervical plexus. When this preparation has been entirely completed, the side of the neck will present a pretty regular square ; — bounded above by the margin of the lower jaw and occiput, below by the clavicle, in front by the middle line of the neck, and behind by the vertebral column. The sterno- mastoid muscle (fig. 14. l.) extends diagonally across * Fig. H* The triangles of the neck, with the external jugular vein and ascending branches of the cervical plexus. No. 1. The sterno-mastoid muscle, which divides the side of theTRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 171 i 2 this space, from the anterior inferior to the posterior superior angle, and divides it into two triangles of nearly equal size, the great anterior and the great posterior tri- angle. The Great anterior triangle (fig. 14. a, b,c.) is bounded above by the body of the lower jaw ; in front, by the middle line of the neck ; and, behind, by the sterno- mastoid muscle. It is subdivided into three minor tri- angles : — 1. The submaxillary triangle, a., formed by the two bellies of the digastric muscle, 3, 3., and the border of the lower jaw, 2. 2. The superior carotid triangle, b., formed by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, 3., the upper belly of the omo-hyoid, 4., and the sterno- mastoid. And 3. The inferior carotid triangle, c., which is bounded by the superior belly of the omo-hyoid mus- cle, the sterno-mastoid muscle, and the middle line of the neck. The Great posterior triangle (fig. 14. d, e.) is bounded, in front, by the sterno-mastoid; behind, by the border of the trapezius muscle ; and, below, by the clavicle. It is subdivided into two minor triangles by the inferior belly, 5., of the omo-hyoid muscle. 1. The suboccipital triangle, d., situated above the omo-hyoid ; and 2. The subclavian triangle, e., which is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle ; behind, by the inferior belly of the omo- hyoid ; and, below, by the clavicle. These triangles are thus particularly indicated, because they contain certain important parts ; for instance, the Submaxillary triangle, a., contains in the posterior half neck into two great triangles, the anterior and posterior, a. The submaxillary triangle, b. The superior carotid triangle, c. The inferior carotid triangle, d. The sub-occipital triangle, e. The subclavian triangle. 2. The border of the lower jaw. 3. 3. The digastric muscle. 4. The superior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. 5. Its inferior belly. 6. The trapezius muscle. 7. The parotid gland. 8. The external jugular vein. 9. A dotted line, marking the direction of the fibres of the platysma myoides muscle. 10. A small arrow, showing the direction of the incision for opening the jugular vein. 11. The superficialis colli nerve, which forms a plexus with (12.) a branch from the facial nerve, over the submaxillary tri- angle. 13. The auricularis magnus nerve. 14. The occipitalis minor. 15. The descending superficial branches of the plexus. 16. The spinal accessory nerve.172 CONTENTS OF THE TRIANGLES. of its area the submaxillary gland in which the facial artery lies embedded, while it conceals from view the commencement of Wharton’s duct, the gustatory nerve, and the submaxillary ganglion. The anterior angle is occupied by the mylo-hyoideus muscle, the submental branch of the facial artery, and the mylo-hyoidean nerve. And in the inferior angle may be observed a small portion of the lingual nerve. 2. The Superior carotid triangle, b., contains the upper portion of the common carotid artery, and its bifurcation into the external and internal carotids; the superior thyroid and the commencement of the lingual and facial arteries ; the internal jugular vein and a chain of lym- phatic glands ; the descendens noni nerve in front of the sheath of the carotid, the pneumogastric within, and the superior laryngeal and sympathetic behind. Crossing the upper angle is the lingual nerve. 3. In the Inferior carotid triangle, c., are found the lower part of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, descendens noni, pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. 4. The Suboccipital triangle, d., contains the sub- occipital nerve at its upper angle, and the spinal accessory nerve and branches of the cervical plexus below. 5. The Subclavian triangle, e., contains the termination of the external jugular vein, the third part of the course of the subclavian artery, and the brachial plexus of nerves, and is crossed by the posterior scapular artery. We would not counsel the student to learn up the contents of these triangles by rote; the notice of their contents is meant chiefly for the dissector, who, in reading each structure, should seek for it in its appropriate place. The names of the regions carry with them the best idea of their principal features, and these the least attentive learner cannot fail of recollecting. The use of a good knowledge of the triangular spaces is its application to the operations for ligature of the arteries of the neck. Operations. — The Facial artery is usually tied while resting on the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle. It is here superficial, and may be felt and seen pulsating immediately beneath the integument. It is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, and plalysma. If it were necessary to173 OPERATIONS ON THE NECK. i 3 tie the artery below the jaw, the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle would be the guide to the vessel. The ligature might then be passed around it just before it entered the submaxillary gland, whilst resting against the stylo-maxillary ligament. The structures to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Platysma, Cervical branches of the cervico-facial nerve, Deep fascia. The Lingual artery is tied in the upper angle of the superior carotid triangle. The external incision should be made parallel with the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle. It should cut through the integument, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. The hyo-glossus will then form the floor of the wound, upon which rests the lingual nerve: this must be carefully avoided by making the incision through the muscle below the nerve. The artery will then be exposed in the second part of its course. The structures to be cut through are the Integument, . j Superficial fascia, Platysma, Superficialis colli nerve, Deep fascia, Hyo-glossus muscle. But the superior carotid triangle is the seat of a much greater ope- ration, the ligature of the upper part of the common carotid artery, the high operation, as it is called. Here, the artery is comparatively superficial, and the operation proportionately simple. The incision is to be made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, com- mencing an inch below the angle of the jaw, and carrying it half way down the neck. It should divide the integument, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. We then expose the sheath of the vessels, upon which lies the descendens noni nerve. Leave this nerve un- disturbed, and open the sheath to its inner side, immediately above the omo-hyoid muscle; then insinuate the needle around the artery from without inwards, guarding against including the pneumogastri’c nerve by keeping the point of the instrument close to the cylinder of the artery. The parts to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Platysma, Superficialis colli nerve, Deep fascia, Sheath of the vessels.m LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID. Two operations are likewise practised in the inferior carotid triangle for the ligature of the lower part of the common carotid and the in- nominata artery. The former is called the low operation. The sterno-mastoid is still the guide for the incision, and the layers to be cut through are precisely the same as in the high operation. The sterno-mastoid is to be drawn aside, and the sheath will be found concealed by the sterno-thyroid muscle. This muscle is to be divided, and the sheath opened as in the previous operation. The descendens noni, if it extend so low, lies to the inner side of the sheath. The anterior jugular vein is situated along the inner border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, and should be looked for and avoided. The parts to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Platysma, Deep fascia, Sterno-thyroid muscle, Sheath of the vessels. The operation for tying the Arteria innominata requires that an incision, three inches in length, should be made obliquely across the space between the two sterno-mastoid muscles, immediately above the sternum. This incision should commence over the right sterno- clavicular articulation, and be carried obliquely upwards to the sterno-mastoid muscle of the opposite side, dividing the integument, superficial, and deep fascia. The operator then separates the two sterno-thyroid muscles; and, following the course of the trachea, reaches that artery as it crosses that tube to the right side. In the injected subject the student will find this by no means a difficult operation : the artery is much more superficial than might be expected, and the practice of it on the subject will not only familiarise him with the natural position of the artery, but also with the proximity of the arch of the aorta, and the possibility of aneurism of that vessel making its appearance in this situation. The inferior thyroid veins are very much in the way in this operation, and care must be taken not to wound them. An inferior thyroid artery, from the innominata, is also occasionally met with. The layers to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Deep fascia, Cellular tissue. There is another operation connected with this region that we must not pass over without remark, although but a trifling one compared with the preceding. Indeed, next to bleeding, it is the most import- ant operation on the human body. Its importance consists in the emergency of the circumstances under which the surgeon is called upon to act, and upon the liability of its occurrence to every prac- titioner, and at every instant of his life;—we mean Tracheotomy. No student should dissect the neck without performing this operation,LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 175 which, though trifling in itself, might be the instant means of saving, if not of restoring, life. If called unexpectedly to a patient labour- ing under symptoms of threatened suffocation, he would not hesitate to perform it with his pen-knife; therefore he must familiarise him- self with its steps. An incision is to be made to the extent of an inch and a half along the middle line of the neck, just above the sternum. This may divide the integument and superficial fascia. The next incision takes him to the space between the two sterno-thyroid muscles: these are to be separated, an opening made into the trachea, and a canula, or writing quill, inserted into it. This is the only part of the operation that requires care; for some large veins, the inferior thyroid, and occa- sionally an inferior thyroid artery from the innominata, lie imme- diately upon the trachea. The author has several specimens of this variety in his collection ; and the proportion in which he has observed them is about 5 in 100. The bleeding resulting from the wound of any of these vessels might be fatal from pouring into the trachea. In the case of the artery it would be necessary to tie the divided extremities. A little higher in the neck, immediately below the thyroid cartilage, Laryngotomy is performed. The structures are to be divided as in the previous operation, and the point of a bistoury introduced into the larynx through the crico-thyroid membrane, in the space left by the divergence of the two crico-thyroid muscles. A small branch of communication between the two superior thyroid arteries sometimes crosses this ligament, the division of which might give rise to dis- agreeable haemorrhage. In the subclavian triangle is performed the operation for tying the Subclavian artery in the only * practicable situation above the clavicle, viz. in the third part of its course, where it issues from between the two scaleni muscles, and rests on the first rib. An incision is made along the upper border of the clavicle, from the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the edge of the trapezius. This should divide the integument, superficial fascia, pla- tysma, and deep fascia ; and more or less of the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, according to its breadth or the depth of the artery. Then lay aside the knife, introduce a finger into the wound behind the vein, and feel for the tubercle on the first rib : immediately behind it is the cylinder of the artery, which may be recognised by its roundness and elasticity, and by its pulsation * We lately witnessed an operation for subclavian aneurism, above the clavicle, performed by Mr. Liston, in the North London Hos- pital, in which the subclavian artery was tied at its origin from the innominata. I he common carotid was also tied near to its origin. The details of the case will be found in the second volume of the Lancet for 1837-38, page 668. We recommend the student to examine the artery at this point in his dissection, and study its important relations, in order to understand fully the knowledge of anatomy and dexterity necessary to accomplish such an operation. I 4<176 VESSELS OF THE NECK. beneath the finger. The chief difficulty in this operation is the position of the subclavian vein, directly in front of the artery ; and occasionally the external jugular vein opening into it, in the middle of the space, will prove a great obstacle. The operator has to guard against wounding any of these veins, or taking up the brachial plexus of nerves. The structures to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Platysina, Clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, Clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, Deep fascia, Cellular tissue. When the student has practised these operations, and carefully noted all the structures situated in the triangles of the neck, he should next proceed to the dissection and study of the vessels and nerves. Vessels of the Neck. Divide the sterno-mastoid muscle through its middle, and turn aside the ends; the upper extremity will be seen to be pierced by the spinal accessory nerve. Then dissect off the posterior layer of the deep fascia, and the sheath of the carotid vessels will be exposed throughout its entire extent. Tying upon the sheath, and forming a loop at about its middle, is a long slender nerve, the descendens noni. Open the sheath, and it will be found to contain the carotid artery, jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve. Behind it is the recurrent laryngeal, and sympathetic nerve. Dissect the cellular tissue and lymphatic glands, which are numerous in the course of the jugular vein, from around the vessels, for the purpose of examining them and their relations more satisfactorily. The Carotid artery (i<apa, the head) of the right side (Jiff- 17. 8.), is shorter and larger than that on the left: the former being a branch of the innominata, com- mences opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation, the latter from the arch of the aorta. From either point the carotid ascends the side of the neck to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides (y?y. 15. 7.) into the external carotid and internal carotid. Relations. — The Common carotid of the right side rests, first, upon the longus colli muscle, then upon the rectus anticus major, the sympathetic nerve being inter- posed. The inferior thyroid artery and recurrent larjm- geal nerve pass behind it at its lower part. To its inner side is the trachea, recurrent laryngeal nerve, and larynx ; to its outer side the jugular vein and pneumogastricCOMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 177 nerve ; and in front the sterno-thyroid, sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid and platysma muscles, and the descendens noni nerve. The Left carotid (Jig. 17. 9.) is smaller than the right, and more deeply seated. In addition to the relations just enumerated, which are common to both, it is crossed near its commencement by the left vena innominata; lies upon the trachea; then gets to its side, and is in relation with the oesophagus and thoracic duct: to facilitate the study of these relations, we have arranged them in a In Front. Platysma. Descendens noni nerve. Omo-hyoid, Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-thyroid. Common Carotid Artery. Behind. Longus colli. Rectus anticus major. Sympathetic. Inferior hyroid artery. Recurrent laryngeal. Additional relations of the Left common carotid. In Front. Behind. Internal. Left vena innominata. Trachea. (Esophagus. Thoracic duct. The External carotid artery (fig. 15.) ascends perpendicularly from opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, to the space between the neck of the lower jaw and the meatus auditorius. Relations. — In front it is crossed by the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus and platysma myoides muscles ; by the lingual nerve (fig. 15. 21.) near its origin ; and higher up, where it is situated in the substance of the parotid gland, by the facial nerve. Be- hind, it is separated from the internal carotid by the stylo- i 5 Internally. Trachea. Larynx. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. tabular form : — Externally. Internal jugular vein. Pneumo-gastric nerve.178 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles, glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 20., and part of the parotid gland. Its relations may be thus arranged : — In Front. Platysma. Digastricus. Stylo-hyoid. Lingual nerve. Facial nerve. Parotid gland. External Carotid Artery. jBehind. Stylo-pharyngeus. Stylo-glossus. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Parotid gland. The External carotid artery is intended for the supply of the organs in the neck and the external part of the head. If we reflect upon what these organs and parts should be, we shall find, that taking them in succession, from below upwards/they are, in front—1st. The thyroid gland and larynx. 2d. The tongue. 3d. The surface of the face. Behind—4th. The mastoid muscle. 5th. The external ear. 6th. The occiput. And above—7th. The pharynx. 8th. The side of the face. 9th. The temple and side of the head; and 10th. The deep parts in the face. These are so many arterial regions on the exterior of the head, and upper part of the neck : they are ten in number, and a branch of the external carotid is destined to the supply of each. The branches, therefore, are, — Anterior. Posterior. ]. Superior thyroid. 4. Mastoid. 2. Lingual. 5. Posterior auricular. 3. Facial. 6. Occipital. Superior. 7. Ascending pharyngeal. 8. Transverse facial. 9. Temporal. 10. Internal maxillary.DISTRIBUTION. BRANCHES. 179 The Anterior branches arise from the commencement of the external carotid, within a short distance of each other. The lingual and facial bifurcate, not unfrequently from a common trunk. 1. The Superior thyroid artery {Jig. 15. 8.) descends to the thyroid gland to which it is distributed, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. Its branches are,— (1.) Superior Thyroid.—Branches. Hyoid, Laryngeal, Muscular. The Hyoid branch is distributed to the insertion of the depressor muscles into the os hyoides. The Lciryngecdjwces the thyro-hyoidean membrane, in company with the superior laryngeal nerve, and supplies the mucous membrane and muscles of the larynx. The Muscidar branch is distributed to the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. 2. Lingual artery.— 1st. Crosses obliquely {Jig. 15. 9.) the great cornu of the os hyoides. 2d. It passes forwards Fig. 15. Tlie anatomy of the side of the tongue, with the rela- tions of the vessels and nerves. No. 1. The hyo-glossus muscle, arising from the side of the os i G180 LINGUAL ARTERY. parallel, li., with the upper border of the os hyoides. 3d. Ascends, 12., to the under surface of the tongue ; and 4th. Runs forward in a serpentine direction to its tip, under the name of ranine artery, 13. Its course is thus divided into four parts, and the relations of each are to be studied separately, with a view to operations on the artery in any part of its course. Relations—The first of its course, 9., rests upon the great cornu of the os hyoides, and the origin of the middle constrictor muscle, 10., of the pharynx ; the second, li., is situated between the middle constrictor and hyo- glossus muscles, the latter separating it from the lingual nerve, 21. In the third part of its course, 12., it lies between the liyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus, 4., and in the fourth, 13. (ranine), rests upon the lingualis to the tip of the tongue. Its branches are,— (2.) Lingual Artery. — Branches. Hyoid, Dorsalis linguae, Sublingual. The Hyoid branch is distributed to the origins of the elevator muscles of the os hyoides. hyoides below, and inserted into the side of the tongue, where it mingles its fibres with those of the stylo-glossus muscle. 2. 3. A section of the lower jaw at the symphisis. 4. The genio-hyo-glossus muscle. 5. The genio-hyoideus muscle. 6. The cut edge of the mylo-hyoideus. 7. The common carotid artery, dividing into the external and internal carotid. 8. The trunk of the superior thyroid artery. 9. The lingual artery; the first, or oblique portion of its course, resting upon the great cornu of the os hyoides, and upon (10.) the middle constrictor muscle. 11. The second, or horizontal portion of the lingual artery; its course beneath the liyo-glossus muscle is marked by dotted lines. 12. The third, or perpendicular portion of the lingual artery. 13. Its termination, the ranine artery. 14. The trunk of the facial artery. 15. The three posterior branches of the external carotid artery; they are from below, upwards, the mastoid, occipital, and posterior auricular. 16. The trunk of the ascending pharyngeal artery. 17. The trunk of the transverse facial artery. 18. The two terminal branches of the external carotid, the internal maxillary and temporal. 19. The gustatory branch of the fifth nerve. * Its communication with the lingual nerve. 20. The glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve. 21. The lingual, or hypoglossal nerve. 22. Whar- ton’s duct. 23. The sublingual gland.FACIAL ARTERY. 181 The Dorsalis linguae ascends along the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle to the dorsum of the tongue, where it is distributed, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The Sublingual branch runs along the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and is distributed to the sublingual gland and muscles of the tongue. 3. Facial artery. {Fig. 15. 14.)—The facial artery as- cends obliquely to the submaxillary gland, in which it lies embedded. It then curves around the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle, ascends to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the angle of the eye, where it is named the angular artery. Relations.— Below the jaw it passes beneath the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles, and at the angle of the mouth beneath the zigomatic muscles. Its branches are divided into those which are given off below the jaw and those on the face : they may be thus arranged, — (3.) Facial artery. — Branches. Below the jaw. Inferior palatine, Submaxillary, Sub-mental. On the face. Masseteric, Inferior labial, Inferior coronary, Superior coronary, Lateralis nasi. The Inferior palatine branch ascends between the stylo-glossusandstylo-pharyngeus muscles, to be distributed to the tonsil and soft palate. The Submaxillary are the numerous small branches supplying the submaxillary gland. rl he Sub-mental branch runs forwards upon the mylo- hyoid muscle, under cover of the body of the lower jaw, and anastomoses with branches of the sublingual and inferior dental arteries.182 OCCIPITAL ARTERY. The Masseteric branch is distributed to the masseter and buccinator muscles. The Inferior labial branch is distributed to the muscles and integument of the lower lip. The Inferior coronary runs along the edge of the lower lip, close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. The Superior coronary follows the same course along the upper lip, inosculating with the opposite superior coronary artery. The Lateralis nasi is distributed to the ala and septum of the nose. The Inosculations of the facial artery are very nume- rous : thus it anastomoses with the sublingual branch of the lingual, with the inferior dental as it escapes from the mental foramen, infra-orbital at the infra-orbital foramen, transverse facial on the side of the face, and at the angle of the eye with the nasal branch of the opthalmic artery. The Posterior branches of the external carotid {fig- 15. 15.), viz., the mastoid, posterior auricular, and occipital, are next to be dissected and studied. 4. The Mastoid artery turns downwards to be distri- buted to the sterno-mastoid muscle ; sometimes it is re- placed by two small branches. 5. The Posterior auricular artery ascends beneath the lower border of the parotid gland, and behind the concha, to be distributed to the external ear and side of the head, anastomosing with the occipital and temporal arteries: some of its branches pass through the fissures in the fibro-cartilage, to be distributed to the anterior surface of the pinna. The anterior auricular arteries are branches of the temporal. Branches. — The posterior auricular gives off but one named branch, the stylo-mastoid, which enters the stylo- mastoid foramen to be distributed to the aqueductus Fal- lopii and tympanum. 6. The Occipital artery passes backwards beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus, the trachelo-mastoid, and sterno-mastoid muscles, to the occipital groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It then ascends between the splenius and complexus muscles, and is dis-TEMPORAL ARTERY. 183 tributed upon the occiput, anastomosing with the posterior auricular and temporal arteries. Branches. — It gives off only two branches, inferior meningeal and princeps cervicis. The Inferior meningeal ascends by the side of the in- ternal jugular vein, and passes through the foramen lacerum posterius to be distributed to the dura mater. The Arteria princeps cervicis is a large but irregular branch. It descends the neck between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli, and inosculates with the profunda cervicis of the subclavian. This branch is the means of establishing a very important collateral circulation between the branches of the carotid and subclavian, in ligature of the common carotid artery. The Superior branches have now to be examined and traced throughout their course; we must commence with the two superficial arteries, the deeper ones requiring an especial dissection. 7. The Transversalis faciei (fig.l5.\7.) arises from the external carotid whilst that trunk is lodged within the parotid gland ; it crosses the masseter muscle in company with Steno’s duct, and is distributed to the muscles and integument on the side of the face. 8. The Temporal artery (fig. 15. 18.) is one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid. It ascends over the root of the zygoma, and divides into three branches :— 1st. Anterior temporal, which is distributed on the front of the temple and arch of the skull, anastomosing with the supra-orbital branch of the ophthalmic artery. 2. Posterior temporal, which passes towards the back of the head, anastomosing with the posterior auricular and oc- cipital arteries. And 3. Middle temporal, which pierces the fascia, and supplies the temporal muscle. Branches.—While resting upon the zygoma, the tem- poral artery gives off several branches to the external ear, the anterior auricular arteries. It is sometimes necessary to open the temporal artery for the purpose of producing a powerful effect upon the system ; in this case, the more prominent of the two superficial vessels should be chosen. The structures to be cut through are simply the integument and superficial fascia; and the mode of arresting the flow of blood is toINTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 184 divide the cylinder of the artery completely across, so that the extremities of the vessels may be retracted within the superficial fascia. The middle coat of the artery becomes contracted by this proceeding, and is drawn within the external one. The internal maxillary artery passes inwards behind the neck of the lower jaw to the deep structures in the face ; we require, therefore, to remove several parts for the purpose of seeing it completely. To obtain a good view of the vessel, the zygoma should be sawm across close to the external ear, and the malar bone near to the orbit. Turn down the zygomatic arch with the masseter muscle. In doing this, a small artery and nerve will be seen crossing the sigmoid arch of the lower jaw, and entering the masseter muscle (the masseteric). Cut away the tendon of the temporal muscle from its insertion into the coronoid process, and turn it upwards towards its origin: some vessels will be seen entering its under surface; these are the deep temporal. Then saw the ramus of the jaw across its middle, and dislocate it from its articulation with the temporal bone. Be careful in doing this to carry the blade of the knife close to the bone, lest any branches of nerves should be injured. Next remove this portion of bone, and with it the external pterygoid muscle. The artery, toge- ther with the deep branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, will be seen lying upon the internal pterygoid. These are to be carefully freed of fat and cellular tissue, and then examined. 10. The Internal maxillary artery {Jig. 15.18 .Jig. 16. 4.) * Fig. 16. The internal maxillary artery, with its branches. No. 1. The external carotid artery. 2. The trunk of the transverseRELATIONS. BRANCHES. 185 is one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid. Commencing in the substance of the parotid gland, oppo- site the meatus auditorius externus, it first passes hori- zontally behind the neck of the lower jaw, next obliquely upwards between the two pterygoid muscles ; it then bends suddenly into the pterygo-maxillary fossa. Its course is thus resolved into three portions — 1. That situated behind the neck of the jaw, the maxillary por- tion, 4.; 2. That between the pterygoid muscles, mus- cular portion, 5.; and 3. Its bend into the pterygo-maxil- lary fossa., pterygo-maxillary portion, 6. Relations. — The maxillary portion is situated be- tween the ramus of the jaw and internal lateral ligament, lying parallel to the auricular nerve ; the pterygoid portion between the two pterygoid muscles, crossing the gustatory and dental nerves. It then makes a remarkable bend (_fig. 16.*j which projects between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and passes directly inwards to the pterygo-maxillary fossa, where it divides into its terminal branches. Internal maxillary artery.—Branches. facial artery. 3. 4. The two terminal branches of the external caro- tid. 3. The temporal artery; and 4. The internal maxillary, the first or maxillary portion of its course : the limit of this portion is marked by an arrow. 5. The second, or muscular portion, of the artery; the limits are bounded by the arrows. 6. The third, ox pterygo-maxillary portion. The branches of the maxillary portion are, 7. A tympanic branch. 8. the arteria meningea media. 9. The arteria meningea parva. 10. The inferior dental artery. The branches of the second portion are wholly muscular, the ascending ones being distributed to the temporal, and the descending to the four other muscles of the inter-maxillary^ region, viz. the two pterygoids, the masseter and buccinator. -The branches of the pterygo-maxillary portion of the artery are, 11. The superior dental artery. 12. The infra-orbital artery. 13. I he posterior palatine. 14. The spheno-palatine, or nasal. 15. The pterygo-palatine. 16. The Vidian. * The remark- able bend which the third portion of the artery makes as it turns inwards to enter the pterygo-maxillary fossa.186 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. Deep temporal branches, External pterygoid, Internal pterygoid, Masseteric, Buccal. Superior dental, 11., Infra-orbital, 12., Pterygo-palatine, 15., Spheno-palatine, 14., Posterior palatine, 13., Vidian, 16. Maxillary portion (Jiff- 16. 4.) — The Tympanic branch, 7., is very small and not likely to be seen in an ordinary dissection ; it passes into the tympanum through the fissura Glaseri. The Inferior dental, 10., descends to the dental foramen, and enters the canal of the lower jaw in company with the dental nerve. At the chin it escapes with the nerve from the mental foramen, and anastomoses with the in- ferior labial and submental branches of the facial. It supplies the teeth of the lower jaw, sending small branches along the canals in their roots. The Arteria meningea media, 8., is the great artery of the dura mater. It passes between the roots of the dental nerve, and through the foramen spinosum in the spinous process of the sphenoid, to the deep groove at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. It divides into several branches, which ramify upon the external surface of the dura mater, and anastomose with corre- sponding branches from the opposite side. The Meningea parva, 9., is a small branch which ascends to the foramen ovale, and passes into the skull to be distributed to the dura mater. Muscular portion (Jig. 16. 5.).— The distribution of the muscular branches is implied in their names, sup- plying the five muscles of the temporo-maxillary region. Pterygo-maxillary portion (Jig- 16. c.)— The branches of this portion of the artery cannot be seen at the present stage of the preparation; they must be left until the dissection has proceeded more deeply. The Superior dental branch, it., is given off from the Muscular portion (Jig. 16. 5.) Pterygo-maxillary portion (fig. 16.- 6.)187 BRANCHES. artery just as it makes its remarkable bend# inwards. It passes down upon the posterior surface of the superior maxillary bone, and sends its branches through several small foramina to supply the posterior teeth of the upper jaw. The Infra-orbital, 12., would appear, from its size, to be the proper continuation of the artery. It is, however, more convenient to consider it simply as a branch. It runs along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxil- lary nerve, sending branches downwards through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous lining of the antrum and teeth of the upper jaw, and escapes from the infra- orbital foramen, inosculating with the facial and transverse facial arteries. The Pterygo-palatine, 15., is a small branch which passes through the pterygo-palatine canal, and supplies the upper part of the pharynx. The Spheno-palatine, 14., or nasal, enters the spheno- palatine foramen with the nasal branches of Meckel’s ganglion, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the nares. The Posterior palatine branch, 13., descends along the posterior palatine canal, in company with the posterior palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion. It is distributed to the palate. The Vidian branch, 16., passes backwards along the pterygoid canal, and is distributed to the sheath of the Vidian nerve. The external carotid artery should now be divided near its origin, and drawn upwards, or removed altogether. The ramus of the jaw should also be sawn across, and dissected away from the insertion of the internal pterygoid muscle and pterygo-maxillary ligament, in order to bring into view the side of the pharynx. The rest of the parotid gland may then be removed from its situation, and its deep relations attentively observed. We shall thus be enabled to trace the course of the remaining branch of the external carotid artery, and see the relations of the internal carotid. The Ascending pharyngeal artery (fg. 15. 16.) arises from the external carotid, near to its bifurcation, and ascends by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, where it divides into branches which enter the fora- mina in that region to be distributed to the dura mater. It supplies the pharynx.188 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The Internal carotid artery ascends perpendicu- larly from its bifurcation, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, to the carotid foramen in the petrous bone. It then curves inwards along the carotid canal, passes forwards by the side of the sella turcica, and at the anterior clinoid process pierces the dura mater and divides into three branches. Its course is naturally divided into four portions : — 1. Cervical, situated in the neck; 2. Petrous, occupying the carotid canal; 3. Cavernous, lying by the side of the sella turcica; and 4?. Cerebral, after it has pierced the dura mater. Relations. — The cervical portion rests upon the rectus anticus major, and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and partly on the internal jugular vein, lingual and pneumogastric nerves. It is crossed behind by the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves. To its inner side it has the pharynx, tonsil, and ascending pharyngeal artery ; to its outer side the jugular vein, commencement of the eighth pair, and lingual nerve. And it is crossed in front by the stylo glossus and stylo- pharyngeus muscles, and glosso-pharyngeal nerve, being covered in by the parotid gland. Plan of the relations of the cervical portion of the internal carotid artery. In Front. Parotid-gland. Stylo-glossus muscle. Stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Superior cervical ganglion. Pneumo-gastric nerve. Pharyngeal nerve. Superior laryngeal nerve. Lingual nerve, ltectus anticus major. Internally. Pharynx. Tonsil. Externally. Jugular vein. Ascending pha- ryngeal artery. Internal Carotid Artery. Lingual nerve. Behind.189 internal jugular vein. The Petrous portion is in relation with the carotid plexus, and is covered by the Casserian ganglion. The Cavernous portion is placed to the inner side of the cavernous sinus, and is crossed by the nerves passing to the orbit, viz. third, fourth, ophthalmic branch of the fifth and sixth, and branches of the sympathetic. The Cerebral portion is lodged in the fissure of Sylvius. Branches. — There are no branches given off by the cervical portion of the internal carotid: from the other portions are derived the following : — Internal Carotid.— Branches. . Petrous portion Cavernous portion Cerebral portion Tympanic. Anterior meningeal, Ophthalmic, Anterior cerebral, Middle cerebral, _ Posterior communicating. The Tympanic is a small branch which enters the tym- panum through a minute foramen in the carotid canal. 'The Anterior meningeal is distributed to the dura mater and Casserian ganglion. The Ophthalmic artery enters the orbit through the foramen opticum, to be distributed to tbe globe of the eye and surrounding structures. Its course and branches are described with the dissection of the orbit. The three remaining arteries are described with the membranes of the brain, Chapter VI. The Veins of the head and neck are the external and internal jugular. The former receives its blood from the i temporal, internal maxillary, and auricular veins, and ! from the superficial parts of the neck, and descends !. obliquely backwards between the platysma myoides and | sterno-mastoid muscle, to terminate in the subclavian I vein behind the clavicle. The Internal jugular vein commences at the jugular • fossa, in the foramen lacerum posterius, where it receives the blood from the sinuses in the interior of the cranium. It descends the neck at first behind, and then to the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and continues its course within the sheath of the common carotid, and,SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 190 lying to its outer side, to the inner border of the first rib, where it unites with the subclavian vein, and forms the vena innominata. On the left side the vein, at its ter- mination, advances rather in front of the artery: on the right it diverges from the artery, leaving a triangular space between them. The internal jugular receives the veins from the deep parts at the base of the skull and neck, and is joined in the submaxillary space by a com- municating branch from thq external jugular, the facial, and occipital veins. Along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle is a small vein, formed by branches from the superficial parts on the front of the neck. It is often of large size, and is named anterior jugular. Subclavian Artery. The Subclavian artery, on the right side (fig. 17. 5.) arises from the arteria in- nominata, 4., opposite the sterno-clavicular articula- tion, and on the left, 10., from the arch of the aorta, 2. The right is consequently shorter than the left, and situated on a plane super- ficial to it. The course of the artery is divided into three por- tions, first, second, and third. The First portion on the right side, 5., passes ob- liquely outwards to the in- * Fig. 17. The arch of the aorta, with its branches, and the course of the subclavian arteries. No. 1. The ascending aorta. 2. Its arch. S. The descending aorta. 4. The arteria innominata. 5. The right subclavian, the first, or obliquely ascending portion of its course. 6. The second, or transverse portion. 7. The third, or obliquely descending portion. 8. The right carotid artery. 9. The left carotid. 10. The left sub- clavian artery; the first, or perpendicular portion. 11. The second, or transverse. 12. The third, or oblique portion. 13. The rightCOURSE. RELATIONS. 191 nev border of the scalenus anticus. On the left side, 10., it ascends perpendicularly to the inner border of the scalenus anticus; the remainder of the course of the artery is the same on both sides. The Second portion, 6. ll., passes transversely outwards between the two scaleni. The Third portion, 7.12., downwards and outwards over the first rib. The relations of the first portion are best seen in the accompanying plan. Right Side (oblique). Infront. Parallel. Vena innominata. Crossing it. Pneumogastric nerve. Cardiac nerves. Phrenic nerve. Behind. Crossing. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Left Side (perpendicular). In front. Pleura. Parallel. Pneumogastric nerve. Cardiac nerves. Phrenic nerve. Crossing. Vena innominata. Behind. Pleura. Parallel. Thoracic duct. From the superficial and deep position of the two ar- teries, the right lies in front of the pleura which covers its posterior surface, whilst the left is situated near the vertebral column, behind the pleura. The innominata vein is in front of the artery on both sides, lying parallel to it on the right, and crossing it at the upper part on the left. In consequence of the oblique direction of the artery on the right side, it is crossed by the pneumogastric, 13., :ardiac, and phrenic nerves, and the recurrent winds iround it, whilst on the left side they all run parallel vith it. The thoracic duct is placed immediately behind md parallel with the first portion of the artery on the eft side. The Second portion of the artery is situated between ncumogastric nerve, giving off the recurrent* around the subclavian rtery. 14. The left pneumogastric, sending its recurrent branch * round the arch of the aorta. * * The two recurrent laryngeal erves.SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. — BRANCHES. 192 the two scaleni muscles, and is separated from the sub- clavian vein by the scalenus anticus. The Third portion has the brachial plexus almost in contact with it above, the subclavian vein in front, and the first rib below. Branches. — The Branches of the subclavian artery {Jig. 18.) are given off from its Jirst portion; they are five in number. The Vertebral artery {Jig. 18.6.) ascends through the * Fig. 18. The subclavian artery, with its branches. No. 1. The arteria innominata, dividing into, 2. The right common carotid artery, and 3. The right subclavian artery, the first part of its course, from which all the branches are given off. 4. Ihe second part of its course. 5. The third part of its course. 6. 7. The two visceral branches of the subclavian artery, 6. The vertebral, 7. The inferior thyroid. 8. The thyroid axis, giving off its four branches. 9, 10. The two cervical branches of the subclavian; —9. 1 lie cervicalis superficialis, 10. The cervicalis profunda. 11. 12. The two scapular branches;—11. The posterior scapular, 12. The supra-scapular. 13. 14. The two thoracic branches ; — 13. The internal mammary artery, 14. The superior intercostal. ' Inferior thyroid, 7. ) Supra-scapular, 12. ) Posterior scapular, 11. _ Superficialis cervicisj 9. foramina in the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae, excepting the last -, then winds backwards around 7 the articulating process of f the atlas, and piercing the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen mag- num. The two arteries unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii to form the ba- silar artery, which runs for- wards to its anterior border, and divides into four terminal branches.VERTEBRAL ARTERY. BRANCHES. 193 The branches of the Vertebral artery are, — Branches. 'Lateral spinal, Anterior spinal, Vertebral- Posterior spinal, Posterior meningeal, Inferior cerebellar. ' Transverse, Basilar - Superior cerebellar, _ Posterior cerebral. The Lateral spinal branches enter the intervertebral foramina, and are distributed to the dura mater of the spinal cord. The Anterior spinal is a small branch which unites with its fellow of the opposite side, on the front of the medulla oblongata. The artery formed by the union of these two vessels descends along the anterior aspect of the spinal cord, to which it distributes branches as far as the cauda equina. The Posterior spinal is a small branch running down the posterior surface of the spinal cord, parallel with its : fellow of the opposite side, and distributing branches as far as the cauda equina. The Posterior meningeal is a small branch to the dura mater, lining the inferior occipital fossae. The Inferior cerebellar artery is distributed to the under surface of the cerebellum. Basilar Artery. — Branches. The Transverse branches of the basilar artery supply ! the pons Varolii, and adjacent parts of the brain. The Superior cerebellar and Posterior cerebral arteries are the terminal branches of the basilar. The superior cerebellar is distributed to the upper surface of the cere- bellum, and the posterior cerebral to the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, inosculating on the corpus callosum with the anterior cerebral arteries. They are separated from each other at their commencement by the third nerve. The Thyroid axis (fig. 18. 8.) is a short trunk which immediately divides into its four branches. I he Inferior thyroid artery (fig. 18. 7.) passes be- K194- thyroid AXIS BRANCHES. hind the sheath of the carotid vessels, to the inferior part of the thyroid gland, to which it is distributed. It also gives branches to the trachea, lower part of the larynx and oesophagus. It is in relation with the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, which rests upon it. I he Surra-scapular artery, 12., (transversalis hu- meri) passes obliquely backwards behind the clavicle, and across the ligament of the notch, to the supra_spinatus fossa. It is distributed to the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and inosculates with the posterior scapular, and beneath the acromion process with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The Posterior scapular artery, 11., (transversalis colli,) passes transversely across the subclavian triangle at the root of the neck, to the superior angle of the scapula. It then descends along the posterior border to its inferior angle, where it inosculates with the subscapular artery, a branch of the axillary. Relations. — It passes behind, and sometimes in front of the scalenus anticus, between the nerves forming the brachial plexus, and beneath the levator anguli scapulae rhomboideus minor and major muscles. Branches. — Some ascending branches are given off at the superior angle of the scapula, which inosculate with the profunda cervicis. The Superficialis cervicis artery, 9., is a small vessel, which ascends upon the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and distri- butes branches to the muscles on the anterior aspect of the vertebral column in the neck. The Profunda cervicis, 10., passes backwards be- tween the transverse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, and then ascends the back part of the neck, between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli mus- cles. It inosculates above with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery, and below with the posterior sca- pular. The Superior intercostal artery, 14., descends be- hind the pleura upon the necks of the two first ribs. Its branches supply the two first intercostal spaces. The Internal mammary artery, 13., descends by the side of the sternum, resting upon the costal cartilages,INTERNAL MAMMARY. BRANCHES. 195 k 2 to the diaphragm : it then pierces the anterior fibres of the diaphragm, and enters the sheath of the rectus, where it inosculates with the epigastric artery, a branch of the external iliac. The Branches of the internal mammary are,— Anterior intercostal — mammary. Comes nervi phrenici, Mediastinal, Pericardiac, Musculo-phrenic. The Anterior intercostals supply the intercostal spaces on the front part of the chest, and inosculate with the aortic intercostal arteries. They give off several large branches to the mammary gland, which anastomose freely with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery. The Comes nervi phrenici is a long and slender branch which accompanies the phrenic nerve. The Mediastinal and pericardiac branches are small vessels distributed to the anterior mediastinum and pericardium. The Musculo-phrenic artery winds along the attach- ment of the diaphragm to the ribs, supplying it with branches. If we now proceed to an analysis of the distribution of the branches of the subclavian artery, we shall find that two, Internal mammary {Jig. 18. 13.), Superior intercostal, 14., are distributed to the parietes of the thorax; two, Supra-scapular, 12., Posterior scapular, 11., are distributed to the shoulder ; two others, Superficialis cervicis, 9., Profunda cervicis, 10., supply the neck; and, of the remaining two, one is dis- tributed to the thyroid gland, Inferior thyroid, 7., and the other to the spinal cord and brain, Vertebral, 6.196 NERVES OF THE NECK. The operation for ligature of the subclavian artery has been already described. This operation can only be per- formed in the third part of its course. The first part lies too deeply, is surrounded with important relations, and is giving off the five branches; and the second lies behind the scalenus anticus muscle. The third part of the artery is, however, comparatively super- ficial, and the operation may be performed upon it with perfect security. Nerves of the Neck. Having now considered all the vessels of the neck, we must next turn our attention to the nerves which occupy this region ; they are the eighth and ninth pairs of cere- bral, the sympathetic, and the eight cervical nerves. The Eighth pair (yf^.19.) of cerebral nerves consists of the glosso-pharyngeal, 6.,pneu- mogastric or vagus, 10., and spinal accessory, 21. They arise from the respiratory tract of Bell, the two former, 5. 8., between the corpus olivare and restiforme; the latter, 20., from the spinal cord, opposite the fourth cervical vertebra: hence its cognomen, spinal. The spinal accessory ascends from its origin between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, to join the # Fig. 19. Origin and distribution of the eighth pair of nerves of the left side. No. 1. The medulla oblongata. 2. The corpus pyramidale of the left side. 3. The corpus olivare. 4. The corpus restiforme. 5. TGLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. 197 K 3 other two, and the three together escape from the skull, through the foramen lacerum posterius, lying to the inner side, and rather in front of the jugular vein. The Glosso-pharyngeal nerve presents agangliform swelling, the ganglion of Andersch +, jig. 19. 6. (gan- glion petrosum), upon that portion of its cylinder which is situated in the jugular fossa. It then passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and descends along its in- ferior border to the hyo-glossus, beneath which it passes to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the tongue, and to the mucous glands of the mouth and tonsils. Its Branches may be thus arranged: — Communicating branches with the , . Facial, Pneumogastric, Spinal accessory, Sympathetic. Tympanic, Muscular, Pharyngeal. The Branches of communication are common to the facial, eighth pair, and sympathetic; they form a com- plicated plexus at the base of the skull. origin of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 6. The ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, or of Andersch. 7. A branch from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve to the pharyngeal plexus. 8. The origin of the pneumogastric nerve. 9. The upper ganglion of the pneumo- gastric. 10. The lower, or plexiform ganglion of the nerve. 11. I he pharyngeal nerve, descending to form the pharyngeal plexus*. 12. The superior laryngeal nerve. 13. A branch to the pharyngeal plexus. 14. Cardiac nerves. 15. The recurrent laryngeal nerve. IG. Cardiac branches from the recurrent. 17. (Esophageal plexus. 18. Branches to the stomach. 19. A branch which joins the solar plexus. 20. The origin of the spinal accessory nerve. 21. Its branches to the sterno-mastoid muscle. 22. Terminal branches to the trapezius. 23. The origin of the facial nerve, p. The branches forming the pulmonary plexuses. •f Charles Samuel Andersch. Tractatus Anatomico-Physiologica de Nervis Corporis Humani Aliquibus, 1797.PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 198 The Tympanic is a remarkable branch described by Jacobson, and hence called Jacobson's nerve. It arises from the ganglion of Andersch, and passes through a small canal in the petrous bone to tbe internal wall of the tympanum, where it divides into six branches, which are thus distributed : — 1. To the fenestra rotunda, 2. To the fenestra ovalis, 3. To the Eustachian tube, 4. To the carotid plexus, 5. To the cranial branch of the Vidian, 6. To the otic ganglion. These filaments are extremely small, and cannot be seen in the adult tympanum, unless by a lucky section. They are best dissected in the ear of the foetus. In the cat they are very distinct and easily demonstrated. The Muscular branch divides into filaments, which are distributed to the stylo-pharyngeus and to the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscle. The Pharyngeal branches, 7., are two or three fila- ments sent to the side of the pharynx and pharyngeal plexus. The Pneumogastric nerve (vagus) forms a short rounded ganglion (fig. 19. 9.) as it passes through the foramen lacerum posterius. Having escaped at this open- ing, it presents a second gangliform swelling, io., nearly an inch in length, and surrounded by an irregular plexus of white nerves, which communicate with each other, with the other divisions of the eighth pair, and with the trunk of the pneumogastric below the ganglion. This second, or plexiform ganglion (ganglion of the superior laryngeal branch of Sir Astley Cooper), is situated, at first, behind the internal carotid artery, and then between that vessel and the internal jugular vein. The pneumo- gastric nerve then descends the neck within the sheath of the carotid vessels, lying behind and between the artery and vein to the root of the neck. Here the course of the nerve at opposite sides becomes different. The right passes between the subclavian artery and vein to the posterior mediastinum, then behind the root199 BRANCHES. of the lung to the oesophagus, which it accompanies to the stomach, lying on its posterior aspect. The left enters the chest parallel with the left sub- clavian artery, crosses the arch of the aorta, and descends behind the root of the lung, and along the anterior surface of the oesophagus, to the stomach. The two nerves communicate freely with each other on the stomach, and with the solar plexus. The Branches of the pneumogastric nerve are the fol- lowing : — Communicating branches with the Facial, Glosso-pharyngeal, Spinal accessory, Lingual, Sympathetic. Pharyngeal, Superior laryngeal, Cardiac, Inferior or recurrent laryngeal, Pulmonary anterior, Pulmonary posterior, CEsophageal, Gastric. The Branches of communication are the same, with the addition of the lingual, as those we before noticed in connection with the glosso-pharyngeal. The Pharyngeal nerve {fig. 19. 11.) arises from the pneumogastric, close to the foramen lacerum posterius, and descends behind the internal carotid artery to the upper border of the middle constrictor, upon which it forms the pharyngeal plexus {fig. 19.*), assisted by branches from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic. I he Superior laryngeal nerve {fig. 19. 12.) arises from the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric, of which it appears almost a continuation ; hence the ganglion has been named by Sir Astley Cooper the “ ganglion of the superior laryngeal branch." The nerve descends behind K 4>200 LARYNGEAL NERVES. the internal carotid artery to the opening in the thyro- hyoidean membrane, through which it passes with the superior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of larynx, communicating on the arytenoid muscle, and behind the cricoid cartilage, with the recur- rent laryngeal nerve. Behind the internal carotid it gives off the external laryngeal branch, which sends a branch to the pharyngeal plexus, and then descends to supply the inferior constrictor and crico-thyroid muscles and thyroid gland, and communicates by two or three branches with the recurrent laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves. Mr. John Hilton, demonstrator of anatomy at Guy’s Hospital, who has made some able dissections of the nerves of the larynx, of which we refer the student to a masterly description in the 2d vol. of the Guy’s Hospital Reports, concludes that the superior laryngeal nerve is the nerve of sensation to the larynx, being distributed solely (with the exception of its external laryngeal branch) to the mucous membrane, cellular tissue, and glands. If this fact be taken in connection with the observations of Sir Astley Cooper, and the dissections of the origin of the nerve by Mr. Edward Cock, we shall perceive that, both in the ganglionic origin of the nerve, and in its dis- tribution, we have striking evidence of its sensitive func- tion. The recurrent, or superior laryngeal nerve, is the proper motor nerve, and is distributed to the muscles of the larynx. The Cardiac branches, 14., one or two in number, cross the lower part of the common carotid to com- municate with the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, for the supply of the heart. The Recurrent laryngeal, or inferior laryngeal nerve {fig- 19. 15.), curves around the subclavian artery on the right {fig. 17. 13.*), and the arch of the aorta on the left side {fig. 17.14.*). It ascends in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and piercing the lower fibres of the inferior constrictor muscle, enters the larynx close to the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage. It is distributed to all the muscles of the larynx, with the exception of the crico- thyroid, and communicates with the superior laryngeal nerve. As it curves around the subclavian artery and201 LINGUAL NERVES. k 5 aorta, it gives branches {fig. 19. 16.) to the heart and root of the lungs ; and, as it ascends the neck, it gives branches to the oesophagus and trachea, and communicates with the external laryngeal nerve and sympathetic. In function it is the proper motor nerve of the larynx. The remaining branches of the pneumogastric have been described with the anatomy of the thorax, page 136. The Spinal accessory nerve, on escaping from the foramen lacerum posterius, passes backwards behind the internal jugular vein, and descends obliquely to the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which it pierces {fig. 19. 21.). It then passes obliquely across the side of the neck to the trapezius muscle, to which it is distributed, 22. It communicates, like the preceding nerves, with the other branches of the eighth pair, and with the sym- pathetic. Its branches supply the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. The Lingual nerve (ninth, hypo-glossal), the true motor nerve of the tongue, arises by several filaments from the side of the corpus pyramidale of the medulla oblongata, and escapes from the skull through the ante- rior condyloid foramen. It then passes forwards behind the internal jugular vein, and descends along its outer border to a point parallel with the angle of the lower jaw. It next curves inwards around the occipital artery, with which it forms a loop, and crosses the lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle to the genio-hyo-glossus, in which it terminates. It is distributed to the muscles of the tongue, and principally to the genio-hyo-glossus. It is separated from the lingual artery by the hyo-glossus muscle, and, while resting on this muscle, presents a flattened appearance. The Branches of the lingual nerve are, — Communicating branches with the Pneumogastric, Sympathetic. Descendens noni, Hyoidean branch, Communicating filaments with the Gustatory nerve.202 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The Communications between the lingual nerve, the eighth pair, and the sympathetic, are situated at the base of the skull, as we have before noted for the divisions of the eighth pair. The Descendens noni is a long slender nerve which quits the lingual just as it about to form its arch around the occipital artery, and descends upon the sheath of the carotid vessels. Just below the middle of the neck, it forms a loop with a long branch (communicans noni) from the second and third cervical nerves. From the convexity of this loop, branches are sent to the depressor muscles of the larynx. If the descendens noni be traced to its connection with the lingual nerve, and examined with care, it will be found to be formed by two filaments, one from the lingual, the other, of larger size, from the first and second cervical nerves.* The Hyoidean branch is a small branch distributed to the insertions of the depressor muscles of the larynx. The Communicating filaments with the gustatory nerve are two or three small branches which ascend upon the anterior part of the hyo-glossus muscle, and join corre- sponding branches sent downwards by the gustatory. The Sympathetic nerve, in the neck, descends from the carotid foramen in the temporal bone, behind the in- ternal carotid artery and sheath of the common carotid and internal jugular vein, to the head of the first rib, where it forms the first dorsal ganglion, and becomes thoracic. In its course downwards it rests upon the rectus anticus major and longus colli muscles, and forms three ganglia,— superior, middle, and inferior. The Superior cervical ganglion is long and fusiform, extending from near the carotid foramen to opposite the bifurcation of the common carotid. All the ganglia and nerves of the sympathetic present a peculiar reddish-grey appearance and pearly lustre. Since the time of Bichat, the ganglia have been regarded as so man)'- distinct centres, from which nerves are given off in all directions. These directions may, for the con- venience of arrangement and description, be reduced to * The connection between the lingual and cervical nerves is subject to much irregularity.203 CERVICAL GANGLIA. BRANCHES. k 6 four, viz. superior, inferior, external, and internal. The superior branches communicate with the ganglion above. The inferior, with the ganglion below. The external, with the spinal nerves at their exit from the interver- tebral foramina. The internal branches, however, are distributed to the viscera. The Branches of the superior cervical ganglion are, therefore, superior, inferior, external, and internal: to which may be added, as proper to this ganglion, anterior. The Superior branch enters the carotid canal and divides into two branches, which form frequent communications with each other (carotid plexus), and are ultimately dis- tributed with the terminal branches of the internal carotid artery. They communicate also with the sixth nerve in the cavernous sinus. The carotid plexus, formed by the communicating fila- ments passing between these two branches, is augmented by the reception of a branch from the Vidian, and another from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. The Inferior branch, often double, communicates with the middle cervical ganglion : it also sends filaments to the third and fourth cervical nerves. The External branches are the branches of communica- tion with the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and lingual nerves ; also with the first and second cervical nerves. The Internal branches are, pharyngeal, filaments com- municating with the pharyngeal plexus upon the middle constrictor muscle; laryngeal, to communicate with the external laryngeal nerve; and a long branch, which de- scends to the thorax, and is distributed to the heart; the Superior cardiac nerve (n. superficialis cordis). The Anterior branches are small soft filaments called nervimolles, which accompany the ramifications of the external carotid artery. The Middle cervical ganglion is of small size, and situated upon the inferior thyroid artery (hence, thyroid ganglion), opposite the fifth or sixth vertebra: sometimes it is behind the artery, or altogethA’ wanting. Branches. — Superior, communicating with the first cervical ganglion.CERVICAL NERVES. 204 Inferior, communicating with the third cervical gan- glion. External, communicating with the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves. Internal, a large branch which descends to the heart; the Middle cardiac nerve (n. cardiacus magnus). The Inferior cervical ganglion, of a semilunar form, is situated immediately behind the vertebral artery, sup- ported by the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Branches—Superior, to communicate with the second cervical ganglion. Inferior, to communicate with the first dorsal ganglion. External, to communicate with the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves; and one or two small filaments which ascend along the vertebral artery. Internal, several branches to communicate with the recurrent nerve ; and a branch to the heart, the Inferior cardiac nerve. The cardiac nerves are very irregular, both in origin and course: they cross the innominata artery on the right, and the left carotid on the left side, and pass in front of the trachea to the base of the heart. The Cervical nerves are eight in number, and increase in size from above downwards. The first (sub-occipital) passes out of the spinal canal between the occipital bone and the atlas ; the last, between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. Each nerve, at its escape from the intervertebral foramen, divides into an anterior and pos- terior branch. The anterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves form the cervical plexus; the posterior branches, the posterior cervical plexus. The anterior branches of the four inferior cervical and first dorsal form the brachial plexus. The Cervical plexus is formed by loops of communi- cation which pass from one nerve to another: the com- municating branch between the first and second nerves is very small ; the others have several communicating branches which are larger in size. The plexus rests upon the levator anguli scapulas and posterior scalenus muscles.CERVICAL PLEXUS. — BRANCHES. 205 Its Branches may be arranged into three groups, as- cending, descending superficial, and descending deep. Superficialis colli, Ascending Auricularis magnus, Occipitalis minor. ” Acromiales, Descending { Superficial Deep Claviculares. Communicans noni, Phrenic, Muscular. The Superficialis colli {fig- Id. 11.) crosses the sterno- mastoid muscle obliquely, and divides into two branches; one is distributed to the integument on the side of the neck, the other ascends to the submaxillary region, and forms a plexus with the cervical branches of the facial. The Auricularis magnus {fig. 14. 13.), the largest of the three, curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and ascends by the side of the jugular vein to the external ear, supplying that organ and the integument over the parotid gland and side of the face. It communicates in the parotid gland with the facial nerve. The Occipitalis minor {fig. 14. 14.) ascends along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is dis- tributed to the integument on the posterior part of the head. The Claviculares {fig- 14. 15.) and acromiales are several large branches which descend over the clavicle, and are distributed to the integument of the chest and shoulder. The Communicans noni is a long branch formed by filaments from the second and third cervical nerve: it descends and forms a loop with the descendens noni over the sheath of the carotid vessels. The Phrenic nerve is formed by filaments from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, receiving also a branch from the sympathetic. It descends to the root of the neck, resting upon the scalenus anticus muscle, then crosses the first portion of the subclavian artery, and enters the chest between it and the subclavian vein. Within the chest it passes through the middle mediastinum,DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 206 between the pleura and pericardium to the diaphragm to which it is distributed, and communicates in the abdomen with the phrenic and solar plexus, particularly on the left side. The left phrenic nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side. Posterior cervical plexus. — The posterior branches of the first, second, and third cervical nerves, send branches of communication between each other, which form a small plexus beneath the complexus muscle. All the branches of the posterior cervical plexus are distributed to the mus- cles on the back part of the neck, with the exception of a large ascending branch of the second cervical nerve, the occipitalis major. This nerve pierces the complexus, and ascends with the occipital artery, to be distributed to the integument on the posterior part of the head. It supplies no muscles. The Orbit. The student should now direct his attention to the anatomy of the orbit, and of the fifth pair of nerves. To open the orbit (the calvarium and brain having been removed) the frontal bone must be sawn through at the inner extremity of the orbital ridge ; and externally, at its outer extremity. The roof of the orbit may then be comminuted with the hammer; a process easily performed, on account of the thinness of the orbital plate of the frontal bone and lesser wing of the sphenoid. The superciliary portion of the orbit may now be driven forwards by a smart blow, and the broken fragments of the roof of the orbit removed. The perios- teum will then be exposed unbroken and undisturbed. Remove the periosteum from the whole of the upper surface of the exposed orbit, and the muscles, vessels, and nerves may then be examined. The contents of the orbit are, 1st. The globe of the eye appended to the extremity of the optic nerve. 2d. The six muscles which move the eyeball, four recti and two obliqui, and the elevator muscle of the upper eyelid. 3d. The ophthalmic artery, with its numerous bi’anches. 4th. The ophthalmic vein with its tributaries. 5th. The nerves, which consist of three branches of the ophthalmic — frontal, lachrymal, and nasal; the third, fourth, and sixth, to the muscles and the ciliary ganglion with its branches. 6th. The lachrymal gland.CONTENTS OE THE ORBIT. 207 We shall pursue the plan of the examination of the orbit, that we have heretofore followed in the examination of the neck. Studying the muscles and the more pro- minent relations of the various structures on the one side, and the vessels and nerves on the opposite. In the middle line is the levator palpebrae muscle, and resting upon it the frontal nerve, with its accompanying artery, the supra-orbital. To the inner side is the obliquus superior, and running along its border the fourth nerve posteriorly, and the infra-trochlear branch in front. To the outer side is the upper border of the external rectus supporting the lachrymal artery and nerve, and in front the lachrymal gland. If now the levator palpebrae muscle, and with it the frontal nerve and artery be divided through the middle and turned aside, the superior rectus will be seen oc- cupying the middle place, and if the obliquus superior be also divided and its ends thrown aside, the upper margin of the internal rectus will occupy the inner side supporting the infra-trochlear nerve. Next divide the superior rectus through the middle, and draw its ends asunder, in doing which some branches of the third nerve may be seen entering its under surface, and a third plane will be brought into view. This requires to be freed of a large quantity of fat, before the structures situated in it can be fully seen. The student must work cautiously and unweariedly, until he has removed every particle of this fat, which however is not difficult to do from its being contained in areolae of loose cellular tissue. In the middle line he will now perceive the optic nerve, crossed from without inwards by the ophthalmic artery and nasal nerve, and having to its outer side the ascending branch of the third nerve, the ciliary ganglion with its branches, the ciliary arteries, and a little more externally, in contact with the external rectus muscle, the sixth nerve. Next divide the optic nerve through its middle, and draw it forwards, when a layer will be observed, which is formed by the inferior rectus muscle supporting the long branch of the third nerve in the middle line; and in front, the inferior oblique muscle connected with the globe of the eye.STRUCTURES IN THE ORBIT. 208 A tabular arrangement of these structures will pro- bably enable the student to learn their respective relations with more facility. The plan represents the right orbit. Internal. Fourth nerve. Supra-trochlear nerve. Superior oblique. Infra-trochlear nerve. First plane. Middle. Frontal nerve. Supra-orbital artery. Levator palpebras. External. Lachrymal nerve. Lachrymal artery. Lachrymal gland. Second plane. Superior rectus. Branches of third nerve. u o CJ C Third plane. Ophthalmic artery. Nasal nerve. f ciliary ganglion. Optic Nerve. -{ ciliary nerves. f ciliary arteries. Globe of the eye. 1 o C cl . to a .E s ^3 n3 S *- a ~ ■r — 3 . o o o > *■> u " cs c c •5 3 X X i/5 S Fourth plane. Inferior oblique branch of third nerve. Inferior oblique. Inferior rectus. The student should now commence the examination of the muscles of the orbit; and, in order to render them tense and more easy of dissection, he should inject the globe of the eye with tallow or wax. This is easily done by pushing a probe through the optic nerve into the globe of the eye, in order to break down the cribriform plate of the sclerotic coat, and then inserting an injecting pipe. The Muscles of the orbit are seven : — Levator palpebrae, Superior rectus, Inferior rectus, External rectus, Internal rectus, Superior oblique, Inferior oblique. The Levator palpebra arises from the common tendon. This tendon is common to all the muscles of the orbit, with the exception of the inferior oblique, and is attachedMUSCLES OE THE ORBIT. 209 to the bones immediately around the optic foramen. The muscle is inserted into the tarsal cartilage of the upper eyelid. The Superior rectus arises from the common tendon, and is inserted into the upper surface of the globe of the eye. The Internal rectus arises from the common tendon, and is inserted into the outer surface of the globe of the eye. The External rectus arises by two heads, one from the common tendon, the other from the edge of the greater ala of the sphenoid bone. It is inserted into the outer surface of the globe of the eye. The Inferior rectus arises from the common tendon, and is inserted into the under surface of the globe of the eye. The Obliquus superior arises from the common tendon, and runs forwards to the pulley beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone. Its tendon is thence reflected to its insertion upon the posterior and external surface of the globe of the eye, beneath the superior rectus. IThe Inferior oblique arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and passes outwards beneath the inferior rectus and eyeball, to be inserted into its posterior and external surface beneath the external i rectus. Actions.— The levator palpebrae raises the upper eye- lid. The four recti, acting singly, pull the eyeball in the four directions of upwards, downwards, inwards, and out- wards. Acting by pairs, they carry the eyeball in the diagonal of these directions, viz. upwards and inwards, upwards and outwards, downwards and inwards, or down- wards and outwards. Acting all together, they retract ! the globe within the orbit, as occurs in cholera. The superior oblique muscle, acting alone, rotates the globe inwards and forwards, and carries the pupil outwards and downwards to the lower and outer angle of the orbit. The inferior oblique, acting alone, rotates the globe out- wards and upwards, and carries the pupil outwards and upwards to the upper and outer angle of the eye. Both muscles acting together, draw the eyeball forwards, and210 NERVES OF THE ORBIT. give the pupil that slight degree of eversion which enables it to receive the largest field of view. The opposite orbit should now be opened in the way already directed, with a view to study the distribution of the nerves and vessels. Nerves of the Orbit. The student should remove with a chisel as much of the outer wall of the orbit as possible, and break away the anterior clinoid process. Then let him remove the thin layer of dura mater that forms the outer boundary of the cavernous sinus. He will thus expose the four nerves passing by the side of the “ sella turcica ” to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. These should be separately and carefully traced through their course : they are the Third or motor oculi (fig. 21. 3.), Fourth or patheticus, 4., Ophthalmic or first division of the fifth, 13., Sixth or abducens, 6. They are placed in the above order from above down- wards, at their entrance into the cavernous sinus ; but the ophthalmic nerve soon divides into its three branches, frontal, lachrymal, and nasal, and the relative situation of the others is also changed with regard to each other. At the sphenoidal fissure, the six nerves are disposed in two sets, a superior consisting of Fourth (fig. *2,1. 4.), Frontal, 16., Lachrymal, 17., which enter the orbit above the origin of the levator palpebrae muscle ; and an inferior set, the Nasal (fig. 21. is.), Third, 3., Sixth, 6., which enter the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. While passing by the side of the sella turcica, the third (fig. 20. 5.), fourth, 6., and ophthal- * Fig. 20. A transverse section of the cavernous sinus of the right side. No. 1. The dura mater, splitting to enclose the vessels and nerves. Fig. 20.*211 OPHTHALMIC NERVE. mic, 7V nerves, are situated in the outer wall of the si- nus, 4.; the sixth, 3., and internal carotid artery, 2., being placed in the inner wall. The Ophthalmic nerve (Jig. 21. 13.Jig. 22. 2.) arises 2. The internal carotid artery. 3. The sixth nerve, receiving a branch from the sympathetic. 4. The cavernous sinus. 5. The third nerve. 6. The fourth nerve. 7. The ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. i * Fig. 21. The origin, course, and distribution of the nerves of the orbit. The pons Yarolii and medulla oblongata are in outline, and the horizontal portion of the carotid artery marks the situation of the cavernous sinus. No. 1. The pons Varolii. 2. The medulla oblongata. 3. The third nerve, arising from the crus cerebri. 7. Its ascending branch. 8. Its communication with the ciliary ganglion. 4. The fourth nerve, arising from the valve of Vieussens, immediately below the corpora quadrigemina, 9. 5. The fifth nerve, arising by two roots. 10. The posterior root from the corpus restiforme. 11. The anterior root from the corpus pyramidale. 12. The Casserian ganglion. 13. Its ophthalmic division. 14. Its superior maxillary division. 15. Its inferior maxillary division. 16. The frontal branch of the ophthalmiVnerve. 17. The lachrymal branch. 18. The nasal. 19. Its communication with the ciliary ganglion. 20. Its ciliary branches. 21. The intra-trochlear branch, given off just as the nerve enters the anterior ethmoidal foramen. 6. 6. The sixth nerve, arising from the corpus pyramidale. 22. The ciliary ganglion, giving off ciliary nerves. 23. The outline of the optic nerve. 24. The internal212 OPHTHALMIC NERVE.— BRANCHES. from the Casserian ganglion, beneath the dura mater, and passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, lying externally to the other nerves, and divides into its three branches. Previously to its division, it gives off a small recurrent nerve* *, that passes backwards between the two layers of tentorium, as far as the lateral sinus. The Branches of the ophthalmic nerve are, the Frontal, Lachrymal, Nasal. The Frontal nerve {Jiff. 21. 16.) mounts above the levator palpebrae, and runs forwards, resting upon that muscle to the supra-orbital foramen, through which it escapes upon the forehead, and supplies the integument of that region. It gives off one small branch, the supra-trochlear {Jig. 22. 4.), which passes inwards above the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and is distributed to the integu- ment at the inner angle of the eye and root of the nose. The Lachrymal nerve f {Jig. 21. 17.) is the smallest of carotid artery. 25. The corpus olivare. The arrow at 3. marks the relative situation of the four nerves of the orbit, as they enter the cavernous sinus. The third is the highest, then the fourth, next the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and then the sixth. The arrow at 6. marks the relation of the six nerves as they enter the sphenoidal fissure ; — the three superior, fourth, frontal, and lachrymal enter the orbit above the origin of the levator palpebrae ; — the three inferior, nasal, third, and sixth, pass between the two heads of the external rectus. * This recurrent nerve to the dura mater is sometimes a branch of the fourth nerve, of which distribution the author has a preparation now before him. Arnold of Heidelberg, an authority of great weight, assigns it solely to the ophthalmic, and has displayed its dis- tribution in a beautifully dissected preparation which the author has also attentively examined. It was from this preparation that his beautiful plate was drawn. •f- Mr. Swan, in his dissections of the nerves, has found the lachrymal ■nerve to be formed by a branch from the ophthalmic and one from the fourth nerve; and he describes this mode of formation as its normal origin. We have sometimes seen the lachrymal nerve arising in this manner, but more frequently proceeding directly from the ophthalmic, without any communication with the fourth nerve.FOURTH NERVE. THIRD NERVE. 213 the three. It inclines slightly outwards to the upper border of the external rectus muscle, along which it runs to the lachrymal gland and upper eyelid, to which it is distributed. A small branch pierces the malar bone, and communicates with the facial nerve. The Nasal nei've {Jig. 21. 18.) passes forwards between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, crosses the optic nerve in company with the ophthalmic artery, and enters, the anterior ethmoidal foramen (Jig. 22. 8.) imme- diately above the internal rectus. It then traverses the upper part of the ethmoid bone to the cribriform plate, and passes downwards through the most anterior of its foramina into the nose, where it divides into two branches, one supplying the mucous membrane, near the anterior openings of the nares ; the other, passing out between the fibro-cartilages, is distributed on the integument at the extremity of the nose. Branches. — Within the orbit it gives off three branches. A ganglionic branch (Jig. 22. 7.) (given or received) from the superior angle of the ciliary ganglion. One or two ciliarg filaments (Jig. 21. 20.) which leave the nerve as it crosses the optic nerve. They pierce the sclerotic, and pass between that tunic and the choroid to the iris. The Infra-trochlear (Jig. 22. 9.) is given off just as the nerve is about to enter the anterior ethmoidal foramen. It passes along the superior border of the internal rectus to the inner angle of the eye, where it is distributed. The Fourth nerve (Jig. 21. 4.) (patheticus), the smallest of the cerebral nerves, arises from the valve of Vieussens, and enters the cavernous sinus through a canal in the tentorium, close to the opening which trans- mits the fifth nerve. It is at first placed below the third nerve, but ascends above it as it passes forwards and crosses the levator palpebrae to be distributed on the orbital surface of the superior oblique muscle. 1 he Ihird nerve (Jig.21.3.) (motor oculi) arises from the crus cerebri, and enters the cavernous sinus by an open- ing in the dura mater, close to the posterior clinoid process. It then descends to the space between the two heads of the external rectus, and, entering the orbit, divides intoSIXTH NERVE CILIARY GANGLION. 214 two branches, a superior and an inferior branch : it also communicates with the ciliary ganglion by means of a short trunk. The Superior branch, 7., mounts above the optic nerve to supply the superior rectus, levator palpebrse, and internal rectus. The Inferior branch runs forwards upon the inferior rectus muscle, and is distributed to it and the inferior oblique. The Ganglionic branch, 8., short and thick, passes to the inferior angle of the ciliary ganglion. The Sixth nerve (fig. 21. 6.) (abducens) arises from the upper part of the corpus pyramidale. It pierces the dura mater on the basilar process of the sphenoid bone, and enters the cavernous sinus behind the ophthalmic nerve, by which it is concealed in its whole course. Passing between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, it soon enters its substance, and is distributed to that muscle. It is the only nerve situated in the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. Branches. — The two ascending branches of the caro- tid plexus pass upwards by the side of the internal carotid artery, and communicate with this nerve in the cavernous sinus. See page 203. The Ciliary ganglion (fig. 21. 22.) (lenticular) is a small square-shaped ganglion, situated close to the outer side of the optic nerve. It receives branches at its two posterior angles, from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and inferior branch of the third nerve. Branches. — From its anterior border it gives off eight or nine filaments, which arrange themselves into two sets: a superior set pierce the sclerotic slightly above the entrance of the optic nerve, and an inferior set below it. A posterior filament is described by Arnold as passing backwards from the ganglion to the cavernous sinus, and following the course of the carotid artery to its plexus. Vessels of the Orbit. The Ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid : it enters the orbit through the foramen opticum, immediately to the outer side of the optic nerve. ItOPHTHALMIC ARTERY.— BRANCHES. 215 then crosses the optic nerve, and runs along the inner wall of the orbit to the inner angle of the eye, where it divides into two branches, the frontal and nasal: the latter inosculates very freely with the angular artery. Branches. — Its branches may be arranged into three groups; — 1st, those distributed to the circumference of the orbit; 2d. Muscular branches ; 3d. Branches supply- ing the globe of the eye. 1st. Lachrymal, Supra-orbital, Posterior ethmoidal, Anterior ethmoidal, Palpebral, Frontal, Nasal. 2d. Muscular — anterior ciliary. 3d. Ciliary, Centralis retinae. The Lachrymal is the first branch of the ophthalmic artery, and is usually given off before that artery enters the optic foramen. It follows the course of the lachrymal nerve, along the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland and upper eyelid. The Supra-orbital artery follows the course of the frontal nerve, resting on the levator palpebrae muscle : it passes through the supra-orbital foramen, and is dis- tributed to the muscles and integument of the forehead. The Ethmoidal arteries, posterior and anterior, pass through the ethmoidal foramina, and are distributed to the ethmoidal cells and nasal fossae. The Palpebral arteries, superior and inferior, encircle the eyelids to which they are distributed. The Frontal artery, one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, emerges from the orbit at its inner angle, and |! is distributed upon the middle of the forehead. The Nasal artery, the other terminal branch of the | ophthalmic, distributes a branch to the ridge of the nose, i and inosculates with the angular artery. The Muscular branches, usually two in number, supe-FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 216 rior and inferior, supply the muscles of the orbit; and upon the anterior aspect of the globe of the eye give off the anterior ciliary arteries, which pierce the sclerotic near its margin of connection with the cornea, and supply the iris. It is the congestion of these vessels that gives rise to the vascular zone around the cornea in iritis. The Ciliary arteries are divided, according to their extent, into short, long, and anterior. The Short ciliary, very numerous, pierce the sclerotic around the entrance of the optic nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary, two in number, pierce the sclerotic upon opposite sides of the globe of the eye, and pass forwards between it and the choroid to the iris to which they are distributed. The anterior have been described. The Centralis retina artery pierces the optic nerve, and passes forwards in the centre of its cylinder to the retina, where it divides into branches, which form the inner layer of that membrane. It supplies the retinae, hyaloid membrane, and capsule of the lens, by means of a branch sent forwards through the centre of the vitreous humour. The Ophthalmic vein collects the venous blood from all parts of the orbit, and forms a large trunk, which crosses the optic nerve with the ophthalmic artery, and passes between the two heads of the external rectus, to open into the cavernous sinus. Fifth Pair of Nerves. The student should now proceed to the dissection of the fifth pair of nerves. For this purpose the contents of the orbit should be entirely removed, and its external wall sawn through nearly to a level with its floor. Then reflect the dura mater from the anterior surface of the petrous bone, so as to expose the Casserian * ganglion and its three divisions. The Fifth nerve (trigeminus, trifacial) arises by two roots, one from the corpus pyramidale (Jig- 21. 11.) ; the other, 10., from the corpus restiforme. The nerve pierces * Julius Casserius was appointed to fill the Anatomical Chair in Padua, in 1609. He died in 1627.217 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. the dura mater at the insertion of the tentorium into the extremity of the petrous bone, and forms the large gan- .glion of a semilunar form called Ccisserian (Jig* 21. 12., • fig. 22. 1.). The ganglion immediately divides into the : three large nerves, the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The Ophthalmic has just been described with the con- tents of the orbit. We must now examine the maxillary nerves. The Superior maxillary nerve (fig- 22. io.) passes : forwards to the foramen rotundum, crosses the spheno- maxillary fossa, and enters the canal in the floor of the orbit, along which it runs to the infra-orbital foramen. 1 Emerging on the face, beneath the levator labii superioris i muscle, it divides into a lash of branches, 16., which are idistributed to the muscles and integument of the cheek, ind form a plexus with the facial nerve. Branches: — In the splieno-maxillary fossa. Two from Meckel's ganglion, fig. 22. 12. Orbital - - - 11. Posterior dental - - 13. In the infra-orbital canal. Middle dental - - - 14. Anterior dental - - is. On the face. Muscular 1 Cutaneous J “ - 16. The Tico branches {fig. 22. 12.) from Meckel’s ganglion ocend from that body to join the nerve, as it crosses the oheno-maxillary fossa. The Orbital branch (fig. 22.11.) enters the orbit through le spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches; xhrymal, which ascends along the outer wall of the orbit » the lachrymal gland, and communicates with the chrymal nerve; temporo-malar, which passes forwards id divides into two branches, one piercing the malar >ne, and distributed to the integument of the cheek; * LINFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 218 the other escaping through the outer wall of the orbit, to supply the temporal muscle. The Posterior dental branches {Jig. 22.13.) pass through small foramina, in the posterior surface of the superior maxillary bone, and supply the posterior teeth. The Middle and Anterior dental branches {Jig. 22. 14. 15.) descend to the teeth, the former beneath the lining membrane of the antrum, the latter through distinct canals in the walls of the bone. The Inferior maxillary nerve {Jig. 22. 17.) is the largest of the three divisions of the Casserian ganglion, and is augmented in size by the anterior root of the fifth, which passes behind the ganglion, and unites with the inferior maxillary, previously to its exit from the foramen ovale. By turning up the ganglion, this portion of the nerve may be easily seen, as a white rounded cord, altogether different in appearance and structure from the ganglion, against which it lies. * Fig. 22. The branches of the fifth nerve. No. 1. The Casserian ganglion. 2. The ophthalmic nerve. 3. The frontal nerve. 4. Its supra-trochlear branch. 5. The lachrymal nerve. 6. The nasal nerve. 7. Its branch of communication with the ciliary ganglion. 8. The passage of the nerve through the ante*219 MUSCULAR BRANCHES. L 2 Escaping at the foramen ovale the nerve divides into two portions, an external, 18., into which is traced the whole of the anterior root of the fifth, and an internal, 19.; the two portions being separated from each other by the external pterygoid muscle. The External division, 18., obtaining the whole of the motor function of the fifth, by means of its anterior root, immediately divides into five branches, which are distri- buted to the muscles of the temporo-maxillary region: these are, — Masseteric, which crosses the sigmoid notch with the masseteric artery to the masseter muscle. Temporal, two branches passing between the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle and the temporal bone to the temporal muscle. Buccal, a large branch which pierces the fibres of the external pterygoid, to reach the buccinator muscle. External pterygoid, to the external pterygoid muscle. Internal pterygoid, to the internal pterygoid muscle. To see the branches of the internal division requires a little addi- tional dissection. The external wall of the orbit having been already removed to trace the superior maxillary nerve, the student should tmake a section through the great ala of the sphenoid bone to near the foramen rotundum. Another incision should be carried parallel .vith the margin of the petrous bone to near the foramen ovale, and die intervening portion of bone broken away with the hammer. The :hisel and hammer will complete the removal of the remaining bone, f the nerve be not already exposed as it is passing through the oramen ovale. The external pterygoid muscle, which has hitherto orotected the nerves from the saw and hammer, is then to be re- •ior ethmoidal foramen. 9. The infra-trochlear nerve. 10. The supe- •ior maxillary nerve. 11. Its orbital branch. 12. The branches of •ommunication with Meckel’s ganglion. 13. The posterior dental >ranches. 14. Middle dental branches. 15. The anterior dental (ranches. 15. The infja-orbital branches. 17. The inferior maxillary lerve. 18. Its external or muscular division. 19. The internal tivision of the inferior maxillary nerve. The arrow marks the sepa- ation of these two divisions of the nerve by the external pterygoid auscle. 20. The gustatory nerve. 21. The branch of communica- ion with the submaxillary ganglion. 22. The inferior dental nerve, rising by two roots. 23. Its mylo-hyoidean branch. 24. The uricular nerve. 25. Its branch of communication with the facial erve.GUSTATORY NERVE. 220 moved, and the nerves, as they lie upon the internal pterygoid, cleared of fat and cellular tissue. The Internal division (Jiff. 22. 19.) of the inferior max- illary nerve divides into three large branches : — Gustatory, Inferior dental, Auricular. The Gustatory nerve (Jig. 22. 20.) descends between the two pterygoid muscles to the side of the tongue, where it becomes flattened, and divides into numerous filaments, which are distributed to the papillae and mucous membrane. Relations. — It lies at first between the two pterygoid muscles, next between the internal pterygoid and ramus of the jaw, then between the stylo-glossus muscle and submaxillary gland; lastly, it runs along the side of the tongue, resting upon the hyo-glossus muscle, and covered in by the mylo-hyoideus and mucous membrane. Branches. — While between the pterygoid muscles, it receives the chorda tympani, which joins it at an acute angle. At the submaxillary gland, the chorda tympani, 21., quits the nerve to enter the submaxillary ganglion. While resting on the hyo-glossus muscle, it sends fila- ments of communication (Jiff- 15. *) to the lingual nerve, which is also situated upon this muscle. The Inferior dental nerve (Jig- 22. 22.) arises from the inferior maxillary by two nervous cords, between which passes the arteria meningea media. It descends to the dental foramen with the inferior dental artery, between the internal lateral ligament and the ramus of the lower jaw. It thens runs along the canal in the inferior maxil- lary bone, distributing branches to the teeth, and emerges upon the chin at the mental foramen, where it commu- nicates with branches of the facial nerve, and is distri- buted to the integument. It gives oft' but one branch, the mylo-hyoidean, 23., which leaves the nerve just as it is about to enter the dental foramen. This branch pierces the insertion of the internal lateral ligament, and descends along a groove in the bone to the external surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, to which it is distributed.221 SYMPATHETIC — CRANIAL GANGLIA. L 3 The Auricular nerve (Jig- 22. 24.) passes directly backwards behind the articulation of the lower jaw, against which it rests. In this situation it divides into two branches, which reunite, and form a kind of plexus. From the plexus two branches are given off— one, 25., to communicate with the facial nerve in the parotid gland. The other, or temporal branch, ascends upon the root of the zigoma in front of the external ear, and is distributed to the pinna, the meatus, and the integument of the temple. It is pressure upon this nerve, which produces the agony of pain in abscess in the meatus. Cranial Ganglia of the Sympathetic. Six sympathetic ganglia are described as existing in the head: thev are, the Ganglion of Ribes, Ciliary ganglion, Spheno-palatine, or Meckel’s, Naso-palatine, or Cloquet’s, Otic, or Arnold’s, Submaxillary ganglion. The Ganglion of Ribes is a small ganglion of commu- nication between the sympathetic filaments of the anterior cerebral arteries. It is situated on the anterior commu- nicating artery. The remaining five ganglia are situated in relation with the fifth nerve and its branches. Thus, The Ciliary ganglion communicates with the nasal Dranch of the ophthalmic nerve. The Spheno-palatine is the sympathetic ganglion of the ;uperior maxillary nerve. 1 he Naso-palatine ganglion (if it exist) is a dependence >n the spheno-palatine. The Otic ganglion is situated on the internal pterygoid lerve, in relation with the motor root of the inferior naxillary nerve. The Submaxillary ganglion communicates with the gustatory nerve. W e shall describe them here *, in the order in which * ^ rnore rninute description of these ganglia, with an engraving, /ill be found in the Chapter (i On the Sympathetic Nerve.nOTIC GANGLION. 222 they are best dissected; the ganglion of Ribes belongs to the consideration of the brain ; and the ciliary has been already noticed, page 214. Otic ganglion. — A small ganglion discovered by Ar- nold of Heidelberg, is situated in contact with the internal surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, near to the fora- men ovale. A good demonstration of this ganglion re- quires a fresh subject and an especial dissection. In an ordinary dissection it will be best seen by dividing the inferior maxillary nerve at the foramen ovale, and drawing it outwards with hooks. The student should then dissect its inner surface carefully, under a strong light, and he will perceive a small ash-coloured body upon the course of the internal pterygoid nerve. Its filaments are too small to be seen in this dissection; they communicate with the motor root of the inferior maxillary, the auricu- lar, tympanic, facial, and sympathetic nerves, and two are distributed to the two muscles, tensor tympani and tensor palati. The spheno-palatine ganglion should next be examined : for this purpose the root of the pterygoid process must be broken away with the chisel. A glance at the base of the skull will show the student how far this incision should be carried. The two descending branches from the superior maxillary nerve are the proper guides to the ganglion. The Spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel’s) is the largest of the cranial ganglia, and is situated in the pterygo-maxillary fossa. It gives off branches in four different directions. Upwards, two branches to communicate with the supe- rior maxillary nerve. Doivnwards, the posterior palatine nerves. Inwards, spheno-palatine or nasal branches. Backwards, the Vidian nerve. The Posterior palatine nerves, three in number, descend through the palatine canal to the posterior palatine fora- mina, distributing branches to the mucous membrane of the nose, Eustachian tube, and palate. The Nasal branches pass into the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, supplying the mucous mem- brane, covering the turbinate bones and septum. One of the latter, longer than the rest (naso-palatine branch),SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 223 L 4 descends by the side of the septum to the naso-palatine canal, where it communicates with the naso-palatine gan- glion. The Vidian * nerve passes directly backwards through the pterygoid canal, and divides into two branches, carotid and petrosal. The Carotid branch enters the carotid canal, and com- municates with the carotid plexus (page 203.). The Petrosal branch enters the skull through the fora- men lacerum basis cranii, and passes backwards beneath !the Casserian ganglion to the hiatus Fallopii, on the an- terior aspect of the petrous bone, where it unites with the facial just as that nerve is forming its angular bend. Near to the stylo-mastoid foramen, it is reflected back- wards from the facial nerve, and crosses the tympanum in a curved direction between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, and assumes the name of chorda tympani. Escaping from the tympanum through the fissura Glaseri, it descends to the gustatory nerve, which it joins at an acute angle ; and at the submaxillary gland it quits that nerve to enter the submaxillary gan- glion. The Submaxillary ganglion is situated in the sub- maxillary gland, close to the gustatory nerve, to which it is connected by the nerve above described, and by several smaller branches. It sends off a number of filaments, which are distributed upon the ducts of the submaxillary 1 gland. The Naso-palatine ganglion (Cloquet’s) is de- scribed by Cloquet as occupying the naso-palatine canal, giving branches, anterior palatine to the palate, and com- municating with Meckel’s ganglion by means of the nciso- | palatine nerve. Its existence is denied by Arnold, who has shown the naso-palatine passing as a distinct nervous filament through the naso-palatine canal to the papilla on the palate behind the incisor teeth. Cruveilhier, also, has been unable to • Vidus Vidius, Professor of Anatomy in the College of France, in 1542, and in Pisa, in 1.547. lie was the predecessor of Sylvius in the College of I'rance. Ill’s “ Anatomia Corporis Humani ” was published, in 1611, at Venice, after his death.224 PHARYNX. find this ganglion. The sympathetic system will be found described as a whole in Chapter XI. Pharynx. The student should now proceed to examine the remainder of the muscles of the neck, together with the anatomy of the pharynx and larynx. For this purpose the following preparation must be made. The trachea and oesophagus are to be cut through at the lower part of the neck, and drawn upwards by dividing the loose cellular tissue which connects the pharynx to the vertebral column. The saw is then to be applied behind the styloid processes, and the base of the skull sawn through. The vessels and loose structures should be re- moved from the preparation, and the pharynx stuffed with tow or wool for the purpose of distending it, and rendering the muscles more easy of dissection. The Pharynx is a musculo-membranous sac, situated upon the vertebral column, and extending from the base of the skull to a point parallel with the cricoid cartilage, where it becomes constricted to form the oesophagus. The Muscles of the pharynx are, the Constrictor inferior, Constrictor medius, Constrictor superior, Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus. The Constrictor inferior arises from the two upper rings of the trachea, from the cricoid, and the side of the thyroid cartilage. It is inserted into the tendinous raphe overlapping the middle constrictor. This muscle must be removed before the next can be examined. In dissecting the surface of the next muscle, the pha- ryngeal plexus will require to be removed. The Constrictor medius arises from the great cornu of the os hyoides, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo-hyoidean ligament. It radiates from its origin upon the side of the pharynx, its lower fibres descending and being overlapped by the constrictor inferior, its upper fibres ascending so as to cover in the constrictor superior. It is inserted into the raphe and basilar process of the occipital bone. The upper portion of this muscle must be turned down, to bring the whole of the superior constrictor into view ; in so doing, the stylo-pharyngeus muscle will be seen passing beneath its upper border.225 l 5 MUSCLES. — OPENINGS. The Constrictor superior arises from the extremity of the molar ridge of the lower jaw, from the pterygo-max- illary ligament, and from the lower half of the internal pterygoid plate. Its fibres curve around the pharynx, to ibe inserted into the raphe and basilar process of the occi- pital bone. It is overlapped by the middle constrictor. The upper part of the pharynx, on each side between the base of the skull and the upper curved border of the superior constrictor, is deficient of muscular fibres, being completed only by the mucous membrane. The Stylo-pharyngeus muscle arises from the inner side and base of the styloid process : it descends between the superior and middle constrictor muscles, and is inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is the guide in dissection to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which runs along its lower border, and crosses it opposite the root of the tongue. Lower down it is in relation with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, which passes to the middle constrictor to form the pharyngeal plexus. The Palato-pharyngetis is described with the muscles iof the soft palate. It arises from the soft palate, and is inserted into the inner surface of the pharynx. Actions. — The three constrictor muscles contract upon the morsel of food as soon as it is received by the pharynx, and convey it gradually downwards into the oesophagus. The stylo-pharyngei draw the pharynx up- wards and widen it laterally. The palato-pharyngei also draw it upwards, and narrow the opening of the fauces. Interior of the Pharynx. After examining the exterior of the pharynx with its muscles, it should be laid open in order to examine the interior. For this purpose, an incision should be made along the middle line posteriorly, and the sides drawn out and pinned aside. There are seven openings in the pharynx: — Posterior nares, two, Eustachian tubes, two, Mouth, Larynx, (Esophagus.PHARYNX. OPENINGS. 226 The Posterior nares (Jiff. 23. 3. 3.) are the two large openings at the upper and front part of the pharynx. On either side is the irregular depression in the mucous membrane, marking the entrance of the Eustachian tube, 4. Beneath the posterior nares is the large opening into the mouth, 7., and beneath it the opening of the larynx, 8. The oesophageal opening, 10., is the lower constricted portion of the pharynx. The opening into the mouth is partly concealed by a movable curtain, which is called soft palate, or velum pendulum palati: the opening itself is named fauces. Soft palate {Jig. 23. 5.).— Hanging from the middle of the soft palate, is a rounded process, the uvula. From the uvula, on each side, the soft palate forms an arch, * Pig. 23. The openings into the pharynx. No. 1. The basilar process Of the occipital bone. 2. 2. The pe- trous portion of the temporal bone. 3. 3. The posterior nares, sepa- rated by the vomer. 4. 4. The openings of the Eustachian tubes. 5. The soft palate. 6. 6. The posterior arches of the soft palate. 7. The opening from the mouth. 8. The epiglottis. 9. The open- ing into the larynx. 10. The opening into the oesophagus. 11. 11. The sides of the pharynx drawn open. 12. The oesophagus.227 l 6 SOFT PALATE. which is continued into two projecting pillars or half arches that are continuous below with the sides of the base of the tongue and pharynx. Between the projecting pillars is a niche lodging the tonsil. Fauces. — The boundaries of the fauces are the soft palate above the tongue below, and on either side these two jnllars of the soft palate, with the intervening tonsil. The Muscles of the soft palate are Azygos uvulae, Levator palati, Tensor palati, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus. If the mucous membrane be carefully raised from off the soft palate, these muscles will be brought distinctly into view. The Azygos uvulce is not a single muscle, as might be inferred from its name, but a pair of small muscles placed side by side in the middle line of the soft palate. They arise from the spine of the palate bone, and are inserted into the uvula. The Levator palati arises from the extremity of the petrous bone and Eustachian tube, and spreads out in the structure of the soft palate. This muscle must be turned down from its origin on one side, and removed, and the superior constrictor dissected away from its pterygoid origin, to bring the next muscle into view. The Tensor palati (circumflexus) arises from the sca- phoid fossa at the base of the internal pterygoid plate and from the Eustachian tube, and descends to the hamular process around which it turns, and expands into a ten- dinous aponeurosis, which is inserted into the transverse ridge on the palate plate of the palate bone, and into the raphe. The tensor palati is separated from the levator by the Eustachian tube and pterygoid origin of the su- perior constrictor. These three muscles are placed in the reverse order of their description from before backwards ; the tensor palati being the most anterior, next the levator palati, and then the azygos uvulae.r 228 PREVERTEBRAL REGION. The two next muscles are brought into view by raising the mucous membrane from off the pillars of the soft palate at each side. The Palato-glossus (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small fasciculus of fibres that arises in the soft palate, and descends to be inserted into the side of the tongue. It is the projection of this small muscle that forms the anterior pillar of the soft palate. It has been named constrictor isthmi faucium from a function it performs in common with the palato-pharyngeus, viz. of constricting the open- ing of the fauces. The Palato-pliaryngeus forms the posterior pillar (Jig. 23. 6. 6.) of the fauces; it arises from the soft palate, and is inserted into the muscular structure of the pha- rynx. Actions.— The azygos uvulae shortens the uvula. The levator palati raises the soft palate, while the tensor spreads it out laterally so as to form a septum between the pharynx and posterior nares during deglutition. The palato-glossus and pharyngeus constrict the opening of the fauces, and press the food from the dorsum of the tongue into the pharynx. The larynx is described in Chap. VII., on the organs of sense. Prevertehral Region. The remaining region of the neck is the prevertebral, which is provided with a group of five muscles. They have been already exposed by the removal of the pharynx; they are the Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor, Scalenus anticus, Scalenus posticus, Longus colli. The Rectus anticus major arises from the anterior tuber- cles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone. The Rectus anticus minor arises from the anterior border of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar process.MUSCLES. 229 The Scalenus anticus appears like a continuation of the rectus anticus major ; it arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the tubercle upon the first rib. The phrenic nerve and subclavian vein lie upon the scalenus anticus, and the subclavian artery behind it. The Scalenus posticus arises from the posterior tuber- cles of all the cervical vertebrae excepting the first. It is inserted by two fleshy slips into the first and second ribs. The Longus colli consists of two portions. The upper arises from the anterior tubercle of the atlas, and is in- serted into the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae. The lower portion arises from the bodies of the second, third, and fourth, and transverse processes of the fourth and fifth, and passes down the neck to be inserted into the bodies of the three lower cervical and three upper dorsal vertebrae. We ; should thus arrange these attachments in a tabular ; form : — Origin. Upper \ I j portion. J Atlas Insertion. 3d, 4th, and 5th transverse pro- cesses. Lower portion. 2d, 3d, and 4th bodies 4th and 5th transverse processes ' 3 lower cervical vertebras, bo- dies. 3 upper dorsal, bodies. 1 h v In general terms, the muscle is attached to the bodies and transverse processes of the five superior cervical ver- tebrae above, and to the bodies of the three last cervical and three first dorsal below. Actions. — The rectus anticus major and minor pre- serve the equilibrium of the head upon the atlas. The longus colli flexes, the anterior part of the vertebral column, and the scaleni are inspiratory muscles raising the first and second ribs.230 CHAPTER VI. BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. To examine the encephalon with its membranes, the upper part of the skull must be removed by sawing through the external table, and breaking the internal table with the chisel and hammer. After the calvarium has been loosened all round, it will require a considerable degree of force to tear the bone away from the dura mater. This adhesion is particularly firm at the sutures, where the dura mater is continuous with a membranous layer interposed between the edges of the bones : in other situations, the connection results from numerous vessels which permeate the inner table of the skull. The adhesion subsisting between the dura mater and bone is greater in the young subject than in the adult. Upon being torn away, the internal table will present the deeply grooved and ramified channels corresponding with the branches of the arteria meningea media. Along the middle line will be seen a groove corresponding with the superior longitudinal sinus, and on either side may be frequently observed some depressed fossas, cor- responding with the Pacchionian bodies. The membranes of the encephalon and spinal cord are the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. The Dura mater* is the firm, bluish, fibrous mem- brane which is exposed on the removal of the calvarium. It lines the interior of the skull and spinal column, and sends processes inwards for the support and protection of the different parts of the brain. It also sends processes externally, which form sheaths for the nerves as they quit the skull and spinal column. Its external surface is rough and fibrous, and corresponds with the internal table of the skull. The internal surface is smooth, and lined by the thin varnish-like lamella of the arachnoid membrane. The latter is a serous membrane. Hence the dura mater becomes a fibro-serous membrane, being composed of its own proper fibrous structure, and the serous layer derived from the arachnoid. There are two other instances of fibro-serous membrane in the body, formed in the same * So named from a supposition that it was the source of all the fibrous membranes of the body.DURA MATER. 231 I way — the pericardium and tunica albuginea of the tes- ticle. On either side of the dura mater, the branches of the middle meningeal artery may be seen ramifying; and in the middle line is a depressed groove, formed by the subsidence of the upper wall of the superior longitudinal sinus. If the sinus be opened along its course, it will be found to be a triangular channel, crossed at its lower angle by numerous white bands, called chordae Willisii * ; granular bodies are also occasionally seen in its interior: these are glandulse Pacchioni. The Glandulcc Pacchioni -f- are small, round, whitish granulations, disposed in clusters. They are found in three situations : — 1. On the dura mater, to either side of the superior longitudinal sinus, where they often pro- duce considerable indentations in the inner wall of the skull; 2. In the superior longitudinal sinus ; 3. On the under surface of the dura mater, by the side of the sinus, connecting that membrane to the arachnoid and pia mater. If the student cut through one side of the dura mater, and turn it upwards towards the middle line, he will observe the smooth internal surface of the dura mater. He will perceive also the large cerebral veins filled with dark blood, passing from behind forwards to open into the superior longitudinal sinus, and the firm connections by means of these veins and the Pacchionian bodies between the dura mater and the pia mater. If he separate these with his scalpel, he will see a vertical layer of dura mater descending between the hemi- spheres, and if he draw one side of the brain a little outwards, he will distinctly perceive its extent: this is the falx cerebri. The processes of dura mater which are sent inwards towards the interior of the skull, are the falx cerebri, tentorium cerebelli, and falx cerebelli. The Falx cerebri (falx, a sickle), so named from its sickle-like appearance, narrow in front, broad behind, and * Willis lived in the seventeenth century : he was a great defender of the opinions of Harvey. t These bodies have no analogy whatsoever with glands. Their nature and use are but imperfectly known. They are not found in infancy. They were described as conglobate glands by Pacchioni, in an epistolary dissertation, “ De Glandulis Conglobatis Durae Me* ningis indeque ortis Lymphaticis ad Piam Matrem productis,” published in Rome, in 1705.232 FALX. — TENTORIUM. forming a sharp curved edge below, is attached in front to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone, and behind to the tentorium cerebelli. The Tentorium cerebelli (tentorium, a tent,) is a roof of dura mater, thrown across the cerebellum and attached to the margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone at each side, to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, which lodges the lateral sinuses behind, and to the clinoid processes in front. It supports the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and prevents their pressure * on the cerebellum leaving only a small opening anteriorly, for the transmission of the crura cerebri. The Falx cerebelli is a small process attached to the vertical ridge of the occipital bone beneath the lateral sinus, and to the tentorium. It is received into the indent- ation between the two lobes of the cerebellum. The student cannot see the two latter processes until the brain is removed ; but he should consider the attachments of the tentorium upon the dried skull, for he will have to divide it in the removal of the brain. He should now proceed to that operation, for which pur- pose the dura mater is to be incised all round, on a level with the section through the skull, and the scissors are to be carried deeply between the hemispheres of the brain in front, to cut through the anterior part of the falx; then draw the dura mater backwards, and leave it hanging by its attachment to the tentorium. Raise the anterior lobes of the brain carefully with the hand, and lift the olfac- tory bulbs from the cribriform fossae with the handle of the scalpel. Then cut across the two optic nerves and internal carotid arteries. Next divide the infundibulum and third nerve, and carry the knife along the margin of the petrous bone at each side, so as to divide the tentorium near its attachment. Cut across the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves in succession with a sharp knife, and pass the scalpel as far down as possible into the vertebral canal, to sever the spinal cord, cutting first to one side and then to the other, in order to divide the vertebral arteries and first cervical nerves. Then let him press the cerebellum gently forwards with the fingers of the right hand, the hemispheres being supported with the left, and the brain will roll into his hand. We shall now complete the description of the dura mater to avoid perplexing the student by recurring to it in another place; but we would counsel him to commence * In leaping animals, as the feline and canine genera, the tento- rium forms a bony tent.233 SUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS. the examination and study of the brain, while it is firm and fresh.* The layers of the dura mater separate in several situa- tions, so as to form irregular channels which receive the venous blood. These are the sinuses of the dura mater : they are lined in their interior by a continua- tion of the lining membrane of the veins, and may he arranged into two groups: — 1st. Those situated at the upper and back part of the skull. 2d. The sinuses at the base of the skull. The former are, the Superior longitudinal sinus, Inferior longitudinal sinus, Straight sinus, Occipital sinus, Lateral sinuses. The Superior longitudinal sinus is formed by the split- ting of the layers of the dura mater along the line of attachment of the falx cerebri. It is triangular in form, is narrow anteriorly, and increases in breadth as it proceeds backwards. It terminates at the middle of the occipital bone, by dividing into the two lateral sinuses. This sinus sometimes communicates in front with the nasal veins through the foramen ccecum. In its interior are found the chordae Willisii above described, and some Pacchionian bodies. The cerebral veins opening into the superior longitudinal sinus present a very peculiar disposi- tion : they enter from behind forwards directly opposite to the venous current in the sinus, and so obliquely that the * Some students are in the habit of attempting to harden the brain previously to commencing its dissection : with this object they soak it for some days in dilute acid, which hardens it a little on the exterior, but leaves the interior to decomposition ; hence, on commencing to dissect, they find it soft and pulpy, and perfectly useless. There is no satisfactory mode of hardening the brain but by immersing it in pure alcohol after the pia mater has been wholly removed. But even by this plan the advantage is not compensated by the expense which has been incurred; for, although the cerebral substance be truly hard and rigid, the natural colour and texture are wholly destroyed. We are quite satisfied from a practical experience of some years, that a mode- rately fresh brain cannot be improved by any artificial means for the use of the dissector. The brain is naturally a soft organ, then let the dissector work softly.234- lateral SINUSES. inner wall of the vein is enabled to perform the office of a valve, and prevent the reflux of the blood into the veins in an over-distended condition of the sinus. The Inferior longitudinal sinus is much smaller than the superior. It is circular in its form, and contained within the free margin of the falx cerebri. It terminates posteriorly in the straight sinus at the anterior border of the tentorium. The Straight sinus (fourth,) is the sinus of the tento- rium. It receives the venae Galeni * from the velum in- terposition, and runs backwards along the arch of the tentorium to the termination of the superior longitudinal sinus. The Occipital sinus is a small venous channel, which collects its blood from around the foramen magnum, and ascends along the fixed border of the falx cerebelli, to terminate in the torcular Herophili. The Lateral sinuses, starting from the termination of the superior longitudinal, curve around the occipital bone in the fixed border of the tentorium, and descend on each side behind the base of the petrous bone to the foramen lacerum posterius, where they pour their current into the internal jugular vein. These sinuses rest successively on the occipital bone, posterior inferior angles of the parietal, temporal, and occipital bones. The point of termination of the superior longitudinal sinus is therefore the centre of convergence of the straight and occipital sinuses, and the starting point of the lateral sinuses. Hence it is named the conflux of the sinuses or torcular Herophilif The sinuses of the base of the skull are, the Cavernous, Inferior petrosal, Circular, Superior petrosal, Transverse. The Cavernous sinuses are so named from presenting a cellular structure in their interior. They are placed on * Claudian Galen, chief of the Greek physicians after Hippocrates, was born about the year 130. ■j- Torcular (a press), from a supposition entertained by the older235 SINUSES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. the side of the sella turcica, receiving the ophthalmic veins anteriorly, and terminating posteriorly in the inferior I petrosal sinuses. In the outer wall of this sinus {jig. 20.) are situated the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves, and in the inner wall the internal carotid artery, sixth nerve, and branches of the carotid plexus. These parts are separated from the blood, of the sinus only by its lining membrane. The Inferior •petrosal sinuses are the continuations of the cavernous sinuses backwards along the lower border of the petrous bone to the foramen lacerum posterius, where they open with the lateral sinuses into the internal jugular veins. The remaining sinuses are communicating channels passing between the preceding ; thus, The Circular sinus is situated in the sella turcica, sur- rounding the pituitary gland, and communicates on either side with the cavernous sinus. The Superior petrosal sinus runs along the attached border of the tentorium, on the upper margin of the petrous bone, and establishes a communication between the cavernous and the lateral sinus at each side. The Transverse sinus (basilar, anterior occipital) passes transversely across the basilar process of the occipital bone, forming a communication between the two inferior petrosal sinuses. The sinuses of the dura mater communicate with the exterior of the skull by several large veins. On the summit of the skull a considerable vein opens into the superior longitudinal sinus, through the parietal foramen. Behind the ear a large vein opens into the lateral sinus, through the mastoid foramen; and, at the base of the skull, another communicates with the lateral sinus through i the posterior condyloid foramen. They communicate also very freely with the sinuses of the diploe. anatomists that the columns of blood, coming in different directions, compressed each other at this point. Herophilus was a great anatomist, and was well informed on many parts of the human structure: he lived about 500 years before Christ. J236 ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. The Arteries of the dura mater are the Anterior meningeal from the internal carotid, Middle meningeal 1 ^ , . , Meningea parva j From the internal maxillary, Inferior meningeal from the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries, Posterior meningeal from the vertebral. The Nerves are derived from the nervi molles of the sympathetic, the Casserian ganglion, the ophthalmic nerve, and sometimes from the fourth ; they are given off while these nerves are situated by the side of the sella turcica. The branches of the ophthalmic and fourth nerves are re- current, and are distributed between the layers of the tentorium as far as the lateral sinus. Arachnoid Membrane. The Arachnoid (apoc^vYj — £<So?, like a spider’s web), so named from its extreme tenuity, is the serous membrane of the cerebro-spinal centre, and, like other serous mem- branes, a shut sac. It envelopes the brain and spinal cord, and is reflected upon the inner surface of the dura mater, giving to that membrane its serous investment. The arachnoid is thin and transparent on the upper surface of the brain, and may be demonstrated by in- serting a blowpipe, and injecting beneath it a stream of air. In other situations, as at the base of the brain and between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata, it is semi- transparent and dense in its structure, and is rendered very evident by passing across from one convexity to another. In inflammation of the meninges, this mem- brane is often thickened ond opake. The arachnoid is attached to the surface of the pia mater by a loose cellular tissue, the sub-arachnoidean. This tissue is filamentous at the base of the brain, be- tween the hemispheres, and around the spinal cord, where the arachnoid is disposed very loosely. The Sub-arachnoidean cellular tissue is the seat of an abundant serous secretion, the sub-arachnoidean fluid, which fills all the vacuities existing between the arachnoid and pia mater, and distends the arachnoid of the spinal. PIA MATER. 237 cord so completely, as to enable it to occupy the whole of the space included in the sheath of dura mater. The arachnoid also secretes a serous fluid from its inner surface, which is small in quantity compared with the sub-arachnoidean liquid. It does not enter into the ventricles of the brain, as imagined by Bichat, but is reflected inwards upon the venae Galeni for a short distance only, and returns upon those vessels to the dura mater of the tentorium. It surrounds the nerves as they originate from the brain, and forms a sheath around them to their point of exit from the skull. It is then reflected back upon the inner surface of the dura mater. The cerebral nerves are re- tained in connection with the brain principally by this membrane, so that, in separating it from the brain, the nerves are also torn away. There are no vessels apparent in the arachnoid, and no nerves have been traced into it. Pia Mater. The Pia Mater is a vascular membrane composed of innumerable vessels held together by a thin cellular layer. It invests the whole surface of the brain, dipping into its convolutions, and forming a fold in its interior called velum interpositum. It forms folds (choroid plexuses), also, in other situations, as in the fourth ventricle, and in the longitudinal grooves of the spinal cord. This membrane differs very strikingly in its structure in different parts of the cerebro spinal axis. Thus, on the surface of the cerebrum, in contact with the soft grey matter of the brain, it is excessively vascular, form- ing remarkable loops of anastomoses between the convo- lutions, and distributing multitudes of minute straight vessels to the grey substance. In the substantia perforata, again, and locus perforatus, it gives off tufts of small arteries, which pierce the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. But, upon the crura cerebri, pons Varolii, and spinal cord, its vascular character seems almost lost. It has become a dense fibrous membrane, difficult to tear off, and forming the proper sheath of the spinal cord. I he pia mater is the nutrient membrane of the brain,238 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. and derives its blood from the internal carotid and verte- bral arteries. Its Nerves are the minute filaments of the sympathetic, which accompany the branches of the arteries. The Arteries of the brain maintain a remarkable com- munication at its base, which is called the Circle of Willis. If the arachnoid membrane be removed, and the connec- tions of the pia mater slightly separated, these vessels may be distinctly seen and examined. At the fissure of Sylvius the internal carotid artery will be seen to divide into three branches : — Anterior cerebral, Middle cerebral, Posterior communicating. The Anterior cerebral artery passes forwards in the great longitudinal fissure between the two hemispheres of the brain ; then curves backwards along the corpus callo- sum, and inosculates with the posterior cerebral artery. It gives branches to the inner surface of the hemispheres. The two anterior cerebral arteries are connected soon after their origin by a short anastomosing trunk, the an- terior communicating. The Middle cerebral artery passes outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into several large branches, which supply the anterior and middle lobes. Near its origin it gives off the numerous small branches which enter the substantia perforata. The Posterior communicating artery, very variable in size, sometimes double, and sometimes altogether absent, passes backwards and inosculates with the posterior cere- bral, a branch of the basilar. Commencing at the posterior extremity of the base of the brain, the two Vertebral arteries will be seen con- verging to the inferior border of the pons Varolii, where they form the Basilar. The vertebrals are often unequal in size, one being much larger than the other. Their branches within the skull are, Anterior spinal, Posterior spinal, Posterior meningeal, Inferior cerebellar.t BASILAR ARTERY. 239 The Anterior spinal is a small artery which unites with its fellow of the opposite side, and forming a common trunk, descends on the anterior aspect of the spinal cord to the cauda equina, where it is distributed. The Posterior spinal winds around the medulla ob- longata to the posterior aspect of the cord, and descends on either side nearly as far as the cauda equina, com- municating very freely with the spinal branches of the intercostal arteries. The Posterior meningeal., often a branch of the inferior cerebellar, is distributed to the dura mater. The Inferior cerebellar arteries wind around the upper part of the medulla oblongata to the under surface of the cerebellum, to which they are distributed. This artery gives off a small branch which accompanies the seventh pair of nerves into the meatus auditorius internus. The Basilar artery, so named from its position at the base of the skull, runs forwards to the upper border of the pons Varolii, where it divides into four ultimate branches, two to either side. While resting against the pons, it gives off several transverse branches to the crura cerebelli. Its branches are, Transverse, * ' Superior cerebellar, Posterior cerebral. 1 % The Superior cerebellar supplies the upper surface of the cerebellum, and inosculates with the inferior cere- bellar. The Posterior cerebral passes off on either side to the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and communicates on the corpus callosum with the anterior cerebral arteries. It is separated from the superior cerebellar artery, by the third nerve, and is in close relation with the fourth, in its course around the crus cerebri. Anteriorly near its origin, it gives off a tuft of small vessels, which enter the locus per- foratus, and it receives the posterior communicatingarteries from the internal carotid. The communications established between the anterior cerebral arteries in front, and the internal carotids and posterior cerebral arteries behind, by the communicating arteries, constitute the Circle of Willis. Were we called240 CIRCLE OF WILLIS. upon to answer how this circle was formed, we should say by the anterior communicating, anterior cerebral arteries, and internal carotids ; posterior communicating, posterior cerebrals, and basilar artery. The Circle of Willis includes within its area, several parts of the base of the brain, which should also be attended to. They may probably be more advantageously explained in a diagram, thus : — Anterior communicating. xv Internal carotid. Commissure of the optic nerves. Tuber cinereum. Infundibulum. Internal carotid. Corpora albicantia. A Locus perforatus. c % o %% Part of the Crura cerebri. // a A 0? A >* \ Origin of the 3d pair of nerves. * P°K \ ^ w p t/)# p- The Cerebro-spinal axis or centre consists of the brain and spinal cord. The Encephalon (tv KefaXt], within the head,) or contents of the skull, are the cerebrum, cere- bellum, medulla oblongata, and membranes. To form a just conception of these structures, it is necessary that the principle of development should be briefly explained. Development of Cerebro-spinal Axis in Animals. The centre of the nervous system in the lowest animals possessed of a lengthened axis, presents itself in the form of a double cord. A step higher in the animal scale, and knots or ganglia are developed upon one extremity of this cord; such is the most rudimentary condition of the brain in the lowest forms of vertebrata. In the lowest fishes the anterior extremity of the double cord displays a suc- cession of five pairs of ganglia. The higher fishes andCEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. —DEVELOPMENT. 241 amphibia appear to have a different disposition of these primitive ganglia. The first two have become fused into a single ganglion, and then follow only three pairs of symmetrical ganglia. But if the larger pair be unfolded after being hardened in alcohol, it will then be seen that the whole number of ganglia exists, but that four have become concealed by a thin covering that has spread across them. This condition of the brain carries us : upwards in the animal scale even to mammalia; e.g., in the dog or cat we find, first a single ganglion, the cerebellum, • then three pairs following each other in succession ; and if we unfold the middle pair, we shall be at once convinced • that it is indeed composed of two pairs of primitive ganglia i concealed by an additional development. Again it will be ■ observed, that the primitive ganglia of opposite sides, at ifirst separate and disjoined, become connected by means cof transverse fibres of communication (commissures, com- missurci,, a joining). The office of these commissures is t the association in function of the two symmetrical por- tions. Hence we arrive at the general and important tc:onclusion, that the brain among the lower animals con- s fists of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, . ind commissures which connect the substances of the Adjoining ganglia, and associate their actions. Let us now urn to the Development of the Cerebrospinal Axis in Man. The earliest indication of the spinal cord in man ex- jibits a pair of minute longitudinal filaments placed side >y side. Upon these towards the anterior extremity five >airs of minute swellings are observed, not disposed in a t traight line as in fishes, but curved upon each other so as • o correspond with the direction of the future cranium. The posterior pair soon becomes cemented upon the f | niddle line, forming a single ganglion ; the second pair also || nite with each other ; the third and fourth pairs, at first I istinct, are speedily veiled by a lateral development, 1 -Inch arches backwards and conceals them ; the anterior I airs, at first very small, decrease in size and become Imost lost in the increased development of the preceding s* • BITS* We see here a chain of resemblances correspondingCEREBRUM. 242 with the progressive development observed in the lower animals ; the human brain is passing through the phases of improving development, which distinguishes the lowest from the lower creatures: and we are naturally led to the same conclusions with regard to the architecture of the human brain, that we were led to establish as the principle of development in the inferior creatures — that it is composed of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, commissures to connect those ganglia, and developments from those ganglia. In the adult, the primitive longitudinal cords have be- come cemented together, to form the spinal cord. But, at the upper extremity, they separate from each other under the name of crura cerebri. The first pair of ganglia developed from the primitive cords, have grown into the cerebellum; the second pair (the optic lobes of animals) have become tbe corpora quadrigemina of man. The third pair, the optic thalami, and the fourth, the corpora striata, are the basis of the hemispheres, which, the merest lamina in the fish, has become the largest portion of the brain in man. And tbe fifth pair (olfactory lobes), so large in tbe lowest forms, lias dwindled into the olfactory bulbs of man. Cerebrum. The Cerebrum is divided into two hemispheres by the great longitudinal fissure, which lodges the falx cerebri, and marks the original development of the brain by two symmetrical halves. Each hemisphere, upon its under surface, admits of a division into three lobes, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior lobe rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by tbe fissure of Sylvius. * The middle lobe is received into the middle fossa, in the base of tbe skull, and is separated from the posterior by a slight impression produced by the ridge of the petrous bone. The posterior lobe is supported by the tentorium. * James Dubois, a celebrated professor of anatomy in Paris, where he succeeded Vidius in 1550, although known much earlier by his works and discoveries, but particularly by his violence in the defence of Galen. His name was Latinised to Sylvius.centrum ovale minus. 243 M 2 If the upper part of one hemisphere be removed with a scalpel, a centre of white substance will be observed, surrounded by a narrow border of grey, which follows the depressions of the convolutions, and presents a zig-zag outline. This appearance is called centrum ovale minus. The brain is composed of these two substances, the wrhite and grey. The white, or medullary substance, forms the great bulk of the cerebro-spinal axis. It is distinctly fibrous in structure, and, when hardened in alcohol, may be easily split in the course of its fibres. When cut across in the fresh brain, as in the section showing the centrum ovale minus, it will be found studded with small vascular points (jmncta), which are the divided cylinders of minute arteries and veins. The grey, or cortical substance (cineritious), forms a thin layer of equal thickness over the whole surface of the cerebrum and of the cerebellum ; hence its denomination, cortical (cortex, bark). It is softer than the medullary substance, and homogeneous in structure. It is also more vascular, receiving a prodigious number of minute straight arteries from the pia mater. Hence it is denominated the formative substance by Gall and Spurzheim, as being the nidus of support to the vessels, which are the source of nutrition to itself as well as to the medullary substance. The grey substance is found also in other situations than the surface, viz. in the interior of primitive ganglia of the cerebrum, the corpora striata, and thalami optici, in the tuber cinereum at the base of the brain, in the commissura mollis of the third ventricle, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, in the centre of each lobe of the cerebellum, each corpus olivare, &c. It also exists in the interior of the spinal cord and crura cerebri, but of a much darker colour than elsewhere. Indeed, the dark appearance in the centre of the section of the crus cerebri, is termed “ locus niger.” Now separate carefully the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, and a broad band of white substance will be seen to connect them. Remove the upper part of each hemisphere with a knife to a level with this white layer. The appearance resulting from this section is the centrum ovale majus. The Centrum ovale majus is the large centre of whiteCORPUS CALLOSUM. 244 substance presented to the view on the removal of the upper part of each hemisphere ; it is surrounded by the thin stratum of grey substance, which follows in a zigzag line all the convolutions and the fissures between them. In the middle of the centrum ovale majus is the broad band which connects the two hemispheres to each other, the corpus callosum. The Corpus callosum (fig. 24. 1.1. jig. 25. l.) (callosus, hard) is a dense layer of transverse fibres, connecting the two hemispheres, and approaching nearer to the anterior than to the posterior extremity of the brain. Anteriorly it forms a rounded border {jig. 25. 2.), and maybe traced downwards to the base of the brain, in front of the com- missure of the optic nerves. Posteriorly it forms a thick rounded fold {jig. 25. 3.), which is continuous with the fornix. Beneath the posterior rounded border of the corpus Fig. 24.* * Fig. 24. A diagram, representing a transverse section of the brain. . Nos. 1. 1. The corpus callosum, or great commissure of the hemi- spheres, extending transversely into each hemisphere. 2. The raplid, a linear depression between two slightly elevated ridges. 3. S. The lateral ventricles. 4. The space between the two layers of the septum lucidum, called the fifth ventricle. 5. 5. The fornix. 6. 6. The thin edges of the fornix, called corpora fimbriata. 7. The velum in- terpositum. 8. 8. The plexiform borders of the velum interpositum, called choroid plexuses. 9. 9. The thalami optici. 10. The space between the two thalami, called third ventricle. 11. The grey com- missure of the thalami optici, called middle commissure, or commis- sura mollis of the third ventricle. 12. The line of the base of the brain.245 LATERAL VENTRICLES. M 3 callosum, is the transverse Jissure of the brain, which extends beneath the hemispheres from the fissure of Sylvius on one side, to that on the opposite side of the brain. It is through this fissure that the pia mater com- municates with the velum interpositum (Jiff- 25. 8.). And it wras here that Bichat conceived that the arachnoid entered into the ventricles ; hence it is also named the Jissure of Bichcit. Along the middle line of the corpus callosum, is the raphe (Jig. 24. 2.), a linear depression between two slightly elevated longitudinal bands ; and, on either side of the raphe, may be seen the linece transverse, which mark the direction of the fibres of which the corpus callosum is composed. The corpus callosum is the commissure of the hemi- spheres. If an incision be made through the corpus callosum on either side of the raph£, two irregular cavities will be opened, which extend, from one extremity of the hemispheres to the other: these are the lateral ventricles. To expose them completely the upper boundary should be removed with the scissors. Each Lateral ventricle is divided into a central cavity, and three smaller cavities called cornua. The anterior cornu projects forwards into the anterior lobe ; the middle cornu descends into the middle lobe; and the posterior cornu passes backwards into the posterior lobe. The central cavity (fig. 24. 3. 3.) is triangular in its form, being bounded above (roof) by the corpus callo- sum. It is separated from the opposite ventricle by the septum lucidum, and its Jloor is formed by the following parts, taken in their order of position from before back- wards : — Corpus striatum, Tenia semicircularis, Thalamus opticus, Choroid plexus, Corpus fimbriatum, Fornix. The Corpus striatum is so named from the striated lines of white and grey matter which are seen upon cutting246 LATERAL VENTRICLE. — FLOOR. into its substance. It is grey on the exterior, and of a pyriform shape. The broad end, directed forwards, rests against the corpus striatum of the opposite side ; the small end, backwards, is separated from its fellow by the interposition of the thalami optici. The corpus striatum is the superior ganglion of the cerebrum. The Tenia semicircularis [tenia, a fillet) is a narrow band of medullary substance, extending along the pos- terior border of the corpus striatum, and serving as a bond of connection between that body and the thalamus opticus. It is partly concealed by a large vein (vena corporis striata), formed by small vessels from the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus. This vein terminates in the venae Galeni. The vein is also overlaid by a yellowish band, a thick- ening of the lining membrane of the ventricle. This was first noticed and described by Tarinus, under the name of the horny band. We may, therefore, term it tenia Tarini. * The Thalamus opticus [thalamus, a bed) is an oblong body, having a thin coating of white substance on its sur- face ; it has received its name from being the origin of the optic nerve. It is the inferior ganglion of the cere- brum. The border only of the thalamus is seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle. We shall, therefore, defer its further description until we can examine it in its entire extent. The Choroid plexus (xopiov— £<So?, resembling the chorion) is a vascular fringe extending obliquely across the floor of the lateral ventricle, and sinking into the middle cornu. Anteriorly it is small and tapering, and communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite ventricle, through a large oval opening, the foramen of Munro. This foramen (fig. 25. 9.) maybe distinctly seen by pulling slightly on the plexus, and pressing aside the septum lucidum with the handle of the knife. It is * Peter Tarin, a French anatomist: his work, entitled “ Adver- saria Anatomica,” was published in 1750.M 4 MIDDLE CORNU. 24:7 situated between the under surface of the fornix, and the anterior extremities of the thalarni optici, and forms a transverse communication between the lateral ventricles, and below with the third ventricle. The choroid plexus is variable in its appearance, and sometimes presents groups and clusters of small serous cysts, which have been mistaken for hydatids. The Corpus fimbriatum (fig. 24. 6.) is a narrow white band, which is situated immediately behind the choroid plexus, and extends with it into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is the lateral thin edge of the fornix. The Fornix is a white layer of medullary substance, of which a portion only is seen in this view of the ventricle. The Anterior cornu is triangular in its form, sweeping outwards, and terminating in a point in the anterior lobe of the brain, at a short distance only from its surface. The Poste/ior cornu or digital*cavity curves inwards, as it extends into the posterior lobe of the brain, and likewise terminates near to the surface. An elevation correspond- ing with a deep sulcus between two convolutions projects into the floor of this cornu, and is called hippocampus minor. The middle or descending cornu, in descending into the middle lobe of the brain, forms a very considerable curve, and alters its direction several times as it proceeds. Hence it is described as passing backwards and outwards and downwards, and then turning forwards and inwards. This complex expression of a very simple curve has given birth to a symbol formed of the primary letters of these various letters, and by means of this the student recollects with ease the course of the cornu, bodfi. It is the largest of the three cornua. The middle cornu should now he laid open by inserting the little finger into its cavity, and making it serve as a director for the scalpel in cutting away the side of the hemisphere, so as to expose it com- pletely. Its Superior boundary is formed by the under surface of the thalamus opticus, upon which are the two projections called corpus geniculatum internum and externum, and the inferior wall by the various parts which are often248 HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR. spoken of as the contents of the middle cornu: these are the Hippocampus major, Pes hippocampi, Pes accessorius, Corpus fimbriatum, Choroid plexus, Fascia dentata, Transverse fissure. The Hippocampus major or cornu Ammonis, so called from its resemblance to a ram’s horn, the famous crest of Jupiter Ammon, is a considerable projection from the in- ferior wall, and extends the whole length of the middle cornu. Its extremity is likened to the clubfoot of some animal, from its presenting a number of knuckle-like ele- vations upon the surface : hence it is named pes hippo~ campi. The hippocampus major is the termination of the lateral edge of the hemisphere, which in this situation is very much attenuated and rolled upon itself. If it be cut across, it will be seen to resemble the extremity of a convoluted scroll, consisting of alternate layers of white and grey substance. The hippocampus major is continuous supe- riorly with the fornix and corpus callosum. The Pes accessorius is a swelling somewhat resembling the hippocampus major’, but smaller in size: it is situated on the outer wall of the cornu, and is frequently absent. The Corpus fimbriatum is the narrow white band which is prolonged from the central cavity of the ventricle, and is attached along the inner border of the hippocampus major to its termination. Fascia dentata.—If the corpus fimbriatum be carefully raised a narrow serrated band of grey substance will be seen beneath it: this is the fascia dentata. Beneath the corpus fimbriatum will be likewise seen the transverse fissure of the brain, which has been before de cribed as stretching from the fissure of Sylvius on one side, across to the same fissure on the opposite side of the brain. It is through this fissure that the pia mater com- municates with the choroid plexus, and the latter obtains its supply of blood. The fissure is bounded on one sideFORNIX. 249 M 5 by the corpus fimbriatum, and on the other by the under surface of the thalamus opticus. The internal boundary of the lateral ventricle is the septum lucidum (Jig. 25. 7.). This septum is thin and semi- transparent, and consists of two laminae of cerebral sub- stance attached above to the under surface of the corpus callosum at its anterior part, and below to the fornix. Between the two layers is a narrow space, the Jifth ven- tricle (Jig. 24. 4.), which is lined by a proper membrane. The Fifth ventricle may be shown, by snipping through the septum lucidum transversely with the scissors. The corpus callosum should now be cut across towards its anterior extremity, and the two ends carefully dissected away. The anterior portion will be retained only by the septum lucidum, but the pos- terior will be found incorporated with the white layer beneath, which is the fornix. The Fornix [Jig. 24. 5.5. Jig. 25. 4.) (arch,) is a tri- angular lamina of white substance, broad behind, and ex- tending into each lateral ventricle, and narrow in front, where it terminates in two crura (Jig. 25. 5.), which arch Fig. 25.* * Fig. 2o. A diagram representing the longitudinal section of the brain between the two hemispheres. No. 1. The corpus callosum. 2. Its anterior extremity turning downwards to terminate at the base of the brain. 3. Its posterior extremity, much larger than the anterior, forms a rounded border, which is continuous with 4. The fornix. 5. The two crura of tlic fornix, terminating in G. The two corpora albicantia. 7. The septum250 VELUM INTERPOSITUM. downwards to the base of the brain. The two crura descend through the foramen commune anterius of the third ventricle, and terminate in the corpora albicantia, 6. Opening transversely beneath these two crura, just as they are about to arch downwards is the foramen of Munro, 9., through which the two lateral ventricles communicate, and the choroid plexuses are connected anteriorly. The lateral thin edges of the fornix are continuous pos- teriorly with the concave border of the hippocampus major at each side, and form the narrow white band called corpus jimbriatum. In the middle line the fornix is con- tinuous with the corpus callosum, and at each side with the hippocampus major and minor. Upon the under surface of the fornix towards its pos- terior part, some transverse lines are seen passing between the diverging lateral fasciculi : this appearance is termed the lyra, from a fancied resemblance to the strings of a harp. The fornix may now be removed by dividing it across anteriorly, and turning it backwards, at the same time separating its lateral connections with the hippocampi. If the student examine its under surface he will perceive the lyra above described. Beneath the fornix is the Velum interposition (fig. 24.7. Jig. l25. 8.), a reflection of pia mater introduced into the interior of the brain, through the transverse fissure. This velum is connected at either side with the choroid plexus, and contains within its two layers two large veins, the Vence Galeni (fig. 25. 10.), which receive the blood lucidum. 8. The velum interpositum. 9. The foramen of Munro. 10. The venae Galeni, escaping through the fissure of Bichat to enter the straight sinus. 11. The third ventricle. 12. Section of the anterior commissure. 18. Section of the middle commissure, com- missura mollis. 14. Section of the posterior commissure. 15. The foramen commune anterius, or space between the anterior and middle commissure, leading downwards in the direction of the arrow, between the crura of the fornix to the infundibulum : hence it is also named, iter ad infundibulum. 16- The pituitary gland. 17. The foramen commune posterius. 18. The cut edge of the corpora quadrigemina, which forms the superior boundary of the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, leading from the third (11.) into the fourth ventricle 19. 20. The corpora quadrigemina. 21. The crus cerebri of the right side. 22. Section of the pons Yarolii. 23. Section of the medulla oblongata.251 THIRD VENTRICLE. m 6 from the ventricles, and terminate posteriorly in the straight sinus. Upon the under surface of the velum interpositum, are two fringe-like bodies which project into the third ven- tricle. These are the choroid plexuses of the third ven- tricle. If the velum interpositum be raised and turned back, an operation which must be conducted with care, particularly at its posterior part, where it invests the pineal gland, the thalami optici and the cavity of the third ventricle will be exposed. The Thalami optici (Jig. 24. 9.9.) are two rounded oblong bodies of a white colour superficially, inserted between the two diverging portions of the corpora striata. In the middle line a fissure exists between them, which is called the third ventricle. Posteriorly and inferiorly, they form the superior wall of the descending cornu, and present two rounded elevations called corpus geniculatum externum and internum. The corpus geniculatum externum is the larger of the two, and of a greyish colour ; it is the principal origin of the optic nerve. Inferiorly, the thalami are connected with the corpora albicantia by means of two white bands, which appear to originate in the white substance uniting the thalami to the corpora striata. In their interior the thalami are composed of white fibres mixed with grey substance. They are essentially the inferior ganglia of the hemispheres. The Third ventricle (Jig. 24. 10. Jig. 25. 11. ll.) is the fissure between the thalami optici and corpora striata. It is bounded above by the under surface of the velum inter- positum, from which are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Its Floor is formed by the anterior termination of the corpus callosum, the tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and locus perforatus. Its sides are formed by the thalami optici and part of the corpora striata. Anteriorly, it is bounded by the anterior commissure and cruia of the fornix, and posteriorly by the posterior commissure and aqueduct of Sylvius. I lie third ventricle is crossed by three commissures, the aiuerior, middle, and posterior; and between theseTHIRD VENTRICLE. 252 are two spaces, called foramen commune anterius and foramen commune posterius. The Anterior commissure (Jig. 25. 12.) is a rounded white cord; communicating with the corpora striata. The Middle, or soft commissure (Jig. 25. 13. Jig. 24-. 11.), consists of grey matter, and is very easily broken down ; it connects the adjacent sides of the thalami optici. The Posterior commissure (Jig. 25. 14.) is a rounded white cord, connecting the two thalami optici posteriorly. Between the anterior and middle commissure, is the space called foramen commune anterius (Jig. 25. 15.), which, from leading downwards into the infundibulum, is also designated iter ad infundibulum. The crura of the fornix descend through this space, surrounded by grey matter, to the corpora albicantia. Between the middle and posterior commissure, is the foramen commune posterius (Jig. 25. 17.) from which a canal leads backwards to the fourth ventricle, the iter a tertio ad quart um ventriculum. Behind the third ventricle is placed the quadrifid gan- glion, called optic lobes in the inferior animals, and cor- pora quadrigemina (Jig. 25. 20. fig. 27. l.) in man. The two anterior of these bodies are the larger, and are named nates ; the two posterior testes. Resting upon them, and surrounded by a sheath of pia mater, obtained from the velum interpositum, with which it is liable to be torn off, unless very great care be used, is the pineal gland. The Pineal gland consists of soft grey substance, and is of a conical form ; hence one of its synonyms, conarium. It contains in its interior several brownish granules, which are composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime. It is connected to the thalami optici by two small rounded cords, called peduncles. It is very improperly called a gland. Behind the corpora quadrigemina is the cerebellum, and beneath the cerebellum the fourth ventricle. The student must therefore divide the cerebellum down to the fourth ventricle, and turn its lobes aside to examine that cavity. The Fourth ventricle (fig. 25. 19. fig. 27. 4.) is the ven- tricle of the medulla oblongata, upon the posterior surface of which it is placed. It is an oblong quadrilateral cavity,FOURTH VENTRICLE. 253 bounded on either side by a thick cord passing between the cerebellum and corpora quadrigemina, called the processus e cerebello ad testes {Jig. 27. 2. 2.), and by the corpus resti- forme, 3. 3. It is covered in behind by the arch of the cerebellum, which forms three remarkable projections into its cavity, named, from their resemblance, uvula and tonsils ; and by a thin lamella of white substance, stretched between the two processus & cerebello ad testes, termed the valve of Vieussens. * This layer is easily broken down, and requires that care be used in its demonstra- tion. In Front the fourth ventricle is bounded by the pos- terior surface of the medulla oblongata; above by the corpora quadrigemina, and the termination of the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum ; and below by a layer of pia mater and one of arachnoid, passing between the under surface of the cerebellum and the medulla ob- longata, called the valve of the arachnoid. We observe within the fourth ventricle the choroid plexuses, the calamus scriptorius, and linece transversce. The Choroid plexus resembles in miniature that of the lateral ventricles : it is formed by the pia mater, and lies against that part of the cerebellum called uvula and tonsils. The anterior wall, or floor, of the fourth ventricle is formed of grey substance, which is continuous with that contained within the spinal cord. This grey substance is separated into two bands by a median fissure, which is continuous with the calamus scriptorius. The two bands are considered by Mr. Solly as the true posterior pyra- mids ; and he has observed in their structure such an arrangement of fibres as induces him to name them the “ posterior ganglia of the medulla oblongata,” in opposition to the corpora olivaria, which he describes as the “ ante- rior ganglia of the medulla.” I he Calamus scriptorius {fig. 27. 6.) is a groove upon the anterior wall, or floor, of the fourth ventricle. Its pen-like appearance is produced by the divergence of the posterior median columns, 7., the feather by the linese * Raymond Vieussens, a brain and nervous system, published in Lyons, in 1685. great discoverer in the anatomy of the Ilis “ Nevrographia Universalis ” was254; LINING MEMBRANE OE THE VENTRICLES. transversae. At the point of the pen is a small cavity lined with grey substance, and called Ventricle of Aran- tius. The Linece transversce (fig. 27. 8.) are irregular trans- verse lines upon the anterior wall of the ventricle, which in some degree resemble the plume of the pen. They are the filaments of origin of the auditory nerve. There is no communication between the fourth ven- tricle and the subarachnoidean cellular tissue, as ima- gined by Magendie. Lining Membrane of the Ventricles. The lining membrane of the ventricles is a serous layer, quite distinct from the arachnoid, and having no communication with it. This membrane lines the whole of the interior of the lateral ventricles, and is connected above and below to the attached border of the choroid plexus, so as to exclude completely all communication be- tween the ventricles and the exterior of the brain. It is reflected through the foramen of Munro on each side into the third ventricle, which it invests throughout. From the third it is conducted into the fourth ventricle, through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, and lines its interior, together with the layer of pia mater which forms its inferior boundary. In this manner a perfect communi- cation is established between all the ventricles, with the exception of the fifth, which has its own proper mem- brane. It is this membrane which gives them their polished surface, and transudes the secretion which moistens their interior. When this fluid accumulates to an unnatural degree, it may then break down the layer of pia mater at the bottom of the fourth ventricle, and thus pour its fluid into the subarachnoidean cellular tissue; but in the normal condition no communication whatever can exist between the interior of the ventricles and the serous covering of the exterior of the brain. Cerebellum. The Cerebellum, according to Cruveilhier, is seven times smaller than the cerebrum. Like it, it is composed of white and grey substance, whereof the grey is in largerCEREBELLUM. 255 proportion than the -white. Its surface is formed by parallel lamellce, separated by fissures ; and at intervals deeper fissures exist, which divide it into larger segments, termed lobules. The cerebellum is divided into two lateral hemispheres, or lobes, two minor lobes called superior and inferior vermiform processes, and some small lobules. The Lateral lobes are separated from each other pos- teriorly by a depression which lodges the falx cerebelli, and above and below by the projection of the vermiform processes. The Superior vermiform process is all that exists of the cerebellum in birds, and forms the largest proportion of the organ in many mammalia. It is situated along the middle line, and serves to connect the lateral lobes supe- riorly. The Inferior vermiform process forms a projection inferiorly, and is the means of connection between the lateral lobes below. The principal lobules are the pneumogastric, the ton- sils, uvula, and linguetta laminosa. The Pneumogastric lobule (flocculus) is situated on the anterior border of the cerebellum, near to the origin of the eighth pair of nerves, and is hence called pneumo- gastric. It is not unlike a convoluted shell in its form. The Tonsils and Uvula resemble those organs in a swollen state very strikingly: they project from the under surface of the cerebellum into the fourth ventricle. The Linguetta laminosa is a thin tonguelet of grey substance, marked by transverse furrows, extending for- wards upon the valve of Vieussens from the grey sub- stance of the cerebellum. When cut into vertically, the cerebellum presents the appearance termed arbor vitae. If the incision be made through the outer third of the organ, a grey body, sur- rounded by a yellow ziz-zag line of horny structure, will be seen in the centre of the white substance : this is the corpus rhomboideum, or ganglion of the cerebellum. J lie cerebellum is associated with the spinal cord and cerebrum by three pair of peduncles, the Corpora restiformia, Processus b cerebello ad testes, Crura cerebelli.BASE OF THE BRAIN. 256 The Corpora restiformia, or inferior peduncles, diverge at the upper extremity of the medulla oblongata, and enter the cerebellum, forming, by their divergence, part of the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle. Their fibres surround the corpus rhomboideum, and are ex- panded into the lamellae of the cerebellum. The Processus e cerebello ad testes are the superior pe- duncles : they ascend from the corpus rhomboideum on each side to the testis, and also form part of the lateral boundaries of tbe fourth ventricle. The valve of Vieus- sens, by connecting the two processus h cerebello ad testes from side to side, and the cerebellum and testes from behind forwards, also contributes to the antero-pos- terior communication. The Crura cerebelli are the terminations of the trans- verse fibres of the pons Varolii, or great commissure of the cerebellum, which serves to estabish a transverse communication between the lateral lobes. Base of the Brain. The student should now prepare to study the base of the brain ; for this purpose it should be turned upon its incised surface, and if the dissection have hitherto been conducted with care, he will find the base perfectly un- injured. The arachnoid membrane, some parts of the pia mater, and the circle of Willis, must be carefully cleaned away in order to expose all the structures. These he will find arranged in the following order from before backwards: — Longitudinal fissure, Olfactory nerves, Fissure of Sylvius, Substantia perforata, Commencement of the transverse fissure, Optic commissure, Tuber cinereum, Infundibulum, Corpora albicantia, Locus perforatus, Crura cerebri, Pons Varolii, Crura cerebelli, Medulla oblongata.257 BASE OF THE BRAIN. The Longitudinal fissure is the space separating the two hemispheres: it is continued downwards to the base of the brain, and divides the two anterior lobes. In this fissure the anterior cerebral arteries ascend towards the corpus callosum ; and, if the two lobes be slightly drawn away from each other, the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum will be seen descending to the base. On either side of the longitudinal fissure, upon the under surface of each anterior lobe, is the Olfactory nerve, with its bulb. The Fissure of Sylvius bounds the anterior lobe pos- teriorly, and separates it from the middle lobe : it lodges the middle cerebral artery. The Substantia perforata is a triangular plane of white substance, situated at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. It is named perforata from being pierced by a number of openings for small arteries, which enter the brain in this situation to reach the corpus striatum. Passing backwards on each side beneath the edge of the middle lobe, is the commencement of the great trans- verse fissure, which extends beneath the hemispheres to the same point on the opposite side. The Optic commissure is situated on the middle line : it is the point of communication between the two optic nerves. The Tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey substance immediately behind the optic commissure, and connected with its posterior border. It forms part of the floor of the third ventricle. The Infundibulum is a tubular process of grey sub- stance, opening from the centre of the tuber cinereum, and attached below to the pituitary gland {fig. 25. 16.), which is lodged in the sella turcica. This gland is re- tained within the sella turcica by the dura mater and arachnoid, and is with great difficulty removed with the brain. It is, therefore, better left in its place, where it is intended to study afterwards the base of the skull ; for any attempt at removal would injure the cavernous sinuses. It consists of two lohes, but presents nothing glandular, either in structure or function. I lie Corpora albicant.ia {fig. 25. G.) are two rounded nlute bodies, placed side by side, of about the size ofPONS VAROLII. 258 peas; hence their synonym, pisiformia. They are the anterior extremities of the crura of the fornix, and are connected with the thalami optici by two white cords, which may be easily traced. The Locus perforatus is a layer of whitish grey sub- stance, connected in front with the corpora albicantia, and on either side with the crura cerebri, between which it is situated. It is perforated by several thick tufts of arteries, which are distributed to the thalami optici and third ventricle, of which it assists in forming the floor. It is sometimes called pons Tarini. The Crura cerebri are two thick white cords which issue from beneath the pons Varolii, and diverge to either side to enter the thalami optici. The third nerve will be seen to arise from the inner side of each, and the fourth nerves wind around them from above. If the crus cerebri be cut across, it will be seen to present, in the centre of the section, a dark spot, the locus niger. The Pons Varolii* (protuberantia annularis) is the broad transverse band of white fibres which arches like a bridge across the upper part of the medulla oblongata, and, contracting on either side into a thick rounded cord, enters the substance of the cerebellum under the name of crus cerebelli. There is a groove along its middle which lodges the basilar artery. The pons Varolii is the com- missure of the cerebellum, and associates the two lateral lobes in their common function. Resting upon the pons, near its posterior border, is the sixth pair of nerves. On the anterior border of the crus cerebelli, at each side, is the thick bundle of filaments belonging to the fifth nerve, and, lying on its posterior border, the seventh pair of nerves. The Medulla oblongata {fig. 19. 1.) is the upper en- larged portion of the spinal cord. Upon its anterior sur- face are seen two narrow projecting columns, the corpora pyraniidalia {fig. 19. 21.). These bodies are broad above * Constant Varolius, Professor of Anatomy in Bologna: he died in 1578. He dissected the brain in the course of its fibres, beginning from the medulla oblongata; a plan which has since been perfected by Vieussens, and by Gall and Spurzheim. The work containing his mode of dissection, “ De Resolutione Corporis Humani,” was pub- lished after his death, in 1591.MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 259 and narrow below, and at the point where they enter the pons Varolii they become considerably constricted. They are connected to each other in the middle fissure, at about an inch below the pons, by a decussation of their fibres, which form small interlacing bands crossing from side to side. Externally to the corpora pyramidalia are two oblong and rounded bodies, supposed to resemble olives in their form, and hence called Corpora olivaria (fig. 19. 3.). If these bodies be divided by a longitudinal section, a grey ziz-zag outline, resembling the corpus rhomboideum of the cerebellum, will be seen in the interior of each. This is the ganglion of the corpus olivare. Behind the corpus olivare is a narrow white band, which descends along the side of the medulla oblongata at the bottom of the lateral sulcus. This is the Respira- tory tract of Sir Charles Bell. The Corpora restiformia (fig. 19. 4.) (restis, a rope) are the remaining columns of the medulla oblongata, and form its posterior segment. They diverge superiorly to enter the cerebellum. Between the two corpora resti- formia posteriorly, are two other white bands, which diverge at the point of the calamus seriptorius, and join the corpora restiformia: these are the posterior median fascicidi of the medulla oblongata. If a thin layer of the pons Varolii be carefully raised, or if a longitudinal incision be made across it, it may easily be seen that the corpus pyramidale passes through the pons into the crus cerebri. If the crus cerebri be traced forwards, it will be found to enter the thalamus opticus, and leaving it by its opposite border to plunge into the corpus striatum, and pass from thence onwards 1; to the convolutions of the hemispheres. from pursuing this remarkable course, and spreading out as they advance, these fibres have been called by Gall the diverging fibres. While situated within the pons it is found that the fibres of the corpus pyramidale sepa- rate and spread out, and have grey substance interposed between them ; and that they quit the pons much in- creased in number and bulk, so as to form the crus cerebri. I he fibres of the crus cerebri again are separated in the thalamus opticus, and are intermingled with grev matter, iDIVERGING FIBRES. 260 and they also quit that body greatly increased in number and bulk. Precisely the same change takes place in the corpus striatum, and the fibres are now so extraordinarily multiplied as to be capable of forming a large proportion of the hemispheres, viz. the whole of the lower part of the anterior and middle lobes. From observing this remarkable increase in the white fibres apparently from the admixture of grey substance, Gall and Spurzheim considered the latter as the material of increase or formative substance to the white fibres, and they are borne out in this conclusion by several collateral facts, among the most prominent of which is the great vascularity of the grey substance; and the larger pro- portion of the nutrient fluid circulating through it is fully capable of effecting the increased growth and nutrition of the structures by which it is surrounded. For a like reason the bodies in which this grey substance occurs, are called by the same physiologists “ ganglia of increase,” and by other authors simply ganglia. Thus the thalami optici and corpora striata are the ganglia of the cerebrum, or in other words the formative ganglia of the hemi- spheres. Mr. Solly, in a recent work upon “ the human brain,” has designated the diverging fibres of the corpus pyra- midale that pursue the course above described, “ the cerebral fibres ; ” to distinguish them from another set of fibres discovered by that gentleman, which also proceed from the corpus pyramidale, and pass outwards beneath the corpus olivare to the cerebellum. These he names the “ arciformfibres,” and divides them into two layers, the superficial cerebellar, and deep cerebellar fibres. They join the corpus restiforme, forming one fourth of its whole diameter, and spread out in the structure of the cerebellum. The Corpora olivaria owe their convex olive-shaped form to a “ ganglion of increase ” ("the anterior ganglia of the medulla oblongata of Solly) placed in their interior. The white fibres which surround this ganglion form a fasciculus that is continued into the pons Varolii along with the corpora pyramidalia. Here its fibres are mixed with grey matter, and pass into the crus cerebri, forming its superior and inner segment. From the crus cerebri theyCONVERGING FIBRES. 261 traverse successively the thalamus opticus and corpus striatum, and become developed into the convolutions of the upper part of the hemispheres and posterior lobe. The Corpora restiformia diverge as they approach the cerebellum, and leave between them the cavity of the fourth ventricle. They then enter the substance of the cerebellum under the form of two rounded cords. These cords envelope the corpora rhomboidea, or ganglia of increase, and then expand on all sides so as to constitute the cerebellum. In addition to the diverging fibres which are thus shown to constitute both the cerebrum and cerebellum, by their increase and development, another set of fibres are found to exist, which have for their office the association of the symmetrical halves. These are called from their direction converging fibres, and from their office commissures. The commissures of the cerebrum and cerebellum are, the Corpus callosum, Fornix, Septum lucidum, Anterior commissure, Middle commissure, Posterior commissure, Peduncles of the pineal gland, Processus h cerebello ad testes, Valve of Vieussens, Pons Varolii. The Corpus callosum is the commissure of the hemi- spheres. It is therefore of moderate thickness in the middle, where its fibres pass directly from one hemisphere to the other — thicker in front, where the anterior lobes are connected, and thickest behind where the fibres from the posterior lobes are assembled. riie Fornix is an antero-posterior commissure, and serves to connect a number of parts. Below it is asso- ciated with the thalami optici; on each side by means of the corpora fimbriata with the middle lobes of the brain, and above, with the corpus callosum, and consequently with the hemispheres. • The Septum lucidum is a perpendicular commissure > between the fornix and corpus callosum.262 CEREBRAL NERVES. The Anterior commissure connects together the anterior portions of the posterior lobes of the brain, and the corpora striata. The Middle commissure is a layer of grey substance, uniting the thalami optici. The Posterior commissure is a white rounded cord, con- necting the thalami optici. The Peduncles of the pineal gland must also be regarded as commissures, assisted in their function by the grey sub- stance of the gland. The Processus e cerehello ad testes is the means of com- munication between the white substance of the cerebellum and cerebrum ; and the linguetta laminosa and valve of Vieussens perform the same office to the grey sub- stance. The Pons Varolii is the commissure to the two lobes of the cerebellum. It consists of transverse fibres, which are split into two layers by the passage of the fasciculi of the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria. These two layers, the superior and inferior, are collected together on each side, in the formation of the crura cerebelli. Cerebral Nerves. There are nine pairs of cerebral nerves. Taken in their order from before, backwards, they are 1st. Olfactory. 2d. Optic. 3d. Motores oculorum. 4th. Pathetici (trochleares). 5th. Trifacial (trigemini). 6th. Abducentes. _ I J Facial (portio dura). 1 1" \ Auditory (portio mollis). {Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric (vagus, par vagum). Spinal accessory. 9th. Lingual (hypoglossal). Functionally or physiologically they are divided into four groups, and in this order we shall examine them.263 OLFACTORY. — OPTIC. Nerves of fist. Olfactory, 1. Special seme - -I 2d. Optic, ^ 7th. Auditory, f 3d. Motores oculorum, 2. Motion - 6th. Abducentes, l_9th. Lingual, f 4th. Patheticus, 3. Respiration, (Bell.) -J 7th. Facial, l^Sth. Glosso-pharyngeal. Pneumogastric, Spinal accessory. 4. Spinal - - 5th. Trifacial. 1st pair, Olfactory. — This nerve rests against the under surface of the anterior lobe of the brain, being lodged in the narrow interval between two convolutions, and retained in its place by the arachnoid membrane. It arises by three roots, 1. Internal, from the substantia perforata. 2. Middle, from a papilla of grey matter t embedded in the anterior lobe. 3. External, from a long root which is traced for a considerable distance along the fissure of Sylvius, into the middle lobe. The union of these roots forms a nerve, triangular in form, and soft in structure, which expands into a bulb (bvlbus olfactorius'), and rests upon the cribriform plate. Its branches are transmitted through the numerous foramina in the cribri- form plate, to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose. 2d pair, Optic. — The optic nerve {Jig. 26.) arises by ' two roots, — one, 8., from the corpus gcniculatum externum, I 6.; the other, 9., from the nates. It winds around the crus cerebri as a flattened band, and unites with its fellow of ! the opposite side to form the commissure, lo. The two [ nerves then diverge from each other, to enter the orbit through the optic foramen, pierce the sclerotic and choroid coats of the eyeball, and expand in the retina, 11. The commissure rests upon the processus olivaris of the sphenoid bone, and its posterior border is closely connected with the tuber cinereum. On entering the orbit, the nerve obtains a firm sheath from the dura mater, which is continuous with the sclerotic coat of the eyeball.264 AUDITORY NERVE. 7th pair, Auditory (portio mollis). — This nerve (jig- 27.) arises from the anterior wall or floor, 4., of the fourth ventricle, by means of the white fibres, linece transverse, * Fig. 26. The origin and distribution of the optic nerves. Nos. 1. 1. The thalami optici, their upper surface. 2. The mid- dle commissure of the third ventricle, connecting the two thalami. 3. The posterior commissure of the third ventricle. 4. The foramen commune posterius. 5. The corpus geniculatum internum. 6. The corpus geniculatum externum. 7. The corpora quadrigemina: the anterior pair are the nates, the posterior the testes. 8. One root of the optic nerve, arising from the corpus geniculatum externum. 9. The other root, arising from the nates. 10. The commissure. 11. The expansion of the optic nerve into the retina. 12. A section of the retina, showing its three layers : the external is Jacob’s mem- brane, the next the nervous, and the internal the vascular, formed by the ramifications of the arteria centralis retina;, which is seen at 13. piercing the optic nerve, and running forwards in the centre of that nerve.265 MOTOR TRACT. 8., of the calamus scriptorius. It winds around the corpus restiforme, and enters the meatus auditorius interims, together with the facial nerve, which lies in a depression on its surface. At the bottom of the meatus it divides into two branches, which are distributed to the internal ear. It is extremely soft in its structure : hence its syno- nyme, portio mollis. The corpora pyramidalia are the continuations of the anterior columns of the spinal cord \ hence theii function is motion. The prolongation of these fasciculi through the pons Varolii into the crura cerebri is the motor tract, * Fi". 27. The origin and distribution of the auditory nerve. No. 1. The corpora quadrigemina. 2. 2. The processus e cere- l oello ad testes, at each side. 3. 3. The corpora restiformia. 4. The .pace included between these four bodies, the fourth ventricle. 5. The opening of the canal of communication which leads from the hird ventricle, the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. 6. The :alamus scriptorius. 7. The posterior median columns of the spinal :ord, which form by their divergence the point of the calamus, which s also called the ventricle of Arantius. 8. The lines: transversae of he fourth ventricle, which are the lines of origin of the auditory rerve. 9. The anterior branch of the auditory nerve, distributed to he cochlea. 10. The posterior, or vestibular branch. 11. The itriculus communis, which conceals the sacculus proprius from view. 2. The ampulla of the oblique semicircular canal. 1 3. The ampullae f the perpendicular and horizontal semicircular canals. N2 66 MOTOR NERVES. tractus motorius. Now the three motor nerves arise from the motor tract at different points of its course. 3d pair, Motores Oculorum.—This nerve (Jig.21. 3.) arises from the inner side of the crus cerebri. It pierces the dura mater immediately in front of the posterior clinoid process, descends obliquely along the external wall of the cavernous sinus, and enters the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus, to be distributed to all the muscles of the orbit excepting the superior oblique and external rectus. 6th pair, Abducentes.—The abducens nerve (Jig. 21. 6.) arises from the upper part of the corpus pyramidale. It pierces the dura mater upon the basilar process of the sphenoid bone, and ascends to the cavernous sinus. It then runs forwards along the inner wall of the sinus, below all the other nerves, and, resting against the in- ternal carotid artery, passes between the two heads of the external rectus, and is distributed to that muscle. 9th pair, Lingual (hypoglossal). — The ninth nerve arises by several filaments from the side of the corpus pyramidale, and passes out of the skull through the ante- rior condyloid foramen. It is distributed to the muscles of the tongue. Respiratory nerves.—A narrow white fasciculus exists between the corpus olivare and corpus restiforme in the medulla oblongata, from which arise a series of nerves which Sir C. Bell conceived to be analogous in their function. Hence he named them, in consonance with his views, respiratory. This arrangement, however, presents the anomaly of a respiratory nerve being distributed to one of the muscles of the orbit. 4th pair, Pathetici (Jig. 21.4.) (trochlearis).—This is the smallest cerebral nerve : it arises from the testis and valve of Vieussens, pierces the dura mater at the anterior attachment of the tentorium, close to the oval opening which transmits the fifth nerve, and passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus to enter the orbit above the origin of the levator palpebrae muscle. In the sinus it is the second nerve from above, but soon rises above the third, and becomes the highest. It is distributed upon the orbitar surface of the superior oblique, or troch- learis muscle : hence its synonyme, trochlearis.267 RESPIRATORY NERVES. 7th pair, Facial (portio dura).—The facial nerve {Jig. 19. 23.) arises from the upper part of the respiratory tract, where it joins the pons Varolii. It enters the internal auditory foramen along with the portio mollis, and then passes along the aqueductus Fallopii to its exit from the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. It is distributed to the muscles of the face and head, and is the true motor nerve of the face. 8th pair. — This pair consists of three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogas trie, and spinal accessory. The Glosso-pharyngeal nerve arises {Jig. 19. 5.) by several filaments from the respiratory tract, between the corpus olivare and restiforme, and quits the skull at the foramen lacerum posterius, to be distributed principally to the mucous membrane and secreting apparatus of the tongue and pharynx. The Pneumogastric nerve {vagus) arises {Jig. 19. 8.) by a greater number of filaments immediately below the glosso-pharyngeal, and passes through the foramen lace- rum posterius, with the preceding nerve. It is distributed to the respiratory and digestive apparatus and heart: its course is, therefore, long and wandering : hence its syno- nyme, vagus. The Spinal accessory nerve arises {Jig. 19. 20.) by several filaments from the respiratory tract, opposite the fourth cervical vertebra. It ascends to the foramen magnum, between the anterior and posterior roots of spinal nerves, and behind the ligamentum denticulatum, and joins the other two nerves at the foramen lacerum posterius, through which it accompanies them. It is distributed to the sterno mastoid, trapezius, and levator anguli scapulae muscles. Spinal nerve, 5th pair, Trifacial (trigeminus).—This nerve is analogous to the spinal nerves in its origin by two roots from the anterior and posterior columns of the spinal cord, and in the existence of a ganglion on the posterior root. Hence it ranges with the spinal nerves, and is considered as the spinal cranial nerve. It arises by two roots, an anterior root {Jig. 21. 11.), of small size, from the corpus pyramidale, and a posterior root, 10., larger than the anterior, from the corpus resti- forme. The two roots pass forwards through the pons N 22C 8 SPINAL CORD. Varolii to tlie anterior border of the crus cerebelli, where the nerve makes its appearance on the brain. In this situation it consists of from seventy to eighty filaments, held together by arachnoid membrane. The nerve then passes through an oval opening in the border of the ten- torium, near to the extremity of the petrous bone, and spreads out into a large semilunar ganglion, the Casserian, which divides into three large branches, ophthalmic, supe- rior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. If the ganglion be carefully turned up, the anterior root will be seen as a flattened cord lying against the ganglion, and crossing it to join the inferior maxillary nerve. The Casserian ganglion rests upon the anterior root of the fifth nerve, the cranial branch of the Vidian, the nervus petrosus superficialis minor, or the communicating branch from Jacobson’s nerve, to the otic ganglion, the sixth nerve, and the internal carotid artery. Spinal Cord. The dissection of the spinal cord requires that the spinal column should be opened throughout its entire length by sawing through the laminae of the vertebrae, close to the roots of the transverse processes, and i-aising the arches with a chisel, after the muscles of the back have been removed. The Spinal column contains the spinal cord, or medulla spinalis; the roots of the spinal nerves; and the membranes of the cord, viz. dura mater, arachnoid, pia mater, and memhrana dentata. The Dura mater {Jig. 28. l.) (theca vertebralis) is con- tinuous with the dura mater of the skull : it is closely attached around the border of the occipital foramen, par- ticularly in front, to the posterior common ligament. In the vertebral canal it is connected only by loose cellular tissue, containing an oily fluid, somewhat analogous to the marrow of long bones. On either side, and below, it forms a sheath, 2. 2., for each of the spinal nerves, to which it is closely adherent. Upon its inner surface it is smooth, being lined by the arachnoid; and on either side may be seen the double opening for the two roots of each of the spinal nerves.269 MEMBRANA DENTATA. N 3 The Arachnoid {Jig. 28.) is a continuation of the serous membrane of the brain. It encloses the cord very loosely, being connected to it only by long slender cellu- lar filaments ; passes off on either side with the spinal nerves, to which it forms a sheath; and is then reflected upon the dura mater, to constitute its serous surface. A connection exists in several situations between the arach- noid of the cord and that of the dura mater. The space between the arachnoid and the spinal cord is identical with that already described as existing between the same parts in the brain, the Sab-arctchnoidean space {Jig. 28. 4.). It is filled in both with a serous fluid, sufficient in quantity to expand the arachnoid, and fill completely the cavity of the theca vertebralis. The Sub-arcichnoidean Jluid keeps up a constant and gentle pressure upon the entire surface of the brain and spinal cord, and yields with the greatest facility to the various movements of the cord, giving to those delicate structures the* advantage of the principles so usefully applied by Dr. Arnott in the hydrostatic bed. The Pia mater {Jig. 28. 7. 7.) is the immediate invest- ment of the cord, and, like the other membranes, is con- tinuous with that of the brain. It is not, however, like the pia mater cerebri, a vascular membrane, but is dense and fibrous in its structure, and contains very few vessels. It invests the cord closely, and sends a duplicature into the sulcus longitudinalis anterior, and another, extremely delicate, into the sulcus longitudinalis posterior. It forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the nerves, and for the nerves themselves; and, inferiorly, at the conical termination of the cord, it is prolonged downwards, and forms a slender ligament, which descends through the centre of the cauda equina, and is attached to the dura \ mater lining the canal of the sacrum. I he Membrana dentata {Jig. 28. 6.) is a process of the pia mater sent off from either side of the cord through- out its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Between each of the nerves it forms a serration, which is attached to the dura mater, and unites the two layers of the arachnoid membrane at that point. The processes are about twenty in num jci at each side. I heir use is to maintain the270 SPINAL CORD. position of the spinal cord in the midst of the fluid by which it is surrounded. The Spinal cord extends from the pons Varolii to opposite the second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a rounded point: it is not of the same thickness through- out, but presents three enlargements. The uppermost of these is the medulla oblongata, the next corresponds with the origin of the nerves destined to the upper extremities; and the lower enlargement is situated near to its termi- nation, and corresponds with the attachment of the nerves which are intended for the supply of the lower limb. In form the spinal cord is a flattened cylinder, and presents on its anterior surface a groove (fig- 28.8.), which extends into the cord to the depth of one third of its diameter. This is the sulcus longitudinalis anterior. If the sides of the groove be gently separated, they will be seen to be connected at the bottom by a layer of medullary substance, 9. * Fig. 28. Section of the spinal cord with its membranes. No. 1. The dura mater. 2. 2. The dura mater, forming a sheath for each of the roots of a spinal nerve, and afterwards a sheath for the nerve itself. The dotted line represents the arachnoid membrane. 3. 3. A sheath formed by the arachnoid around each of the roots of the spinal nerve during its passage through that membrane. 4. The space between the two layers of the arachnoid : an arrow at each side shows that this space is continuous all around the spinal cord, and that the disposition of the membrane at 3. 3. is a mere sheath. 5. The space between the arachnoid and pia mater, the sub-arachnoidean space, in which is lodged the sub-arachnoidean fluid. 6. One of the dent- ations of the ligamentum denticulatum. 7. 7. The pia mater of the cord. 8. The sulcus longitudinalis anterior. 9. The white coni-271 COLUMNS. On the posterior surface another fissure (jig. 28. 11.) exists, which is so narrow as to be hardly perceptible without careful examination. This is the sulcus longitu- dinalis postei'ior. It extends much more deeply into the cord than the anterior sulcus, and terminates in the grey substance of the interior. These two fissures divide the medulla spinalis into two lateral cords, which are con- nected to each other only by the white layer, 9., which forms the bottom of the anterior longitudinal sulcus. On either side of the sulcus longitudinalis posterior is a slight line, which bounds on either side the posterior median columns {jig* 28. 15.). These are most apparent at the upper part of the cord, near to the fourth ventricle, where they are separated by the point of the calamus scriptorius. Two other lines are observed on the medulla, the an- terior and posterior lateral sulci, corresponding with the attachment of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The Anterior lateral sulcus is a mere line, marked only by the attachment of the filaments of the anterior roots. The Postei'ior lateral sulcus is more evident ; and is formed by a narrow greyish fasciculus derived from the grey substance of the interior. These sulci divide the medulla into four fasciculi or cords, viz Anterior columns, Lateral columns, Posterior columns, Median posterior columns. The Anterior {jig. 28. 12. 12.) are the motor columns, missure, connecting the Uvo lateral halves of the cord. 10 The grey commissure connecting the two semilunar processes of grey substance. 11. The sulcus longitudinalis posterior. 12. 12. The two anterior or motor columns of the spinal cord. 13. 13. The two lateral columns. 14. 14. The two posterior or sensitive columns. 15. 15. l ie posterior median columns, bounded by two shallow fissures. 16. Sin S i.°f the.an.tenor or motor root of a spinal nerve. 17. The origin cf its posterior or sensitive root. 18. The ganglion on the »—T N i<272 SPINAL NERVES. ORIGIN. and give origin to the motor roots of the spinal nerves. They are continued upwards into the medulla oblongata, under the name of corporapyramidalia. The Lateral columns {fig. 28. 13. 13.) are divided in their function between motion and sensation ; and contain the fasciculus described by Sir Charles Bell as the re- spiratory tract. Some anatomists consider the anterior and lateral column on each side as a single column, under the name of antero-latercil. The Posterior {fig. 28. 14.14.) are the columns of sen- sation, and give origin to the sensitive roots of the spinal nerves. Their superior terminations are named corpora restiformia. The Median posterior columns {fig. 28. 15.15.) have no function at present assigned to them. If a transverse section {fig. 28.) of the spinal cord be made, its internal structure may be seen and examined. It would then appear to be composed of two hollow cylinders of white matter, placed side by side, and con- nected by a narrow white commissure, 9. Each cjdinder is filled with grey substance, which is connected by a commissure of the same matter. The form of the grey substance, as observed in the section, is that of two half moons placed back to back, and joined by a transverse band, 10. The horns of the moons correspond to the sulci of origin of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves. The anterior horns do not quite reach this surface, but the posterior appear upon the surface, and form a narrow grey line. Spinal nerves. — There are thirty-o?iepairs of spinal nerves, each arising by two roots, an anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensitive root. The Anterior roots {fig. 28. 15.) arise from a narrow white line, and approach nearer to the middle line as they descend. The Posterior roots {fig. 28. 17.), more regular than the anterior, arise from a narrow grey band formed by the internal grey substance of the cord. These roots are larger, and the filaments of origin more numerous, than those of the anterior roots. A ganglion, 18., is formed upon each of the posterior roots in the interver- tebral foramina. The first cervical nerve forms an ex-273 N 5 SPINAL VEINS. ception to these characters; its anterior root is larger than the posterior, and there is frequently no ganglion on its posterior root. After the formation of the ganglion, the two roots unite, and constitute a spinal nerve {Jig- 28. 19.), which escapes through the intervertebral foramen, and divides into an anterior branch, for the supply of the front half of the body, and a posterior branch, for the posterior half. The Spinal nerves are divided into Cervical 8 pairs Dorsal 12 Lumbar 5 Sacral 6 31 The Cervical nerves pass off transversely from the spinal cord; the dorsal are oblique in their direction ; and the lumbar vertical, and form the large assemblage of nerves at the termination of the cord called cauda equina. The Arteries of the spinal cord are, the anterior, pos- terior, and lateral spinal, which are derived from the vertebral; and branches from the intercostal and lumbar arteries, which enter the canal through the intervertebral foramina. The Veins of the vertebral column are divided into three sets: — Dorsi-spinal, Meningo-rachidian, Medulli-spinal. The Dorsi-spinal form a plexus around the spinous, transverse and articular processes and arches of the ver- tebrae. They receive the returning blood from the dorsal muscles and surrounding parts, and convey it into the meningo-rachidian veins. The Meningo-rachidian * veins are situated between . These veins are sometimes, though most incorrectly, termed “ sinuses: venous sinuses are canals existing in any structure, and merely lined by the internal coat of a vein ; but the meningo- rachidian veins have as many coats as other veins.MEDULLI-SFINAL VEINS. 274 the theca vertebralis and the vertebrae. They commu- nicate freely with each other by means of a complicated plexus. In front they form two longitudinal trunks, which extend the whole length of the column on each side of the posterior common ligament, and are joined on the body of each vertebra by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the ligament, and receive the large vertebral veins from the interior of each vertebra. They pour their blood into the vertebral veins in the neck, into the intercostal and azygos veins in the thorax, and into the lumbar and sacral veins in the loins and pelvis, by means of communicating trunks, which escape at the interver- tebral foramina. The Medulli-spinal veins are situated between the pia mater and arachnoid; they communicate freely with each other, and form plexuses, and send branches through the intervertebral foramina with each of the spinal nerves, to join the veins of the trunk.275 n 6 CHAPTER VII. ORGANS OF SENSE. The Nose and Nasal Fossae. The organ of smell consists essentially of two parts : one external, the nose; the other internal, the nasal fossai. The Nose is the triangular pyramid projecting from the centre of the face, immediately above the upper lip. Superiorly, it is connected with the forehead, by means of a narrow bridge ; inferiorly, it presents two openings, the I nostrils, which overhang the mouth, and are so constructed that the odour of all substances must be received by the nose, before they can be introduced within the lips. The septum between the openings of the nostrils is called the columna. Their entrance is guarded by a number of stiff I hairs (vibrissce), which project across the openings, and act as a filter in preventing the introduction of foreign substances, such as dust, or insects, with the current of air intended for respiration. The anatomical elements of which the nose is composed are,—1. The integument; 2. Muscles; 3. Bones ; 4. Fibro- cartilages; 5. Mucous membrane ; 6. Vessels and nerves. 1. The Integument forming the tip (lobulus) and wings (alee) of the nose is extremely thick and dense, so as to be with difficulty separated from the fibro-cartilage. It is furnished with a number of sebaceous follicles, which by their oily secretion, protect the extremity of the nose in excessive alternations of temperature. The sebaceous matter of these follicles becomes of a dark colour upon, the surface, from the attraction of the carbonaceous matter floating in the atmosphere : hence the spotted appearance which the tip of the nose presents in large cities. When the integument is firmly compressed, the inspissated sebaceous secretion is squeezed out from the follicles, and retaining t e orm of their interior, has the appearance of small white maggots with black heads.276 NOSE. 2. The Muscles are brought into view by reflecting the integument: they are the pyramidalis nasi; compressor nasi; levator labii superioris alasque nasi; and depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi. They have been already described with the muscles of the face. 3. The Bones of the nose, are the nasal, and nasal pro- cesses of the superior maxillary. 4. The Fibro-cartilctges give form and stability to the outwork of the nose, providing at the same time, by their elasticity, against injuries. They are five in number, the Cartilage of the septum, Two lateral cartilages, Two alar cartilages. The Cartilage of the septum, somewhat triangular in form, divides the nose into its two nostrils. It is connected above with the nasal bones and lateral cartilages; behind with the ethmoidal septum and vomer; and below with the palate processes of the superior maxillary bones. The alar cartilages and columna move freely upon the cartilage of the septum, being but loosely connected with it by perichondrium. The Lateral cartilages are also triangular : they are con- nected, along the middle line, with the cartilage of the septum ; above, with the nasal bones; behind, with the nasal processes of the superior maxillaiy ; and below, with the alar cartilages. Alar cartilages. — Each of these cartilages is curved in such a manner as to correspond with the opening of the nostril, to which it forms a kind of rim. The inner portion is loosely connected with the same part of the opposite cartilage, so as to form the columna. It is ex- panded and thickened at the point of the nose to consti- tute the lobe; and, upon the side, expands into the oval form of the ala. Besides these, there are some small irregular cartila- ginous plates, which will be discovered in the course of the dissection, but which are unworthy a separate descrip- tion. The whole of these cartilages are connected with each other, and to the bones, by perichondrium, which, from its277 NASAL FOSS®. membranous structure, permits of the freedom of motion existing between them. 5. The Mucous membrane, lining the interior of the nose, is continuous with the skin externally, and with the pituitary membrane of the nasal fossae within. Around the entrance of the nostrils it is provided with the vi- brissce. 6. Vessels and Nerves. — The arteries of the nose are the lateralis nasi from the facial, and the nasalis septi from the superior coronary. Its Nerves are the facial, infra-orbital, and nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Nasal Foss.®. To obtain a good view of the nasalfossce, the face must be divided through the nose by a vertical incision, a little to one side of the middle line. The Nasalfossce are two irregular, compressed cavities, extending backwards from the nose to the pharynx. They are bounded, superiorly, by the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, lnferiorly, by the hard palate, and in the middle line they are separated from each other by a bony septum. The boundaries of this cavity will be more simply expressed in a tabular form, thus: — Nasal bones. Cribriform plate of ethmoid. Sphenoid. - C3 V. C3 "3 U •3 .2 • c3 Qj —- 3 ^ o — O ' »-n to 3 s- O i/ s-s. v v w c SSstE “ ?! _2 u « 3 a t: S W OO r* hS Nasal • S 3 +-» . a* Qj o j « Nasal fossa. A 3 —, O fossa. 3 3 •3 r- QJ S c -a, -On H>U O. £ s J §0 QJ bJO c o cu C/3 U 2 cu QJ <5 c c u - rt s I o*_s £ rH 73 W Palate process of superior maxillary bone. Palate process of palate bone. Upon the outer wall of each fossa, in the dried skull, are three projecting processes, termed spongy bones. TheMEATUSES. 278 two superior belong to the ethmoid, the inferior is a separate bone. In the fresh fossae these are covered with the mucous membrane, and serve to increase its surface by their projection and by their convoluted form. The space intervening between the two superior spongy bones is the superior meatus; the space between the superior and middle bones is the middle meatus ; and that between the inferior and floor of the fossa is the inferior meatus. These Meatuses are passages which extend from before backwards, and it is in rushing through and amongst these, that the atmosphere deposits its odorant particles upon the mucous membrane. There are several openings into the nasal fossae: thus, in the superior meatus, are the openings of the sphenoidal and posterior ethmoidal cells; in the middle, the anterior ethmoidal cells, the frontal sinuses, and the antrum max- illare ; and, in the inferior meatus, the termination of the nasal duct. In the dried bone there are two addi- rional openings, the spheno-palatine and the anterior palatine foramen, the former being situated in the superior, and the latter in the inferior meatus. The Mucous membrane of the nasal fossae is called pituitary or Schneiderian.* The former name being de- rived from its secretion, the latter from Schneider, who was the first to shew that the secretion of the nose pro- ceeded from the mucous membrane, and not from the brain, as was formerly imagined. It is continuous with the general pulmono-digestive mucous membrane, and may be traced through the openings in the meatuses, into the sphenoidal and ethmoidal cells, into the antrum max- illare, through the nasal duct to the surface of the eye, where it is continuous with the conjunctiva, along the Eustachian tubes into the tympanum and mastoid cells, to which it forms the lining membrane, and through the posterior nares into the pharynx and mouth, and thence through the lungs and alimentary canal. Vessels and Nerves- — The arteries of the nasal fossae are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the * Conrad Victor Schneider, professor of medicin at Wittenberg. Mis work, entitled De Catarrhis, &c., was published in 1661.i i ij a PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS. 279 ophthalmic and spheno-palatine, and pterygo-palatine from the internal maxillary. The Nerves are, the olfactory, the spheno-palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion, and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The Olfactory is the special nerve of smell. Its bulb gives off a considerable number of branches, which pass through the cribriform foramina, and spread upon the osseous surface of the mucous membrane, some passing to the septum, and others to the superior and middle spongy bones. The Spheno-'palatine nerves are branches of Meckel’s ganglion, which enter the fossae through the spheno- palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous mem- brane ; one branch, larger than the rest, crosses to the septum, and descends by its side to the anterior palatine canal, where it communicates with the naso-palatine ganglion. These nerves associate the organ of smell with the other organs of sense and of nutrition, by means of the sympathetic nerve. The Nasal nerve enters the nasal fossae through the most anterior of the openings in the cribriform lamella, and divides into two branches, one of which is distributed to the mucous membrane of the septum and around the nostril; the other passes between the cartilages of the nose, and is distributed to the integument on its ex- terior. Practical Observations. — The mucous membrane is rendered an organ of smell by the contact of the odorant particles. If the secretion be deficient, the contact is not appreciable, and there is loss of smell. Or, if the membrane be swollen and thickened, there is likewise loss of smell; both of these conditions are con- sequences of common cold. When haemorrhage occurs from the mucous membrane, it may proceed to so great an extent as to endanger life. In such a case the nasal fossae must be stopped from behind, by drawing a piece of dry sponge against the posterior nares. This is effected by introducing an in- strument, carrying a curved spring with an eye at the end of it, along the inferior meatus to the pharynx. The spring is then pressed onwards, and is directed by itsEYE. — TUNICS. 280 curve into the posterior part of the mouth ; the thread bearing the sponge is passed through the eye of the spring, and the instrument with the thread is withdrawn through the nose. The sponge is then carefully directed beneath the soft palate, and drawn gently against the posterior openings of the nose. Growths of various kinds (polypi) proceed from the mucous membrane, and increase to a great size, impeding nasal respiration, forcing the bones out of their places, and doing great mischief. They are generally attached by a narrow pedicle, and may be removed with the polypus forceps. In performing this operation, the direction of the meatuses must be recollected, otherwise there would be danger of entangling the instrument, and pulling away one of the spongy bones. When the tube of the stomach-pump cannot be passed through the mouth, it may be introduced into that viscus by passing it along the inferior meatus of the nose. Patients, with extensive injury to the jaws, have been nourished for a long time solely by liquid food poured into the stomach in this way. In obstruction of the nasal duct, it is often of great consequence to introduce a probe into it from the inferior meatus. This operation should therefore be practised upon the subject. The Eye, with its Appendages. The form of the eyeball is that of a sphere, having a segment of a smaller sphere ingrafted upon its anterior surface, which increases its antero-posterior diameter. The axes of the two eyeballs are parallel with each other, and do not correspond with the axes of the orbits, which are directed outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the orbits, and therefore enter the eyeballs to their nasal side. The Globe of the eye is composed of tunics and humours. The tunics are three in number, the ]. Sclerotic and cornea, 2. Choroid, iris, and ciliary processes, 3. Retina and zonula ciliaris.the globe of the eye. 8. The cornea. SCLEROTIC COAT. 231 The Humours are also three: — Aqueous, Crystalline (lens), Vitreous. 1. The Sclerotic and cornea form the external tunic of the eyeball, and give to it its peculiar form. Four-fifths of the globe are invested by the sclerotic, the remaining fifth by the cornea. Fig. 2f.* The Sclerotic {fig. 29. \.Jig.Zc2. l.) (er/cX^o?, hard) is a dense fibrous membrane, thicker behind than in front. It is continuous, posteriorly, with the sheath of the optic nerve, which is derived from the dura mater, and it is pierced by that nerve as well as by the ciliary nerves and arteries. Anteriorly it presents a bevelled edge, which receives the cornea in the same way that a watch-glass is received by the groove in its case. Its anterior surface is covered by a thin tendinous layer, the tunica albuginea * Fig. 29. The external tunic of the eye. No. 1. The sclerotic coat. 2. The tunica albuginea, formed by the expansion of the tendons of the four recfi muscles. 3. The in- sertion of the superior rectus. 4. The insertion of the inferior rectus. 5. The insertion of the external rectus. 6. Small openings in the sclerotic for the passage of the ciliary arteries and nerves. 7. The optic nerve, which becomes constricted at its point of entrance intoCORNEA. 282 {fig. 29. 2.), derived from the expansion of the tendons of the four recti muscles. By its posterior surface it gives attachment to the two oblique muscles. The tunica albuginea is covered, for a part of its extent, by the mucous membrane of the front of the eye, the conjunc- tiva. And, by reason of the brilliancy of its whiteness, gives occasion to the common expression, “ The white of the eye.” At the entrance of the optic nerve, the sclerotic forms a thin cribriform lamella {fig. 32. 2.) (lamina cribrosa), which is pierced by a number of minute openings for the passage of the nervous filaments. One of these openings, larger than the rest, and situated in the centre of the lamella, is the porus opticus through which the arteria centralis retinae enters the eye. The Cornea {fig. 29. 8., fig. 32. 3.) (corneus, horny) is the transparent projecting layer that forms the anterior fifth of the globe of the eye. In its form it resembles a watch-glass. In structure it consists of five or six thin lamellae, connected to each other by a delicate cellular tissue. It is covered by the conjunctiva in front, and lined by the membrane of the aqueous humour behind. By its edge, which is sharp and thin, it is received within the bevelled border of the sclerotic, to which it is very firmly attached. It is thicker than the anterior portion of the sclerotic. The cornea is not perfectly circular, the transverse diameter being slightly greater than the vertical. This form is particularly evident in animals. The opacity of the cornea, produced by pressure on the globe, results from the infiltration of fluid into the cellular tissue con- necting its layers. This appearance cannot be produced in a sound living eye. The sclerotic and cornea are now to be dissected away from the second tunic; this, with care, may be easily performed, the only con- nections subsisting between them being at the circumference of the iris, the entrance of the optic nerve, and the perforation of the ciliary nerves and arteries. Pinch up a fold of the sclerotic near its anterior circumference, and make a small opening into it, then raise the edge of the tunic, and with a pair of fine scissors, having a probe point, divide the entire circumference of the sclerotic, and cut it away bit by bit. Then separate it from its attachment around the circumference283 CHOROID COAT. of the iris by a gentle pressure with the edge of the knife. The dis- section of the eye must be conducted under water. In the course of this dissection the ciliary nei'ves and long ciliary arteries will be seen passing forwards between the sclerotic and choroid, to be distributed to the iris. 2. The Second tunic (fig. 30.) of the eye-ball is formed by the choroid and iris; the ciliary processes being an appendage developed from its inner surface. The Choroid \ (fig. 30. l., fig. 32. 4.) is a vascular membrane of a rich chocolate brown colour upon its external surface, and of a deep black colour within. It is : * Fig. 30. The second tunic of the eye. No. 1. The choroid membrane upon which are seen the curved lines marking the arrangement of the venaj vorticosas. 2. 2. Ciliary nerves. 3. A long ciliary artery and nerve. 4. The ciliary ligament. 5. The iris; the two sets of fibres are very distinctly seen, the external, radiating towards the centre, and the internal, circular, surrounding the pupil 6. f The word choroid has been very much abused in anatomical lan- guage ; it was originally applied to the membrane of the foetus called chorion, from the Greek word x°P10l,> domicilium, that membrane being, as it were, the abode or receptacle of the foetus. Xopiov comes from xuPeu> to take or receive. Now it so happens that the chorion in the ovum is a vascular membrane of a peculiar structure. Hence the termchoroid x°PiOV «<8or, like thechorion, has been used indiscriminately to signify vascular structures, as in the choroid membrane of the eye, the choroid plexus, &c., and we find Cruveilhier in his admirable work on Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 463., saying in a note, “ Choroide est synonyme de vasculeuse.”284 CILIARY LIGAMENT. connected to the sclerotic externally by an extremely fine cellular tissue, and by the passage of nerves and vessels. Internally it is in simple contact with the third tunic of the eye, the retina. It is pierced posteriorly for the passage of the optic nerve, and is connected ante- riorly with the iris, ciliary processes, and junction of the cornea and sclerotic, by a dense white structure, the ciliary ligament, which surrounds the circumference of the iris like a ring. The choroid membrane is composed of three layers, — 1. an external venous, which consists principally of veins arranged in a peculiar manner : hence they have been named vence vorticosce. The marking upon the surface of the membrane produced by these veins resembles so many centres, to which a number of curved lines con- verge. It is this layer which is connected with the ciliary ligament. 2. The middle, or arterial layer (tunica Ruy- schiana *) is formed principally of the ramifications of minute arteries, and secretes upon its surface the pig- mentum nigrum. It is reflected inwards at its junction with the ciliary ligament, so as to form the ciliary pro- cesses. 3. The internal layer is a delicate membrane (membrana pigmenti) which retains the pigmentum nigrum in its place. This membrane presents a beautiful appear- ance beneath the microscope, being composed of regular hexagonal plates, and resembling a tessellated pavement. In animals the pigmentum nigrum is replaced by a layer of metallic brilliancy, called the tapetum. The Ciliary ligament, or circle {Jig- 30. 4., Jig. 32. 5.), is the bond of union between the external and middle tunics of the eye, and serves to connect the cornea and sclerotic with the iris and external layer of the choroid. It is also the point to which the ciliary nerves and vessels proceed previously to their distribution, and it receives the anterior ciliary arteries through the anterior margin of the sclerotic. A minute vascular canal is situated within * Ruvsch was born at the Hague in 1638, and was appointed pro- fessor of Anatomy at Amsterdam in 1665. His whole life was em- ployed in making injected preparations, for which he is justly cele- brated. He came to the conclusion that the body was entirely made up of vessels. He died at the advanced age of 93 years.IRIS. CILIARY PROCESSES. 285 the ciliary ligament, called the ciliary canal, or the canal of Fontana f, from its discoverer. The Iris (Jig. 30. 5., Jig. 32. 6.) (iris, a rainbow) is so named from its variety of colour in different individuals : it forms a septum between the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye, and is pierced in its centre by a circular opening, which is called the pupil (Jig. 30. 6., Jig. 32.*). By its periphery it is connected with the ciliary ligament, and by its inner circumference forms the margin of the pupil: its anterior surface looks towards the cornea, and the posterior towards the ciliary processes and lens. It is composed of two layers, an anterior, or Jibrous, consisting of radiating fibres which converge from the circumference towards the centre, and have the power of dilating the pupil, and circular, which surround the pupil like a sphincter, and by their action produce con- traction of its area. The posterior layer is of a deep purple tint, and is thence named uvea, from its resem- blance in colour to a ripe grape. The Ciliary processes may be seen in two ways, either by removing the iris from its attachment to the ciliary ligament, when a front view of the processes will be obtained, or by making a transverse section through the globe of the eye, when they may be examined from behind. The ciliary processes consist of a number of triangular folds, formed apparently by the plaiting of the internal layer of the choroid. They are, according to Zinn, about sixty in number, and may be divided into large and small, the latter being situated in the spaces between the former. The base of each triangle is situated towards the circumference of the eye, the apex towards the centre. The periphery is connected with the ciliary ligament, and is continuous with the internal layer of the choroid. I he central border is free, and rests against the circum- ference of the lens. The anterior surface corresponds with the uvea; the posterior receives the folds of the t, Felix Fontana, an anatomist of Tuscany. His “ Description of a New Canal in the Eye," was published in 1778, in a letter to the Professor of Anatomy in Upsal.286 THIRD TUNIC. — RETINA. zonula ciliaris between its processes, and thus establishes a connection between the choroid and hyaloid membrane. The ciliary processes are covered by a thick layer of pigmentum nigrum, which is more abundant upon them and upon the anterior part of the choroid than upon the posterior. When the pigment is washed off, the processes are of a whitish colour. 3. The Third tunic {fig. 31.) of the eye is the retina, which is prolonged forwards to the lens by the zonula ciliaris. Dissection. — If after the preceding dissection the choroid mem- brane be carefully raised and removed, the eye being kept under water, the retina will be seen very distinctly. The Retina {fig. 31. l.,fig. 32. 8.) is composed of three layers : — External, or Jacob’s membrane, Middle, Nervous membrane, Internal, Vascular membrane. Jacob’s membrane is extremely thin, and is seen as a flocculent film when the eye is suspended in water. It is the supporting membrane to the nervous substance of the second layer. Dr. Jacob considers it a serous mem- brane. The Nervous membrane is the expansion of the optic * Fig. 31. The third tunic of the eye. No. 1. The retina terminating anteriorly in a scolloped border. 2. The foramen of Soemmering. 3. The zonula ciliaris. 4. The lens.ZONULA CILIARIS. 287 nerve, and forms a thin semi-transparent bluish white layer, which envelopes the vitreous humour, and extends forwards to the commencement of the ciliary processes, where it terminates in an abrupt scolloped margin. The Vascular membrane consists of the ramifications of a minute artery, the arteria centralis retinae, which pierces the optic nerve and enters the globe of the eye through the porus opticus in the centre of the lamina cribrosa. This artery may be seen very distinctly by making a transverse section of the eyeball. Its branches are continuous anteriorly with the zonula ciliaris. The retina is deficient posteriorly at a spot correspond- ing with the axis of the globe of the eye. This spot is called the foramen of Soemmeiing * {fig. 31. 2.), and is sur- rounded by a yellow halo, the limbus luteus. It exists only in animals having the axis of the eyeballs parallel with each other, as man, quadrumana, and some reptiles. The Zonula ciliaris {fig. 31.3.fig. 32. 9.), (Zonula of Zinn f) is a thin vascular layer which connects the an- terior margin of the retina with the circumference of the lens. It presents upon its surface a number of small folds corresponding with the ciliary processes, between which they are received. These processes are arranged in the form of rays around the lens, and the spaces be- tween them are stained by the pigmentum nigrum of the ciliary processes. They appear to derive their vessels from the vascular layer of the retina. The under surface of the zonula is in contact with the hyaloid membrane, and around the lens forms the anterior fluted wall of the canal of Petit. The connection between these folds and the ciliary processes, may be very easily demonstrated by dividing an eye transversely into two portions, then raising the anterior half, and allowing the vitreous humours to sepa- rate from its attachment by its own weight. The folds * Samuel Thomas Soemmering is celebrated for the beautiful and accurate plates which accompany bis works. The account “ De humanae> hrnbo luteo cincto,” was published in 1719, ,n the Commentationes Soc. Reg. Scient. Gotlivgevsis. f John Gottfried Zinn, professor of Anatomy in Gottingen: his Dcacnptio Analomica Oculi Humaniwas published in 1755 ; with excellent plates. It was republished by Wrisberg in 1780.288 HUMOURS OF THE EYE. of the zonula will then be seen to be drawn out from between the folds of the ciliary processes. The Humours of the eye are each provided with its proper membrane. The Aqueous humour is situated in the anterior and pos- terior chambers of the eye. The Anterior chamber {Jig. 32. 12.) is the space inter- vening between the cornea in front, and the iris and pupil behind. The Posterior chamber, smaller than the anterior, is the narrow space bounded by the posterior surface of the * Fig. 32. A longitudinal section of the globe of the eye. No. 1. The sclerotic, thicker behind than in front. 2. The lamina cribrosa; the thin layer of the sclerotic, which is pierced with holes for the passage of the nervous substance of the optic nerve. 3. The cornea, which is seen to be inserted into the border of the sclerotic coat. 4. The choroid membrane (the dark layer). 5. The ciliary ligament. 6. The iris. * The pupil. 7. The ciliary pro- cesses. 8. The retina (the white layer). 9. The dotted line repre- sents the zonula ciliaris, which is continued from the anterior border of the retina to the capsule of the lens. 10. The innermost line is the hyaloid membrane, which may be followed behind the lens. 11. The canal of Petit. 12. The anterior chamber of the eye. The narrow space between the iris and the ciliary processes and lens is the pos- terior chamber. 13. The lens inclosed in its capsule. 14. The posterior cavity of the globe, in which the vitreous humour is lodged. 15. A minute artery, a branch of the arteria centralis retince, which traverses the centre of the vitreous humour to reach the capsule of the lens.VITREOUS HUMOUR. 289 LENS. iris and pupil in front, and by the ciliary process and lens I behind. The two chambers are lined by a thin layer, the secre- ting membrane of the aqueous humour. The Vitreous humour forms the principal bulk of the globe of the eye. It is enclosed in a delicate membrane, the hyaloid {fig. 32. 10.), which sends processes into its interior, forming cells in which the humour is retained. A small artery, 15., may sometimes be traced through the centre of the vitreous humour to the capsule of the lens. It is surrounded by a sheath of the hyaloid mem- brane, which is reflected forwards with it. This vessel is easily injected in the foetus. The Crystalline humour or lens {fig. 32. 13.) is situated immediately behind the pupil, and is surrounded by the ciliary processes, which slightly overlap its margin. It is more convex on the posterior than on the anterior sur- i j face, and is embedded in the anterior part of the vitreous humour, from which it is separated by the hyaloid mem- brane. It is invested by a proper capsule, which contains a small quantity of fluid called liquor Morgagni *, and s is retained in its place by the attachment of the zonula I ciliaris. The lens consists of concentric layers, of which the I external are soft, the next firmer, and the central form a » hardened nucleus. These layers are best demonstrated u by boiling, when they separate easily from each other. An- t other division of the lens takes place at the same time: it splits into three triangular segments, which have the sharp I! edge directed towards the centre, and the base towards >| the circumference. Immediately around the circumference of the lens is a triangular canal, the canal of Petit f {fig. 32. 11.), which is bounded in front by the flutings of the zonula ciliaris, behind by the hyaloid membrane, and within by the bor- ier of the lens. • * John Baptist Morgagni was born in 1682. He was appointed iro , °r of medicine in Bologna, and published the first part of his ‘ Adversaria Anatomica,” in 1706. lie died in 1771 f John Louis Petit, a celebrated French surgeon he published everal suigical and anatomical essays, in the early part of the 18th entury. He died in 1750.PHYSIOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 290 The Vessels of the globe of the eye are the long and short and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria centra- lis retinae. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and pass forward on each side between that membrane and the choroid, to the ciliary ligament, where they divide into two branches, which are distributed to the iris. The short ciliary arteries pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic coat, and are distributed to the internal layer of the choroid mem- brane. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular arteries. They enter the eye through the anterior part of the sclerotic, and are distributed to the iris. It is the increased number of these arteries in iritis that forms the peculiar red zone around the circumference of the cornea. The Arteria centralis retinae enters the optic nerve at about half an inch from the globe of the eye, and passing through the porus opticus is distributed upon the inner surface of the retina, forming its vasc.ular layer; one branch pierces the centre of the vitreous humour, and supplies the capsule of the lens. The Nerves of the eyeball are the optic, two ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the fifth, and the ciliary nerves from the lenticular ganglion. Observations. — The sclerotic is a tunic of protection, and the cornea a medium for the transmission of light. The choroid supports the vessels destined for the nou- rishment of the eye, and by its pigmentum nigrum ab- sorbs all loose and scattered rays that might confuse the image impressed upon the retina. The iris, by means of its powers of expansion and contraction, regulates the quantity of light admitted through the pupil. If the iris be thin, and the rays of light pass through its substance, they are immediately absorbed by the uvea, and if that layer be insufficient, they are taken up by the black pig- ment of the ciliary processes. In Albinoes, where there is a deficiency of pigmentum nigrum, the rays of light traverse the iris and even the sclerotic, and so overwhelm the eye with light, that sight is destroyed, except in the dimness of evening, or at night. In the manufacture of optical instruments, care is taken to colour their interior black with the same object, the absorption of scattered rays. The transparent Iamellated cornea and the humours ofAPPENDAGES OF THE EYE. 291 o 2 the eye have for their office the refraction of the rays in such proportion as to direct the image in the most favour- able manner upon the retina. Where the refracting medium is too great, as in over convexity of the cornea and lens, the image is thrown beyond the retina (pres- byopia, long-sightedness) ; and where it is too little, the image falls short of the nervous membrane (myopia, short- sightedness). These conditions are rectified by the use of spectacles, which provide a differently refracting medium external to the eye, and thereby correct the transmission of light. Appendages of the Eye. The Appendages of the eye (tutamina oculi) are the eyebrows, eyelids, eyelashes, conjunctiva, caruncula lachry- malis, and the lachrymal apparatus. The Eyebrows {supercilia) are two projecting arches of integument covered with short thick hairs, which form the upper boundary of the orbits. They are connected beneath with the orbicularis, occipito-frontalis, and corru- gator supercilii muscles; their use is to shade the eyes from a too vivid light, or protect them from particles of dust and moisture flowing over the forehead. The Eyelids {palpebrce) are two valvular layers placed in front of the eye, which defend it from injury by their closure. When they are drawn open they leave between them an elliptic space, the angles of which are called canthi. Near to the inner canthus two small projections {fig. 33. 5.) are observed on both lids, upon which are seen the openings of the lachrymal ducts (puncta lachry- mal ia). Hence they are named lachrymal tubercles. The eyelids have, entering into their structure, integu- ment, orbicularis muscle, tarsal cartilages, Meibomian glands, and conjunctiva. The tegumentary cellular tissue of the eyelids is re- markable for its looseness and entire absence of adipose substance. It is particularly liable to serous infiltration. I he fibres of the orbicularis muscle covering the eyelids, are extremely thin and pale. The Tut sal cartilages are two thin lamellae of fibro- cartiiage, which give form and support to the eyelids. I lie superior {fig. 33. 1.) is of a semilunar form, broad in292 MEIBOMIAN GLANDS. the middle, and tapering to each extremity. Its lower border is broad and flat, its upper is thin, and gives at- tachment to the levator palpebrae and to the fibrous mem- brane of the lids. The Inferior fibro-cartilage {fig. 33. 2.) is a narrow elliptical band situated in the substance of the lower lid. Its upper border is flat, and corresponds with the flat edge of the upper cartilage. The lower is held in its place by the fibrous membrane. The cartilages do not extend quite so far as the angles of the lids. The Fibrous membrane of the lids is firmly attached to the periosteum, around the margin of the orbit, bjr its circumference, and to the tarsal cartilages by its central margin. It is thick and dense on the outer half of the orbit, but becomes thin to its inner side. Its use is to retain the tarsal cartilages in their place, and give support to the lids ; hence it has been named the broad tarsal ligament. The Meibomian glands * are embedded in the internal surface of the cartilages, and are very distinctly seen on examining the inner surface of the lids. They have the appearance of parallel strings of pearls, about twenty or twenty-four upon each cartilage, and open by minute foramina {fig- 33. 1. 2.) upon the edges of the lids. They correspond in length with the breadth of the cartilage, and are consequently longer in the upper than in the lower lid. Each gland consists of a single lengthened follicle or tube, into which a number of small rounded follicles open ; the latter are so numerous as almost to conceal the tube by which the secretion is poured out upon the margin of the lids. They are figured, after a very careful examination, in Dr. Quain's “ Elements of Anatomy.” Occasionally an arch is formed between two of them, as is seen in that figure, and produces a very graceful appear- ance. The edges of the eyelids are furnished with a triple row of long thick hairs, which curve upwards from the upper lid, and downwards from the lower, so that they may not interlace with each other in the closure of the eyelids, and prove an impediment to the opening of the eyes. These are the eyelashes {cilia), important organs ♦ Henry Mcibomius, “ de Vasis Palpebrarum Novis,” 1666.CONJUNCTIVA. 293 of defence to the sensitive surface of so delicate an organ as the eye. The Conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It covers the whole of its anterior surface, and is then reflected upon the lids so as to form their internal layer. It*is very thin, and closely adherent where it covers the cornea, and no vessels can be traced into it. Upon the sclerotica it is thicker and less adherent, and to the inner surface of the lids is connected by loose cellular tissue. It is continuous with the general pulmono-digestive mucous membrane, and sympathises in its affections, as may be observed in various diseases. From the surface of the eye it may be traced through the lachrymal ducts into the lachrymal gland, along the edges of the lids ; it is continuous with the mucous lining of the Meibomian glands, and at the inner angle of the eye may be traced through the puncta lachrymalia into the lachrymal sac, and thence downwards through the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The Caruncuia lachrymalis {Jig. 33. 3.) is the small reddish body which occupies the inner angle or canthus of the eye. In health it presents a bright pink tinge, in sickness it loses its colour and becomes pale. It con- sists in an assemblage of mucous follicles, and is the source of the whitish secretion which so constantly forms at the inner angle of the eye. It is frequently found studded with short hairs. Immediately to the outer side of the caruncuia, is a slight duplicature of the conjunctiva, called plica semi- lunaris, which is the rudiment of the third lid of animals, the membrana nictitans of birds. Vessels and nerves.— The palpebrae are supplied internally with arteries from the ophthalmic, and exter- nally fi om the facial and transverse facial. Their nerves are branches of the fifth and of the facial. Lachrymal Apparatus. The Lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland and excretory ducts, the puncta lachrymalia and lachrymal sac. The Lachrymal gland {Jig. 33. 4.) is a small flattened bo y having two lobes, situated at the upper and outer o 3294 LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. Puncta laclirymalia. — Near to the inner canthus are two slight projections on the edges of the eyelids. These are the lachrymal tubercles {Jig. 33. 5.), and upon the point of each may be seen a small opening, the punc- tum lachrymale, the commencement of the corresponding lachrymal duct. From these points the lachrymal ducts, 6. 6., proceed to the lachrymal sac. The superior duct * Fig. 33. The lachrymal apparatus and tarsal cartilages of the eyelids. No. 1. The tarsal cartilage of the upper lid. 2. The tarsal car- tilage of the lower lid ; — the-openings along the edges of the lids are those of the Meibomian ducts. 3. The caruncula lachrymalis. 4. The lachrymal gland pouring out its secretion by seven small ducts, 5. The lachrymal tubercles with the openings of the lachrymal ducts called puncta lachrymalia. 6. 6. The lachrymal ducts. 7. The lachrymal sac. 8. The nasal duct. 9. Its termination in the in- ferior meatus of the nose. 10. The inferior turbinated bone. angle of the eye, resting upon the eyeball by its under surface, and against the wall of the orbit by the upper. Its secretion is poured out upon the surface 'of the con- junctiva by seven small excretory ducts.NASAL DUCT. 295 first ascends, then turns suddenly inwards towards the sac, forming an abrupt angle. The inferior duct forms the same kind of angle, by descending at first, and then turning abruptly inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure, and remain constantly open, so that they act like capillary tubes in absorbing the tears from the surface of the eye. The two fasciculi of the tensor tarsi muscle are inserted into these ducts, and serve to draw them inwards. The Lachrymal sac (jig. 33. 7.) is the upper extremity of the nasal duct, and is not more dilated than any other portion of the canal. It is lodged in the groove of the lachrymal bone, and is often distinguished internally from the nasal duct by a semilunar or circular valve. It con- sists of mucous membrane, but is covered in and retained in its place by a fibrous expansion, derived from the tendon of the orbicularis, which is inserted into the ridge on the lachrymal bone. It is also covered by the tensor tarsi muscle, which arises from the same ridge, and in its action upon the lachrymal ducts may serve to compress the lachrymal sac. The Nasal duct (fig. 33. 8.) is a short canal directed downwards and backwards and a little inwards to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates. It is lined by the mucous membrane, which is continuous with the conjunctiva above and the pituitary membrane of the nose below. Obstruction to this duct gives origin to the disease called fistula lachrymalis. Vessels and nerves. — The lachrymal gland is sup- plied with blood by the lachrymal branch of the ophthal- mic artery, and with nerves by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic and orbital branch of the superior maxillary. The Organ of Hearing. The Ear is composed of three parts,—]. external ear ; 2. middle ear, or tympanum; 3. internal ear, or laby- rinth. J The External ear consists of two portions, the pinna anti meatus; the former representing a kind of funnel which collects the vibrations of the atmosphere, called sount s, and the latter a tube which conveys the vibrations to the tympanum. o 41296 ORGAN OR HEARING. The Pinna presents a number of folds and hollows upon its surface, which have different names assigned to them. Thus the external folded margin is called the helix a fold). The elevation parallel to and in front of the helix is called antihelix (avrt, opposite). The pointed process, projecting like a valve over the opening of the ear from the face, is called the tragus (rpayos, a goat), probably from being sometimes covered with bristly hair like that of a goat; and a tubercle oppo- site to it is the antitragus. The lower dependent and fleshy portion of the pinna is the lohulus. The space between the helix and antihelix is named the fossa inno- minata. Another depression is observed on the upper extremity of the antihelix, which bifurcates and leaves a triangular space between its branches called the scaphoid fossa; and the large central space to which all the channels converge is the concha, which opens directly into the meatus. The pinna is composed of integument, fibro-carlilage, and muscles. The Integument is thin, and closely connected with the fibro-cartilage. The Fibro-cartilage gives form to the pinna, and sur- rounds the commencement of the meatus. It is firmly attached to the external auditory process, and is deficient in the lobulus. The proper Muscles of the pinna are the Major helicis, Minor helicis, Tragicus, Antitragicus, Transversus auriculae. The Major helicis is a narrow band of muscular fibres situated upon the anterior border of the helix, just above the tragus. The Minor helicis is placed upon the posterior ex- tremity of the helix. The Tragicus is a thin layer of muscular fibres, situated upon the tragus. The Antitragicus arises from the antitragus, and is in* serted into the posterior part of the helix.297 MEATUS AUDITORIUS.— TYMPANUM. O 5 The Trcinsvei'sns auriculce, partly tendinous and partly muscular, extends transversely from the convexity of the concha to that of the helix, on the posterior surface of the pinna. These muscles are rudimentary in the human ear, and deserve only the title of muscles in the ears of animals. Two other muscles are described by Mr. Tod *, the obliquus auris and contractor meatus, or trago-helicus. There are also a number of ligaments which connect the opposite borders of the fissures in the fibro-cartilage. The Meatus auditorius is a canal, partly cartilaginous and partly osseous, about an inch in length, which extends inwards and a little forwards from the concha to the tym- panum. It is narrower in the middle than at each extremity, and forms an oval cylinder, the long diameter being vertical; and is slightly curved upon itself, the concavity looking downwards. It is lined by an extremely thin pouch of cuticle, which, when withdrawn after maceration, preserves the form of the meatus. Some stiff short hairs are also found in its interior, which stretch across the tube, and prevent the ingress of insects and dust. Beneath the cuticle are a number of small ceruminous follicles, which secrete the wax of the ear. Vessels and nerves. — The pinna is plentifully sup- plied with arteries; by the anterior auricular from the tem- poral, and by the posterior auricular from the external carotid. Its Nerves are derived from the auricular branch of the fifth, and the auricularis magnus of the cervical plexus. Tympanum. — The tympanum is an irregular bony cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated within the petrous bone. It is bounded externally by the meatus and membrana tympani; internally, by its inner wall; and in its circumference by the petrous bone and The Membrana tympani is stretched obliquely from above downwards across the extremity of the meatus auditorius, and gives attachment by its centre and inner Da^d?oVl83t20.IT,yand of thc Organ of Hearing,- by298 OSSICULA AUDITUS. surface to the handle of the malleus. It is depressed towards the centre, and is concave towards the meatus, and convex towards the tympanum. It is composed of three layers, an external cuticular, middle fibrous and mus- cular, and internal mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum. The tympanum contains four small bones, ossicula anditus, viz. the Malleus, Incus, Orbiculare, Stapes. The Malleus (hammer) consists of a head, neck, handle (manubrium), and two processes, long (processus gracilis) and short (processus brevis). It is attached by the manu- brium to the membrana tympani, the extremity of the handle extending to the centre of that membrane. Its connection is effected by being inserted between the mucous lining and the fibrous and muscular layer. Its long process descends to the fissura Glaseri *, and gives attachment to the laxator tympani muscle. Into the short process is inserted the tendon of the tensor tym- pani, and the head of the bone articulates with the incus. The Incus (anvil) is named from an imagined resem- blance to an anvil. It has also been likened to a bicuspid tooth, having one root longer, and widely separated from the other. It consists of two processes, which join each other nearly at right angles, and at their junction form a flattened body, which articulates with the head of the malleus. The short process is free ; the long process descends nearly parallel with the handle of the malleus, and curves inwards, near to its termination, to articulate with the os orbiculare. The Os orbiculare is a small spherical bone, distinct in the foetus, but anchylosed to the long process of the incus in the adult, and appearing only as a process of that bone. It articulates with the head of the stapes. The Stapes is shaped like a stirrup, to which it bears a * John Henry Glaser. His principal work “De Cerebro,” was pub- lished in 1680 at Basle, after his death.299 MUSCLES OF THE TYMPANUM. very close resemblance. Its head articulates with the os orbiculare, and the two branches are connected at its extremity by a flat oval-shaped plate, representing the foot of the stirrup, which fits accurately the opening from the tympanum into the vestibule, the fenestra ovalis. The neck of the stapes gives attachment to the stapedius muscle. The Muscles of the tympanum are also four, the Tensor tympani, Laxator tympani, Laxator tympani minor, Stapedius. To these Mr. Tod has added five others, the posterior mallei, superior capitis mallei, obliquus incudis externus posterior, triangularis incudis, and musculus, or structural stapedius inferior; for the history of which we must refer the lover of minute anatomy to the work previously quoted. The Tensor tympani arises from the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the Eustachian tube, and passes forwards in a distinct canal separated from the tube by the processus cochleariformis, to be inserted into the short process of the malleus. The Laxator tympani arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and passes through an opening in the fissura Glaseri, to be inserted into the long process of ; the malleus. The Laxator tympani minor arises from the upper margin of the meatus, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus. The Stapedius arises from the interior of the pyramid, and escapes from its summit to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. The openings in the tympanum are ten in number, five large and five small; they are the Laige openings. Small openings. Meatus auditorius, Entrance of the chorda tympani, Exit of the chorda tympani, 1‘or the laxator tympani, For the tensor tympani, For the stapedius, o 6 Fenestra ovalis, Fenestra rotunda, Mastoid cells, Eustachian tube.OPENINGS IN THE TYMPANUM. 300 The opening of the Meatus auditorius has been already described. The Fenestra ovalis {jig. 34. 3.) is an oval opening, situated in the upper part of the inner wall of the tym- panum, directly opposite the meatus ; it is the opening of communication between the tympanum and vestibule, and is closed by the foot of the stapes and by the lining membranes of both cavities. The Fenestra rotunda {jig. 34. 5.) is somewhat trian- gular in its form, and situated in the inner wall of the tympanum, below and rather posteriorly to the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a bony elevation, called the promontory, 4. It serves to communicate the tympanum with the cochlea. In the fresh subject it is closed by a proper membrane, as well as by the mucous lining of both cavities. The Mastoid cells are very numerous, and occupy the whole of the interior of the mastoid process, and part of the petrous bone. They communicate by a large irregular opening {jig. 34. 12.) with the upper and posterior cir- cumference of the tympanum. The Eustachian tube {jig. 34. 6.) is a canal of commu- nication extending obliquely between the pharynx and the anterior circumference of the tympanum. In structure it is partly fibro-cartilaginous and partly osseous, is broad and expanded at its pharyngeal extremity, and narrow and compressed at the tympanum. Fig. 34.* * Fi". 34. Tlie tympanum of the left ear. No. 1. Its inner wall. 2. A convex ridge marking the situation of the aqueductus Fallopii; the star shows its termination on the faceARRANGEMENT. 301 The Smaller openings serve for the transmission of the chorda tympani nerve, and three of the muscles of the tympanum. The Oldening (Jig. 34-. 10.) by which the chorda tympani enters the tympanum, is near the root of the pyramid, at about the middle of the posterior wall. The Opening of exit ( Jig. 34-. 9.) of the chorda tympani, is at the fissura Glaseri in the anterior wall of the tym- panum. The Opening for the laxator tympani muscle (Jig. 34.8.) is also situated in the fissura Glaseri, in the anterior xvall of the tympanum. The Opening for the tensor tympani muscle (Jig. 34. 7.) is in the anterior wall, immediately above the opening of the Eustachian tube. The Opening for the stapedius muscle is at the apex of aconical bony eminence, called the pyramid (Jig. 34. 11.), which is situated on the posterior wall of the tympanum, immediately behind the fenestra ovalis. Directly above the fenestra ovalis is a rounded ridge (fg.S^. 2.), formed by the projection of the aqueductus Fallopii. Beneath the fenestra ovalis, and separating it from the fenestra rotunda, is the prcrmontory (Jig. 34. 4.), a rounded projection channelled upon its surface by three small grooves, which lodge the three tympanic branches of Jacobson’s nerve. The Foramina and processes of the tympanum may be arranged into four groups, according to their situation. 1. In the External wall is the meatus auditorius, closed by the membrana tympani. of the section, in its course downwards to the stylo-mastoid foramen. .5. 1 he fenestra ovalis. 4. the promontory. 5. The fenestra rotunda. Anteriorly (6.) is the entrance of the Eustachian tube. 7. The open- ing for the tensor tympani. 8. The opening for the laxator tympani • and (9.) the opening of exit for the chorda tympani nerve. Posteriorly (10.) is the opening of entrance for the chorda tympani; and (11.) the pyramid with the small opening at its apex which gives passage to th,° 8taPe<hu8 muscle. Superiorly is a large opening (12.) leading backwards to the mastoid cells.BOUNDARIES OF THE TYMPANUM. 302 2. In the Inner wall (Jig. 34.), from above downwards, are the Ridge of the aqueductus Fallopii, 2., Fenestra ovalis, 3., Promontory, 4., Grooves for Jacobson’s nerve, Fenestra rotunda, 5. 3. In the Posterior to all are the Opening of the mastoid cells, 12., Pyramid, ll., Opening for the stapedius, Apertura chordae (entrance), lo. 4. In the Anterior ivall are the Eustachian tube, 6., Opening for the tensor tympani, 7., Opening for the laxator tympani, 8., Apertura chordae (exit), 9. The tympanum is lined by a vascular mucous membrane, which invests the ossicula and chorda tympani, and forms the internal layer of the membrana tympani. From the tympanum it is reflected into the mastoid cells, which it lines throughout, and passes through the Eustachian tube to become continuous with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Vessels and nerves. — The Arteries of the tympanum are derived from the internal maxillary, internal carotid, and posterior auricular. Its Nerves are — I. Minute branches of the facial, which are distributed to the muscles. 2. The chorda tympani, which leaves the facial nerve near the stylo- mastoid foramen, and arches upwards to enter the tym- panum at the root of the pyramid ; it then passes forwards between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, to the opening in the fissura Glaseri. 3. The tympanic branches of Jacobson's nerve, which are distri- buted to the membranes of the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda, and to the Eustachian tube, and form a plexus by communicating with the carotid plexus and otic gan- glion./ INTERNAL EAR. — VESTIBULE. 303 Internal Ear. The Internal ear is called labyrinth, from the com- plexity of its communications, and consists of a series of cavities which are channelled through the substance of the petrous bone. It is situated between the cavity of the tympanum and the meatus auditorius interims. The Labyrinth (fig. 35.) consists of the Vestibule, Semicircular canals, Cochlea. The Vestibule is a small oval cavity, situated imme- diately within the inner wall of the tympanum. It is named vestibule, from being, as it were, the hall of com- munication between the other cavities of the ear. It therefore presents a number of openings corresponding with these different cavities. They may be arranged, like those of the tympanum, into large and small. The Large openings are seven in number, viz. the Fenestra ovalis, Scala vestibuli, Five openings of the three semicircular canals. The Small openings are the Aqueductus vestibuli, Openings for small arteries, Three openings for branches of the auditory nerve. The Fenestra ovalis {fig. 34-. 3. fig. 35. 2.) is closed by the lining membrane of the vestibule, and by the foot of the stapes. It is the opening into the tympanum. The opening of the Scala vestibuli is the communication between the vestibule and the cochlea. The Aqueductus vestibuli is the commencement of the small canal which opens upon the posterior surface of the petrous bone. It gives passage to a small vein, which terminates in the superior petrosal sinus. The Openings for the arteries and nerves are situated in the internal wall of the vestibule, and correspond with the termination of the meatus auditorius internus. I he Semicircular canals are three bony passages which communicate with the vestibule; one is perpendicular304< SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. (Jig. 35. 3.) in its direction, and corresponds with a tuber- cle upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone ; another is oblique, 6.; and the third is horizontal, 8. Each canal presents a dilatation at one extremity, which is called ampulla, 4. 9. 7. The two undilated extremities of the perpendicular and oblique canals unite to form a sin- gle tube, 5.; all the others open singly into the ves- tibule, hence the Jive open- ings of the three canals. The vestibule contains two sacs formed by the expan- sion of the auditory nerve. The larger of these is the utriculus communis, the smaller the sacculus proprius. The semicircular canals contain tubes of nervous mem- brane, which communicate with the utriculus communis, and form three dilatations corresponding with the ampullae at the extremities of the canals. These sacs, together with the nervous tubes lodged in the canals, contain a limpid secretion, which is called liquor of Cotunnius. f The sacs likewise contain a calcareous deposit, which is analogous to the otolites or calcareous crystalline masses found in the vestibular sac of fishes. This deposit has been recently described by Breschet, and is called by him Otoconite (ovc, the ear — kovi?, dust). The sacs and membranous canals do not completely fill * Fig. 35. The labyrinth of the left ear. No. 1. The vestibule. 2. The fenestra ovalis, in its natural position, looking from the meatus auditorius externus; the en- trance into the vestibule from the tympanum. 3. The perpendicular semicircular canal. 4. Its ampulla. 5. Its union with the oblique canal. 6. The oblique semicircular canal. 7. Its ampulla. 8. The horizontal semicircular canal. 9. Its ampulla. 10. The cochlea, in- ternal to and rather in frontof the vestibule. 11. The fenestra rotunda, the entrance into the scala tympani of the cochlea. 12. The canal of the cochlea leading from the fenestra rotunda to make its first turn. 13. The extremity of the canal called the cupola. f Dominico Cotunnius, an Italian physician ; his dissertation “ De Aquaxluctibus Auris Humana; Interna;,” was published in Naples, in 1761.COCHLEA. 305 the cavities of the bone, but leave a space which is occupied by another fluid, the liquor of Scarpa* or aqua labyrinthi. The vestibule and semicircular canals are lined by a thin mucous membrane which secretes the aqua labyrinthi. The Cochlea (fig. 35. 10.) (snail shell) is a spiral canal, which describes two turns and a half around a central pillar which is called modiolus. It is situated in the anterior part of the petrous bone, its base being directed backwards and inwards, and corresponding with the termination of the cul-de-sac of the meatus auditorius internus. The canal of the cochlea is divided into two equal parts by a thin bony lamina, lamina spiralis, which is wound spirally around the modiolus. The two half canals, thus formed, are called scala tympani and scala vestibuli. At the apex of the cochlea the two scalae communicate and form a dilated cavity, which is termed the cupola (fig. 35. 13.). The Lamina spiralis is not continued entirely across the canal of the cochlea, but is completed by the mucous membrane which lines its interior. Near to the termination of the scala tympani is the opening of a small canal, aqueductus cochlece, which passes backwards to the jugular fossa. It transmits a small vein from the cochlea, which opens into the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The cavity of the cochlea is lined throughout by a thin mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the vestibule, but which closes the fenestra rotunda. It is filled with the aqua labyrinthi. The Openings into the cochlea are, the fenestra rotunda from the tympanum, the opening into the vestibule, the aqueductus cochleae, and the openings for the branches of the auditory nerve. Auditory nerve. — When the auditory nerve reaches the extremity of the meatus auditorius internus, it divides into two branches, 1, Ihe larger or anterior to the cochlea. Antonio Scarpa is celebrated for several beautiful surgical and anatomica monographs; as, for example, his work on “Aneurism,” “ A,u.d,t“.et 01factu>” &c. An account of the aqua labyrinthi will be found in his anatomical observations, “ De Structuru Fenestra; Ro- tunda:, et de iympano Secundario.”306 ORGAN OF TASTE. 2. The smaller or posterior to the vestibule and semicir- cular canals. The Anterior branch divides into a number of minute filaments which pierce the base of the cochlea, and expand in its mucous lining : others enter the modiolus, which is hollowed into canals, to receive them, and pass off through small openings in its circumference to expand in the mucous membrane covering the lamina spiralis. The Posterior or vestibular portion of the nerve divides into three branches, which"are distributed—1. The larger to form the utriculus communis, and the membranous tubes of the perpendicular and horizontal canals. 2. To form the sacculus proprius. 3. The smallest to form the membranous tube of the oblique canal. The Arteries of the labyrinth are derived principally from the auditory branch of the inferior cerebellar artery. Organ of Taste. The Tongue is composed of muscular fibres, which are distributed in layers arranged in various directions : thus some are disposed longitudinally, others transversely, others again obliquely and vertically. Between the muscular fibres is a considerable quantity of adipose substance. The tongue is connected posteriorly with the os hyoides by muscular attachment, and to the epiglottis by mucous membrane, forming the three folds which are called frcena epiglottidis. On either side it is held in connection with the lower jaw by mucous membrane, and in front a fold of that membrane is formed beneath its under surface, which is named frcenum linguce. The surface of the tongue is covered by a dense layer analogous to the corium of the skin, which gives support to the papillae. A rapht marks the middle line of the organ, and divides it into symmetrical halves. The Papillce of the tongue, are the Papillae circumvallatae, conicae, filiformes, fungiformes. The Papillce circumvallatce are of large size, and fromPAPILLA OF THE TONGUE. 307 fifteen to twenty in number. They are situated on the dorsum of the tongue near its root, and form a row upon each side, which meets its fellow at the middle line, like the two branches of the letter A. They resemble cones attached by the apex to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression : hence they are also named papillae calyeiformes. This cup-shaped cavity forms a kind of fossa around the papillae, hence their name circumvallatae. At the meeting of the two rows of these papillae upon the middle of the root of the tongue, is a deep mucous follicle called foramen ccecum. The Papillae conicce and Jiliformes cover the whole surface of the tongue in front of the circumvallatae, but are most abundant upon its tip. They are conical and filiform in shape, and have their points directed back- wards. The Papillae fung iformes are irregularly dispersed over the dorsum of the tongue, and are easily recognised amongst the other papillae by their rounded heads and larger size. Behind the papillae circumvallatae, at the root of the tongue, are a number of mucous glands, which open upon the surface. They have been improperly described as papillae by some authors. The papillae are covered with cuticle, which forms minute sheaths around them. The cuticular sheaths become enormously enlarged and lengthened in some fevers. Ur. Henle*, of Berlin, has recently shown the cuticular covering, or epithelium, to be formed of irre- gularly quadrilateral scales, having a nucleus in the centre of each. Vessels and nerves. — The tongue is abundantly supplied with blood by the lingual arteries. The Nerves are three in number, and of large size — 1. The gustatory branch of the fifth, which is distributed to the papillae, and is the nerve of common sensation. j-i Sy^holaead Anatomiam Villorum Intestinalium, imprimis eorum Epitheln, &c. by Dr. J. Henle, Berlin, 1837. The author had an oppor unity o comparing his own personal observations upon the crease secretion of cuticle around the papillae of the mucous mem- ™ s°me d‘f **es> with those of Dr. Henle, during his late visit with Professor Muller in London.ORGAN OF TOUCH. THE SKIN. 308 2. The glossopharyngeal, which is distributed to the mucous membrane, follicles, and glands of the tongue, and has been shown by the experiments of Panizza to be the true nerve of taste. This nerve also associates the tongue with the pharynx and larynx. 3. The lingual, which is the motor nerve of the tongue, and is distributed to the muscles. The Mucous membrane, which invests the tongue, is continuous with the cutis along the margins of the lips. On either side of the fraenum linguae, it may be traced through the sublingual ducts into the sublingual glands, and along Wharton’s * ducts into the submaxillary glands ; from the sides of the cheeks it passes through the open- ings of Stenon’s f ducts to the parotid gland ; in the fauces, it forms the assemblage of follicles called tonsils, and may be thence traced downwards into the larynx and pharynx, where it is continuous with the general pulmono-digestive mucous membrane. Beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth are a number of small glandular granules, which pour their secretion upon the surface. A considerable number of them are situated within the lips, in the palate, and in the floor of the mouth. They are named from the position which they may chance to occupy, labial, palatine glands, &c. Organ of Touch. The Skin is composed of three layers : viz. the Cutis, Rete-mucosum, t Cuticle. The Cutis (dermis) or true skin covers the entire sur- face of the body, and is continuous with the mucous mem- brane which lines its cavities. It consists of two layers, a deep one called corium, and a superficial or papillary layer. * Thomas Wharton, an English physician, devoted considerable at- tention to the anatomy of the various glands: his work, entitled “ Adenographia,” &c. was published in 1656. •}• Nicholas Stenon, a Danish anatomist: he was made professor in Copenhagen in 1672.309 PAPILLARY LAYER. CORIUM. The Coriurn [fig. 36. l.) is the base of support to the skin, and owes its density of structure to an interlace- ment of fibrous bands which form a firm and elastic web. Fix. 36.* On its under surface it presents a number of areolae, in which are lodged cells of adipose tissue. It is connected by this surface with the general superficial fascia of the body. On the upper surface, the fibres are more closely ag- gregated, and form a smooth plane for the support of the papillary layer. The corium differs very much in thickness in different parts of the body; thus, on the lips, eyelids, and scrotum, it is extremely thin. On the head, back, soles of the feet, and palms of the hands, it is very thick, and on the more exposed parts of the body it is much thicker than on those which are protected. The Papillary layer (fig. 36. 2.) is soft, and formed by minute papillae which cover every part of its surface. On the body generally, the papillae are irregular in their form and distribution : they are best seen in the palm of the hand or sole of the foot, where they are distributed in linear ridges, as is indicated by the linear markings on the cuticle. In these situations each papilla resembles a molar tooth, having four tubercles, one of them being generally longer than the others. Between each of the papillae is the open- ing for the perspiratory duct. The papillae beneath the nail have a peculiar arrange- ment and structure. At the root of the nail the papillae * Fig. 36. A section of the skin. No. 1. the corium. 2. The papillary layer of the cutis. 3. The rete nmicosum modelled upon the papilla;. 4. The cuticle. 5. Spiral sweat ducts, opening at the pores upon the ridges of the cuticle.RETE MUCOSUM. —CUTICLE. 310 are numerous, but small and very vascular; opposite to the part of the nail called lunula, they are scarcely raised above the surface, and less vascular, but beyond this point they form lengthened vascular plicae, which afford a large surface for secretion. These lengthened papillae deposit the horny secretion in longitudinal lamellae, which give to the nail the ribbed appearance it presents on its surface. Vessels and nerves.—The papillae are abundantly sup- plied with vessels and nerves, the former to enable them to perform the office of secretion in the production of the cuticle, the latter to give them the sensibility necessary to an organ of touch. The Rete mucosum (Jig. 36. 3.) is a distinct layer, in- terposed between the cuticle and cutis, and is the seat of the colour in the negro and the darker tribes of mankind. The name rete mucosum given to it by Mal- pighi conveys a very inaccurate notion of its structure, for it is neither a network, nor is it mucous. It is thin upon the general surface of the body, but is thick in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, where it may be easily separated as a distinct layer. Examined beneath the microscope, it is seen to be moulded accurately upon the papillae, being thick in the spaces between these, and thin over their convexities ; hence arises the appearance of a network. In the rete mucosum from the hand, these depressions are seen to be arranged in a linear series, as are the papillae; in other situations they are more irre- gular, but correspond always with the distribution of the papillae. There is no rete mucosum beneath the nails. The colouring particles are situated in the rete mu- cosum, and are most abundant upon the ridges- which cor- respond with the furrows between the papillae. Vessels and nerves. — The rete mucosum has been injected by Mr. Cruikshank, and in a case of small-pox by Sir Astley Cooper. No nerves have been traced into the substance of the rete. The Cuticle (fig. 36. 4.) (epidermis, scarf-skin) is the horny unorganised lamella secreted by the cutis, which covers and protects the entire surface of the more delicate layers of the skin. At the entrance to the cavities it is continuous with the epithelium or cuticular covering of the mucous membrane.NAILS. HAIRS. 311 1 l f In situations exposed to pressure, as the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, it is very thick; on other parts it forms only a thin layer. The cuticle is marked on the surface by a network of lines : these are more numerous and larger near to joints, where they form deep wrinkles on account of the inelastic nature of its structure. Their appearance differs in different regions of the body, but every where depends upon the same cause, the inelasticity of the cuticle. Upon the palms of the hands and soles of the feet the cuticle presents a number of linear elevations which cor- respond with the rows of papillae in those parts. This is particularly evident upon the tips of the fingers where there is a circular arrangement of papillae. Upon the inner surface of the cuticle a number of de- pressions and linear furrows are seen corresponding with the projections of the papillae. A number of conical pro- cesses are also observed on this surface, which correspond with the passage of hairs through the cuticle, and with the openings of the perspiratory ducts. The openings in the cuticle are the pores or openings for the perspiratory ducts, the openings for the passage of the hairs, and those of the sebaceous follicles. The Appendages to the skin are the nails, hairs, se- baceous follicles, and perspiratory ducts. The Nails are parts of the cuticle secreted in the same manner, composed of the same material, but disposed in a peculiar way to serve an especial purpose — the pro- tection of the tactile extremities of the fingers. The white semilunar mark at the base of the nail is called the lunula. The cuticle is closely connected with it all round, and in maceration the nail comes off with that layer. The Hairs have a very different structure and arrange- ment bom that of the nails: they grow by roots which are implanted in the corium, and traverse the papillary layer, the lete mucosum, and the cuticle, to reach the sur- face. As they pass through the rete mucosum and cuti- cle, they receive a reflected covering from each, and the cuticle is closely adherent around the cylinder of the hair before it emerges from the surface. 1 lie hair is homogeneous in structure, having no canalORGAN OF VOICE. THE LARYNX. 312 in its interior : it is supplied with the means of nutrition by the vessels at its root. The Sebaceous follicles are abundant in some parts of the skin, as in the armpits, the nose, &c. They are small perpendicular pouches secreting a peculiar oily matter, and lined by a thin layer of cuticle. The Perspiratory ducts {fig. 36. 5.) are spiral tubes commencing apparently in the corium, and proceeding upwards between the papillae, to terminate by open pores upon the surface of the cuticle. They are easily seen by examining with the microscope a thin section of skin made perpendicularly to the surface. Their origin is not yet clearly made out. Breschet asserts that they proceed from distinct globular glands. Analogy is opposed to his view, but we have not yet succeeded in ascertaining their origin satisfactorily. If a portion of skin be scalded with hot water, and the cuticle raised, the perspiratory ducts may be seen most distinctly extended in straight lines between the separating layers. The Pores are best observed during perspiration, when the fluid is seen oozing through their minute openings. In the hand and sole of the foot they are easily seen by the naked eye without this assistance. They are disposed at regular distances along the ridges of the cuticle, and give rise to the appearance of lines cutting the ridges trans- versely. Although not an organ of sense, the larynx is very im- portant as an organ of relation : we have therefore given it a place in this chapter? ' The Larynx is situated at the forepart of the neck be- tween the trachea and the base of the tongue. It is composed of cartilages, ligaments, muscles, vessels, and nerves, and mucous membrane. Organ of Voice. The Cartilages are, the Thyroid, Cricoid, Two Arytenoid, Epiglottis.313 THYROID AND CRICOID CARTILAGE8. The Thyroid (Ovptof— uZoq, like a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx : it consists of two lateral portions or alee, which meet at an acute angle in front, and form the projection which is known by the name ofpomum Adami. Where the pomum Adami is prominent, a bursa mucosa is often found between it and the skin. Each ala is quadrilateral, and forms a rounded border posteriorly, which terminates above, in the superior cornu, and below, in the inferior cornu. Upon the side of the ala is an oblique line, into which the sterno-thyroid muscle is inserted, and from which the thyro-hyoid takes its origin. Behind this is a vertical line which gives origin to the inferior constrictor muscle. In the receding angle formed by the meeting of the two alae upon the inner side of the cartilage, and near to its lower border, are attached the epiglottis, the chordae vo- cales, fhe fhyro-arytenoid, and thyro-epiglottidean mus- cles. The Cricoid (xpisoi;— like a ring) is a ring of cartilage, narrow in front and broad behind, where it is surmounted by two rounded surfaces, which articulate with die arytenoid cartilages. Upon the middle line, posteriorly, s a vertical ridge which gives attachment to the oesopha- pis. On each side of the ridge are the depressions which odge the crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. On either lide of the ring is a glenoid cavity, which articulates with \ he inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The Arytenoid cartilages (apvrouva* *, a pitcher), two in f) mmber, are triangular in form. They are broad belovrfyj*** vhere they articulate with the upper border of the cricoid! nd give attachment to the crico-arytenoidei postici! rico-arytenoidei laterales, and thyro-arytenoidei muscles! nd chordae vocales; and pointed above, where they arti- jlate with two little curved cartilages, called cornicula vryngis (capitula laryngis). On the posterior surface icy are concave, and lodge the arytenoideus muscle. • This derivation has reference to the appearance of both cartilages <en together and covered by mucous membrane. In animals, which :re Pr;nc,Pa! ™VJ°f dlssec,ion amo”g ‘he ancients, the open! ? of the larynx with the arytenoid cartilages bears a striking re- nblance to the mouth of a pitcher having a large spout.LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 314 The Epiglottis (sTrcyXwTTj?, upon the tongue) is a fibro- cartilage of a yellowish colour, studded with a number of small mucous glands, which are lodged in shallow pits upon its surface. It is shaped like a cordate leaf, and is placed immediately in front of the opening of the larynx, which it closes completely when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue. It is attached by its point to the receding angle, between the two alae of the thyroid cartilage. Two small cartilaginous tubercles (cuneiform) are often found in the folds of the mucous membrane which bound the opening of the larynx laterally. Ligaments. — The ligaments of the larynx are nume- rous, and maybe arranged into four groups: 1. Those which articulate the thyroid with the os hyoides. 2. Those which connect it with the cricoid. 3. Ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages. 4. Ligaments of the epiglottis. 1. The ligaments which connect the thyroid cartilage with the os hyoides are three in number. The two Thyro-hyoidean ligaments pass between the superior cornua of the thyroid and the extremities of the greater cornua of the os hyoides: a sesamoid bone is found in each. The Thyro-hyoidean membrane is a broad membranous layer, occupying the entire space between the thyroid cartilage and os hyoides. It is pierced by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 2. The ligaments connecting the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage are also three in number : — Two Capsular ligaments, with their synovial mem- branes, which form the articulation between the inferior cornua of the thyroid and the sides of the cricoid, and the crico-thyroidean membrane, through which the operation of laryngotomy is performed. The latter is sometimes crossed by a small artery. 3. The ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages are four in number: — Two Capsular ligaments and synovial membranes, which articulate the arytenoid cartilages with the cricoid; and the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or chorda vocales, which pass backwards from the receding angle of the thyroidp 2 s c*~- MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 315 cartilage, near to its lower border, to be inserted into the bases of the arytenoid cartilages. The space between these two ligaments is the glottis, or rima glottidis. 4*. The ligaments of the epiglottis are five in number: — 1. Three folds of mucous membrane, one at the middle, and one at each side, called frcena epiglottidis, which hold the epiglottis back to the tongue. 2. Epiglotlo- hyoidean ligament, which connects the epiglottis to the posterior surface of the os hyoides. 3. The ligament which attaches the epiglottis to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage. The Muscles of the larynx are eight in number : the five larger are the muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glottidis ; the three smaller are muscles of the epi- glottis. The five muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glot- tidis are the Crico-thyroid, Crico-arytenoideus posticus, Crico-arytenoideus. lateralis, Thyro-arytenoideus, Arytenoideus. The Crico-thyroid muscle arises from the anterior sur- face of the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the lower and inner border of the thyroid. The Crico-arytenoideus posticus arises from the de- pression on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the base of the arytenoid. The Crico-arytenoideus lateralis arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid, and is inserted into the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The Thyro-arytenoideus arises from the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, close to the outer side of The chorda vocalis, and passes backwards parallel with the chord, to be inserted into the base of the arytenoid car- tilage. The Arytenoideus muscle occupies the posterior con- cave surface of the arytenoid cartilages, between which it is stretched. . It consists of several planes of transverse and oblique fibres: hence it was formerly considered asMUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 316 several muscles, under the names of transversi and obliqui. The three muscles of the epiglottis are the Thyro-epiglottideus, Aryteno-epiglottideus superior, Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior (Hilton’s muscle). The Thyro-epiglottideus appears to be formed by the upper fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus muscle : they spread out upon the external surface of the sacculus laryngis, on which they are lost; a few of the anterior fibres being continued onwards to the side of the epi- glottis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus superior consists of a few scattered fibres, which pass forwards in the fold of mucous membrane, forming the lateral boundary of the entrance into the larynx, from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage to the side of the epiglottis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior. — This muscle was discovered by Mr. Hilton, and is very important in rela- tion to the sacculus laryngis, with which it is closely connected. It may be found by raising the mucous mem- brane immediately above the ventricle of the larynx. It arises by a narrow and fibrous origin from the arytenoid cartilage, just above the attachment of the chorda vocalis; and passing forwards, and a little upwards, expands over the upper half, or two thirds of the sacculus laryngis, and is inserted by a broad attachment into the side of the epiglottis. Actions. — The crico-thyroid and arytenoid muscles are contractors of the rima glottidis : the crico-aryte- noideus posticus and lateralis, and the thyro-arytenoideus, are dilators. The crico-thyroid muscles elongate, and thereby bring together the chordae vocales, by drawing the thyroid cartilage downwards and forwards; their posterior attach- ment at the arytenoid cartilages being fixed. The ary- tenoid muscle approximates the arytenoid cartilages, and consequently the chordae vocales, directly. The crico-tliyroidei postici being attached to the outer side of the base of the arytenoid cartilages, draw themP 3 V 1*6 Wi u i MUCOUS MEMBRANE. — SACCULUS LARYNGIS. 317 from each other, and stretch the chordae vocales. The crico-arytenoidei laterales draw the arytenoid cartilages from each other, but relax the chordae vocales; and the thyro-arytenoidei increase the width of the glottis, by directly relaxing the chordae vocales. The thyro-epiglottideus acts principally by compressing the glands of the sacculus laryngis and the sac itself: by its attachment to the epiglottis it would act feebly upon that valve. The aryteno-epiglottideus superior serves to keep the mucous membrane of the sides of the opening of the glottis tense, when the larynx is drawn upwards, and the opening closed by the epiglottis. Of the aryteno- epiglottideus, the “ functions appear to be,” writes Mr. Hilton, “ to compress the subjacent glands which open into the pouch ; to diminish the capacity of that cavity, and change its form ; and to approximate the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage.’’ Mucous membrane, — The larynx is lined by the mucous membrane, which is continued from the mouth and pharynx, and prolonged onwards through the trachea and bronchi to the bronchial cells. The chordae vocales form two horizontal projections of the mucous membrane, and constitute the lateral boundaries of the glottis, or rima glottidis. Immediately above the horizontal projection of the chorda vocalis, at each side, is a depressed fossa, the ventricle of the larynx. The superior boundary of the ventricle is an arched border of mucous membrane, which is very incorrectly termed the superior chorda vocalis. If the rounded extremity of a probe be introduced into the ventricle of the larynx, and then directed upwards, it will enter a considerable pouch, which has been recently described by Mr. Hilton with great care, as the sacculus laryngis* From the ventricle of the larynx the sacculus * This sac was discovered and described by Mr. Hilton before lie was aware that it had already been pointed out by the older anato- mists. We ourselves made a dissection, which we still possess, of the same sac in an enlarged state during the month of August 1837, without any knowledge either of Mr. Hilton’s labours, or Morgagni’s account. The sac projected considerably above the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the extremity had been snipped o(F on one side in the removal of the muscles. The larynx was presented to us ,?r', Ge?.ree IVIoore of Camberwell: he had obtained it from a ci w ic died of bronchial disease; and he conceived that this pecu-GLANDS OF THE LARYNX. 318 is continued upwards, nearly as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and sometimes beyond it. When dissected from the interior of the larynx, it is found covered by the aryteno-epiglottideus muscle and a fibrous membrane, which is attached to the superior chorda vocalis below ; to the epiglottis in front; and to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage above. If examined from the exterior of the larynx, it will be seen to be covered by the thyro-epiglottideus muscle. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy small follicular glands, which are situated in the sub- mucous tissue, and give its external surface a rough and ill-dissected appearance. This mucous secretion is in- tended for the lubrication of the chordae vocales, and is directed upon them by two small valvular folds of mucous membrane, which are situated at the entrance of the sacculus. The Entrance of the larynx is formed by two folds of mucous membrane, stretched between the apices of the arytenoid cartilages and the sides of the epiglottis. The arytenoid glands and superior aryteno-epiglottidean mus- cles are situated within these folds. The Glands of the larynx are, 1. The epiglottic—most improperly named — for it consists merely of a mass of fat situated between the convexity of the epiglottis and the thyro-hyoid membrane ; 2. The arytenoid glands, some small granules found in the folds of mucous membrane near the apex of the arytenoid cartilage. Vessels and Nerves. — The arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The nerves liar disposition of the mucous membrane might explain some of the symptoms by which the case was accompanied. Cruveilhier made the same discovery in equal ignorance of Morgagni’s description, for we read in a note at page 677. vol. ii. of his Anatomic Descriptive, — “ J’ai vu pour la premiere fois cette arriere cavitd chez un individu aflfectd de phthisie laryngee, oh elle t?tait tres-developpee. Je fis des recherches sur le larynx d’autres individus, et je trouvai que cette dis- position etait constante. Je ne savais pas alors que Morgagni avait indiqud et fait repr^senter la meme disposition.” Cruveilhier com- pares its form very aptly to a “ Phrygian casqueand Morgagni’s figure, Advers. 1. Epist. Anat. 8. plate 2. fig. 4., has the same ap- pearance. Ilut neither of these anatomists notice the follicular glands described by Mr. Ililton.BRONCHI. 319 TRACHEA. p 4 are the superior laryngeal and recurrent laryngeal; both branches of the pneumogastric. The two nerves com- municate with each other freely ; but the superior laryn- geal is distributed principally to the mucous membrane at the entrance of the larynx; the recurrent, to the mus- cles. In children, and in the female, the larynx is less deve- loped than in the adult male ; the thyroid cartilage forms a more obtuse angle, and is less firm : in the male the angle is acute, and the cartilages often converted into bone. The Trachea extends from opposite the fifth cervical vertebra to opposite the third dorsal, where it divides into the two bronchi. The right bronchus, larger than the left, passes off nearly at right angles, to the upper part of the corresponding lung. The left descends obliquely, and passes beneath the arch of the aorta, to reach the left lung. The Trachea is composed of Fibro-cartilaginous rings, Fibrous membrane. Mucous membrane, Muscular fibres, Glands. The Fibro-cartilaginous rings are from fifteen to twenty- in number, and extend for two-thirds around the cylinder of the trachea. They are deficient at the posterior part, where the tube is completed by fibrous membrane. The last ring has usually a triangular form in front. The rings are connected to each other by a membrane of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, which in the space between the extremities of the cartilages, posteriorly, forms a dis- tinct layer. The Muscular fibres form a thin layer, extending trans- versely between the extremities of the cartilages. On the posterior surface they are covered in by a cellule- s'0118 lamella m which are lodged the tracheal glands. These are small flattened ovoid bodies, situated in great num ti etween the fibrous and muscular layers of the membranous portion of the trachea, and also between the320 THYROID GLAND. two layers of elastic fibrous tissue connecting the rings. They pour their secretion upon the mucous membrane. Thyroid Gland. The Thyroid gland consists of two lobes, which are situated one on each side of the trachea, and are con- nected with each other by means of an isthmus, which crosses its upper rings. There is considerable variety in the situation and breadth of this isthmus; which should be recollected in the performance of operations upon the trachea. The gland is larger in young subjects, and in females, than in the adult and males. It is the seat of an enlargement called bronchocele, goitre, or the Derby- shire neck. A muscle is occasionally found connected with its upper border or with its isthmus, and attached, superiorly, to the body of the os hyoides. It was named by Soemmering the “ Levator glandules thyroidece.” Vessels and Nerves. — It is abundantly supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. Some- times an additional artery is derived from the arteria innominata, and ascends upon the front of the trachea to be distributed to the gland. The wound of this vessel in tracheotomy, might be fatal to the patient. The Nerves are derived from the superior laryngeal and sympathetic.321 p 5 ~ . CHAPTER VIII. ABDOMEN. i>\ a The dissection of the abdomen is to be commenced by making three incisions : — The first, vertical, in the middle line, from over the lower part of the sternum to the pubes ; the second, oblique, from the umbilicus, upwards and outwards, to the outer side of the chest, as high as the fifth or sixth rib ; and the third, oblique, from the um- bilicus, downwards and outwards, to the middle of the crest of the ilium. The three flaps included by these incisions should then be dissected back in the direction of the fibres of the external oblique muscle, beginning at the angle of each. In the two upper flaps, the integu- ment and superficial fascia should be dissected off toge- ther, so as to show the muscle at once. The integument alone should be dissected from the lower flap, leaving the superficial fascia. Between the two layers of the super- ficial fascia, at the lower part of the abdomen, is the superficial epigastric artery and vein ; and, near the crest of the ilium, some branches of the superficial circumflex ilii artery and vein. When these have been examined, the superficial fascia may be removed from the lower part of the aponeurosis of the muscle. In turning back the flaps, several superficial nerves will be cut across ; these are cutaneous branches of the lower intercostal and' lumbar nerves. If the flaps be in the way, they may be removed altogether. One side of the abdomen should be dissected exclusively for the muscles ; the other should be reserved for studying the relations of hernia. The Muscles of the abdomen are the External oblique, descendens, Internal oblique, ascendens, Cremaster, Transversalis, Rectus, Pyramidalis, Quadratus lumborum.322 SURGERY OE THE ABDOMEN. If the external oblique muscle be dissected on both sides, a white tendinous line will be seen along the middle of the abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the pubis: this is the tinea alba. A little external to it, on each side, two curved lines will be observed extend- ing from the sides of the chest to the pubis, and bound- ing the recti muscles : these are the tinece semilunares. Some transverse lines, linece transversce, three or four in number, connect the lineae semilunares with the linea alba. The Linea semilunaris was the situation formerly chosen for the operation of tapping the abdomen in dropsy, para- centesis abdominis. But being merely the outer margin of a muscle, it is liable to alter its position with the ex- pansion to which the whole of the abdominal muscles are subjected in that disease. The rectus may, in this way, be spread over the whole anterior half of the abdomen, and the linea semilunaris become so much displaced as hardly to be discerned by external examination. Again, the sheath of the rectus contains a large artery (epigastric); and with the increased breadth of the muscle, this also changes its course. In a few instances the artery has been wounded in consequence of this change of position, and the operation in the linea semilunaris is, therefore, altogether abandoned. Ventral hernia may occur in the course of this line. The Linea alba is now selected for the operation of paracentesis abdominis. Being in the middle line it can- not change its place by distension, and there is no risk of wounding an artery. The spot selected for the operation is usually midway between the umbilicus and pubis. It is performed by making a small incision with a bistoury through the integument and superficial fascia, and then introducing the trochar. This line is also the seat of operation for puncturing the bladder above the pubis ; which is performed in the same manner as paracentesis abdominis. The High operation for lithotomy, a practice wholly disused in this country, has also its seat in the linea alba. The Ccesarian section for opening the uterus and re- moving the foetus, an "operation which is now becomingMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 3 23 P C frequent, in consequence of success, is also practised in the linea alba. Moreover, a weakening of the linea alba, from over- distension, or congenital deficiency, gives rise to the pro- trusion of intestine at the umbilicus, called umbilical hernia. Deficiencies of development also occur in this line, in which some of the abdominal viscera are exposed; the most frequent instance of this arrest is in the case where the mucous membrane of the bladder is protruded through the integument. The External oblique muscle {obliquus externus abdo- minis descendens) is the external flat muscle of the ab^ domen. Its name is derived from the obliquity of its direction, and the descending course of its fibres. It arises by fleshy digitations from the external surface of the eight inferior ribs. The five upper digitations being received between corresponding processes of the serratus magnus, and the three lower of the latissimus dorsi, it spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for one half its length, the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, spine of the pubis, pectineal line, front of the pubis, and linea alba. The lower border of the aponeurosis, which is stretched between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium {Jig. 2>7.3.) and the spine of the pubis, 4., is folded inwards, forming Poupart's ligament, 2. The insertion into the pectineal line is Gimbernat's ligament. * Just above the crest of the pubis is the External abdo- minal ring {Jig. 37.5.), a triangular opening formed by the separation of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique. It is oblique in its direction, and corre- sponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It is bounded below by the crest of the pubis; on either * Antonio de Gimbernat, was surgeon to the King of Spain ; lie published an excellent essay on femoral hernia in 1793, in which he pointed out the relations of this portion of the tendon of the ex- °hh<jue to the neck of the sac. Ilis work is entitled “ Nuevo Metodo de Operar en la Hernia Crural.”324 EXTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING. side, by the borders of the aponeurosis, which are called pillars; and above, by some curved fibres, which originate from Pou- part’s ligament, and cross the upper angle of the ring, so as to give it strength. The external pillar, 7., which is at the same time inferior, from the obliquity of the opening, is inserted into spine of the pubis; the internal or superior pillar, 6., forms an inter- lacement with its fellow of the opposite side, over the front of the symphisis pubis. The external abdominal ring gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female: they are both invested in their passage through it by a thin fascia derived from the edges of the ring, and called inter-columnar fascia, or fascia spermatica. The pouch of inguinal hernia, in passing through this opening, receives the inter-columnar fascia, as one of its coverings. The posterior border of the external oblique is in close * Fig. 37. The anatomy of inguinal hernia, the right inguinal region. No. 1. The lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. 2. Poupart's ligament, the lower border of the aponeurosis. 3. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. 4. The spine of the pubis. 5. The external abdominal ring. 6. The internal and superior pillar of the ring, passing down over the front of the pubis, and decussating with the same pillar of the opposite side. 7. The external and inferior pillar of the ring attached to the spine of the pubis. 8. The semilunar fibres which curve inwards from Pou- part’s ligament, and strengthen the upper angle of the ring. 9. The iliac portion of the fascia lata. 10. Its pubic portion. 11. The saphenous opening, with the saphenous vein passing through it. 12. The falciform border of the saphenous opening.325 INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. relation with the anterior border of the latissimus dorsi, which sometimes overlaps it. The external oblique is now to be removed by making an incision across the ribs just below its origin to its posterior border, and another along Poupart’s ligament and the crest of the ilium. Poupart’s liga- ment should be left entire, as it gives attachment to the next muscles. The muscles may then be turned forwards towards the linea alba, or removed altogether. The Internal oblique muscle (obliquus internus abdominis ascendens) is the middle flat muscle of the abdomen. It arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the middle of the crest of the ilium for two thirds of its length, and by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Its fibres diverge from their origin, so that those from Poupart’s ligament curve downwards, those from the anterior part of the crest of the ilium pass transversely, and the rest ascend obliquely. The muscle is inserted into the pectineal line, crest of the pubis, linea alba, and lower borders of the five inferior ribs. Along the upper three fourths of the linea semilunaris, the aponeurosis of the internal oblique separates into two lamellae, which pass one in front and the other behind the rectus muscle to the linea alba, where they are inserted ; along the lower fourth, the aponeurosis passes altogether in front of the rectus without separation. The two layers which thus enclose the rectus, form for it a partial sheath. The lowest fibres of the internal oblique are inserted into the pectineal line, in common with those of the trans- versalis muscle. Hence the tendon of this insertion is called the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis (jiff. 38. 6.). This structure corresponds with the external abdominal ring, and forms a protection to what would otherwise be a weak point in the abdomen. Sometimes it is insufficient to resist the pressure from within and becomes forced through the external ring : it then forms the distinctive covering of direct inguinal hernia. * The spermatic cord passes beneath the arched border o the internal oblique muscle, between it and Poupart’s igament. During its passage some fibres are given off326 CREMASTER MUSCLE, from the lower border of the muscle, which ac- company the cord down- wards to the testicle, and form loops around it: this is the cremaster muscle. In the descent of oblique inguinal hernia, which travels the same course with the spermatic cord, the cremaster muscle forms one of its coverings. The Cremaster, consi- dered as a distinct muscle, arises from the middle of Poupart’s ligament, and forms a series of loops upon the spermatic cord. A few of its fibres are inserted into the tunica vaginalis, the rest ascend along the inner side of the cord, to be inserted,, with the conjoined ten- don, into the pectineal line of the pubis. A large nerve is seen piercing the lower fibres of the internal oblique muscle, and passing through the external abdominal ring with the spermatic cord, to which it is distributed ; this is the scrotal branch of the ilio-scrotal nerve (superior musculo-cutaneous). * Fig. 38. The internal oblique and transversalis muscles in the inguinal region, with the boundaries of the inguinal canal. No. 1. The internal oblique muscle. 2. A part of the transver- salis muscle seen by drawing down the internal oblique. 3. The lower arched border of the two muscles, forming the upper boundary of the canal. 4. Poupart’s ligament, forming the lower boundary of the canal. 5. The fascia transversalis. 6. The conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis descending behind Poupart’s liga- ment, to be inserted into the pectineal line. Numbers 5 and 6. form the posterior boundary of the canal, the anterior boundary being formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle which is removed. 7. The internal abdominal ring, an opening in the transversalis fascia, the commencement of the canal. 8. A dark outline marking the situation of the external abdominal ring. The dotted lines between the two rings show the situation and course of the spermatic cord.327 TRANS VERS A LIS MUSCLE. The internal oblique muscle is to be removed, by separating it from its attachment to the ribs above, and to th > crest of the ilium and Poupart’s ligament below. It should be divided behind by a vertical incision extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, as its lumbar attachment cannot at present be examined. The muscle is then to be turned forwards. Some degree of care will be required in performing this dissection from the difficulty of distin- guishing between this muscle and the one beneath. A thin layer of cellular tissue is all that separates them for the greater part of their extent. Near the crest of the ilium the circumflex ilii artery as- cends between the two muscles, and forms a valuable guide to their separation. Near to Poupart’s ligament they are so closely con- nected that it is impossible to divide them. The Transversalis is the internal flat muscle of the abdomen; it is transverse in the direction of its fibres, as is implied in its name. It arises from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, from the internal lip of the crest of the ilium, its anterior two-thirds ; from the lumbar vertebrae, and from the inner surfaces of the six inferior ribs, indigitating with the diaphragm. Its lower fibres curve downwards, to be inserted, with the lower fibres of the internal oblique, into the pectineal line, and form the conjoined tendon. Throughout the rest of its extent it is inserted into the crest of the pubis and linea alba. The lower fourth of its aponeurosis passes in front of the rectus to the linea alba ; the upper three-fourths, with the posterior lamella of the internal oblique, behind it. The Posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis divides into three lamellae : — 1. Anterior, which is attached to the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. 2. Middle, to the apices of the transverse processes. 3. Posterior, to the apices of the spinous processes. The anterior and middle lamellae enclose the quadratus lumborum mus- cle ; and the middle and posterior, the erector spinae. The union of the posterior lamella of the transversalis with the posterior aponeurosis of the internal oblique, serratus posticus inferior, and latissimus dorsi, constitutes the lumbar fascia. I lie spermatic cord and oblique inguinal hernia pass beneath the lower border of the transversalis muscle, but have no direct relation with it. Direct inguinal hernia forces the conjoined tendon before it, which forms one of its coverings.SHEATH OF THE RECTUS. 328 The muscular branch of the circumflex ilii artery will be seen near to the crest of the ilium, ramifying upon the transversalis. Some muscular and cutaneous branches of the lumbar nerves will also be seen perforating its fibres. To dissect the rectus muscle, the sheath should be opened by a ver- tical incision extending from over the cartilages of the lower ribs to the front of the pubis. The sheath may then be dissected off and turned to either side: this is easily done excepting at the lines trans- versae, where a close adhesion subsists between the muscle and the external boundary of the sheath. The sheath contains the rectus and pyramidalis muscles. The Rectus muscle arises by a flattened tendon from the crest of the pubis, and is inserted into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. It is traversed by several tendinous ziz-zag lines, called lineas transversae. One of these is situated at the umbilicus, two above that point, and one below. They are vestiges of the abdo- minal ribs of reptiles, and very rarely extend completely through the muscle. The Pyramidalis muscle arises from the crest of the pubis in front of the tendon of the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba at about midway between the um- bilicus and the pubis. The rectus may now be divided across the middle, and the two ends drawn aside for the purpose ot examining the mode of formation of its sheath. The Sheath of the rectus is formed in front for the upper three fourths of its extent, by the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the anterior lamella of the in- ternal oblique, and behind by the posterior lamella of the internal oblique and the aponeurosis of the transversalis. At the commencement of the lower fourth, the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin, the aponeuroses of the three muscles passing altogether in front of the rectus. The quadratus lumborum must be left until the viscera of the abdomen have been examined. Actions. — The external oblique muscle, acting singly, would draw the thorax towards the pelvis, and twist the body to the opposite side. Both muscles, act- ing together, would flex the thorax directly on the pelvis.329 ANATOMY OF HERNIA. The internal oblique of one side draws the chest down- wards and outwards : both together bend it directly for- wards. Either transversalis muscle, acting singly, will diminish the size of the abdomen on its own side, and both together will constrict the entire cylinder of the cavity. The recti muscles, assisted by the pyramidales, flex the thorax upon the chest. The abdominal muscles are the chief agents of expul- sion ; by their action the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the urine from the bladder, the faeces from the rectum, the bile from the gall-bladder, and the ingesta from the stomach and bowels in vomiting. To produce these efforts they all act together. Their violent and continued action produces hernia; and, acting spasmo- dically, they may occasion rupture of the viscera. Anatomy of Hernia. The herniae occurring in the parietes of the abdomen have been divided by Sir Astley Cooper into four spe- cies ; namely, umbilical, ventral, inguinal, and femoral: to which may be added, as occasionally occurring, phrenic, obturator, ischiatic, gluteal, perineal, and, in the female, vaginal. Umbilical hernia occurs at the umbilicus from weaken- ing of the linea alba, either by over-distension, as in utero-gestation, or from congenital deficiency. Its cover- ings are, the Integument, Superficial fascia, Distended aponeurosis, Peritoneum. Ventral hernia occurs chiefly in the linea semilunaris, and from the same causes: its coverings are the same; but it has usually three layers of aponeurosis. Inguinal hernia is of two kinds, oblique and direct: the former takes the course of the spermatic canal, descend- inS by the s,de of the spermatic cord. The latter (direct) pushes directly through the external abdominal ring, carrying before it the conjoined tendon of t ie internal oblique and transversalis muscles.330 SPERMATIC CANAL. Dissection.—One side of the abdomen having been reserved for the study of hernia, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle should now be carefully dissected and turned down. The abdominal pa- rietes, in the inguinal region, should in the next place be cut through, and the flap drawn forwards, so that the internal surface of the region may be examined. When the peritoneum is removed from this suf- face, it will be found adherent at a part corresponding with the en- trance of the spermatic cord into the spermatic canal. The vessels composing the cord will be seen converging to this point, the spermatic artery from over the psoas muscle, and the vas deferens from the side of the bladder. The epigastric artery will also be seen ascending obliquely to the sheath of the rectus. Beneath the peritoneum, and immediately investing the transversalis muscle, is the transversalis fascia (Jiff. 39. 2.), a dense layer of cellular fibrous membrane, continuous with Poupart’s ligament, 1., below, and on the inner side with the edge of the sheath of the rectus : above and upon the outer side it is gradually lost in the subserous cellular tissue. In this fascia, which is an important defence to the occurrence of hernia in the inguinal region, is situated the opening for the transmission of the spermatic cord, the internal abdominal ring, 3. The Internal abdominal ring (tfig. 39. 3.) is an ob- lique opening in the fascia transversalis, situated mid- way between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine of the pubis, and about half an inch above Poupart’s liga- ment. The border of the ring invests the spermatic cord with an infundibiliform sheath in its passage through it, and the hernial protru- sion taking the same course obtains necessarily the same sheath or covering. The Spermatic canal is the oblique space in the ab- * Fig. 39. The transversalis fascia, the abdominal muscles being removed.OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 331 ♦ Idominal parietes, near to Poupart’s ligament, which trans- mits the spermatic cord. It is about an inch and a half in length, is terminated at one extremity by the internal ring, and at the other by the external ring. It is bounded in front by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and behind by the fascia transversalis {fig- 38.5.) and conjoined tendon, 6.; above by the lower margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and below by the folded edges of Poupart’s ligament. It is along this oblique canal that the hernial protrusion travels in its passage from the abdomen : hence it is named Oblique inguinal hernia. The intestine, pushing before it a sac of peritoneum, enters the internal ring, and receives from it the infundibilform process of the trans- versalis fascia, which, in the absence of hernia, invests the spermatic cord alone. It then passes beneath the lower border of the transversalis muscle, but without any immediate relation. It next passes beneath the lower border of the internal oblique, and receives the cremaster muscle as a covering. Lastly, emerging from the external abdominal ring, it obtains the inter-columnar fascia, and becomes placed beneath the superficial fascia and inte- gument. The different layers which it thus obtains in its progress, and which the surgeon must cut through, were he called to operate on a strangulated hernia of this kind, the coverings of the hernia,, as they are technically called, are, the Integument, Superficial fascia, Inter-columnar fascia, Cremaster, Fascia transversalis, Peritoneal sac. If the hernia be small and become strangulated while situated within the spermatic canal, the external wall of No. 1. Poupart’s ligament. 2. The transversalis fascia. 3. The internal abdominal ring, an opening in the transversalis fascia. 4. The situation of the external abdominal ring. 5. A dotted line marking the course of the epigastric artery between the two rings.332 DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. that canal must be laid open. The layers to be divided would then be, the Integument, Superficial fascia, Aponeurosis of the external oblique, Cremaster, Fascia transversalis, Peritoneal sac. Oblique inguinal hernia in its course through the spermatic canal lies above the spermatic cord. In rare cases the hernial protrusion may separate the components of the cord, so that some of them may lie in front of the tumour. Hence one of many reasons for extreme care and caution in operating for strangulated hernia. Turning again to the inner wall of the abdomen, and observing the position of the internal ring, the epigastric artery will be seen ascending to its inner side. And on the inner side of the artery is a smooth and rather depressed triangular surface, which is the seat of the protrusion of intestine in direct inguinal hernia. Direct inguinal hernia is named from passing directly through the external abdominal ring. It pushes before it a sac of peritoneum, the transversalis fascia, the conjoined tendon, and as it escapes at the external ring receives an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. Its coverings are therefore, the Integument, Superficial fascia, Inter-columnar fascia, Conjoined tendon, Transversalis fascia, Peritoneal sac. In escaping at the external ring it often carries the spermatic cord before it, so that the vessels of which it is composed become spread over the front of the hernial sac, or slip to one side. The Seat of stricture in all the varieties of inguinal hernia is always the neck of the sac. In recent oblique hernia the neck of the sac is formed by the internal ring. In old and large hernia, the internal ring is dragged down so as to333 CONGENITAL HERNIA. become placed exactly opposite the external, and the two together form its neck. In direct hernia, the fascia transversalis with the border of the conjoined tendon are the structures forming the neck of the sac. If oblique and direct hernia existed together, it is obvious from the position of the epigastric artery {Jig- 39. 5.), that that vessel would be placed between the necks of both ; and if either existed separately, the artery would be situated to the inner side of oblique, and to the outer side of direct hernia. In the division of the stricture, therefore the surgeon would make his incision upwards and outwards in oblique and upwards and inwards in direct hernia, to avoid wounding this artery. But as the diagnosis of the exact nature of the hernia is always uncertain, and as the division of the epigastric artery would possibly be fatal, and as moreover obliquity in the direction of the incision is quite unnecessary for the safety of the operation, ex- perience has established the rule, that the incision should he made directly upwards in every case of inguinal hernia ; and if the history of femoral hernia be referred to, it will be seen that a general principle may be established, that in all cases of abdominal hernia, inguinal, femoral, umbilical, or ventral, the incision is invariably to be made directly upivards. There are two varieties of oblique inguinal hernia occa- sionally met with ; these are congenital and encysted. Both result from protrusions, which take the course of the spermatic canal, and they differ from common oblique inguinal, and from each other, only in relation to the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. In the descent of the testicle from the abdomen into the scrotum in the foetus, a sac of peritoneum is carried with it. The form of this sac may be familiarly illus- trated by the simile of a Florence flask. The neck of the pouch from the internal ring to near the testicle, becomes gradually closed and obliterated, and that portion of it which remains and encloses the testicle is the tunica vaginalis. Common oblique hernia (fig. 40.), occurring in this con- dition of the tunica vaginalis, is placed altogether above it, and in a distinct sac or pouch of peritoneum. Congenital hernia (fig. 41.) results from the nonclosureENCYSTED HERNIA. 334 of the sac of the tunica vaginalis ; the intestine, in its descent, passes along the open canal left by the transit of the testicle, and enters the tunica vaginalis, being in actual contact with the testicle. The sac of congenital hernia is, therefore, the tunica vaginalis itself. In other respects it exactly resembles com- mon oblique hernia. In Encysted hernia f (fig- 4-2.) (hernia infantilis of Hey) the neck of the pouch of the tunica vaginalis is closed only at the upper part, and the hernia carrying with it a peritoneal sac descends behind the tunica vaginalis, so that, in operat- ing, the surgeon opens first the tunica vaginalis, and, finding no hernia, cuts through its other side until he reaches the hernial sac. He thus divides three layers of serous membrane, before arriving at the intestine. In other respects the hernia resembles common ob- lique inguinal. The Arteries of the abdominal parietes are the superficial and deep epigastric, superficial and deep circumflex ilii, internal mam- mary, inferior intercostal, and lum- bar. The Lymphatics accompany the veins, those from the lower part of the abdomen passing into the in- * Fig. 40. Common oblique inguinal hernia. The intestine in a distinct sac of peritoneum, and separated from the testicle by the tunica vaginalis. Nos. 1. 1. The sac of the hernia. 2. The tunica vaginalis en- closing the testicle, 3. 4. The spermatic cord. -f- A case of this kind occurred to Mr. Liston in 1835. The stu- dent will find a full account of it in a Clinical Lecture in the 1st volume of the Lancet for 1834-5, page 883. | Fig• 41. Congenital hernia, the intestine being in contact with335 REGIONS OF THE ABDOMEN. guinal glands, and those from the upper ascending to the mediastinal glands. The Nerves are the inferior in- tercostal and musculo-cutaneous branches of the lumbar plexus. The student should now lay open the abdomen by means of a crucial incision, and study its division into regions, the position of the viscera, and the perito- neum. The Cavity of the abdomen is bounded in front and at the sides by the lower ribs and abdominal mus- cles ; behind, by the vertebral co- lumn and abdominal muscles; above by the diaphragm ; and, below, by the pelvis. Regions. — If two transverse lines be carried around the body, the one parallel with the convexities of the ribs, the other with the highest points of the crests of the ilia, the abdomen will be divided into three zones. Again, if a perpendicular line be drawn at each side from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the middle of Poupart’s ligament, the three primary zones will each be subdivided into three compartments or regions, a middle and two lateral. The middle region of the upper zone being immediately over the small end of the stomach, is called Epigastric (£7r<—yaar-rif, over the stomach). The two lateral regions being under the cartilages of the ribs, are called Hypo- the testicle; the tunica vaginalis of the testicle forming the sac of the hernia. Nos. 1. 1. The tunica vaginalis testis, continuous superiorly with the peritoneum, of which it is a part. 2. The testicle. 3. The sper- matic cord. * Fig. 42. Encysted hernia; the hernial sac containing the in- testine being behind the tunica vaginalis. Nos. 1. 1. The hernial sac. 2. The cavity of the tunica va- ginalis. 3. The testicle. 4. I he spermatic cord. The arrow shows that three layers of serous membrane must be divided before the intestine can be reached.PERITONEUM. 336 chondriac (two — xovbpoi, under the cartilages). The mid- dle region of the middle zone is the Umbilical; the two lateral, the Lumbar. The middle region of the inferior zone is the Hypogastric (viro— yaa-T-qp, below the stomach) ; and the two lateral, the Iliac. In addition to these divisions, we constantly use the term Inguinal region, meaning thereby the vicinity of Poupart’s ligament. Position of the viscera. — In the upper zone will be seen the liver extending across from the right to the left side; the stomach and spleen on the left, and the pancreas and duodenum behind. In the middle zone is the transverse portion of the colon, with the upper part of the ascending and descending colon, omentum, small intestine-, mesentery; and, behind, the kidneys and their capsules. In the in- ferior zone is the lower part of the omentum and small intestines, the ccecum, ascending and descending colon, with the sigmoid flexure and ureters. The smooth and polished surface, which the viscera and parietes of the abdomen present, is due to the peri- toneum which may now be studied. Peritoneum. The Peritoneum is a serous membrane, and, therefore, a shut sac : a single exception alone exists in the human subject to this character, viz. in the female, where the peritoneum is perforated by the open extremities of the Fallopian tubes. The simplest idea that can be given of a serous mem- brane, which applies equally to all, is, that it invests the viscus or viscera, and is then reflected upon the parietes of the containing cavity. If the cavity contain only a single viscus, the consideration of the serous membrane is extremely simple. But in the abdomen, where there are a number of viscera, the serous membrane passes from one to the other until it has invested the whole before it is reflected on the parietes. Hence its reflections are a little more confused. In tracing the reflections of the peritoneum in the middle line, we commence with the diaphragm, which is lined by two layers, one from the parietes in front, anterior,337 PERITONEUM. REFLECTIONS. and one from the parietes behind, posterior. These two layers of the same membrane meet at about the middle of the diaphragm, and descend to the upper surface of the liver, forming the lateral ligaments of the liver. They then surround the liver, and, meeting at its under surface, pass to the stomach, forming the lesser omentum. They then surround the stomach, and meeting at its lower border, descend for some distance in front of the intestines, and return to the transverse colon, forming the great omentum ; they then surround the transverse colon, and pass directly backwards to the vertebral column, forming the transverse meso-colon. Here the two layers separate; the posterior ascends in front of the pancreas and aorta, and returns to the posterior part of the diaphragm, where it forms the posterior layer with which we commenced. The anterior descends, invests all the small intestines, and returning to the vertebral column, forms the mesentery. It then de- scends into the pelvis in front of the rectum, which it holds in its place by means of a fold called meso-rectum, forms a pouch between it and the bladder, ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder, forming its false ligaments, and returns upon the anterior parietes of the abdomen to the diaphragm, whence we first traced it. In the female, after descending into the pelvis in front of the rectum, it is reflected upon the posterior surface of the vagina and uterus. It then descends on the anterior surface of the uterus, and forms at either side the broad ligaments. From the uterus it ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder and anterior parietes of the abdo- men, and is continued as in the male to the diaphragm. In this way the continuity of the peritoneum, as a whole, is distinctly shown, and it matters not where the examination commence, or where it terminate, still the same continuity of surface will be discernible throughout, j; If we trace it from side to side of the abdomen, we may commence at the umbilicus; we then follow it outwards lining the inner side of the parietes to the ascending colon; it surrounds that intestine; it then surrounds the small intestine, and returning on itself forms the me- sentery. It then invests the descending colon, and reaches .lie parietes on the opposite side of the abdomen, whence Q338 PERITONEUM. DUPL1CATURES. it may be traced to the exact point from which we started. The viscera, which are thus shown to be invested by the peritoneum in its course from above downwards, are the Liver, Stomach, Transverse colon, Small intestines, Pelvic viscera. The folds, formed between these and between the diaphragm and the liver, are Diaphragm. Transverse and broad ligaments. (Liver.) Lesser omentum. (Stomach.) Greater omentum. (Transverse colon.) Transverse meso-colon, Mesentery, Meso-rectum, False ligaments of the bladder. And in the female, the Broad ligaments of the uterus. The ligaments of the liver will be examined with that organ. The Lesser omentum is the duplicature passing between the liver and the upper border of the stomach: it is ex- tremely thin, excepting at its right border, where it is free, and contains between its layers, the Hepatic artery, Ductus communis choledochus, Portal vein, Hepatic plexus of nerves, Lymphatics. These structures are enclosed in a loose cellular tissue,FORAMEN OF WINSLOW. 339 Q 2 called Glissons capsule. * The relative position of the three vessels is, — the artery to the left, the duct to the right, and the vein between and behind. If the finger be introduced behind this right border of the lesser omentum, it will be situated in an opening- called the foramen of Winslow. + In front of the finger will lie the right border of the lesser omentum ; behind it the diaphragm covered by the ascending or posterior layer of the peritoneum ; below, the hepatic artery, curving forwards from the coeliac axis; and, above, the lobulus Spigelii. These, therefore, are the boundaries of the foramen of Winslow, which is nothing more than a con- striction of the general cavity of the peritoneum at this point, arising out of the necessity for the hepatic and gastric arteries passing forwards from the cceliac axis to reach their respective viscera. If air be blown through the foramen of Winslow, it will descend behind the lesser omentum and stomach to the space between the descending and ascending pair of layers, forming the great omentum. This is sometimes called the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, and that ex- ternal to the foramen the greater cavity; in which case the foramen is considered as the means of communication between the two. There is a great objection to this division, as it might lead the inexperienced to believe that there were really two cavities. There is but one only, the foramen of Winslow being merely a constriction of that one, to facilitate the communication between the nutrient arteries and the viscera of the upper part of the abdomen. The Great omentum consists of four layers of perito- neum, the two which descend from the stomach, and the same two,returningupon themselves to the transverse colon. A quantity of adipose substance is deposited in its struc- ture. It would appear to perform a double function in i the economy — 1st, protecting the intestines from cold; * Francis Glisson, Professor of Medicine in the University of Cambridge. His work, “ De Anatomia Hepatis,” was published in 1654. f Jacob Benignus Winslow: his “ Exposition Anatomique de la Structure du Corps Humain,” was published in Paris in 1732.VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. 340 and, secondly, facilitating the movements of the intestines upon each other during their distension. The Transverse meso-colon (/ae<to<;, middle), being at- tached to the middle of the cylinder of the intestine, is the medium of connection between the transverse colon and the posterior wall of the abdomen: it also affords to the nutrient arteries a passage to reach the intestine. It encloses between its layers, at the posterior part, the transverse portion of the duodenum. The Mesentery (gso-ov evtepov, being attached to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine) is the medium of connection between the small intestines and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is oblique in its direction, being attached to the posterior wall, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. It retains the small intestines in their places, and gives passage to the mesenteric arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics. The Meso-rectum, in like manner, retains the rectum in connection with the front of the sacrum. Besides this, there are some minor folds in the pelvis, as the false ligaments of the bladder and broad ligaments of the uterus. The Appendices epiploicce are small irregular pouches of peritoneum, filled with fat, and situated like fringes upon the large intestine. Three other duplicatures of peritoneum are situated in the sides of the abdomen : they are the gastro-splenic omentum, the ascending and descending meso-colon. The Gastro-splenic omentum is the duplicature which connects the spleen to the stomach ; and the ascending and descending meso-cola are the folds which retain the corresponding portions of the colon in their situations, Viscera of the Abdomen. The Viscera of the abdomen are the alimentary canal, the organs subservient to digestion, viz. the liver, pan- creas, and spleen, and the organs of excretion, the kidneys, and their capsules. The Alimentary canal is a musculo-membranous tube, extending from the mouth to the anus. It is variously341 STOMACH. DUODENUM. named in the different parts of its course: hence it is divided into the Pharynx, (Esophagus, Stomach, {Duodenum, Jejunum, Ileum, f Ccecum, Large intestine-! Colon, (_ Rectum. The Pliaiynx is situated behind the mouth, and ex- tends from the base of the skull to the fifth cervical vertebra. The (Esophagus commences opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and descends the neck, behind and rather to the left of the trachea. It then passes beneath the arch of the aorta, and along the posterior mediastinum in front of the thoracic aorta to the cesophagal opening in the diaphragm, where it enters the abdomen, and terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The Stomach is an expansion of the alimentary canal, situated in the left hypochondriac region, and extending into the epigastric. On account of the peculiarity of its form, it is divided into a greater, or splenic, and a lesser, or pyloric end, a lesser curvature above, and a greater curvature below, a cardiac orifice and a pyloric orifice. The Great end is not only of large size, but expands beyond the point of entrance of the oesophagus. The pylorus is the small and contracted extremity of the organ. The two Curvatures give attachment to the perito- neum ; the upper curve to the lesser omentum, and the lower to the greater omentum. I he Small intestines are divided into three portions, duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The JJuodenum (called SdySc/faSa/cTvXov by Herophilus) is named from being equal in length to the breadth of twelve fingers. Commencing at the pylorus it ascends obliquely to the under surface of the liver : it next de- scends perpendicidarly in front of the right kidney, and Q 3342 JEJUNUM. ILEUM. — CCECUM. — COLON. then passes nearly transversely across the vena cava and aorta, opposite the third lumbar vertebra. It terminates in the jejunum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. The first part of its course is completely enclosed by the peritoneum: the second is in apposition with the peritoneum only in front, and the third lies between the diverging layers of the transverse meso-colon. The transverse portion of the duodenum is crossed by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. The perpendicular portion receives the ductus communis choledochus, and pancreatic ducts, near to its lower angle. The Jejunum (jejunus, empty) is named from being found generally empty. It forms the upper two-fifths of the small intestine, commencing at the duodenum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and terminating in the ileum. It is thicker to the touch than the rest of the intestine, and has a pinkish tinge from being more vascular. The Ileum (fikav, to twist, to convolute) includes the remaining three-fifths of the small intestine. It is thinner in texture, and paler than the jejunum ; but there is no mark by which to distinguish the termination of the one or the commencement of the other. It terminates in the right iliac fossa, by opening into the colon. The Large intestine is divided into the ccecum, colon, and rectum. The Ccecum (coecus, blind) is the blind pouch or cul- de-sac at the commencement of the large intestine. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, and is retained in its place by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface ; its posterior surface is connected by loose cellu- lar tissue with the iliac fascia. Attached to its extremity is the appendix vermiformis, a long worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened coecum, found in all mammiferous animals but man and the higher quadru- mana. The Colon is divided into ascending, transverse, and descending. The Ascending colon passes upwards from the right iliac fossa, through the right lumbar region, to the under surface of the liver. It then bends inwards, and crossesMUCOUS COAT.— ARRANGEMENT. 343 the upper part of the umbilical region under the name of transverse colon, and on the left side descends (descending coloix) through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it makes a remarkable curve upon itself, which is called sigmoid flexure. Rectum. — The large intestine then enters the pelvis, and descends in front of the sacrum, lying rather to its left side. At the lower part of the pelvis it becomes considerably dilated, and makes a sudden bend back- wards to terminate at the constricted opening of the anus. Structure of the Intestinal Canal. The pharynx and oesophagus have but two coats, the mucous and muscular ; the stomach and intestines have three mucous and muscular, and an external serous invest- ment derived from the peritoneum. Mucous coat—The mucous membrane of the pharynx is smooth, and is continuous with the mucous lining of the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. In the oesophagus it is disposed in longitudinalplicce. In the stomach it is arranged in rugce (wrinkles), and at the pylorus forms a spiral fold, called the pyloric valve. In the lower half of the duodenum, the whole length of the jejunum, and upper part of the ileum, it forms valvular folds called valvulce conniventes. These folds do not entirely surround the cylinder of the intestine, but extend for about three-fourths of its circumference. In the lower part of the ileum the mucous lining is without folds; hence the thinness of the coats of this intestine as com- pared with the jejunum and duodenum. At the termina- tion of the ileum in the caecum, the mucous membrane forms two folds, which are strengthened by the muscular coat, and project into the ccecum. These are the ilio- ccecal valve. In the ccecum and colon, the mucous mem- brane is smooth; but, in the rectum, it forms three val- vular folds, one of which is situated near the commence- ment of the intestine ; the second, extending from the side of the tube, is placed opposite the middle of the sacrum ; and the third, proceeding from the front of the cylinder, is situated opposite the prostate gland. Structure of mucous membrane.—This membrane is tt 4MUCOUS COAT. STRUCTURE. 344 not simple, like the serous coat, but is composed of three layers like the skin, which it very closely resembles. These are the epithelium, the proper mucous, and the fibrous layer. The Epithelium is the cuticle of the mucous membrane. Throughout the pharynx and oesophagus it resembles the cuticle, both in appearance and character. It is con- tinuous with the cuticle of the skin at the margin of the lips, and terminates by an irregular border at the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The rest of the mucous membrane has been recently shown by Dr. Henle * to be equally provided with an epithelium, composed of minute pyriform bodies placed perpendicularly to the surface. These bodies have a central nucleus, and are secreted by the mucous layer; they are delineated and described in Dr. Baly’s able translation of Muller’s Physiology. The Proper mucous or papillary layer, is analogous to the papillary layer of the skin, and, like it, is the secreting structure by which the epithelium is produced. Its surface is covered with minute papillae (villi'), which are so numerous in the small intestine, as to present the ap- pearance of the pile of velvet; hence the mucous surface has been named “ villous The Villi are largest and most numerous in the stomach and duodenum, covering every part of the surface of the rugae and valvulae conniventes. They are not so abundant in the jejunum, but are still in sufficient number to give to that intestine its characteristic thickness and vascu- larity. In the ileum they are fewer and less developed, and in the large intestine have a particular arrangement. The mucous layer is very loosely connected with the fibrous. It is continuous at the lips and at the anus with the papillary layer of the cutis. The Fibrous layer (submucous, nervous) is the mem- brane of support to the mucous membrane, as is the corium to the papillary layer of the skin. It gives to the mucous membrane its strength and resistance. It is but loosely connected with the mucous layer, but is firmly adherent to the muscular coat. It is called, in the older works on anatomy, the “ nervous coat." * Opus citatum.345 FOLLICLES. — GLANDS. In the loose cellular tissue connecting the mucous with the fibrous layer, are situated the four kinds of mucous glands belonging to the mucous membrane: these are Simple follicles (Lieberkuhn’s), Glandulas solitariae, Glandulae aggregate (Peyer’s), Duodenal glands (Brunner’s). The Simple follicles, or follicles of Lieberkuhn, are small pouches of the mucous layer, situated in immense numbers in every part of the membrane. The Solitary glands are very generally called Brun- ner’s, but erroneously ; for that anatomist confined his description to those situated in the duodenum: we have, therefore, attached his name only to the latter. The solitary glands are found in the stomach, small intestine, and large intestine ; but are most numerous in the ccecum. They are small flattened granular bodies, without any apparent opening upon the surface of the membrane. The Aggregate, or Peyer’s# glands, are principally situated near to the lower end of the ileum, and occupy that portion of the intestine which is opposite the attach- ment of the mesentery. They present the appearance of oval patches, covered with small irregular fissures, which separate the secreting lobules. The Duodenal, or Brunner s\ glands, are small flat- tened granular bodies, compared collectively by Von Brunn to a second pancreas. They resemble in structure the small salivary glands so abundant beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth and lips; and, like them, they open upon the surface by minute secretory ducts. Besides the mucous follicles and glands, there are a considerable number of small lengthened follicles em- bedded in the mucous membrane of the stomach, which secrete the gastric juice — the gastric follicles. * John Conrad Peyer, an anatomist of Schaffhausen, in Switzer- land. Ilis essay, “ De Glandulis Intestinorum,” was published in 1677. 1' John Conrad von Brunn: “ Glandulaj Duodeni seu Pancreas Secundarium,” 1715.34-6 MUSCULAR COAT. — SEROUS COAT. Muscular coat.—The muscular coat of the pharynx consists of five pairs of muscles, which are described at page 224. The muscular coat of the rest of the alimentary canal is composed of two planes of fibres, an external, longitu- dinal and an internal, circular. The (Esophagus is very muscular; its longitudinal fibres are continuous above with the pharynx, and are attached in front to the ridge on the cricoid cartilage. Below, both sets of fibres are continued upon the stomach. On the Stomach there is a distortion of the longitudinal fibres in consequence of the expansion of its great end, which gives rise to a new order of muscular fibres, the oblique. The longitudinal are most apparent along the lesser curve, the oblique at the great end of the stomach, and the circular at the lesser end. At the pylorus the circular fibres produce a constriction, which, with a spiral fold of mucous membrane, forms the pgloric valve. The Small intestine is provided with both layers, equally distributed over the whole surface. At the ter- mination of the ileum the circular fibres are continued into the two folds of the ilio-ccecal valve, while the lon- gitudinal fibres pass onwards to the large intestine. In the Ccecum and colon these longitudinal fibres are collected into three bands, which, being shorter than the intestine, give it the puckered and sacculated appearance which is characteristic of the large intestine. The cir- cular fibres are very thin. In the Rectum the three longitudinal bands spread out and form a thick and very muscular, longitudinal layer. There are no circular fibres : they appear to have slipped downwards to the lower end of the intestine, and to have formed there a thick muscular ring, the internal sphincter ani. Serous coat—The pharynx and oesophagus have no other external covering than a layer of condensed cellular tissue. The alimentary canal within the abdomen has a serous layer, derived from the peritoneum. The Stomach is completely surrounded by the perito-ALIMENTARY CANAL. — VESSELS. NERVES. 347 neum. The first or oblique portion of the duodenum is also completely included by the serous membrane. The de- scending portion has merely a partial covering on its ante- rior surface. The transverse portion is also behind the peritoneum, being situated between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, and has but a partial covering. The rest of the small intestines are completely invested by it. The ccecum and commencement of the colon have the serous membrane only on their anterior surface: to the rest of the colon it forms a complete covering. The upper third of the rectum is completely enclosed by the peritoneum ; the middle third has only an anterior covering, and the inferior third none whatsoever. The expression complete covering, in the above descrip- tion, must be received with limitation. No peritoneal investment can be perfectly complete, as a certain space must necessarily be left uncovered in every viscus for the entrance and exit of vessels. This spot corresponds with the point of reflection of the serous membrane. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the alimentary canal, as they supply the tube from above downwards, are the ascending pharyngeal, superior thyroid, and inferior thyroid in the neck; oesophageal in the thorax ; gastric, hepatic, splenic, superior and inferior mesenteric in the abdomen ; and inferior mesenteric, iliac, and internal pudic in the pelvis. The Veins from the abdominal alimentary canal unite to form the vena portae. The Lymphatics open into the receptaculum chyli. The Nerves of the pharynx and oesophagus are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and sym- pathetic. The nerves of the stomach are the pneumogastric and sympathetic branches from the solar plexus ; and those of the intestinal canal are the superior and inferior mesenteric and hypo-gastric plexuses. The extremity of the rectum is supplied by the coccygeal nerves from the spinal cord. Dissection. — I he student should now raise the transverse colon, and pin it upwards upon the chest. He should then draw the whole of the small intestines over to the left side. Then let him dissect the « 6SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 348 peritoneal layer from the middle line, opposite the third lumbar ver- tebra, and he will expose the superior mesenteric artery, and by its side the superior mesenteric vein. The branches of the artery should be carefully cleared of fat and cellular tissue. In the progress of the dissection the nervous filaments, lacteals, and lymphatic glands will be exposed. The Superior mesenteric artery is the second single vessel given off by the abdominal aorta : it arises from that trunk behind the pancreas, passes forwards between it and the transverse duodenum, and descends within the layers of the mesentery to the right iliac fossa. It forms a slight curve in its course, the convexity being directed to the left, and the concavity to the right. Branches From the convexity are given off from fifteen to twenty branches to the small intestine, which supply the canal, from the commencement of the jejunum to the termination of the ileum; and from the concavity are derived the ilio-colica, colica dextra, and colica media. They may be better studied in a tabular form :— thus, Vasa intestini tenuis, 15 to 20. Ilio-colica, Colica dextra, Colica media. The branches of the mesenteric arteries have a peculiar distribution : they form in the first instance a succession of arches, by the communication of their larger branches. From these are developed secondary arches, and from the latter a third series of arches from which the branches arise, which are to be distributed to the coats of the intestine. By means of these arches a direct communica- tion is established throughout the entire length of the alimentary canal, from the stomach to the rectum. The branches to the small intestines communicate with the pancreatico-duodenalis, a branch of the hepatic, above, and with the ilio-colic below. The Ilio-colic is given off from about the middle of the trunk of the superior mesenteric; it divides into branches, which are distributed to the lower end of the ileum and the commencement of the colon, and inosculates on theINFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 349 one hand with the termination of the superior mesenteric artery, and on the other with the colica dextra. The Colica dextra arises from the superior mesenteric, a little above its middle ; it is distributed to the ascending colon, and inosculates with the ilio-colic and colica media. The Colica media arises from the upper part of the superior mesenteric, and passes forwards between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, to be distributed to the transverse colon. It inosculates on the right with the colica dextra, and on the left with the colica sinistra, a branch of the inferior mesenteric. Each branch of the superior mesenteric artery is accompanied by a vein, which is returning the blood from the intestines. The union of these veins forms a large trunk, the superior mesenteric vein, which is situated to the right of the artery, and passes behind the pancreas to unite with the inferior mesenteric, splenic, and gastric veins, and thus form the vena portce. The Lacteals are almost too minute to be seen in an ordinary dissection; but they may often be detected as a number of minute opaque lines, converging to the mesen- teric glands. They terminate in the receptaculum chyli. The Mesenteric glands are lymphatic glands in struc- ture and function ; they are most numerous near the attached border of the root of the mesentery. The Superior mesenteric plexus accompanies the branches of the artery, and is distributed to the coats of the intestine ; it is derived from the solar plexus. Dissection.— The small intestines should now be removed by cutting through the mesentery near to its intestinal border, and placing a ligature around the jejunum at its commencement, and another around the ileum near its termination. They may then be set aside for the purpose of examining their interior, and the arrangement of the mucous membrane, at a convenient moment. It would be desirable also that the student should inflate a portion of the upper part of the jejunum, and of the lower part of the ileum, that he may observe their appearance when dry. The valvulae conniventes will thus form a pretty and useful preparation. Then dissect carefully the anterior layer of the left meso-colon, and the inferior mesenteric artery, with its branches, will be brought into view. The Inferior mesenteric artery arises from the abdominal aorta, about two inches below the origin of the superior mesenteric. It descends between the layers of350 CCELIAC AXIS. GASTRIC ARTERY. the left mesocolon, to the left iliac fossa, where it divides into three branches : — Colica sinistra, Sigmoideae, Superior haemorrhoidal. The Colica sinistra is distributed to the descending colon, and ascends to inosculate with the colica media. This is the largest arterial inosculation in the body. The Sigmoideae are several branches which are distri- buted to the sigmoid flexure of the descending colon. They form arches, and inosculate above with the colica sinistra, and below with the superior haemorrhoidal artery. The Superior haemorrhoidal artery descends along the meso-rectum, to the upper part of the rectum, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with the middle haemor- rhoidal branches of the internal pudic. The Inferior mesenteric vein is formed by the con- vergence of branches returning the blood along the course of the artery, and terminates behind the pancreas in the portal vein. The Lymphatics pass inwards to the numerous glands situated along the course of the aorta. The Inferior mesenteric plexus accompanies, with its filaments, all the branches of the artery. It is derived from the solar and aortic plexuses. Dissection, — The large intestines should now be removed alto- gether, and a ligature placed around the upper part of the rectum. The student should then pin up the liver and inflate the duodenum and stomach with a small quantity of air. The blowpipe may be inserted for this purpose into the upper part of the jejunum, which was left on the removal of the small intestines. Next remove the middle portion of the lesser omentum, and feel for the coeliac axis. The branches of the coeliac axis should then be dissected and followed to their distribution. It would be well to avoid disturbing the coeliac axis itself at present, as it is surrounded by the solar plexus, which must be afterwards examined. The Coeliac axis is the first single trunk given off by the abdominal aorta; it is very short, and divides into three large arteries, the gastric, hepatic, and splenic. The Gastric artery (coronaria ventriculi) ascends between the two layers of lesser omentum to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, then runs along the lesser curva-HEPATIC ARTERY. — SPLENIC ARTERY. 351 ture to the pylorus, where it inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. It is distributed to the lower end of the oesophagus, and the lesser curve of the stomach. The Hepatic artery curves forwards and ascends along the right border of the lesser omentum to the liver, where it divides into two branches (right and left) which enter the transverse fissure, and are distributed to the right and left lobes. The branches of the hepatic artery are the Pyloric. y. j , . f Gastro-epiploica dextra, Gastro-duodenahs | Pancrea£c£.duodenaUs. Cystic. The Pyloric branch is distributed to the pylorus and lesser curve of the stomach, and inosculates with the gastric. The Gastro-duodenalis descends behind the pylorus, and divides into two branches, the gastro-epiploica dextra and pancreatico-duodenalis. The gastro-epiploica dextra runs along the great curve of the stomach, and inoscu- lates at about its middle with the gastro-epiploica sinistra, a branch of the splenic artery. It supplies the great curve of the stomach, and the great omentum, hence the derivation of its name. The pancreatico-duodenalis curves along the fixed border of the duodenum, and is distributed to it and to the head of the pancreas : it anastomoses with the first jejunal branch of the superior mesenteric artery. The Cystic is a small branch distributed between the coats of the gall bladder. The Splenic artery passes outwards along the upper border of the pancreas to the spleen, where it divides into five or six large branches, which are distributed to that organ. It usually makes several serpentine bends in its course, and sometimes a complete circular curve upon itself. Its branches are, — Pancreaticae parvae, Pancreatica magna, Vasa brevia, Gastro-epiploica sinistra. The Pancreaticce par vex are small nutrient branchesthe liver. 352 distributed to the pancreas, as the splenic artery runs along its upper border. One of these, larger than the rest, follows the course of the pancreatic duct, and is called pancreatica magna. The Vasa brevia are several small branches distributed to the great end of the stomach. The Gasti'o-epiploica sinistra runs forwards from left to right along the great curve of the stomach, and inoscu- lates with the gastro-epiploica dextra. It is distributed to the greater curve of the stomach and great omentum. The Gastric and splenic veins terminate in the portal vein, and the hepatic veins in the vena cava. Each of the arteries is accompanied by a corresponding plexus of nerves derived from the solar plexus ; they are the gastric, hepatic, and splenic plexuses. The relations of the vessels situated in the right border of the lesser omentum should now be examined more particularly. The hepatic artery will be found to the left, the ductus communis choledochus to the right, and the portal vein behind and between them. The student will also perceive very distinctly how the lower boundary of the foramen of Winslow is formed by the hepatic artery. The Ductus communis choledochus is formed by the junction of the hepatic with the cystic duct. It descends along the right margin of the lesser omentum, and behind the descending duodenum to its inner border. It termi- nates with the pancreatic duct, near the inferior angle of the duodenum, after running for some distance obliquely between the muscular and mucous coats of the intestine. Just before its termination it is considerably constricted. Its entrance upon the inner surface of the intestine is marked by a small elevated papilla. The Liver may now be removed from the abdomen and examined separately. To effect this object it will be necessary to cut through the folds of peritoneum which are connected with its upper surface, and the hepatic artery, ductus communis choledochus, portal vein, and vena cava from below. The Liver is situated in the right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypo- chondrium. It presents a narrow thin border anteriorly, which corresponds with the margin of the thorax, and a rounded border posteriorly, which rests against the dia- phragm. Superiorly it is convex, and infcriorly concave.LOBES. FISSURES. 353 It is divided into five lobes, two principal and three minor lobes; they are the Right lobe, Left lobe, Lobulus quadratus, Spigelii, caudatus. The lobes are separated from each other by fissures, of which there are also five, viz., the Longitudinal fissure, Fissure for the ductus venosus, Transverse fissure, Fissure for the gall bladder, Fissure for the vena cava. The Bight and Left lobes are separated by the longitu- dinal fissure, and in front by the notch which lodges the round ligament. The right is much larger than the left, and presents the subdivisions which give rise to the minor lobes. The Lobulus quadratus is bounded in front by the free border of the liver, and, behind, by the transverse fissure; to the right by the gall bladder, and to the left by the longitudinal fissure. The Lobulus Spigelii* is a small triangular lobe, which is bounded in front by the transverse fissure, and on the sides by the fissures for the ductus venosus and vena cava. The Lobulus caudatus is a small tail-like appendage to the lobulus Spigelii, from which it runs outwards like a crest into the right lobe. In some livers it is extremely well marked, in others it is small and ill defined. The Longitudinal fissure runs from before backwards, commencing at a deep notch in the anterior border of the liver. At about half way between the anterior and posterior borders, it is joined by the transverse fissure which originates in the right lobe. The continuation of the longitudinal fissure backwards, from the extremity of * Adrian Spigel, a Belgian physician, professor at Padua after Casserius in 1616. He assigned considerable importance to this little lobe, but it was described by Sylvius full si*ty years before him,354* LIVER. LIGAMENTS. VESSELS. the transverse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, is the fissure for the ductus venosus. The Fissure for the gall bladder is simply the depression in which that organ is lodged, and the fissure for the vena cava a deep notch, sometimes a short tunnel in the posterior rounded border of the liver through which the vessel passes. Upon the upper or convex surface of the liver are seen its ligaments : these are, the Two lateral, Longitudinal, Coronary, Round. The two Lateral ligaments are formed by the two layers of peritoneum, which pass from the under surface of the diaphragm to the liver. They correspond with the two lobes; one being the right, the other the left lateral liga- ment. The Longitudinal ligament (broad, ligamentum sus- pensorium hepatis) is an antero-posterior fold of peri- toneum, extending from the notch on the anterior border of the liver to the junction of the lateral ligaments. At the union of the longitudinal ligament with the two lateral, a triangular space is left which is uncovered by peritoneum, and where the diaphragm is in contact with the substance of the liver. The peritoneum around this space forms a kind of corona, hence it is called coronary ligament. The Round ligament is a fibrous cord, situated between the two layers of peritoneum in the anterior border of the broad ligament. It may be traced from the umbilicus to the notch in the anterior border of the liver, and through the longitudinal fissure to the vena cava. It is the re- mains of the umbilical vein of the foetus. The vessels entering into the structure of the liver are also five in number : they are, the Hepatic artery, Portal vein, Hepatic veins, Hepatic ducts, Lymphatics.355 GALL-BLADDER. The Hepatic artery and Portal vein enter the liver at the transverse fissure ; from which point the branches of the portal vein spread out to every part of the liver, so that their direction is from below upwards. The Hepatic veins commence at the circumference of the liver, and proceed from before backwards, to open into the vena cava upon its posterior border. Hence the branches of the two veins cross each other in their course. The portal vein is accompanied to its ultimate divisions by a loose cellular tissue, the capsule of Glisson, which surrounds it in the right border of the lesser omentum. This capsule, by establishing only a loose connection between the vessels and the substance of the liver, permits the veins to contract upon themselves, when emptied of their blood. The branches of the hepatic veins, on the contrary, are closely united by the circum- ference of their cylinders to the substance of the liver, hence they are unable to contract. The student will, therefore, easily distinguish between the openings of the two veins in a section of the organ: the branches of the portal vein will be found collapsed, and those of the hepatic veins widely open. Again, in company with the portal vein, he will observe the hepatic artery and ducts, while the hepatic veins are solitary. Vessels and nerves. — The liver is supplied'with the hepatic artery for nutrition ; the portal vein for secre- tion ; and the hepatic veins to convey to the inferior cava the residual blood. The smaller hepatic ducts unite to form a single duct for each of the two principal lobes, and these again form, by their union, the common hepatic duct. The Lymphatics are variously distributed : those of the convex surface proceed upwards through the anterior mediastinum to the glands about the heart, and those from the concave surface pass backwards to the recepta- culum chyli. The Nerves of the liver are the filaments of the hepatic plexus, derived from the solar plexus. The Gall-bladder is of a pyriform shape, and is lodged in a fissure on the under surface of the right lobe.356 kiernan’s researches on the The apex is directed upwards, and the fundus projects slightly beyond the narrow free border of the liver. It has three coats, an internal mucous, middle fibrous, and, external, a partial investment of peritoneum. The Internal, or mucous coat, presents a beautifully reticulated structure in the interior of the bladder, and at its neck forms a spiral valve. It is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous membrane lining all the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus communis choledochus, with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The Fibrous membrane is a thin, but strong layer, formed by an interlacement of tendinous fibres. It is connected on the one side with the liver, and on the other with the peritoneum. The Peritoneal coat is a partial covering, investing only that side of the bladder which is unattached. It serves to bind down the gall-bladder, and keep it in its place. The excretory duct of the gall-bladder is the cystic, which unites with the hepatic to form the ductus com- munis choledochus. It is by the latter that the bile is conveyed into the duodenum. Structure and Minute Anatomy of the Liver, according to Mr. Kiernan. The Liver is composed of lobules, of a connecting medium called Qlisson's captsule, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic ducts, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves, and is enclosed and retained in its proper situation by the peritoneum. We shall describe each of these structures singly, following rigidly the dis- coveries of Mr. Kiernan. 1st. The Lobules are small granular bodies of an irregular form, and presenting a number of rounded projecting processes upon their surface. When divided longitudinally (jig. 44. 2.) they have a foliated appearance, and transversely (Jig. 43. 1.) a polygonal outline with sharp or rounded angles, according to the smaller or greater quantity of Glisson’s capsule contained in the liver. The base (Jig. 44. 4.) of each lobule is flattened and rests upon an hepatic vein, which is thence named sublobular. The rest of the surface of the lobule is called capsular, and is enclosed in a cellular sheath derived from Glisson’s capsule. This cellular sheath separates each lobule from those surrounding it, and the interval in which it is contained is called the inter-lobular Jissure (Jig. 44. 6. Jig. 43. S.). At the angle formed by the apposition of several lobules, the inter-lobular fissureMINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 357 dilates into a small space of a triangular or quadrangular form : this is the inter-lobular space (Jig. 43. 13.) In the centre of each lobule is situated a small vein (Jig. 4S. 2. Jig. 44. 3.), the intra-lobular, which runs in the longitudinal direction of the lobule, and passes through the centre of its base to terminate in the sub-lobular vein, and thus forms a principal bond of connection between the lobule and the vein. The intra-lobular vein invariably corresponds with the form of the lobule: it is composed of a central vessel, and of from four to six or eight smaller vessels, which terminate in the central vessel. The central vessel represents the centre of the lobule, and the smaller ves- sels the number of processes which are developed upon its surface. There is a slight variety of form between the lobules of the centre and those of the surface ; the former are more angular, from being compressed by the surrounding substance; the latter have the outline more rounded, and appear larger from being placed obliquely on the hepatic veins which pass nearly parallel with the upper and lower surfaces of the liver to terminate at its posterior border. “ The form of the lobules bears no relation to the arrangement of the ducts, the form of each lobule being always correspondent to the branches of the intra-lobular hepatic vein occupying the centre of the lobule.” “ Each lobule is composed of a plexus of biliary ducts, of a venous plexus formed by branches of the portal vein, of a branch of an he- patic vein, and of minute arteries; nerves and absorbents, it is to be presumed, also enter into their formation, but cannot be traced into them.” “ Examined with the microscope, a lobule is apparently com- posed of numerous minute bodies of a yellowish colour, and of various forms, connected with each other by vessels. These minute bodies are the acini of Malpighi.” “ If an uninjected lobule be examined and contrasted with an injected lobule, it will be found that the acini of Malpighi in the former are identical with the injected lobular biliary plexus in the latter, and the blood-vessels in both will be easily distinguished from the ducts.” Glisson’s capsule is the cellular tissue which envelops the hepatic vessels in the right border of the lesser omentum, and accompanies them through the transverse fissure to their ultimate ramifications. It forms a distinct capsule for each of the lobules, and is continuous with the fibrous layer which invests the entire liver, its proper capsule. But“ Glisson’s capsule,” observes Mr. Kiernan, “is not mere cellular tissue; it is to the liver what the pia mater is to the brain; it is a cellulo-vascular membrane in which the vessels divide and subdivide to an extreme degree of minuteness; which lines the portal canals, forming sheaths for the larger vessels contained in them, and a web in which the smaller vessels ramify; which enters the inter-lobular fissures, and with the vessels forms the capsules of the lobules, and which finally enters the lobules, and with the blood-vessels expands itself over the secreting biliary ducts. Hence arises a natural division of the capsule into three portions, a vaginal, an inter-lobular, and a lobular portion. ” The Vaginal portion encloses the portal vein, hepatic duct,’and artery in the canals through which they ramify. In the larger canalskiernan’s researches. 358 it surrounds the vessels completely, but in the smaller it is situated only to that side on which the duct and artery are placed; the opposite side of the portal vein being in close contact with the capsular sur- faces of the lobules. The Inter-lobular portion forming the sheath of each of the lobules, and occupying the inter-lobular fissures, gives support to the ramifi- cations of the portal vein, nepatic ducts, and artery, previously to their entrance into the lobules The Lobular portion accompanies the vessels into the substance of the lobule. The Portal vein ramifies through the liver in canals which commence at the transverse fissure, and spread from below upwards throughout the entire organ. These portal canals are formed by the capsular surfaces of the lobules, and contain, besides the vein, a duct and an artery. The branches of the vein, according to the arrangement established by Mr. Kiernan, are divisible into those which are given off in the canals, vaginal; those which ramify into the inter-lobular fissures, inter-lobular ; and the terminal branches which are distributed within the lobules, lobular. The trunks of the portal vein, hepatic duct, and artery, are com- pletely surrounded by Glisson’s capsule in the larger canals; but in the smaller ones (Jig. 43.) the capsule (9.) is situated only at that side * Fig. 43. Transverse section of a small portal canal and its ves- sels from Mr. Kiernan’s paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833. No. 1. Transverse sections of the lobules of the liver. 2. Intra- lobular hepatic veins in the centres of the lobules. 3. Inter-lobular fissures, in which ramify branches of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic ducts. 4. The portal vein, from which pass of! on all sides inter-lobular veins (5. 5.) which ramify in the inter-lobular fissures. 6. The hepatic artery. 7. The hepatic duct. 8. A branchPORTAL VEIN. 359 * on which the duct and artery are placed, the vein on the opposite side of its cylinder being in contact with capsular surfaces of the lobules. The portal vein being thus separated from the lobules, all around in the larger canals, and for one third of its cylinder in the smaller, forms a plexus which ramifies in the capsule of Glisson, and has the effect of bringing the vein in relation with all the lobules forming the canal. The branches of the vein forming this plexus which extends throughout the whole course of the canals, are the vaginal, and from the plexus are given off the inter-lobular veins opposite each inter- lobular space. From the side of the vein which is in contact with the lobules in the smaller canals, the inter-lobular veins are given off directly to the inter-lobular spaces, no vaginal branches or plexus being necessary. If the smaller portal veins be laid open, the outline of the lobules bounded by the inter-lobular fissures will be seen through their coats, and the opening of a venous branch will be ob- served to correspond with each inter-lobular space. “ The Inter-lobular branches (Jig. 43. 5. 5.) of the portal vein cover, with their ramifications, the whole external surface of the lobules, with the exception of their bases, and of those extremities of the superficial lobules which appear on the surfaces of the liver. The freest communications take place between these vessels; when successfully injected, which can be done with size only, the inter- lobular fissures in which they are contained, whether examined on the surfaces of the liver or on the surface of a section, are coloured with the injection. Mercury thrown into a large branch of the portal vein returns by other large branches. This communication takes place through the medium of the inter-lobular branches; for though the vaginal branches in the same canal anastomose freely with each other, yet those of one canal communicate with those of another through the medium of the intervening inter-lobular branches alone. The inter-lobular veins also form communications between the lobular veins of a lobule and those of contiguous lobules. Hence it appears that the freest anastomoses exist between all the branches of the portal vein, and that the inter-lobular branches form the medium of com- munication. “ When the portal vein is imperfectly injected, and the venous circles, formed by its inter-lobular branches around the lobules, are not brought into view, these branches are seen in the spaces, and three or four smaller branches are seen shooting into the fissures communi- ty from each of the three vessels seen entering one of the inter- i lobular fissures. 9. The cellular tissue, Glisson’s capsule, by which t they are all surrounded. It will be observed that the boundaries of ) the canal in which the portal vein is lodged, are formed by the sides ff the lobules and inter-lobular fissures, and not by the bases of the 1! obules, as are those of the sub-lobular veins. 10. A lobule in the ;tate of “ passive congestion,” or “ hepatic venous congestion.” 11. A obule in the state of portal venous congestion. 12. The patches in- lr licating the existence of “ active congestion.”kiernan’s researches. 360 eating with the spaces. These are the stellated vessels of anatomists. When the vessels are well injected the stellaj are all continuous with each other, and the venous circles are formed; the stellated appear- ance, therefore, arises from the incomplete injection of the vessels.” The Lobular veins form a plexus within each lobule, and converge from the circumference to the centre to terminate in the hepatic vein. “ This plexus interposed between the inter-lobular portal veins and the iutra-lobular hepatic vein, constitutes the venous part of the lobule, and maybe called the lobular venous plexus. The circular, ovoid, and oblong portions of the biliary plexus, seen,” by means of a microscope of moderate power, “ between the branches of the venous plexus, are the acini of Malpighi. The venous branches returning the blood from the coats of the ducts, and from the vasa vasorum of all the vessels in the liver, terminate in the portal vein.” The Hepatic duct (Jig. 43. 7.) enters the liver by the transverse fissure, and accompanies the portal vein and hepatic artery through- out all the ramifications of the portal canals, and through the inter- lobular fissures, to the substance of the lobules, wherein it terminates by forming the lobular biliary plexus. Hence, the division which Mr. Kiernan has established for the portal vein, hepatic artery, and Glis- son’s capsule, is equally applicable to the duct, viz. vaginal, inter- lobular, and lobular. The Vaginal branches arisevfrom the principal ducts, nearly at right angles, and passing transversely across the capsule, divide into numerous branches, which form the vaginal plexus. The branches of the plexus run in the direction of the fissures, so as to form a net-work of vessels, corresponding in form to the fissures upon which they lie. From this net-work of ducts both lobular and inter-lobular branches arise; “ the former enter the lobules on the parietes of the canals ; the latter leave the canals at the spaces, to ramify between the lobules.” “ The transverse branches, and those which arise immediately from them, do not anastomose with each other, but the smaller branches sometimes appear to do so; I cannot, however, from dissection, affirm that they do, for those which appear to anastomose are exceed- ingly small vessels, and meet each other at the spaces, hence it is difficult to ascertain whether they really anastomose, or enter the spaces together without anastomosing.” The Inter-lobular ducts ramify with branches of the portal vein and hepatic artery, upon the capsules of the lobules in the inter-lobulur fissures. They communicate very freely with each other, so that in- jection thrown into the hepatic duct of the left side will return by that of the right. The Lobular ducts enter the substance of the lobules, and form a plexus, the lobular biliary, of which the lobule is principally com- posed. They terminate in ccecal extremities, as do other glands, and form the true glandular portion of the lobule. “ The coats of the ducts are highly vascular: the rugaj on their in- ternal surface, and those on the internal surface of the gall-bladder are formed by the ramifications of the larger blood-vessels, arteries as well as veins, covered by the mucous membrane. This membrane is361 HEPATIC DUCT HEPATIC ARTERY. studded with vascular papillae; and to the rupture of the delicate vessels forming these papilla: is to be attributed the facility with which Soem- mering and other anatomists injected the ducts from the arteries and veins, and not to any direct communication between the vessels and the ducts.” The venous blood is returned from the ducts into the portal vein. “ From their extreme vascularity alone we might infer, that the ducts serve another purpose besides that of the conveyance of bile; and all anatomists are acquainted with the muciparous follicles of the lining membrane of their larger branches; in the smaller branches the existence of the follicles has been denied. In the former they are irregularly distributed over the surface ; in the latter they are closely arranged in two longitudinal lines, occupying opposite sides of the ducts ; and arranged in this manner they will be found in the smallest duct that can be examined.” The Hepatic artery enters the liver with the portal vein and he- patic duct, at the transverse fissure, and accompanies their ramifica- tions to their ultimate terminations. Its branches, therefore, admit of the same division, with those of the portal vein and hepatic duct, into the vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. In the portal canals, “ the hepatic artery (Jig. 43. 6.) and duct (7.), running together on one side of the canai, or winding spirally within it, are in opposition with but a very limited number of spaces; the two vessels are, however, brought into opposition with all the spaces by means of plexuses, from which the interlobular branches arise. ” “ The branches forming those plexuses are the first which arise from the artery, duct, and vein ; they form a vascular sheath around these vessels, and may be called vaginal branches." The Vaginal branches anastomose very freely with each other, so much so that “ if the left artery be injected in the transverse fissure, the injection will return by the right artery ; this communication takes place by means of vaginal branches, which the left artery gives off in the fissure, and which anastomose with similar branches of the right artery.” The Interlobular arteries are given off from the vaginal plexus, and enter the interlobular spaces and fissures, and are distributed upon the capsular surface of the lobules, but more particularly within the coats of the interlobular ducts, around which they form a very vascular net- work. “ No anastomoses can be shown to exist between the inter- lobular arteries ; ” — “ but, as the vaginal arteries communicate freely with each other, and as the interlobular ducts also communicate with each other, and as the arteries ramify in the coats of the ducts, we may conclude that the interlobular arteries anastomose.” “ From the superficial interlobular fissures, small arteries emerge and ramify in the proper capsule, on the convex and concave surface of the liver, and in the ligaments. These are the capsular arteries." \\ here the capsule is well developed, “ these vessels cover the surfaces of the liver with a beautiful plexus,” and “ anastomose with branches if the phrenic, internal mammary, and supra-renal arteries,” and with he epigastric. Rkiernan’s researches. 362 “ The Lobular arteries are exceedingly minute and few in number: they are the nutrient vessels of the lobules, and, probably, terminate in the plexuses formed by the portal vein.” “ The Hepatic Veins are contained in canals, which may be called the hepatic venous canals;" they commence in the interior of each lobule, by the intra-lobular vein. The intra-lobular vein,Jig. 44. 3. pierces the base of each lobule, 5., to enter the sublobular vein, 1.; and the union of the sub-lobular veins forms the large trunks of the hepatic veins, which terminate in the inferior cava. The intra-lobular veins correspond therefore to the inter-lobular branches of the portal vein, duct, and artery; but as the former open directly into the sub- lobular veins, it follows that the hepatic veins have nothing analogous to the vaginal branches and plexuses of the vessels contained in the portal canals; “ and as Glisson’s capsule is composed of the vaginal vessels ramifying in cellular tissue, we consequently find nothing similar to this capsule around the hepatic veins. ” The hepatic veins are, therefore, closely adherent to the surface of the lobules. The Intra-lobular veins {Jig. 44. 3. 3.), are formed by the converging branches from the lobular-venous plexus; they occupy the centre of each lobule, and pass through its base to terminate in the sublobular veins. They have no communication with the branches of the ar- tery, and “ their only office is to convey the blood from the lobular venous plexus.” The Sublobular veins {Jig. 44. 1.), are the branches which unite to * Fig. 44. The distribution of the hepatic veins, according to Mr. Kiernan. From Mr. Kiernan’s paper in the Philosophical Trans- actions for 1833. No. 1. A section of a sublobular vein. 2. Longitudinal sections of the lobules, presenting a foliated appearance. 3. 3. Intra-lobular veins. 4. “ The bases of other lobules seen through the coats of the vein, and forming the canal in which the vein is contained. 5. Tht openings of intra-lobular veins, which issue from the centre of the base of each lobule. 6. The interlobular fissures separating the bases of the lobules. Fig. 44.* ^HEPATIC VEIN. — SUMMARY. 363 R 2 form the trunks of the hepatic veins; they are contained in canals formed solely by the bases of the lobules 4., hence they are named sublobular. The bases of all the lobules in the liver are in contact with the cylinder of these veins, and have no intermediate lining of capsular membrane. The coats of the vein are “ delicate in texture ; they are transparent; the lobules and fissures are seen through them,” and “ their internal surface is studded with the orifices (5) of the intra-lobular veins,” which are seen opening from the centre of the base of each lobule. “ The trunks ” of the hepatic veins “ are more dense in structure; their external coat is composed of longitudinal bands; their canals are lined by prolongations of the proper capsule, which render them opake.” The lobules and fissures cannot be seen through them, and “ they receive no intra-lobular branches.” “ Dense in structure, they are not adapted to receive these minute and delicate veins; their canals, therefore, unlike those containing the sublobular veins, are like those containing the portal veins, composed of the capsular surfaces of the lobules, the intra-lobular branches of which terminate in a neighbouring sublobular vein.” The nerves and deep-seated lymphatics “ ramify in the portal canals; I have not been able to trace them into the interlobular fissures. The lymphatics “may always be injected from the duct, and the bile is fre- quently propelled into the former vessels by injecting the latter.” No lymphatics “accompany the hepatic veins.” The “ superficial lymphatics ramify in the proper capsule.” “ Injection sometimes passes from the i arteries and portal veins into the lymphatics.” It is to Mr. Kiernan that anatomical science is indebted for the clear distinct and intelligible idea of the structure of this most com- plicated organ, which has been furnished by the researches of that matomist. To value this knowledge as it deserves, we have but to effect upon the unsuccessful, though not fruitless, labours of those ;reat discoverers in structural anatomy, Malpighi and Ruysch, upon he same subject. It is not, however, in an anatomical or even a ihysiological point of view merely, that we have to admire these dis- overies, for in their practical application to the elucidation of patho- ogical appearances, and the explanation of the phenomena of disease, hey are still more interesting. The liver has been shown to be composed of lobules;—the lobules excepting their bases) are invested and connected together, the vessels {I jpported, and the whole organ enclosed by Glisson's capsule;—and [ tey are so arranged that the base of every lobule in the liver is in intact with an hepatic vein. The Portal vein distributes its numberless branches through portal mals which are channelled through every part of the organ ; it brings e returning blood from the chylo-poietic viscera; it collects also the nous blood from the ultimate ramifications of the hepatic artery in e liver itself. It gives off branches in the canals which arc called final, and form a venous va,final plexus; these give off interlobular inches, and the latter enter the lobules and form lobular venous from the blood circulating in which the bile is secreted. •xuscs,364- PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL DEDUCTIONS. The Bile in the lobule is received by a network of minute ducts, the lobular biliary plexus; it is conveyed from the lobule into the interlobular ducts; it is thence poured into the biliary vaginal plexus of the portal canals, and by the transverse branches into the excreting ducts, by which it is carried to the duodenum and gall-bladder, after being mingled in its course with the mucous secretion from the num- berless muciparous follicles in the walls of the ducts. The Hepatic artery distributes branches through every portal canal; gives o ff vaginal branches which form an arterial vaginal plexus, from which the interlobular branches arise, and these latter terminate in the lobular venous plexuses of the portal vein. It ramifies abundantly in the coats of the hepatic ducts, enabling them to provide their mucous secretion ; and supplies the vasa vasorum of the portal and hepatic veins, and the nutrient vessels of the entire organ. The Hepatic veins commence in the centre of each lobule by minute radicles, which collect the impure blood from the lobular venous plexus and convey it into the intra-lobular veins; these open into the sublobular veins, and the sublobular veins unite to form the large he- patic trunks by which the blood is conveyed into the vena cava. The physiological deduction arising out of this anatomical arrange- ment, is, that the bile is secreted from mixed blood. For the portal veins bringing the returning blood from the chylo-poietic viscera, receive also the venous blood which has resulted from the circulation of the arterial blood in the hepatic arteries, and the arterial blood itself of the terminations of the arteries in the lobular venous plexus. The bile is, therefore, separated from blood derived from three different sources. The pathological deductions depend upon the following facts: — Each lobule is a perfect gland; of uniform structure; of uniform co- lour; and possessing the same degree of vascularity throughout. It is the seat of a double venous circulation, the vessels of the one (hepatic) being situated in the centre of the lobule, and those of the other (portal) in the circumference. Now the colour of the lobule, as of the entire liver, depends chiefly upon the proportion of blood contained within these two sets of vessels ; and so long as the circula- tion is natural, the colour will be uniform. But the instant that any cause is developed which shall interfere with the free circulation of either, there will be an immediate diversity in the colour of the lobule. Thus, if there be any impediment to the free circulation of the ve- nous blood, through the heart or lungs, the circulation in the hepatic veins will be retarded, and the sublobular and the intra-lobular veins will become congested, giving rise to a more or less extensive redness in the centre of each of the lobules {fig. 43. 10.), while the marginal or non-congested portion presents a distinct border of a yellowish white, yellow, or green colour, according to the quantity and quality of the bile it may contain. “ This is 1 passive congestion ’ of the liver, the usual and natural state of the organ after deatli; ” and, as it com- mences witli the hepatic vein, it may be called the first stage of hepatic- venous congestion. But if the causes which produced this state of congestion continue)365 STRUCTURE. SPLEEN. R 3 or be from the beginning of a more active kind, the congestion will extend through the lobular venous plexuses “ into those branches of the portal vein situated in the inter-lobular fissures, but not to those in the spaces, which, being larger, and giving origin to those in the fissures, are the last to be congested.” In this second stage the liver has a mottled appearance (fig. 43. 12.1, the noncongested substance is arranged in isolated, circular, and ramose patches, in the centres of which the spaces and parts of the fissures are seen. This is an ex- tended degree of hepatic venous congestion ; it is “ active congestion ” of the liver, and very commonly attends diseases of the heart, and acute diseases of the lungs and pleura. There is another form of partial venous congestion which com- mences in the portal vein: this is, therefore, portal venous congestion. It is of very rare occurrence, and Mr. Kiernan has observed it in children only. “ In this form the congested substance never assumes the deep red colour which characterises hepatic venous congestion ; the inter-lobular fissures and spaces, and the marginal portions of the lobules are of a deeper colour than usual ; the congested substance is continuous and cortical, the non-congested substance being medul- lary, and occupying the centres of the lobules (fig. 43. 11.). The second stage of hepatic-venous congestion, in which the congested substance appears, but is not cortical, may be easily confounded with portal venous congestion. These are instances of partial congestion, but there is sometimes general congestion of the organ. “ In general congestion the whole liver is of a red colour, but the central portions of the lobules are usually of a deeper hue than the marginal portions.” If the stomach be raised and drawn over to the right side, the student will perceive the spleen attached to its greater end. The Spleen is a flattened organ of a dark bluish red colour, convex upon one surface, and concave on the other. Its edges usually present several notches. Its external or convex surface lies in relation with the diaphragm and ribs, the internal or concave, is applied against the great or splenic end of the stomach, and is marked by a fissure (hilus lienis), through which the vessels enter and leave the substance of the organ. It is connected to the stomach by a duplicature of peritoneum, which is there- fore called gastro-splenic omentum. It is between the two layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, that the vasa brevia reach the great end of the stomach. Structure.— In addition to its peritoneal covering, the spleen is enclosed in a capsule of elastic tissue, which sends processes into the interior of the organ, and divides it into a number of cells; the fibrous membrane is also366 PANCREAS* continued inwards, with the vessels forming sheaths for them to their ultimate ramifications. Some small granular corpuscules are found disseminated through the substance of the spleen in animals, and in a few rare instances they have been observed in man. The student should now remove the stomach after passing a liga- ture around the cardiae and pyloric orifices, by dividing the gastro- splenic omentum, and separating its connections with vessels, and with the oesophagus and duodenum. Having left the duodenum in its normal position, he should inflate it and observe its relations to surrounding parts, and then proceed to examine the pancreas. The Pancreas is a conglomerate gland, lying trans- versely across the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is di- vided into a greater and lesser end, the great end or head being situated to the right in contact with the descending portion of the duodenum, is enclosed in the triangular space formed by the curved course of that intestine. From the greater end it tapers gradually to the lesser, and terminates in a point near to the concave surface of the spleen. It is covered in front by the ascending posterior layer of peritoneum and by the stomach. Behind it rests upon the commencement of the vena portse, the vena cava and the origin of the superior mesenteric artery from the aorta, opposite to the second lumbar vertebra. The transverse duodenum occupies its loiver border, the superior mesenteric artery and vein being interposed, and the splenic artery and vein are situated along its upper margin. In structure it resembles a salivary gland, consisting of lobules, from which small excretory ducts converge at right angles, to form a single pancreatic duct. Near the duodenum this duct is joined by a smaller one (ductus pancreaticus minor,) which collects the secretion from the great end of the pancreas. The pancreatic duct terminates near to the inferior angle of the duodenum in a papilla upon the mucous membrane, which is common to it and the ductus communis choledochus. Sometimes the two ducts open separately ; at other times they unite pre- viously to piercing the coats of the intestine. Their course between the coats of the duodenum is always very oblique.SEMILUNAR GANGLIA. — SYMPATHETICS. 367 The pancreas and duodenum may now be removed, and the nerves and vessels dissected which lie on the lumbar vertebrae. Near to the coeliac axis on either side and piercing the crus of the diaphragm is a large nerve, the greater splanchnic which enters an irregular ganglion of a semi- lunar form, situated by the side of the cceliac axis. The Semilunar ganglia send numerous branches of communication from one to the other, so as to form an intricate plexus around the cceliac axis, which is called the solar plexus. From the solar plexus, as from a centre, smaller plexuses are given off, which accompany all the branches of the abdominal aorta, and the aorta itself; hence we have the gastric plexus, hepatic plexus, splenic plexus, superior mesenteric plexus, spermatic plexus, in- ferior mesenteric plexus, renal plexus, aortic plexus, &c. A little external to the greater splanchnic nerve, is the lesser splanchnic, which usually pierces the diaphragm over the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and joins the renal plexus. The Sympathetic nerve, within the abdomen, descends in front of the lumbar vertebrae at each side of the great vessels. It presents four ganglia of a fusiform shape, from which branches are given off to communicate with the spinal nerves and other branches of large size, which pass inwards in front of the great vessels, and unite over the bifurcation of the aorta to form the hypogastric plexus. The branches of the hypogastric plexus are distributed to the viscera in the pelvis, and communicate very freely with those of the sacral plexus. The Abdominal aorta enters the abdomen through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and descends, lying rather to the left side of the vertebral column, to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it dividps into the two common iliac arteries. Relations. — It is crossed, in front, by the left renal vein, pancreas, transverse duodenum, and mesentery; and, behind, is in relation with the thoracic duct and receptaculum chyli. On its left side is the left semilunar ganglion and sympathetic nerve ; and, on the right, the vena cava, right semilunar ganglion, and commencement of the vena azygos. r 4*368 ABDOMINAL AORTA. BRANCHES. Branches. — The branches of the abdominal aorta, in their order of origin, are the Phrenic, ' Gastric, Coeliacaxis- Hepatic, _ Splenic, Superior mesenteric, Supra-renal, Renal, Spermatic, Inferior mesenteric, Lumbar, Sacra-media. The Phrenic are two small arteries which are distri- buted upon the under surface of the diaphragm. The Cceliac axis is destined to the supply of the sto- mach and duodenum, liver, spleen, pancreas, and omen- tum : page 350. The Superior mesenteric artery is distributed to the jejunum, ileum, coecum, ascending and transverse colon : page 348. The Supra-renal are two small vessels, sometimes branches, of the phrenic or renal arteries, distributed to the renal capsules. The Penal arteries are two large trunks given off on each side of the aorta to the kidneys ; the right is longer than the left, from the position of the aorta, and crosses behind the vena cava to reach the kidney. The Spermatic arteries are two small vessels given off from the front of the aorta ; they pass outwards to the ureters, which they accompany for a short distance, then leave them, and cross the iliacus muscle on each side to the internal abdominal ring, through which they descend along the spermatic canal to the testicle. They are each accompanied by two spermatic veins. These arteries, in the female, are distributed to the ovaries. The Inferior mesenteric artery supplies the descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and upper part of the rectum : page 349. The Lumbar arteries correspond with the intercostals369 INFERIOR CAVA. R 5 in the chest; they are five in number on each side, and curve around the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, beneath the psoas muscles, and divide into two branches; one of which passes backwards between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the muscles of the back, whilst the other supplies the abdominal muscles. In passing be- tween the psoas muscles and the vertebrae, they are pro- tected by a series of tendinous arches, which defend them and the communicating branches of the sympathetic from pressure during the action of the muscle. The Sacra media arises from the aorta at its bifurcation into the two iliacs ; it descends along the front of the sacrum, giving branches on either side, which enter the anterior sacral foramina, and supply the sacral nerves. The Inferior vena cava {fig. 13. 10.) commences at the fourth lumbar vertebra, being formed by the union of the two common iliac veins, 11. 11. It ascends along the front of the vertebral column on the right side of the aorta, and reaches the posterior border of the liver. It then passes through a groove in that organ, and through the opening in the central tendon of the diaphragm, and terminates in the under part of the right auricle. Relations. — It is crossed in front by the pancreas transverse duodenum and mesentery, and behind by the right renal and lumbar arteries. To its left is the aorta, and on the right the sympathetic nerve. Branches. — The branches which the inferior vena cava receives in the abdomen, are the Vena-sacra media {fig. 13. 14.) Lumbar - - 15. Right spermatic - - 16. Renal - - 17. 18. Hepatic - - 19. The Vena-sacra media {fig. 13. 14.) terminates at the junction of the two common iliac veins. The Lumbar veins, 15. 15., return the venous blood rom the muscles of the posterior part of the abdomen, ind from the spinal veins. The upper lumbar branches communicate with the azygos veins. Fig. 13. p. 134.KIDNEYS. 370 The Right spermatic vein {fig. 13. 16.) is formed by the union of the veins of the right spermatic cord. It follows the course of the right spermatic artery, and ter- minates in the inferior cava. The Renal veins {fig. 13. 17. 18.) return the venous blood from the kidneys; the left is longer than the right, on account of the position of the vena cava on the right side, and crosses the aorta to open into it. The sperma- tic vein of the left side terminates, at right angles, in the left renal vein : hence arises an impediment to the return of the blood, both on account of the greater length of the left than the right spermatic vein, and the direction of its entrance into the renal vein. As a consequence of this obstacle, varicocele occurs most frequently on the left side. The Hepatic veins are of very large size, and open into the cava while that vessel is situated within the liver. Kidneys. The Kidneys are situated in the lumbar regions, on each side of the vertebral column, and behind the peri- toneum. They are usually enclosed in a quantity of fat, and rest upon the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which separates them from the quadratus lumborum, and upon the lower border of the diaphragm. They are surmounted by the renal capsules, two yellowish triangular and flattened bodies, which pro- ject inwards towards the vertebral column, and are closely connected with the semilunar ganglia, from which they receive a number of filaments. The renal capsules belong to the economy of the foetus, in which they are as large as the kidneys themselves. In the adult they consist of two lobes, and have an internal cavity, which contains a dark coloured fluid. The right kidney is somewhat lower than the left, being pressed downward by the liver; it is in relation in front with the descending portion of the duodenum. The concavity of the kidney is directed towards the vertebral column, and receives the vessels ; the convexity looks outwards towards the parietes. SxuucTunE. — Each kidney is invested by its proper371 R 6 STRUCTURE. URETERS. fibrous capsule. When divided by a perpendicular sec- tion, it presents two structures, an external, vascular (cortical), which is of a red colour, and consists chiefly of the ramifications of vessels, and an internal, tubular (medullary), of a light colour and smooth texture, formed by the aggregation of the minute excretory tubuli. The tubuli are arranged into conical processes, called Cones. Each cone terminates in a Papilla, which is pierced by a number of minute openings, which are the terminations of the tubuli. The points of the papillae are invested with mucous membrane, which is continuous with the lining of the tubuli, and forms a small cup-like pouch, the Calyx, around the extremity of each papilla. There are from fifteen to twenty of these calices. Their union at each extremity, and in the middle of the kidney, forms three larger cavities, the Infundibula, and the union of the three infundibula constitutes the Pelvis, from which the ureter passes downwards to the urinary bladder. The Ureters are dilatable tubes, of about the size of a goose quill, and eighteen inches in length. They descend along the posterior wall of the abdomen, and cross, in their course, the psoas muscle, common iliac artery, and vas deferens, and terminate in the posterior and lateral part of the base of the bladder, after passing for some distance obliquely between its coats. At the concave border of the kidney, the vessels observe the following relation to each other from before back- wards, the veins are situated most superficially next the branches of the artery, and then the pelvis and ureter. The kidney is supplied with nerves by the renal plexus, which is derived from the solar plexus and from the lesser splanchnic nerve. The student must now examine the Muscles, which are situated on the posterior wall of the abdomen. These are the Diaphragm, Psoas magnus, Psoas parvus, Transversalis, Quadratus lumborum, Iliacus internus.DIAPHRAGM. 372 Diaphragm. — To obtain a good view of this import- ant inspiratory muscle, the peritoneum should be dissected from its under surface. It is the muscular septum be- tween the thorax and abdomen, and is composed of two portions, a greater and a lesser muscle. The greater muscle arises from the ensiform cartilage, from the inner surfaces of the six inferior ribs, indigitating with the transversalis, and from the ligamentum arcuatum exter- num, and internum. From these points which form the internal circumference of the trunk, the fibres converge and are inserted into the central tendon. The Ligamentum arcuatum externum is a fibrous band, extending from the last rib.to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, it arches across the origin of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and gives attachment to the posterior fibres of the greater muscle of the diaphragm above, and to the anterior lamella of the transversalis below. The Ligamentum arcuatum internum, or proprius, is a tendinous arch thrown across the psoas magnus muscle as it emerges from the chest. It is attached by one ex- tremity to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and by the other to the body of the second. The Tendinous centre of the diaphragm is shaped like a trefoil leaf; of which the central leaflet points to the ensiform cartilage, and is the largest; the lateral leaflets, right and left, occupy the corresponding portions of the muscle; the right being the larger and more rounded, and the left smaller and lengthened in its form. Between the sides of the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the adjoining ribs, is a small triangular space where the muscular fibres of the diaphragm are deficient. This space is closed only by peritoneum on the side of the abdomen, and by pleura within the chest. It is therefore a weak point, and a portion of the contents ol the abdomen might, by violent exertion, be forced through it, producing phrenic or diaphragmatic hernia. The Lesser muscle of the diaphragm takes its origin from the bodies of the lumbar vertebra? by two tendons. The right, larger and longer than the left, arises from the anterior surface of the bodies of the second, third, and fourth vertebne ; and the left from the side of the second373 OPENINGS IN THE DIAPHRAGM. and third. The tendons form two large fleshy bellies (crura), which ascend to be inserted into the central tendon. The inner fasciculi of the two crura cross each other in front of the aorta, and again diverge to surround the oesophagus, so as to present a figure of eight like ap- pearance. The anterior fasciculus of the decussation is formed by the right crus. The Openings in the diaphragm are three : one, quadri- lateral in the tendinous centre, at the union of the right and middle leaflets, for the passage of the inferior cava ; a muscular opening of an elliptic shape, formed by the two crura for the transmission of the oesophagus and pneumo-gastric nerves ; and a third, the aortic, which is formed by a tendinous arch thrown from the tendon of one crus to that of the other across the vertebral column, beneath which pass the aorta, the right vena azygos, and the thoracic duct. One of the great splanchnic nerves sometimes passes through the aortic opening, but more fre- quently they both pierce the crura. The lesser splanch- nic nerves pass between the muscular fibres, which pro- ceed from the ligamentum arcuatum internum at each side. The Psoas magnus muscle lies at each side of the vertebral column in the lumbar region. It arises from the intervertebral substance of the last dorsal and four upper lumbar vertebrae, and from a tendinous arch thrown across the constricted portion of the bodies of the same bones. These arches are intended to protect the lumbar arteries, and communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve. It is inserted with the iliacus muscle by a common tendon into the lesser trochanter of the femur. The psoas muscle is traversed by the branches of the lumbar plexus, and is pierced by the genito-crural nerve, which runs upon its anterior surface. The Psoas parvus arises from the tendinous arches and intervertebral substance of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and soon terminates in a long slender tendon which is inserted into the pectineal line of the pubis. The psoas and iliacus muscles are covered in by the iliac fascia, which may now be examined. It will be found attached to the inner margin of the crest of the ilium, and to the folded border of Poupart’s ligament; in374 POSTERIOR ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. both of which situations it is continuous with the trans- versalis fascia. It crosses the psoas muscle, and passes beneath the iliac vessels to be attached to the brim of the pelvis, where it is continuous with the pelvic fascia. Below it forms the posterior wall of the sheath of the femoral vessels : and above it is continued upon the psoas muscles, to be attached to the sides of the lumbar vertebrae and ligamentum arcuatum internum. The Iliacus internus muscle occupies the fossa on the inner surface of the ilium, from which it arises. It is crossed by the external cutaneous nerve ; and the crural nerve lies in the groove between it and the psoas magnus. It is inserted by a tendon common to it and the psoas magnus, into the trochanter minor. The psoas magnus should be removed, in order to bring into view the quadratus lumborum muscle. The Quadratus lumborum muscle is concealed from view by the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which is inserted into the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and ligamentum arcuatum externum. When this lamella is divided, the muscle will be seen arising from the last rib, and from the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrae. It is inserted into the posterior fourth of the crest of the ilium. If the muscle be cut across or removed, the middle lamella of the transversalis will be seen attached to the apices of the transverse processes ; the quadratus being enclosed between the two lamellae as in a sheath. Actions.—The diaphragm is an inspiratory muscle the contraction of its fibres increasing the cavity of the chest. It acts also as a muscle of expulsion, by pressing upon the abdominal viscera, as in the expulsion of the excretions of the foetus, &c. The spasmodic action of the muscle produces hiccup, sobbing, &c. The psoas and iliacus muscles, flex the trunk upon the lower extremities or the legs upon the pelvis, at the same time everting the foot. The quadratus lumborum is an expiratory muscle, and assists in fixing the chest. The psoas magnus, if not previously removed, must now be care- fully dissected from its origin for the purpose of bringing into view the lumbar plexus of nerves, which is situated behind it.37 5 LUMBAR PLEXUS. BRANCHES. The Lumbar plexus of nerves is formed by the anterior branches of the last dorsal and four upper lumbar nerves. The posterior branches passing backwards, to be distri- buted to the muscles and integument of the loins. The anterior branches increase in size from above downwards, and the posterior diminish in like proportion. The plexus is connected by communicating branches passing from one nerve to the other at their exit from the intervertebral foramina, besides which, each trunk receives one or two filaments from the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic. Hie Branches of the lumbar plexus are the Musculo-cutaneous, External cutaneous, Genito-crural, Crural, Obturator. The Musculo-cutaneous nerves {Jig- 2. 3.), two in number, proceed from the first lumbar nerve. They cross the quadratus lumborum muscle, and, piercing the transversalis, divide into two branches; a cutaneous branch, which pierces the muscle, and is distributed to the integument over the hip and buttock ; and a muscular branch, which winds along the crest of the ilium, and is distributed to the abdominal muscles, lying first between the transversalis and internal oblique, and then between the internal and the external oblique muscle. The supe- rior nerve, after piercing the fibres of the internal oblique muscle, passes through the external ring with the sper- matic cord, and is distributed to the scrotum; hence it is often called ilio-scrotal. The inferior nerve supplies the abdominal muscles. The External cutaneous nerve {Jig. 2. 4.) (inguino-cu- taneous) proceeds from the second lumbar nerve. It pierces tbe posterior fibres of the psoas muscle, and crossing the iliacus obliquely to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, passes into the thigh be- neath Poupart’s ligament, and distributes cutaneous branches to the integument of the groin and of the outer side of the thigh : see page 12. Fig. 2. page 25.LUMBAR PLEXUS. BRANCHES. 376 Fig. 6. page 53. The Genito-crural {Jig. 2. 5.) proceeds also from the second lumbar nerve. It traverses the psoas magnus from behind forwards, and runs down on its anterior surface to near Poupart’s ligament, where it divides into two branches; genital, which passes through the internal abdominal ring, and is distributed to the spermatic cord; and crural, which supplies the integument on the inner side of the thigh. The Crural nerve {Jig. 2. 6.) is formed by the union of branches from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves. It passes beneath the psoas magnus, and runs along its outer border to the thigh, where it is distributed: see page 25. The Obturator nerve {Jig. 2. 12.) is formed by the union of two branches, one from the third and the other from the fourth lumbar nerve. It runs along the inner border of the pelvis, resting upon the pelvic fascia to the obturator foramen, through which it emerges to supply the muscles on the inner side of the thigh. The last lumbar nerve, tbe lumbosacral {Jig. 6. l.) descends into the pelvis to join the four upper sacral nerves, and assists in forming the sacral plexus.CHAPTER IX. PELVIS AND ORGANS OF GENERATION. The student must now turn his attention to the study of the viscera of the pelvis; therefore, after examining their relative position from above, he should proceed to separate the os innominatum of the left side, so as to obtain a side view of these organs. For this purpose he must divide the pubis with the saw on the left side, a little external to the symphisis. Then let him cut through the psoas muscle and iliac vessels opposite the sacro-iliac symphisis, and divide the ligaments of that articulation. Next cut away with the scalpel the structures adhering to the inner surface of the pubis and ischium of the same side, force the os innominatum outwards and remove it altogether. We shall first consider the contents of the male, and then of the female pelvis. The Viscei'a of the male pelvis are the Bladder, Prostate gland, Yesiculae seminales, Rectum. A careful dissection of the side of the pelvis, when the os innominatum has been removed, will bring these organs distinctly into view. Bladder. — The Bladder is an oblong membranous viscus, situated behind the pubis and in front of the rectum. It is larger in its vertical axis than from side to side. It is divided into body, fundus, base, and neck. The body {fig. 45. l.) comprehends the middle zone of the organ ; the fundus, 2., its upper segment; the base, 6., the lower broad extremity, which rests upon the rectum ; and the neck the narrow constricted portion which is applied against the prostate gland. The bladder is retained in its proper situation by ligaments. I he walls of the pelvis, in addition to the bones by which they are formed, are lined internally by the peri- toneum ; the pelvic fascia, which is continued downwards from the iliac fascia, and is attached below to the sides of378 LIGAMENTS OF THE BLADDER. the bladder and rectum ; the levator ani muscles, the obturator fascia, and the internal obturator muscle. The Ligaments of the bladder are the true and false ; * Fig. 45. A side view of the male organs of generation, with a section of the perineum, showing the arrangement of the deep and su- perficial fascia. No. 1. The body of the bladder. 2. Its fundus. 3. The urachus, proceeding from the apex of the bladder, and covered by peritoneum. 4. The umbilical artery at the point where it becomes obliterated, and forms a fibrous cord which passes forwards by the side of the bladder, and then ascends to the umbilicus. 5. The ureter. 6. The base of the bladder. 7. The fold of peritoneum formed between the rectum and bladder. 8. The anterior ligaments of the bladder. 9. The testicle. 10. 10. The vas deferens. 11. The vesicula seminalis of the left side. 12. The prostate gland. 13. The symphisis pubis. 14. 14. The two layers of the deep perineal fascia, enclosing (15) the membranous portion of the urethra. The dark bands immediately above and below this portion of the urethra, are the cut edges of the compressor urethrae muscle. 16. One of Cowper’s glands. 17. The continuation of the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, with the superficial fascia, which proceeds forwards upon the bulb, and is then lost in the dartos of the scrotum (18). The space in which the num- ber (17) is situated, is that occupied by the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the perineum: the arrow marks the direction which urine would take when infiltrated into the perineum. 19. The corpus spongiosum penis. 20. The glans penis. 21. The bulb. 22. The corpus caver- nosum of the left side. 23. The ligamentum suspensorium penis.379 URACHUS. URETERS. £ t v the true ligaments are seven in number, two posterior, two anterior, two umbilical ligaments, and the urachus. The false ligaments are four in number, and are formed by the peritoneum. The two Posterior ligaments are formed by the reflec- tion of the pelvic fascia upon the sides of the base of the bladder. The Anterior ligaments (fig. 45. 8.) are also formed by the pelvic fascia, which passes from the inner surface of the pubis, on each side of the symphisis, to the front of the bladder. The Umbilical ligaments {fig. 45. 4.) are the fibrous cords which result from the obliteration of the umbilical arteries of the foetus ; they pass forwards on each side of the fundus of the bladder, and ascend beneath the peri- toneum to the umbilicus. The Urachus {fig. 45. 3.) is a fibrous cord formed by the obliteration of a tubular communication in the em- bryo ; it is very strong and is attached to the apex of the bladder, and thence ascends to the umbilicus. The umbilical ligaments and urachus guide the ascent of the bladder in retention of urine. The False ligaments are folds of the peritoneum. The two Posterior correspond with the passage of the ureters from the pelvis to the base of the bladder ; and the two lateral are formed by the vasa deferentia, as they pass inwards from the internal abdominal ring to the sides of the fundus of the bladder. The Ureters {fig. 45. 5.) terminate in the sides of the base of the bladder, and pass for some distance obliquely between its coats, before they open on the mucous mem- brane. Their openings into the bladder are constricted, and surrounded by the thick and dense submucous tissue of the trigone vesicale, which prevents their free dilatation in an over distended state of the bladder, or in the pas- sage of a calculus. The obliquity of their entrance is preserved by the two muscles of the ureters, which are attached to their openings of entrance behind, and con- verge as they advance forwards to be inserted into the fibrous tissue of the uvula. The ureters are crossed in their course on the sides of380 COATS OF THE BLADDER. the bladder by the vasa deferentia, which descend inter- nally to them to the necks of the vesicular seminales at the base of the prostate gland. The Coats of the bladder are three — a partial external coat, derived from the peritoneum, a muscular coat, and an internal lining membrane, or mucous coat. The peri- toneal coat covers the posterior surface and sides of the bladder, from about opposite the point of termination of the two ureters to its summit, whence it is guided to the anterior wall of the abdomen by the umbilical ligaments and urachus. The muscular coat consists of two layers of muscular fasciculi, which are disposed around the bladder in various directions, and cross each other in their course. Those of the external layer are longitudinal; they com- mence upon the upper surface of the prostate, where they are clustered together, and are firmly connected with the anterior ligaments of the bladder. Hence the lower fibres of these ligaments are sometimes called the tendons of the bladder. They then pass upwards upon the anterior surface of the organ, turn around its fundus, and return upon the posterior surface to the base of the prostate gland, where they are inserted into the fibrous tissue of the neck of the bladder. The lateral fibres pass off obliquely upon the sides of the organ, and some form loops of support to the ureters at their entrance between the coats of the bladder. The internal layer is best dis- sected by removing the mucous membrane from the inner surface of the bladder: it may also be demonstrated by dissecting off the longitudinal layer. The internal layer consists of muscular fibres, which are disposed in an oblique, spiral, and transverse direction, and cross each other frequently. They cease almost entirely at the neck of the bladder, and very few transverse fibres can be detected in this situation, so that the term f< sphincter vesicce” is very incorrect. This has been very clearly proved by the investigations of Mr. Guthrie.* The aggregate of the muscular fibres of the bladder is called detrusor urince. The mucous coat is thick and smooth, and in a con- * “ On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and of the Urethra.”381 TRIGONE VESICALE.— UVULA VESIC/E. traded state is thrown into a number of rugae. It lines the interior of the bladder, is continuous, by means of the ureters, with the mucous lining of the kidney and urini- ferous tubuli, and, through the urethra, with the prostatic cceca, seminiferous tubuli, and Cowper's glands. It is but loosely connected with the muscular coat, and is sometimes, as in violent exertion, or in the continued efforts arising from the irritation of stone, or old stricture, forced between its fibres, and made to form a protrusion externally to the bladder. This is encysted bladder, and several of these cysts* may exist in the same individual. Sometimes they contain calculi; and, when a stone has escaped into one of these sacs, it ceases to be a source of irritation to the patient. The Submucous tissue is moderately thick throughout the whole of the bladder ; but around the openings of the ureters, at the trigone vesicale, and around the neck of the bladder and urethra, it becomes still thicker, more dense, and “ elastic, and is continuous with the elastic membrane of the urethra.” Mr. Guthrie considers it as a “ superadded structure,” which, by becoming thickened in chronic disease of the bladder, gives rise to the form- ation of a “ bar or dam,” quite independent of any en- largement of the prostate gland, and forms a considerable, and even fatal obstruction to the passage of the urine. Upon the inner wall of the base of the bladder, is a tri- angular smooth surface called “ trigone vesicale,” which is the most sensitive part of the whole organ, so that when rough calculi become placed against it, they give rise to extreme pain. The apex of the angle is situated at the commencement of the urethra, and corresponds with the projection of mucous membrane called uvula vesicce ; the posterior angles are formed by the openings of the ureters. The sides are bounded by two elevated ridges of mucous membrane, produced by two muscular bands, which pass from the extremities of the ureters to the commencement of the urethra; these are the muscles of the ureters ; they consist partly of muscular and partly of elastic tissue. * Our respected teacher, Mr. Abernethy, used to show a beautiful specimen of this disease in his lectures; it is still preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital : there are several fine speci- mens ol it in the Museum of the College of Surgeons.382 URETHRA—PROSTATIC AND MEMBRANOUS. The three sides of the trigone are about an inch and a quarter in length. The external surface of the trigone vesicale is also tri- angular, and is closely adherent to the rectum. It is bounded behind by the fold of peritoneum {fig. 45. 7.), that passes from the rectum to the bladder ; on each side by the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales, and the apex, by the third lobe of the prostate gland. It is through this triangle that the opening is made in the recto-vesical operation for puncture of the bladder. The operator must therefore be careful in selecting the centre of the space: if he push the trochar too near the prostate, he may wound that gland and not enter the bladder; if to either side, the vasa deferentia or vesiculae seminales may be transfixed; and if too far posteriorly he may wound* the peritoneum, and anticipate all the dangers of peritoneal inflammation. The adhesion between the bladder and rectum might also be separated by an inexpert operator. The Urethra is the excretory canal of the bladder, it commences at the neck of that organ, and terminates at the meatus upon the glans penis. It is about nine inches long, and is divided into three portions ; the prostatic, membranous, and spongy. The Prostatic urethra is the most dilated part of the canal, and is a little more than an inch in length. It is situated in the prostate gland, one third nearer to the upper than to the lower surface of that body. Upon its inferior wall or floor is a lengthened fold of mucous membrane, called caputgallinaginis, (cocks-comb) or veru montanum. At the commencement of this fold is a pouch of the mucous membrane, the sinus pocularis, and into this pouch open the two ejaculatory ducts from the vesi- culae seminales. On either side of the veru montanum are a number of openings, the terminations of the pro- static ducts. The Membranous portion of the urethra {fig. 45. 15.) is the narrowest part of the canal, is a little less than an inch in length, and is situated within the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. Its coverings are, the mucous lining; an elastic fibrous coat ; a muscular covering from the compressor urethrae muscle; and a fibrous investment from the deep perineal fascia. Immediately that itCOWPER’s GLANDS. LACUNA. — PROSTATE GLAND. 38S escapes from the deep perineal fascia, it is received into the upper part of the bulb of the urethra, and becomes the spongy portion. The Spongy portion of the urethra is named from being inclosed by the corpus spongiosum penis. The com- mencement of the corpus spongiosum forms the bulb, hence the included urethra is called the bulbous portion. Next to the prostatic portion, the bulbous is the most dilated part of the canal. In the body of the corpus spongiosum, the canal diminishes in size, but, within the glans penis, it forms a third dilatation called fossa navi- cularis, and, at the meatus contracts so much as to be smaller than at any other part of the tube. The bulbous portion has, opening into it, the two small excretory ducts of Cowper’s glands. These small bodies (fig. ^5. 16. fig. 48. ll.), about the size of peas, are situ- ated immediately beneath the membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and are covered by the inferior fasciculus of the compressor urethrae muscle. They are composed of mucous follicles and their ducts, about three quarters of an inch in length, pass forwards to open into the bulbous urethra. (In the mucous membrane are a number of mucous follicles or lacunae. These are most numerous upon the upper wall of the canal, and have their openings directed forwards so as to catch the point of a catheter in its passage into the bladder, and give rise to a temporary impediment. In a case of this kind the instrument should be withdrawn a little, and then pushed gently on, with a slight depression of the point. One of these lacunae, larger than the rest, is called lacuna magna ; it is situated at about an inch and a half i from the meatus. It is said to be the seat of the secretion of the drop of matter which is squeezed from the urethra i in old gonorrhoea. Prostate gland. — The Prostate gland (fig. 45. 12.) 1 surrounds the upper surface of the neck of the bladder, | and is situated within the pelvis. It has the shape and & • size of a Spanish chesnut ; the base being directed ) i backwards towards the bladder, the apex forwards to the i deep perineal fascia ; the flat side upwards, and theVESICULiE SEMINALES. 384 convex side downwards. The latter lies in contact with the rectum, and may be distinctly felt through its coats. It is retained in its place by the two tendons of the bladder, which are continuous with the anterior ligaments of the bladder, by the attachments of the pelvic fascia below, and by a process of the internal layer of the deep fascia, which forms a sheath around the membranous urethra, and is inserted into the prostate. It consists of three lobes, two lateral and a middle lobe ; the latter is a small transverse process connected with the base of the gland. It supports the elastic tissue which forms the projection of mucous membrane at the com- mencement of the urethra, called uvula vesicae, and when enlarged presses the uvula inwards towards the interior of the bladder, and produces a great impediment to the flow of urine. The Ducts of the prostate, from twenty to twenty-five in number, open into the prostatic urethra on each side of the veru montanum. The urethra, in passing through the prostate, lies nearer to its upper than its lower surface. VesiculjE seminales At the base of the prostate gland are the vesicuhe seminales {jig. 45. ll.) each formed by the convolutions of a single dilated tube, and enclosed in a dense fibrous membrane. Their larger extremities are directed backwards, and are separated from each other by a considerable interval; the smaller converge to a point anteriorly, and almost meet at the base of the prostate gland. They form in this manner the lateral boundaries of a triangular space, which corresponds with the triangle on the inner surface of the bladder, called trigone vesicale. Vasa defejrentia.— The Vas deferens (fig- 45. 10.) from each testicle enters the abdomen at the internal ab- dominal ring, and passes inwards to the side of the fundus of the bladder; it then descends along its posterior surface, and crosses the direction of the ureter to the base of the prostate gland. When it reaches the vesicula seminalis it becomes connected by cellular tissue to its inner border, and terminates by a small duct, which unites with a similar duct from the vesicula seminalis, to form the ductus ejacidatorms. The ejaculatory duct is about three385 PELVIC FASCIA. quarters of an inch in length, and passes forwards between the prostate gland and the lining membrane of the urethra, to terminate near its fellow of the opposite side in the sinus pocularis. If the bladder and rectum be separated from their lateral connec- tions and turned down, the attachments of the pelvic fascia and the levator ani muscle may next be seen and examined. The Pelvic fascia is continuous with the iliac fascia along the border of the pelvis, and is prolonged down- wards, so as to line the interior of its cavity. At its lower part it is reflected from the sides of the pelvis upon the rectum, the base of the bladder, and prostate gland, forming the lateral true ligaments of the bladder. In front it forms its anterior true ligaments. If this fascia be carefully raised, a thin layer of muscular fibres will be seen beneath it, which should now be dissected. The Levator ani is a thin plane of muscular fibres, situated on each side of the pelvis. It arises from the inner surface of the pubis, from the spine of the ischium, and between those points from the angle of union between the obturator and the pelvic fascia. Its fibres descend to be inserted into a raphe in front of the coccyx, into the lower part of the rectum, base of the bladder, and pros- tate gland. Wilson’s and Guthrie’s muscles (the compressor ure- thrae) are situated between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and are described with the perineum. Actions. — The use of the levator ani is expressed in | its name. It is the antagonist to the diaphragm and the : rest of the expulsory muscles, and serves to support the ! ' rectum and vagina during their expulsive efforts. In the [operation for lithotomy on children and emaciated per- sons, its action is often very remarkable, contracting spasmodically, and producing a fluttering which is very annoying to the operator. If the levator ani muscle be separated from its origin, ind turned downwards, the obturator fascia w ill be seen aeneath, and the mode of origin of the middle fibres of he muscle may be examined. The obturator fascia i finds down the internal obturator muscle, and covers in he internal pudic vessels and nerve. s 1386 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The Arteries and Nerves of the pelvis should now be dissected. This is easily done by taking the trunk of the internal iliac as a guide to its branches. The Nerves forming the sacral plexus may be traced from the anterior sacral foramina. The Internal iliac artery, as soon as it enters the pelvis, divides into two trunks, an anterior and posterior; the anterior division has connected with it the remains of the umbilical artery, and then divides into the ischiatic and internal pudic arteries ; the posterior division gives off the smaller pelvic branches, and passing out of the pelvis becomes the gluteal artery. The branches may be thus arranged. Anterior Trunk. Umbilical, Ischiatic, Internal pudic. Posterior Trunk. Ilio-lumbar, Obturator, Loteral sacral, Gluteal. The Umbilical is the commencement of the fibrous cord, which passes forwards by the side of the fundus of the bladder, and then ascends converging to the urachus, and its fellow of the opposite side, as far as the um- bilicus. It is pervious for a short distance only, and gives off several small branches, called superior vesical, which are distributed to the fundus and side of the bladder, and extend as far as the prostate gland. The Ischiatic artery descends to the lower border of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and escapes from the pelvis below the pyriformis muscle. It gives off a few small branches within the pelvis to the rectum, fundus of the bladder, and vesiculse seminales : see page 36. The Internal pudic artery also passes through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, below the pyriformis muscle, but nearer to the sacrum than the ischiatic. It crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen ; it then crosses the tube- rosity of the ischium at about an inch from its lower border, resting upon the obturator muscle, and bound down by the obturator fascia. It next ascends along the edge of the ramus of the ischium and pubis, between the387 SACRAL PLEXUS. BRANCHES. s 2 two layers of the deep perineal fascia, giving off branches to the perineum and penis, and terminates in the dorsalis penis artery. Its branches within the pelvis are the middle hemorrhoidal. In the female it is distributed in the same manner to the perineum and external organs of generation. The Ilio-lumbar artery ascends beneath the psoas mus- cle to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, along which it takes its course, supplying the adjoining muscles. It inosculates with the lumbar arteries and with the cir- cumflexa ilii. The Obturator artery passes forwards a little below the brim of the pelvis, to the upper border of the obturator foramen. It enters the thigh through an opening in the obturator ligament, and is distributed to the muscles of the upper and inner part of the thigh, and to the hip joint: see page 24. The Lateral sacral is a small artery which runs by the side of the anterior sacral foramina, and sends branches into them for the supply of the sacral nerves. It anas- tomoses with the sacra-media. The Gluteal artery passes directly outwards through the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, above the pyriformis muscle, and is distributed to the gluteal muscles : see page 35. Sacral plexus of nerves The Sacral plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the last lumbar and four upper sacral nerves, and receives filaments from the sympathetic ganglia. The last lumbar nerve is called lum- bosacral; it gives origin to the gluteal nei've. The Branches of the sacral plexus are, the visceral, which are distributed to the viscera of the pelvis, viz., the bladder, prostate gland, uterus, rectum, &c., and commu- nicate very freely with the termination of the hypogastric plexus ; and the external, which are three in number. Internal pudic, Lesser ischiatic, Greater ischiatic. The Gluteal nerve passes out of the pelvis with the jluteal artery, through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen,388 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. above the pyriformis muscle, and is distributed with the branches of that artery. The Internal pudic nerve passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, below the pyriformis muscle, and follows the course and distribution of the internal pudic artery. The Lesser ischiatic nerve passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, in company with the great ischiatic nerve, and is distributed to the muscles of the ischiatic region, and to the integument on the posterior aspect of the thigh : see page 37. The Great ischiatic nerve is formed by the union of all the nerves which form the sacral plexus. It is a thick nervous band of considerable breadth. It leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, below the lower border of the pyriformis muscle, and is distri- buted to the lower extremity : see page 38. The two last sacral, or rather, the Coccygeal nerves, are distributed to the lower extremity of the rectum and perineum, and communicate with branches of the hypo- gastric plexus. The Sympathetic nerve within the pelvis is composed of four or five small ganglia on each side, which terminate on the coccyx in a single ganglion, called ganglion impar. The sacral ganglia give filaments to each of the sacral nerves and visceral filaments, which are distributed to the viscera of the pelvis, and communicate with the filaments of the hypogastric plexus. External Organs of Generation in the Male. Penis. — The Penis is composed of three lengthened bodies, closely united to each other, the two corpora ca- vernosa, and the corpus spongiosum. The Corpora cavernosa {fig. 45. 22.) are firmly attached at their commencement to the ramus of the ischium and pubis, where they form the crura penis; they then pass forwards, and meeting in the middle line, become inti- mately united, and constitute the chief bulk of the body of the penis. They consist of cellular structure enclosed in a very dense fibrous investment, and are separated byCORPUS SPONGIOSUM. 389 s 3 an incomplete partition, which is named septum pectini- forme. They terminate anteriorly in a rounded extremity, which is received into a depression on the posterior part of the glans penis. The Corpus spongiosum (_fig. 45. 19.) is situated in the groove upon the under surface of the two corpora caver- nosa. It commences, posteriorly, by a considerable en- largement, which is called the bulb, 21., and terminates, anteriorly, in a rounded extremity, named the glans penis, 20. The bulb is attached to the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, by a process which is sent for- wards to enclose the membranous portion of the urethra. The corpus spongiosum is connected to the corpora cavernosa by means of cellular tissue, and the glans is applied against their extremity and attached to it by the same medium. The urethra enters the bulb as soon as it escapes from the deep perineal fascia, and runs forwards through the corpus spongiosum to the meatus. The corpus spongiosum is named from its spongy cellular structure, which resembles that of the interior of the corpus cavernosum. It is enclosed in a thin layer of fibrous membrane. The Glans penis (fig. 45. 20.) is covered by a very thin cuticle, and is surrounded by an elevated ridge, called corona glandis. A number of sebaceous glands, the glandulce odoriferce, or Tyson’s glands, are situated around the corona. The glans is protected by a duplicature of integument, called the prepuce, which is retained in con- nection with the under surface of the glans, by a thin fold called the frcenum preputii. There is a deep fossa around the corona glandis, between it and the attachment of the prepuce, in which syphilitic sores occasionally occur; when this is the case, they are extremely trouble- some, and often burrow beneath the corona to a consider- able depth. The integument of the penis is remarkable for its loose- ness, and for the absence of adipose substance in its cellular tissue. I he penis is supported by a ligament, Ligamentum suspensorium (Jig. 45. 23.), which descends from the sym- phisis pubis, to be inserted by two portions into the cor- pora cavernosa.390 SCROTUM. TESTICLES. Vessels and nerves The Arteries of the penis are derived from the internal pudic; they are the arteries of the bulb, of the corpora cavernosa, and of the dorsum of the penis. The Veins return the blood by the sides of the arteries to a plexus situated around the neck of the bladder. The dorsal vein is of very large size, and runs from before backwards in the groove on the dorsum of the penis. It passes between the two portions of the sus- pensory ligament, and beneath the pubic symphisis, to open into the vesical plexus. The Lymphatics pass outwards to the inguinal glands. The Nerves are branches of the internal pudic nerve and hypogastric plexus, and accompany each branch of the arteries. Scrotum. — The Scrotum (purse, leather bag) is the tegumentary fold which contains the testicles. It con- sists of two layers, the integument and dartos. The Integument is extremely thin, and in very large quantity. It is covered with hairs issuing obliquely from the skin, and having prominent roots. Along the middle line it is marked by a raphe. The Dartos is a contractile fibrous layer, situated im- mediately beneath the integument, and forming a distinct covering. It also divides the cavity of the scrotum into two equal chambers by a septum (septum scroti) of the same structure. The Structure of the dartos is intermediate between muscle and elastic fibrous tissue, and is called by some authors “ dartoid tissue.” Testicle. — The Testicles are lodged within the two cavities formed by the dartos, and are surrounded by an extremely loose and abundant cellular tissue, which con- tains no adipose substance. The Coverings of the spermatic cord and testicle, are the Spermatic fascia, Cremasteric, Fascia propria. The Spermatic fascia is the intercolumnar fascia de- rived from the external abdominal ring, which is carried downwards with the testicle in its descent in the foetus.391 TUNICA VAGINALIS. — ALBUGINEA. S 4 The Cremasteric covering (erythroid) is formed by the expansion of the fibres of the cremaster muscle, which are also carried down in the descent of the testicle. The Fascia propria consists of the transversalis fascia, carried down by the testicle in its descent. The Proper coverings of the testicle are, the tunica va- ginalis, and tunica albuginea. The Tunica vaginalis is a pouch of serous mem- brane derived from the peritoneum in the descent of the testicle, and afterwards obliterated from the abdomen to within a short distance of the testicle. Like other serous coverings, it is a shut sac investing the organ, and thence reflected so as to form a bag around its circumference ; hence it is divided into the tunica vaginalis propria, and tunica vaginalis rejlexa. The Tunica albuginea is a thick fibrous membrane of a white colour, and is the proper tunic of the testicle. From the union of a serous membrane with a fibrous tunic, the tunica vaginalis is considered as a fibro-serous mem- brane, and is ranged with the dura mater and pericar- dium. If the tunica vaginalis reflexa be laid open, it will I be found to contain, in its interior, the testicle and a flattened body lying to its outer side, the epididymis. The Testicle * is an ovoid gland slightly flattened at its sides. If it be divided by a transverse section, it will be observed that the tunica albuginea {Jig. 46. l.), after in- vesting it completely, is reflected inwards along its pos- terior border, so as to form a projecting ridge in its in- terior, called mediastinum testis, 2., (corpus Highmoria- u! num.f) From the mediastinum, a number offibrous cords, 3. \ pass off and radiate in all directions towards the inner * For the anatomy of the testicle, we would advise the student to consult Sir Astley Cooper's beautiful monograph, entitled, “ Ob- servations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis.” A sight of the preparations and injections of this organ and of the thymus gland is one of the greatest anatomical treats that this town is capable of af- fording. t Nathaniel Highmore, a physician of Oxford, in his “ Corporis Humani Disquisitio Anatomica,” published in 1651 : he considers the corpus Ilighmorianum as a duct formed by the convergence of the ibrous cords, which he mistakes for smaller ducts.392 STRUCTURE OF THE TESTICLE. surface of the tunic to which they are firmly attached. For a knowledge of the use of this arrangement, as of many other very important structures in the body, ana- tomists are indebted to Sir Astley Cooper, who has shown that this simple disposition is beautifully adapted to the purpose of preventing the compression of the substance of the testicle : and, truly, we know of no structure in the animal economy that evinces more striking evidence of design than does this. In the section of the mediastinum testis, two groups of minute foramina will be observed, one near the external surface of the mediastinum, consisting of divided arteries and veins ; the other near to its inner edge, — of the di- vided tubes of the rete testis. Upon the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, is the tunica vasculosa testis {Jig. 46. 4.), the nutrient membrane of the testicle. It sends vascular processes inwards be- tween the lobules. Sir Astley Cooper has compared the tunica albuginea to the dura mater, and the tunica vas- culosa to the pia mater of the brain. The Substance of the testis is composed of minute tubes, (tubuli seminiferi) very much convoluted and arranged in lobules {Jig- 46. 5.), {lobuli testis). The apices of the lobules are directed towards the mediastinum, and ter- minate in small, straight ducts called vasa recta, 6. The vasa recta form a net-work of minute tubes, running from below upwards within the substance of the mediastinum, which is called the rete testis, 7. The ducts forming the rete, quit the testis at its upper and posterior part under the name of vasa ejferentia, 9.9., which are eight or ten in number, and the vasa efferentia become convoluted into cones, called coni vasculosi, 10. The convolutions of the vasa efferentia, external to the testicle, constitute the epididymis. The upper end of the epididymis is of large size, from the great assemblage of convoluted tubes in the coni vasculosi; hence it is named globus major, 10. The middle portion or body of the epididymis, 11., is formed by the convolutions of a single tube, and the lower portion, or globus minor, 12., consists of the convolutions of the vas deferens, previously to commencing its ascending course. The convolutions of these tubes in the epididymis393 EPIDIDYMIS. s 5 * Fig. 46. The anatomy of the testicle. No. I. The tunica albuginea. 2. The mediastinum testis, or cor- pus Highmorianum. 3. A fibrous cord passing between two of the lobules from the mediastinum to the inner surface of the tunica albu- ginea. Similar cords are observed between the other lobules. 4. The tunica vasculosa or pia mater testis. 5. Two of the lobules of which the substance of the testicle is composed. They are seen to consist of the convolutions of minute tubes, tubuli seminiferi. 6. The small straight tubes by which the tubuli seminiferi terminate, vasa recta. 7. The rete testis, an aggregation of tubuli situated in the anterior half of the mediastinum. The posterior half (8.) is occupied by the arteries and veins. 9. 9. The vasa eflerentia. 10. The coni- cal convolutions of tubuli called coni vasculosi. This portion of the organ being of large size, and situated externally to the testicle, is the globus major of the epididymis. 11. The body of the epididy- mis. 12. The globus minor of the epididymis. 13. The vas de- ferens, ascending to the external abdominal ring. The arrows mark the course of the secretion along the tubes.394< SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. are secured by a fibrous membrane, which is covered by the tunica vaginalis. The Vas deferens (jig. 46. 13.,fig. 4-5. 10.) commences, therefore, in the globus minor epididymis at the lower part of the testicle, and ascends along the posterior part of the spermatic cord to the external abdominal ring. It then passes along the spermatic canal, and through the internal abdominal ring, to the side of the fundus of the bladder. It next descends along the posterior wall of the bladder, crossing the direction of the ureter, and ter- minates at the base of the prostate gland by uniting with the duct of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The Spermatic cord consists of the vessels and nerves passing to and from the testicle, enclosed in several tunics or fasciae. The left cord is a little longer than the right: hence the left testicle is the lower of the two. The cord is placed behind the testicle, so that the con- vexity of the testis looks forwards and a little outwards. Vessels and nerves. — The arteries of the cord are the spermatic, from the aorta ; cremasteric, from the epi- gastric ; and deferential, from the vesical artery. The Veins are numerous, and have valves at very short dis- tances. They are sometimes called vasa pampiniformia, from the peculiar tendril-like arrangement of the smaller vessels. The Lymphatics are beautifully shown in the injections made by Sir A. Cooper: they terminate in the lumbar glands. The Nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus, and from the genito-crural and ilio-scrotal branches of the lumbar plexus. The Coverings of the cord are the fascia spermaiica, cremaster, and fascia propria. Surgery of the Testicle and Spermatic Cord. When the tunica vaginalis remains unclosed, the intes- tine being forced into it, lies in contact with the testicle: this is Congenital hernia (fig. 41. page 334.). Hydrocele, in infants and young children, often commu- nicates with the cavity of the abdomen from the same deficiency of closure.395 s 6 VISCERA OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. When the tunica vaginalis is closed at the upper point only, and the hernial sac descends behind it, we have a case of Encysted hernia (Jig. 42. page 335.). If the hernial sac were to descend into the tunica vaginalis, instead of behind it, the serous membrane rising all around it, that also would be a form of encysted hernia. When the tunica vaginalis is closed from point to point only, fluid may collect in the unobliterated portions, and form one or more sacs. This is the Hydrocele of the cord. If the fluid collect in the tunica vaginalis itself, the case is common Hydrocele. If blood in place of serous fluid occupy the tunica vaginalis, the case is one of Hema- tocele. If the veins of the cord be enlarged and tortuous, or varicose, the case is one of Varicocele, or spermatocele. Swelled testicle is often called Hernia humoralis ; and inguinal hernia, descending into the scrotum, forms Scrotal hernia. Female Pelvis and Organs of Generation. The contents of the female pelvis are the bladder, vagina, uterus, with its appendages, and rectum. The Bladder is in relation with the pubis in front, and with the vagina beneath. Its form corresponds with that of the pelvis, being broad from side to side, and often bulging more on one side than on the other. This is particularly evident after frequent parturition. The Coats of the bladder are the same as those of the male. The Muscular coat has its two layers, the external and the internal; the longitudinal fibres of the former are attached to a ring of thickened submucous tissue, which surrounds the commencement of the urethra, and is con- nected, like the prostate gland in the male, to the inner surface of the os pubis by means of the tendons of the bladder. I his enlargement, Mr. Guthrie conceives, to be analogous to the prostate in the male ; and he de- scribes it as the prostate gland of the female. An opposite opinion, viz. that there is no prostate gland in the female, is entertained by the greater number of anatomists.396 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The Urethra is extremely short, not more than an inch and a half in length. It is enclosed in the upper wall of the vagina, and terminates at its anterior extremity. The Female organs of generation are divided into ex- ternal and internal. The External organs are the mons Veneris, labia majora, labia minora or nymphos, clitoris, meatus urina- rius, and the entrance to the vagina. The Internal organs are the vagina, uterus, ovaries, Fallopian tubes, and ligaments. External Organs of Generation. The Mons Veneris is an eminence of integument, situ- ated upon the pubis. Its cellular tissue is loaded with adipose substance, and the surface covered with hairs. The Labia majora are two large longitudinal folds of integument, consisting of fat and loose cellular tissue. They enclose an elliptic opening called the vulva, and are united posteriorly by a thin commissure called the fourchette, which is always ruptured in parturition. Im- mediately within this commissure is a small cavity, the fossa navicularis. The breadth of the perineum is measured from the fourchette to the margin of the anus, and is usually not more than an inch across. The external surface of the labia is covered with hairs ; the inner surface is smooth, and lined by mucous mem- brane, which contains a number of sebaceous follicles, and is covered by a thin epithelium. The use of the labia majora is to favour the extension of the vulva during parturition ; for, in the passage of the head of the child, the labia are completely unfolded and effaced. The Labia minora, or nymphos, are two smaller folds situated within the labia majora. Superiorly they are divided into two processes, which surround the glans clitoridis and form its prepuce, preputium clitoridis. Infe- riorly, they diminish gradually in size, and are lost on the sides of the opening of the vagina. The nymphae consist of mucous membrane, covered in by a thin epithelium. They are provided with a number of sebaceous follicles, and contain, in their interior, a thin layer of erectile tissue.397 INTERNAL ORGANS. The Clitoris is a small elongated organ, situated in front of the pubis, and supported by a suspensory ligament. It is formed by the union of two small bodies, which are analogous to the corpora cavernosa of the penis, and, like them, arise from the ramus of the pubis and ischium on each side, by two crura. The extremity of the clitoris is called its glans. It is composed of erectile tissue, en- closed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, and is sus- ceptible of erection. Like the penis, it is provided with two small muscles, the erectores clitoridis, which arise from the ramus of the ischium, and are inserted into the crura. At about an inch beneath the clitoris is the entrance of the vagina, an elliptic opening, marked by a projecting margin. The entrance to the vagina is closed in the vir- gin by a membrane called the Hymen, which is stretched across the opening. Sometimes the membrane forms a complete septum, and gives rise to great inconvenience by preventing the escape of the menstrual effusion. It is then called an imperforate hymen. The hymen is not by any means a necessary accompaniment to virginity, for it does not constantly exist. When present it assumes a variety of appearances : it may be a membranous fringe, with a round opening in the centre, or it is a semilunar fold, leaving an opening in front; or a transverse septum, having an opening both in front and behind. The rupture of the hymen or its rudimentary existence, gives rise to the appearance of granulations around the opening of the vagina: these are called caruncidce myr- tiformes. The triangular smooth surface between the clitoris and the entrance of the vagina, which is bounded on each side by the upper portions of the nymphae, is the Vestibule. At the upper angle of the vagina is an elevation formed by the projection of the upper wall of the canal: and im- mediately in front of this tubercle, and surrounded by it, is the opening of the urethra, the Meatus urinarius. Internal Organs of Generation. Vagina. — The Vagina is a membranous canal, lead- ing from the vulva to the uterus, and corresponding in direction with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. At theVAGINA. — UTERUS. 398 commencement it is constricted, but near the uterus be- comes considerably dilated. Its length is very variable; but it is always longer upon the posterior than upon the anterior wall. The former is usually about five or six inches in length, and the latter four or five. It is inserted into the cervix of the uterus, which projects into the upper extremity of the canal. In Structure the vagina is composed of a mucous lining, a layer of erectile tissue, and an external tunic of a fibrous structure, resembling the dartos of the scrotum. The upper half of the posterior wall of the vagina is covered, on its pelvic surface, by the peritoneum ; and, in front, the peritoneum is reflected from its upper part to the posterior surface of the bladder. The Mucous membrane presents a number of transverse papillce or rugce upon its upper and lower surfaces, which extend outwards on each side from a middle raphe. The transverse papillae and raphe are more apparent upon the upper than upon the lower surface, and the two raphe are called the columns of the vagina. The mucous membrane is covered by a thick epithelium, which is continued from the labia, and terminates by a fringed border at the inner margin of the os uteri. The External, or dartoid layer of the vagina, serves to connect it to the surrounding viscera. Thus, it is very closely adherent to the under surface of the bladder, and drags that organ down with it in prolapsus uteri. To the rectum it is more loosely connected, which is therefore less frequently affected in prolapsus. Uterus. — The Uterus (fig. 47- 4.) is a flattened organ of a pyriform shape, having the base directed up- wards. Its direction corresponds with the axis of the inlet of the pelvis: it therefore forms a considerable angle with the direction of the vagina. It is about three inches in length, two in breadth across its broadest part, and one in thickness. It is divided into fundus, body, cervix, and os uteri. The Fundus (fig. 47. 5.) and Body, 4. are enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which is connected with the two sides of the pelvis, and forms a transverse septum between the bladder and rectum. The folds on either399 UTERUS. STRUCTURE. side of the uterus are the broad ligaments, 6. They con- tain several important parts. The Cei'vix, 3., gives attachment to the vagina, and the os uteri, 2., projects into the upper part of the vagina, and presents a transverse opening. Within and around the os uteri are occasionally found some small vesicles, which are called the ovula of Naboth. These are dilated mucous follicles, having the openings closed by adhesion. The posterior lip of the os uteri is thicker and more projecting than the anterior. The Cavity of the uterus is triangular in its form, the upper angles corresponding with the commencement of the Fallopian tubes. In the cervix of the organ is an arborescent arrangement of folds, which is called arbor vita; uterina. Structure. — The uterus has three coats — an in- ternal, or mucous, a fibrous, or muscular, and a peritoneal coat. In the unimpregnated state the fibrous structure is dense and pale, and very indistinct; but in the impreg- * Fig. 47. The female internal organs of generation. No. 1. The upper part of the vagina. 2. The os uteri, projecting into the vagina ; the posterior lip is seen to be longer and larger than the anterior. 3. The cervix uteri. 4. The body of the uterus. 5. Its fundus. 6. The broad ligament of the left side, having enclosed between its layers (7.) the Fallopian tube, and (8.) the round liga- ment. On the right side the broad ligament is removed, so as to bring more clearly into view the structures which it contains. 9. The Fallopian tube. 10. Its fimbriated extremity. 11. One of its fimbriae attached to the ovary. 12. The ovary attached by its ligament to the upper angle of the uterus. 13. The round ligament.OVARIES. 400 FALLOPIAN TUBES. nated uterus it is decidedly muscular, and may be clearly demonstrated. The fibres are then observed to be dis- posed in three layers — an external, consisting of longitu- dinal fibres, a middle, of oblique fibres, some of which pass off upon the Fallopian tubes, and others upon the round ligaments ; and a third layer consists of concentric circles of fibres, having their centre at the commencement of the Fallopian tubes. In the cervix uteri the fibres are cir- cular. Vessels and Nerves.— The Arteries of the uterus are the uterine from the internal iliac, and the spermatic from the aorta. The Veins are very large and remark- able ; in the impregnated uterus they are called sinuses, and consist of canals channelled through the substance of the organ, and are merely lined by the internal membrane of the veins. The Nerves are derived from the hypogastric and spermatic plexuses, and from the sacral plexus. The Appendages of the uterus are enclosed by the lateral duplicatures of peritoneum, called the broad liga- ments. They are the Fallopian tubes and ovaries. The Fallopian * tubes (fig. 47. 7.) are two tubular prolongations which pass off on each side from the upper angles of the uterus. At their commencement (ostium uterinum') they are small, but they gradually increase as they pass outwards, and terminate by expanded fimbriated extremities, 10. (ostium abdominale). One of these fringes, 11., longer than the rest, is attached to the ovary, and serves to guide the tube in its seizure of that organ. The tube is lined by mucous membrane, which is con- tinuous with that of the uterus, and at the fimbriated extremity is in connection with the peritoneum. This is the only instance in the human being of a natural opening existing in a serous membrane. The Ovaries (fig. 47. 12.) are two oblong flattened bodies of a yellowish colour, situated in the posterior folds of the broad ligaments. They are connected to the * Gabriel Fallopius, a nobleman of Modena, was one of the founders of modern anatomy. He was professor at Ferrara, then at Pisa, and afterwards succeeded Vesalius at Padua. His principal observations are collected in a work entitled, “ Observationes Ana- tomicae,” which he published in 1561.CORPUS LUTEUM. ROUND LIGAMENTS. 401 upper angles of the uterus at each side by a rounded cord, the ligament of the ovary. The Structure of the ovary is a spongy vascular tissue, containing serous vesicles ( Graafian), and enclosed in a dense, fibrous tissue, covered by peritoneum. These vesicles are simple cysts containing a limpid fluid, of various size,, and from ten to fifteen in number in each ovary. They are the ova in which the future embryo is developed. Bauer states, that the vesicles which are nearest the surface have a minute floating body in their interior, which is the rudiment of the germ. After conception, a yellow spot is often found in one or both ovaries, and has been named the corpus luteum. It is formed of yellow, condensed substance, deposited in the place of the ovum, which has escaped. This was formerly considered a certain evidence of conception having taken place ; but nothing can be more fallacious. It does not always exist in women who have borne children, and it has been found in virgins, and even in a child five years of age. Vessels and Nerves.— The Arteries of the ovaries are the spermatic. Its Nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus. The uterus is held in its place by two round ligaments, which are connected with the angles of the uterus, and pass forwards beneath the peritoneum to the internal abdominal ring: they then follow the course of the spermatic canal on each side to the labia majora. While in the spermatic canal, they have the same relations as the spermatic cord, which they represent in the female. They are accompanied by a small artery, and several filaments of the spermatic plexus of nerves.402 CHAPTER X. ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. The Perineum is the inferior part of the trunk of the body in which are situated the two great excretory outlets, the urethra and the termination of the alimentary canal. These are parts of delicate and complicated structure, and largely supplied with vessels and nerves. They are also peculiarly liable, from the nature of their functions, to causes of irritation and disease. Indeed, disease is more frequent and various in this region, than in any other of the body. Nearly the whole of the affections admit of relief or cure from operative procedure. Hence the peri- neum is the most important surgical region of the entire system, and incisions are made through it to great depth and in various directions. A good knowledge of its com- ponent structures and relations is therefore highly ne- cessary to the Surgeon, for a misdirected incision, by wounding important parts, would involve the most serious consequences, and probably prove fatal to the patient. The anatomical composition of the perineum is the same as that of any other part of the body, consisting of integument, superficial fascia, deep fascia, muscles, vessels, and nerves. But to suit the peculiar functions of this region, they are somewhat differently distributed and ar- ranged. To obtain a clear and precise idea of the nature of the perineum, the student must take in his hand a pelvis in which the sacro-ischiatic ligaments have been left in their proper positions. Let him now turn to the outlet of the pelvis, and he will be enabled to trace the boundaries of the perineum. In front he will have the arch of the pubis, cm each side the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium and great sacro-ischiatic ligaments and behind the coccyx. If he draw a line transversely across this outlet from the anterior extremity of one tuberosity of the ischium to the same point on the other, he will divide the open- ing into two parts of nearly equal size. The anterior4'03 GENERAL IDEA. PERINEUM. S space belongs to the organs of generation, the posterior to the termination of the alimentary canal. Let us first examine the anterior or genital space. A strong, fibrous membrane is stretched across this an- terior space from the ramus of the pubis and ischium on one side to the same parts on the opposite side. This is called the “ Deep perineal fascia." It is a septum of divi- sion between the interior and the exterior of the pelvis, between the internal organs of generation and the ex- ternal. The deep perineal fascia is not, however, a single membrane, but consists of two layers, between which are situated the membranous portion of the urethra, the com- pressor urethrae muscle, part of the internal pudic arteries, the arteries of the bulb, and Cowper’s glands. Externally to the deep fascia is the penis, which is com- posed of three lengthened bodies, the two corpora caver- nosa above, and the corpus spongiosum below. The corpora cavernosa are firmly attached to the ramus of the pubis and ischium on each side, by two diverging pro- cesses, called crura penis. The corpus spongiosum is the medium of transmission for the urethra, which enters that body immediately that it escapes from the deep perineal fascia, and takes its course through its interior to its ter- mination at the meatus urinarius. The extremity of the corpus spongiosum, which receives the urethra, is considerably enlarged, and is called the bulb ; at its opposite extremity it is again enlarged, and forms the glans penis. The penis is moved by three pairs of muscles, which are the muscles of the perineum. It is supplied with blood-vessels and nerves from the internal pudic artery and nerve. The muscles, vessels, and nerves, are in im- mediate relation with the commencement of the penis, and directly external to the deep perineal fascia. Then the whole of these parts are covered in and held firmly in their places by the superficial perineal fascia, which is continuous with the deep perineal fascia pos- teriorly, and is firmly attached on each side to the ramus of the pubis and ischium, whilst anteriorly it is continuous with the cellular base of the common superficial fascia of the scrotum and abdomen. So that the genital portion of the perineum consists of404 PERINEUM. — DISSECTION. two layers of fascia, which are connected posteriorly and at the sides, and enclose a triangular space, in which are contained the root of the penis, with its muscles, vessels, and nerves. Externally to the superficial perineal fascia, is the common superficial fascia of the body and the in- tegument. The Posterior or anal portion of the perineum, instead of a resisting membranous partition, like the deep perineal fascia, is divided from the cavity of the pelvis by a convex muscular septum, the levator ani muscle, which arises from nearly the whole circumference of the interior of the pelvis, and is inserted around the extremity of the rectum. A broad band of muscular fibres embraces the lower end of the intestine, forming the internal sphincter; and superficially to it is the flat ellipse of the external sphincter, which is covered by the common superficial fascia and integument. Dissection. — To dissect the perineum the subject should be fixed in the position for lithotomy, that is, the hands should be bound to the soles of the feet, and the knees kept apart. An easier plan is the drawing of the feet upwards by means of a cord passed through a hook in the ceiling. Both of these means of preparation have for their object the full exposure of the perineum. And as this is a dissection which demands some degree of delicacy and nice manipulation, a strong light should be thrown upon the part. Having fixed the sub- ject, and drawn the scrotum upwards by means of a string or hook, carry an incision from the base of the scrotum along the ramus of the pubis and ischium and tuberosity of the ischium, to a point parallel with the apex of the coccyx ; then describe a curve over the coccyx to the same point on the opposite side, and continue the incision onwards along the opposite tuberosity, and ramus of the ischium, and ramus of the pubis, to the opposite side of the scrotum, where the two extremi- ties may be connected by a transverse incision. This incision will completely surround the perineum, following very nearly the outline of its boundaries. Now let the student dissect off the integument carefully from the whole of the included space, and he will expose the fatty cellular structure of the common superficial fascia, which exactly resembles the superficial fascia in every other situation. Having exposed the Common superficial fascia, the student repeats the incision by which he divided the in- tegument, and dissects off the common superficial fascia in the same way as the preceding layer. This dissection displays the superficial perineal fascia» which is analogous to the deep fascia of other regions ; but, from the circumstance of another layer in the peri-405 SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL FASCIA. neum assuming the title of deep, we must for the present submit to this apparent departure from the unity of plan which we have heretofore had ample evidence of in the pursuit of our dissections. The Superficialperinealfascia is very tough and resisting in the genital region, thin and ill-defined in the anal region. The latter portion scarcely deserves our attention ; the former requires careful examination. It is firmty attached to the ramus of the pubis and ischium on each side, nearly as far back as the tuberosity, where it becomes continuous with the deep perineal fascia. In front it is continuous with the covering of the scrotum, called dartos. It follows, from this arrangement, that if urine had es- caped from the urethra at the point where that tube had just traversed the deep perineal fascia, it would be unable to follow the laws of gravity, and pass backwards towards the anus, on account of the communication between the superficial perineal fascia and the deep perineal fascia. I It could not pass outwards into the thighs, on account i of the connection of the superficial perineal fascia to the 5 of the pubis and ischium. It would, therefore, burrow among the muscles at the root of the penis, and be constrained to follow the direction of the penis for- wards into the scrotum {fig. 45.17.), and thence upwards into the cellular tissue of the lower part of the abdomen. An abscess in this situation is excessively painful, on account of the tension and resistance of the superficial perineal fascia; and, unless speedily opened by the sur- geon, might give rise to consequences dangerous to life. The best manner of dissecting the superficial perineal fascia is to make an incision from the middle point of the upper incision to the tuberosity of the ischium on each side. We thus form a A shaped flap, . !• which, on being turned downwards (fig. 48. 4.), displays very dis- al tinctly the continuity of this fascia with the deep perineal fascia 6.). f The two side flaps (5- 5.) are then to be dissected outwards, and the inn connection between this fascia and the ramus of pubis and ischium lemonstrated. When the student has thus satisfied himself of the connections of he superficial perineal fascia, he must proceed to remove the fat and tellular tissue, which conceal from view the muscles aud superficial ressels of the perineum. In the middle line is the projection of the rorpus spongiosum, and on each side the commencement of the cor- ||wora cavernosa (crura pcnisj. Upon these bodies arc situated 1 ir two406 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. pairs of muscles, and, between them, the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. To see the muscles clearly, the vessels and nerves on one side had better be dissected away with the fat and cellular tissue. The Muscles of the genital region of the perineum, are the Accelerators urinae, Erectores penis, Transversi perinei. The Acceleratores urinae arise from a tendinous point in the centre of the perineum and from the raphe. From these origins the fibres diverge like the plumes of a pen; the inferior fibres are inserted into the ramus of the pubis and ischium ; the middle completely encircle the corpus spongiosum, and meet upon its upper side ; and the anterior spread out upon the corpus cavernosum on each side, into which they are inserted. The insertions of these muscles may be seen by care- fully raising one muscle from the corpus spongiosum and tracing its fibres. The Erector penis arises from the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the corpus cavernosum on each side. The Transversusperinei arises from the tuberosity of the ischium on each side, and is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perineum. The Anal portion of the perineum must now be examined. When the superficial fascia is dissected off, a thin layer of muscular fibres will be observed, surrounding the anus like an ellipse: this is the external sphincter ani. It is attached anteriorly to the tendinous point of the perineum, and posteriorly to the point of the coccyx. If this muscle be carefully removed, the edge of a flat band of muscular fibres will be found embracing the lower ex- tremity of the rectum : this is the sphincter ani intemus. Surrounding the anus is a quantity of loose cellular tissue, containing adipose matter and some small arterial branches,—the external hemorrhoidal: this is the seat of the burrowing sinuses which often occur in this region. When the fat is dissected away, the fibres of the levator ani will be seen converging from the circumference of the407 INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. t pelvis, to be inserted into the lower extremity of the rectum. Actions.—The accelerators urinae being continuous at the middle line, and attached on either side to the bone, will support the spongy portion of the urethra, and acting suddenly, will propel the last drops of urine or the semen from the canal. The erector penis is rather a depressor than an erector muscle. The erection of this organ results from internal distension. The muscle tends to draw it downwards while in this state, and probably serves the purpose of a stay, to direct its course in its appropriate function. The transverse muscles serve to steady the tendinous centre, that the muscles attached to it may obtain a firm point of support. The External sphincter contracts the integument around the anus, and by its attachment to the tendinous centre, and to the point of the coccyx, assists the levator ani in giving support to the opening during expulsive ef- forts. The internal sphincter contracts the extremity of tthe cylinder of the intestine. The levator ani acts in unison with the diaphragm, and rises and falls like that muscle in forcible respiration. Yielding to the propulsive action of the abdominal muscles, it enables the outlet of the pelvis to bear a greater force than a resisting structure, and on the remission of such actions, it restores the pe- rineum to its original form. Arteries. — The perineal arteries are branches of the nternal pudic, one of the terminal divisions of the in- ternal iliac. The Internal pudic artery leaves the pelvis through .he great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis nuscle, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the aelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen ; it then crosses the internal obturator muscle to the ramus of the schium, being situated at about an inch from the margin >f the tuberosity, and bound down by the obturator fascia ; t next ascends the ramus of the ischium, enters between he two layers of the deep perineal fascia, lying along the ■order of the ramus of the pubis, and at the symphisis ierces the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, ery much diminished in size, and reaches the dorsum f the penis, along which it runs, supplying that organ408 INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. — BRANCHES. under the name of dorsalis penis. Its branches are — Within the pelvis — Middle hemorrhoidal; In the perineum — External hemorrhoidal (3 or 4), Superficialis perinei, Transversal is perinei, Arteria bulbosi, Arteria corporis cavernosi, Arteria dorsalis penis. The External hemorrhoidal arteries are three or four small branches given off by the internal pudic while behind the tuberosity of the ischium. They are distributed to the anus, and to the muscles and fascia in the anal region. The Superficial perineal artery is given off near the attachment of the crus penis: it pierces the connecting layer of the superficial and deep perineal fascia, and runs forwards in front of the transversus perinei muscle, and along the groove between the accelerator urinae and erector penis to the scrotum, to which it is distributed. It gives nutrient branches to the perineum as it passes forwards. One of these, larger than the rest, crosses the perineum, resting on the transversus perinei muscle, and is therefore named transversalisperinei. The three remaining arteries are the proper vessels of the penis; they are distributed to the corpus spongiosum, corpora cavernosa, and dorsum penis. The Artery of the bulb (Jig. 48. 13.) is given off from the pudic nearly opposite the opening for the transmission of the urethra: it passes obliquely inwards between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and pierces the anterior layer to enter the corpus spongiosum, to which it is distributed. The Artery of the corpus cavernosum (Jig. 48. 14.) pierces the crus penis, and runs forwards in its interior, supplying its cellular structure. The Dorsal artery of the penis (Jig. 48. 15.) ascends between the two crura and the symphisis pubis to the dorsum penis, and runs forwards by the side of the sus- pensory ligament in the groove between the corpora cavernosa to the glans, distributing branches in its course to the body of the organ and to the integument.409 DORSALIS PENIS VEIN. The Veins of the perineum require no distinct notice : they maintain the same relation to the arteries that the smaller veins do in other parts. The principal vein of the penis, the great dorsal vein, is remarkable both for its mode of origin and for its size. It commences by a number of veins, which return the blood from the glans penis, and which converge to form a vessel of considerable bulk, which runs in the groove between the dorsal arteries, and receives veins from the corpora cavernosa in its course : it passes between the fibres of the suspensory ligament of the penis, and through- a tendinous arch beneath the symphisis pubis, to the prostate gland, where it communicates with a remarkable plexus of veins, situated around the neck of the bladder. The numerous veins which converge from the glans penis to form the dorsal vein have a peculiar arrange- ment, and form a kind of plexus upon the neck of the penis. In the dog, the dorsal vein is embraced by a muscle of considerable size, while passing beneath the arch of the pubis, the compressor vence dorsalis. This muscle has been described by Mr. Houston, of Dublin, as existing in the human subject. It arises from the ramus of the pubis on each side, and, arching upwards, unites by a thin tendon with its fellow of the opposite side, over the dorsal vein. The two muscles, when in action, would therefore draw down the tendon, and compress the vein against the root of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis is so large, and its com- s . munications with the pelvic veins so free, that we have i: frequently succeeded in injecting the right side of the !, heart and veins of the neck by placing the injecting-pipe i in the dorsal vein of the penis. The Nerves of the perineum are branches of the in- iit ernal pudic. The Internal pudic nerve is an offset of the sacral Ifcolexus: it passes out of the pelvis with the internal i): )udic artery, and lies by the side of that vessel throughout ■Its course. Its branches correspond with the branches of ■'I he artery, and need no distinct description. The dissector may now remove the muscles and vessels of the t|. erineum, that he may see more clearly the texture and position of T410 CONTENTS OF THE PERINEAL FASCIA. the bulbous portion of the corpus spongiosum with the artery enter- ing its posterior part; then let him cut across the corpus spongiosum at about its middle, and, turning it down from the rest of the penis, remove it altogether by dividing the urethra close to the deep perineal fascia. This proceeding displays the convergence of the crura penis, and the round opening in the deep perineal fascia, through which the urethra passes. The student must then carefully dissect off the an- terior layer o.f the deep perineal fascia, which will bring into view the membranous part of the urethra, the compressor urethrae muscle {Jig. 48. 8, 9, 10.), the artery of the bulb (13.), the internal pudic artery (12.) at each side, and two small yellowish bodies (11.) about the size of lentils, placed immediately beneath the urethra, Cowper’s glands. * Fig. 48. The structures contained between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. No. 1. The symphisis pubis. 2. 2. The ramus of the pubis and ischium. 3. 3. The tuberosities of the ischia. 4. A triangular portion of the superficial fascia turned down, and shown to be continuous with the deep fascia (6.). 5.5. Two portions of the superficial perineal fascia, showing its connection to the ramus of the pubis and ischium. 6. 6. The posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, the anterior layer having been removed. 7. The membranous portion of the urethra cut across. 8. The superior fasciculus of the compressor urethrae muscle of one side. 9. The inferior fasciculus of the compressor urethra;. - The two fasciculi (8.) and (9.), constitute Guthrie’s muscle of one side. 10. The pubic portions of the compressor urethrae, Wilsons muscles. 11. Cowper’s glands, partly embraced by the lower fas- ciculus of the compressor urethrae muscle. 12. The internal pudic artery passing posteriorly to the crus of the compressor urethra*Wilson’s and guthrie’s muscles. 411 T 2 The Compressor urethrae * muscle, fig. 48. [Wilson’s and Guthrie’s muscles], consists of two portions; one of which is transverse in its direction, and passes inwards to embrace the membranous urethra; the other is peipen- dicular, and descends from the pubis. The transverse portion, discovered by Mr. Guthrie, arises, by a narrow tendinous point, from the upper part of the ramus of the ischium, on each side, and divides into two fasciculi, 8. 9., which pass inwards and slightly upwards, and embrace the membranous portion of the urethra and Cowper’s glands. As they pass towards the urethra, they spread out and become fan-shaped, and are inserted into a ten- dinous raphe upon the upper and lower surfaces of the urethra, extending from the apex of the prostate gland, to which they are attached posteriorly, to the bulbous portion of the urethra, with which they are connected in front. When seen from above, these portions resemble two fans, connected by their expanded border along the middle line of the membranous urethra, from the prostate to the bulbous portion of the urethra. The same appear- ance is obtained by viewing them from below. The Perpendicxdar portion {fig. 48. 10.), described by Mr. Wilson, arises by two tendinous points from the inner surface of the arch of the pubis, on each side of, and close to the symphisis. The tendinous origins soon be- come muscular, and descend perpendicularly to be in- serted into the upper fasciculus of the transverse portion of the muscle ; so that it is not a distinct muscle sur- rounding the membranous portion of the urethra, and 5supporting it as in a sling, as was described by Mr. I Wilson, but merely an upper origin of the more important muscle discovered by Mr. Guthrie. The compressor urethrae may be considered either as I :wo symmetrical muscles meeting at the raphe, or as a [ single muscle: we have adopted the latter course in the n 3. 1 lie artery of the bull). 14. The artery of the corpus cavernosum. 1 5. The arteria dorsalis penis. * For the opportunity of giving the description of this muscle, we re indebted to the liberality and courtesy of Mr. Guthrie, and also | > Mr. Charles Guthrie, who removed the preparation from its bottle lat we might examine it thoroughly.412 LAYERS OF THE PERINEUM. above description, as appearing to us the more consistent with the general connections of the muscle, and with its actions. The internal pudic artery {fig. 48.12.) lies behind the transverse portion of the muscle at each side, near its at- tachment to the ischium. The artery of the bulb, 13., is given off from the pudic above the transverse portion, and passes inwards in front of the muscle, to enter the posterior part of the bulb. Actions. — Taking its fixed point from the ramus of the ischium at each side, “ it can,” says Mr. Guthrie, “ compress the urethra so as to close it; I conceive com- pletely, after the manner of a sphincter.” The transverse portion will also have a tendency to draw the urethra downwards, whilst the perpendicular portion will draw it upwards towards the pubis. The inferior fasciculus of the transverse muscle, enclosing Cowper’s glands, will assist them in evacuating their secretion. Coivpers * glands {fig. 48.11 .fig. 45. 16.) are two small clusters of mucous follicles, which pour their secretion by two slender ducts into the bulbous portion of the ure- thral canal. They are enclosed by the fibres of the com- pressor urethrae muscle, by which they are assisted in the excretion of their proper fluid. The rest of the anatomy of this region belongs to the viscera of the pelvis. The summary of the structures in the perineum may be thus expressed in a tabular form. Integument, Common superficial fascia, Superficial perineal fascia, Muscles, vessels, and nerves, and root of penis. ‘ Membranous urethra, Compressor urethrae, Artery of the bulb, Internal pudic artery, Cowper’s glands. The Operation for lithotomy consists in dividing these Deep perineal fascia, containing * William Cowper, “ Glandularum quarundam earumque ductuuni Deseriptio et Figurae. ” London, 1702.413 OPERATION FOR LITHOTOMY. T 3 different structures, and carrying an incision into the uri- nary bladder, for the purpose of removing a calculus. Another operation, the puncture of the bladder through the perineum, is also performed by incising in the same direction, and through the same parts. In his second dissection, the student should practise the former opera- tion, and afterwards examine the structures through which his incision has passed, and the liabilities that might ensue from proceeding ignorantly. In lithotomy, the patient is fixed by binding the palms of the hands against the soles of the feet, and holding apart the knees. The operator has thus the whole ex- panse of the perineum before his eyes; he observes the elevated line (raphe) which runs along the middle of the perineum to the anus, and he feels for the tuberosity of the ischium ; he then commences an incision at the raphe, about an inch and a half, more or less, in front of the anus. The exact point for the commencement of the incision must always be left to the judgment of the operator, who will proportion the length of his incision to the size and age of his patient, his fatness, or emaciation ; an inch and ;a half being about the average distance in an adult of ordinary condition. The incision is carried obliquely downwards and out- wards to a point, one-third nearer to the tuberosity of the ischium than to the anus, and should terminate oppo- site the middle of the anus. The proportional distance between the tuberosity of the ischium and anus, is the Scylla and Charybdis of the operation ; for approaching nearer to the former would endanger the internal pudic irtery; and to the latter, the rectum ; particularly if the Surgeon have neglected the precaution of emptying that )owel previously to the operation. ' I The First step, then, of the operation, is to make a t teady incision from the raphe, an inch and a half in front t'f the anus, obliquely downwards and outwards to a point ne-third nearer to the tuberosity of the ischium than to j he anus, and opposite the middle of that opening. This icision should divide the integument, the common super- cial fascia, the superficial perineal fascia, the lower fibres J f the accelerator mscle and artery. urinae, and the transversus perinei414 OPERATION FOR LITHOTOMY. The operator now inserts his finger into the upper part of the incision, drawing aside the bulb of the urethra, and presses his nail into the groove of the staff, just at the point where the urethra escapes from the deep peri- neal fascia : he then conveys the point of a knife, guided by his finger nail, into the groove, at the under part of the cylinder of the urethra, and carries it onwards, along the groove in the staff, into the bladder. In withdrawing the knife he depresses the handle, so as to divide but slightly the neck of the bladder, prostate gland, and deep perineal fascia, and more extensively any of the other textures which may have remained undivided by the first inci- sion. The form of the opening thus made must evidently be triangular, the base being at the integument, the apex at the neck of the bladder. The insertion of the knife into the under part of the cylinder of the urethra, is a pre- caution for avoiding the artery of the bulb *, which might otherwise be divided, and give rise to unpleasant hemorrhage. The Third step in the operation consists in introducing the finger of the right hand through the wound into the bladder, dilating the neck of that viscus, and breaking the prostate gland in the direction of the incision, for the purpose of securing space for the removal of the cal- culus. Then passing the forceps along the finger, the calculus is seized by its short diameter, and must be with- drawn in the axis of the pelvis. The structures cut through in this operation in their order of division, are the Integument, Common superficial fascia, Superficial perineal fascia, Bulbous portion of the accelerator urinae muscle, Transversus perinei muscle, Transversalis perinei artery, Anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, Membranous portion of the urethra, * The author has seen two or three instances of the early division of this artery, in which no precaution on the part of the surgeon could have availed, and the artery must have been inevitably divided.FEMALE PERINEUM. 4-15 Lower fasciculus of the compressor urethrae muscle, Posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, A few fibres of the levator ani, Prostate gland, Neck of the bladder. Perineum in the Female. The structures in the female perineum are the same as in the male, but somewhat modified to suit the dif- ference of form in the organs of generation. The in- tegument and superficial fascia are thrown into folds, called labia, to prepare for the enormous distension to which this part is submitted in parturition. The entrance of the vagina is encircled by a sphincter, which is not unlike the accelerator urinae of the male. The clitoris is the penis of the female, composed of its two corpora cavernosa, and therefore provided with erectores clitoridis analogous to the erectores penis. The transversus perinei, sphincters, and levator ani, are precisely the same as in the male. The Muscles of the female perineum are the Constrictor vaginae, Transversus perinei, Erector clitoridis, Compressor urethrae, Sphincter ani. The Constrictor vagince is analogous to the accelerator urinae of the male: it arises from the tendinous centre of the perineum, where it is continuous with the sphincter ani, and passes forwards on each side of the entrance of the vagina, to be inserted into the ramus of the pubis and corpus cavernosum clitoridis. The Transversus perinei is a small muscle arising on each side from the ramus of the ischium, and inserted into the side of the constrictor vaginae. The Erector clitoridis arises from the ramus of the -schium, and is inserted on each side into the crus cli- oridis. The Compressor urethrae has the same origins and in- ertions, and exercises the same functions in the female -.s in the male. t 4<FEMALE PERINEUM. 416 The Sphincter ani surrounds the lower extremity of the rectum, as in the male. The Levator ani is inserted into the side of the vagina and rectum. The Arteries of the perineum are branches of the in- ternal pudic, and are distributed as in the male : they are the External hemorrhoidal, Superficialis perinei, Vaginal arteries, Artery of the corpus cavernosum, Artery of the dorsum clitoridis. The Nerves accompany each of the branches of the artery, and are also derived from the internal pudic and from the hypogastric plexus.417 CHAPTER XI. I SYMPATHETIC NERVE. he Sympathetic nerve consists of a chain of ganglia, itending along the side of the vertebral column from the ;ad to the coccyx; communicating with all the other irves of the body; and distributing branches to all the ternal organs and viscera. It communicates with the other nerves immediately at eir exit from the cranium and vertebral canal. The urth and sixth nerves, however, form an exception to this le, for with these it unites in the cavernous sinus ; and ith the olfactory, optic, and auditory, at their ultimate :pansions. The branches of distribution accompany the arteries tiich are distributed to the different organs; and form immunications around them, which are called plexuses ; id take the name of the artery with which they are sociated : thus we have the mesenteric plexus, hepatic exus, splenic plexus, Ac. All the internal organs of the sad, neck, and trunk, are supplied with branches from le sympathetic, and some of them exclusively ; hence it is jnsidered a nerve of organic life. It is called the ganglionic nerve, from the circumstance 'being formed by a number of ganglia ; and from the con- ant disposition which it evidences, in its distribution, to jmmunicate and form small knots or ganglia. There are six sympathetic ganglia in the head; vis., the inglion of Ribes; the ciliary, or lenticular; the naso- jlatine, or Cloquet’s ; the spheno-palatine, or Meckel’s; ie submaxillary; and the otic, or Arnold’s: three in the icli; superior, middle, and inferior: twelve in the dorsal \gion; four in the lumbar region ; and four or five in the icral region. Each ganglion may be considered as a distinct centre, ving off branches in four different directions, viz., iperior or ascending, to communicate with the ganglion t 5SYMPATHETIC CRANIAL GANGLIA. 418 above; inferior or descending, to communicate with the ganglion below ; external, to communicate with the spinal nerves; and internal, to communicate with the sympathetic filaments of the opposite side, and to he distributed .to the viscera. Cranial Ganglia. Ganglion of Ribes, Ciliary, or lenticular ganglion, Naso-palatine, or Cloquet’s ganglion, Spheno-palatine, or Meckel’s ganglion, Submaxillai-y ganglion, Otic, or Arnold’s ganglion. 1. The Ganglion of Ribes {fig. 49. l.) is a small gan- glion situated upon the anterior communicating artery,and formed by the union of the sympathetic filaments, 2., which accompany the ramifications of the two anterior cerebral arteries. These filaments are derived from the carotid plexus at each side; and, through their intervention, the ganglion of Ribes is brought in connection with the carotid plexus, 3., and with the other ganglia of the sympathetic. This ganglion, though of very small size, is interesting, as being the superior point of union between the sympathetic chains of opposite sides of the body. 2. The Ciliary ganglion (lenticular) {fig. 49. A. fig. 21. 22.) is a small quadrangular flattened ganglion situated within the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus : it is in close contact with the optic nerve, and is surrounded by a quantity of fat, which renders its dis- section difficult. Its Branches of distribution are the ciliary, which arise from its anterior angles by two groups ; the upper group, consisting of about four filaments; and the lower, of five or six. They accompany the ciliary arteries in a waving course, and divide into a number of branches pre- viously to piercing the sclerotic around the optic nerve: they supply the tunics of the eye. A small filament is said, by Tiedemann, to accompany the arteria centralis retinae into the globe of the eye. Its Branches of communication are three: 1. from the posterior superior angle to the nasal branch, 6., of theNASO-PALATINE GANGLION. 419 ophthalmic nerve ; 2. a short thick branch from the pos- terior inferior angle to the inferior division of the third nerve, 5.; and, 3., a long filament, 7., which passes back- wards to the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the carotid plexus. 3. The Naso-palatine ganglion {fig- 49.) (Clo- * Fig. 49. The cranial ganglia of the sympathetic nerve. No. 1. The ganglion of Ribes. 2. The filament by which it com- municates with the carotid plexus (3.). 4. The ciliary or lenticular ganglion, giving off ciliary branches for the supply of the globe of the eye. 5. Part of the inferior division of the third nerve, receiving a short thick branch from the ganglion. 6. Part of the nasal nerve, receiving a longer branch from the ganglion. 7. A slender filament sent directly backwards from the ganglion to the sympathetic branches in the cavernous sinus. 8. Part of the sixth nerve in the cavernous sinus,' receiving two branches from the carotid plexus. 9. Meckel’s . ganglion (spheno-palatine). 10. Its ascending branches, communi- cating with the superior maxillary nerve. 11. Its descending branches, the posterior palatine. 12. Its anterior branches, spheno palatine or nasal. 13. The naso-palatine branch, one of the nasal branches. ’* The point where Cloquet imagined the naso-palatine ganglion to be situated. 14. The posterior branch of the ganglion, the Vidian nerve. 15. Its carotid branch, communicating with the carotid plexus. 16. Its petrosal branch, joining the angular bend of the facial nerve. 17. The facial nerve. 18. The chorda tympani nerve,, which de- scends to join the gustatory nerve. 19. The gustatory nerve. 20. The submaxillary ganglion, receiving the chorda tympani nerve from he gustatory. 21. The superior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic.SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 420 quet’s), is a small lengthened body, situated in the naso- palatine canal. There is no difficulty in finding it in that situation, but it is still a question whether it be actually a ganglion. Arnold refuses to admit it in his plates of the cranial nerves, and denies its existence ; Cruveilhier agrees with him in opinion. But Mr. Charles Guthrie, prosector in King’s College, London, has recently satisfied himself of its existence, and of its ganglionic nature. Its Branches of distribution are two or three small filaments to the anterior part of the palate ; anterior pala- tine nerves. Its Branches of communication are two long delicate filaments, 13., which ascend upon the septum narium, be- neath the mucous membrane, and pass across the posterior part of the roof of the nares, and through the spheno- palatine foramina, to terminate in the spheno-palatine ganglion at each side. 4. The Spheno-palatine ganglion {figAS.9.~) (Mec- kel’s) occupies the pterygo-palatine fossa, and is of con- siderable size. Its branches are divisible into four groups : ascending ; descending ; anterior or internal; and posterior. The Branches of distribution are, the internal or nasal, 12., four or five in number, which enter the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, and supply the mucous mem- brane on the outer wall of the nares ; and the descending or posterior palatine, 11., branches, three in number, which pass downwards through the posterior palatine canal, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose and antrum maxillare, to the velum palati, and to the palate. The Branches of communication are the ascending * 10., two small branches which pass upwards to join the su- perior maxillary nerve ; and the posterior branch, or Vidian nerve. The Vidian f nerve {fig. 48. 14.) passes directly back- wards from the spheno-palatine ganglion, through the * Arnold figures, in his beautiful plates of the cranial nerves, two small ascending filaments which enter the orbit and join the optic nerve. f Guido-Guidi, latinised into Vidus-Vidius, was Professor of anatomy and medicine in the College of France in 1542. His work is posthumous, and was published in 1611.421 VIDIAN NERVE. pterygoid or Vidian canal, to the foramen lacerum basis cranii, where it divides into two branches, the carotid and petrosal. The Carotid branch, 15., enters the carotid canal, and joins the carotid plexus. The Petrosal branch, 16., enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and passes backwards beneath theCasserian ganglion, and beneath the dura mater, lying in a groove upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone, to the hiatus Fallopii. Entering the hiatus Fallopii, it immediately joins the facial nerve, just as that nerve is making its angular bend, previously to winding back along the inner wall of the tympanum.* The petrosal branch accompanies the facial nerve, 17., along the aqueductus Fallopii, enclosed in its neurilema, to within a few lines of the stylo-mastoid foramen. It then quits the facial nerve, returning upon itself at an acute angle, and enters the tympanum near the base of the pyramid. It now takes the name of chorda tympani, 18., and crosses the tympanum enveloped in mucous membrane, between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus to the fissura Glaseri; passing through a small opening in this fissure, it descends behind the condyle of the lower jaw, and behind the auri- cular and inferior dental nerves to the gustatory nerve, 19., which it joins at an acute angle. + Accompanying the gustatory, enclosed in its neurilema, to the submaxillary * Here two rival opinions clash : one set of anatomists, and with them Swan and Arnold, believe that the petrosal branch unites with the substance of the facial nerve; the two latter writers even go so far as to describe a ganglionic enlargement upon the facial nerve at | this point, and Arnold would seem to intimate that the nerve is actually a branch of this ganglion : while another set maintain that the petrosal branch merely accompanies the facial nerve, being en- closed in its neurilema. As the question is yet litigated, and as we are prepared with no positive proof to decide for either party, we shall at present adopt the latter view as the more convenient for de- scription, and for explaining the connections between the different I cranial ganglia. The latter opinion has for its supporters Cloquet, jiRibes, and Ilirzel. f Here, again, the question of fusion of nervous substance, or mere contact, has been warmly agitated, but with no positive and unques- 1 donable results. We shall, therefore, for the reasons given above, t idopt the latter opinion until we shall find opportunity to decide the 1 natter for ourselves.422 OTIC GANGLION. gland, it quits that nerve and communicates with the sub- maxillary ganglion, 20. The petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve receives a branch from the tympanic nerve while in the hiatus Fallopii. The Vidian nerve thus becomes the medium of com- munication between the spheno-palatine ganglion and submaxillary ganglion ; and between both of these gan- glia and the carotid plexus ; and through the tympanic nerve with the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves: and if the fusion of nervous substance be ad- mitted, between the whole of these and the facial, the auditory, and the gustatory nerves. 5. The Submaxillary ganglion {Jig. 49. 20.) is of small size, but very distinct, and is situated in the sub- maxillary gland. Its Branches of distribution are numerous, and ramify upon the ducts of the gland, and upon Wharton’s duct. Its Branches of communication are — 1. one or two small branches which join the gustatory nerve ; and, 2. several minute branches which communicate with the sympathetic filaments ramifying upon the facial artery. It is associated with the carotid plexus, and the other cranial ganglia, by the petrosal branch of the Vidian. 6. The Otic ganglion (Arnold’s *) is a small red body, resting against the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, immediately below the foramen ovale ; it is in relation externally with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve, just at the point of union of the motor root; in- ternally, it rests against the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and tensor palati muscle; and,posteriorly, it is in contact with the arteria meningea media. It is closely adherent to the internal pterygoid nerve, and appears like a swelling upon that branch. The branches of the otic ganglion are seven in number; two of distribution, and five of communication. The Branches of distribution are—1. a small fila- * Frederick Arnold, “ Dissertatio Inauguralis de Parte Cephalica Nervi Sympathetici.” Heidelberg, 1826; and “ Ueber den Ohrkno- ten.” 1828.423 CAROTID PLEXUS. ment to the tensor tympani muscle ; and, 2. one to the tensor palati muscle. The Branches of communication are— 1. two or three small branches to the motor root of the inferior maxillary nerve; 2. two branches to the auricular nerve; 3. a filament to the facial nerve; 4. a long filament, the nervus petrosus superficialis minor, to communicate with the tympanic nerve (Jacobson’s) in the tympanum ; and, 5. one or two small branches which join the sympathetic filaments of the arteria meningea media artery. Carotid plexus. — The ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion enters the carotid canal with the internal carotid artery, and divides into two branches, which form several loops of communication with each other around the artery. This constitutes the carotid plexus {fig- 49. 3.) They also form, frequently, a small gangliform swelling upon the under part of the artery, which is called the carotid ganglion. It is not, however, constant; and, as it performs no especial function, we have not included it amongst the cranial ganglia of the sympathetic. A continuation of the carotid plexus on- wards with the artery by the side of the sella turcica, is often called the cavernous plexus: this is an unnecessary and useless complication, and we therefore abstain from giving it a place in our description. The carotid plexus is the centre of communication be- tween all the cranial ganglia; and being derived from the superior cervical ganglion, between the cranial ganglia and those of the trunk, it also communicates with the greater part of the cerebral nerves, and distributes fila- ments with each of the branches of the internal carotid, which accompany them in all their ramifications. Thus, the Ganglion of Iiibes is formed by the union of the filaments which accompany the anterior cerebral arteries, and whiclwneet on the anterior communicating artery. The ciliary ganglion communicates with the plexus by means of the long branch, which is sent back to join it in the cavernous sinus. The sphcno-palatine, and with it the naso-palatine ganglion, joins the plexus by means of the carotid branch of the Vidian. The sub- maxillary ganglion is also connected with it through the424 SYMPATHETIC. CERVICAL GANGLIA. Vidian. And the otic ganglion is brought in relation with it by means of the tympanic nerve and Vidian. It communicates with the third nerve in the cavernous sinus, and through the ciliary ganglion; with the Cas- serian ganglion; with the ophthalmic division of the fifth in the cavernous sinus, and by means of the ciliary gan- glion ; with the superior maxillary, through the spheno- palatine ganglion ; and with the inferior maxillary, through the chorda tympani and Vidian. It sends two branches directly to the sixth nerve, 8., which unite * with it as it crosses the cavernous sinus : it communicates with the facial and auditory nerves, through the medium of the petrosal branch of the Vidian ; and with the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves, through the nervics petrosus superficialis minor, a branch from the otic gan- glion to the tympanic nerve. Cervical Ganglia. The Superior cervical ganglion {fig- 49. 21. fig. 50. 1.) is long and fusiform, of a greyish colour, and smooth oh the surface, and of considerable thickness; extending from within an inch of the carotid foramen in the petrous bone, to opposite the lower border of the third cervical vertebra. It is in relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein ; and, behind, with the rectus anticus major muscle. Its Branches, like those of all the sympathetic ganglia in the trunk, are divisible into superior, inferior, external, and internal; to which may be added, as proper to this ganglion, anterior. The Superior, 2., is a single branch which ascends by the side of the internal carotid, and divides into two branches; one lying to the outer side, the other to the inner side of that vessel. The two branches enter the carotid canal, and communicate by means of several fila- ments sent from one to the other, to constitute the carotid plexus. * Panizza, in his “ Experimental Researches on the Nerves,” denies this communication, and states very vaguely that “ they are merely lost and entwined around it. ” — Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, January 1836.Middle And inferior cervical ganglia. 425 The Inferior or descending branch, 3., sometimes two, is the cord of communication with the middle cervical ganglion. The External branches are numerous, and may be divided into two sets : 1. Those which communicate with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and lingual nerves ; and, 2. those which communicate with the three first cervical nerves, 4. The Internal branches are three in number: 1. Pha- ryngeal, to assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus; 2. Laryngeal, to join the superior laryngeal nerve and its branches ; and, 3. The superior cardiac nerve, 6., or nervus superficial^ cordis. The Anterior branches accompany the carotid artery with its branches around which they form intricate plexuses; they are called, from the softness of their tex- ture, nervi molles. The Middle cervical ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is of small size, and is sometimes altogether wanting. It is situated opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and rests upon the inferior thyroid artery. This relation is so constant, as to have induced Haller to name it the “ thyroid gang- lion.” Its Superior branch, 3., or branches, ascend to commu- nicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its Inferior branches descend to join the inferior cervical ganglion. Its External branches communicate with the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves. Its Internal branch, 7., is the middle cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus magnus. The Inferior cervical ganglion (vertebral ganglion) is much larger than the preceding, and is constant in its existence. It is of a semilunar form, and is situated upon the base of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, immediately behind the vertebral artery : hence its title to the designation “ vertebral ganglion'.' Its Superior branches communicate with the middle i cervical ganglion. The Inferior branches pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion. The External branches consist of two sets ; one which426 CARDIAC NERVES. communicates with the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves; and one which accompanies the vertebral artery along the vertebral canal, forming the vertebral plexus. This plexus sends filaments to all the branches given off by the artery, and communicates in the skull with the filaments of the carotid plexus accompanying the branches of the internal carotid artery. The Internal branch, 8., is the inferior cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus minor. Cardiac nerves.*— The Superior cardiac nerve, (Jiff- 50. 6.) (nervus superjicialis cordis) arises from the lower part of the superior cervical ganglion; it then descends the neck behind the common carotid artery, and, parallel with the trachea, crosses the inferior thyroid artery, and accompanying the recurrent laryngeal nerve for a short distance, passes behind the arteria innominate to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, where it joins the cardiac ganglion. In its course it receives branches from the pneumogas- tric nerve, and sends filaments to the thyroid gland and trachea. The Middle cardiac nerve, 7., (nervus cardiacus magnus) proceeds from the middle cardiac ganglion, or, in its absence, from the cord of communication between the superior and inferior. It is the largest of the three nerves, and lies nearly parallel with the recurrent laryngeal. At the root of the neck, it divides into several branches, which pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery; it communicates with the superior and inferior cardiac, and with the pneumogastric and recurrent nerves, and descends to the bifurcation of the trachea, to the great cardiac plexus. The Inferior cardiac nerve (8.) (nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the inferior cervical ganglion, communicates freely with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerves, and descends to the front of the trachea to join the great cardiac plexus. The Cardiac ganglion is a ganglionic enlargement of * There is no constancy with regard to the origin and course of these nerves ; therefore the student must not be disappointed in find- ing the description in discord with his dissection.GREAT CARDIAC PLEXUS. 427 variable size, situated beneath the arch of the aorta, to the right side of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus. It re- ceives the superior cardiac nerves of opposite sides of the neck, and a branch from the pneumogastric nerve, and gives olf numerous branches to the cardiac plexuses. The Great cardiac plexus is situated upon the bifurcation of the trachea, above the right pulmonary artery, and behind the arch of the aorta. It is formed by the convergence of the middle and inferior cardiac nerves, and by branches from the pneumogastric nerve. The Anterior cardiac plexus is situated in front of the as- cending aorta, near to its origin. It is formed by the communica- tions of filaments that proceed from three different sources; lstly, from the superior cardiac nerves, crossing the arch of the aorta ; 2ndly, from the cardiac ganglion beneath the arch ; and 3dly, from the great cardiac plexus, passing between the ascending aorta and the right' auricle. The anterior cardiac plexus supplies the anterior as- * Fig. 50. The sympathetic nerve, its entire length. No. I. The superior cervical ganglion. 2. Its ascending or carotid branch, which divides into two branches. 8. Its descending branch. 4. Its external branches, communicating with the first, second, and ' third cervical nerves. .5. Internal branches to communicate with the facial eighth and ninth pairs, and with the pharyngeal plexus. 6. The superior cardiac nerve, superficialis cordis. 7. The middle or great cardiac nerve, arising from the second cervical ganglion. 8. The inferior cardiac nerve, from the inferior cervical ganglion. 9. Thei 428 SYMPATHETIC THORACIC GANGLIA. pect of the heart, distributing numerous filaments with the left coronary artery, which form the anterior coronary plexus. The Posterior cardiac plexus is formed by numerous branches from the great cardiac plexus, and is situated upon the posterior part of the ascending aorta, near to its origin. It divides into two sets of branches; one set ac- companying the right coronary artery in the auriculo- ventricular sulcus; the other set joining the artery on the posterior aspect of the heart. They both together con- stitute the posterior coronary plexus. The great cardiac plexus likewise gives branches to the auricles of the heart and others, to assist in forming the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses. Thoracic Ganglia. The Thoracic ganglia (Jig. 50. 9. 10.) are twelve in number. They are flattened and triangular or irregular in form, and present the peculiar grey colour and pearly lustre of the other sympathetic ganglia: they rest upon the heads of the ribs, and are covered in by the pleura costalis. The two first and the last ganglia are usually the largest. Their Branches are superior, inferior, external, and in- ternal. The Superior and inferior are prolongations of the substance of the ganglia rather than branches ; the former to communicate with the ganglion above, the latter with that below. The External branches * *, two or three in number, to each of the spinal nerves, 11. ll. The Internal branches of the five upper ganglia are first dorsal ganglion. 10. The last dorsal ganglion. 11. 11. Spinal nerves. 12. Great splanchnic nerve. 13. The two semilunar gan- glia, which form by their communications the solar plexus. 14. The lesser splanchnic nerve, forming the renal plexus. 15. Branches from the lumbar ganglia. 16. The hypogastric plexus. 17. Sacral ganglia. 18. The last ganglion of the sympathetic, ganglion impar. * Careful observation and numerous dissections have convinced us that these branches are derived from the spinal nerves. We must leave the proofs for future labours.429 SOLAR PLEXUS. aortic, and follow the course of the intercostal arteries to that trunk : the branches of the lower ganglia unite to form the two splanchnic nerves. The Great splanchnic nerve, 12., arises from the sixth dorsal ganglion, and receives branches from the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth, which augment it to a nerve of considerable size. It descends in front of the vertebral column, within the posterior mediastinum, pierces the diaphragm immediately to the outer side of each crus, and terminates in the semilunar ganglion. The Lesser splanchnic nerve (renal), 14., is formed by filaments from the tenth, eleventh, and, sometimes, from the twelfth dorsal ganglia. It pierces the diaphragm, and descends to join the renal plexus. TheSemilunar ganglion, 13., is a large, irregular, gangli- form body, pierced by numerous openings, and appearing like the aggregation of a number of smaller ganglia, having spaces between them. It is situated by the side of the cceliac axis, and communicates with the ganglion of the opposite side, both above and below that trunk, so as to form a gangliform circle, from which branches pass off in all directions, like rays from a centre. Hence the entire circle has been named the solar plexus. The Solar plexus receives the great splanchnic nerves; part of the lesser splanchnic nerves ; the termination of the right pneumogastric nerve ; some branches from the right phrenic nerve ; and, sometimes, one or two filaments from the left. It gives off numerous filaments, which accompany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches given off by the abdominal aorta. Thus, we have derived from the solar plexus the Phrenic plexuses, Gastric plexus, Hepatic plexus, Splenic plexus, Supra-renal plexuses, Renal plexuses, Superior mesenteric plexus, Spermatic plexus, Inferior mesenteric plexus. The Renal plexus is formed chiefly by the lesser430 SYMPATHETIC. LUMBAR GANGLIA. splanchnic nerve, but receives many filaments from the solar plexus. The Spermatic plexus is formed principally by the renal plexus. The Inferior mesenteric plexus receives filaments from the aortic plexus. Lumbar Ganglia. The Lumbar ganglia are four in number, of the pecu- liar pearly grey colour, fusiform, and situated upon the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. The Superior and inferior branches of the lumbar gan- glia are branches of communication with the ganglion above and below, as in the dorsal region. The External branches, two or three in number, com- municate with the lumbar nerves. The Internal branches consist of two sets ; of which the upper pass inwards in front of the abdominal aorta, and form around that trunk a plexiform interlacement, which constitute the aortic plexus ; the lower branches, 15., cross the common iliac arteries, and unite over the promontory of the sacrum, to form the hypogastric plexus, 16. The Aortic plexus is formed by branches from the lumbar ganglia, and receives filaments from the solar and superior mesenteric plexuses. It sends filaments to the inferior mesenteric plexus, and terminates in the hypogastric plexus. The Hypogastric plexus (fig. 50. 16.) is formed by the termination of the aortic plexus, and by the union of branches from the lower lumbar ganglia. It is situated over the promontory of the sacrum, between the two com- mon iliac arteries, and bifurcates inferiorly into two lateral portions, which communicate with the sacral ganglia and sacral plexuses of the spinal nerves. It distributes branches to all the viscera of the pelvis, and to the branches of the internal iliac artery. Sacral Ganglia. The Sacral ganglia, 17., are four or five in number. They are situated upon the sacrum, close to the anterior sacral foramina, and resemble the lumbar ganglia inSACRAL GANGLIA. 431 form and mode of connection, although they are much smaller in size. The Superior and inferior branches communicate with the ganglia above and below. The External branches communicate with the sacral and coccygeal nerves. The Internal branches communicate very freely with the lateral divisions of the hypogastric plexus, and are distributed to the pelvic viscera. The last sacral ganglia of opposite sides give off branches which join a small ganglion, situated on the first bone of the coccyx, called the ganglion impar, or azygos, 18. This ganglion resembles in its position and function the ganglion of Ribes, serving to connect the inferior extremity of the sympathetic nerve, as does the former ganglion its upper extremity. It gives off a few small branches to the coccyx.432 CHAPTER XII. ANATOMY OF THE FCETUS. The medium weight of a child of the full period, at birth, is seven pounds; and its length nineteen inches. The head is of large size, and lengthened from before back- wards ; the face small. The upper extremities are greatly developed, and the thorax expanded and full. The upper part of the abdomen is large, from the great size of the liver ; the lower part is small and conical. And the lower extremities are very small in proportion to the rest of the body. The external genital organs are very large, and fully developed. Osseous system. — At the earliest term of embryo existence, there is no distinction of structures, the entire body being one homogeneous mass. At a more advanced period, the situation of the bones is distinguishable only by a transparent trace which marks their future position, this is the gelatinous state of ossification. Later than this, the gelatinous trace hardens into cartilage ; the cartila- ginous state. And still later, ossific matter is deposited in the centre of the cartilage ; ossific state. In some instances, Mr. Howship observed that the ge- latinous state passed directly into the ossific state with- out any intermediate cartilaginous transformation. The first point of ossification in the embyro is seen in the clavicle, at the end of the fourth week ; the second occurs at about the same time in the lower jaw. During the sixth week, ossification commences in the femur, humerus, superior maxillary bone, tibia, radius, and ulna. During the seventh and eighth weeks, it appears in the arches of the cervical vertebrae, in the bodies of the dorsal and upper lumbar vertebrae, ribs, expanded portions of the cranial bones, fibula, scapula, ilium, nasal bones, malar, palate, metacarpal, first phalanges, and metatarsal bones.DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. 433 During the ninth and tenth iveeh, it commences in the condyles and basilar process of the occipital bone, in the body of the sphenoid, in the upper sacral vertebrae, and in the external auditory process of the temporal bone. During the eleventh and twelfth iveeks it commences in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in the ischium, and in the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. At about the middle of the fourth month, in the ossicula auditus. During the fifth month, in the pubis, calcaneum, last phalanges of the toes, ethmoid, and sternum. At birth, the first vertebra of the coccyx, the ante- rior arch of the atlas, and the condyloid epiphysis of the femur. At one year after birth, the coracoid process of the scapula, the os magnum, os unciforme, and internal cu- neiform bone. At three years, in the patella, and cuneiform bone of tthe carpus. At four years, in the external and middle cuneiform Ibone. At five years, in the scaphoid of the tarsus, in the t trapezium and os lunare. At eight years, in the scaphoid of the carpus ; at nine tears, in the trapezoides ; and at about the twelfth year, in the pisiform bone. The ossicula auditus are the only bones completely ormed at birth. Vertebrae. — Each vertebra is developed from three irimitive centres — two lateral, for the arches; and one nedian, for the body: the former are the first deposited. To these are added five additional centres, which appear fterwards ; they are, one for each transverse process; ne for the spinous process; and one for the upper and nder surface of the body. The ossification of the arches commences from the pper part of the spinal column, and proceeds gradually ownwards; hence the imperfect development of the •ches occurs in the lumbar region, as in spina bifida, hat of the bodies commences in the middle of the dorsal gion, and spreads upwards and downwards as from a ?ntre, uDEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON 434 Cranium. — The bones of the calvarium commence ossifying long before those of the base ; but at birth the base is solid and firmly ossified, while those of the calva- rium are yet imperfectly developed. The flat bones of the cranium are developed from one or more centres, which radiate in every direction between two layers of membrane, the pericranium on the external surface, and the dura mater within. At birth, the radi- ating edges of the bones have not approached each other, so as to unite by suture, but are simply connected by the two layers of membrane in which they are formed; this permits of their overlapping, during the compression which they undergo in their passage through the pelvis. The open spaces between the bones on the upper part of the skull are called the fontanelles. The anterior fon- tanelle is diamond-shaped, and is bounded by the anterior angles of the two parietal bones, and by the superior angles of the two portions of the frontal. The posterior fontanelle is triangular in form, and is bounded by the posterior angles of the parietal, and by the upper angle of the occipital bone. The Occipital bone is developed from four centres : one for the expanded portion ; one for each condyle ; and one for the basilar process. The Parietal bone is developed from a single centre of ossification. The Temporal bone is developed from five centres: one for the squamous portion; one for the mastoid; one for the petrous portion ; one for the external auditory process; and one for the styloid process. The Frontal bone is developed from two centres. The Sphenoid bone has twelve centres of development: four for the body ; two for the two lesser wings; two for the greater wings ; two for the external pterygoid plates; and two for the sphenoidal spongy bones. The Ethmoid bone has two centres ; one for each lateral half of the bone. Face. — The face is small, forming but a small portion of the entire skull. The rudiments of the teeth are con- tained within the upper and lower jaws. The lower jawr is as yet ununited at the symphisis. The maxillary, frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses are not deve- loped.IN THE FOETUS. 435 u 2 The bones of the face are each developed from a single centre, with the exception of the superior and inferior maxillary bones. The Superior maxillary bone has two centres ; one for the lateral portion, and one for the incisive * bone. The Inferior maxillary bone has two lateral centres, which join at- the symphisis. The Flat bones have many centres of ossification. Thus the sternum is developed from centres varying in number from six to fourteen. It consists of three pieces in the adult. The Scapula has six centres of development: one for the body; one for the coracoid process ; two for the acromion process; one for the posterior border of the bone ; and one for its inferior angle. The Os innominatum has eight centres : three prin- cipal, viz., one for the ilium ; one for the ischium ; and one for the pubis ; and five secondary, one in the cotyloid cavity, at the junction of the three principal portions ; one for the crest of the ilium; one for the tuberosity of the ischium ; one for the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium ; and one for the angle of the pubis : the two latter are often wanting. The Long bones have three principal centres of develop- ment : one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. The latter are the epiphyses of the long bones. The epi- physis corresponding with the course of the nutritious artery, has been shown by Mr. Stanley to be the first developed, as, for instance, the condyloid epiphysis in the ; femur. The processes upon the bone, as the trochanters and tuberosities, have likewise distinct centres, which are called apophyses. The Clavicle has two centres: one principal, for the whole length of the bone ; and a small one, which does not appear until about the sixteenth year, for the anterior part of the sternal extremity. The Humerus is developed from seven centres of ossi- fication : one for the shaft; one for the head of the bone ; * We possess, in our anatomical collection, a very remarkable spe- cimen of this bone in the human adult. It was obtained in the ossuary it Zug, in Switzerland.436 VASCULAR SYSTEM. FCETUS. one for the greater tuberosity ; one for the rounded head of the condyle, that articulates with the radius ; one for the trochlear portion of the inner condyle ; and one for each condyle. The Ulna has four points of ossification : viz. the shaft, upper extremity, lower extremity, and olecranon. The Radius has three centres of development; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. The Femur is developed from five centres: viz. one for the shaft; one for the head ; one for the lower extremity ; and one for each trochanter. The Tibia has three centres : one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. The Fibula has also three : one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Muscular system. — The muscles of the foetus at birth are large and fully formed. They are of a lighter colour than those of the adult, and of a softer texture. Vascular system. — The circulating system presents several peculiarities: Istly, in the heart; there is a com- munication between the two auricles by means of the foramen ovale. 2dly, In the arterial system ; there is a commuuicatiori between the pulmonary artery and de- scending aorta, by means of a large trunk — the ductus arteriosus. 3dly, Also in the arterial system ; the internal iliac arteries, under the name of hypogastric and umbilical, are continued from the foetus to the placenta, to which they return the blood which has circulated in the system of the foetus. 4thly, In the venous system; there is a communication between the umbilical vein and the inferior vena cava, called the ductus venosus. Fcetal circulation. — The pure blood is brought from the placenta by the umbilical vein. The umbilical vein passes through the umbilicus and enters the liver,where it divides into several branches, which may be arranged under three heads:— 1st., two or three which are distri- buted to the left lobe ; 2d., a single branch which com- municates with the portal vein in the transverse fissure, and supplies the right lobe ; and, 3d., a large branch, the ductus venosus, which passes directly backwards and joins the inferior cava. In the inferior cava, the pure blood becomes mixed with that which is returning from theFOETAL CIRCULATION. 437 u 3 lower extremities, and is carried through the right auricle, guided by the Eustachian valve, and through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. From the left auricle, it passes into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle into the aorta, whence it is distributed by means of the carotid and subclavian arteries principally to the head and upper extremities. From the head and upper extremities, the impure blood is returned by the superior vena cava to the right auricle ; from the right auricle, it is propelled into the right ventricle ; and from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery. In the adult, the blood would now be circulated through the lungs and decarbonised ; but in the foetus the lungs are solid, and almost impervious. Only a small quantity of the blood passes therefore into the lungs; the greater part rushes through the ductus ar- teriosus, into the commencement of the descending aorta. Passing along the aorta, a small quantity of the impure blood is distributed by the external iliac arteries to the lower extremities ; the greater portion enters the internal i iliacs, and is carried onwards by the side of the bladder, .and up the anterior wall of the abdomen, and through t the umbilicus, under the name of umbilical arteries, to the placenta, to which they return the blood that has been circulated through the system of the foetus. From a careful consideration of this circulation, we shall perceive—1st. That the pure blood from the placenta is distributed in considerable quantity to the liver, before entering the general circulation. Hence arises the abun- Jant nutrition of that organ, and its enormous size in •omparison with the other viscera. 2dly. That the right auricle is the scene of meeting of i double current; the one coming from the inferior cava, he other from the superior, and that they must cross •ach other in their respective course. How this crossing s effected the theorist will wonder; not so the practical natomist; for a cursory examination of the fcetal heart 'ill show, 1. That the direction of entrance of the two essels is so opposite, that they may discharge their urrents through the same cavity without admixture. . That the inferior cava opens almost directly into the i ft auricle ; and 3. I hat by the aid of the EustachianFCETAL CIRCULATION. 438 valve, the current in the inferior cava will be almost entirely excluded from the right ventricle. 3dly. That the blood which circulates through the arch of the aorta comes directly from the placenta ; and, al- though mixed with the impure blood of the inferior cava, yet is propelled in so great abundance to the head and upper extremities, as to provide for the increased nutri- tion of those important parts, and prepare them, by their greater size and development, for the functions which they are required to perform at' birth. 4thly. That the blood circulating in the descending aorta, is very impure, being obtained principally from the returning current in the superior cava ; a small quantity only being derived from the left ventricle. Yet is it from this impure blood that the nutrition of the lower extre- mities is provided. Hence we are not surprised at their insignificant development at birth; while we admire the providence of nature, that directs the nutrient current in abundance to the organs of sense, of prehension, and of deglutition, so necessary even at the instant of birth to the safety and welfare of the creature. After birth, the foramen ovale becomes gradually closed by a membranous layer, that is developed from the mar- gins of the opening from below upwards, and completely separates the two auricles. The situation of the foramen is seen in the adult heart, upon the septum auricularum, and is called the fossa ovalis: the projecting margin of the opening forms the annulus ovalis. As soon as the lungs have become inflated by the first spasmodic act of inspiration, the blood of the pulmonary artery rushes through its right and left branches into the lungs, to be returned to the left auricle by the pulmonary veins. Thus the pulmonary circulation is established, and the ductus arteriosus contracts, and degenerates to an impervious fibrous cord, serving in after life merely as a bond of union between the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the concavity of the arch of the aorta. The current through the umbilical cord being arrested, the umbilical arteries likewise contract and become im- pervious, and degenerate into the umbilical ligaments of the bladder. The Umbilical vein and ductus venosus, also deprivedMEMBRANA PUPILLARIS. 439 U 4 of their circulating current, become reduced to fibrous cords, the former forming the round ligament of the liver, and the latter a fibrous band which may be traced along the fissure for the ductus venosus to the inferior cava. Nervous system. — The brain is very soft, almost pulpy, and has a reddish tint throughout: the difference between the white and grey substance is not well marked. The nerves are firm and well developed. Organs of sense. — Eye. — The eyeballs are of large size and well developed at birth. The pupil is closed by a vascular membrane called the membranapupillaris, which disappears at about the seventh month. Sometimes it remains permanently, and produces blindness. It con- sists of two thin membranous layers, between which the ciliary arteries are prolonged from the edge of the iris, and form arches by returning to it again, without anastomos- ing with those of the opposite side. Ear. — The ear is remarkable for its early develop- ment: the labyrinth and ossicula auditus are ossified at an early period, and the latter are completely formed be- fore birth. The only parts remaining incomplete are the mastoid cells, and the meatus auditorius. The membrana tympani in the fcetal head is very oblique, occupying almost the basilar surface of the skull; hence probably arises a deficient acuteness in the perception of sound. It is also extremely vascular. Nose. — The sense of smell is very imperfect in the infant, as may be inferred from the small capacity of the nasal fossae, and the non-development of the ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and maxillary sinuses. The Thyroid gland is of large size in the foetus, and | is developed by two lateral halves, which approach and become connected at the middle line so as to form a single cgland. It is doubtful whether it performs any especial function in foetal life. Viscera of the thorax. — The Thymus gland * con- sists “ of a thoracic and a cervical portion on each side. * In the description of this gland we have adhered closely to the his- | ory of it given by the great authority on this subject, Sir Astley ' Cooper, in his beautiful monograph “ On the Anatomy of the Thymus LGland,” 1832.THYMUS GLAND. 440 The former is situated in the anterior mediastinum, and the latter is placed in the neck just above the first bone of the sternum, and behind the sterno-hyoidei and sterno- thyroidei muscles.” It extends upwards from the fourth rib as high as the thyroid gland, resting upon the peri- cardium, and separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by the thoracic fascia in the chest, and lying on each side of the trachea in the neck. Although described usually as a single gland, it consists actually of two lateral, almost symmetrical glands, con- nected with each other by cellular tissue only, and having no structural communication : they may therefore be “ pro- perly called a right and left thymus gland.” Between the second and third month of embryo exist- ence, the thymus is so small as to be only “just percep- tible ; ” and continues gradually increasing with the growth of the foetus until the seventh. At the eighth month it is large; but, during the ninth, it undergoes a sudden change, assumes a greatly increased size, and at birth weighs 240 grains. After birth it continues to en- large until the expiration of the first year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually diminishes, until at puberty it has almost disappeared. The thymus is a conglomerate gland, being composed of lobules disposed in a spiral form around a central cavity. The Jobuies are held together by a firm cellular tissue (“ reticulated”), and the entire gland is inclosed in a coarse cellular capsule. The Lobules are very numerous, and vary in size from that of the head of a pin to a moderate-sized pea. Each lobule contains in its interior a small cavity, or “ secretory cell," and several of these cells open into a small “pouch" which is situated at their base, and leads to the central cavity, the “ reservoir of the thymus." The Reservoir is lined in its interior by a vascular mucous membrane, which is raised into ridges by a layer of ligamentous bands situated beneath it. The ligamentous bands proceed in various directions, and encircle the open mouths of the pouches. This ligamentous layer serves to keep the lobules together, and prevents the injurious dis- tension of the cavity. When either gland is carefully unravelled by removing441 STRUCTURE. VESSELS AND NERVES. U 5 the cellular capsule and vessels, and dissecting away the reticulated cellular tissue, which retains the lobules in contact, the reservoir, from being folded in a serpentine manner upon itself, admits of being drawn out into a length- ened tubular corcl*, around which the lobules are clus- tered in a spiral manner, and resemble knots upon a cord, or a string of beads. The reservoir, pouches, and cells, contain a white fluid “ like chyle,” or ‘Mike cream, but with a small admix- ture of red globules.” In the human foetus this fluid has been found by Sir Astley in too small proportion to be submitted to chemical analysis. But the thymic fluid of the foetal calf, which exists in great abundance, gave the following analytical f results : — one hundred parts of the fluid contained sixteen parts of solid matter, which con- sisted of, ' i| Incipient fibrine, Albumen, Mucus, and muco-extractive matter, Muriate and phosphate of potass, Phosphate of soda, Phosphoric acid, a trace. The Arteries of the thymus gland are derived from the internal mammary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The Veins terminate in the left vena innominata, and some small branches in the thyroid veins. The Nerves are very minute, and are derived chiefly through the internal mammary plexus, from the superior thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic. Sir Astley Cooper has also seen a branch from the junction of the pneumo- gastric and sympathetic pass to the side of the gland. The Lymphatics terminate in the general union of the lymphatic vessels at the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Sir Astley Cooper has injected them only once in the human foetus, but in the calf be finds two large lymphatic ducts, which commence in the upper extremities of the glands, and pass downwards to • See the beautiful plates in Sir Astley Cooper’s work, t This analysis was conducted by Dr. Dowlor of Richmond.FOETAL LUNGS.— HEART. M2 terminate at the junction of the jugular and subclavian vein at each side. These vessels he considers the “ ab- sorbent ducts of the glands ; they are the carriers of the fluid from the thymus into the veins.” Sir Astley Cooper concludes his anatomical description of this gland with the following interesting physiological obsei’vation : — “ As the thymus secretes all the parts of the blood, viz. albumen, fibrine, and particles, is it not probable that the gland is designed to prepare a fluid well fitted for the foetal growth and nourishment from the blood of the mother, before the birth of the fcetus, and consequently before cbyle is formed for food? — and this process con- tinues for a short time after birth, the quantity of fluid secreted from the thymus gradually declining as that of chylification becomes perfectly established.” The Lungs, previously to the act of inspiration, are dense and solid in structure, and of a deep red colour; their specific gravity is greater than water, in which they sink to the bottom, whereas lung which has respired will float upon that fluid. The specific gravity is, however, no test of the real weight of the lung; the respired lung being actually heavier than the fcetal. Thus the weight of the fcetal lung, at about the middle period of uterine life, is to the weight of the body as 1 to 60.* But after respiration, the relative weight of the lung to the entire body is as 1 to 30. The Heart of the fcetus is large in proportion to the size of the body; it is also developed very early, repre- senting at first a simple vessel, and undergoing various degrees of complication until it arrives at the compound character which it presents after birth. The two ventricles form, at one period, a single cavity, which is afterwards divided into two by the septum ventriculorum. The two auricles communicate up to the moment of birth, the septum being incomplete, and leaving a large opening between them, the foramen ovale (foramen of Botal f). * Cruveilhier, Anatomie Descriptive, vol. ii. p. 621. t Leonard Botal, of Piedmont, was the first of the moderns who gave an account of this opening in a work published in 1565. His description is very imperfect. The foramen was well known to Galen.OMPHALO-MESENTERIC VESSELS. 443 u 6 The Ductus arteriosus is another peculiarity of the foetus connected with the heart: it is a communication between the pulmonary artery and the aorta. It dege- nerates into a fibrous cord after birth, from the double cause of a diversion in the current of the blood towards the lungs, and from the pressure of the left bronchus, caused by its distension with air. Viscera of the Abdomen. At an early period of uterine life, and sometimes at the period of birth, as occurred to ourselves in an anen- cephalous foetus, two minute fibrous threads may be seen passing from the umbilicus to the mesenteiy. These are the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. The Omphalo-mesenteric are the first developed vessels of the germ: they ramify upon the vesicula umbilicalis, or yolk-bag, and supply the newly-formed alimentary canal of the embryo. From them, as from a centre, the general circulating system is produced. After the estab- lishment of the placental circulation, they cease to carry blood, and dwindle to the size of mere threads, which may be easily demonstrated in the early periods of uterine life; but are completely removed, except under peculiar circumstances, at a later period. The Appendix vermiformis cceci is long and of large size, and is continued directly from the central part of the cul-de-sac of the ccecum, of which it appears to be a constricted continuation. This is the character of the appendix cceci in the higher quadrumana. The large intestines are filled with a dark green viscous secretion, called meconium (//.-fiKaiv, poppy), from its re- semblance to the inspissated juice of the poppy. The Liver is the first formed organ in the embryo. It is developed from the alimentary canal, and, at about the third week, fills the whole abdomen, and is one half the weight of the entire embryo. At the fourth month the liver is of immense size in proportion to the bulk of the foetus. At birth it is of very large size, and occupies the whole upper part of the abdomen. The left lobe is as large as the right, and the falciform ligament corresponds with the middle line of the body. The liver diminishes444; RENAL CAPSULES. URACHUS. rapidly after birth, probably from the obliteration of the umbilical vein. The Kidneys present a lobulated appearance in the foetus, which is the permanent type amongst some animals, as in the bear. The Re?ial capsules are organs which appear, from their early and considerable development, to belong especially to the economy of the foetus. They are distinctly formed at the second month of embryo life, and are greater in size and weight than the kidneys. At the fourth month they are equalled in bulk by the kidneys, and at birth they are about one-third less than those organs. Viscera of the Pelvis. The Bladder in the foetus is long and conical, and is situated altogether above the upper border of the pubis, which is as yet small and undeveloped. It is, in point of fact, an abdominal viscus. It is connected superiorly w ith a fibrous cord, called the urachus, of which it almost appears an expansion. The Urachus is continued upwards to the umbilicus, and becomes connected with the umbilical cord. In ani- mals it is a pervious duct, and is continuous with one of the membranes of the embryo — the allantois. It has been found pervious in the human foetus, and the urine has been passed through the umbilicus. Calculous con- cretions have also been found in its course. The Uterus, in the early periods of embryo existence, appears to be bifid, from the large size of the Fallopian tubes, and the small development of the body of the organ. At the end of the fourth month, the body assumes a larger bulk, and the bifid appearance is lost. The cervix uteri in the foetus is larger than the body of the organ. The Ovaries are situated, like the testicles, in the lumbar region near to the kidneys, and descend from thence gradually into the pelvis. Organs of Generation. The Testicles in the embryo are situated in the lumbar regions immediately below the kidneys. The spermaticDESCENT OE THE TESTICLE. 44.5 canal, at this period, is occupied by a cellular cord of considerable thickness, called the giibernaculurn testis. The cells of this structure appear to be filled with a gelatinous fluid; and its use would seem to be to keep the spermatic canal properly dilated, and to direct and precede the testicle in its course downwards. The upper extremity of the gubernaculum is attached to the pos- terior border of the testicle, and its lower end is con- nected with the cellular interior of the scrotum. The Descent of the testicle is very gradual and pro- gressive. Between the fifth and sixth month it has reached the lower part of the psoas muscle, and during the seventh it makes its way through the spermatic canal, and is drawn onwards by the gubernaculum. While situated in the lumbar region it is behind the peritoneum, and is covered on its anterior surface and sides by that membrane, which constitutes its proper serous covering, the tunica vaginalis propria. As it de- scends into the scrotum it carries with it its investing peritoneum, and thus forms a pouch of serous membrane, which communicates with the cavity of the peritoneum. This pouch being constricted by the spermatic canal, be- comes gradually closed from above downwards, until it leaves only a small bag which surrounds the testicle, and forms the tunica vaginalis rejlexa. If the pouch do not immediately close, fluid collects within it, and may be pressed upwards into the cavity of the peritoneum ; this is congenital hydrocele. At other times the intestine descends into the pouch, and gives rise to the formation of congenital hernia. See fig. 41.446 CHAPTER XIII. ON THE LIGAMENTS. The mechanism by which the different bones of the ske- leton are connected with each other is called a “joint.” Every bone in the body articulates with one or more bones, and as each differs from the other in its form and in its use, we are prepared to expect a great variety in the forms of joints. They may all, however, be reduced to three classes—1. Synarthrosis; 2. Amphi-arthrosis; and 3. Diarthrosis. Synarthrosis (<rw, together; apQpuan;, articulation,) is that form of joint in which the bones are intimately and immoveahly connected with each other. There are four kinds of synarthrosis. 1. Harmonia (apu, to adapt,) in which the bones merely lie in opposition with each other; as in the palate pro- cesses of the superior maxillary and palate bones with those of the opposite side, and with each other; the ba- silar process of the occipital bone with that of the sphe- noid ; the nasal bones with each other, and with the superior maxillary bones. 2. Schindylesis (erxivdvXvja-K;, a fissure,) in which a pro- jection of one bone is inserted into a groove or fissure in another; as in the articulations of the vomer with the rostrum of the sphenoid, and with the central lamella of the ethmoid bone. 3. Gomphosis (yog<po$, a nail,) a mode of articulation, of which the insertion of the teeth into the alveolar pro- cesses is the only example; their roots being fixed into the alveoli, like nails into a board. 4. Sutura (sutura, a seam,) is the most solid of the four forms of synarthrosis; it is that which is employed for the articulation of the flat bones of the skull with each other. It presents two varieties, sutura serrata, which is illustrated in the serrated union of the frontal with the parietal bones, the parietal bones with eachAMFHI-ARTIIROSIS. — DIARTHROSIS. 447 other, or with the occipital; and sutura squamosa, the scale-like connection of the temporal bone with the parietal. Amphi-arthrosis both; apSpua-K;,) is a form of joint which receives its name from being intermediate be- tween synarthrosis or the fixed form of articulation and the diarthrosis or moveable joint. It is characterised by having an intervening substance between the contiguous ends of the bones, and permitting of only a slight or obscure degree of motion. The instances of this articulation are, the connection between the bodies of the vertebrae, the union of the two first pieces of the sternum and the sacro-iliac and pubic symphises (a-w, together; <pvu, to grow). Diarthrosis (8j«, through; apOpuau;,) is the moveable tform of articulation, and constitutes the greater pro- i portion of the joints of the body. The degree of motion permitted by these articulations has given rise to their division into three groups. 1. Arthrodia, in which the extent of motion is limited; <as in the articulations of both extremities of the clavicle, and ribs; in the articulations of the radius with the ulna; of the fibula with the tibia; of the articular processes of the vertebrae ; and of the bones of the carpus and tarsus with each other, and with the metacarpal bones. 2. Ginglymus (yiyy\vg.o<;, a hinge,) or hinge-joint, is the movement of bones upon each other in two directions only, viz. forwards and backwards; but the degree of mo- tion may be very considerable. The instances of this form of joint are numerous ; they comprehend, the elbow, wrist, metacarpal and phalangeal joints in the upper ex- tremity ; and the knee, ankle, metatarsal and phalangeal oints in the lower extremity. The lower jaw may also je admitted in this category, as partaking more of the iharacter of the hinge-joint than the less moveable ar- hrodia. The form of the ginglymoid joint is somewhat quadri- ateral, and each of its four sides is provided with a 1 iga- nent, which is named from its position, anterior, posterior, ntemal, or external lateral. The lateral ligaments are hick and strong, and are the chief bond of union betweenLIGAMENTS. VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 448 the bones. The anterior and posterior are thin and loose in order to permit of the required extent of movement. 3. Enarthrosis (ev, in ; apOpucru;) is the most extensive in its range of motion of all the moveable joints. From the manner of connection and form of the bones in this articulation, it is called the ball and socket joint. There are three instances in the body, viz. the hip, the shoulder, and the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. The ball and socket joint has a circular form, and, in place of the four distinct ligaments of the ginglymus, is enclosed in a bag of ligamentous fibres, called a capsular ligament. The Joints may, for the convenience of the student, be divided into those of the trunk; those of the upper ex- tremity; and those of the loiver extremity. Ligaments of the Trunk. The Ligaments of the trunk will be considered and described in the following order : — 1. Of the Vertebral column. 2. Of the Atlas, with the Occipital bone. 3. Of the Axis, with the Occipital bone. 4. Of the Atlas, with the Axis. 5. Of the Lower jaw. 6. Of the Ribs, with the Vertebrae. 7. Of the Ribs, with the Sternum, and with each other. 8. Of the Vertebral column, with the Pelvis. 9. Of the Pelvis. 7 1. Articulation of the vertebral column. — The vertebra; are divided into — body, arches, articular, spinous, and transverse processes ; and their ligaments admit of pre- cisely the same arrangement. The ligaments of the bodies are the Anterior common ligament, Posterior common ligament. Of the arches, Ligamenta subflava.INTERVERTEBRAL SUBSTANCE. 449 Of the articular processes, Capsular ligaments, Synovial membranes. Of the spinous processes, Inter-spinous, Supra-spinous. Of the transverse processes, Inter-transverse. The Anterior common ligament is a broad and riband- like band of ligamentous fibres, extending along the front surface of the vertebral column, from the axis to the sacrum. It is intimately connected with the interver- tebral substances, and less closely with the bodies of the vertebrae. It is composed of three layers of fibres which are closely interwoven with each other ; the first layer con- sists of short fibres, which cross the intervertebral sub- stances from each vertebra to the next; the fibres of the second layer pass from each vertebra to the third above or below it; and those of the third, or superficial layer, from each vertebra to the fourth or fifth vertebra above or below it. The Posterior common ligament lies upon the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, and extends from the axis to the sacrum. It is broad opposite the inter- vertebral substances, to which it is closely adherent; and narrow and thick over the bodies of the vertebrae, from which it is separated by the communicating branches between the great spinal veins. The Intervertebral substance is a disc of fibro-cartilage, interposed between each of the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum. It is composed of concentric layers, which diminish in density from the circumference to the centre, where it is soft, pulpy, and elastic. When examined from the exterior, each layer is found to consist of oblique fibres, which alternate in their direction, proceeding from left to right in one layer, and from right to left in the next, and so on for the rest. Arches.— Ihe Ligamenta subfiava are situated be-450 OCCIPITO-ATLOID ARTICULATION. tween the arches of the vertebra? from the axis to the sacrum, and are composed of yellow elastic tissue. They are attached below to the posterior surface of the arches, and are inserted into the anterior surface of the arches of the vertebra above. They meet upon the middle line, but are not continuous with each other at that point. Articular processes The ligaments of the arti- ticular processes of the vertebrae are loose capsules, which surround the articulating surfaces. They are lined on their interior with synovial membrane, which is con- tinued over the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones. Spinous processes. — The Inter-spinous ligaments are thin and membranous, and are extended between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The Supra-spinous are short, thick, ligamentous bands, passing from the apex of one spinous process to the next. They exist, like the inter-spinous, only in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Transverse processes. — The Inter-transverse are thin and membranous: they are found only between the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebras. 2. Articulation of the atlas with the occipital bone. — The ligaments of this articulation are four in number, Anterior occipito-atloid, Posterior occipito-atloid, Two capsular. The Anterior ligament is a thin membranous layer, which is thicker in the middle than at each side. It is attached above to the margin of the occipital foramen, and below to the anterior arch of the atlas. The Posterior ligament is also thin and membranous; it is attached above to the margin of the occipital fora- men, and below to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is closely adherent to the dura mater by its inner surface, and forms a ligamentous arch for the passage of the ver- tebral arteries. The Capsular ligaments are the thin and loose liga- mentous capsules which surround the synovial mem- branes of the articulations, between the condyles of the occipital bone and the superior articular processes of the atlas.ATLO-AXOID ARTICULATION. 451 3. Articulation of the axis with the occipital hone. — The ligaments of this articulation are four in number, Anterior occipito-axoid, Posterior occipito-axoid, Two odontoid. The Anterior ligament is a narrow band of fibres as- cending from the body of the axis to the basilar process, i close to the foramen magnum. The Posterior ligament (apparatus ligamentosus colli) is a broad band, and apparently a continuation of the posterior common ligament: it is attached below to the posterior surface of the body of the axis, and spreads out superiorly to be inserted into the inner surface of the basilar process. It covers in the odontoid process and alar ligaments. The Odontoid ligaments (alar) are two short and thick fasciculi of fibres that pass outwards from the apex of the odontoid process to the sides of the occipital foramen and condyles. 4. Articulation of the atlas with the axis. — The liga- ments of this articulation are five in number : — Anterior atlo-axoid, Posterior atlo-axoid, Two capsular, Transverse. The Anterior ligament is a membranous layer, passing between the lower border of the anterior arch of the atlas, and the body of the axis. The Posterior ligament is a membranous layer, passing between the posterior arch of the atlas, and the arches of the axis. The Capsular ligaments surround the articular pro- cesses of the atlas and axis, and are provided with synovial membranes. The Transverse ligament is a strong ligamentous band, crossing the area of the ring of the atlas from the inner surface of one articular process to the other. It serves to retain the odontoid process of the axis, in connection with the anterior arch of the atlas. As it crosses the odontoid process, some fibres are sent downwards to be4-52 ARTICULATION OF THE LOWER JAW. attached to its root, and others pass upwards to be at- tached to the basilar process of the occipital bone ; hence the ligament has a cross-like appearance, and is sometimes called cruciform. A synovial membrane is situated be- tween the transverse ligament and the odontoid process; and another between that process and the inner surface of the anterior arch of the atlas. 5. Articulation of the lower jaw. — The ligaments of this articulation are three in number ; to which may be added, as appertaining to the mechanism of the joint, an inter-articular fibro-cartiiage, and two synovial mem- branes : — External lateral, Internal lateral, Capsular. Inter-articular fibro-cartiiage, Two synovial membranes. The External lateral ligament is a short band of fibres, passing from the tubercle of the zigoma, to the external surface of the neck of the lower jaw. The Internal lateral ligament is a thin band of liga- mentous fibres, extending between the extremity of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the margin of the dental foramen. It is pierced at its insertion by the mylo- hyoidean nerve. A triangular space is left between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of jaw, in which are situated the internal maxillary artery and auricular nerve, and inferior dental artery and nerve. The Capsular ligament is thin and loose, and completely surrounds the joint. It is lined upon its inner surface by the synovial membranes, and is firmly connected with the inter-articular cartilage, which it serves to keep in its place. The Liter-articular fibro-cartiiage is a thin oval plate, thicker at the edges than in the centre, placed horizontally between the head of the condyle of the lower jaw and the glenoid cavity. It is connected by its circumference with the capsular ligament, and is sometimes incomplete in the centre. It divides the joint into two distinct cavities, one above and the other below the cartilage, which are each453 COSTO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATION. lined by a synovial membrane ; hence the two synovial membranes. Besides the lower jaw, there are several other joints provided with a complete inter-articular fibro-cartilage, and, consequently, with two synovial membranes : they are, th e stemo-clavicular articulation, the acromio-clavicular, and the articulation of the ulna with the cuneiform bone. The inter-articular fibro-cartilages of the knee-joint are partial, and there is but one synovial membrane. The articulations of the heads of the ribs with the vertebrae have two synovial membranes, separated by an inter-articular ligament without fibro-cartilage. Dislocations. — The dislocations of the lower jaw are three — 1. Complete; 2. Partial; and, 3. Subluxation. In Complete dislocation, both condyles are thrown for- wards into the zigomatic fossae. In Partial dislocation, one condyle is thrown forwards into the zigomatic fossa. In Subluxation, the condyle is displaced from its inter- articular fibro-cartilage. 6. Articulation of the ribs with the vertebrce.— The ligaments of these articulations are divisible into two groups— 1st, those connecting the head of the rib with the vertebrce ; and, 2d, those connecting the neck and tubercle of the rib with the transverse processes. They are, 1st Group. Anterior costo-vertebral, or stellate, Capsular, Inter-articular ligament, Two synovial membranes. 2d Group. Anterior costo-transverse. Middle costo-transverse, Posterior costo-transverse. The Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament consists of three short bands of ligamentous fibres that radiate from the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior band passes upwards and is attached to the vertebra above;454 COSTO-STERNAL ARTICULATIONS. the middle fasciculus is attached to the inter-vertebral substance; and the inferior to the vertebra below. The Capsular ligament is a very thin layer of ligament- ous fibres that surrounds the joint in the interval left by the anterior ligament, and protects the synovial mem- branes. The Inter-articular ligament passes between the sharp crest on the head of the rib and the inter-vertebral sub- stance. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are each furnished with a separate synovial membrane. The first, eleventh and twelfth ribs have no inter-articular liga- ment, and consequently but one synovial membrane. The Anterior costo-transverse ligament is a broad band, which ascends from the neck of the rib to the transverse process immediately above it. The Middle costo-transverse ligament is an interosseous ligament, passing directly between the posterior surface of the neck of the rib, and the transverse ligament against which it rests. The Posterior costo-transverse ligament is a small but strong fasciculus, passing from the tubercle on the rib to the apex of the transverse process. The articulation be- tween the tubercle of the rib and the transverse ligament is provided with a small synovial membrane. There is no anterior costo-transverse ligament between the first and second ribs ; and no posterior costo-transverse to the eleventh and twelfth ribs. 7- Articulation of the ribs with the sternum, and with each other.—The ligaments of the costo-sternal articu- lations are, Anterior costo-sternal, Posterior costo-sternal. The Anterior costo-sternal ligament is a thin band of ligamentous fibres that passes in a radiated direction from the extremity of the costal cartilage to the anterior sur- face of the sternum, and intermingles its fibres with those of the ligament of the opposite side. The Posterior costo-sternal ligament is much smaller than the anterior, and consists of only a thin fasciculus of fibres situated on the posterior surface of the articulation.PELVIO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATION. 455 This articulation is provided with a synovial mem- brane. The sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the fifth and ninth costal cartilages, have articulations with each other, and a perfect synovial capsule. They are con- nected by ligamentous fibres which pass from one car- tilage to the other external and internal ligaments. The ninth and tenth are connected at their extremities by ligamentous fibres, but have no synovial membranes. 8 Articulation of the vertebral column with the pelvis. — The last lumbar vertebra is connected with the sacrum by the same ligaments with which the various vertebrae are connected with each other ; viz., the anterior and pos- terior common ligaments, inter-vertebral substance, liga- menta subflava, capsular ligaments, and inter and supra- spinous ligaments. There are only two proper ligaments connecting the vertebral column with the pelvis ; they are, the Lumbo-sacral, Lumbo-iliac. I The Lumbo-sacral ligament is a thick triangular fas- ciculus of ligamentous fibres, connected above with the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, and below with the upper border of the sacrum. The Lumbo-iliac ligament passes from the apex of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the pos- terior part of the crest of the ilium. 9. The Articulations of the pelvis. — The ligaments be- longing to the articulations of the pelvis are divisible into four groups—1st., those connecting the sacrum and ilium ; 2d., those passing between the sacrum and ischium ; 3rd, between the sacrum and coccyx; and 4th., between the two pubic bones. 1st. Between the Sacrum and Ilium. Sacro-iliac anterior, Sacro-iliac posterior, Sacro-iliac interosseous. 2d. Bctiveen the Sacrum and Ischium. Sacro-ischiatic anterior {short). Sacro-ischiatic posterior {long).456 ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 3d. Betiveen the Sacrum and Coccyx. Sacro-coccygean anterior, Sacro-coccygean posterior. 4 th. Between the Ossa Pubis. Anterior pubic, Posterior pubic, Superior pubic, Sub-pubic, Inter-articular fibro-cartilage. 1. The Anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of short ligamentous fibres, passing from bone to bone on the anterior surface of the joint. The Posterior sacro-iliac ligament is composed of stronger fasciculi, passing in the same direction on the posterior aspect of the joint. One of these, longer and larger than the rest, is distinguished by the name of the oblique sacro- iliac ligament. It is attached by one extremity to the posterior superior spine of the ilium ; and by the other, to the posterior surface of the third piece of the sacrum. The Interosseous ligament consists of a number of strong ligamentous fibres, which pass horizontally between the two rough surfaces, on the posterior half of the sacro-iliac articulation. This ligament is the principal bond of con- nection between the sacrum and the ilium. The surfaces of the two bones forming the sacro-iliac articulation, are partly covered by cartilage, and partly rough and connected by the interosseous ligament. The anterior half is coated with cartilage, which is thicker on the sacrum than the ilium. The surface of the cartilage is irregular, and is provided with a very delicate synovial membrane, which cannot be demonstrated in the adult; but is apparent in the young subject, and in the female during pregnancy. 2. Betiveen the sacrum and ischium. — The Anterior sacro-ischiatic ligament is triangular in its form ; it is attached by its apex to the spine of the ischium, and by its broad extremity to the side of the sacrum and coccyx. The Posterior sacro ischiatic ligament, considerably larger and more posterior than the preceding, is narrower in the457 PUBIC LIGAMENTS. middle than at each extremity. It is attached by its smaller end to the inner margin of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, where it forms a falciform process which protects the internal pudic artery and is continuous with the obturator fascia. By its larger extremity it is inserted into the side of the coccyx, sacrum, and posterior inferior spine of the ilium. It forms a part of the lateral boundary of the perineum and is pierced by the coccygeal artery. The two liga- ments convert the sacro-ischiatic notches into foramina. 3. Between the sacrum and coccyx. ulus passing from the anterior surface of the sacrum to he front of the coccyx, The Posterior sacro-coccygean ligament is a thick liga- nentous layer which completes the lower part of the acral canal, and connects the sacrum with the coccyx posteriorly. Between the two bones is a thin disc of soft interverte- bral substance. In females there is frequently a small ynovial membrane. 4. Between the ossa pubis. The Anterior pubic ligament is composed of ligamentous bres, which pass obliquely across the union of the two iones from side to side, and form an interlacement in ront of the symphisis. The Superior pubic ligament is a thick band of fibres :onnecting the angles of the pubic bones superiorly, and illing the inequalities upon the surface of the bones. The Sub-pubic ligament is a thick arch of fibres con- lecting the two bones inferiorly, and forming the upper >oundary of the pubic arch. The Inter articular fibro-cartilage unites the two sur- aces of the pubic bones in the same manner that the ntervertebral substance connects the bodies of the ver- ebrae. It resembles the intervertebral substance also in •eing composed of concentric layers, which are more dense owards the surface than near the centre. It is broad in ront, and narrow behind. A thin synovial membrane is ometimes found in the posterior half of the articulation. The Anterior sacro-coccygean ligament is a thin fasci- The Posterior pubic ligament consists of a few irregular bres uniting the pubic bones posteriorly.1 x458 LIGAMENTS. UPPER EXTREMITY. The Obturator ligament or membrane is not a ligament of articulation, but simply a tendino-fibrous membrane stretched across the obturator foramen. It gives attach- ment by its surfaces to the two obturator muscles; and it leaves a space in the upper part of the foramen for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. Ligaments of the Upper Extremity. The Ligaments of the ripper extremity may be arranged in the order of the articulations between the different bones ; they are, the 1. Sterno-clavicular articulation. 2. Scapulo-clavicular articulation. 3. Ligaments of the scapula. 4. Shoulder joint. 5. Elbow joint. 6. Radio-ulnar articulation. 7. Wrist joint. 8. Articulation between the carpal bones. 9. Carpo-metacarpal articulation. 10. Metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. 11. Articulation of the phalanges. 1. The Sterno-clavicular articulation. The ligaments of this articulation are, Anterior sterno-clavicular, Posterior sterno-clavicular, Interclavicular, Costo-clavicular (rhomboid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage. Two synovial membranes, The Anterior sterno-clavicular ligament is a broad liga- mentous layer, covering the anterior aspect of the articu- lation. The Posterior sterno-clavicular ligament is a broad fas- ciculus covering its posterior surface. The Interclavicular ligament crosses from the extremity of one clavicle to the other, and is closely connected with the upper border of the sternum. The Costo-clavicular ligament (rhomboid') is a thick fasciculus of fibres connecting the sternal extremity ofSCAPULO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS. 459 x 2 the clavicle with the cartilage of the first rib. It is situ- ated obliquely between the rib and the clavicle. It is the rupture of this ligament in dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle, that gives rise to the consequent deformity. The Inter articular jibro-cartilage is circular in form, and thicker at the edges than in the centre. It is at- tached above to the clavicle, and below to the cartilage of the first rib. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are lined by two synovial membranes. Dislocations. — The dislocations of the sternal ex- tremity are two, forwards and backwards. The disloca- tion forwards may be partial. The Dislocation forwards, if complete, is accompanied by the rupture of all the ligaments of the joint. The Dislocation backivards is extremely rare. Sir Astley Cooper records only a single case, which occurred iin consequence of distortion of the spine. 2. The Scapulo-clavicular articulation.—The ligaments 1 of the scapular end of the clavicle are, the Superior acromio-clavicular, Inferior acromio-clavicular, I Coraco-clavicular (trapezoid and conoid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage, Two synovial membranes. The Superior acromio clavicular ligament is a thin .plane of fibres passing between the extremity of the cla- vicle and the acromion, upon the upper surface of the oint. The Inferior acromio-clavicular ligament is a thin plane dtuated upon the under surface. The Coraco-clavicular ligament (trapezoid, conoid) is a -.hick fasciculus of ligamentous fibres passing obliquely jetween the base of the coracoid process and the under surface of the clavicle, and holding the end of the clavicle n firm connection with the scapula. When seen from before it has a quadrilateral form, hence it is named trape- zoid; and examined from behind it has a triangular form, he base being upwards : hence another name, conoid. The Interarticular fibro-cartilage is often indistinct rom having partial connections with the fibro-cartila-460 LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. ginous surfaces of the two bones between which it is placed. The synovial membranes are very delicate. Dislocations.— The scapular end of the clavicle can be dislocated in one direction only, viz. upwards. If the dislocation be severe, the coraco-clavicular ligament is completely ruptured. It is a more frequent accident than dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle. 3. The Proper ligaments of the Scapula are, the Coraco-acromial, Transverse. The Coraco-acromial ligament is a broad and thick band, which is attached to the coracoid and acromial processes of the scapula, and forms a protecting arch over the shoulder joint. The Transverse or coracoid ligament is a narrow fas- ciculus which crosses the notch in the upper border of the scapula, and converts it into a foramen. 4. The Shoulder joint. — The ligaments of the scapulo- humeral articulation are, the Capsular, Coraco-humeral, Glenoid. The Capsular ligament completely encircles the arti- culating head of the scapula and the head of the humerus, and is attached to the neck of each bone. It is thick above, where resistance is most required, and is strength- ened by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles : below it is thin and loose. The capsule is incomplete at the point of con- tact with the tendons of the muscle, so that they obtain upon their inner surface a covering of synovial membrane. The Coraco-humeral ligament is a broad band which descends obliquely from the coracoid process to the neck of the humerus, and serves to strengthen the capsular ligament. The Glenoid ligament is formed by the splitting of the tendon of the long head of the biceps, which divides at its origin into two slips, which are attached around the margin of the glenoid depression, and deepen its cavity. The cavity of the articulation is traversed by the longLIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT 461 x 3 i tendon of the biceps, which is enclosed in a sheath of synovial membrane in its passage through the joint. Dislocations. — The dislocations of the head of the humerus are four in number:— 1. Dowmvards, and inwards; into the axilla. 1|‘2. Fortoards, under the pectoral muscles. 3. Backwards, on the dorsum of the scapula. 4. Partial, when the anterior part of the capsular liga- ment is torn through, and the head of the bone rests against the coracoid process. 5. Elbow joint.—The ligaments of this articulation are four in number: — Anterior, Posterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. The Anterior ligament is a broad and thin membranous layer, descending from the anterior surface of the hume- rus immediately above the joint, to the coronoid process of the ulna and annular ligament. The Posterior ligament is a broad and loose fold passing between the posterior surface of the humerus to the an- terior surface of the base of the olecranon. The Internal lateral ligament is a thick triangular layer, attached above, by its apex, to the internal condyle of the humerus; and below, by its expanded border, to the margin of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, ex- tending from the coronoid process to the olecranon. The External lateral ligament is a strong and narrow band, which descends from the external condyle of the humerus, to be inserted into the annular ligament. The Synovial membrane is extensive, and is reflected from the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones upon the inner surface of the ligaments. Dislocations. — The dislocations occurring at this articulation are Jive in number: — 1. Radius and ulna backwards. 2. Radius and ulna to either side. 3. Ulna backwards. 4. Radius forwards. 5. Radius backwards. This is a very rare accident.RADIO-ULNAR LIGAMENTS. 462 In the two latter dislocations the annular ligament of the head of the radius is ruptured. 6. The Radio-ulnar articulation.—The radius and ulna are firmly held together by ligaments which are connected with both extremities of the bones, and with the shaft; they are, the Annular, Oblique, Interosseous, Anterior inferior, Posterior inferior, Interarticular fibro-cartilage. The Annular ligament (orbicular, coronary') is a firm band that surrounds the head of the radius, and is attached by each end to the extremities of the lesser sigmoid cavity. It is lined on its inner surface by the synovial membrane of the shoulder joint, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of that articulation. The rupture of this ligament permits of the dislocation of the head of the radius. The Oblique ligament is a narrow slip of ligamentous fibres, descending obliquely from the base of the coronoid process of the ulna, to the side of the radius. The Interosseous ligament is a broad and thin plane of ligamentous fibres passing obliquely from the sharp ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is perforated at its lower part for the passage of the anterior interosseous artery. The Anterior inferior ligament is a thin fasciculus of fibres passing transversely between the radius and ulna. The Posterior inferior ligament is also thin and loose, and has the same disposition on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Interarticular or triangular fibro-cartilage acts the part of a ligament between the lower extremities of the radius and ulna. It is attached by its apex to the inner surface of the styloid process of the ulna, and by its base to the edge of the radius. This fibro-cartilage is lined upon its upper surface by a synovial membrane, which forms a duph-463 LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST-JOINT. x 4 cature between the radius and ulna, and is called the membrana sacciformis. By its lower surface it enters into the articulation of the wrist-joint. Dislocations. — The dislocation of these two bones from each other at the upper end, have been indicated in the dislocations occurring at the elbow joint. They are, the displacement of the head of the radius forwards and backwards, and are accompanied with rupture of the an- nular ligament. At the lower end of the two bones the ulna may be separated from the radius by the rupture of the connections of the interarticular fibro-cartilage. 7. The Wrist joint. — The ligaments of the articulation of the wrist are four, the Anterior, Posterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. • The Anterior ligament is a broad membranous layer which passes between the lower part of the radius and ulna, and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. The Posterior ligament, also thin and loose, passes be- tween the posterior surface of the radius, and the posterior surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. The Internal lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform bone. The External lateral ligament is attached by one ex- tremity to the styloid process of the radius, and by the other to the side of the scaphoid bone and trapezium. The Synovial membrane of the wrist joint lines the under surface of the radius and interarticular fibro-car- tilage above, and the first row of bones of the carpus below. Dislocations. — The dislocations at the wrist-joint are of three kinds : — 1. Of both bones backwards or forwards; a rare acci- dent. 2. Of the radius, forwards. 3. Of the ulna, from its connection with the radius.464 LIGAMENTS OF THE CARPUS. 8. Articulation betiveen the Carpal bones. — The liga- ments connecting together the different bones of the carpus, are, the Dorsal, Palmar, Interosseous, Anterior annular. The Dorsal ligaments are ligamentous bands that pass from bone to bone in every direction, upon the dorsal surface of the carpus. The Palmar ligaments are fasciculi of the same kind, and having the same disposition upon the palmar surface. The Interosseous ligaments are situated between the ad- joining bones in each rank: in the upper rank they close the upper part of the spaces between the scaphoid, semi- lunar, and cuneiform bones; in the lower rank they leave spaces through which the synovial membrane is continued to the metacarpal bones. The Anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band which connects the bones of the two sides of the carpus. It is attached by one extremity to the trapezium and scaphoid, and by the other to the unciform process of the unciform and the base of the pisiform bone, and forms an arch over the anterior surface of the carpus, be- neath which the tendons of the long flexors and median nerve pass into the palm of the hand. The Articulation of the pisiform bone with the cunei- form, is provided with a distinct synovial membrane, which is protected by ligamentous fibres which form a kind of capsule around the joint. Synovial membranes. — There are five synovial mem- branes entering into the composition of the articulations of the carpus : — 1. The first is situated between the lower end of the ulnar and the interarticular fibro-cartilage; it is called sacciform, from forming a sacculus between the lateral articulation of the ulna with the radius. 2. The second is situated between the lower surface of the radius and interarticular fibro-cartilage above, and the first rank of bones of the carpus below. 3. The third is the most extensive of the synovialCARPO-METACARPAL LIGAMENTS. 465 x 5 membranes of the wrist; it is situated between the two rows of carpal bones, and passes between the bones of the second rank, to invest the carpal surfaces of the four me- tacarpal bones of the fingers. 4. The fourth is the synovial membrane of the articu- lation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. 5. The fifth is situated between the pisiform and cu- neiform bones. The carpal bones have numerous articulations; — thus the scaphoid articulates with five bones, the semilunar with five; the cuneifoi-m with three, and the pisiform with one;—forming together, in the order of position from the radial to the ulnar side, the cipher 5531. Of the bones of the second row, the trapezium articu- lates with four, the trapezoides with four; the magnum with seven, and the unciform with five; which form, in the same order, the cipher 4475. Dislocations. — The dislocation of a carpal bone from violence is of very rare occurrence. The os magnum and cuneiform bones are sometimes partially dislocated from relaxation of tlieir ligaments : this is more frequent in the former than in the latter bone. 9. The Carpo-metacarpal articulation. — The second row of bones of the carpus articulates with the metacarpal bones of the four fingers by dorsal and palmar ligaments; and the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium by a true capsular ligament. The Dorsal ligaments pass from the carpal to the metacarpal bones, and transversely between the bases of the metacarpal bones. The Palmar ligaments are arranged upon the same plan on the palmar surface. The Synovial membrane is a continuation of the great synovial membrane of the two rows of carpal bones. The Capsular ligament of the thumb is one of the three true capsular ligaments of the skeleton ; the other two being the shoulder joint and hip-joint. The articulation has a proper synovial membrane. The metacarpal bones have a variable number of articu- lations with the carpal bones: the first articulates with the trapezium only; the second with the trapezium, tra-466 LIGAMENTS OF THE PHALANGES. pezoides, and magnum ; the third with the magnum only ; the fourth with the magnum and unciform ; and the fifth with the unciform bone only; the cipher resulting from this arrangement is 13121. Dislocations of these articulations only occur from great violence, as the bursting of a gun, or the crushing of the hand by a great weight. The kind of displacement depends therefore upon the nature of the injury, and not upon the peculiar conformation of the joint. The metacarpal bone of the thumb may be dislocated from the trapezium, and thrown inwards, so as to rest be- tween the trapezium and the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. TO. The Metacarpo-phalangeal articulation.—The liga- ments of this articulation are four ; the Anterior, Two lateral, Transverse. The Anterior ligaments are thick and almost fibro-car- tilaginous, and form part of the articulating surface of the joints. The Latercd ligaments are strong narrow fasciculi, hold- ing the bones together at each side. The Transverse ligaments are strong ligamentous bands passing between the anterior ligaments, and connecting together the heads of the metacarpal bones of the four fingers. The expansion of the extensor tendon over the back of the fingers takes the place of a posterior ligament. Dislocations The observations upon the dislo- cations of the bases of the metacarpal bones, relate also to their heads. The first phalanx of the thumb may be dislocated back- wards, so as to rest with its base upon the metacarpal bone. This accident is frequently rendered compound by the laceration of the integument. 11. The Articulation of the Phalanges. —The phalanges are articulated with each other by three ligaments; Anterior, Two lateral. The Anterior ligament is firm and fibro-cartilaginous.467 LIGAMENTS.— LOWER EXTREMITY. x 6 The Lateral ligaments are very strong; they are the principal bond of connection between the bones. The extensor tendon takes the place and performs the office of a posterior ligament. Dislocations. — The second phalanges are but rarely dislocated from the first. The last phalanges are dislocated from the second backivards ; the base of the last phalanx resting upon the back of the second beneath the extensor tendon. The same dislocation occurs in the thumb. Ligaments oe the Lower Extremity. The Ligaments of the lower extremity, like those of the upper, may be arranged in the order of the joints to which they belong ; they are, the 1. Hip joint. 2. Knee joint. 3. Articulation between the tibia and fibula. 4. Ankle joint. 5. Articulation of the tarsal bones. 6. Tarso-metatarsal articulation. 7. Metatarso-phalangeal articulation. 8. Articulation of the phalanges. 1. Hip joint. — The Ligaments of the ilio-femoral arti- culation are five in number ; they are, the Capsular, Ilio-femoral, Teres, Cotyloid, Transverse. The Capsular ligament is a strong ligamentous capsule attached around the acetabulum and around the neck of the femur, and connecting the two bones firmly together. It is much thicker upon the upper part of the joint, where more resistance is required, than upon the under part. It likewise extends farther upon the neck of the femur on the anterior, than on the posterior side. The Ilio-femoral ligament is an accessory band, which descends from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium to the neck of the femur, and strengthens the an- terior surface of the capsular ligament.r 468 LIGAMENTS OF THE HIP-JOINT. The Ligamentum teres is somewhat triangular in form ; it is attached by its base to the lower part of the cup of the acetabulum, and by a rounded apex into the depres- sion upon the middle of the head of the femur. The Cotyloid ligament is a strong ligamentous cord attached to the margin of the acetabulum, which it serves to deepen. The Transverse ligament is the extension of the coty- loid ligament across the notch in the acetabulum. It forms an arch across the notch, beneath which the arti- cular branches of the internal circumflex and obturator arteries enter the joint. In the bottom of the acetabulum is a deep depression, which is filled with fat covered by synovial membrane, which serves as a kind of elastic cushion to the head of the bone. This was formerly considered as the synovial gland of the joint. The Synovial membrane is extensive; it invests the head of the femur, and is continued around the ligamen- tum teres into the acetabulum, and is thence reflected upon the inner surface of the capsular ligament. Dislocations. — The dislocations of the hip joint are four in number : — 1. Upwards, upon the dorsum of the ilium. 2. Downwards, into the foramen ovale. 3. Backwards and upivai'ds, into the ischiatic notch. 4. Fomvards and upwards, upon the body of the pubis. 2. Knee joint. — The ligaments of the knee joint are thirteen in number ; they are, Anterior or ligamentum patellae, Posterior or ligamentum posticum Winslowii, Internal lateral, Two external lateral, Anterior or external crucial, Posterior or internal crucial. Transverse, Two coronary, Ligamentum mucosum, Ligamenta alaria, Two semilunar fibro-cartilages, Synovial membrane.469 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The Jive first are external to the articulation ; the Jive next are internal to the articulation ; the three remaining are mere folds of mucous membrane, and have no title to the name of ligaments. In addition to the ligaments, there are two fibro-cartilages which are sometimes very erroneously considered among the ligaments ; and a syno- vial membrane, which is still more improperly described by some authors as a capsular ligament. * The Anterior ligament, or ligamentum patellce, is the prolongation of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh downwards to the tubercle of the tibia. It is, therefore, no ligament; and as we have before stated, in our first chapter, that the patella is simply a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the extensor muscles for the defence of the front of the knee joint, it has no title to consideration, either as a ligament of the knee joint or as a ligament of the patella. A small Bursa mucosa is situated between the liga- mentum patellae, near to its insertion, and the front of the tibia. The Posterior ligament, — ligamentum posticum Win- slowii, is a broad band of ligamentous fibres, passing obliquely across the back part of the knee joint, from the posterior part of the inner head of the tibia to the space between the two condyles of the femur. It is formed chiefly by the ascending slip of the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle : see page 39. The Internal lateral ligament is a broad diamond- shaped layer of ligamentous fibres, which descends over the inner side of the joint to be inserted into the head of the tibia. It is crossed at its lower part by the tendons of the inner hamstring, and covers in the anterior slip of the semi-membranosus tendon and the inferior internal articular artery. * Some students are in the habit of getting up seventeen ligaments for the knee-joint, in which number they include the ten true liga- ments with the three false above noticed, the two interarticular fibro- cartilages ! the synovial membrane ! ! with a posterior transverse ligament that has no existence. We would advise them not to abuse either their own judgment or that of their examiners any longer by such downright nonsense.470 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The External lateral ligaments descend from the pro- jection on the external condyle of the femur to the head of the fibula. The posterior is shorter than the anterior, but the division into two is often indistinct. They are covered by the tendon of the biceps, and have passing beneath them the tendon of origin of the popliteus mus- cle, and the inferior external articular artery. The true ligaments within the joint are the crucial, transverse,.and coronary. The Anterior, or external crucial ligament, arises from the depression upon the head of the tibia in front of the spinous process, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur. The Posterior, or internal crucial ligament, arises from the depression upon the head of the tibia, behind the spinous process, and passes upwards and forwards to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur. The Transverse ligament is a small slip of fibres which extends transversely between the two semilunar car- tilages, and connects them anteriorly. The Coronary ligaments are the short fibres by which the convex border of the semilunar cartilages is connected to the head of the tibia, and to the ligaments surrounding the joint. The Semilunar jibro-cartilages are two falciform plates of fibro- cartilage, situated around the margin of the head of the tibia, and serving to deepen the surface of articu- lation for the condyles of the femur. They are thick along their convex border, and thin and sharp along the concave edge. The Internal semilunar jihro-cartilage forms an oval cup for the reception of the internal condyle : it is connected by its convex border to the head of the tibia, and to the internal and posterior ligaments, b}r means of its coronary ligament; and by its two extremities is firmly implanted into the depressions immediately in front and behind the spinous process. The external semilunar jihro-car- tilage bounds a circular fossa for the external condyle: it is connected by its convex border with the head of the tibia, and external and posterior ligaments, by means otLIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE JOINT. 471 its coronary ligament; and by its two extremities is in- serted into the depression between the two projections which constitute the spinous process of the tibia. The two extremities of the external cartilage being inserted into the same spot, form almost a complete circle, and being somewhat broader than the internal, nearly cover the cartilaginous surface of the tibia. The two fibro-cartilages are connected anteriorly by the transverse ligament. The ligamentum mucosum and ligamenta alaria are the false ligaments of the knee joint: they are mere folds of the synovial membrane. The Ligamentum mucosum is a small cylindrical process which crosses from the apex of the patella to the space between the two condyles. It encloses a small quantity of fat; hence it has been called “ adipose ligament.” The Alar ligaments are two fringed folds of the synovial membrane, situated on either side of the patella, to which they give the semblance of wings. The Synovial membrane of the knee joint is the most extensive in the entire skeleton. It invests the carti- laginous surfaces of the condyles of the femur, of the head of the tibia, and of the inner surface of the patella; it covers both surfaces of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and is reflected upon the crucial ligaments, and upon the inner surface of the ligaments which form the circumfer- ence of the joint. On each side of the patella, it lines the tendinous aponeuroses of the vastus internus and vastus externus muscles, and forms a pouch of consi- derable size between the extensor tendon and the front of the femur. It also forms the folds in the interior of the joint, called “ ligamentum mucosum,” and “ligamenta alaria.” When the knee joint becomes distended with fluid from effusion into the synovial cavity, a remarkable swelling is observed upon each side of the patella, particularly upon its inner side. This appearance results from the dis- tension of the two lateral portions of the membrane, which line the inner surface of the aponeurosis of the vasti muscles. A third swelling is also perceived immediately472 T1BI0-FIBULAR ARTICULATION. above the patella, from the filling of the superior pouch of the synovial membrane. The superior pouch of the synovial membrane is sup- ported and raised during the movements of the limb by a small muscle, the subcrureus, which is inserted into it; see page 16. A quantity of oily fat is situated between the tendon of the patella and the synovial membrane, which pushes the membrane inwards towards the joint. Dislocations.— The Patella may be dislocated in three directions : — 1. Outwards, which is the most frequent. 2. Inwards, less frequent; in both these cases there will be rupture of the ligamentum patellae, unless there has been previous weakness of the joint. 3. Upwards, accompanied with rupture of the ligamen- tum patellae. The dislocations of the Knee-joint are four in number: — 1. Tibia forwards. 2. Tibia backwards. 3. Tibia to either side. The dislocations to either side are incomplete. The Semilunar fibro-cartilages may become displaced from relaxation of the ligaments of the knee, and become fixed between the condyles of the femur and the tibia, so as to render the joint immovable. 3. Articulation between the Tibia and Fibula. — The tibia and fibula are held firmly connected by means of seven ligaments : viz. The Anterior supet'ior ligament is a thin fasciculus passing between the anterior surface of the head of the fibula and the inner tuberosity of the tibia. The Posterior superior ligament is disposed in the same manner upon the posterior surface of the articulation. Interosseous superior, Interosseous inferior, Transverse.4-73 LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. The Superior interosseous ligament is a broad layer of ligamentous fibres passing obliquely downwards and out- wards, from the sharp ridge on the tibia, to the inner edge of the fibula. There is an opening in its upper part, through which the anterior tibial artery takes its course forwards to the anterior aspect of the leg. The Inferior interosseous ligament consists of short and strong fibres, which hold the bones firmly together infe- riorly, where they are nearly in contact. The Anterior inferior ligament is a broad fasciculus that passes obliquely across the anterior aspect of the articu- lation of the two bones, at their inferior extremity. The Posterior inferior ligament is a similar band upon the posterior surface of the articulation. The Transverse ligament is a narrow band of ligamen- tous fibres, which passes transversely across the back of the ankle joint, between the two malleoli. 4. Aiikle joint The ligaments of the ankle joint are three in number: — Anterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. The Anterior ligament is a thin membranous layer, passing from the margin of the tibia and fibula, to tbe astragalus in front of the articular surface. The Internal lateral ligament, or deltoid, is a triangular layer of fibres, attached superiorly by its apex to the internal malleolus, and inferiorly by an expanded base to the astragalus and os calcis. The External lateral ligament consists of three strong fasciculi, which proceed from the inner side of the ex- ternal malleolus, and diverge in three different directions. The anterior fasciculus passes forwards, and is attached to the astragalus ; the posterior, backwards, and is con- nected with the astragalus posteriorly; and the middle, longer than the other two, descends to be inserted into the outer side of the os calcis. ( “ It is the strong union of this bone,” says Sir Astley Cooper, with the tarsal bones by means of the external lateral ligaments, “ which leads to its being more fre- quently fractured than dislocated.”TARSAL LIGAMENTS. 4-74< The transverse ligament of the tibia and fibula occupies the place of a posterior ligament. The Synovial membrane invests the cartilaginous sur- faces of the tibia and fibula, sending a duplicature upwards between their lower ends and the upper surface and two sides of the astragalus. It is then reflected upon the anterior and lateral ligaments, and upon the transverse ligament posteriorly. Dislocations. — The dislocations occurring at this joint, are four in number: — 1. Tibia inwards, the foot being turned outwards. This is Pott’s dislocation, and in this case the deltoid ligament is ruptured, and the fibula fractured, at about three inches from its lower extremity. In a more severe case, a portion of the fibular side of the tibia is split off, and the broken end of the fibula rests upon the cartila- ginous surface of the astragalus. 2. Tibia outwards, the foot being turned inwards. In this case, which is the most serious of the accidents occurring to the ankle joint, the inner condyle of the tibia is fractured, the deltoid ligament remaining whole ; the fibula is splintered, and the astragalus is sometimes fractured. The external ligaments generally remain whole ; if the fibula be uninjured, they must be rup- tured, 3. Tibia forwards: this is a partial dislocation ; the tibia is thrown forwards so as to rest partly on the scaphoid bone ; and the fibula is fractured. 4. Both bones backwards: this is extremely rare ; there are not more than one or two cases on record. 5. Articulation of the Tarsal bones. — The ligaments which connect the seven bones of the tarsus to each other are of three kinds,— Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The Dorsal ligame?its are small, flattened fasciculi, which pass from each bone to all the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. The Plantar ligaments have the same disposition on475 PLANTAR LIGAMENTS. ii the plantar surface of the foot; three of them, however, are of large size and have especial names, viz. the Calcaneo-scaphoid, Long calcaneo-cuboid, Short calcaneo-cuboid. The Calcaneo-scaplioid ligament is a broad and dense band of ligament which passes forwards, from the anterior border of the os calcis to the edge of the scaphoid bone. In addition to connecting the os calcis and scaphoid bone, it supports the astragalus, and forms part of the cavity in which its rounded head is received. It is lined upon its upper surface with the synovial membrane of the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation. The Long calcaneo-cuboid, or ligamentum longumplantce, is a long band of ligamentous fibres, which proceeds from the under surface of the os calcis to the rough surface on the under surface of the cuboid bone, its fibres being con- tinued onwards to the bases of the third and fourth meta- tarsal bones. It forms the inferior boundary of a canal in the cuboid bone, through which the tendon of the peroneus longus passes to its insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The Short calcaneo-cuboid, or ligamentum, breve plantce, is situated beneath the long plantar ligament; it is broad and extensive, and ties the under surfaces of the os calcis and cuboid bones firmly together. The Interosseous ligaments are short and strong liga- mentous fibres situated between the adjoining bones, and attached to all their rough surfaces. One of these, the Calcaneo-astragcdoid, is lodged in the groove upon the upper surface of the os calcis, and the lower of the astra- galus. It is large and very strong, and serves to unite the calcis and astragalus solidly together. The Os calcis articulates with two bones ; the external cuneiform with six ; and the five other bones of the tarsus with four each. Dislocations. — The dislocations of these bones re- corded by Sir Astley Cooper are, 1. Dislocation of the astragalus: in this case the cal-476 TARSO-METATARSAL LIGAMENTS. caneo-astragaloid interosseous ligament, must be rup- tured. 2. Dislocation of the five anterior bones of the tarsus from the astragalus and os calcis. 3. Dislocation of the internal cuneiform bone. 6. Tarso-metatarsal articulation. — The ligaments of this articulation are, Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The Dorsal ligaments connect the metatarsal to the tar- sal bones, and the metatarsal bones with each other. The Plantar ligaments have the same disposition on the plantar surface. The Interosseous ligaments are situated between the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes, and also be- tween the base of the second metatarsal bone, and the internal and external cuneiform bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe has a distinct synovial membrane. The metatarsal bone of the second toe is implanted by its base between the internal and external cuneiform bones. This disposition must be recollected in ampu- tation at the tarso-metatarsal articulation. Dislocations. — These bones are not dislocated, ex- cept by extreme violence^ 7. Metatarso-phalangeal articulation. — The ligaments of this articulation, like those of the articulation between the first phalanges and metacarpal bones of the hand, are,— Anterior or plantar, Two lateral, Transverse. The Anterior or plantar ligaments are thick and fibro- cartilaginous, and form part of the articulating surface of the joint. The Lateral ligaments are short and very strong, and situated on each side of the joints. The Transverse ligaments are strong bands, which pass transversely between the anterior ligaments.LIGAMENTS OF THE PHALANGES. 477 The expansion of the extensor tendon supplies the place of a dorsal ligament. Dislocation of the first phalanges from the heads of the metacarpal bones is extremely rare. 8. Articulation of the Phalanges. — The ligaments of the phalanges are the same as those of the fingers, and have the same disposition; they are, therefore, Anterior or plantar, Two lateral. The Dislocations are also the same with those of the fingers, but are less frequent of occurrence.APPENDIX Mammary Glands. The Mamma are situated in the pectoral region ; and are separated from the pectoralis major muscle by a thin layer of superficial fascia. They exist in the male as well as in the female, but in a rudimentary state, unless excited into growth by some peculiar action, such as the loss or atrophy of the testes. Their base is somewhat elliptical, the long diameter corresponding with the direction of the fibres of the pectoralis major muscle. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. Near the centre of the convexity of each mamma is a small pro- jection of the integument, called the nipple, which is surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the female before impregnation, the colour of the areola is a delicate pink; after impregnation it assumes a brownish hue which deepens in colour as pregnancy advances; and after the birth of a child, the brownish tint continues through life. The areola is furnished wdth a considerable number of sebaceous follicles, which secrete a peculiar substance for the protection of the delicate cuticle around the nipple, against the friction of dress. During suckling these follicles are very much increased in size, and have the appearance of small pimples, projecting from the skin. At this period they serve by their increased secretion to defend the nipple and areola from the excoriating action of the saliva of the infant. In Structure, the mamma is a conglomerate gland, and consists of lobes, which are held together by a dense and firm cellular tissue; the lobes are composed of lobules; and the lobules of minute ccecal vesicles, from which the secretion is conveyed by minute ducts. The ducts from a number of these ccecal vesicles unite to form a single duct, and the union of a number of these ducts constitutes an ex- cretory duct. The Excretory ducts converge from the lobules towards the centre of the gland, where they run parallel with each other, without forming any communications, to the extremity of the nipple. Near the base of the nipple they present a number of dilatations (ampullas), which serve the purpose of reservoirs to the secretion. The ducts and ccecal vesicles are lined throughout by a mucous membrane, which is continuous at the apex of the nipple with the intetrument.479 APPENDIX. In the nipple the excretory ducts are surrounded by a tissue analogous to the dartos of the scrotum, to which they owe their power of ereetility. There is no appearance of any structure resembling erectile tissue. Vessels and Nerves The mammae are supplied with arteries from the thoracic branches of the axillary, from the intercostals, and :from the internal mammary. The Lymphatics follow the border of the pectoralis major to the axillary glands. The Nerves are derived from the thoracic, and intercostals. Salivary Glands. The Salivary glands, are the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. The Parotid gland is described at page 164. The Submaxillary gland is situated in the posterior angle of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It rests upon the hyo-glossus and mylo-hoideus muscles, and is covered in by the body of the lower jaw iind by the deep cervical fascia. It is separated from the parotid gland >y the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual by the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Embedded amongst its lobules is the facial artery and the sub- maxillary ganglion. The Excretory duct (Wharton’s,) of the submaxillary gland, passes ibliquely forwards behind the mylo-hyoideus muscle, and resting upon he hyo-glossus to the papilla situated at each side of the fraenum gua?. It is in contact throughout its course with the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. The Sublingual gland is situated beneath the mucous membrane of he floor of the mouth, on each side of the frasnum linguae. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane ; in front, with he depression on each side of the symphisis of the lower jaw; ex- ernally, with the mylo-hyoideus muscles; and internally, with the ingual nerve and genio-hyo-glossus muscle. It pours its secretion into the mouth by seven or eight small ducts, vhich open upon the mucous membrane on each side of the fraenum inguae. Structure. — The salivary are conglomerate glands, and consist if lobes, which are made up of angular lobules, and these of still smaller lobules. The most minute lobule is apparently composed of granules, which ire ccecal vesicles having each a minute duct. These minute ducts unite to form lobular ducts, and the lobular ducts constitute by their jnion a single excretory duct. The ccecal vesicles are connected by cellular tissue, so as to form a ninute lobule; the lobules are held together by a more condensed ;ellular layer; and the larger lobes are enveloped by a dense cellulo- ibrous capsule, which is firmly attached to the deep cervical fascia. Vessels and Nerves.—The parotid gland is supplied with arteriesappendix. 480 by the external carotid ; the submaxillary by the facial; and the sub- lingual by the sublingual branch of the lingual artery. The Nerves• of the parotid gland are derived from the auricular branch of the inferior maxillary nerve; from the auricularis magnus, and from the nervi molles of the external carotid artery. The°sub- maxillary gland is supplied by the branches of the submaxillary gang- lion, and by filaments from the mylo-hyoidean nerve; and the sublingual, from the gustatory nerve. Iliac Arteries. The abdominal aorta divides upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, into the two common iliac arteries. The Common iliac arteries, diverge at an acute angle, and divide opposite the sacro-iliac symphisis into, the internal iliac and external iliac. The right common iliac is rather longer than the left, and forms a more obtuse angle with the termination of the aorta. The average length of the common iliac arteries is about two inches and a half. The Relations of the two arteries is different. The Right common iliac is in relation, in front, with the peritoneum, and is crossed near its bifurcation by the ureter and spermatic vessels and nerves. Behind, it crosses the left common iliac vein, and rests upon its own common iliac vein. The Left common iliac is in relation, in front, with the peritoneum, and is crossed by the inferior mesenteric artery, and near its bifurca- tion by the ureter and by the spermatic vessels and nerves. Behind, it rests upon the left common iliac vein. The Internal iliac artery is described at page 386. The External iliac artery passes obliquely along the brim of the pelvis, from opposite the sacro-iliac symphisis to the femoral arch, where it becomes the femoral artery. Relations. — It is covered by the peritoneum, and is in relation in Jront with the termination of the ileum on the right side, and with the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left. It is crossed on both sides by the ureter; and near its termination by the genito-crural nerve. Externally, it lies along the inner border of the psoas magnus, being separated from it by the iliac fascia. Posteriorly, it is in relation with the external iliac vein, which lies to its inner side near the femoral arch. Branches. —The branches of the external iliac artery are, the Epigastric, Circumflexa ilii. The Epigastric artery arises from the external iliac near to Poupart’s ligament, and passing forwards between the peritoneum and transver- salis fascia, ascends obliquely to the border of the sheath of the rectus. It enters the sheath near to its lower third, and passing upwards behind the rectus muscle, inosculates near the ensiform cartilage with the superior epigastric branches of the internal mammary artery. It lies internally to the internal abdominal ring, and is crossed near to its origin by the vas deferens in the male, and by the round ligament in the female.481 APPENDIX. The Circunijlexa ilii arises from the outer side of the external iliac, nearly opposite the epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely along Poupart’s ligament, and curving around the crest of the ilium inos- culates with the ilio-lumbar artery. It is situated between the peritoneum and iliac fascia, and pierces the iliac and transversalis fasciae, to be distributed to the muscles of the parietes of the abdomen. The Coccygeus rmiscle is a tendino-muscular layer of a triangular form. It arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the side of the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum. It is in imme- diate contact with the lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament.INDEX Abdomen, 321. Abdominal regions, 335. Acini, 357. Alimentary canal, 310. Amphi-arthrosis, 447. Annulus ovalis, 122. Anti-lielix, 296. Anti-tragus, ib. Aorta, abdominal, 367. arch, 130. ascending, 129. descending, 132. Aortic sinuses, 127. Aponeurosis, 4. Appendices epiploic®, 340. Appendix vermiformis cceci, 342. Aqueductus cochleae, 305. Aqueous humour, 288. Arachnoid membrane, 236. Arbor vit®, 255. uterina, 399. Arch, femoral, 27. palmar superficial, 101. Arciform fibres, 260. Areola, 478. Arteries, 4. anastomotica femoralis, 23. magna, 90. angular, 181. aorta, 129. articular azygous, 43. inferior, ib. superior, ib. auricular anterior, 183. posterior, 182. axillary, 87. basilar, 192. 239. brachial, 89. bronchial, 133. buccal, 186. capsular, 361. carotid common, 176. external, 177. internal, 188. carpal ulnar anterior, 100. posterior, ib. radial anterior, 98. posterior, ib. centralis retin®, 290. cerebellar inferior, 193. 239. superior, ib. ib. cerebral anterior, 238. middle, ib. posterior, 193. 239. cervicalis profunda, 194. superficialis, ib. Arteries, ciliary, 216. 290. circumflex anterior, 89. external, 22. ;ilii superficialis,12.21. internal, 22. posterior, 89. coccygeal, 36. cceliac, 350. colica dextra, 349. media, ib. sinistra, 350. comes nervi ischiatici, 36. phrenici, 195. communicans cerebri ante- rior, 238. communicans cerebri poste- rior, ib. coronaria dextra, 128. labii inferioris, 182. superioris, ib. sinistra, 128. ventriculi, 350. . corporis bulbosi, 408. cavernosi, tb. cremasteric, 394. cystic, 351. dental inferior, 186. superior, ib. digitales mantis, 101. pedis, 63. dorsales pollicis, 98. dorsalis lingu®, 181. carpi radialis, 98. ulnaris, 100. pedis, 50. penis, 408. pollicis pedis, 50. scapul®, 88. epigastric, 480. superficial, 12. 21. ethmoidal, 215. facial, 181. femoral, 19. frontal, 215. gastric, 350. gastro-duodenalis, S51. epiploica dextra, ib. sinistra, 352. glut®al, 35. 387. h®morrhoidal external, 408. middle, S87. superior, S5Q. hepatic, S50. 361. iliac, common, 480. external, ib. internal, 386.483 INDEX, Arteries, ilio-colic, 348. lumbar, 387. infra-orbital, 187. innominata, 130. intercostal, 133. anterior, 195. superior, 194. inter-osseous, 100. anterior, ib. posterior, ib. intestini tenuis, 348. ischiatic, 36. 386. lachrymal, 215. laryngeal, 179. lingual, 180. lumbar, 368. malleolar external, 49. internal, ib. mammary internal, 194. masseteric, 186. mastoid, 182. maxillary internal, 184, mediastinal, 195. meningea anterior, 189. inferior, 183. media, 186. parva, ib. posterior, 193. mesenteric, 348. inferior, 349. metatarsea. 51. musculo-phrenic, 195. nasal, 215. obturator, 24. 387. occipital, 182. cesophageal, 133. ophthalmic, 214. palatine inferior, 181. posterior, 187. palpebral, 215. pancreatica magna, 352. pancreaticse parva;, 351. pancreatico-duodenalis, ib. perforantes femoralis, 23. plantaris, 63. pericardiac, 132. 195. perinei superflcialis, 408. peroneal, 58. anterior, 59. posterior, ib. pharyngea ascendens, 187. phrenic, 368. plantar external, 63. internal, ib.' popliteal, 42. princeps cervicis, 183. pollicis, 98. profunda cervicis, 194. femoris, 21. inferior, 90. superior, ib. pterygoid, 186. pterygo-palatine, 187. pudic external, 12. 21. internal, 36. 386. 407 pulmonary, ISO. pyloric, 351. radial, 96. radialis indicis, 98. ranine, 180. Arteries, recurrens inter-osseas, 100. radialis, 98. tibialis, 49. ulnaris, anterior, 100. ulnaris, posterior, ib. renal, 368. sacra media, 369. lateralis, 387. scapular posterior, 194 sigmoid, 350. spermatic, 368. spheno-palatine, 187. spinalis anterior, 193. 239. posterior, ib. ib. splenic, 351. stylo-mastoid, 182. subclavian, 190. sublingual, 181. submental, ib. subscapuiar, 88. superficialis vote, 98. supra-orbital, 215. renal, 368. scapular, 194. sural, 43. tarsea, 51. temporales profunda;, 186. temporal, 183. anterior, ib. media, ib. posterior, ib. thoracica acromialis, 88. axillaris, ib. inferior, ib. superior, ib. thyroidea inferior v. ascend- ens, 193. superior v. descend- ens, 179. tibialis antica, 47. postica, 57. transversalis colli, 194. faciei, 183. humeri, 194. perinei, 408. tympanic, 186. 189. ulnar, 98. umbilical, 386. uterine, 400. vasa brevia, 352. vertebral, 192. vesical superior, 386. . vidian, 187. Articulations, 440. Aryttenoid cartilages, 313. glands, 318. . Auditory tube, 297. Auricles of the heart, 119. 126. Auriculo-ventricular openings, 123. 127. Axilla, o6. aase ot the brain, 256. Bladder, 377. Bones, 5. Brain, 242. Bronchial tubes, 116. Bronchi, 131. 319. Brunner’s glands, 345. Bull; of the corpus spongiosum, 389. Bulbous part of the urethra, 383.INDEX, 484 Bulbus olfactorius, 263. Calamus scriptorius, 253. Calices, 371. Canal of Fontana, 285. Petit, 289. Canthi, 291. Capillaries, 4. Capsule of Glisson, 355. 357. Capsules supra-renal, 370. 444. Caput gallinaginis, 382. Cardia, 341. Cartilages : inter-articular of the clavicle, 459. inter-articular of the jaw, 452. inter-articular of the wrist, 462 semi-lunar, 470. Caruncula lachrymalis, 293. Caruncul® myrtiformes, 397. Casserian ganglion, 217. 268. Cauda equina, 273. Centrum ovale minus, 243. majus, ib. Cerebellum, 254. Cerebro-spinal axis, 240. Cerebrum, 242. Cervical ganglia, 202. 424. Chord® tendine®, 123. vocales, 314. Willisii, 233. Choroid membrane, 283. plexus, 246. Cilia, 292. • Ciliary ligament, 284. processes, 285. Circle of Willis, 240. Circulation, adult, 119. foetal, 436. Clitoris, 397. Cochlea, 305. Coecum, 342. Colon, ib. Column® came®, 125. Commissures, 261. anterior, 252. great, 261. soft, 252. posterior, ib. Conarium, 252. Concha, 296. Coni vasculosi, 392. Conjunctiva, 293. . _ Cofiuih, 2. 309. Cornea, 282. Cornicula laryngis, 313. Cornu ammonis, 248. Cornua ventriculorum, 247. Corona glandis, 389. Corpora albican tia, 257- Arantii, 125. 127. cavernosa, 388. olivaria, 259. pyramidalia, 258. quadrigemina, 252. restiformia, 259. striata, 245. Corpus callosum, 244. fimbriatum, 247. 250. Corpus geniculatum externum, 251. internum, ib. Highmorianum, 391. luteum, 401. rhomboideum, 255. spongiosum, 389. striatum, 245. Cowper’s glands, 383. 412. Cribriform fascia, 14. 29. Cricoid cartilage, 313. Crico-thyroid membrane, 314. Crura cerebelli, 256, cerebri, 258. penis, 388. Crystalline lens, 289. Cuticle, 2. 310. Cutis, 2. 308. Cystic duct, 356. Dartos, 390. Deep fascia, 3. Dermis, 2. Detrusor urin®, 380. Diaphragm, 372. Diarthrosis, 447. Dorsi-spinal veins, 273. Ductus ad nasum, 295. arteriosus, 437. 443. communis choledochus, 352. cysticus, 356. ejaculatorius, 382. 384. hepaticus, 360. lymphaticus, 135. pancreaticus, 366. prostaticus, 3S2. tboracicus, 134. venosus, 436. Duodenum, 341. Dura mater, 230. Ear, 295. Encephalon, 240. Epidermis, 2. 310. Epididymis, 392. Epiglottic gland, 318. Epiglottis, 314. Epithelium, 344. Eustachian tube, 300. valve, 122. Eye, 280. brows, 291. globe, 280. lashes, 292. lids, 291. Falciform process, 13. Fallopian tubes, 400. Falx cerebelli, 232. cerebri, 231. Fascia cervical, deep, 159. superficial, 158. cribriform, 14. 29. deep, 3. dentata, 248. inter-columnar, S24. lata, 13. lumbar, 327. palmar, 94. pelvic, 385. perineal, deep, 403. 410.INDEX 485 Fascia perineal, superficial, 405. plantar, 59. propria, 29. S91. spermatica, 324. S90. superficial, 3. thoracic, 114. transversalis, 330. Fauces, 227. Femoral arch, 26. hernia, ib. ring, 29. Fenestra ovalis, 300. rotunda, ib. Fimbria, Fallopian, 400. Fissure of Bichat, 245. Sylvius, 242. 257. Flocculus, 255. Fcetal circulation, 436. Follicles of Lieberkuhn, 345. Foramen caecum, 307. commune anterius, 252. posterius, ib. of Monro, 246. 250. of Soemmering, 287. of Winslow, 339. ovale, 436. 442. saphenum, 13. 1 Foramina Thebesii, 121. . Fornix, 249. 1 Fossa innominata, 296. navicularis urethra, 383. vagina, 396. ovalis, 122. scaphoides, 296. f Fourchette, 396. t Frana epiglottidis, 306. ; Franum lingua, ib. praputii, 389. (Gall-bladder, 355. Ganglia, cervical, 202. 424. lumbar, 430. sacral, ib. semi-lunar, 367. thoracic, 136. 428. ' Ganglion of Andersch, 197. azygos, 431. cardiac, 137. 426. carotid, 423. Gasserian, 217. ciliary, 214. 418. lenticular, 214. 418. Meckel's, 222. 420. naso-palatine, 223.419. of Ribes, 221, 418. otic, 222. 422. spheno-palatine, 222. 420. submaxillary, 223. 422. thyroid, 425. vertebral, ib. ■ Gimbcrnat’s ligament, 323. • Gland, epiglottic, 318. lachrymal, 293. parotid, 164. pineal, 252 pituitary. 257. prostate, 383. thymus, 439. thyroid, 320. Glands, arytenoid, 318. Glands, Brunner’s, 345. Cowper’s, 383. 412. inguinal, 12. lymphatic, 5. mammary, 478. Meibomian, 292. Pacchionian, 231. Peyer’s, 345. salivary, 479. solitary, 345. sublingual, 479. submaxillary, ib. Glandulae odoriferae, 389. Pacchioni, 231. Tysoni, 389. Gians clitoridis, 397. penis, 389. Glisson’s capsule, 355. 357. Globus major epididymis, 392. minor epididymis, ib. Glottis, 317. Gomphosis, 446. Gubernaculum testis, 445. Guthrie’s muscle, 410. Hair, 311. Harmonia, 446. Heart, 119. Helix, 296. Hepatic ducts, 360. Hernia, .329. encysted, 334. femoral, 26. inguinal, 329. umbilical, ib. ventral, ib. Hilus lienis, 365. Hippocampus major, 248. minor, 247. Humours of the eye, 288. Hyaloid membrane, 289. Hymen, 397. Ilio-colic valve, 343. Ileum, 342. Incus, 298. Infundibula, 371. Infundibulum, 257. Integument, 2. Inter-articular cartilage, clavicle, 459. jaw, 452. — , , , „ wrist, 462. Intestinal canal, 341. Iris, 285. Iter ad infundibulum, 252. a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, ib. Jacob’s membrane, 286. Jejunum, 342. Joint, ankle, 473. elbow, 461. hip, 467. lower jaw, 452. knee, 468. shoulder, 460. wrist, 463. Kidneys, 370. Labia majora, 396. minora, ib. y 3486 INDEX, Labyrinth, 303. Lachrymal ducts, 294. gland, 293. puncta, 294. sac, 295. Lacteals, 349. Lacunae, 383. Lamina cribrosa, 282. spiralis, 305. Larynx, 312. Lenticular ganglion, 214. 418. Ligaments, 6. 446. acromio-clavicular superior, 459. inferior, ib. alar, 471. ankle, of the, 473. annular ankle, anterior, 46. radius, 462. wrist, anterior, 94. posterior, ib. arcuatum externum, 372. internum, ib. atlo-axoid anterior, 451. posterior, ib. breve plant®, 475. calcaneo-astragaloid, 475. cuboid, long, 475. short, ib. scaphoid, 475. capsular of the hip, 467. jaw, 452. rib, 454. shoulder, 460. thumb, 465. carpus dorsal, 464. palmar, ib. common anterior, 549. posterior, ib. conoid, 459. coracoid, 460. coraco-acromial, ib. clavicular, 459. humeral, 460. coronary, 462. of the knee, 470. costo-clavicular, 458. coracoid, 159. sternal anterior, 454. posterior, ib. transverse anterior, ib. middle, ib. posterior, ib. vertebral anterior,.453. cotyloid, 468. crucial, 470. cruciform, 452. deltoid, 473. dorsal of the carpus, 464. tarsus, 474. elbow, of the, 461. glenoid, 460. hip-joint, of the, 467. ilio-femoral, 467. inter-articular of the ribs, 454. inter-clavicular, 458. osseous, astragalo-calca- neoid, 475. peroneo-tibial, 473. peroneo-tibial inferior, ib. Ligaments, inter-osseous, radio-ulnar, 462. inter-spinous, 450. inter-transverse, ib. inter-vertebral, 549. knee, of the, 468. lateral of the ankle, 473. elbow, 461. jaw, 452. knee, 469. phalanges, foot, 477. phalanges, hand, 466. wrist, 463. longum plant®, 475. lumbo-iliac, 455. sacral, ib. ' metacarpus dorsal, 465. palmar, ib. metatarsus phalangeal, 476. mucosum, 471. oblique, 462. obturator, 458. occipito-atloid anterior, 450. posterior, ib. axoid anterior, 451. posterior, ib. odontoid, 451. of the liver, 354. orbicular, 462. palmar of the carpus, 464. patella, 469. peroneo-tibial anterior superior, 472. posterior superior, ib. anterior inferior, 473. posterior inferior, ib. phalanges, of the foot, 477. hand, 466. plantar, long, 475. short, ib. posticum Winslowii, 469. pterygo-maxillary, 154. pubic anterior, 457. posterior, ib. superior, ib. rhomboid, 458.. rotundum, hep’atis, 354. sacro-coccygean anterior, 457. posterior, ib. sacro-iliac anterior, 456. oblique, ib. posterior, ib. ischiatic anterior, 456. posterior, ib. stellate, 453. sterno-clavicular anterior, 458. posterior, ib. stylo-maxillary, 159. sub-flava, 549." sub-pubic, 457. supra-spinous, 450. suspcnsorium hepatis, 354. penis, 589. tarsal dorsal, 474. plantar, ib. tarso-metatarsal, 475 teres, 468.INDEX, 487 Ligaments, transverse, of the acetabu. lum, 468. of the ankle, 473. of the atlas, 451. of the metacarpus, 466. of the metatarsus, 476. of the scapula, 460. of the semilunar carti- lages, 470. trapezoid, 459. wrist, of the, 463. Limbus luteus, 287. Linea alba, 322. Line® transverse, ib. semi-lunares, ib. Linguetta laminosa, 255. Liquor Cotunuii, 304. Morgagni, 289. of Scarpa,305. Lithotomy, 412. Liver, 352. Lobules of the liver, 356. Lobuli testis, 392. Lobulus auris, 296. caudatus, 353. pneumo-gastricus, 255. quadratus, 353. Spigelii, ib. Locus niger, 243. perforatus, 258. Lungs, 115. Lunula, 311. Lymphatic vessels, 5. Lyra, 250. Malleus, 298. Mastoid cells, 300. Mammae, 478. Mammary gland, ib. Meatus auditorius externus, 297. urinarius, female, 397. male, 389. Meatuses of the nares, 278. Meckel’s ganglion, 222. 420. Mediastinum anterior, 117. middle, 118. posterior, 132. testis, 391. Medulla oblongata, 258. Meibomian glands, 292. Membrana dentata, 269. pigmenti, 284. pupillaris, 439. sacciformis, 463. tympani, 297. Membrane, choroid, 283. hyaloid, 289. Jacob’s, 286. Membranous part of the urethra, 382. Mesenteric glands, 349. Mesentery, 340. Meso-cola, ib. Meso-rectum, ib. Mitral valves, 127. Modiolus, 305. Mons Veneris, 396. Motor tract, 265. Mucous membrane, structure, 343. MlI9Ct.ES, 4. abduct or minimi digiti, 110. Muscles, abductor minimi pedis, 61. indicis, 110. pollicis, 109. pedis, 61. accelerator urin®, 406. accessorius, 61. adductor brevis, 18. minimi digiti, 110. longus, 17. magnus, 18. pollicis, 109. pedis, 62. anconeus, 106. anti-tragicus, 296. arytenoideus, 315. aryteno-epiglottideus, inferior, 316. aryteno-epiglottideus, superior, ib. attollens aurem, 153. attrahens aurem, ib. azygos uvula', 227. biceps flexor cruris, 38. cubiti, 81. biventer cervicis, 142. brachialis anticus, 81. buccinator, 154. cervicalis ascendens, 141. circumflexus palati, 227. coccygeus, 481. complexus, 141. compressor nasi, 151. urethras, 410. vena dorsalis penis, 409. constrictor inferior, 224. isthmi faucium, 228. medius, 224. superior, 225. vagina;, 415. coraco-brachialis, 81. corrugator supercilii, 150. cremaster, 326. crico-arytsenoideus lateralis, 315. posticus, ib. thyroideus, 289. crureus, 16. deltoid, 76. depressor anguli oris, 152. labii inferioris, ib. labii superioris al®- que nasi, ib. detrusor urin®, 380. diaphragm, 372. digastricus, 161 erector clitoridis, 415. penis, 406. spin®, 140. extensor carpi radialis brevior, 105. carpi radialis longior, ib. carpi ulnaris, 106. digiti minimi, ib. digitorum brevis. 19. digitorutn communis, 105. digitorum longus, 46.488 INDEX, Muscles, extensor indicis, 107. ossis metacarpi pollicis, ib. primi internodii polli- cis, ib. pollicis proprius, 47. secundi internodii pol- licis, ib. flexor accessorius, 61. brevis digiti minimi, 110. brevis digiti minimi pedis, 62 carpi radialis, 95. ulnaris, ib. digitorum brevis, 61. profundus, 95. sublimis, ib. longus digitorum pedis, 56. longus pollicis pedis, ib. ossis metacarpi dig. min., 110. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 109. pollicis brevis, ib. pedis, 62. longus, 96. gastrocnemius, 55. gemellus inferior, 34. superior, 33. genio-hyo-glossus, 162. hyoideus, ib. gluteus maximus, 32. medius, ib. minimus, ib. gracilis, 19. helicis major, 296. minor, ib. hyo-glossus, 163. iliacus, 17. 374. indicator, 107. infra-spinatus, 84. inter-costal external, 113. internal, ib. inter-ossei manus, 110. pedis dorsales, 50. plantares, 64. inter-spinales, 143. inter-transversales, ib. latissimus dorsi, 82. laxator tympani major, 299. minor, ib. levator anguli oris, 152. scapulae, 83. ani, 385. glandula; thyroideas, 320. labii inferioris, 152. superioris, ib. superioris alreque nasi, ib. palati, 227. palpebras, 208. levatores costarum, 143, lingualis, 163. longissimus dorsi, 141. longus colli, 229. lumbricales manOs, 110. rdis, 61. . multifidus spinte, 143. Muscles, mylo-hyoideus, 162. obliquus abdominis externus, 323. abdominis internus, 325. capitis inferior, 142. superior, 143 oculi inferior, 209. superior, ib. obturator externus, 18. internus, 33. occipito-frontalis, 149. omo-hyoideus, 161. opponens digiti minimi, 110. pollicis, 109. orbicularis oris, 151. palpebrarum, 150. palato-glossus, 163. 228. pharyngeus, 225. 228. palmaris brevis, 110. longus, 95. pectineus, 17. pectoralis major, 73. minor, 75. peroneus brevis, 52. longus, ib. tertius, 47. plantaris, 55. platysma myoides, 158. popliteus, 56. pronator quadratus, 96. radii teres, 94. psoas magnus, 17. 373. parvus, 373. pterygoideus externus, 154. internus, 155. pyramidalis abdominis, 328. nasi, 151. pyriformis, 33. quadratus femoris, 34. lumborum, 374. rectus abdominis, 328. capitis anticus major, 228. minor, ib. lateralis, 142. posticus major, ib. minor, ib. femoris, 15. oculi externus, 209. inferior, ib. internus, ib. superior, ib. retrahens aurern, 15S. rhomboideus major, 83. minor, ib. risorius Santorini, 158. sacro-lumbalis, 141. sartorius, 15. scalenus anticus, 229. posticus, ib. semi-spinalis colli, 142. dorsi, ib. semi-membranosus, 39. semi-tendinosus, ib. serratus magnus,75. posticus inferior, 140. superior, ib. soleus, 55. sphincter ani externus, 406. internus, ib. vesicas, 380.INDEX 489 Muscles,spinalis dorsi, 141. splenius capitis, 140. colli, ib. stapedius, 299. sterno-cleido-niastoideus, 159. hyoideus, 1G0. thyroideus, 161. stylo-glossus, 163. hyoideus, 162. pharyngeus, 225. subclavius, 75. subcrureus, 16. subscapularis, 76. supinator radii brevis, 107. . longus, 105. supra-spinales, 143. supra-spinatus, 84. temporalis, 154. tensor palati, 227. tarsi, 151. tympani, 299. vagina; femoris, 15. teres major, 84. minor, ib. thyro-arytenoideus, 315. epiglottideus, 316. hyoideus, 161. tibialis anticus, 46. posticus, 57. trachelo-raastoideus, 141. tragicus, 296. transversalis abdominis, 327. colli, 141. transversui auricula', 297. pedis, 62. perinei, 406. trapezius, 82. triangularis sterni, 114. triceps extensor cruris, 16. cubiti, 84. vastus externus, 16. internus, ib. zygomaticus major, 152. minor, ib. Musculi pectinati, 122. Nails, 311. Nasal duct, 295. fossae, 277. Vfpvpq ’abducentcs, 214. 266. accessorius, 201. 267. acromiales, 205. auditory, 264. 306. auricularis anterior, 221. magnus, 170. 205. posterior, 166. buccal, 219. cardiac, 426. cardiacus inferior, 204. magnus, ib. 426. cardiacus mcdius, ib. ib. superior, 203. ib. cervical, 204.273. cervico-facial, 167. chorda tympani, 166. 223. 421. ciliary, 418. circumflex, 92. claviculares, 205. communicans poplitei, 44. Nerves, communicans peronei, 44. noni, 205. cruralis, 25. cutaneus externus brachialis, 78. 91. externus femoralis, 12. 24. 375. internus brachialis, 77. 92. posterior femoris, 37. spiralis, 78. dental anterior, 218. inferior, 220. posterior, 218. descendens noni, 202. • digastric, 166. dorsales, 273. eighth pair, 196. 267. facial, 165.267. femoral, 25. fifth pair, 216. 267. first pair, 263. fourth pair, 213. 266. ftontal, 212. genito-crural, 376. glutei inferiores, 37. glosso-pharyngeal, 197. 267. gluteal, 37. 387. gustatory, 220. hypo-glossal, 201. 266. ilio-scrotal, 375. inferior maxillary, 218. infra-trochlear, 213. inguino-cutaneous, 375. intercostal, 137. intercosto-humeral, 77. inter-osseus anticus, 101. posticus, 103. ischiaticus major, 38. 40. 388. * minor, 37. 388. lachrymal, 212. laryngeal inferior, 200. superior, 199. lingual, 201. 266. lumbales, 273. lumbo-sacral, 376. masseteric, 219. maxillaris inferior, 218. superior, 217. median, 92.101. molles, 203. motor oculi, 213.266. musculo-cutaneus, arm, 91. leg, 53.875. musculo-spiral, 92.103. mylo-hyoid, 220. nasal, 213. obturator, 26. 376. occipitalis minor, 170. 205. olfactory, 263. ophthalmic, 211. optic, 263. orbital, 217. palatine posterior, 222.420. anterior, 223. 420. palmaris cutaneus, 102. path eticus, 213. 266. perforans Casserii, 91. peroneal, 44.53. pharyngeal, 199.Index:, 490 Nerves, phrenic, 205. plantar external, 64. internal, ib. pneumo-gastric, 135.198.267. popliteal, 44. portio dura, 165. mollis, 264. 306. pterygoid, 219. pudic internal, 38. 388. 409. radial, 103. recurrent, 200. respiratory external, 91. jsaphenus externus, 52. 54. major, 25.45. minor, ib. second pair, 263. sixth pair, 214. spinal accessory, 201. 267. splanchnicus major, 137. 429. minor, ib. ib. stylo-hyoid, 166. subscapular, 91. superficialis colli, 169. 205. cordis, 203.426. superior maxillary, 217. supra-orbital, 212, scapular, 91. trochlear, 212. sympatheticus major, 202, 417. temporales profundi, 219. temporo-facial, 167. malar, 217. third pair, 213. 266. thoracic short, 91 long, ib. tibialis anticus, 49. 53. posticus, 59. trifacial, 216. 267 trigeminus, ib. ib. trochlear, 213. 266. tympanic, 198. ulnar, 92. 102. vagus, 135. 198. 267. Vidian, 223. 420. Nipple, +78. Nose, 275. Nymphte, 396. (Esophagus, 341. Omentum, great, 339. lesser, 338. splenic, 340. Omphalo-mesenteric vessels, 443. Optic commissure, 263. thalami, 246. Orbiculare os, 293. Orbit, 206. Ossicula auditds, 298. Ossification, 432. Ostium abdominale, 400. uterinum, ib. Ovaries, 400. Ovula Graafiana, 401. Ovula of Naboth, 399. Palpebra:, 291. Pancreas, 366. Papilla:, 306. calyciformes, ib. circumvallata:, ib. Papillae, conicre, 307. filiformes, ib. fungiformes, ib. of the skin, 309. Parotid gland, 164. Penis, 388. Pericardium, 118. Perineum, 402. Peritoneum, 336. Perspiratory ducts, 312. Pes accessorius, 248. anserinus, 165. hippocampi, 248. Peyer’s glands, 345. Pharynx, 224. Pores, 312. Pia mater, 237. Pigmentum nigrum, 284. Pineal gland, 252. Pinna, 295. Pituitary gland, 257. Pleura costalis, 116. pulmonalis, ib. Plexus, aortic, 430. axillary, 90. cardiac, 137. 427. carotid, 203. 423. cervical anterior, 204. posterior, 206. choroid, 246. cceliac, 429. coronary anterior, 137. 428. posterior, 138. 428. hepatic, 355. hypogastric, 367. 430. lumbar, 375. mesenteric inferior, 350. superior, 349. ' oesophageal, 136. pharyngeal, 199. pulmonary anterior, 136. posterior, ib. renal, 429. sacral, 387. solar, 429. spermatic, 394. splenic, 352. submaxillary, 169. vertebral, 426. Plica semi-lunaris, 293. Plica: longitudinal, 343. Pomum Adami, 31S. Pons Tarini, 258. Varolii, ib, Portio dura, 165. 267. mollis, 264. Porus opticus, 282. Poupart’s ligament, 323. Prepuce, S89. Processus 6 cerebello ad testes, 256. vermiformis inferior, 255. superior, ib. Promontory, 301. Prostate gland, 383. Prostatic part of the urethra, 382. Pulmonary artery, 130. plexuses, 136. sinuses, 125. veins, 131. Puncta lachrymalia, 294,491 INDEX F Pupil, 285. -Pylorus, 341. ' Pyramid, 301. F3apht5 corporis callosi, 245. perinei, 413. iETeceptaculum chyli, 134. Riectum, 343. RIcspiratory nerves, 266. tract, 259. lllenal capsules, 370. ftete mucosum, 2. 310. testis, 392. , R letina, 286. * R lima glottidis, 317. E ting, external abdominal, 323. femoral, 29. internal abdominal, 330. I F tugte, 343. l !a acculus laryngis, 317. proprius, 304. ipbenous opening, 13. vein, internal, 12. external, 54. t cala tympani, 305. vestibuli, ib. t chindylesis, 446. jhneiderian membrane, 278. ~ blerotic coat, 281. crotum, 390. . ebaceous follicles, 312. e mnicircular canals, 303. ‘ jmilunar cartilages, 470. valves, 125. 127. ■\ ptum auricularum, 122. lucidum, 249. pectiniforme, 389. scroti, 390. ventriculorum, 126. 1 reath of the rectus, 328. . gmoid valves, 125. 127. i aus aortic, 127. basilar, 235. cavernous, 234. circular, 235. fourth, 234. lateral, tb. longitudinal inferior,234. superior, 233. occipital anterior, 235. posterior, 234. petrosal inferior, 235. superior, ib. pocularis, 382. pulmonary, 125. rectus or straight, 234. transverse, 235. in, 308. c cia parotidis, 165. ft palate, 226. e ermatic canal, 330. cord, 394. heno-palatine ganglion, 222.420. inal cord, 268. nerves, 272. veins, 273 een, 365. ingy part of the urethra, 383. 1 pes, 298. Stenon’s duct, 165. Stomach, 341. Sub-arachnoidean fluid, 236.269. _ space, 269. Sublingual gland, 479. Submaxillary gland, ib. Substantia perforata, 257. Sulcus longitudinalis hepatis, 353. transversus, ib. Supercilia, 291. Superficial fascia, 3. Supra-renal capsules, 370. 444. Suspensory ligament of the liver, 354. o •. penis, 389. Sympathetic nerve, 202.417 Synarthrosis, 446. Tenia semicircularis, 246. Tapetum, 284. Tarini, 246. Tarsal cartilages, 291. Tendo Achillis, 55. Tendon, 4. Tentorium cerebelli, 232. Testicles, 390. descent, 445. Thalami optici, 246. 251. Theca vertebralis, 268. Thoracic duct, 134. Thorax, 113. Thymus gland, 439. Thyro-hyoid membrane, 314. Thyroid cartilage, 313. gland, 320. Tongue, 306. Tonsils, 227. Torcular Herophili, 234. Trachea, 131. 319. Tractus motorius, 265. respiratorius, 259. Tragus, 296. Tricuspid valves, 123. Trigone vesicale, 381. Tuber cinereum, 257. Tubercula quadrigemina, 252. Tuberculum Loweri, 122. Tubuli seminiferi, 392. uriniferi, 371. Tunica albuginea oculi, 281. testis, 391. erythroides, 391. nervea, 344. vaginalis, 391. vasculosa testis, 392. Tympanum, 297. Tyson’s glands, 389. Urachus, 379. 414. Ureters, 371. 379. Urethra, female, 396. male, 382. Uterus, 398. Utriculus communis, 304. Uvea, 285. Uvula palati, 226. vesicle, 381. Vagina, 397. Valve, arachnoid, 253. coronary, 122.492 INDEX, Valve, Eustachian, 122. ilio-colic, 343. of Vicussens, 253. mitral, 127. of the rectum, 343. semi-lunar, 125. 127. sigmoid, ib. tricuspid, 123. Valvula connivcntes, 343. Vasa efferentia, 392. lactea, 349. lymphatica, 5. pampiniformia, 394. recta, 392. Vas deferens, 384. 394. Veins, 4. azygos, 133. minor, 134. basilic, 78. cava inferior, 369. superior, 131. cephalic, 79. coronary, 121. corporis striati, 246. dorsalis penis, 390. 409. dorsi-spinales, 273. femoral, 24. Galeni, 250. gastric, 352. hepatic, 355. 362. innominate, 131. intercostal superior, 134. jugular anterior, 190. external, 168. internal, 189. median, 79. basilic, ib. cephalic, ib. medulli-spinal, 274. meningo-rachidian, 273. mesenteric inferior, 350. Veins, mesenteric superior, 349. ophthalmic, 216. porte, 349. 358. profunda femoris, 24. pulmonary, 131. radial, 79. renal, 370. sacra media, 369. salvatella, 78. saphena interna, 12. externa, 54. spermatic, 370. splenic, 352. ulnar anterior, 78. posterior, ib. Velum interpositum, 250. pendulum patati, 226. Vena vorticosa, 284. Ventricle of Arantius, 254. Ventricles of the brain, fifth, 249. fourth, 252. lateral, 245. third, 251. of the heart, 123. 126. larynx, 317- Vermiform processes, 255. Veru-montanum, 382. Vesicula seminales, 384. Vestibule, 303. Vestibulum vagina, 297. Vibrissa, 275. Villi, 344. Vitreous humour, 289. Vulva, 396. Wharton’s duct, 479. Wilson’s muscles, 410. Zonula ciliaris, 287. THE END. Lonoon: Printed by A. Spottiswoodb, New-Street- Square.NEW WORKS In MISCELLANEOUS and GENERAL LITERATURE, PUBLISHED BY Messrs. LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. CLASSIFIED INDEX. AGRICULTURE &. RURAL AFFAIRS. Pages Bayldon on Valuing Rents, etc. 6 Crocker's Land Surveying - - - 9 Johnson's Farmer's Encyclopedia - - 16 Loudon’s Encycloptedia’of Agriculture - 19 ,, Self-Instruction for Farmers,etc. 18 ,, (Mrs.) Lady’g Country Companion 18 Low's Elements of Agriculture - - 19 ,, On Landed Property - - - 19 ., On the Domesticated Animals - 19 Thomson on Fattening Cattle, etc. - 30 ARTS, MANUFACTURES, AND ARCHITECTURE. Ball on the Manufacture of Tea Bourne's Catechism of the Steam Engine Brande's Dictionary of Science, etc. Budge's Miner’s Guide - - Cresy’s Eucycl. of Civil Engineering D’Aginconrt's History of Art - Dresden Gallenr - Eastlake on Oil Painting - Evans's Sugar Planter’s Manual Fergusson on Beauty in the Arts Gwilt’s Encyclopedia of Architecture Havdon’s Lectures on Painting & Design Holland’s Manufactures in Metal Humphreys'Illuminated Books Jameson's Sacred and Legendary Art Loudon’s Rural Architecture - Moseley’s Engineering and Architecture Porter's Manufacture of Silk - ,, ,, Porcelain & Glass Scoffem on Sugar Manufacture Steam Engine (The) , by the Artisan Club Twining on Painting - Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, etc. BIOCRAPHY. Bell's Lives of the British Poets Collins's Life of Collins - - - Dunham’s Early Writers of Britain ,, Lives of the British Dramatists Forster's Statesmen of the Commonwealth Foss's Judges of England ... Gleig's British Military Commanders Grant (Mrs.) Memoir and Correspondence Head's Memoirs of Cardinal Pacca Humphreys's Black Prince James's Eminent Foreign Statesmen Kindcrsley’s De Bayard - Leslie's Life of Constable Maundcr's BiographicalTreasury - Roscoe's LivesofEroinent British Lawyers 1/ Rnsscll's Bedford Correspondence Shelley's Literary Men of Italy, etc. *. Eminent French Writers Southey's Lives of the British Admirals - „ Life of Wesley - Southey’s Life and Correspondence Stephen’s Ecclesiastical Biography Taylor's Loyola - # - Townsend’s Twelve eminent Judges Waterton's Autobiography and Essays Pages 29 29 30 31 32 BOOKS OF GENERAL UTILITY. Acton’s (Eliza) Cookery Book Black’s Treatise on Brewing - Cabinet Lawyer (The) - Donovan's Domestic Economy Foster’s Hand book of Literature - Hints on Etiquette .... Hudson's Executor's Guide ,, On Making Wills Loudon’s Self Instruction ,, (Mrs.) Amateur Gardener Maunder'sTreasury of Knowledge • 5 6 7 17 11 13 14 14 18 18 21 Scientificand LiteraryTreasury 21 Treasury of History ,, BiographicalTreasury - ,, Natural History - Parkes's Domestic Duties Pocket and the Stud - - - - Pycroft’s Course of English Reading ,, Collegian’s Guide ... Reader’s Time Tables - Reece's Medical Guide - Rich’s Companion to the Latin Dictionary Riddle’s Latin Dictionaries and Lexicon Robinson’s Art of Curing, Pickling, etc. ,t Art of Making British Wines, Rowton’s Debater - Short Whist ...... Stud (The) for Practical Purposes Thomson's Management of Sick Room - ,, Interest Tables Webster'sEncycl. of DoinesticEconomy 21 22 21 24 12 25 25 26 26 26 26 26 2G 27 27 12 30 30 32 BOTANY AND CARDENINC. Ball on the Cultivation of Tea Callcott'sScriptureHerbal - Conversations on Botany Evans’s Sugar Planter's Manual Henslow’s Botany Hoare On the Grape Vine on Open Walls ,, On the Roots of Vines - Hooker's British Flora - «• Guide to Kew Gardens Lind ley'8 Theory of Horticulture u Introduction to Botany - i, Synopsis of British Flora - Loudon’s Hortus Britannicus - it Hortus Lignosus Londincusis - ,i Encyclopedia ofTrees & Shrubs »» m Gardening tt Encyclopedia of Plants «, Self-Instruction for Gardeners m (Mr.) Amateur Gardener - Rivers’s Rose Amateur's Guide Rogers's Vegetable Cultivator - Schlcidcn’s Botany, by Lankestcr - London: Printed by M. Mason, Ivy Lane, Paternoster How.CLASSIFIED INDEX CHRONOLOGY. Pages Allen on the Rise of the Royal Prero- gative, etc. 5 Blair's Chronological Tables - - - 6 Bunsen’s Ancient Egypt - - - 7 Nicolas’s Chronology of History - - 17 COMMERCE AND MERCANTILE AFFAIRS. Banfield and Weld’s Statistics - - 5 Gilbert’s Treatise on Banking _ - 11 Gray’s Tables of Life Contingencies - 12 Lorimer's Letters to a Master Mariner - 18 M‘Culloch*s Dictionary of Commerce - 20 Reader’s Time Tables - - - - 26 Steel’s Shipmaster’s Assistant - - - 29 Thomson’s Tables of Interest - - - 30 Walford’s Customs’ Laws - - - 31 CEOCRAPHY AND ATLASES. Butler’s Ancient and Modern Geography 7 ,, Atlas of General Geography - 7 De Strzelecki’s New South Wales - - 9 Erman’s Travels through Siberia - . - 10 Forster’s Historical Geography of Arabia 11 Hall’s Large Library Atlas - - - 12 ,, Railway Map of England - - 12 Johnston’s General Gazetteer - - 16 M‘Culloch’s Geographical Dictionary - 20 Mitchell’s Australian Expedition - - 22 Murray’s Encyclopedia of Geography - 23 HISTORY AND CRITICISM. Bell’s History of Russia - - - - 17 Blair’s Chron. and Historical Tables - 6 Bloomfield’s Edition of Thucydides - 6 Bunsen’s Ancient Egypt - - - 7 Coad’s Memorandum 8 Conybeare and Howson’s St. Paul - - 8 Cooley’s Maritime and Inland Discovery 17 Crowe’s History of France - - 17 De Sismoudi’s Fall of the Roman Empire 17 ,, Italian Republics - - 17 Dunham’s History of Spain and Portugal 17 ,, Europe in the Middle Ages - 17 ,, History of the German Empire 17 ,, Denmark, Sweden, and Norway 17 ,, History of Poland - - - 17 Dunlop’s History of Fiction - - 10 Eastlake’s History of Oil Painting - 10 Eccleston’s English Antiquities - - 10 Foss’s Judges of England - - - 11 Foster’s European Literature - - - 11 Fergus's United States of America - 17 Gibbon’s Roman Empire - - 11 Grant (Mrs.) Memoir andCorespondence 11 Grattan’s History of Netherlands - - 17 Harrison On the English Language - 12 Haydon's Lectures on Paintingand Design 12 Head’s Memoirs of Cardinal Paccn - - 13 Humphreys’s Black Prince - - - 14 Jeffrey’s (Lord) Contributions - - 15 Keightley’s Outlines of History - - 17 Kemble’s An^lo-Saxons in Englnnd - 16 Macaulay’s Essays - - 20 ,, History of Englnnd - - 19 Mackintosh's History of England - 17 ., Miscellaneous Works - 20 M‘Culloch’8 Dictionary, Historical, Geo- graphical. and Statistical - - 20 Maunder’s Treasury of History - - 21 Merivale’s History of Rome - - - 22 Milner’s Church History - - 22 Moore's History of Ireland - . - 17 Moshcim’s Ecclesiastical History - - 23 Murc’s Ancient Greece - - - 23 Pages Nicolas’s Chronology of History - “17 Passages from Modern History - - 28 Ranke’s History of the Reformation - 26 Rich’s Companion to the Latin Dictionary 26 Riddle’s Latin Dictionaries * - - 26 Rogers’s Essays from the Edinburgh Rev. 26 Rome. History of - - - - 17 Russell’s Bedford Correspondence - 6 Scott’s History of Scotland - _ - - 17 Smith’s (S.) Lectures on Moral Philosophy 28 Southey’s Doctor, etc. - - 29 Stebbing’s History of the Christian Church 17 Church History Stephen’s Essays - Switzerland, History of - Sydney Smith’s Works - Taylor’s Loyola - Thirhvall’s History of Greece - Tooke’s Histories of Prices Townsend’s State Trials - Twining’s Philosophy of Painting - Zumpt’s Latin Grammar - JUVENILE BOOKS. 17 29 17 28 30 30 31 31 31 32 Amy Herbert - - - Earl’s Daughter (The) _ . 27 - - 27 Gertrude - - - 27 Gower’s Scientific Phenomena - - 11 Howitt’s Boy’s Country Book - - - 14 „ Children’s Year - - 13 Laneton Parsonage - - - 27 Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations - - 20, ,21 Margaret Percival - - - 27 Marryat’s Masterman Ready - - - 21 ,, Privateer’s-Mau . . 21 ,, Settlers in Canada . - 21 ,, Mission; or, Scenes in Africa Osborne’s Oceanus - 21 24 Passages from Modern History Pycroft’s Course of English Readi Twelve Years Ago: a Tale - — 28 ing - 25 - 31 MEDICINE. Bull’s Hints to Mothers * - 7 „ Management of Children - . 7 Copland’s Dictionary of Medicine - -8 Elliotson’s Human Physiology - - 10 Latham On Diseases of the Heart - - 16 Moore On Health, Disease, and Remedy 22 Pereira On Food and Diet - - - 25 Reece’s Medical Guide - - - 26 Thomson On Food - - - - - 30 MISCELLANEOUS. - 5 - 6 - 8 - 8 17 Allen on Royal Prerogative Blakey’s Philosophy of Mind - Coad’s Memorandum Colton’s Lacon - De Morgan On Probabilities - De Strzelecki’s New South Wales - - 9 Dresden Gallery ----- 9 Dunlon’s History of Fiction - - - 10 Gowers Scientific Phenomena - - 11 Graham’s English - - - - 11 Grant’s Letters from the Mountains - 11 Hooker’s Kcw Guide - - - - 13 Howitt’s Rural Life of England - - 14 ,, Visits to Remarkable Places - 14 ,, Rural and Social Life of Germany 14 Jeffrey’s (Lord! Contributions - - 15 Kay on Education, etc. in Europe - - 16 Loudon’s (Mrs.) Lady’s Country Companion 18 Macaulay’s Critical and Historical Essays 20 Mackintosh’s (Sir J.) Miscellaneous Works 20 Maitland’s Church in the Catacombs - 20 Ncckcr DeSaussurc’s on Education - 23to Messrs. LONGMAN and Co.’s CATALOGUE. Pages Pascal’s Miscellaneous Writings - - 25 ,, Provincial Letters - * * 25 Plunkett On the Navy - - - - 25 Pycroft’s Collegian’s Guide - - - 25 ,, Course of English Reading • 25 Rich’s Companion to the Latin Dictionary 26 Richter’s Levan a ■ - - - - 26 Riddle's Latin Dictionaries and Lexicon 26 Rowton’s Debater - 26 Sandford's Parochialia - - - 2/ Seaward’s Narrative of his Shipwreck - 27 Sir Roger De Coverlev - - 28 Southey’s Common-Place Book - -29 ,, Doctor, etc. - - * 29 Stow’s Training System - - - - 30 Sydney Smith’s Works - - 28 Thomson on Food of Animals, etc. - - 30 Townsend’s State Trials - - - - 31 Walker’s Chess Studies - - - - 32 Willoughby’s (Lady) Diary - - - 32 Zumpt’s Latin Grammar - - - - 32 NATURAL HISTORY IN CENERAL. Callow's Popular Conchology 7 Doubleday’s Butterflies and Moths - 9 Ephemera and Young on the Salmon - 10 Gray and Mitchell’s Ornithology - - 12 Kirby and Spence’s Entomology - - 16 Lee’s Taxidermy - 18 ,t Elements of Natural History - - 18 Maunder’s Treasury of Natural History 21 Stephens’British Beetles. - - - 29 Swainson on the Study of Natural History 17 Animals - - - - 17 ,, Quadrupeds - - 17 9* Birds - - 17 ,, Animals in Menageries - 17 99 Fish, Amphibia, and Reptiles 17 ,, Insects - - 17 ,, Malacology - - - - 17 ,, Habits and Instincts - - 17 ,, Taxidermy - 17 Turton’s Shells of the British Islands - 31 Waterton’s Essays on Natural History - 32 Westwood’s Classification of Insects - 32 Youatt’s The Dog - - - - 32 ,, The Horse - - - - 32 Dunlop’s History of Fiction E6tv6s’ Village Notary Hall’s Midsummer Eve Lady Willoughby’s Diary Landor’s Fountain of Arethusa NOVELS AND WORKS OF FICTION. - 10 - 10 - 12 - 32 - 16 Madame De Malguet - - - - 20 Marryat’s Masterman Ready - - 21 ,, Privateer’s-Man - - - 21 ,, Settlers in Canada - - - 21 ,, Mission ; or, Scenes in Africa - 21 Sinclair’s Sir Edward Graham - - - 27 Sir Roger de Coverley - * - - 28 Southey’s Doctor, etc. - - - - 29 Twelve Years Ago: a Tale - - -31 ONE VOLUME ENCYCLOPAEDIAS AND DICTIONARIES. Blaine’s, of Rural Sports 6 Brande’s, of Science, Literature, and Art 7 Copland’s, of Medicine - - • - 8 Cresy’s, of Civil Engineering * • • 9 Gwilt’s, of Architecture - - 12 Johnson’s Farmer ----- 16 Johnston’» Geographical Dictionary - 16 Loudon’s, of Trees and Shrubs *- - 19 ,9 of Gardening . • - - 19 Pages Loudon’s,of Agriculture - - - - 19 ,, of Plants ----- 19 ,, of Rural Architecture - - 19 M'Culloch’s Geographical Dictionary - 20 ,, Dictionary of Commerce - 20 Murray’s Encyclopaedia of Geography - 23 Ure’s Arts, Manufactures, and Mines - 31 Webster’s Domestic Economy - -32 POETRY AND THE DRAMA. Aikin’s (Dr.) British Poets - - - 5 Flowers and their Kindred Thoughts - 24 Fruits from the Garden and Field - - 24 Goldsmith’s Poems, illustrated - - 11 Gray’s Elegy, illuminated - - - 24 Hey’s Moral of Flowers - - 13 ,, Sylvan Musings - - - - 13 Kent’s Aletheia - - - - - 16 L. E. L.’s Poetical Works - - 16 Linwood’s Anthologia Oxoniensis - - 18 Macaulay’s Lays of Ancient Rome - - 20 Mackay’s English Lakes - - - -20 Montgomery’s Poetical Works - - 22 Moore’s Irish Melodies - - * 24 ,, LallaRookh - - - - 24 ,, Poetical Works - - - - 23 ,, Songs and Ballads - - - 23 Shakspeare, by Bowdler - . - 27 Southey’s Poetical Works - - - 29 ,, British Poets - - - - 29 Swain’s English Melodies - _ - 30 Taylor’s Virgin Widow - _ _ - 30 Thomson’s Seasons, illustrated - - 30 ,, with Notes, by Dr. A. T Thomson 30 POLITICAL ECONOMY AND STATISTICS. Banfield and Weld’s Statistics - - 5 Gilbart’s Treatise on Banking - - - 11 Gray’s Tables of Life Contingencies - 12 Kay on the Social Condition, etc.of Europe 16 Laing’s Notes of a Traveller - - - 16 M'Culloch’s Geographical, Statistical, and Historical Dictionary - - - 20 McCulloch’s Dictionarv of Commerce - 20 ,, On Succession to Property - 20 ,, On Taxation and Funding - 20 ,, Statistics of the British Empire 20 Marcet’s Conversations on Polit.Economy 21 Tooke’s Histories of Prices - - - 31 RELIGIOUS AND MORAL WORKS, ETC. Amv Herbert, edited by Rev. W. Sewell Blakey on Christianity - Bloomfield’s Greek Testament ,, College and Schoolditto - ,, Lexicon to Greek Testament Book of Ruth (illuminated) Burder’s Oriental Customs Burns’s Christian Philosophy - Callcott’s Scripture Herbal' • Convbearc and Howson’s St. Paul - Cook’s Edition of the Acts Cooper's Sermons - Dale’s Domestic Liturgy Dlbdin’sSunday Library - Discipline - Earl’s Daughter (The) - Ecclesiastes (illuminated) Englishman’s Hebrew Concordance Greek Concordance Etheridge’s Acts and Epistles 27 6 6 6 6 14 7 7 7 8 8 8 9 9 9 27 24 10 10 10CLASSIFIED INDEX. Pages Forster’s Historical Geography of Arabia 11 Gertrude, edited by the Rev. W. Sewell - 27 Hook’s (Dr.) Lectures on Passion Week 13 Horne’s I ntroduction to the Scriptures - 13 ,, Compendium of ditto - - 13 Howson’s Sunday Evening - - - 14 Jameson’s Sacred and Legendary Art - 15 „ Monastic Legends - - - 15 Jebb’s Translation of the Psalms - - 15 Jeremy Taylor’s Works - - • - 15 Kip’s Christmas in Rome - - - 16 ,, Early Conflicts of Christianity - 16 Laneton Parsonage - - - - - 27 Letters to my Unknown Friends - - 18 ,, on Happiness - - - - 18 Maitland's Church in the Catacombs - 20 ,, on Prophecy - ■ * - 20 Margaret Percival ----- 27 Marriage Service (illuminated) - - 24 Maxims, etc. of the Saviour - - - 15 Milner’s Church History - - * - 22 Miracles of Our Saviour - - - 15 Montgomery’s God and Man - - - 22 Moore on the Power of the Soul - - 22 ,, on the Use of the Body - - 22 „ on Man and his Motives - - 22 Morell’s Philosophy of Religion - - 23 Mosheim’s Ecclesiastical History - - 23 Neale’s Closing Scene - - - - 23 Newman’s (J. H.) Discourses - - 23 Paley’s Evidences, etc., by Potts - - 24 Parables of Our Lord - - - - 15 Parkes’s Domestic Duties - - - 24 Pascal’s Works, by Pearce - - - 25 Ranke’s Reformation - - - - 26 Sandford's Parochialia - - - - 27 Sermon on the Mount (The) - - - 24 Sinclair’s Journey of Life - - - 28 ,, Business of Life - - 28 Sketches (The) - - - 28 Smith’s (G.) PerilousTimes - - ^ - 28 ,, Religion of Ancient Britain 28 i, Sacred Annals - - - 28 ,, (J.) St. Paul’s Shipwreck - - 28 ,, (S.) Lectures on Moral Philosophy 28 Soames’s Latin Church - - - - 28 Solomon's Song (illuminated) - - - 24 Southey’s Life of Wesley - - - 29 Stebbing’s Christian Church - - - 17 ,, Reformation - - - - 17 Stephen’s Church of Scotland - - 29 ,, (Sir J.) Essays - - - - 29 Sydney Smith’s Sermons - - - 28 Tate’s History of St. Paul - - - 30 Tayler’s (Rev. C. B.) Margaret - - 30 ,» •• Lady Mary - - 30 Taylor’s (J.) Thumb Bible - - - 31 (Isaac) Lovola - - 30 Tomline’s Introduction to the Bible - 31 Turner’s Sacred History - - - 31 Twelve Years Ago - - - 31 Walker’s Elements Liturgica - - - 31 Wilberforce’s View of Christianity - 32 Willoughby’s (Lady) Diary - • - 32 Wilson’s Lands of the Bible - - - 32 Wisdom of Johnson’s Rambler, etc. - 15 Woodcock’s Scripture Lands - - - 32 RURAL SPORTS. Blaine’s Dictionary of Sports - - 6 Ephemera on Angling - - - 10 ,, ’s Book of the Salmon - - 10 Hawker’sInstructionstoSportsmen - 12 London’s (Mrs.) Lady’s Country Companion 18 Pocket and the Stud • - - - 12 Practical Horsemanship - - - - 12 Ronalds’s Fly-Fisher - - - - 12 Stable Talk and Table Talk - - - 12 The Stud, for Practical Men - Wheatley’s Rod and Line Pages - 12 - 32 the sciences in ceneral, AND MATHEMATICS. Baker’s Railway Engineering - - t “ Bourne’s Catechism of the Steam Engine Brande’s Dictionary of Science, etc. Brewster’s Optics - Conversations on Mineralogy - - De la Beche on theGeology ofCornwall,etc Donovan’s Chemistry Farey on the Steam Engine - Fosbroke on the Arts of the Ancients - Gower’s Scientific Phenomena Herschel’sNatural Philosophy ,, Astronomy - „ Outlines of Astronomy - Holland’s Manufactures in Metal - Humboldt’s Aspects of Nature ,, Cosmos - Hunt’s Researches on Light - Kane’s Chemistry - - Katerand Lardner’sMechanics Lardner’s Cabinet Cyclopredia ,, Hydrostatics and Pneumatics ,, and Walker’s Electricity ,, Arithmetic - ,, Geometry - ,, Treatise on Heat - Marcet’s Conversations - 20, MatteucciOn Physical Phenomena Memoirs of the Geological Survey - Moseley’s Practical Mechanics ,, Engineering and Architecture Owen’s Comparative Anatomy - Peschel’s Physics - Phillips’s PalieozoicFossilsof Cornwall, etc ,, Mineralogy, by Prof. Miller ,, Treatise on Geology- Portlock’s Geology of Londonderry Powell’s Natural Philosophy - Schleiden’s Scientific Botany - Steam Engine (Ure), by the Artisan Club Thomson’s School Chemistry 5 6 7 17 8 9 17 11 17 11 17 17 13 17 14 14 15 16 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 21 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 25 17 35 17 27 5 30 TRAVELS. Baxter’s Impressions of Europe Borrer’s Campaign in Algeria - Chesney’s Euphrates ana Tigris Costello’s (Miss) North Wales Coulter’s Pacific - De Strzelecki’s New South Wales - Erman’s Travels through Siberia - Forester and Biddulph’s Norway He ad *8 Tour in Rome - Humboldt’s Aspects of Nature Kip’s Holydays in Rome Laing’s Notes of a Traveller - Mackay’s English Lakes Marryat’s Borneo - Mitchell’s Expedition into Australia Power’s New Zealand Sketches Seaward’s Narrative of his Shipwreck Wilson’s Travels in the Holy Land Woodcock’s Scripture Lands - VETERINARY MEDICINE. Pocket and the Stud - Practical Horsemanship - Stable Talk and Table Talk The Stud, for Practical Purposes - Thomson on Fattening Cattle Youatt’s The Dog - ,, The HorseM NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS PUBLISHED BY , Messrs. LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS. ACTON.—MODERN COOKERY, In all its Branches, reduced to a System of Easy Practice. For the use of Private Families. In a Series of Practical Receipts, all of which have been strictly tested, and are given with the most minute exactness. By Eliza Acton. New Edition, with Directions for Carving, and other Additions. Foolscap Svo. with Plates and Woodcuts, 7*. 6rf. cloth. AIKIN — SELECT WORKS OF THE BRITISH POETS: From Ben Jousoti to Coleridge. With Biographical and Critical Prefaces by Dr. Aikin. A New Edition, with additional Selections, from more receut Poets, by Lucy Aikin. Medium 8vo. 18s. cloth. ALLEN ON THE ROYAL PREROGATIVE.—INQUIRY INTO THE RISE AND GROWTH OF THE ROYAL PREROGATIVE. By the late John Allen, Master of Dulwich College. A New Edition, with the Author’s last corrections: preceded by M. Berengcr’s %* Rapport” on the Work read before the Institute of France ; an Article on the same from the “ Edinburgh Review;” and a Biographical Notice of the Author. To which is added, an Inquiry into the Life and Character of King Eadwig, from the Author’s MS. 8vo. 12s. cloth. ARTISAN CLUB (THE).—A TREATISE ON THE STEAM-ENGINE. In its application to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, and Railways. By the Artisan Club. Edited by John Bourne, C.E. New Edition. With 30 Steel Plates, and about 350 Wood Engravings. 4to. 27*. cloth. BAKER.—RAILWAY ENGINEERING; Containing the most approved Methods of laying out Railway Curves, and of setting out the Cuttings, Embankments, and Tunnels of Railways: with a General and two Auxiliary Tables, for thr Calculation of Earthworks of Railways, Canals, etc. Also, the Investigation of the Formula for the Superelevation of the exterior Rail in Curves. By T. Baker, Surveyor and Civil Engineer. Svo. 5*. cloth. BALL.—AN ACCOUNT OF THE CULTIVATION AND MANUFACTURE OF TEA IN CHINA: derived from Personal Observation during an Official Residence in that Country of upwards of Twenty Years ; and illustrated by theTest Authorities, Chinese as well as European. With some Remarks on the Experiments now making for the Intro- duction of the Culture of the Tea Tree in other parts of the World. By S. Ball, Esn late Inspector of Teas to the East India Company in ChitiA. 8vo.with Plates and Woodcuts, 14«. cloth. BANFIELD AND WELD.—THE STATISTICAL COMPANION FOR 1850 j Exhibiting the most interesting Facta in Moral and Intellectual, Vital, Economical, and Political Statistics, at home and abroad. Compiled from Official and other authentic Sources. byT. C Ban field, Statistical Clerk to the Council of Education ; and C. R. Weld, Assistant Secretary to the Royal Society. New Edition (I860), corrected and extended to the present Time. Foolscap Svo. 6*. cloth.BAXTER.—IMPRESSIONS OF CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN EUROPE: Being; Notes of Successive Journeys in Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, and the Levant. By William Edward Baxter, Esq. 8vo. 12*. cloth. BAYLDON.-—THE ART OF VALUING RENTS AND TILLAGES, And the Tenant’s Right of Entering; and Quitting Farms, explained by several Specimens of Valuations; and Remarks on the Cultivation pursued on Soils in different Situations. Adapted to the Use of Landlords, Land-Agents, Appraisers, Farmers, and Tenants. By J. S. Bayldon. New Edition, corrected and revised by John Donaldson. 8vo. 10*. 6d. cloth. BEDFORD CORRESPONDENCE.—CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN, FOURTH DUKE OF BEDFORD, selected from the Originals at Woburn Abbey, (1742-70). With Introductions by Lord John Russell. 3 vols. 8vo. with Portrait, 48*. cloth. BLACK.—A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON BREWING. Based on Chemical and Economical Principles: with Formulae for Public Brewers, and Instructions for Private Families. By William Black, Practical Brewer. New Edition, with considerable Additions. 8vo. 10*. 6d. cloth. BLAINE.—AN EN CYC LOP/EDI A OF RURAL SPORTS; Or, a complete Account, Historical, Practical, and Descriptive, of Hunting, Shooting, Fishing, Racing, and other Field Sports and Athletic Amusements of the present day. By Delabere P. Blaine, Esq., author of “ Canine Pathology,” etc. With nearly 600 Engravings on Wood, by R. Branston, from Drawings by Aiken, T. Landseer, Dickes, etc. In One large Volume, 8vo. A new nnd thoroughly revised Edition is in the press. BLAIR’S CHRONOLOGICAL AND HISTORICAL TABLES, From the Creationto the present Time: with Additions and Corrections from the most authen- tic Writers ; including the Computation of St. Paul, as connecting the Period from the Exode to the Temple. Under the revision of Sir Henry Ellis, K.H., Principal Librarian of the British Museum. Imperial 8vo. 31*. 6rf. half-bound morocco. BLAKEY.-HI STORY OF THE PHILOSOPHY OF MIND: Embracing the Opinions of all Writers on Mental Science, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. By Robert Blakey, Esq. author of “ History of Moral Science,” “The Temporal Benefits of Christianity,” etc. 4 vols. Svo. 60*. cloth. BLAKEY.—THE TEMPORAL BENEFITS OF CHRISTIANITY; Exemplified in its influence on the Social, Intellectual, and Political Condition of Mankind, from its First Promulgation to the Present Day. By Robert Blakey, author of the “ History of the Philosophy of Mind,” etc. 8vo. 9*. cloth. BLOOMFIELD—THE HISTORY OF THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. By Thucydides. A New Recension of the Text, with a carefully amended Punctuation ; and copious Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explanatory, almost entirely original, but partly selected and arranged from the best Expositors : accompanied with lull Indexes. Illus- trated by Maps and Plans. By the Rev. S .T. Bloomfield, D.D. F.S.A. 2 vols. 8vo. 38*. cloth. BLOOMFIELD—THE GREEK TESTAMENT : With copious English Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explanatory. Formed for the use of advanced Students of Divinity and Candidates for Holy Orders. By the Rev. S. T. Bloomfield, D.D. F.S.A. New Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. with a Map of Palestine, 40*. cloth. BLOOMFIELD.—THE CREEK TESTAMENT FOR COLLEGES AND SCHOOLS ; with shorter English Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explanatory. By the Rev. S. T. Bloomfield. D.D. New Edition, enlarged, with a New Map and ati Index. Foolscap 8vo. 10*. 6rf. cloth. BLOOMFIELD.—CREEK AND ENGLISH LEXICON TO THE NEW TESTAMENT: especially adapted to the use of Colleges, and the Higher Classes in Public Schools; but alsointendcd as a convenient Manual for Biblical Students in general. By Dr. Bloomfield. New Edition, improved. Foolscap 8vo. 10*. 6d. cloth. BORRER.—NARRATIVE OF A CAMPAIGN WITH A FRENCH COLUMN against the Kaba'ilesof Algeria: with the Mission of M. Suchct to the F.mir Abd-cl-Knder, for an Exchange of Prisoners. By Dawson Borrcr, F.R.G.S. Membre Corrcspondant de la Socidtd Oricntalc a Paris, author of “A Journey from Naples to Jerusalem.” Post Svo. 10*. 6d. doth.*■-— - - -- —re PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. 7 BOURNE —A CATECHISM OF THE STEAM ENGINE, Illustrative of the Scientific Principles upon which its Operation depends, and the Practical Details of its Structure, in its Applications to Mines, Mills, Steam Navijjatiog, and Railways; with various Suggestions of Improvement. By John Bourne, C. E. Editor of “The Artisan Club’s Treatise on the Steam Engine.” 3d Edition, revised and corrected. Foolscap 8vo. 63. cloth. BRANDE.—A DICTIONARY OF SCIENCE, LITERATURE, AND ART; Comprising the History, Description, and Scientific Principles of every Branch of Human Knowledge; with the Derivation and Definition of all the Terms in general use. Edited by W.T. Brande,F.R.S.L.and E.; assisted by Dr. J. Cauviu. In One large Volume, 8vo. with Woodcuts. A new Edition, in the press. BUDGE (J.)—THE PRACTICAL MINER'S GUIDE. Comprising a Set of Trigonometrical Tables adapted to all the purposes of Oblique or Diagonal, Vertical, Horizontal, and Traverse Dialling; with their application to the Dial, Exercise of Drifts, Lodes, Slides, Levelling, Inaccessible Distances, Heights, etc. By J. Budge. New Edition, enlarged. 8vo. with Portrait, 12s. cloth. BULL.—HINTS TO MOTHERS, For the Management of their Health during the Period of Pregnancy and in the Lying-in Room: with an Exposure of Popular Errors in connexion with those subjects, etc.; and Hints upon Nursing. Bv Thomas Bull, M.D. New Edition, carefully revised and enlarged. Foolscap 8vo. 5«. cloth. BULL.-THE MATERNAL MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN, In HEALTH and DISEASE. By Thomas Bull, M.D. late Physician Accoucheur to the Finsbury Midwifery Institution. New Edition,revised and enlarged. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. cloth. BUNSEN.—EGYPT'S PLACE IN UNIVERSAL HISTORY: An Historical Investigation, in Five Books. By C. C. J.Bunsen, D. Ph.and D.C.L. Trans- lated from the German, by C. H. Cottrell, Esq. M.A. Vol. I. containing the First Book, or Sources and Primeval Facts of Egyptian History; with an Egyptian Grammar and Dictionary, and a complete List of Hieroglyphical Signs; an Appendix of Authorities, embracing the completeTcxt of Manetho and Eratosthenes, vEgyptiaca from Pliny, Strabo, etc.; and Plates representing the Egyptian Divinities. 8vo. with numerous Illustrations, 28s. cloth. BURDER.—ORIENTAL CUSTOMS, Applied to the Illustration of the Sacred Scriptures. By Dr. Samuel Burder. New Edition, with Additions. Foolscap 8vo. 8s. 6d. cloth. BURNS.—THE PRINCIPLES OF CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHY; Containing the Doctrines, Duties, Admonitions, and Consolations of the Christian Religion. By John Burns, M.D. F.R.S. 6thEdition. Foolscap 8vo. 6j. 6d. cloth. BUTLER.—A SKETCH OF MODERN AND ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY, for the use of Schools. By Samuel Butler, D.D., late Lord Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry; and formerly Head Master of Shrewsbury School. New Edition, revised by the Author’s Sou. 8vo. 9s. boards. BUTLER —A CENERAL ATLAS OF MODERN AND ANCIENT CEOCR APHY. Consisting of Forty-five coloured Maps, and copious Indices referring to the Latitudes and Longitudes. By the late Bishop Butler. New Edition, re-engraved ; with corrections (in the Modern Maps) from the Government Surveys and other recent Sources of Information ; and fin the Ancient Maps) from the most approved writers on Ancient Geography. 4to. 24*. half-bound. Separately—'The Ancient Atlas,8vo. 12s. half-bound ; the Modern Atlas, 8vo. 12s. half-bound. CABINET LAWYER (THE). A Popular Digest of the Laws of England, Civil and Criminal j with a Dictionary of Law Terms, Maxims, Statutes, and Judicial Antiquities ; Correct Tables of Assessed Taxes, Stamp Duties, Excise Licences, and Post-Horse Duties; Post-Oflicc Regulations, and Prison Discipline. Fifteenth Edition (1850), enlarged, and corrected throughout, with the Legal Decisions aud Statutes to Michaelmas Term, 12 and 13 Victoria. Fcap. 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. CALLCOTT.—A SCRIPTURE HERBAL: With upwards of 120 VVood Engravings. By Lady Callcott. Square crown8vo. 12.5>.cloth. CATLOW.—POPULAR CONCHOLOCY; Or, the Shell Cabinet arranged : being an Introduction to the modern System of Conchology; with a sketch of the Natural History of the Animals, an account of the Formation of the Shells, and acomplete Descriptive List of the Families and Genera. By Agues Catlow. Foolscap 8vo. with 312 Woodcuts, 10s. 6i. cloth. a:CHlfcNEY.-THE EXPEDITION for the survey of the rivers L J [<i[US’ carried «« by order of the British Government, in the Years IMS, 1836, and 1837. By Lieut.-Col. Chesney, R.A. F R.S., Commander of the Expedition. Vols. I. and H. m royal 8v°., with a coloured Index Map, and numerous Plates and Wood- cuts, fids. cloth. Also, an Atlas of Thirteen Charts, etc. of the Expedition, price 1/. 11a. 6d. in case. *•* The entire work will consist of four volumes, royal 8vo. embellished with Ninety-seven Plates, besides numerous Woodcut Illustrations, from Drawings chiefly made by Officers employed in the Surveys. JOHN COAD’S MEMORANDUM. A contemporary Account of the Sufferings of the Rebels sentenced to Transportation h\ Judge Jefferies ; being, A Memorandum of the Wonderful Providences of God to a Poor Unworthy Creature during the Time of the Duke of Monmouth’s Rebellion, and to the Revolution in 1688. By JohnCoad, one of the Sufferers. Square foolscap 8vo. 4s. 6d. cloth. Sketches by the Painter. 2 vols. post 8vo. 215. cloth. COLTON —LACON ; OR, MANY THINGS IN FEW WORDS. By the Rev . C. C. Colton. New Edition. 8vo. 12s.cloth. CONVERSATIONS ON BOTANY. New Edition,improved. Foolscap Svo.with 22 Plates,7J. 6d. cloth ; with coloured Plates, 12s. CONVERSATIONS ON MINERALOGY. With Plates, engraved by Mr. and Mrs. Lowry, from Original Drawings. Third Edition, enlarged. 2 vols. foolscap 8vo. 14s. cloth. CONYBEARE AND HOWSON.—THE LIFE AND EPISTLES OF ST. PAUL; comprising a complete Biography of the Apostle, and a Paraphrastic Translation of his Epistles inserted in Chronological order. Edited by the Rev. W. J. Conybeare, M.A. late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge ; and the Rev. J. S. Howson, M.A. lnte Principal of the Collegiate Institution, Liverpool. 2 vols. 4to. copiously illustrated by numerous Engravings on Steel and Wood of the Principal Places visited by the Apostle, from Original Drawings made on the spot by W. H. Bartlett; and by Maps, Charts, Woodcuts of Coins, etc. *** In course of publication in Monthly Parts, price 2s. each ; of which seven are now ready. COOK.—THE ACTS OF THE APOSTLES : With a Commentary, and Practical and Devotional Suggestions, for the Use of Readers and Students of the English Bible. By the Rev. F. C. Cook, M.A., one of Her Majesty’s Inspectors of Church Schools. Post 8vo. 8s. 6d. cloth. COOPER.—PRACTICAL AND FAMILIAR SERMONS. Designed for Parochial and Domestic Instruction. By the Rev. Edward Cooper. New Edition. 7 vols. 12mo. If. 18s. boards. • COOPER’S DOCTRINAL SERMONS. Sermons chiefly designed to elucidate some of the leading Doctrines of the Gospel. By the Rev. Edward Cooper. New Edition. 2 vols. 12mo. 10s. boards. COPLAND.—A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE; Comprising General Pathology, the Nature and Treatment of Diseases, Morbid Structures, and the Disorders especially incidental to Climates, to Sex, and to the different Epochs of Life, with numerous upproved Formula* of the Medicines recommended. By James Copland, M.D., etc. etc. Vols. I. and II., 8vo. 3f. cloth ; and Parts X. to XIV. 4s. 6<f. each. COSTELLO.—FALLS, LAKES, AND MOUNTAINS OF NORTH WALES; being a Pictorial Tour through the most interesting parts of the Country. By Miss Louisa Stuart Costello. Profusely illustrated with Views, from Original Sketches by D. H. M‘Kcwan, engraved on wood, and lithographed, by T. and K.Gilks. Square Svo.with Map, 11s. cloth.PUBLISHED BV MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. 9 COULTER.—ADVENTURES IN THE PACIFIC; With Observations on the Natural Productions, Manners and Customs of the Natives of the various Islands ; Remarks on the Missionaries, British and other Residents, etc. By John Coulter, M.D. Post 8vo. 7s. 6d. cloth. CRESY. — AN ENCYCLOP/EDIA OF CIVIL ENGINEERING, HISTORICAL, THEORETICAL, and PRACTICAL. By Edward Cresy, F.S.A. C.E. Illustrated by upwards of Three Thousand-Engravings on Wood, explanatory of the Principles, Machinery, and Con- structions which come under the Direction of the Civil Engineer. One large Volume Svo. upwards of 1,600 pages, 3l.135. 6d. cloth. CROCKER’S ELEMENTS OF LAND SURVEYING. Fifth Edition, corrected throughout, and considerably improved and modernised, by T. G. Bunt, Land Surveyor, Bristol. To which are added, TABLES OF SIX-FIGURE LOGARITHMS, etc., superintended by Richard Farley, of the Nautical Almanac Establish- ment. Post Svo. 125. cloth. Mr. Farley’s Tables of Six-Figure Logarithms may be had separately, price 45. 6d. DALE.—THE DOMESTIC LITURGY AND FAMILY CHAPLAIN: in Two Parts: the First Part being Church Services adapted for Domestic Use, with Prayers for every Day of the Week, selected exclusively from the Book of Common Prayer. Part II. comprising an appropriate Sermon for every Sunday in the Year. By the Rev. Thomas Dale, M.A., Canon-Residentiary of St. Paul’s Cathedral. 2d Edition. Post 4to. 215. cloth ; or, bound by Hayday, 315. 6d. calf lettered ; 0O5. morocco. Separately:— THE FAMILY CHAPLAIN, price 12*. cloth. THE DOMESTIC LITURGY, price 10s. 6rf. cloth. DE LA BECHE.—REPORT ON THEGEOLOCY OF CORNWALL,DEVON, AND WESTSOMERSET. By Henry T. De la Beche, F.R.S. etc., Director of the Ordnance Geological Survey. Published by Order of the Lords Commissioners of H. M. Treasury. 8vo. with Maps, Woodcuts, and 12 large Plates, 145.cloth. DE STKZELECKI (P.E.)-PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION OF NEW SOUTH WALES AND VAN DIEMAN’S LAND. Accompanied by a Geological Map, Sections, and Diagrams, and Figures of the Organic Remains. By P. E. De Strzelecki. 8vo. with coloured Map and numerous Plates, 245. cloth. DIBDIN (THE REY. T. F.)-THE SUNDAY LIBRARY: Containing nearly One hundred Sermons by eminent Divines. With Notes, etc. by the Rev. T. F. Dibdin, D.D. 6 vols.foolscap 8vo. with 6 Portraits, 305. cloth ; neatly half-bound in morocco, with gilt edges, 21. 125. 6d. DISCIPLINE. By the Author of “ Letters to my Unknown Friends,” “Twelve Years Ago,” “Some Passages from Modern History,” and “ Letters on Happiness.” 18mo. 25. cloth. DOUBLEDAY AND HEWITSON’S BUTTERFLIES.—THE GENERA OF DIURNAL LF.PIDOPTERA; comprising their Generic Characters—a Notice of the Habits and Transformations—and a Catalogue ot the Species of each Genus. By Edward Double- day, Esq. P.L.S.ctc., late Assistant in the Zoological Department of the* British Museum. Continued byJ. O. Westwood, Esq. Illustrated with 75 coloured Plates, by W.C. Hewitson, Esq. author of “ British Oology.” Imperial 4to., uniform with Gray and Mitchell’s “ Genera of Birds.” *,* In course of publication, in Monthly Parts, bs. each. The publication, which has been nunpended for a few months, in consequence oj the death of Mr. IJoubleduy, will be resumed shortly, and continued regularly until the completion of the work. DRESDEN GALLERY—THE MOST CELEBRATED PICTURES OF THE ROYAL GALLERY at DRESDEN, drawn on Stone, from the Originals, by Franz Hanfataengcl : with Descriptive and Biographical Notices, in French and German. Nob. I. to LVI., imperial folio, each containing 3 Plates with accompanying Letter-press, price 2»»*. to SnbacriberBi to Non-subseribers, 30«. Single Plates, 12«. each. s *,* To be completed in Jour more number., price 20*. each, to Subscribers! Nos. 1.1 to LX. containing each -I Plates and Letterpress.DUNLOP (JOHN).—THE HISTORY OF FICTION: SkL™!','1 ^cc:°un.tr°f *he P>°8t ®elebn>ted Prose Works of Fiction, from the earliest SufinKn .vi the.^°rel3«f tba Present Age. ByJohn Dnnlop. NewEditiou.com plete in One Volume. Medium 8vo. 15*. cloth. EART^A^E;~^Tf?IALS FOR A history of oil painting. y Charles Lock Eastlake, Esq. R.A. F.R.S. F.S.A. Secretary to the Royal Commission for Promoting the Fine Arts in connexion with the rebuilding of the Houses of Parliament, etc. ovo. I05. cloth. *** Vol. II. On the Italian Practice of Oil Painting, it preparing for publication. ECCLESTON (JAMES).—AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH ANTIQUITIES Intended ns a Companion to the History of England. By James Eccleston, B.A. Head Master of Sutton Coldfield Grammar School. 8vo. with numerous Engravings on Wood, 21s. cloth. D 3 ' ELLIOTSON.—HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY: With which is incorporated much of the Elementary Part of the "Institutiones Physiological” of J. F. Blumeubach, Professor in the University of Gottingen. By John Elliotson, M.D. Cantab. F.R.S. Fifth Edition, 8vo. with numerous Woodcuts, 2J.2s. cloth. THE ENGLISHMAN’S GREEK CONCORDANCE OF THE NEW TESTA- MENT ; being an attempt at a Verbal Connexion between the Greek and the English Texts; including a Concordance to the Proper Names, with Indexes, Greek-English and English-Greek. 2d Edition, carefully revised, with a new Index, Greek and English. Royal 8vo. 42s. THE ENGLISHMAN’S HEBREW AND CHALDEE CONCORDANCE OF THE OLD TESTAMENT; being an attempt at a Verbal Connexion between the Original and the English Translations: witn Indexes, a List of the Proper Names and their Occur- rences, etc. etc. 2 vols. royal8vo. 31.135. fid. cloth ; large paper, 41.141. 6d. EOTVOS.—THE VILLAGE NOTARY: A Romance of Hungarian Life. Translated from the Hungarian of Baron Eotvos, by Otto Wenckstern. With an Introduction written expressly for the present Translation, by Francis Pulszky. 3 vols. post 8vo. 31s. 6d. boards. EPHEMERA.—THE BOOK OF THE SALMON : I n Two Parts. Part I. The Theory, Principles, and Practice of Fly-Fishing for Salmon; with Lists of good Salmon Flies for every good River in the Empire.—Part II. the Natural History of the Salmon, all its known Habits described, and the best way of artificially Breeding it explained. Usefully illustrated with numerous coloured engravings of Salmon Flies and Salmon Fry. By Ephemera, Author of “A Hand-Book of Angling*/’ assisted by Andrew Young, of luvershin, Manager of the Duke of Sutherland's Salmon Fisheries. Foolscap 8vo. with coloured Plates, 14s. cloth. EPHEMERA.-A HAND-BOOK OF ANGLING; Teaching Fly Fishing, Trolling, Bottom Fishing, and Salmon Fishing. With the Natural History of River Fish, and the best Modes of Catching them. By Ephemera. New Edition, enlarged and improved. Foolscap 8vo. with Wood Engravings, 9s. cloth. ERMAN.—TRAVELS IN SIBERIA: Including Excursions Northwards, down the Obi, to the Polar Circle, and Southwards, to the Clnucse Frontier. By Adolph Erraan. Translated by W. D. Cooley, Esq. author of The History of Maritime and Inland Discovery.” 2 vols. 8vo. with Map, 31s. fid. cloth. ETHERIDGE.—THE APOSTOLICAL ACTS AND EPISTLES, From the Pcschito, or Ancient Syriac. To which are added, the remaining Epistles, and the Book of Revelation, after a later Syrian Text. Translated, with Prolegomena and Indices, by J. W. Etheridge, M.A. Doctor in Philosophy of the University of Heidelberg, and Member of the Asiatic Society of Paris ; author of “ The Syrian Churches ; their early History, Liturgies, and Literature.” Royal 12mo. Is. Cd. cloth. EVANS.—THE SUGAR PLANTER’S MANUAL; Being a Treatise on the Art of obtaining Sugar from the Sugar Cane. By W. J.Evans,M.D. 8vo. 9s. cloth.PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. 11 FAREY—TREATISE ON THE STEAM-ENGINE, Historical, Practical, and Descriptive. By John Farey, Engineer. Illustrated with nu- merous Woodcuts, and 25 Plates. 4to. 51. os. boards. FERGUSSON.—AN HISTORICAL INQUIRY INTO THE TRUE PRIN- CIPLES OF BEAUTY IN ART, more especially with reference to ARCHITECTURE. By James Fergusson, Esq., author of “ An Essay on the Ancient Topography of Jerusalem,” “Picturesque Illustrations of Ancient Architecture in Hindostau,” etc. With five Steel Plates, a coloured Lithographic Engraving, and upwards of 100 Woodcuts. Imperial 8vo. 30*. cloth. FORESTER AND BIDDULPH.—NORWAY IN 1848 Sc 1849: Containing Rambles among the Fjelds and Fjords of the Central and Western Districts ; and including Remarks on its Political, Military, Ecclesiastical, and Social Organisation. By Thomas Forester, Esq. With Extracts from the Journals of Lieutenant M. S. Biddulph, Royal Artillery. With a new coloured Map, Wood Engravings, and 10 tinted Lithographic Plates from Drawings made on the spot. 8vo. 18s. cloth. FORSTER (REV. C.)—THE HISTORICAL GEOGRAPHY OF ARABIA: Or, the Patriarchal Evidences of Revealed Religion. A Memoir, with Illustrative Maps and an Appendix, containing Translations. By the Rev. Charles Forster. 2 vols. 8vo. 30*. cloth. FOSS.—THE JUDGES OF ENGLAND: With Sketches of their Lives, aud Miscellaneous Notices connected with the Courts at West- minster from the time of the Conquest. By Edward Foss, F'.S.A., of the Inner Temple. Vols. I. and II. Svo. 28s. cloth. FOSTER.—A HAND-BOOK OF MODERN EUROPEAN LITERATURE: British, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Polish and Russian, Por- tuguese, Spanish, and Swedish. With a full Biographical and Chronological Index. By Mrs. Foster. Foolscap 8vo. 8s. 6d. cloth. *,* The object of this book is, not so much to give elaborate criticisms on the various writers in the languages to whose literature it is intended as a guide, as to direct the student to the best writers in each, and to inform him upon what subjects they have written. GIBBON.—HISTORY OF THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. A new Edition, in One Volume; with an Account of the Author's Life and Writings, by Alexander Chalmers, Esq. F.A.S. 8vo. with Portrait, 18*. cloth. %• An Edition in 8 vols. 8vo. 60*. boards. GILBART.—A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON BANKING. By James William Gilbart, F.R.S. General Manager of the London and Westminster Bank. 5th Edition, with Portrait of the Author, and View of the “ London and Westminster Bank,” Lothbury. 2 vols. 8vo. 24*. cloth. GOLDSMITH-THE POETICAL WORKS OF OLIVER GOLDSMITH. Illustrated by Wood Engravings, from Designs by Members of the Etching Club. Edited bv Bolton Corney, Esq. Square crown 8vo., uniform with “Thomson’s Seasons,” 21s. cloth; or 36l. bound in morocco, by Hayday. GOWER.—THE SCIENTIFIC PHENOMENA OF DOMESTIC LIFE FAMILIARLY EXPLAINED. By Charles Foote Gower. New Edition. Foolscap8vo. with Engravings on Wood, 5s. cloth. GRAHAM.-ENCLISH; OR, THE ART OF COMPOSITION explained in a Series of Instructions and Examples. By G. F. Graham. New Edition, re- vised and improved. Foolscap 8vo. 6s. cloth. GRANT (MRS.)—LETTERS FROM THE MOUNTAINS. Being the Correspondence with her Friends, between the years 17/3 and 1803. By Mrs. Grant, of Laggan. 6th Edition. Edited, with Notes and Additions, by her Son, J. P. Grant, Esq. 2 vols. post 8vo. 21s. cloth. GRANT (MRS.)—MEMOIR AND CORRESPONDENCE OF THE LATE MRS. GRANT, of Laggan, author of “ Letters from the Mountains,” etc. Edited by her Son, 1. P. Grant, Esq. New Edition. 3 vole. postSvo. Portrait, If. 11s. 6d. cloth.NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS 12 GRAY AND MITCHELL’S ORNITHOLOGY.—THE GENERA OF BIRDS: Comprising their Generic Characters, a Notice of the Habits of each Genus, and an exten- sive List of Species, referred to their several Genera. By George Robert Gray, Acad.Imp. Georg. Florent. Soc. Corresp. Senior Assistant of the Zoological Department, British Museum; and author of the “ List of the Genera of Birds,” etc. Illustrated with 330 coloured and plain Plates, drawn on Stone, by David William Mitchell, B.A.. Secretary to the Zoological Society. 3 vols. imperial Ito. 31Z. 10». half-bound morocco, gilt tops. GRAY.—TABLES AND FORMUL/E FOR THE COMPUTATION OF LIFE CONTINGENCIES ; with copious Examples of Annuity, Assurance, and Friendly Society Calculations. By Peter Gray, F.R.A.S. Associate of the Institute of Actuaries of Great Britain and Ireland. Royal 8vo. 15s. cloth. G WILT.—AN ENC VC LOP/ED IA OF ARCHITECTURE; Historical, Theoretical, and Practical. By Joseph Gwilt, Esq., F.S.A. Illustrated with upwards of 1,000 Engravings on Wood, from Designs by J. S. Gwilt. 8vo. 21. 12#. 6d. cloth. HALL.-—MIDSUMMER EVE: A Fairy Talc of Love. By Mrs. S. C. Hall. Illustrated with nearly 300 beautiful Wood Engravings. Square crown 8vo. 21#. cloth, gilt edges. HALL’S (SIDNEY) GENERAL LARGE LIBRARY ATLAS OF FIFTY- THREF MAPS (size 20 in. by /6 in.), with theDivisious and Boundaries carefully coloured ; and an Alphabetical Index of all the Names contained in the Maps, with their Latitude and Longitude. An entirely New Edition, corrected throughout from the best and most recent Authorities; with all the Railways laid down, and many of the Maps re-drawn and re-engraved. Colombier 4to. 51. 5s. half-bound in russia. SIDNEY HALL’S RAILWAY MAP OF ENGLAND AND WALES. Square foolscap 8vo. price 2s. 9d. cloth. *** The Map of England and Wales, contained in “Sidney Hall's large Library Atlas,” (size 20 in. by 16 in.) corrected and re-engraved, with all the Lines of Railway laid down, may be had separately, price 2#. 6d., coloured and mounted on folding canvas tn a case, for the pocket. HARRISON.—ON THE RISE, PROGRESS, AND PRESENT STRUCTURE OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. By the Rev. M. Harrison, M.A., late Fellow of Queen's College, Oxford. Post 8vo. 8#. 6d. cloth. HARRY HIEOVER.—STABLE TALK AND TABLE TALK; Or, SPECTACLES for YOUNG SPORTSMEN. By Harry Hieovcr. New Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. with Portrait, 24#. cloth. HARRY HIEOVER.—PRACTICAL HORSEMANSHIP. By Harry Hieover, Author of “Stable Talk and Table Talk; or Spectacles for Young Sportsmen." With 2 Plates, one representing “ Going like Workmen the other, 44 Going like Muffs.” Foolscap 8vo. 5#. half-bound. HARRY HIEOVER.—THE STUD, FOR PRACTICAL PURPOSES AND PRACTICAL MEN: being a Guide to the Choice of a Horse for use more than for show. By Harry Hieover, Author of “Stable Talk and Table Talk.” With 2 Plates, one repre- senting 44 A pretty good sort for most purposes;” the other 44 4 Rayther ’ a bad sort for any purpose.ff Foolscap 8vo. 5s. half-bouud. HARRY HIEOVER.—THE POCKET AND THE STUD; Or, Practical Hints on the Management of the Stable. By Harry Hieover, Author of 44 Stable Talk and Table Talk; or, Spectacles for Young Sportsmen.” With a Portrait of the Author on his favourite Horse 44 Harlequin.” Foolscap 8vo. 5#. half-bound. HAWKER.—INSTRUCTIONS TO YOUNG SPORTSMEN In all that relates to Guns and Shooting. By Lieut. Col. P. Hawker. 9th edition, corrected, enlarged, and improved, with Eighty-five Plates and Woodcuts, by Adlard and Branston, from Drawings by C. Varlcy, Dicks, etc. 8vo. 21#. cloth. IIAYDON (B. 11.)—LECTURES ON PAINTING AND DESIGN, Delivered at the London Institution, the Royal Institution, Albcrmarlc Street, to the University of Oxford, etc. By B. R. Haydon, Historical Painter. 2 vols. 8vo. with Por- traits of the Author and Sir David Wilkie, and numerous other I (lustrations, 24#. cloth.* PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. 13 HEAD.—HISTORICAL MEMOIRS OF CARDINAL PACCA, Prime Minister to Pope Pius VII. Written by Himself. Translated from the Italian, by Sir George Head, author of “ Home : a Tour of Many Days.” 2 vols. post 8vo. 21$. cloth. SIR GEORGE HEAD.—ROME : A TOUR OF MANY DAYS. By Sir George Head. 3 vols. 8vo. 36a. cloth. SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.—OUTLINES OF ASTRONOMY. Bv Sir John F. W. Herschel, Burt. etc. New Edition; with Plates and Engravings on Wood. 8vo. 18s. cloth. MRS. HEY.—THE MORAL OF FLOWERS ; Or, Thoughts gathered from the Field and the Garden. By Mrs. Hey. Being a New F.dition of “The Moral of Flowers;” and consisting of Poetical Thoughts on Garden and Field Flowers, accompanied by Drawings beautifully coloured after Nature. Square crown 8vo. uniform in size with “ Thomson’s Seasons illustrated by the Etching Club.” 21$. cloth. MRS. HEY.—SYLVAN MUSINCS; Or, the Spirit of the Woods. By Mrs. Hey. Being a New Edition of “The Spirit of the Woods ;” and consisting of Poetical Thoughts on Forest Trees, accompanied by Drawings of Blossoms and Foliage, beautifully coloured after Nature. Square crown 8vo. uniform in size with “Thomson’s Seasons illustrated by the Etching Club.” 21$. cloth. HINTS ON ETIQUETTE AND THE USAGES OF SOCIETY: With a Glance at Bad Habits. By KytoyOi. “Manners make the Man.” NewEdition, revised (with additions) by a Ladyof Rank. Foolscap 8vo. 2j. 6d. cloth. HOARE—A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE CULTIVATION OF THE GRAPE VINE ON OPEN WALLS. By Clement Hoare. NewEdition. 8vo. 7»- Gd. cloth. HOARE.—A DESCRIPTIVE ACCOUNT OF A NEW METHOD OF PLANTING AND MANAGING THE ROOTS OF GRAPE VINES. By Clement Hoare, author of “ A Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grape Vine on Open Walls.” 12mo. 5$. cl. HOOK (DR. W. F.)—THE LAST DAYS OF OUR LORD’S MINISTRY; A Course of Lectures on the principal Events of Passion Week. By Walter Farquhar Hook, D.D., Vicar of Leeds, Prebendary of Lincolu, and Chaplain iii Ordinary to the Queen. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. G$. cloth. HOOKER.—KEW GARDENS ; Ora Popular Guide to the Royal Botanic Gardens of Kew. By Sir William Jackson Hooker, K.H. D.C.L. F.R.A. & L.S. etc. etc. Director. New Edition; with numerous Wood- Engravings. 16mo. price Gd. sewed. HOOKER.—THE BRITISH FLORA; Comprising the Phienogamous or Flowering Plants,and the Ferns. BySir William Jackson Hooker, K.H. LL.D. F.R.A. and L.S. etc. NewEdition (1850), with numerous Additions and Corrections by the Author and G. A. Walker Arnott, LL.D. M.A. F.L.S. and R.S. Ed. and Regius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow ; with 12 Lithographic Plates, containing 173 Figures, illustrative of the Umbelliferous Plants, the Composite Plants, the Grasses, and the Ferns. 1 vol. foolscap 8vo. [Nearly ready. HORNE (THE REV. T. H.)-AN INTRODUCTION TO THE CRITICAL STUDY AND KNOWLEDGE OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES. By the Rev. Thomas Hartwell Horne, B.D. of St.John’s College, Cambridge. New Edition, revised and corrected. 5 vols. 8vo. with Maps and Fac-similes, 3/. 3$. cloth ; or 51. bound in calf by Hayday. HORNE (THE REV. T. H.)—A COMPENDIOUS INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE BIBLE. By the Rev.Thomas Hartwell Horne, B.D. of St. John's College, Cambridge. Being an Analysis of his “Introduction to the Critical Study and Knowledge of the Holy Scriptures.” NewEdition. 12mo. with Maps and Engravings, 9s. boards. HOWITT.—THE CHILDREN’S YEAR. By Mary Howitt. With Four Illustrations, engraved by John Absolon, from Original Designs by Anna Mary Howitt. Square !6mo. 5j. cloth. «- ■ -■ — ■ — ftm HOWITT.—THE BOY’S COUNTRY BOOK: Being the real Life of a Country Boy, written by Himself; exhibiting all the Amusements, Pleasures, and Pursuits of Children in the Country. Edited by William Howitt, author of “ The Rural Life of England,” etc. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. with 40 Woodcuts, 65. cloth. HOWITT.—VISITS TO REMARKABLE PLACES; Old Halls, Battle-Fields, and Scenes illustrative of Striking Passages in English History and Poetry. By William Howitt. New Edition. Medium 8vo. with 40 Woodcuts, 21a. cloth. SECOND SERIES, chiefly in the Counties of DURHAM and NORTHUMBERLAND, with a Stroll along the BORDER. With upwards of 40 highly-finished Woodcuts, from Drawings made on the spot. Medium 8vo. 21s. cloth. HOWITT.—THE RURAL LIFE OF ENGLAND. By William Howitt. New Edition, corrected and revised. With Engravings on Wood by Bewick and Williams ; uuiformwitli “ Visits to Remarkable Places.” Medium 8vo. 21s. cloth. HOWITT—THE RURAL AND DOMESTIC LIFE OF CERMANY: With Characteristic Sketches of its chief Cities and Scenery. Collected in a General Tour, and during a Residence in that Country in the Years 1840-42. By William Howitt, author of “The Rural Life of England,” etc. Medium 8vo., with above 50 Woodcuts, 21s. cloth. HOWSON—SUNDAY EVENING: Twelve Short Sermons for Family Reading. 1. The Presence of Christ; 2. Inward and Outward Life; 3. The Threefold Warning; 4. Our Father’s Business; 5.Spiritual Murder; 6. The Duty of Amiability; 7- Honesty and Candour; 8. St. Peter and Cornelius ; 9- The Midnight Traveller; 10. The Grave of Lazarus ; 11. The Resurrection of the Bodv. By the Rev. J. S. Howson, M.A., Principal of the Collegiate Institution, Liverpool, and Chaplain to the Duke of Sutherland. Foolscap 8vo. 2a. 6d. cloth. HOWSON AND CONYBEARE.—THE LIFE AND EPISTLES OF ST. PAUL. By the Rev. J. S. Howson, M.A., and the Rev. W. J. Conybeare, M.A. 2 vols.4to. very fully illustrated by W. H. Bartlett. [See p. 8. HUDSON.-THE EXECUTOR’S GUIDE. By J.C. Hudson, Esq., late of the Legacy Duty Office, London ; author of “ Plain Directions for Making Wills,” and “ The Parent’s Hand-Book.” New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. os.cloth. HUDSON—PLAIN DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING WILLS In conformity with the Law, and particularly with reference to the Act 7 Wm. IV. and 1 Viet, c. 26. To which is added, a clear Exposition of the Law relating to the Distribution of Per- sonal Estate in the case of Intestacy ; with two Forms of Wills, and much useful Information, etc. By J. C. Hudson,Esq. New Edition, corrected. Fcap.8vo.2s.6rf. cloth. %* The above two works may be had in One volume, price Js. cloth. HUMBOLDT.—ASPECTS OF NATURE, In Different Lands and Different Climates ; with Scientific Elucidations. By Alexander Von Humboldt. Translated, with the Author’s sanction and co-operation, and at his express desire, by Mrs. Sabine. IGmo. 6s. cloth: or in 2 vols. 3s. 6d. each cloth; 2s. fid. each sewed. BARON HUMBOLDT’S COSMOS; Or, a Sketch of a Physical Description of the Universe. Translated, with the Author’s sanction and co-operation, under the superintendence of Lieutenant-Colonel Edward Sabine, F.R.S. For. Sec. R.S. New Edition. Vols. I. and II.16mo. 3*. 6 d. each cloth; 2s. 6d. each sewed 1 or in post 8vo. price 12s. each. HUMPHREYS.—A RECORD OF THE BLACK PRINCE; Being a Selection of such Passages in his Life as have been most ouaintly and strikingly narrated by the Chroniclers of the Period. Embellished with highly-wrought Miniatures and Borderings, selected from various Illuminated MSS. referring to Events connected with English History. By Henry Noel Humphreys. Post 8vo. in a richly carved and deeply pierced binding, 2D. HUMPHREYS.—THE BOOK OF RUTH. From the Holy Scriptures. Embellished with brilliant coloured Borders, selected from some of the finest Illuminated MSS. In the British Museum, the Bibliothfrque Nationale, Paris, the Soane Museum, etc.; and with highly-finished Miniatures. The Illuminations executed by Henry Noel Humphreys. Square foolscap 8vo. in deeply embossed leather covers, 2D.15 PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. i>’= HUMPHREYS.—MAXIMS AND PRECEPTS OF THE SAVIOUR: Being a Selection of the most beautiful Christian Precepts contained in the Four Gospels ; illustrated by a series of Illuminations of original character, founded on the Passages— “ Behold the Fowls of the Air,” etc., “ Consider the Lilies of the Field,” etc. The Illuminations executed by Heury Noel Humphreys. Square foolscap 8vo. 21*. richly bound in stamped calf; or 30s. in morocco, by Hayday. HUMPHREYS.—THE MIRACLES OF OUR SAVIOUR. IYVith rich and appropriate Borders of original Design, a series of Illuminated Figures of the Apostles, from the Old Masters, six llluminuted Miniatures, and other Embellishments. The Illuminations executed by Henry Noel Humphreys. Square foolscap 8vo. in massive carved covers, 21*.; or bound in morocco, by Hayday, 30*. HUMPHREYS.—PARABLES OF OUR LORD. Richly Illuminated, with appropriate Borders, printed in colours and in black and gold; with a Design from one of the early German Engravers. The Illuminations executed by Henry Noel Humphreys. Square foolscap 8vo. 21*. in a massive carved binding; or 30*. bound in morocco. HUMPHREYS AND JONES. —THE ILLUMINATED BOOKS OF THE MIDDLE AGES : a series of Fac-similes of the most beautiful MSS. of the Middle Ages, printed in gold, silver, and colours, by Owen Jones ; selected and described by Henry Noel Humphrevs. Elegantly bound in antique calf: royal folio, 10/. 10*.; imperial folio (large paper), id/. 16*. HUNT.—RESEARCHES ON LIGHT: An Examination of all the Phenomena connected with the Chemical and Molecular Changes produced by the Influence of the Solar Rays; embracing all the known Photographic Pro- cesses, and new Discoveries in the Art. By Robert Hunt, Keeper of Mining Records, Museum of Economic Geology. 8vo. with Plate and Woodcuts, 10*. Gd. cloth. JAMESON (MRS.)—LEGENDS OF THE MONASTIC ORDERS: Comprising the History of the Franciscans, as connected with the Revival of Art; Legends of those Royal Personages who died in the Religious Habit; and Notes on the Remains of English Legendary Art. By Mrs. Jameson, Author of “Sacred and Legendary Art,” etc. Square crown 8vo. with numerous Illustrations. [Nearly ready. %* To be^fallowed by “Legends of the Madonna,” by the same Author, similarly illustrated. JAMESON (MRS.)—SACRED AND LEGENDARY ART. By Mrs. Jameson. With 16 Etchings by the Author, and numerous Wood Engravings. 2 vols. square crown 8vo. 42*. cloth. “ To all who have seen or who contemplate seeing the early art of Italy, these volumes will be as necessary a handbook as any oJ Murray's. Even to those who visit only our own National Gallery, Mrs. Jameson's essay will be interesting, for it will give them a vast quantity of information they did not possess before, and which will add incalculably to the pleasure with which they will inspect the pictures of the Old Masters—of ten perfectly unin- telligible without such an explanation of them as is here given."—Critic. JEBB.-A LITERAL TRANSLATION OF THE BOOK OF PSALMS; Intended to illustrate their Poetical and Moral Structure. To which are added, Disserta- tions on the word 'tSelah,,, and on the Authorship, Order, Titles, and Poetical Features of the Psalms. By the Rev. John Jebb, A.M., Rector of Peterstow. 2 vols. 8vo. 21*. cloth. JEFFREY (LORD).—CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EDINBURGH REVIEW. By Francis Jeffrey, late one of the Judges in the Court of Session in Scotland. 2d Edition. 3 vols. 8vo. 42« ■ cloth. BISHOP JEREMY TAYLOR’S ENTIRE WORKS: With the Life of Bishop Hcber. Revised and corrected by the Rev. Charles Page Eden, Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. Vols. II. 111. IV. V. VI. and VII. 8vo. 10».6<f. each, cloth. *.* In tonne of publication in 10 voh. price half-a-guinea each. Vol. I. cthe last in order of publication) mill contain Bishop llebePs Life of Jeremy Taylor, extended by the Editor. trot. P'111, fs >n the press. JOHNSON.—THE WISDOM OF THE RAMBLER, ADVENTURER, AND IDLER. Comprising a Selection of llOof the best Essays. By Samuel Johnson, LL.D. Foolscap 8vo. /*. cloth.NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS 16 JOHNSON.-THE FARMER’S ENCYCLOP/EDIA, Aud DICTIONARY of RURAL AFFAIRS : embracing all the recent Discoveries in Agri- cultural Chemistry; adapted to the comprehension of unscientific Readers. By Cuthbert W. Johnson, Esq., F.R.S. Barrister-at-Law, Editor of the ‘'Farmers’ Almanack.” etc. 8vo. with Wood Engravings,2/. 10*. cloth. JOHNSTON.—A NEW DICTIONARY OF GEOGRAPHY, Descriptive, Statistical, Physical, and Historical: forming a complete General Gaietteer. By Alexander Keith Johnston, F.R.G.S. F.G.S., Geographer at Edinburgh in Ordinary to Her Majesty; author of “The Physical Atlas of Natural Phenomena," "The National Atlas ot Commercial and Political Geography,” and “ The Atlas to Alison’s History of Europe." 8vo. SIR ROBERT KANE.—ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY, Theoretical and Practical; including the most Recent Discoveries and Applications of the Science of Medicine and Pharmacy to Agriculture and to Manufactures. By Sir Robert ' Kane, M.D. M.R.I.A. 2d Edition, corrected and greatly enlarged ; illustrated bv 230 Wood Engravings. In one large volume, 8vo. of about 1,100 pages, 288. cloth. KAY.—THE SOCIAL CONDITION AND EDUCATION OF THE PEOPLE IN ENGLAND AND EUROPE: shewing the results of the Primary Schools and of the Division of Landed Property in Foreign Countries. By Joseph Kay, Esq. M.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge; Barrister-at-Law; and late Travelling Bachelor of the University of Cambridge. 2 thick voIr. post 8vo. 21*. cloth. KEMBLE.—THE SAXONS IN ENGLAND: A History of the English Commonwealth till the period of the Norman Conquest. Bv John Mitchell Kemble, M.A. F.C.P.S., etc. 2 vols. 8vo. 28*. cloth. KENT.—ALETHEIA; Or, the Doom of Mythology. With Dther Poems. By William Charles Kent. Fcap. 8vo. 7 s. Gd. cloth. KINDERSLEY.—THE VERY JOYOUS, PLEASANT, AND REFRESHING HISTORY of the Feats, Exploits, Triumphs, and Achievements of the Good Knight, without Fear and without Reproach, the gentle Lord De Bayard. Set forth in English by Edward Cockburn Kindersley, Esq. With Ornamental Headings, and Frontispiece, by E. H. Wehnert. Square post 8vo. 9*. 6d. cloth. THE REV. DR. W.I. KIP.—THE EARLY CONFLICTS OF CHRISTIANITY. Contents.—1. Judaism, 2. Grecian Philosophy; 3. The Licentious Spirit of the Age; 4. Barbarism ; 5. The Pagan Mythology. By the Rev. Dr. W. Ingraham Kip, M.A., author of “ The Christmas Holydays in Rome.” Foolscap 8vo. os. cloth. THE REV. DR. W. I. KIP.-THE CHRISTMAS HOLYDAYS IN ROME. By the Rev. W. Ingraham Kip, D.D. Edited by the Rev. W. Sewell, B.D. Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 5s. cloth. KIRBY AND SPENCE.—AN INTRODUCTION TO ENTOMOLOGY; Or, Elements of the Natural History of Insects: comprising an account of noxious and useful Insects, of their Metamorphoses, Food, Stratagems, Habitations, Societies, Motions, Noises, Hybernation, Instinct, etc. By W. Kirby, M.A. F.R.S. & L.S. Rector of Barham; and W. Spence, Esq.,F.R.S. & L.S. NewEdition, enlarged. 2 vols. 8vo.31*. Gd. cloth. L. E. L.—THE POETICAL WORKS OF LETITIA ELIZABETH LANCON ; Comprising the 1MPUOV1SATR1CE, the VENETIAN BRACELET, the GOLDEN VIOLET, the TROUBADOUR, and other Poetical Remains. New Edition, uniform with Moore’s “ Songs, Ballads, and Sacred Songs ; ” with 2 Vignettes by Richard Doyle. 2 vols. 16mo. 10*. cloth; morocco, 21*. Also an edition in 4 vols. foolscap Svo. with Illustrations by Howard, etc. 2S*. cloth ; or bound in morocco, with gilt edges, 21. 4s. LAING.—OBSERVATIONS ON THE SOCIAL AND POLITICAL STATE OF THE EUROPEAN PEOPLE IN 1848 AND 1849 •• being the Second Series of “Notes of a Traveller.” By Samuel Laing, Esq., author of “ A Journal of a Residence in Norway,'’ “A Tour in Sweden,” the Translation of “The Heimskringla,” and of “Notes of a Tra- veller on the Social and Political State of France, Prussia,” etc. Svo. 14*. cloth. LANDOR.—THE FOUNTAIN OF ARETHUSA. By Robert Eyres Landor, M.A., author of “The Fawn of Sertorious,” “The Impious Feast,” Tragedies, etc. 2 vols. post 8vo. 18.t. cloth. 9,-as PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. 17 LARDNER’S CABINET CYCLOP/EDIA; Being a Series of Original Works on History, Biography, Natural Philosophy, Natural History, Literature, the Sciences, Arts, and Manufactures. By Bishop Thirl wall, Sir James Mackintosh, Sir John Herschel,Sir Walter Scott, Thomas Moore, Robert Southey, and other Eminent Writers. Conducted and edited by Dr. Lardner. The Series complete in One Hundred and Thirty-three Volumes, 39/. 18s. The Works separately, 6*. per volume. The Series comprises ■:— 1. Bell’s History of Russia 2. Bell’s Lives of British Poets 3. Brewster’s Treatise on Optics 4. Cooley’s History of Maritime and Inland Discovery 5. Crowe’s History of France . 6. De Morgan’s Treatise on Pro- babilities .... 7. De Sismondi’s History of the Italian Republics 8. De Sismondi’s Fall of the Homan Empire . 9. Donovan’s Treatise on Chem- istry 10. Donovan’s Domestic Economy 11. Dunham’s History of Spain and Portugal 12. Dunham’s History of Den- mark, Sweden, and Nor- way . . . 13. Dunham’s History of Poland 14. Dunham’s History of the Germanic Empire 15. Dunham’s History of Europe during the Middle Ages . 16. Dunham’s Lives of British Dramatists . 17. Dunham’s Lives of Early Writers of Great Britain . 18. Fergus’s History of the united States 19. Fosbroke’s Grecian and Ro- man Antiquities 20. Forster’s Lives of the States- men of the Commonwealth 21. Forster, Mackintosh, and Courtenay’s Lives of British Statesmen 22. Gleg’s Lives of Military Com- manders . 23. Grattau’s History of the Netherlands 24. Henslow’s Treatise on Botany «... 25. Herschel’a Treatise on As- tronomy .... 26. Herschel’s Preliminary Dis- course on the Study of Natural Philosophy . 27. History of Rome . 28. History of Switzerland . 29. Holland’s Treatise on the Manufactures in Metal 30. James’s Lives of Foreign Statesmen .... 31. Katerand Lardner’* Treatise on Mechanics 3 vols. 18.. 2 vols. 12.. 1 vol. 6.. 3 vols. 18.. 3 vols. 18*. 1 vol. 6». I vol. 6«. 2 vols. 12*. 1 vol. 6*. r, 2 vols. 12». 5 vols. 30». 3 vols. 18*. 1 vol. «». 3 vols. 18». 4 vols. 24*. 2 vols. 12». 1 vol. 6*. 2 vols. 12.. 2 vols. 12a. 5 vols. 30*. 7 vols. 42.. 3 vols. 18*. 1 vol. 6«. 1 vol. 1 vol. 6*. 1 vol. 6>. 2 vols. 12*. 1 vol. 61. 3 vols. 18 ». 5 vols. 30,. 1 vol. fi». 32. Keightley’s Outlines of His- tory . . . • . 33. Lardner’s Treatise on Arith- metic . . . 34. Lardner’sTreat. on Geometry 35. Lardner’s Treatise on Heat . 36. Lardner’s Treatise on Hydro- statics and Pneumatics 37. Lardner and Walker’s Elec- tricity and Magnetism 3S. Mackintosh, Wallace, and Bell’s History of England, 39. Montgomery and Shelley’s Lives of Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese Authors . 40. Moore’s History of Ireland . 41. Nicolas’s Chronology of History .... 42. Phillips’s Treat, on Geology 43. Powell’s History of Natural Philosophy 44. Porter’s Treatise on the Manufacture of Silk . 45. Porter’s Treatise on the Manufacture of Porcelain and Glass .... 46. Roscoe’s Lives of British Lawyers .... 47. Scott’s History of Scotland . 48. Shellev’s Lives of French Authors .... 49. Shuckard and Swainaon’s Treatise on Insects . 50. Southey’s Lives of British Admirals .... 51. Stebbing’s History of the Church .... 52. Stebbing’s History of the Reformation 53. Swainson's Preliminary Dis- course on Natural History, 54. Swainson’s Natural History and Classification of Animals 55. Swainson’s Habits and In- stincts of Animals 56. Swainson’s Quadrupeds 57. Swainson’s Birds . 58. Swainson’s Fish, Reptiles etc 59. Swainson’s Shells and Shell fish .... 60. Swainson’s Animals in Me- nageries SI. Swainson’s Taxidermy am Bibliography 62. ThirlwaU’s History of Greece 1 vol. 6,. 1 vol. 6s. 1 vol. 6». 1 vol. 6,. 1 vol. 6,. 2 vols. 12,. 10 vols. 60». 3 vols. 18». 4 vols. 24,. 1 vol. 6». 2 vols. 12*. 1 vol. 6». 1 vol. 6,. 1 vol. 6». 1 vol. 6,. 2 vels. 12,. 2 vols. 12*. 1 vol. 6,. 5 vols. 30,. 2 vols. 12,. 2 vols. 12,. 1 vol. 6,. 1 vol. 6,. 1 vol. 6,. 1 vol. 6,. 2 vols. 12,. 2 vols. 12,. 1 vol. 6,. 1 vol. 6*. 1 vol. 6,. 8 vols. 48,. 1— CNEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS 18 LATHAM.—ON DISEASES OF THE HEART. Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine ; comprising Diseases of the Heart. By P. M. Latham, M.D. Physician Extraordinary to the Queen; and late Physician to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. New Edition. 2 vols. 12mo. 16*. cloth. LEE.—TAXIDERMY; Or, the Art of Collecting, Preparing, and MountingObjects of NaturalHistory. Forthe use ! of Museums and Travellers. By Mrs 11.Lee. New Edition, improved ; with an account of a | Visit to Walton Hall, and Mr. VVaterton’s Method of Preserving Animals. Fcap. 8vo. with Woodcuts, h. LEE.-ELEMENTS OF NATURAL HISTORY; OR, FIRST PRINCIPLES OF ZOOLOGY. Forthe Use of Schools and Young Persons: comprising the Principles of Classification, interspersed with amusing and instructive Accounts of the most remarkable I Animals. By Mrs. R. Lee. New Edition, revised and enlarged; with numerous additional ’ Woodcuts. Foolscap 8vo. 7s. 6d. cloth. LESLIE (C.R.)—MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF JOHN CONSTABLE, ESQ. j R.A. Composed chiefly of his Letters. By C. R. Leslie, R. A. Second Edition, with further j Extracts from his Correspondence, two Portraits (one from a new Sketch, by Mr. Leslie), . and a Plate of “Spring,” engraved by Lucas. Square crown 8vo. 21a. cloth. LETTERS ON HAPPINESS. By the Authoress of “Letters to My Unknown Friends,” €t Twelve Years Ago, a Tale,” “ Some Passages from Modern History,” and “ Discipline.” Foolscap 8vo. LETTERS TO MY UNKNOWN FRIENDS. By a Lady. Third Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 6«. cloth. LINDLEY.—AN INTRODUCTION TO BOTANY. By Prof. J. Lindley, Ph.D., F.R.S. L.S. etc. New Edition, with Corrections and numerous Additions. 2 vols. 8vo. with Six Plates and numerous Woodcuts,24s. cloth. LINDLEY.—A SYNOPSIS OF THE BRITISH FLORA, Arranged according to the Natural Orders. By Professor John Lindley, Ph. D., F.R.S.,etc. j New Edition, with numerous Additions and Improvements. 12mo. 10s. &d. cloth. LINDLEY.—THE THEORY OF HORTICULTURE; Or, an Attempt to Explain the Principal Operations of Gardening upon Physiological Prin- I ciples. By John Lindley, Ph.D. F.R.S. 8vo. with Illustrations on Wood, 12s. cloth. LINWOOD (W.)—ANTHOLOCIA OXONIENSIS ; Sive, Florilegium e lusibus poeticis diversoruin Oxoniensium Graecis et Latinis deccrptum. » Curante Gulielmo Linwood, M.A. ASdis Christi Alummo. 8vo.l4s. cloth. LORIMER.—LETTERS TO A YOUNG MASTER MARINER On some Subjects connected with his Calling. By the late Charles Lorimer. A New Edi- tion. Foolscap 8vo. 5s. 6d. cloth. LOUDON.—THE AMATEUR GARDENER’S CALENDAR; Being a Monthly Guide, as to what should be avoided as well as what should be done in a | Garden in each Month: with plain Rules how to do what is requisite ; Directions for laying out and planting Kitchen and Flower Gardens, Pleasure Grounds, and Shrubberies; and a | short account, in each Month, of the Qundrupeds, Birds, and Insects,then most injurious to Gardens. By Mrs. Loudon. lGmo.with numerous Wood Engravings, /*• 6rf. cloth. LOUDON.-THE LADY’S COUNTRY COMPANION; Or, How to Enjoy a Country Life Rationally. By Mrs. Loudon, author of “Gardeningfor Ladies,”etc. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo., with Plate and Woodcuts, 7*. 6<f.cloth. LOUDON’S SELF-INSTRUCTION FOR YOUNG GARDENERS, Foresters, Bailiffs, Land Stewards, and Farmers; in Arithmetic, Book-keeping, Geo- metry. Mensuration, Practical Trigonometry, Mechanics, Land-Surveying, Levelling, Planning and Mapping, Architectural Drawing, and Isometrlcal Projection and Perspective; with Examples shewing their applications to Horticultural and Agricultural Purposes. With a Portrait of Mr. Loudon, and a Memoir by Mrs. Loudon. 8vo. with Wood Engravings, 7s. 6d. cloth.PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. 19 LOUDON’S ENCYCLOPEDIA OF TREES AND SHRUBS; Being the “ Arboretum et Fruticctura Britnnnicum” abridged : containing the Hardy Trees and Shrubs of Great Britain, Native and Foreign, scientifically and popularly described : with their Propagation, Culture,and Uses in the Arts. 8vo.with upwards of 2,000Engravings on Wood, 2/. 10j. cloth. LOUDON’S ENCYCLOPEDIA OF GARDENING; Comprising the Theory and Practice of Horticulture, Floriculture, Arboriculture, and Landscape Gardening: including all the latest Improvements ; a General History of Garden- ing in all Countries; and a Statistical View of its Present State ; with Suggestions for its Future Progress in the British Isles. By J. C. Loudon, F.L.S. H.S., etc. Illustrated with many hundred Engravings on Wood by Branston. An entirely New Edition (185U), cor- rected throughout and considerably improved by Mrs. Loudon. In One large Volume, 8vo. 50*. cloth. •,* The present New Edition is also in course of publication in Ten Monthly Parti, price 5s. eacht of which the First Two are now ready. LOUDON’S ENCYCLOPEDIA OF AGRICULTURE; Comprising the Theory aud Practice of the Valuation, Transfer, Laying-out, Improvement, and Management of Landed Property, and of the cultivation and economy of the Animal and Vegetable Productions of Agriculture, including all the latest improvements. Fifth Edition. 8vo. with upwards of 1,100 Engravings on Wood, by Branston, 21.10s. cloth. LOUDON’S ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PLANTS; Inctudingall the Plants which are now found in, or have beenintroducedinto,GreatBritain ; giving their Natural History, accompanied by such Descriptions, Engraved Figures, and Elementary Details, as may enable a beginner, who is a mere English reader, to discover the name of every Plant which he may find in flower, and acquire all the information respecting it which is useful and interesting. By J. C. Loudon, F.L.S., etc. The Specific Characters by an Eminent Botanist; the Drawings by J. D. C. Sowerby, F.L.S. A new Edition, with a new Supplement and a new Index. 8vo. with nearly 10,000 Wood Engravings, 73#. 6d. cloth. LOUDON’S ENCYCLOPEDIA OF COTTACE. FARM, AND VILLA ARCHITECTURE and FURNITURE. Containing Designs for Cottages, Villas, Farm Houses, Farmeries, Country Inns, Public Houses, Parochial Schools, etc.; with the requisite Fittings-up, Fixtures, and Furniture, and appropriate Offices, Gardens, and Garden Scenery: each Design accompanied by Analytical and Critical Remarks. ByJ. C. Loudon, F.L.S. etc. New Edition,Edited by Mrs. Loudon. 8vo.with more than2,000 Engravingson Wood, 63s. cloth. LOUDON’S HORTUS BRITANNICUS; Or, Catalogue of. all the Plants indigenous to or introduced into Britain. An entirely New Kdition (1850), corrected throughout: with a Supplement, including all the New Plants down to March, 1850; and a New General Index to the whole Work. Edited by Mrs.Loudon and W. H. Baxter,Esq. 8vo. [.Nearly ready. LOUDON’S HORTUS LICNOSUS LONDINENSISj Or, a Catalogue of all the Ligneous Plants cultivated in tne neighbourhood of London. To which are added their uaual Prices in Nurseries. 8vo. 7». 6<f. cloth. LOW.—ON LANDED PROPERTY, AND THE ECONOMY OF ESTATES; Comprehending the Relations between Landlord and Tenant, and the Principles and Forms of Leases; of Farm Buildings, Enclosures, Drains, Embankments, Roads, and other Rural Works, Minerals, and Woods. By David Low, Esq. F.R.S.E. etc., author of “Elements of Practical Agriculture,’’etc. 8vo. with numerous Wood Engravings,21*.cloth. LOW.—ON THE DOMESTICATED ANIMALS OF GREAT BRITAIN, Comprehending the Natural aud Economical History of the Species and Breeds; Illustrations of the Properties of External Form ; and Observations on the Principles and Practice of Breeding. By David Low, Esa., F.R.S.E., Professor of Agriculture in the University of Edinburgh, etc.; author of “ Elements of Practical Agriculture,"etc. 8vo. with Engravings on Wood, 25s. cloth, LOW’.—ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL ACRICULTURE; Comprchendingthe Cultivation of Plants, the Husbandry of the Domestic Animnls, and the Economy of the Farm. By David Low, K.sq. F.R.S.E., Professor of Agriculture in the Uni- versity of Edinburgh. New Edition. 8vo. with an entirely new set of above 200 Wood- cuts, 2U. cloth. MACAULAY.—THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, From the Accession of James II. By Thomas Bahlngton Macaulay. New Edition. Vnls. I. and 11. Svo. 321, cloth.NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS MACAULAY.—CRITICAL AND HISTORICAL ESSAYS CONTRIBUTED TO THE EDINBURGH REVIEW. By Thomas Babington Macaulay. New Edition,complete in One Volume; with Portrait by E. U. Eddis, engraved in Line bv G. W. Greatbach, and Vignette. Square crown 8vo.’ 21*. cloth; 30<r. calf extra, by Hayday. Or in 3 vols.8vo. 36*.cloth. MACAULAY.—LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME. With “ Ivrv” and “The Armada.” By Thomas Babington Macaulay. New Edition. 16mo. 4*. 6d.cloth; morocco, 10*. 6d. {bound by Hayday). MR. MACAULAY’S LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME. With numerous Illustrations, Original and from the Antique, drawn on Wood by George Scharf, jun.; and engraved by Samuel Williams. New Edition. Fcp. 4to. 21*. boards; morocco, 42*. (bound by Hayday). MACKAY (CHARLES).—THE SCENERY AND POETRY OF THE ENGLISH LAKES: a Summer Ramble. By Charles Mackay, Esq. LL.D. author of “Legends of the Isles,” “The Salamandrine,” “The Thames and its Tributaries,”etc. Svo. with beautiful Wood Engravings, from Original Sketches, 14*.cloth. MACKINTOSH’S (SIR JAMES) MISCELLANEOUS WORKS; Including his contributions to The EDINBURGH REVIEW. Edited by Robert James Mackintosh, Esq. 3 vols. 8vo. 42*.cloth. M‘CULLOCH.—A DICTIONARY, GEOGRAPHICAL, STATISTICAL, AND HISTORICAL, of the various Countries, Places, and Principal Natural Objects in the World. By J. R. M'Culloch, Esq. Illustrated with Six large Maps. New Edition (1850), corrected and in part re-written ; with a Supplement. In two thick volumes, 8vo. *,* In course of publication in TWELVE MONTHLY PARTS, each containing as touch letter-press as a large 8vo. volume. Price 5*. each. M'CULLOCH.—A DICTIONARY, PRACTICAL, THEORETICAL, AND HISTORICAL, OF COMMERCE, AND COMMERCIAL NAVIGATION. By J. R. M'Culloch, Esq. A New Edition (1850), corrected, enlarged, and improved; with a Supple- ment. 8vo. witn Maps and Plans, 50*. cloth; or 55*. strongly half-bound in russia. A SUPPLEMENT to the last Edition, published in 1849, may be had separately, price 4*. Gd. sewed. M'CULLOCH.—AN ACCOUNT, DESCRIPTIVE, AND STATISTICAL, OF the BRITISH EMPIRE; exhibiting its Extent, Physical Capacities, Population, Industry, and Civil and Religious Institutions. ByJ. R. M'Culloch, Esq. 3d Edition, corrected, enlarged, and greatly improved. 2 thick vols. 8vo. 42s. cloth. M'CULLOCH.—A TREATISE ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICAL INFLUENCE OF TAXATION AND THE FUNDING SYSTEM. By J. R. M‘Culloch, Esq. 8vo. 10s. cloth. MADAME DE MALCUET: A Tale of 1820. 3 vols. post 8vo. 31s. 6rf. boards. MAITLAND.—THE APOSTLES’ SCHOOL OF PROPHETIC INTERPRETA- TION: with its History to the Present Time. By Charles MaitUnd, author of “The Church in the Catacombs.” Svo. 12*. cloth. MAITLAND.—THE CHURCH IN THE CATACOMBS^ A Description of the Primitive Church of Rome, illustrated by its Sepulchral Remains. By Charles Maitland. New Edition, revised. 8vo. with numerous Engravings on Wood. 14*. MARCET.—CONVERSATIONS ON CHEMISTRY: In which the Elcmcntsof that Science are familiarly Explained and Illustrated by Experi- ments. By Jane Morcet. New Edition, corrected. 2 vols. foolscap 8vo. 14*. cloth. MARCET.—CONVERSATIONS ON NATURAL PHILOSOPHY; In which the Elements of that Science arc familiarly explained, and adapted to the compre- hension of Young Persons. By Jane Marcct. New Edition, enlarged and corrected, reap* 8vo. with 23 Plates, 10*. 6rf. cloth.PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. 21 MARCET.—CONVERSATIONS ON POLITICAL ECONOMY; In which the Elements of that Science are familiarly explained. By Jane Marcet. New Edition, revised and enlarged. Foolscap 8vo. 7a.dd. cloth. MARCET—CONVERSATIONS ON VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY; Comprehending the Elements of Botany, with their application to Agriculture. Marcet. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. with Four Plates, 9*. cloth. By J ane MARCET.—CONVERSATIONS ON LAND AND WATER. By Jane Marcet. New Edition revised and corrected. Foolscap 8vo. with coloured Map shewing the comparative Altitude of Mountains, 5*.6rf. cloth. MARRYAT.—BORNEO AND THE EAST INDIAN ARCHIPELAGO. By Francis S. Marryat, late Midshipman of H.M:S. Samarang, Surveying Vessel, With many Drawings of Costume and Scenery, from Original Sketches made on the spot by Mr. Marryat. ImperialSvo. with numerous Lithographic Plates and Wood Engravings, 31#. 6d. MARRYAT (CAPT.)-MASTERMAN READY; Or, the Wreck of the Pacific. Written for Young People. By Captain Marryat, C.B. author of “Peter Simple,i} etc. 3 vols.fcap.8vo. with numerous Engravings on Wood, 22*. 6d. cloth. MARRYAT.—THE PRIVATEER’S-MAN ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO. By Captain F. Marryat, C.B. author of “Peter Simple,” “Masterraan Ready,”etc. 2vuls. fcap. 8vo. 12*. cloth. MARRYAT.—THE MISSION : Or, Scenes in Africa. Written for Young People. By Captain Marryat, C.B., author of “ Peter Simple,’* “Masterman Ready,**etc. 2 vots. fcap.Svo. 12#. cloth. MARRYAT.—THE SETTLERS IN CANADA. Written for Your.g. People. By Captain Marryat, C.B. author of “Peter Simple,” “ Masterman Ready,’* etc. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. with two Illustrations,7#. 6d.cloth. MATTEUCCI.-LECTURES ON THE PHYSICAL PHCENOMENA OF LIVING BEINGS. By Signor Carlo Matteucci, Professor of the University of Pisa. Translated under the superintendence of J. Pereira, M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. 12mo. 9*. cloth. MAUNDER.—THE SCIENTIFIC AND LITERARY TREASURY : A New and Popular Encyclopsedia of Science and the Belles Lettres; includingall Branches of Science, and every Subject connected with Literature and Art. The whole written in a familiar style, adapted to the comprehension of all persons desirous of acquiring information on the subjects comprised in the work, and also adapted for a Manual of convenient Refer- ence to the more instructed. By Samuel Maunder. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 10*. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*. MAUNDER’S TREASURY OF HISTORY; Comprising a General I ntroductory Outline of Universal History, Ancient and Modern, and a Series of separate Histories of every principal Nation that exists ; developing their Rise, Progress, and Present Condition, the Moral and Social Character of their respective Inhabitants, their Religion, Manners, and Customs, etc. etc. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 10*. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*. MAUNDER’S TREASURY OF NATURAL HISTORY; Or, a Popular Dictionary of Animated Nature: in which the Zoological Characteristics that distinguish the different Classes, Genera, and Species are combined with avariety of interest- ing Information illustrative of the Habits, Instincts, and General Economy of the Animal Kingdom. To which are added, a Syllabus of Practical Taxidermy,and aGlossarial Appendix. Embellished with 900 Engravings on Wood, from Drawings made expressly for this Work. New Edition. Fcp.8vo. 10*. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*. MAUNDER’S TREASURY OF KNOWLEDGE, And LIBRARY of REFERENCE: Comprising an English Grammar; Tables of English Verbal Distinctions; Proverbs, Terms, and Phrnses, in Latin, Spanish, French, and Italian, translated; new and enlarged English Dictionary; Directions for Pronunciation; new Universal Gazetteer; Tables of Population and Statistics; List of Cities, Boroughs, and Market Towns in the United Kingdom ; Regulations of the General Post-Office ; List of Foreign Animal, Vegetable, and Mineral Productions ; compendious Classical Dictionary ; Scripture Proper Names accented, and Christian Names of Men and Women: with Latin Maxims translated ; List of Abbreviations ; Chronology and History ; compendious Law Dictionary; Abstract of Tax Acts Interest and other Tables ; Forms of Epistolary Address ; Tables of Precedency; Synopsis of the Biitish Peerage; and Tables of Number, Money, Weight* and Measures. 18th Edition, revised throughout and greatly enlarged. Foolscap 8vo. 10*. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*.22 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS MAUNDER’S BIOCRAPHICAL TREASURY: Consisting of Memoirs, Sketches, and brief Notices of above 12,000 Eminent Persons of all Ages and Nations, from the Earliest Period of History; forming* a new and complete Dic- tionary of Universal Biography. New Edition, revised throughout; with a copious Supplement. Foolscap 8vo. 10s. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*. MEMOIRS OF THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF GREAT BRITAIN, And of the Museum of Economic Geology in London. Published by order of the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Treasury. Vol. I. royal 8vo. with Woodcuts and 9 Plates, (seven coloured), 21*. cloth; and Vol. II. in two thick Parts, with 63 Plates (three coloured) and numerous Woodcuts, 42*. cloth, or, separately, 21*. each Part. Also, BRITISH ORGANIC REMAINS; consisting of Plates and Figures engraved on Steel, with descriptive Letterpress, and forming a portion of the Memoirs of the Geological Survey. Decades I. and II. royal 8vo. 2*. 6d. each, or royal 4to. 4*. 6d. each. MERIVALE.—A HISTORY OF THE ROMAMS UNDER THE EMPIRE. By the Rev. Charles Merivale, late Fellow and Tutor of St. John’s College, Cambridge. ; Vols. I. and II. 8vo. 28*. cloth. MILNER (REV. J. AND I.)-THE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF CHRIST. By the Rev. Joseph Milner, A.M. With Additions and Corrections by the late Rev. Isaac Milner, D.D. F.R.S. A New Edition, revised, with additional Notes, bv the Rev. Thomas Grantham, B.D., Chaplain to the Bishop of Kildare. 4 vols. 8vo. 52*. cloth. MITCHELL.—JOURNAL OF AN EXPEDITION INTO THE INTERIOR OF TROPICAL AUSTRALIA, in Search of a Route from Sydney to the Gulf of Carpentaria. By Lieut.-Colonel Sir T. L. Mitchell, Knt. D.C.L. Surveyor-General of New South Wales, and late elective Member of the Legislative Council of that Colony. 8vo. with Maps, Views, and Engravings of Objects of Natural History, 21*. cloth. MONTGOMERY’S (JAMES) POETICAL WORKS. With some additional Poems, and the Author’s Autobiographical Prefaces. A New Edition, complete in One Volume, uniform with Southey^s “The Doctor,” etc. and “ Commonplace Book;” with Portrait and Vignette. Square crown 8vo. 10*. 6rf. cloth ; morocco. 21*. Or in 4 vols. foolscap 8vo. with Portrait, and seven other Plates, 20*. cloth; bound in morocco, If. 16*. MONTGOMERY.—COD AND MAN. By the Rev. R. Montgomery, M.A. Oxon., author of “ The Gospel in Advance of the Age/' *• The Christian Life, etc. 8vo. [Nearly ready. MOORE.—HEALTH, DISEASE, AND REMEDY, Familiarly and practically considered in a few of their Relations to the Blood. Bv George Moore, M.D., Member of the Royal College of Physicians, etc., author of “The Power of the Soul over the Body,’* etc. Post 8vo. 7». 6d. cloth. MOORE.—THE POWER OF THE SOUL OVER THE BODY, Considered in relation to Health and Morals. Bv George Moore, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, etc. New Editiou. Post 8vo. 7*. 6d. cloth. % MOORE.—THE USE OF THE BODY IN RELATION TO THE MIND. By George Moore, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, etc. New Edition. Post8vo. 9*. cloth. MOORE.-MAN AND HIS MOTIVES. by George Moore, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, etc. New Edition. Post 8vo. 8*. cloth. MOORE’S POETICAL WORKS; Containing the Author’s recent Introduction and Notes. Complete in One Volume,uniform with Lord Byron’s Poems. Medium 8vo. with Portrait and Vignette, 1/. 1*. cloth; or 42*. j bound in morocco, by Hay day. Or in 10 vols. foolscap 8vo. with Portrait, and 19 Plates, 2/.10*. cloth; morocco,4f. 10*. THOMAS MOORE’S SONCS, BALLADS, AND SACRED SONCS. First collected Edition, uniform with the new Edition of Moore’s •• Irish Melodies ” and “ Lalla Rookh with Vignette by Richard Doyle. 16mo. 5*. cloth; or 12*. 64. bound in morocco, by Hayday. ^ —*PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND Co. 23 MOORE'S IRISH MELODIES. New Edition, uniform in size with the smaller Edition of Mr. Macaulay’s M Lays of Ancient Rome.” With the Autobiographical Preface from the Collective Edition of Mr. Moore’s Poetical Works, and a Vignette by D. Maclise, R.A. 16mo. 5s. cloth; 12*. 6d. bound in morocco, by Hayday. Or in foolscap 8vo.with Vignette byCorbould, 10*. cloth; bound in morocco,13*. 6d. MOORE’S IRISH MELODIES. Illustrated bv L). Maclise, R.A. Imperial 8vo. with 161 Designs, engraved on Steel, 31. 3*. boards; or 4/. 14*. 6d. bound in morrocco, bv Hayday. Proof Impressions (only 200 copies printed, of which a few remain), 6/. 6*. boards. MOORE’S LALLA ROOKH : AN ORIENTAL ROMANCE. New Edition, uniform in size with the smaller Edition of Mr. Macaulay’s “Lays of Ancient Rome.” With the Autobiographical Preface from the Collective Edition of Mr. Moore’s Poetical Works, and a Vignette by D. Maclise, R.A. 16mo. 5*. cloth; 12*. 6d. bound in morocco, by Hayday. Or in foolscap 8vo. with 4 Plates, by VVestall, 10*. 6d. cloth; or 14*. bound in morocco. MOORE’S LALLA ROOKH: AN ORIENTAL ROMANCE. New Edition. Medium 8vo. illustrated with 13 fine Engravings, 21s. ^oth; morocco,35».; with India Proof Plates, 42s. cloth. MORELL.—THE PHILOSOPHY OF RELIGION. By J. D. Morell, M.A., author of an Historical and Critical “View of the Speculative Philo- sophy of Europe in the Nineteenth Century.” 8vo. 12s. cloth. MOSELEY.—ILLUSTRATIONS OF PRACTICAL MECHANICS. By the Rev. H. Moseley, M.A., Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in King’s College, London; author of “The Mechanical Principles of Engineering and Architec- ture.” New Edition. Fcap.8vo. with Woodcuts,8s.cloth. MOSELEY.—THE MECHANICAL PRINCIPLES OF ENCINEERINC AND ARCHITECTURE. By the Rev. H. Moseley, M. A. F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy and Aatronomy in King’s College, London; and author of “ Illustrations of Practical Mechanics,” etc. 8vo.with Woodcuts and Diagrams, 11.4s. cloth. MOSHEIM’S ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, Ancient and Modern. Translated, with copious Notes, by James Murdock, D.D. New Edition, revised, and continued, by the Rev. Henry Soames, M.A. 4 vols. 8vo. 48s. cloth. MURE.-A CRITICAL HISTORY OF THE LANCUACE AND LITERA- TURE OF ANCIENT GREECE. By William Mure, M.P., of Caldwell. 3 vols. 8vo. 36s. cloth. MURRAY.—AN ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF CEOCRAPHY ; Comprising a complete Description of the Earth: exhibiting its Relation to the Heavenly Bodies, its Physical Structure, the Natural History of each Country, and the Industry, Com- merce, Political Institutions, and Civil and Social State of all Nations. By Hugh Murray, F.R.S.E. New Edition; with 82 Maps, and upwards of 1,000 other Wood Engravings. In One large Volume, 8vo. 31. cloth. NECKER DE SAUSSURE.—PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION: Or, Considerations on the Course of Life. Translated and Abridged from the French of Madame NeckerDc Saussure, by Miss Holland. 3 vols. foolscap 8vo. 19s. 6d. cloth. *.* Separately—Vols. I. and II. 12s.; Vol. III. 7s. 6d. NEALE.—THE CLOSING SCENE: Or, Christianity and Infidelity contrasted in the Last Hours of Remarkable Persons. By the Rev. Erskine Neale, M.A., Rector of Kirton, Suffolk ; author of “ The Bishop’s Daughter,” “Self-Sacrifice,” “The Life-Book of a Labourer," etc. 2 vols. fcap.8vo. 13s. cloth. *•* Separately (First Series), 6s.; Vol. II. (Second Series), 7s. NEWMAN.-DISCOURSES ADDRESSED TO MIXED CONGREGATIONS. By John Henry Newman, Priest of the Oratory of St. Philip Neri. Second Edition. 8vo. 12s. cloth.24 NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS OSBORNE.—OCEANUS ; Or, a Peaceful Progress o'er the Unpathed Sea. By Mrs. David Osborne. With Five Illus- trations, engraved on Wood from Designs by A. Cooper, K.A. Square l'2mo. It. 6i. cloth. *** Hpr Majesty the Queen has been graciously pleased to accept and acknowledge a copy of this Work for the use of the Royal Children. OWEN JONES.—FLOWERS AND THEIR KINDRED THOUCHTS: A Series of Stanzas. By Mary Anne Bacon, author of “ Fruits from the Garden and the Field.” With beautiful Illustrations of Flowers, designed and printed in Colours by Oweii Jones. Imperial 8vo. 31s. 6d. elegantly bound. OWEN JONES.—FRUITS FROM THE CARDEN AND THE FIELD. A Series of Stanzas. By Mary Anne Bacon, author of “ Flowers and their kindred Thoughts.” With beautiful Illustrations of Fruit, designed and printed in Colours by Owen Jones. Im- perial 8vo. 31s. 6d. elegantly bound. OWEN JONES’S ILLUMINATED EDITION OF CRAY’S ELEGY. GRAY’S ELEGY. WRITTEN IN A COUNTRY CHURCHYARD. Illuminated, in the Missal style, by Oweu Jones, Architect. Imperial 3vo. 31*. Gd. elegantly bound. OWEN JONES’S ILLUMINATED EDITION OF THE SERMON ONTHE MOUNT. THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT. Printed in Gold and Colours, in the Missal style; with Ornamental Borders by Owen Jones, Architect; and an Illuminated Frontispiece by W. Boxall, Esq. New Edition. Square foolscap 8vo., in rich silk covers, 21*.; or bound in morocco, by Hayday, 25*. OWEN JONES’S ILLUMINATED EDITION OF THE MARRIACE SERVICE. THE FORM OF SOLEMNIZATION OF MATRIMONY. From “The Book of Common Prayer.” Illuminated, in the Missal style, by Owen Jones. Square 18mo. 21*. elegantly bound in white calf. OWEN JONES’S ILLUMINATED EDITION OF THE PREACHER. The Words of the Preacher, Son of Davicf, King of Jerusalem. From the Holy Scriptures. Being the Twelve Chapters of the Book of Ecclesiastes, elegantly illuminated, in the Missal style, by Owen Jones. Imperial 8vo. in very massive carved covers, 42*.; or handsomely bound in calf, 31*. 6d. OWEN JONES’S ILLUMINATED EDITION OF SOLOMON'S SONC. THE SONG OF SONGS, WHICH IS SOLOMON’S. From the Holy Scriptures. Being the Six Chapters of the Book of the Song of Solomon, richly illuminated, in the Missal style, by Owen Jones. Elegantly bound in relievo leather. Imperial 16mo. 21*. OWEN JONES’S TRANSLATION OF D’ACINCOURT’S HISTORY OF ART. THE HISTORY OF ART, BY ITS MONUMF.NTS, from its Decline in the Fourth Century to its Restoration in the Sixteenth. Translated from the French of Seroux d’Agincourt, by i Owen Jones, Architect. In 3,335 Subjects, engraved on 328 Plates. Vol. I .—Architecture, ' 73 Plates; Vol. 11.—Sculpture, 51 Plates; Vol. III.—Painting, 204 Plates. 3- vols. royal folio, bl. 5s. sewed. OWEN.—LECTURES ON THE COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AND PHYSI- OLOGY OF THE INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeon* in 1843. By Richard Owen, F.R.S. Hunterian Professor to the College. From Notes taken by William White Cooper, M.R.C.S. and revised by Professor Owen. With Glossary and Index. 8vo. with nearly 140 Woodcuts, 14*. cloth. OWEN.—LECTURES ON THE COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY of the VERTEBRATE ANIMALS, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons in 1844 and 1846. By Richard Owen, F.R.S. Hunterian Professor to the College. In 2 vols. Vol. I. 8vo. with numerous Woodcuts, 14*. cloth. PALEY’S EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY; AND HOR/E PAULIN/E. A New Edition, with Notes, an Analysis, and a Selection of Papers from the Senate-House and College Examination Papers. Designed for the use of Students in the Uuiversity. By Robert Potts, M.A. Trinity College, Cambridge. 8vo. 10*. 6d. cloth. PARKES.—DOMESTIC DUTIES; Or, Instructions to Young Married Ladies on the Management of their Households and the Regulation of their Conduct in the various Relations and Duties of Married Life. By Mr*. W.Parkcs. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 0*. cloth. *PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND CO. 25 PASCAL.—THE PROVINCIAL LETTERS OF PASCAL: With an “ Essay on Pascal, considered as a Writer und Moralist.” By M. Villeraain, Peer of France, late Minister of Public Instruction, etc. Newly Translated from the French, with Memoir, Notes, and Appendix, by George Pearce, Esq. PostSvo. 8*. 6d. cloth. PASCAL.-THE MISCELLANEOUS WRITINCS OF PASCAL. Consisting of Correspondence with Relatives and Frieuds; Letter on the Death of his Father, in a complete state, from original Sources; Philosophical Treatises; Discourse on the “ Passion of Love” (lately discovered) ; Essay on the Art of Persuasion, and Notes on Eloquence and Style; Conversations—on the Condition of the Great, etc.; Detached Thoughts and Notes, etc. etc : the greater Part never before published in this Country, and large Portions from original Manuscripts. Arranged and Translated from the French Edition ot M. P. Faugfere, with Introduction, Editorial Notices, Notes, etc., by George Pearce, Esq. Post 8vo. 8s. 6d. cloth. PASCAL'S THOUGHTS ON RELICION, AND EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY. Newly translated and arranged, with large Additions, from Original Manuscripts, from the French Edition of Mons. P. Faug&re: with Introduction, Notes, etc. By G. Pearce, Esq. Forming the Third and concluding Volume of Mr. Pearce’s Translation of Pascal’s Works. Post 8vo. 8j. 6d. cloth. PEREIRA.—A TREATISE ON FOOD AND DIET: With Observations on the Dietetical Regimen suited for Disordered States of the Digestive Organs; and an Account of the Dietaries of some of the principal Metropolitan and other Establishments for Paupers, Lunatics, Criminals, Children, the Sick, etc. By Jon. Pereira, M.D. F.R.S., author of ‘‘Elements of Materia Medica.” 8vo.16j. cloth. PESCHEL (C. F.)—ELEMENTS OF PHYSICS, By C. F. Peschel, Principal of the Royal Military College, Dresden, etc. etc. Translated from the German, with Notes, by E. West. 3 vols. fcap. 8vo. with Woodcuts,21s.cloth. f Part I. The Physics of Ponderable Bodies. Fcap.8vo.7s. 6rf. cloth. Separately.' Part II. Imponderable Bodies (Light, Heat, Magnetism,Electricity, L and Electro-Dynamics). 2 vols. fcap. 8vo. 13s. 6d. cloth. PHILLIPS.—FIGURES & DESCRIPTIONS OF THE PALAEOZOIC FOSSILS OF CORNWALL, DEVON, and WEST SOMERSET ; observed in the course of the Ordnance Geological Survey of that District. By John Phillips, F.R.S. F.G.S. etc. Published by Order of the Lords Commissioners of H.M. Treasury. 8vo. with 60 Plates, comprising ! very numerous Figures, 9«. cloth. PHILLIPS.—AN ELEMENTARY INTRODUCTION TO MINERALOGY ; Comprising a Notice of the Characters, Properties, and Chemical Constitution of Minerals: with Accounts of the Places and Circumstances in which they are found. By William Phillips, F.L.S. M.G.S. etc. A New Edition, corrected, enlarged, and improved, by W. H. Miller, M.A. F.R S. Professor of Mineralogy in the University of Cambridge. 8vo. with numerous Wood Engravings. [In the press. PLUNKETT.—THE PAST AND FUTURE OF THE BRITISH NAVY. By Captain the Hon. E. Plunkett, R.N. 2d Edition, corrected and enlarged! with Notes, and New Information communicated by several Officers of Distinction. Post Bvo. 8r. 6d. FOUTLOCK. -REPORT ON THE CEOLOCY OF THE COUNTY OF LONDONDERRY, and of Parts of Tyrone nnd Fermanagh, examined and described under the Authority of the Master-General and Board of Ordnance. By J. E. Portlock.F.R.S.etc. 8vo. with 48 Plates, 24s.cloth. POWER.—SKETCHES IN NEW ZEALAND, with Pen and Pencil. By W. Tyrone Power, D.Aj try, from July 1846 to June 1848. the spot. Post Bvo. 12s. cloth. “i v.n.C.G. From a Journal kept in that Coun- ts ith 8 Plates and 2 Woodcuts, from Drawings made on PYCROFT.—THE COLLEGIAN’S CUIDE; Or, Rerollections of College Days-, setting forth University Education. By the Rev. James Pycroft Reading," etc. Post 8vo. 10s. 6<f. cloth. ' the Advantages and Temptations of a B.A., author of “ A Course of English PYCROFT.-A COURSE OF ENGLISH READING: Adapted to every Taste and Cnpacity. With Literary Anecdotes. By Pycroft, B. A. ,anthorof“ The Collegian's Guide,"etc. New Edition. Fc the Rev. Jnmcs Fcap. 8vo. 6s. cloth.X RANKE (PROFESSOR).—RANKE’S HISTORY OF THE REFORMATION. Translated by Sarah Austin, translator of Ranke’s “History of the Popes.” Vols. I.and II. 8vo. 30s.; Vol. III. 18j. cloth. READER (THOMAS).—TIME TABLES, CONSISTING OF 365 TABLES, Shewing, without calculation, the Number of Days from every Day in the Year to any other Day, for any Period not exceeding 305 Days. Compiled to facilitate the Operation of Discounting Bills, and the Calculation of Interest on Banking and Current Accounts, etc. By Thomas Reader. Post 8vo. 14*. cloth, or 17*. calf lettered. DR. REECE’S MEDICAL GUIDE; For the use of the Clergy, Heads of Families, Schools, and Junior Medical Practitioners. Comprising a complete Modern Dispensatory, and a Practical Treatise on the distinguishing Symptoms, Causes, Prevention, Cure, and Palliation of'the Diseases incident to the Human Frame. With the latest Discoveries in the different Departments of the Healing Art, Materia Medica, etc. Seventeenth Edition (1850), with considerable Additions; revised and corrected by the Author’s Son, Dr. Henry Reece, M.R.C.S. etc. 8vo. 12*. cloth. RICH.—THE ILLUSTRATED COMPANION TO THE LATIN DICTIONARY AND GREEK LEXICON: forming a Glossary of all the Words respecting Visible Objects connected with the Arts, Manufactures, and Every-day Life of the Ancients. With Repre- sentations of nearly Two Thousand Objects from the Antique. By Anthony Rich, jun. B.A. late of Caius College, Cambridge. Post 8vo. with about 2,000 Woodcuts, 215.cloth. RICHTER.—LEVANA ; OR, THE DOCTRINE OF EDUCATION. Translated from the German of Jean Paul Fr. Richter. Post 8vo. 10*.Gd. cloth. RIDDLE.—A COPIOUS AND CRITICAL LATIN-ENCLISH LEXICON, Founded on the German-Latin Dictionaries of Dr. William Freund. By the Rev. J. E. Riddle, M.A., author of “A Complete Latin-English and English-Lutin Dictionary,” “Ecclesiastical Chronology,” etc. Post 4to. uniform with “Yonge’s English-Greek Lexi- con,” 50s. cloth. RIDDLE.—A COMPLETE LATIN-ENCLISH AND ENCLISH-LATIN DIC- TIONARY, for the use of Colleges and Schools. By the Rev. J. E. Riddle, M.A. New Edition. 8vo. 31*. 6d. cloth. •#* Separately—The English-LatinDictionary, 10*. 6rf.; the Latin-English Dictionary, 21*. RIDDLE.—A DIAMOND LATIN-ENCLISH DICTIONARY. A Guide to the Meaning, Quality, and right Accentuation of Latin Classical Words. By the Rev. J. E. Riddle, M.A. New Edition. Royal 32mo.4*. bound. RIVERS.—THE ROSE AMATEUR’S GUIDE: Containing ample Descriptions of all the fine leading varieties of Roses, regularly classed in their respective Families; their History and Mode of Culture. By T. Rivers, Jun. Fourth Edition, corrected and improved. Foolscap 8vo. 6*. cloth. ROBINSON.—THE WHOLE ART OF MAKING BRITISH WINES, CORDIALS, AND LIQUEURS, IN THE GREATEST PERFECTION ; AS ALSO STRONG AND CORDIAL WATERS. To which is added, a Collection of Valuable Recipes for Brewing Fine and Strong Ales, and Miscellaneous Articles connected with the Practice. By Janies Robinson. Fcap. 8vo. 6>. cloth. ROBINSON (JAMES).—THE WHOLE ART OF CURING, PICKLING, and SMOKING MEAT and FISH, both in the British and Foreign Modes. With many useful Miscellaneous Recipes, and full Directions for the Construction of an Economical Drying Chimney and Apparatus, on an entirely new Plan. By James Robinson, Eighteen Years a Practical Curer. Fcap. 8vo. 4*. 6d. cloth. ROGERS.—ESSAYS SELECTED FROM CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EDINBURGH REVIEW. By Henry Rogers. 2 vols. 8vo. 24*. cloth. ROGERS.-THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR; Containing a plain and accurate Description of all the different Species of Culinary Vegetables, with the most approved Method of Cultivating them by Natural and Artificial Moans, and the best Modes of Cooking them. By John Rogers, author of “The Fruit Cultivator.” New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. Is. cloth.27 PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND CO. —m RONALDS.—THE FLY-FISHER’S ENTOMOLOGY. Illustrated by coloured Representations of the Natural and Artificial Insect; and accompanied by a few Observations and Instructions relative to Trout-aud-Grayling-Fishing. By Alfred Ronalds. Fourth Edition, corrected ; with 20 Copperplates. 8vo. 14». cloth. ROWTON (F.)—1THE DEBATER; Being a Series of complete Debates, Outlines of Debates, and Questions for Discussion. With ample references to the best sources of information upon each particular topic. By Frederic Rowton, Lecturer on General Literature. Foolscap 8vo. 6a. cloth. SANDFORD (REV. JOHNJ.-PAROCHIALIA, Or Church, School, and Parish. By the Rev. John Sandford, B.D. Vicar of Duuchurch, Chaplain to the Lord Bishop of Worcester, Hon. Canon of Worcester, and Rural Dean. 8vo. with numerous Woodcuts, 16s. cloth. SCHLEIDEN.—PRINCIPLES OF SCIENTIFIC BOTANY ; or, Botany as an Inductive Science. By Dr. M. J. Schleiden, Extraordinary Professor of Botany in the University of Jena. Translated by Edwin Lankester, Rl.D., F.L.S., Lecturer on Botany at the St. George’s School of Medicine, London. 8vo. with Plates and Woodcuts 21s. cloth. SCOFFERN.—THE MANUFACTURE OF SUCAR, in the Colonies and at Home, chemically considered. By John Scoffern, M.B. Lond., late Professor of Chemistry at the Aldersgate School of Medicine. 8vo. with Illustrations (one coloured), 10>. 6d.cloth. SEAWARD.—SIR EDWARD SEAWARD’S NARRATIVE OF HIS SHIPWRECK, and consequent Discovery of certain Islands in the Caribbean Sea: with a Detail of many extraordinary and highly interesting Events in his Life, from 1/33 to 1749, as written in his own Diary. Edited by Miss Jane Porter. NewEdition. 2 vols. post 8vo. 21s. cloth. SEWELL.—AMY HERBERT. By a Lady. Edited by the Rev. William Sewell, B.D., Fellow and Tutor of Exeter Col- lege, Oxford. NewEdition. 2 vols. foolscap 8vo. 9s. cloth. SEWELL.—THE EARL’S DAUCHTER. By the Author of "Amy Herbert,” “Gertrude,” “ Laneton Parsonage,” “Margaret Per- cival,” and “The Child’s History of Rome.” Edited by the Rev. William Sewell B D Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford. Foolscap 8vo. ’ ’’ SEWELL.—GERTRUDE. A Tale. By the author of “Amy Herbert.” Edited by the Rev. William Sewell B D Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford. NewEdition. 2 vols. foolscap 8v0. 9s. cloth!’ SEWELL.—LANETON PARSONACE: A Tale for Children, on the practical use of a portion of the Church Catechism Bv the author of “Amy Herbert,” Edited by the Rev. W. Sewell, B.D., Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford. NewEdition. 3 vols. fcap. 8vo. 16s. cloth. SEWELL.—MARGARET PERCIVAL. By the Author of “Amy Herbert.” Edited by the Rev. W. Sewell, B.D., Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford. NewEdition. 2 vols. foolscap 8vo. 12s. cloth. SHAKSPEARE, BY BOWDLER. THE FAMILY SHAKSPEARE , in which nothing is added to the Original Text j butthose Words and Expressions are omitted which cannot with propriety be read aloud Bv T Bowdlcr, Esq. F.R.S. New Edition. 8vo. with 36 Illustrations after Smirke. etc 21s.’ cloth! or, without Illustrations, 8 vols. 8vo. 4/.14s. 6<f.boards. * SHORT WHIST: Its Rise, Progress,,andLaws;with the recent Decisions of the Clubs.and Observations to make any one a Whlst Plavcr. Containing also the Laws of Piquet, Cassino. Ecarte, Cribbage, Backgammon By Major A * * * • •NewEdition. Towhlcli arc added, Precept, for Tyro.’ ByMrs.B** •*• Foolscap 8vo. 3s. cloth, gilt edges. ' ’ SINCLAIR.—SIR EDWARD GRAHAM. By Catherine Sinclair, author of “Modern Accomplishments.” etc. 31s. 6<f. boards. 3 voIb. post 8vo. k28 NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS SINCLAIR.—THE BUSINESS OF LIFE. By Catherine Sinclair, author of “The Journey of Life,” “Jane Bouverie,*’ “ Modern • Accomplishments,” “ Modern Society,” etc. 2 vols. fcap. 8vo. 10*. cloth. SINCLAIR.—THE JOURNEY OF LIFE. By Catherine Sinclair, author of “ The Business of Life,” “Modern Society,” “ Jane Bouverie,”etc. New Edition, corrected and enlarged. Fcap.8vo.5s. cloth. SIR ROGER DE COVERLEY. By the Spectator. With Notes and Illustrations by W. Henry Wills ; and numerous Designs hv Frederick Tavler, Member of the Society of Painters in Water Colours, engraved on Wood by John Thompson. Crown 8vo. [Nearly ready. THE sketches; ThreeTales. By the Authors of “Amy Herbert,” “The King’s Messengers,” and** Hawk- stone.” New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. with six Plates, 8s. cloth. THE WORKS OF THE REV. SYDNEY SMITH. Comprising the Author's Miscellaneous Writings, and Contributions to the Edinburgh Review. New Edition, complete in One Volume ; with Portrait by E. U. Eddis, engraved in Line by W. Greatbach, and View of Combe Florey Rectory, Somerset. Square crown 8vo. 21s. cloth; 30s. calf extra, by Hayday. Or in 3 vols. 8vo. with Portrait, 36s. cloth. SMITH.—ELEMENTARY SKETCHES OF MORAL PHILOSOPHY, Delivered at the Royal Institution in the Years 1804,1805, and 1806. By the late Rev. Sydney Smith, M.A. With an Introductory Letter to Mrs. Sydney Smith, by the late Lord Jeffrey. Svo. 12s. cloth. SMITH.—SERMONS PREACHED AT ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL, the Foundling Hospital, and several Churches in London j together with others addressed to a Country Congregation. By the late Rev. Sydney Smith, Canon Residentiary of St. Paul's Cathedral. 8vo. 12s. cloth. SMITH.—THE VOYAGE AND SHIPWRECK OF SAINT PAUL: with Dissertations on the Sources of the Writings of St. Luke, and the Ships and Navigation of the Antieuts. By James Smith, Esq. of Jordanhill, F.R.S. etc. 8vo. with illustrative Views, Charts, and Woodcuts, 14s. cloth. SMITH.—SACRED ANNALS: Or Researches into the History and Religion of Mankind, from the Creation of the World to the Death of Isaac : deduced from the Writings of Moses and other Inspired Authors, copiously illustrated and confirmed by the ancient Records, Traditions, and Mythology of the Heathen World. By George Smith, F.S.A. etc. Crown 8vo. 10s. cloth. * • r«I. II- comprising the History and Religion of the Hebrew People, from the origin of the Nution to the time of Christ. Crown Svo. in 2 Parts, 12*. cloth. THE RELICION OF ANCIENT BRITAIN HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED: Or a Succinct Account of the several Religious Systems which have obtained in this Island from the Enrliest Times to the Norman Conquest: including an Investigation into the Early Progress of Error in the Christian Church, the Introduction of the Gospel into Britain, and the State of Religion in England till Popery had gained the Ascendancy. By George Smith, F.A.S. New Edition. 8vo. 7s. 6d.cloth. PERILOUS TIMES: Or. the Agressions of Anti-Christian F.rror on Scriptural Christianity: considered in refer- ence to the Dangers and Duties of Protestants. By George Smith, F.A.S. Member of the Royal Asiatic Society, and of the Royal Socictyof Literature. Foolscap8vo. 61. cloth. SOAMES.—THE LATIN CHURCH DURINC ANCLO-SAXON TIMES. By the Rev. Henry Soamcs, M.A., Editor ot “Musheims Institutes of Ecclesiastical History.” 8vo. 14s.cloth. SOME PASSAGES FROM MODERN HISTORY. By the Author of “ Letters to My Unknown Friends,” and “Twelve Years Ago.’1 Foolscap Svo.Gs.fid.cloth.29 PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND CO. THE SONG OF SONGS, WHICH IS SOLOMON'S. From the Holy Scriptures. Being the Six Chapters of the Book of the Song of Solomon, richly illuminated, in the Missal Style, by Owen Jones. Elegantly bound in relievo leather. Imperial 16mo.2l*. SOUTHEY—THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF THE LATE ROBERT SOUTHEY. Edited by his Son, the Rev. Charles Cuthbert Southey, M.A. To be completed in Six Volumes, each containing a Family Portrait, and a Landscape Illustration by W. Westall. Vols. 1. to IV. are now ready ; Vol. V. will be published at the end of June, and Vol. VI. at the end of August. SOUTHEY’S COMMON-PLACE BOOK. Edited by his Son-in-Law, the Rev. John Wood Waiter. First Series, comprising CHOICE PASSAGES, Moral, Religious, Political, Philosophical, Historical, Poetical, ana Miscella- neous ; and COLLECTIONS for the History of Manners and Literature in England. Form- ing a volume complete in itself. New Edition ; with medallion Portrait of Southey. Square crown Svo. 18*. cloth. SOUTHEY’S COMMON-PLACE BOOK. Edited by his Sou-in Law, the Rev. John Wood Warter, B.D. Second Series, being SPECIAL COLLECTIONS; comprising, 1.—Ecclcsiasticals, or Notes and Extracts on Theological Subjects ; 2 Collections concerning Cromwell’s Age ; 3.—Spanish and Portu- guese Literature ; 4.—Middle Ages, etc.; 5 —Notes for the History of the Religious Orders ; 6.—Orientalia, or Eastern and Mahommedan Collections ; 7-—American Tribes: Incidental and Miscellaneous Illustrations ; 8.—Physica, or Remarkable Facts in Natural History; and 9.—Curious Facts, quite Miscellaneous. Forming a Volume complete in itself. Square crown 8vo. 18*. cloth. •** The Third Series, comprising ANALYTICAL READINGS, is nearly ready. SOUTHEY—THE DOCTOR, ETC. By the late Robert Southey. Complete in One Volume. Edited by the Author’s Son-in- Law, the Rev. John Wood Warter. With Portrait, Vignette Title-page, Bust of the Author, and Coloured Plate. New Edition. Square crown 8vo. 2J*. cloth. SOUTHEY.—THE LIFE OF WESLEY, And Rise and Progress of Methodism. By Robert Southey, Esq. LL.D. New Edition, with Notes by the late Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Esq., aud Remarks on the Life and Character of John Wesley, by the late Alexander Knox, Esq. Edited by the Rev. Charles Cuthbert Southey, MA. 2 vols. 8vo. with two Portraits, If. 8*. cloth. ROBERT SOUTHEY’S COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS: Containing allthe Author’s last Introductions and Notes. Complete in One Volume,24*. 6d.» with Portrait and Vignette, uniform with Byron’s and Moore’s Poetical Works. Medium 8vo. 21*. cloth; 42*. bound in morocco, by Hayday. Or in 10 vols.foolscap8vo. with Portrait and 19 Plates, 21.10*.; morocco, 41.10*. SOUTHEY.—SELECT WORKS OF THE BRITISH POETS: From Chaucer to Withers. With Biographical Sketches, by it.Southey, LL.D. Medium 8vo. 30s. cloth; or, with gilt edges, 31». 6d. STEEL’S SHIPMASTER’S ASSISTANT. Compiled for the use of Merchants, Owners and Masters of Ships, Officers of Customs, and nil Persons connected with Shipping or Commerce ; containing the Law and Local Regula- tions affecting the Ownership, Charge, and Management of Ships and their Cargoes ; together with Notices of other Matters, and all necessary Information for Mariners. New Edition, rewritten throughout. Edited by Graham Willmorc, Esq. M.A. Barrister-at-Law ;* George Clements, of the Customs, London, and William Tate, author of “The Modem Cambist.” Svo. 28s. cloth; or 29>. bound. 8TEPHEN.—ESSAYS IN ECCLESIASTICAL BlOCRAPHY. By the Right Hon. Sir James Stephen, K.C.B. 2 vols. 8vo. 24*. cloth. STEPHEN.—THE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND, From the Reformation to the Present Time. By Thomas Stephen, author of “ The Book of the Constitution,” “ Spirit of the Church of Rome,” etc. 4 vols. Svo. with 24 highly-finished Portraits, engraved on Steel, 32s. cloth. STEPHENS.-A MANUAL OF BRITISH COLEOPTERA ; Or, BEETLES: containing a Description of ail the Species of Beetles hitherto ascertained to inhabitGreat Britain and Ireland, etc. By J. F. Stephens, F.L.S. Post 8vo. 14s .cloth30 NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS STOW.—THE TRAININC SYSTEM, THE MORAL TRAINING SCHOOL ANn THE NORMAL SEMINARY. By Dav’id Stow, Ks^Honorf^ ?i°[enrin;rvLoTcrs'y;p^f87o.li;d«hTra1niD,r,fle,c-Eigh,hKdition’eniarKcd; SWAIN.—ENCLISH MELODIES. By Charles Swain, author of “The Mind, and other Poems.” Fcap. 8vo. 6*. cloth. TATE.—THE CONTINUOUS HISTORY OF THE LIFE AND WRITINCS OF ST. P AUL, on the basis of the Acts ; with Intercalary Matter of Sacred Narrative, supplied froni the Epistles, and elucidated in occasional Dissertations: with the Hor® Paulin® of Dr. Paley, in a more correct edition, subjoined. By James Tate, M.A. 8vo. Map,13». cloth. TAYLER (REV. CHARLES B.)—MARC A RET; Or, the Pearl. By the Rev. Charles B. Tayler, M.A., author of “ Lady Mary : or. Not of the World;’* etc. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 6$. cloth. TAYLER (REV.CHARLES B.)—LADY MARY; OR, NOT OF THEWORLD. •By the Rev. Charles B. Tayler, author of “ Margaret, or the Pearl,’* etc. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. with Frontispiece, 6$. 6d. cloth. TAYLOR.—THE VIRGIN WIDOW: A Play. By Henry Taylor, author of “The Statesman,” ' the Fair,” etc. Foolscap 8vo. 6s. cloth. Philip Van Artevelde,” “ Edwin TAYLOR.—LOYOLA AND JESUITISM : In its Rudiments. By Isaac Taylor, author of •* Natural History of Society.” With medal- lion Portrait. Post 8vo. 10$. 6d. cloth. THIRLWALL.—THE HISTORY OF CREECE. By the Right Rey. the Lord Bishop of St. David’s. A new Edition, revised; with Notes. Vols. 1. to V. Svo.with Maps, 12s. each cloth. To be completed in 8 volumes. •.* Also, an Edition in 8 volt. /cap. 8vo. with Pignette Titlet, 21.8«. cloth. THOMSON’S SEASONS. Edited by Bolton Corney, Esq. Illustrated with Seventy-seven Designs drawn on Wood by the Members of the Etching Club. Engraved by Thompson and other eminent Engravers. Square crown 8vo. uniform with “ Goldsmith's Poems,” 21$. cloth; bound in morocco, by Hayday, 86$. THOMSON’S SEASONS. Edited, with Notes, Philosophical, Classical, Historical,and Biographical, by AnthonyTodd Thomson, M D. F.L.S., Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, and of Forensic Medicine, in University College, London, etc. Fcap. 8vo. 7s. 6d. cloth. THOMSON.-THE DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK ROOM, Necessary, in Aid of Medical Treatment, for the Cure of Diseases. By Anthony Todd Thomson, M.D. F.L.S. etc. New Edition. Post8vo. 10$. 6d. cloth. THOMSON (JOHN).—TABLES OF INTEREST, At Three, Four, Four-and-a-half, and Five per Cent., from One Pound to Ten Thousand, and from One to Three Hundred and Sixty-five Days, iu a regular progression of Single Days; with Interest at all the above Rates, from One to Twelve Months, and from One to Ten Years. Also, Tables shewing the Exchange on Bills, etc.etc. etc. By JohnThomson, Accountant. New Edition. 12mo. 8$. bound. THOMSON.—EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES ON THE FOOD OF ANIMALS, AND THE FATTENING OF CATTLE: with Remarks on the Food of Man. By Robert Dundas Thomson, M.D. author of “School Chemistry, or Practical Rudiments of the Science.” Fcap. 8vo. 5$. cloth. THOMSON.—SCHOOL CHEMISTRY ; Or Practical Rudiments of the Science. By Robert Dundas Thomson, M.D. Master in Surgery in the University of Glasgow ; Lecturer on Chemistry in the same University ; and formerly in the Medical Service of the Honourable East India Company. Foolscap 8ro. with Woodcuts, Is. cloth.X- PUBLISHED BY MESSES. LONGMAN AND CO. THE THUMB BIBLE; „ „ Or, Verbum Sempiternum. By J. Taylor. Being an Epitome of the Old and New Testa- ments in English Verse. Printed from the Edition of 1693, by C. Whittingham, Chiswick. 64wo. Is. 6d. bound and clasped. TOMLINE (BISHOP).—AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OFTHEBIBLE: Being the First Volume of the Elements of Christian Theology ; containing Proofs of the Authenticity and Inspiration of the Holy Scriptures ; a Summary of the History of the Jews \ an Account of the Jewish Sects ; and a brief Statement of the Contents of the several Books ofthe Old Testament. By the late George Tomline, D.D.F.R.S. New Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 5s. 6d. cloth. TOOKE.—THE HISTORY OF PRICES: With reference to the Causes of their principal Variations, from the year 1792 to the year 1838, inclusive. Preceded by a Sketch of the History of the Corn Trade in the last Two Centuries. By Thomas Tooke, Esq. F.R.S. 3 vols. 8vo. 21.8s. cloth. TOOKE.—THE HISTORY OF PRICES, And ofthe State of the Circulation, from 1839 to 1847, inclusive: with a General Review of the Currency Question, and Remarks on the Operation of the Act 7 and 8 Viet. c. 32: being a continuation of “The History of Prices from 1792 to 1839.’' By Thomas Tooke, Esq. F.R.S. 8vo. 18i. cloth. TOWNSEND.—MODERN STATE TRIALS. Revised and illustrated with Essays aud Notes. By William Charles Towusend, Esq. M.A. Q.C., late Recorder of Macclesfield ; author of “ Lives of Twelve Eminent Judges of the Last and of the Present Century,” etc. 2 vols. 8vo. 30a. cloth. TOWNSEND (CHARLES).—THE LIVES OF TWELVE EMINENT JUDCES OF THE LAST AND OF THE PRESENT CENTURY. By W. Charles Townsend, Esq., M.A. Q.C. late Recorder of Macclesfield. 2 vols. 8vo. 28*. cloth. TURNER.—THE SACRED HISTORY OF THE WORLD, Attempted to be Philosophically considered, in a Series of Letters to a Son. By Sharon Turner, F.S. A. and R.A.S.L. Eighth Edition, edited by the Rev. Sydney Turner. 3 vols. post8vo. 3D. 6d. cloth. TURTON’S (DR.) MANUAL OF THE LAND AND FRESHWATER SHELLS OF THE BRITISH ISLANDS. Anew Edition, thoroughly revised, with Additions. By John Edward Gray. Post 8vo. with Woodcuts, and 12 coloured Plates, 15«.cloth. TWELVE YEARS ACO : A Tale. By the Author of “ Letters to My Unknown Friends.” Foolscap 8vo. 6».6d. cloth. TWINING.—ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF PAINTINC: A Theoretical and Practical Treatise ; comprising Aesthetics in reference to Art—the Appli- cation-of Rules to Painting—and General Observations on Perspective. By H.Twining, Esq. Imperial 8vo. with numerous Plates aud Wood Engravings, 2D. cloth. URE.—DICTIONARY OF ARTS, MANUFACTURES, AND MINES: Containing a clear Exposition of their Principles and Practice. By Andrew Ure, M.D. F.R.S. M.G.S. M.A.S. Lond., M. Acad. N.S. Philad.; S. Ph.Soc.N. Germ. Hanov.; Mullii, etc. etc. 3d Edition,corrected. 8vo. with 1,2-10 Woodcuts 50s. cloth. By the same Author, SUPPLEMENT OF RECENT IMPROVEMENTS. 2dEditi<m. 8vo.Hs.doth. WALFORD (J. E.)—THE LAWS OF THE CUSTOMS, Compiled by Direction of the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Treasury, and pub- lished under the Sanction ofthe Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Customs; with Notes and a General I ml ex. Edited by J. G. VValford, Esq. Solicitor for the Customs, Printed for Her Majesty’s Stationery Office, and published by Authority. 8vo. 10s. 6d. doth. WALKER.—ELEMENTA UTURCICA ; Or, the Churchman’s Primer, for the Scholastic Study of the Book of Common Prayer. By G. A. Walker, A.M., of Christ College, Cambridge. New Edition, entirely rearranged and considerably enlarged. Fcap. 8vo. 4f. fid. cloth. » • XPUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMAN AND CO. WALKER (GEO.)—CHESS STUDIES : Comprising 1,000 Games actually Played during the last Half Century ; presenting a unique Collection of Classical and Brilliant Specimens of Chess Skill in every stage of the Game, : and forming an Encycloptedia of Reference. By George Walker. 8vo. 10«. 6d. sewed. WATERTON.—ESSAYS ON NATURAL HISTORY, Chiefly Ornithology. By Charles Waterton, Esq., author of ‘'Wanderings in South America.” With an Autobiography ofthe Author,and Views of WaltonHall. New Editions. 2 vols. foolscap 8vo. Ida. 6d. cloth. *#* Separately—Vol. 1. (First Series), 85.; Vol. II. (Second Series), 6r. Cd. WEBSTER.—AN ENCYCLOPEDIA OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY ; Comprising such subjects as are most immediately connected with Housekeeping; as. The Construction of Domestic Edifices, with the Modes of Warming, Ventilating, and Lighting them—A Description of the various Articles of Furniture, with the Nature or their Materials—Duties of Servants, etc.etc. By Thomas Webster, F.G.S., etc. etc.; assisted by the late Mrs. Parkes. New Edition. 8vo.with nearly 1,000 Woodcuts, 50s. cloth. WESTWOOD (J. O.)—AN INTRODUCTION TO THE MODERN CLASSIFI- CATION OF INSECTS; founded on the Natural Habits and comparative Organisation of the different Families. By J. O. Westwood, F. L. S. etc. 2 vols. 8v«. with numerous Illustrations, 2/. 7*. cloth. WHEATLEY.—THE ROD AND LINE; . j Or, Practical Hints and Dainty Devices for the sure* taking of Trout, Grayling, etc. By Hewett Wheatley, Esq., Senior Angler. Foolscap 8vo. with Nine coloured Plates, 10i. 6d. cloth. WILBERFORC-E (W.) —A PRACTICAL VIEW OF THE PREVAILING RELIGIOUS SYSTEMS OF PROFESSED CHRISTIANS, in the Higher and Middle Classes in this Country, contrasted with Real Christianity. By William Wilberforce, Esq. M.P. for the County of York. New Editions. 8vo. 85. boards. 12mo. 4s. 6d. cloth. WILSON.-THE LANDS OF THE BIBLE VISITED AND DESCRIBED, In an Extensive Journey undertaken with special reference to the Promotion of Biblical Research and the Advancement of the Cause of Philanthropy. By John Wilson, D.D. F.R.S. Honorary President of the Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, etc. 2vols.8vo. with Maps and numerous Illustrations, 1/. 16s. cloth. WILLOUGHBY (LADY)—SO MUCH OF THE DIARY OF LADY WIL- LOUGHBY as relates to her Domestic History, and to the Eventful Period of the reign of King Charles the First, the Protectorate, and the Restoration (1635 to 1663). Printed, ornamented, and bound in the style of the period to which The Diary refers. New Editions. Parts I. and II. Square foolscap 8vo. 8s. each, boards; or 18s. each, bound in morocco, by Hayday. WOODCOCK.—SCRIPTURE LANDS: Being a Visit to the Scenes of the Bible. By the Rev. W. J. Woodcock, St. Agnes, Nassau, New Providence. With 4 coloured Plates. Post Svo. 10*. 6d. cloth. YOUATT.—THE HORSE. By William Youatt. With a Treatise of Draught. A New Edition; with numerous Wood Engravings from Designs by William Harvey. Svo. 10s. cloth. YOUATT.—THE DOC. By William Youatt. A New Edition; with numerous Wood Engravings from Designs by William Harvey. 8vo. 65. cloth. *„* The above works, which were prepared under the superintendence of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, are now published by Messrs. Longman and Co., by assign- ment from Mr. Charles Knight. It is to be observed, that the edition oj Mr. Youatt's book on the Horse which Messrs. L. and Co. have purchased from Mr. Knight, is that which was thoroughly revised by the author, and thereby rendered in many respects a new work. The engravings also were greatly improved. Both works are the most complete treatises in the language on the History, Structure, Diseases, and Management of the Animals of which they treat. ZUMPT—A GRAMMAR OF THE LATIN LANGUAGE- By C. G. Zumpt, Ph. I). Professor in the University, and Member of the Royal Acadcmr of Berlin. Translated from the 9th Edition of the original, and adapted to the use of English Students, by Leonhard Schmitz, Ph. D., Rector of the High Scooolof Edinburgh ; with numerous Additions and Corrections by the Author. New Edition. Svo. 14i. cloth. [June 1, 1850.■F Kings College LONDON TP Mu & mil MU ftri/ e^u'fkvt XMtC it hui $(l/U 4 t C'1 c A c AM xowl mi 1108790 KING’S COLLEGE LONDON•UNO BY TLEYS g, C? «R STREET