79 1 PASTRY. THE flour should be sifted. The best looking pastry is made with lard, but it is not so healthy, or good as that which is made with half or two thirds butter. Whichever is used, rub a third of it into the flour, but do not try to rub out every lump; the less the hands are used, the better. Add cold water; in summer, ice water. If the crust is shortened wholly with lard, add a teaspoonful of salt to a pound of flour, and a small teaspoonful of soda to every three pounds. Sprinkle the salt into the flour, and dissolve the soda in the water. If butter only, or chiefly is used, omit the soda. When the water has been put in, stir it quickly, rather stiff with a knife. Do not mould it; it will make it tough, but when it is barely stirred together, put it on the board, roll it out, lay thin shavings of butter on every part, sprinkle a little flour over it, and roll it out again, then lay on butter as before. To avoid much handling of the crust, roll it so thin, that ah the butter will be taken up by two or three times rolling in. When it is all rolled in, fold up the crust in a long roll, and double it, laying the ends together; then lay it aside, and cut from it for each pie. In rolling out for the plates, press the pin equally, so as to make all parts of the same thickness, and as nearly circular as possible. Have the plates ready buttered, or greased with lard, lay in the crust, and see that •all parts touch the plate. Take the dish upon the palm of the left hand, and with the right trim the edges, holding the knife under, and aslant, and so cut the crust that the edge of the dish will be perfectly covered. With regard to the proper thickness of pie crust—A pie in which the fruit forms one third of the thickness, and the two crusts the other two thirds, although it may look nicer, is neither so healthful, or good as one made with thinner crust and plenty of fruit. Some fruit requiies thicker crust than others; for apple, peach, &c. it should be thin as a plate, for juicy fruits, such as berries, cherries, plums, and for mince, it should be a little thicker. Lay some of the trimmings round the rim of the plate to make the edge of the pie look well, and put the rest by themselves, and when there are enough, roll them out for an under-crust. In making cherries, currants, &c. into pies, use deep dishes, and be careful not to fill them even full, as the syrup will boil over, and thus much of the richness of the pie be lost. There is one way to prevent the loss of syrup. After laying in the fruit, or mince, and rolling out the upper-crust, wet the rim