— 62 — POTATO CROQUETTES—continued. wire sieve with a wooden spoon as quickly as possible on to a plate. The potatoes can be passed through the sieve much quicker while they are hot. Put one ounce of butter, and a tablespoonful of milk into a stewpan, and put it on the fire. When the milk and butter are hot, stir in smoothly the sifted potato. Take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it aside. Break two eggs, put the whites in a cup (as they are not required for present use), and stir the yokes, one at a time into the potato in the stewpan. Take two or three sprigs of parsley, wash them in cold water, dry them in a cloth, and chop them up finely on a board (there should be about a teaspoonful). Sprinkle the parsley into the stewpan, and season the potato with pepper and salt. Turn the potato mixture on to a plate, and stand it aside till cold. Put one pound of lard into a deep stewpan, and put it on the fire to heat. ■ Be careful it does not burn. Take some crumbs of bread, and rub it through a wire sieve on to a piece of paper. When the potato mixture is cold, form it into croquettes or balls, according to taste. Break an egg on to a plate, and beat it up slightly. Dip the croquettes into the egg, and brush them well over with it. Then roll them in the bread-crumb3, being careful to cover them smoothly, and not too thickly. Take a frying basket, and arrange the croquettes in it. Finger them as little as possible, and do not allow them to touch each other. When the fat on the lire is quite hot and smoking (test the heat bv throwing in a piece of bread, which should fry brown directly), put in the frying basket for two minutes, or so, to fry the croquettes a pale yellow. Put a piece of paper on a plate, and as the croquettes are fried turn them on to the paper to drain off the grease. Put three or four small sprigs of parsley (washed and dried) into the frying basket, and just toss the basket into the boiling fat for a second or so. For serving, arrange the croquettes on a hot dish, with the fried parsley in the centre. mm k- i ti mu#og i s I ft, A k ffl III rn IIS m W 4 o ff.SAl § Ifc £,#.4- a m 4 » m m iumts m & m & § w m 4 H 4 h — tf 4 ft„1H ±.« Si 5$ mzmM m>M siiiis 4 £ 4 4,4 t* 1? if 4 hi,If tt ff ^ Jt>. &>