— 12 SPRING VEGETABLE SOUP. rpAKE four pounds of shin of beef. Cut all the meat from the bone and 1 cut away the fat. Break the bones in halves with a chopper. Take away all the marrow. Put the lean meat and bones into a large saucepan. Pour in five pints of water, and put in one teaspoonful of salt. This will assist the scum to rise. Put the pot on the fire with the lid on, and let it come to the boil quickly. Remove all the scum with a spoon. Draw the pot rather to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for five hours. Take two young carrots, scrape clean with a knife, and cut into slices. Take one young turnip, peel it, and cut it in slices. Take half a head of celery and one leek, wash them well in cold water, and cut them in squares. Take one cauliflower, wash in cold water, and put in a basin of cold water with a dessertspoonful of salt for two or three minutes, then take it out, and squeeze it dry in a cloth. Next cut off all the green leaves and the stalk, and pull the flower into sprigs. Skim the soup occasionally, and add a little cold w'ater to make the scum rise. Add the vegetables an hour before serving. First put in the sliced carrots, and the cut up celery and leek, as these take the longest to boil. In half an hour add the sliced turnips, and fifteen minutes after that the cut up flower of the cauliflower. Put a saucepan full of hot water on the fire to boil. When the water is quite boiling, put in one gill of shelled peas, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of Carbonate of soda, and let it boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the age of the peas. Then feel them, and if quite soft, take them out and drain them in a colander. Put the boiled peas into a hot tureen and ladle the soup and other vegetables over them into the tureen. kmm a 2 # ffl fi.ffl ® II if It $1 A A 7J Pi 7J ©35 m ❖ & a m <ft »tr m m it- m U ft mM H Jit H lit Sfc BE * SI fe, ffl «,jlt ft E ft # ft K m.ffi ft. m + m a m m »si $ s t & a 2 m MM & a a ftije rs si %