CARCINOMA OF THE HEART. 195 stenosed at a point 30 era. from the teeth. The growth begins 4 cm. above the stenosis. The tumor has involved the esophageal wall so that at its thickest portion the esophagus measures 3.25 cm. in diameter at a point 22 cm. from the teeth. The tumor is soft and friable, yellowish white in appearance, and there has been some slight ulceration on the mucous surface of the esophagus overlying the tumor mass. Heart.—The pericardial sac is normal. The heart is nor- mal in size, but soft and flabby in consistency. The myo- cardium is pale. On the epicardial surface of the left ventricle, lying in the course of the coronary artery, about 1.5 cm. from the apex, is a small, yellowish white nodule 5 mm. in diameter. On section this nodule is moderately firm and has apparently invaded the myocardium to some extent. Micro- scopic examination shows the nodule to be made up of an em- bolus of epithelial cells, which has completely occluded the lumen of the coronary arter}". This metastatic growth has in- vaded the myocardium and the muscle fibres near it are degen- erated. (See Fig. 1). Lungs.—The left, lung is adherent to the chest walls through- out its entire extent. The apex is involved in an extensive abscess, the cavity of which occupies almost the entire upper lobe. The contents of this abscess are chocolate-colored and have a very offensive odor. Microscopically, the abscess-wall shows areas of carcinomatous growth. The lower lobe is mark- edly congested, but not consolidated. The bronchial lymph glands are enlarged and firm. Upon section they are yellowish white and apparently involved in the metastatic process. Microscopically, they show carcinoma. The right lung is practi- cally normal. Liver.—The liver weighs. 1800 grams, is firm in consistency, and pale in color. In the right lobe there are numerous nodules, resembling metastases, varying from 3 mm. to 1 cm. in diameter. Microscopically, they show carcinomatous structure. Kidneys.—The kidneys are normal in appearance, but in the cortex of the left kidney there is a small nodule, measuring about 2 mm. in diameter, which is apparently metastatic. Micro- scopically it shows carcinomatous structure. In this case the cardiac metastasis was shown in micro- scopic sections to have occurred by the formation of an