BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. thereof, because I committed my error while operating upon BY W. B. DE GARMO, M.D. Professor of Special Surgery (Hernia), New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. For several centuries it has been known that the bladder sometimes enters as a factor into the formation of abdominal hernia; and its presence has been recognized as constituting a complication in the operative treatment. At rare intervals this fact has been mentioned in the literature of the subject, but the average surgeon either overlooks, or promptly forgets, the existence of this occasional complication. The term " cystocele " has been applied to hernias containing the bladder, but the use of this word is undesirable and mis- leading, as the gynecologists have now appropriated the term and applied it to a condition of bladder prolapse into the vagina. During the past 20 years the operation for the radical cure of hernia has become so general, and consequently the number of accidental openings of the bladder so common, that it has become an object of close study with every surgeon how best to avoid such an unpleasant, and sometimes disastrous, acci- dent. Yet, even with the greatest care, such an accident is pretty sure to happen to almost every man who operates ex- tensively for hernia, and he will discover, to his great chagrin, that he has unknowingly cut into the bladder under the suppo- sition that he was opening a hernial sac, a cyst, or hydrocele of the cord; or he will find that the loose mass of fat that he has tied off and cut away was, in reality, a diverticulum or elongated part of the bladder wall. In my own experience of 21 cases of hernia containing the bladder, I was able to recognize and avoid accidental injury to that organ in all but one case. My carefulness was prompted by witnessing early the accidental opening of the bladder by a surgeon who was known the world over as a careful, conserva- tive operator; and upon this occasion I resolved, that if this error could be avoided by care, I would never fall into it. For many years afterwards this caution served me well, but the time came when my pride had a fall — and great was the fall