SUBINVOLUTION. 469 else exophthalmos may be of varying degrees, or goitre may be more or less marked. It is important to recognize the fact that Basedow's disease frequently occurs in an aberrant form, and that the cases shade gradually into forms which, since exophthalmos, goitre and marked tachycardia are absent, are to be called hyperthyroidism. Many such patients are found to have cystic ovaries, sclerotic ovaries or other patho- logical non-recognizable ovarian changes. Thus, relative hyper- thyroidism produces a group of symptoms like the nervous symptoms of the typical menopause or climacterium, except for the fact that flushes or flashes are less marked or absent. Post Partum Treatment and Prophylaxis.—A weighty ele- ment in the causation of these conditions of subinvolution and hyperthyroidism is failure of proper care in the post partum stage. In the post partum stage frequent examination of the patient should be made, and the uterus and its ligaments should be restored to the normal. Abdominal massage should take care of the abdominal walls; deep abdominal massage should take care of the stomach and intestines. Tonics should take care of the blood corpuscles and stimulate the circulatory apparatus, and baths should restore the circulation of the nervous system to its proper balance. Within a few hours after labor the patient should be en- couraged to spend very little time on her back, lying mostly on the right or left side. After the flow of milk has been estab- lished and the uterus is in the true pelvis, the patient should spend an hour every morning and an hour every afternoon lying flat on the stomach and should sleep in this position a part of each night. A tight abdominal binder is by no means advisable; a comfortable bandage being all that is necessary. Attention should be paid to avoiding distention of the intestines by gas. At all times the bladder should be emptied at intervals of six hours. From the fifth day on patients should have a commode at the bedside. Patients should be allowed to sit up on the fifth or sixth day for a short time, increasing the period daily so that the patient can be out of bed on the eighth to the tenth day. Toward the end of the second week or at the beginning of the third week, a course of baths should be begun, containing at first salt, then salt and calcium chloride and, finally, carbonic acid gas should be added. Internal examination should then