267 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. right tube and a tumor the size of a small apple were removed. The right ovary was not seen. The tube was decidedly convoluted and its fimbriated end showed the mucosa deeply suffused with blood. Other- wise it was perfectly normal macroscopically and microscopically. The tumor was whitish and smooth. On section it disclosed an encapsulated hematoma containing a hazel-nut sized cavity. The capsule showed ovarian structure, also chorionic villi. No embryo or any part of a fetal cord was visible. Case II.—A II-para 23 years old had the last menstrual period Sep- tember 24, 1902. About two months later she passed a " skin " and this was followed by uterine hemorrhage. A tumor the size of a man's fist could be made out in the cul-de-sac of Douglas. Operation was performed by vaginal section. The left tube and ovarian tumor were removed. The former was found to be normal. Black blood, due to an old hematocele, and shreds of tissue were also removed. The tumor tore loose from its attachments during the enucleation-, but had been attached to the ovarian ligament. Definite ovarian tissue was found in the sac, also masses of villi, part of which were the subject of advanced degeneration. No mention is made of a fetus or its cord. The first thing that strikes the reader of this report is the fact the vaginal route is not, as a rule, the best way to operate for ectopic pregnancies. In a paper of this kind one cannot well go into the pros and cons of this question, as that would lead too far. Only one point will be mentioned, namely: the technical difficulties which are apt to be encountered are of such a nature that, to say the least, the specimen will have been dragged upon so much during its removal, that its original con- nections will become in a great measure a matter of conjecture. Witness case two in which, even in the expert hands of Micholitsch, who is an ardent advocate of this method of operating, the ovary was torn from its ligament. As neither a fetus nor any part of its cord was found in either case, they cannot well be said to represent unassailable instances of ovarian pregnancy, notwithstanding the fact (which is admitted) that ovarian tissue and chorionic villi were found in the wall of the gestation-sac. Kantorowicz (1903).—The author, in a very valuable contribution to the history of ovarian pregnancy, reports two cases. The first is a IV-para 30 years of age, whose last menstruation occurred about the middle of August, 1902. She was operated on October 18, 1902. The left tube, ovary and ovarian ligament were removed. The tube w'as found to be almost normal, macroscopically and microscopically. Only the mucous membrane was found slightly thickened by some in- flammatory deposit. The sac showed ovarian tissue, but did not contain any demonstrable fetal elements. V