HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 458 merit, will likewise act upon the growing and proliferating cells of the tissue deprived of its natural covering, which consists of superficial la3^ers of cells impervious to water and, to some extent, even to some chemicals. Therefore, I never use car- bolic acid, sublimate or silver nitrate solutions, the last of which, as I have observed, produces a more abundant secretion. It seems to me that the concentration, which is usually recom- mended too strong, is a factor of still greater importance. On the one hand, authors warn against changing the bandage too often and even exposing the sore to air; on the other hand, they employ uselessly concentrated lotions, thereby lowering the vitality of the superficial cell layers. (Watson-Cheyne, Hg Cl2 1:1000 !). There is no objection, when beginning the treatment, to apply a somewhat higher concentration, but very soon one may obtain better results by saturating the frequently changed compresses with more dilute solutions. I never met with a condition point- ing to increase of the bacteria previously existing in the wound, or betraying new infection; on the contrary, the secretion and the general aspect become so favorable that one believes that it is an aseptic wound. Whatever harm is done by the low concentration, is overbalanced by the fact, that the frequently changed compresses bring new quantities of the dis- infectant into direct contact with the infected parts. The chemicals I have used for fifteen years are: chinosol, 1:2000; boric acid, J to \ of the concentrated solution; alum, acetas 0.4:100; protargol, \ %; and if the granulations are too hyperemic, a filtered infusion of sage leaves, diluted to straw color. That such weak solutions are efficacious, is shown by the cauterizing effect of solution of zinc chloride, 1:600. I use this instead of silver nitrate in abundant granulations. The gauze is wrung out of it and applied as mentioned. In from three to six hours it turns the granulations to a thin slough, without pain. Then one of the disinfectants is used. The slough will adhere thereto and easily come off in this way. If the cauterizing effect is not sufficient, I repeat a zinc chloride compress a few times. I have never used a caustic in fifteen years, although I have had to remove granulations of the thickest kind from neglected wounds that came under my care.