TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 283 impregnation took place anywhere else except in the follicle. The spermatozoon meets the recently extruded ovum. It attacks the latter. At the first impact the little globe would roll along. Much the same thing would occur as when a ball is poked by a stick. The mechanical disadvantage under which the spermatozoon would be placed might well frustrate every attempt at union. The mechanical disadvantage would be heightened by the fact that the little globe is covered with secretion from the tube, lying on a slippery surface, in unstable equilibrium, and the peristaltic motion of the tube towards the uterus would complete a chain of unfavorable circumstances which, even the indomitable little spermatozoon, may not overcome. 5. Physiological Reason.—In the wonderful scheme of nature, things are not done in a haphazard way. It is the manifest object of the spermatozoon, be it human or animal, to wriggle its way up to the ovary. These little beings have been found by different observers in every part of the genital tract. Most significant of all observations, spermatozoa have been seen re- peatedly swaiming on the_surface of the ovary after copulation. Was that merely accidental? Does it not rather give us a hint of the scheme of creation ? If the spermatozoon could just as easily unite with the ovum in the lower portion of the genital tract, would it not stay there and wait for the inevitable arrival of the latter from above? Although the theory of normal impregnation taking place in the Graafian follicle may not be generally accepted, the writer's case proves that impregnation can occur in the ovary. 616 Madison Ave., New York. LITERATURE. 1. Abegg: Zcntralblatt f. Gyn., 1896, S. 472. 2. Ahlfeld: Lehrb. der Geburtsh., 1898, S, 220. 3. Albosius: Observatio Lithopedii Senonensis. Senonis, 1582 (from Cruveilhier) 4. Albucasis: De Chirurgia cura Charming Lib. II, sect. 76, Oxonii, 1778, p. 339. 5. Alquie: Gazette de Hopitaux. 1857-1858. 6. Amat (-us Lusitanus): Curat, medicinal. Cent., II., curat, 10. 1552. 7. Arlebout (Gysbert): see Index works of Ruysch. 8. Astruc: Traite des maladies des femmes. T., IV ct V, Par. 1761-1765. 9. Autenrieth: Reil's Archiv. fiir Physiol., Bd. VII, Halle, 1807, p. 257.