ABDOMINAL RELAXATION. 428 demonstrated by placing in a pail intestines contained in a cloth bag and placing a kidney between the cloth and the side of the vessel. The kidney will be held in place at the upper level so long as the level of pressure is maintained, but it will at once slip down as the floating level is lowered. So much for the floating support and the results of its diminution. Since the abdominal cavity is closed and traction upon the walls produces negative pressure or suction, which is exerted upon all parts, such change will affect at first those organs which are most loosely retained in position. As the intra-abdominal pres- sure decreases, the hollow stomach and intestines dilate in response, and because of such dilatation their vermicular ac- tion is impaired. Interference with the peristaltic action per- mits accumulation of gas and stagnation of solid contents. The negative pressure will prevent a proper return of the venous blood and thus produce a continual chronic congestion. The dilatation and congestion will impair both secretion and di- gestion of food in the stomach and intestines. Stagnation of food all along the whole tract results. Stagnation permits fermentation and bacterial growth and a condition of chronic toxemia. Gradual impairment of nutrition and loss of weight follow, or there is insufficient repair after mild illness, such as grippe, colds, tonsillitis, etc., to which these patients seem peculiarly susceptible, probably because of decrease in physio- logical ability to resist infection. Loss of weight depends not only upon destruction of fat, subcutaneous and intra-abdominal, but also upon degeneration of muscle tissue. Loss of intra- abdominal fat may be so excessive as to create an internal negative pressure. Rapid or extreme loss of fat is accom- panied by general impairment of the muscular and nervous systems. The change of the nervous system is evident in a heightened irritability of mental as well as reflex action. The muscles lose endurance and become soft and flabby. Chronic toxemia does not affect the muscular system or the nervous system alone; all the structures of the body suffer, but the extent of the injury may be greatest and more ap- parent in the muscular or nervous systems. Negative pres- sure, therefore, results not only from loss of nutrition but also from sudden removal of positive pressure, as after pregnancy, tumors, ascites.