340 CYSTOSCOPY: ITS RELATION TO THE SEPARATION OF THE URINE AND INTRAVESICAL MANIPULATION. BY FOLLEN CABOT, M.D. Professor of Venereal and Genito-Urinary Surgery, New York Post- Graduate Medical School and Hospital. Several instruments other than cystoscopes have been de- vised with the idea of temporarily dividing the bladder into two lateral halves and in this way attempting to keep the urine separate as it comes from each kidney. These so-called sep- arators or segregators are occasionally useful when dealing with a healthy bladder. This reservation, however, begs the whole question, because we are never sure that a given bladder is per- fectly normal. We may be right in 98 per cent, of cases, but in the remaining two per cent, we may be mistaken, and so this possible source of error, even in a small percentage of in- stances, makes the method unreliable. In contrast to the cystoscope and the ureter catheter, this method of artificially dividing the bladder may be called a blind one. The only use for an instrument of this character is, in my opinion, in cases, of infection of the bladder in consequence of which condition it is undesirable to run any chance of contaminating a healthy ureter and kidne}^ by the introduction of a ureteral catheter. In a case of this type, however, it is necessary to use the cystoscope first in order to determine the condition of the bladder; but with a diseased bladder it would be difficult to exclude it as the origin of pus or blood found in either of the separate urines as collected by one of these segregators. In the presence, however, of elements in the urine necessarily of kidney origin and found on one side only, it is of value. In the other class of cases where its use has been urged, that is, where a ureteral opening cannot be found by aid of the cysto- scope, it may also be of service. However, these instances are so rare and there are so many methods in common use for locating an obscure ureteral opening, that in the hands of one with moderate experience the cystoscope and ureter-catheter are the instruments of choice. Harris, of Chicago, some years ago devised an instrument he called a segregator. With this segregator the bladder is di-