375 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. ceps femorus, abductors. Like some other observers, we were unable to determine any interference in muscle function of the voluntary or involuntary cardiac muscles. DIAGNOSIS. In well defined cases the disease, when once seen, can- not be mistaken. The age, the facies, the gait, the lordosis, the manner of rising from the recumbent posture, of walking upstairs, are all sufficiently characteristic for a correct diagnosis. In the early stages and in the irregular types, the diagnosis is occasionally difficult. Quite frequently the physician fails to notice the importance of the gravity of the case, and the diagnosis of " weak ankles " is often given to the parents. Yet a careful observation would rarely fail to disclose the real condition. The calves, as a rule, are abnormally large, especially in proportion to the lower extremity. Together with the increase in volume, these muscles are considerably weaker than the others, and the muscular power is very sluggish. Gowers points out a very characteristic early symptom,' viz., enlargement of the supraspinatus after wast- ing of the latissimus dorsi of the lower part and the pec- toralis major. The facial expression also is characteristic. Occasionally, however, the volume of the muscles is not changed, and in those cases special attention is to be paid to the function of the muscles in regard to their strength and electrical ex- citability. It will be found that these two features are far below proportion to the volume. The muscles are weak and the electrical response is feeble. At times the disease may be mistaken for chronic progressive anterior poliomyelitis, congenital spastic paraplegia, progressive muscular atrophy, syringomyelia, inflammation of the spinal column, and a form of polymyositis described by Oppenheim, Cassirer and Schultze. In chronic anterior poliomyelitis there is present reaction of degeneration, the absence of pseudo- hypertrophy and the peculiar grouping of the affected muscu- lature which serve as a guide for making the diagnosis. In anterior poliomyelitis the affected muscles correspond to the segment of the cord in which the anterior horn cells are de- stroyed, while, as pointed out above, in dystrophy they do not follow any segmental arrangement of the cord, but more a so-called embryonic arrangement. Thus we see that