350 FRESH AIR WORK FOR SURGICAL TUBERCULOSIS. desperate condition gained 7 lbs. during the winter and two of his sinuses closed. It is interesting to note that the father, who had held aloof, soon became interested and without ad- monition from us, became more temperate in his habits. Case II. (Fig. 2).—On the lower east side we found the family of one of our patients, a little girl with hip tuberculosis, living in three rooms, one a mere dark closet. The family consisted of the parents and seven small children ranging from a baby up. In spite of the crowded quarters these people managed to take five men roomers, making fourteen people at night in the three rooms. The trouble here was not poverty but thrift; the parents were making money at the expense of the health of the family. The mother had a small baby and refused to open the window; they also refused to move or to get rid of their roomers, and the situation seemed well nigh hopeless. However, we put a cot on the roof, where our patient passed many hours daily. Soon we began to notice changes in the rooms; a folding bed was substituted for the large double bed in the largest room, which served at once as kitchen, dining-room, parlor and bed-room, and things began to take on a neater and more shipshape appear- ance; the following year the family moved into four larger and better rooms. This patient has spent her summers at South- ampton, and is well on the road to complete recovery. Case III.—In three dark, close rear rooms in the Ghetto lives a family consisting of the parents and six children, one of whom, at the time I visited them, was in an asylum. Our patient was a little boy of four with tuberculosis of the left knee. As I entered the room I saw and smelt the remains of the last meal upon the table; dirt and disorder reigned supreme. On a cot lay the father, claiming to be sick; he had the year before, had his left leg amputated for knee disease, having made a trip to Vienna for the purpose. As a matter of fact the man is incorrigi- bly lazy and makes no attempt to work. The oldest daughter was on a couch suffering with grave disease of the heart. Two pale babies were asleep, one on a pillow, the other on a chair. The mother, a cheerful slattern, was gossiping with two women friends. This family is supported by charity, and it is impossible to im- prove the home conditions. We furnish milk and eggs to the boy and take him to Southampton in the summer. It might be bet- ter to remove him from the family entirely, but remarkable to relate, he has done well.