MANAGEMENT OF ULCERATED CONDITIONS. 155 to keep its covering with much less difficulty. Extending the same principle to loss and injury of bony surfaces, from tuber- culous processes, like the shoulder and other joints, and using in such cases glycerinized extract of bone marrow, I have not been so fortunate, although improvement was more rapid than with the usual routine methods. It is unnecessary to state that diseased bony surfaces must be thoroughly curetted and the dead bone removed. The idea is neither new nor original, yet it is surprising how man}" physicians seem never to have thought of this matter. Possibly, as a unit they are agreed that the use of cod-liver oil and other things on skin surfaces can produce constitutional effects; indeed, many think inunctions the best, if not the only way to use mercury. Others believe that the same method of administration of oleaginous substances in children is ideal. .But if it be suggested that it is easier and more rational to get improved nutrition and more rapid healing by employing a food that the tissues can use in loco, they shake their heads. Superficial burns that are very intractable and very uncertain, are those due to the X-ray and those due to a hot water bag. Of the deeper burns it may be said that those in the neighborhood of joints are apt to leave a cicatrix and to very seriously cripple the member. It is not necessary to remind the reader of the import- ance of always dressing such lesions with the limb extended, no matter what particular dressing be used. Generally, in any burn, an antiseptic dressing—preferably a one or two per cent, solution of carbolic acid—for forty-eight hours or more if the slough has not been removed by that time, should precede the nutri- tive treatment. Chemical burns are to be managed in the same general way, except that for the first two days an alkaline dress- ing in acid burns gives more relief, as a rule, than any other. Scalds are often very difficult to cure. One of my earliest cases, in which the nutritive treatment proved of so much value, was a woman who had been treated at another hospital for several months. She came to my clinic with an extensive scalded slazy surface involving a part of the chest and left breast, the granulations apparently incapable of doing any- thing for themselves, and the wound as nearly a hopeless one as is generally seen in such cases. The nutritive treatment was in a few weeks followed by a most satisfactory cure, with a remarkably good surface and with very little cicatrization.