HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. 15 ness of different parts of the body become evident. At times there is difficulty in enunciation of words. This is not a true aphasia, but the patient's tongue feels thick and he pronounces words wrongly, especially when speaking in a hurry. During such times, also, his memory is not keen. He cannot concen- trate his thoughts, and at times, it is with great difficulty that he attends to his affairs. In other words, the patient seems to be drunk with the toxemia, and until he is relieved of this con- dition, any of these uncomfortable and at times distressing symptoms will continue. In reference to the remittent type of case, it need only be said that the condition is, of course, a. chronic one. It is just in these cases, however, where, at times, the differential diagnosis is exceedingly difficult and may be, for the moment, impossible. In fact, in cases suffering from this condition, more than in most diseases, experience counts for much. We have seen patients suffering from chronic hepato-intestinal toxemia, so sallow, emaciated and weak; with an almost cachectic appearance, and evidently so desparately ill that they presented the appearances observed in malign disease. Indeed, with such conditions, should there be hypochlorhydria, or concomitant myasthenia gastrica, with stagnation or possibly retention of food, it will take an expert to decide, at times, whether or no these patients are suffering from a malign trouble, and even then, decision must not infrequently be withheld for a while. Temperature.—This varies considerably. More frequently than not, these cases have a normal temperature, with but a slight rise above or below the normal line. Cases are also met with, in which the temperature is higher—from 99.8 to 101° Fahr. and occasionally, even higher. These higher tempera- tures, at times, assume a typhoidal character and, in conse- quence, we have difficulty in distinguishing between certain of these cases and typhoid, or paratyphoid, or even obscure tubercular conditions. This is especially the case in in- stances in which the blood-count shows a leucopenia and a relative lymphocytosis. Such cases, however, are rare. They are mostly seen in cases of hepato-intestinal-toxemia in com- bination with severe neurasthenia, and it is in such cases, too, in which the afebrile type^ of the disease predominates. Renal Symptoms.—The frequent manifestation of polyuria at the onset of the attack and the dark-colored urine voided as the