38 SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. which has been in successful operation for 1G years, and now cares for some thousand patients on a tract of about 2000 acres, on which are situated 76 separate buildings. Such a colony for inebriates should be under State supervision and consist, preferably, of several thousand acres of well-drained farm and woodland in a healthy and accessible location. A detached cottage plan should be adopted with necessary administration buildings, hospital, amusement hall, churches, work shops, dormitories, and numerous detached cottages to accomodate not exceeding 30 persons each. A suitable laboratory for scientific research in the field of inebriety would be of value; also a library for the use of the patients, and staff. Athletic grounds and a gymnasium should be added. The ground not used for buildings could be cultivated as farm land for vegetable gardens, orchards, poultry and stock yards, and the forest land could be utilized to supply necessary wood. All the work about the colony so far as possible, as assistant nurses, clerks, farm helpers, gardners, etc., could be done by the inmates under the direction of a comparatively small number of paid employees. It is needless to say that such a colony should be under the direct charge of a medical superintendent with a sufficiently large medical staff, all of whom should be trained inebriatists, or specialists in inebriety, so that each patient might receive in- dividual treatment and be carefully classified. Such a colony could be partially self-supporting, as has been demonstrated at the Craig Colony for Epileptics where, in 1906, the produce from the farm and garden and their numerous industries reached the total value of $42,000. Finally, the inebriate should be legally committed to such a colony along the lines that have been in active and successful operation in the State of Connecticut for so many years. The establishment of such colonies upon broad scientific lines, would go far towards solving this serious problem which is becoming of ever-increasing importance, not only from the medico-legal standpoint, but from the sociological and economic standpoint as well. A few statistics from the recent work of Cullen (1907) will illustrate this latter point. The British Nation spends annually in drink £179,000,000. In the United States, in 1905, .$1,325,439,074 was spent for the same purpose,