BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. the organ projects well into the hypogastric region and is also much narrower than in the adult. The normal bladder wall in section shows fibrous, muscular, submucous and mucous coats. When moderately stretched it is £ of an inch thick, and the mucous lining appears to the eye as a pale rose color. When the bladder is well distended, however, as may result from chronic obstruction to the exit of urine, the wall thins so materially that these layers cannot be made out, and sacculi of the thinned mucous lining appear on the surface of the bladder, having protruded between the attenuated bands of the muscular coat. One. surgeon operating for hernia, saw fluid through this membrane, and as the sacculus was near the spermatic cord, opened it for hydrocele of the cord. Others report they were unable to recognize the bladder even after opening into it, so changed in appearance had the diverticulum become. Cause and Formation.—From the anatomical data just re- viewed, some of the causes of hernial prolapse of the bladder are quite evident: (1) the position of the viscus behind the pubic bones, which, in distending, broadens towards the in- guinal and femoral openings; (2) the distribution of loose areolar tissue and fat anteriorly and in front of the sides of the bladder up to the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and, while the recti muscles prevent any prolapse of the organ in front, the continuation of this areolar tissue to that of the extra- peritoneal areolar tissue, allows a diverticulum of the bladder to dissect down into the triangle below the border of the internal oblique to the inguinal canal. Other causes are: muscular strain on a distended bladder, and constipation. The latter acts as. a factor in two ways: first, by the rectum, over-distended, lifting the bladder out of the pelvis, and secondly, inordinate straining at stool. The attachment of the peritoneum to the bladder is responsi- ble in some cases of large hernias. The peritoneum is pushed down with the descent of the hernial sac to such an extent that it drags the bladder down also. Operators accomplish the same feat by overzealously pulling down the sac in its resection. The records show a number of cases in which the bladder was wounded or tied into the neck of the sac in this way. These bladder protrusions are classified as regards the presence: