UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 1SJ wall just above the line of incision. Inspection immediately revealed the fact that the interlobar space was obliterated by adhesions. These were broken down, and an abscess about the size of a small hen's egg was evacuated. Two weeks ago a man was admitted into my wards, trans- ferred from the medical side of the Post-Graduate Hospital, with a history of empyema following pneumonia. In this case, at the operation, we obtained the same foul-smelling, brownish fluid that was found in the case of gangrene of the lung already described. The lung was firmly adherent to the anterior chest wall, and at first did not expand; but after care- fully breaking up the adhesions, the apex and upper portion of the lower lobe expanded satisfactorily; the lower portion of the lower lobe was still flat and not well aerated. Careful ex- amination of this area showed a gangrenous patch over the posterior portion, with a navel-like depression at about its centre, which communicated with the bronchus. We were able to demonstrate here a large slough not yet separated from the lung. The man's condition has improved since operation, and under daily saline irrigations the offensive odor is disappearing and shreds of tissue are being washed out. He is making a satisfactory convalescence. On May 4, 1907, in consultation with Dr. L. E. La Fetra, I saw a boy, about seven or eight years of age, who had had a pneumonia followed by empyema, which had been operated upon by Dr. La >Fetra on the third of April. The pneumonia had begun on March 17. Immediately on opening the chest cavity, the temperature fell to normal and then gradually rose until there was a range of between 102° and 103°. During this time the pus had decreased in quantity, but there was. a large amount of mucus being thrown off. When I saw him on the third of May, I concluded that there was an opening from the bronchus into the walled-off space in the pleura and that the lung was incompletely expanded. I enlarged the open- ing and broke up all the limiting adhesions, allowing the lung to fully expand, and was then able to demonstrate to Dr. La Fetra and the others present at the operation, the opening through the lung into the bronchus. In the course of a few days the discharge became almost purely bronchial mucus, exactly corresponding to that coughed up during the course