362 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. cases that do not absolutely conform to the varieties of the disease that have been enumerated above, that it has seemed to many far better to disregard entirely such attempts at classi- fication; but, in reality, after a sufficiently large number of socalled " atypical " cases shall have been recorded, " types " of the disease will become more definitely established. There are examples of disease, in which myopathy is apparently the most conspicuous disorder, which have to be classified as allied to the dystrophies. Such cases seem to be most fre- quently associated with epilepsy and with certain forms of im- becility. We have to admit that they are allied to primary myopathy. In this respect we are in a position analogous to that of the alienist who, though recognizing a fairly typical manic-depressive insanity or dementia-precox, has to classify many cases, perhaps the majority, which he has attempted to put under one or the other of these headings as " allied cases," i.e., allied to manic-depressive insanity or to dementia precox. It may be that eventually we shall classify the dystrophies in some other way than clinically, just as we have been able to classify diseases of the kidneys from the standpoint of the con- stituent that is first and predominantly affected. In other words, it is quite possible that different forms of dystrophy begin in different constituents of the muscle, but some new method of investigating the muscles must first be discovered before this can come about. The socalled Neural form of Dystrophy. There is a form of muscular atrophy which is usually considered in the books in conjunction with the dystrophies, which is known as the neural or peroneal type of progressive muscular atrophy. It was first described by Charcot and Marie and afterward more elaborately by Tooth and by Hoffman (known as the Charcot- Marie-Tooth type). The disease is to be distinguished clinic- ally by symptoms which do not occur as a rule in the true dys- trophies. In the first place, the atrophy is confined very largely to the peroneal muscles; there are sometimes sensory disturban- ces, particularly pain; vaso-motor disturbances in the atrophied parts; reaction of degeneration and fibrillary contractions in the atrophying muscles. A few cases of this type have been investigated anatomically, and especially by Marinesco, Sainton, Dejerine, Armand-Delille and Siemerling. In all of these, wide-