PYURIA IN WOMEN. 476 ureter in the scar of a vesico-vaginal fistula, and quite often involvement of the ureter in cervical and uterine carcinomata. A large percentage of the direct causes of death in carcinoma of the cervix and uterus is due to uremia or kidney infection from ureteral obstruction. In simple pyelitis the amount of pus is small, and there are no casts to indicate the involvement of the parenchyma of the kidney; in the suppurative form the amount of pus is larger, and there is always a large amount of albumin, and frequently numerous casts of the hyalin, granular, epithelial and pus type to indicate extension to the kidney substance. In pyo-nephrosis the amount of pus is even greater, the amount of urine smaller, and the discharge of the pus is intermittent; during the time in which the pus is retained the constitutional symptoms are more marked, to be relieved by the escape of the pus. In abscess of the kidney there are intermittent discharges of pus, pain, tenderness and tumor mass in the kidney region if the abscess is large, and constitutional symptoms of con- fined pus. Dr. Edwin Beer, of New York, found that methylene-blue, given by the mouth, was found in some of the pus cells of the urine as late as two and a half'years after administration in a patient who had small abscesses in the kidney. He is of the opinion that the methylene-blue had entered into, and remained in combination with the nuclei of the pus cells and that this pus was discharged when the small focus in which it was contained had ruptured. With this experience in mind, he was able, by the delayed excretion of blue-colored pus cells, to diag- nosticate abscess of the kidney in a case at first thought to be simple pyelitis. Both diagnoses were confirmed by opera- tion. The objections to the method as one of diagnostic aid are that it is not uniformly constant; that the blue-colored pus may not be discharged for an indefinite time, and that it may be discharged at a time when the attendant is not on the lookout for it.