THE ETIOLOGY OF EYE-STRAIN. 203 BY FRANCIS VALK, M.D. Professor of Diseases of the Eye, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. To the general physician, the cause of eye-strain is usually attributed to some error of refraction, and probably, in the vast majority of our cases, this may be true; but it has been the past experience of the writer and of many others, that, after the re- fractive condition has been corrected—as far as our present knowledge will permit—our patients still present the same, or possibly somewhat modified symptoms. If we grant this proposition, which my own experience has proved to be true, then there must be some other causes that produce the symp- toms of eye-strain than that of the refractive condition of the dioptric media. Pohlman, in a discussion of the phylogeny and otogeny of the eyes of animals and of man, states that cases of eye-strain may be divided into two general clases1, "those due to irregu- larites in refraction, and those due to muscular imbalance."1 Gould, however, omits the latter condition, muscular imbalance, in his teachings and states that all cases of eye-strain are due to refractive errors alone; but, whereas he maintains that the correction of these errors, under an examination with a midriatic will relieve the ocular strain in all cases, yet he admits that he has many failures, which he refers to many other causes than that of a muscular imbalance. In a symposium on eye-strain, at Boston,2 Myles Standish accepts both propositions with the assertion that epileptiform convulsions have been absolutely cured by the correction of the errors of refraction or the muscular im- balance; Greenwood inclines to the refraction theory only, and Kilburn to refractive errors with vertical imbalance, causing scoliosis and torticollis. Other speakers, at the same meeting, expressed similar views. Roosa would consider all eye-strain as due to some refractive error, but the writer must take the other side of the question. While I am willing to acknowledge that the vast majority of all cases of eye-strain are due simply to an 1. Jour. Am. Med. Association, May 6, 1905. 2. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Feb. 23, 1905.