90 RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX, convenient time, with proper surroundings and good assistants. Should labor set in earlier than had been expected, we advise that the Cassarean operation be performed as soon as possible. In many of the recorded cases labor had been in progress for a number of hours, and each hour of labor adds to the danger of rupture. Experience has shown that results are fully as good when the operation is performed before labor commences, and, indeed, there are many advantages to be gained by operating at an elected time and place. Finally, we refer to the technique of the section, as entering into the prophylaxis of the repeated operation and subsequent rupture. My method of performing the section is as follows: The usual preparations for laparotomy having been made, the bladder is emptied by catheter, and the cervix, if closed, should be dilated to the extent of two fingers. An assistant then makes pressure at either side of the abdomen, thus bringing the abdominal and uterine walls closely together, and forcing the uterus well for- ward in the median line. An incision" is then made, about six inches in length, in the median line of the abdomen, beginning at a point about three inches above the umbilicus. Sterile pads are then placed at either side of the incision, and then we make a median uterine incision of the same length as the abdominal. The child is seized by one or both feet, and quickly extracted. If in making the incision, the placenta is encountered, the hand is quickly forced through it, the child is extracted and the pla- centa removed at once. An assistant seizes the uterine arteries, and makes digital pressure, sufficient to shut off the uterine circulation. The umbilical cord is then cut, and the child is handed over to an assistant. While this is being done, an assist- ant brings the uterus up into the abdominal wound, and protects the peritoneal cavity with gauze pads. The placenta and mem- branes are removed manually, and the uterus is dried with a gauze pad. If the uterus is well contracted no packing is neces- sary, but if it is soft and shows a tendency to relax, the cavity should be packed with sterile gauze. Interrupted sutures of No. 2-20 day chromicized catgut, are passed through the inner two- thirds of the muscular coat, down to, but not including the mucous membrane. Another layer of sutures of the same mate- rial is then passed through the peritoneum and the outer portion of the muscular coat, and finally a continuous suture of No. 1