HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 451 partial bath, only this part is placed in a suitable vessel; again without undressing and without cleansing, except, of course, when caustic chemicals are in consideration. The temperature may be from 70° to 85°F. and less, but extreme degrees should be avoided. The feelings of the patient will be the best indicator. The duration may be from fifteen minutes up to days, especially in necrosis. If the worst pain is relieved, the clothes may be removed and the part cleaned; in so doing, all disinfectants must be avoided and even the cleansing should be done in a somewhat perfunctory manner. Blisters should not be opened. The partial" bath may now be continued at a higher temperature, 90° to 99° for a longer time, or the part dressed as detailed later. II. If no Bath-tub is at Hand.—If the whole body is affected, a woolen blanket is spread upon a bed, over this rubber tissue, and over this two wet bed sheets, and, finally the patient is lifted upon these; the upper sheet is now cut so that each part of the body can be covered separately by wrapping the strips around the parts, or by gently pressing the pieces smoothly upon the surface. One end of the bedstead is elevated a little, and water of 50° to 70° is poured from time to time without pressure over the aphing parts. If the pain ceases, the underlying wet sheets and dry blankets may be closed over the patient to warm him. Cold extremities may be warmed by a warming bag. In case this management is impossible in emergency, the water is simply poured upon the burned undressed patient, or, if unclothed, he is covered with some cloth, to prevent all mechanical irritation. In burns of the first degree, the treatment so far outlined will be sufficient. In burns of the second and third degrees of the whole body, the patient afterwards is placed in the continuous bath as already described. If only a part of the body is burned, this part should be undressed and, without disinfection and cleansing, covered tightly and smoothly with one or two wet layers of fine linen, muslin, or similar material, or two to three wet layers of plain absorbent gauze. According to the locality—for in- stance, around an extremitv—a gauze roller may be wound twice, or these layers may be placed only upon the burned area, where rollers cannot be used. These two primary layers (this phrase will repeatedly be used for the sake of brevity) remain upon the burn for from one to two days. The object is to save