HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 457 secretion will be diminished in proportion to it; and fourthly, the treatment should aid and favor as far as possible the delicate microscopic processes that occur in the wound and lead to recovery." Powders and ointments do not fulfill these demands. First they dry up, and then form a shield, under which all conditions for germ culture are given. Ointments check the removal of secretions more than they favor it. The disinfectant contained in them does not act as reliably as powder or solutions and both do nothing in regard to the fourth factor mentioned, which is to turn the scale in favor of the water treatment. The undesired by-effects of powders and salves have always induced surgeons to prefer the wet bandage method, which is praised by Tillmanns, Stoneham, Watson-Cheyne, Foote and others: " However this may be, the wet bandage offers, firstly, ths drug in a more efficient state, and, secondly, it thoroughly ab- sorbs the secretions of the wound. Well wrung-out bandagee serve this end better than any dry material, which is ren- dered more and more impervious as it becomes saturated with secretion. In wet compresses, on the other hand, there is a good deal of diffusion,. No matter how this may occur, we shall see that the secretion is reduced with every successive compress. Furthermore, the water of the compress is of greater chemical adequacy to cell protoplasm than vaseline or a fat. To prevent the water from being robbed of its salts, I never use distilled or boiled water, except when the supply is visibly contaminated. Certainly there could be no objection to physio- logical salt solutions." The question is, how is a wet compress to be administered, to comply with the conditions mentioned? First, let us settle the chemistry of the compress. In con- sidering the chemical composition, we must discriminate between the chemical composition proper and the degree of concentra- tion of the lotions. Most authors recommend, first, carbolic acid and corrosive sublimate, then a number of more or less generally applied drugs, of which each prefers a different one. Carbolic acid and sublimate are likely to cause poisoning and even gangrene. As a rule, the profession regards only the bactericidal power, but here it behooves us not to overlook the third condition, that is, that the wound should be irritated as little as possible. One should always bear in mind that an agent, when killing the microbes, or preventing their develop-