179 UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. had been under treatment for an unresolved pneumonia and had finally developed an empyema occupying the upper half of the chest. At the operation, instead of getting the usual clear pus, the discharge was brown and very offensive. The lung followed down after the removal of the fluid, so that the lower portion, which was already fairly well expanded, fully occupied its position in the chest; the apical portion also ex- panded as the limiting adhesions were released. The upper portion of the lower lobe, however—the empyema was on the left side—did not expand so well, the result being that the lung had the appearance of a dumbbell. On passing my finger over this contracted area I found that it was solid, and ex- pressed the opinion that it was an area of unresolved pneumonia. The cavity was irrigated with normal saline solution, and, while the fluid was pouring in and out of the cavity, a section of this contracted lung—about three inches long by an inch and a half in width—dropped off into the pleural cavity. I imme- diately seized this piece and on examination found that it was a gangrenous portion of the lung. The space left in the lung was interesting, because it demonstrated that the same thing happens in pulmonary tissue as in other tissues where gangrene is localized. Free oozing of blood could be seen over the whole of the open surface. No hemorrhage of any moment occurred, and a few washings~~of hot saline solution were sufficient to control all the oozing from the raw surface. I could not see that the exfoliation of this piece of lung had the slightest effect upon the child's condition. During the first two or three days after the operation there was a decided amelioration in the symptoms, and at one time I even hoped that, in spite of the grave septic condition, the child might recover; but she died of sepsis on the sixth day. Shortly after operating on this case, another one was referred to me from the medical department of the Babies' Wards, with an obscure lung condition which was supposed to be an unresolved pneumonia. Aspiration of the chest did not reveal any fluid, but there was marked flatness about the level of the 4th or 5th rib behind. An X-ray revealed the presence.of an abscess, and I excised the 6th rib, taking out about three inches along the posterior axillary line. A little serous fluid was found in the pleural cavity and a few adhesions to the anterior chest