TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 245 question of ovarian pregnancy, making six points in all and reading as follows: 1. A tumor, evidently the ovary, and occupying the place of the latter. 2. Connected with the uterus by the ovarian ligament. 3. The tube on that side perfectly normal and non-adherent. 4. Definite ovarian tissue demonstrable in some part of the sac. 5. The fetus visible in a cavity of the ovary. 6. Demonstrable organic connection between the fetus and the ovary. With these six points scientifically proved, no doubt need be entertained as to the nature of the case. With one or more of these lacking, none ought to be considered as proved. For the sake of completeness it would, no doubt, be desirable to pass in review all cases of this nature recorded in the literature. This, however, is hardly feasible; firstly, because it would pre- suppose on part of the writer, mastery of many ancient and all the modern languages, and secondly, it would require unlimited time and opportunities for reading. Besides, an attempt at such a compilation would augment this paper to the dimensions of a volume. For the present purpose it may suffice to give a. very brief resume of the more likely cases of ovarian pregnancy, recorded as such or quoted as authentic by the more modern writers on the subject. It is assumed that the above detailed six criteria of ovarian pregnancy, are accepted as sufficient, and this " rule of six " will be applied impartially to all the cases reviewed, to test their claim to that title. The first case of extrauterine pregnancy recorded in the litera- ture is the one described by the Spanish-Arabian physician Albucasis, who died at the beginning of Hegira 500 (the 12th century 1106-'07 a.d.). In 1618, Riolan Jr., known as the chief anatomist of his day, described a case of tubal pregnancy observed by Mercer four years previously. The same author at the same time also mentioned two other cases, one by Marquard, about 1588, and one about 1608. Following these cases, further observations of tubal pregnancy were recorded by Riolan in the first half of the 17th century. Vesal reported a case in 1669, and this one was followed by a number of other instances re- corded by various observers. It is noteworthy that the anatomists and surgeons of that period received these reports with reserve, not to say suspicion.^ i