344 CYSTOSCOPY. In addition to this advantage, my model permits the use of small instruments, forceps, curette, etc., for bladder work of a surgical nature. By the use of these forceps, foreign bodies may be removed from the bladder; small stones from the ureteral opening dislodged; portions of new growths obtained for examina- tion, and applications made to ulcers with increased dexterity. No doubt this field will be much widened. My model does away with the two long, closed chambers difficult to properlv and quickly disinfect. The light arrangement and sheath are the same in both these cystoscopes, the difference lying in the construction of the catheter arrangement. Bransford Lewis has devised many ingenious instruments for intravesical manipulation. All these instruments may be used with air or fluid dilatation, although, personally I prefer to em- ploy fluid, having found it less uncomfortable to the patient. In addition to the cystoscopes mentioned .above, we have the open-tube cystoscope, as devised by Pawlik and later introduced into this country by Kelly. This instrument has been found very useful in the female for observation and in the knee-chest position for ureter catheterization. The bladder, by gravitation, permits dilatation with air, and a very excellent unmagnified view may be obtained and small intravesical operations performed. The open-tube method has also been used in the male in a few experimental cases by Kelly and more recently by Luys in Paris. The latter has devised a special instrument for the purpose, and he has written a book on the subject. Before this work of Kelly and Luys was known to me, I had made various attempts to examine the male bladder by the use of the open tube. Various postures had been tried by me, and recently I have had constructed a special open-tube cystoscope with in- verted light for use in the male. I call it a bladder speculum, and I feel convinced that before long we shall be doing much more for diseases of the male bladder by the open short tube. It certainly is practical and requires only persistence to develop it. The female bladder can be readily cystoscoped and the ureters catheterized with either the direct or indirect view instruments already described. They need not be so long, but it is of no particular inconvenience to have them the same length as the cystoscopes used in the male. The particular advantages of the open air tube method in the male are the facility with which we can approach ulcers, small