MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 374 were noticed in two of our cases. In one they were con- fined to the Achilles tendon, and in the other to the muscles of the back of the neck, so that the boy walked on his tip-toes holding the head flexed backward. Schlippe1 showed that the long bones are atrophied in the thickness of the shaft and not affected in their length, nor are there any changes in the epiphysis and joints of these bones. He, therefore, concludes that this process is not due to an arrest of development, for if such were the case the bone would swell in all its dimensions. On the other hand, it is not due to any trophoneurotic changes. In this instance, as is well known, the bones are unchanged in their thickness, and rarefi- cation of the spongiosa occurs in spots, making the appear- ance as if the bone were checked. Schlippe further thinks that the skeletal changes are not secondary, but are brought about most probably by the same cause as that productive of the change in the muscles. Dreyer- supports this view by the fact that the bone changes are most pronounced where the muscular changes are severe. Schultze3 reported two cases in sisters. In one there was dystrophy associated with general atrophy of bones, and in the other there was only atrophy of bones without dystrophy. Bregmann4 records a case of progressive muscular dystrophy in which the bones were markedly hyper- trophied. Eulenberg5 also records a case of progressive mus- cular dystrophy with hypertrophy of the shafts of the bones in which the epiphyses remained in their normal state. Schultze6 reports a case of pseudo-hypertrophy with general atrophy of bones. Marquard7 reports a case of acromegaly associated with progressive muscular dystrophy. The order in which the muscles are involved may be arranged in the following manner: Dense, Thickened Muscles.—Calves, sartorius, glutei, triceps, deltoids, infraspinati. Atrophy.—Pectoralis major, cucularis, ser- ratus magnus (anterior portion), latissimus dorsi, biceps, quadri- 1. Deutsche Zeitschr. f. Nervenheilk, 30. 2. Deutsche Zeitschrift f. Nervenheilk, 31. 3. Deutsche Zeitschr. f. Nervenheilk. 1899. 4. Zeitschr. f. Nervenheilkunde, 1899. 5. Deutsche med. Wochenschr. 1896. 6. Deutsche Zeitschrift f. Nervenheilk. 1899. 7. Inaug. Dissert. Berlin, 1896.