RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. 89 by suture is eminently successful and, therefore, should, as a rule, be advocated. According to the statistics of Schultz, Valenta, Klien, Kolomenkin, Dorland and others, the opera- tive treatment of rupture in general offers the best results, and in this opinion, especially where the patient is surrounded by the proper conditions and is under the care of a skillful operator, we must agree. Speaking again of rupture in general, we believe that in the absence of the above conditions, when rupture has occurred, the fetus should be extracted by forceps,version or crani- otomy, after which the uterus should be tamponed. If hemor- rhage continues, or if the necessary preparations can be made, abdominal section should be performed, and the uterus sutured or removed, as the operator may elect. Prophylaxis, Including Sterilization, Time of Operation and Technique of Caesarean Section.—The question has arisen: " should a patient, in the presence of absolute indications for Caes- arean section, be sterilized at the time of the first section?" It seems to me that in the absence of any condition, such as carci- noma or fibroids, which in itself would indicate' the removal of the uterus, the question of future pregnancy should be an- swered before the Caesarean is performed. The danger of repeated section and the possibility of rupture of the uterus during preg- nancy and labor, should be put before the patient plainly, and, in our opinion, if the woman knowing the facts of the situation elects to undergo repeated Caesarean sections, she should be allowed to do so, and, indeed, she may do so without great risk, if we may judge from the figures which have been already stated. If the patient is opposed to the risk of a second or subsequent section, sterilization should be performed. The simplest way of is doing this is to resect a portion of each tube. Ligature alone is not sufficient, as the case of Galabin (No. 6)13 will prove. Sinclair2 is violently opposed to sterilization, quoting the small mortality of repeated section and the infrequency of rupture of the uterus. He says: " Sterilization and hysterectomy are rapidly entering the limbo of deplorable episodes in the history of obstetrics and gynecology." Galabin and Green are equally emphatic in their views on the subject. With reference to the time at which operation should be per- formed, we believe that it is better to anticipate labor by a week or ten days, in order that the operation may be performed at a