126 REPORT OF A CASE OF NARROWING*AND CONSTANT PATENCY OF THE PYLORUS. BY MAX EINHORN, M.D. Professor of Medicine, New York Post-Graduate Medical School, and Hospital. At first sight it appears rather peculiar that opposite con- ditions, as stenosis and patency of the pylorus, should be found in one and the same patient. It probably occurs, however, relatively often. I shall first describe such a case and then add a few remarks. Dec. 27, 1907. Wm. J. B., 50 years old, has been suffering for the last five or six years from dyspeptic attacks, lasting usually one to two weeks, and consisting only of pains one to two hours after meals. Two years ago his trouble increased and the attacks lasted a longer time (three or four weeks). Pronounced constipation developed. Six months ago the patient began to vomit more frequently and he was suffering almost constantly. At times the patient felt severe pain in the upper epigastrium, sometimes only a feeling of pressure in the stomach and burning in the scrobiculus. Vomiting now ensued regu- larly every day or every other day, a large quantity of fluid and food being ejected. Blood was never found. His sleep was often disturbed by attacks of pain. The patient lost steadily in weight, about 50 pounds in the last six months. The patient has always used alcohol and tobacco freely. He denies a history of syphilis. Present condition. Thoracic organs are apparently normal. Stomach extends to two fingers above the navel. Clapotage can be elicited in the left hypochondrium somewhat higher than normal. The liver dulness begins in the right mam- millary line, one finger's width below the mammilla, extending two to three fingers' width beyond the right costal arch. Examination of the stomach contents revealed the presence of food from the day before, the presence of HC1, some bile, and a moderate acidity. Sarcinae were not found. A few days later the patient was examined in the fasting condition after hav- ing eaten a plate of rice with milk on the previous evening. Ex- amination with the stomach tube brought up about 300 cc. of