250 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. careful and precise in the description of their cases. Let us briefly analyze the cases of ovarian pregnancy reported between the years 1845 and 1880. Hein (1848) described the case of a woman, aged 67, who died of tuberculosis. At autopsy the right ovary was seen to contain a hard tumor the size of a hazel nut. Within this growth were the long bones and ribs of a lithopedion. These bones had not escaped from the ovary, but were enclosed by the fibrous covering of the latter. The uterus, left ovary and both tubes were practically normal. Through some in- advertence these were lost, but the fetus was preserved. As a matter of fact, the author saw neither the uterus nor the adnexa in this case. Only the fetus was sent to him for study. It is questionable whether the one who performed the autopsy and who neglected to preserve the uterus and adnexa was capable of forming an authoritative opinion as to the presence of ovarian pregnancy. We merely have his staternent that the " adnexa. were practically normal." The most one can say for this case is that it has not been proved. Kiwisch (1852) does not believe in the cases of ovarian pregnancy recorded up to his time. However, he will not go so far as Mayer, who denies the possibility of their occurrence. To prove how easily one may be misled into describing cases as ovarian pregnancy if one judges only by absence of the ovary on that side, he cites a specimen so labeled in the pathological Institute in Wiirzburg, in 1849. Professor Kolliker dissected the specimen and, being an expert anatomist, finally succeeded in bringing to light a very much atrophied ovary, which had been buried among a dense network of adhesions. The case of ovarian pregnancy which this author described may, without hesitation, be characterized as not proven. Virchow says that he himself is not sure that the case he re- ported is one of true ovarian pregnancy. He says it is probably so. Reymert (1852).—The left ovary, the size of a goose egg, was sur- rounded by blood clot. The abdominal cavity was filled with clotted blood. On removing the latter, an embryo three inches long was found in the abdominal cavity. The membranes surrounded the fetus and its cord was attached to the ovary. From these meagre details it would be impossible to form a just opinion of the case. As the burden of proof lies on the author, one is forced to admit that, as far as the evidence went, the claim to the title of ovarian pregnancy has not been estab- lished.