TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 252 Helie (1857).—The author himself cites this case as one of extra-uterine pregnancy. Later writers persistently quote it as ovarian. It is mentioned merely to be put under this caption and dismissed. Hecker (1858).—This patient was 28 years old. She had borne one child. Three years later, while in the 18th or 20th week of her second pregnancy, she suddenly expired. Autopsy. The author will not say positively that this is an ovarian preg- nancy, but that it awoke in him a subjective conviction that the case was of such nature. It would seem that, in view of the fact that neither the tube nor the placenta was ever found or accounted for, the only subjective conviction the case should have awakened in him is, that it was not one of ovarian preg- nancy. Willigk (1859).—The case of ovarian pregnancy reported here seem to be a favorite with authors and is almost univer- sally accepted as such. It is no less than the report of speci- men No. 179, of the Pathological Museum at Olmiitz. The salient points for us are: The right adnexa are normal. The uterus slightly enlarged. The two lamellae of the left broad ligament are spread apart and enclose a sac, 7 cm. long, which has a small tear in it. The sac contains an embryo 4.5 cm. long and estimated to be of about three months' gestation. The sac ends at one point in the ovary, which has become enlarged to 5 cm. in length. It requires no lengthy argument to point out that a fetus found within the layers of the broad ligament is intraligamentary. It must follow that the pregnancy was intraligamentary, having, as the author puts it, " spread apart the two lamellas of the left broad ligament." It does not concern us that the pregnancy may have been at one time ovarian. We are dealing merely with the conditions as they were found by the author who re- ported the case. From his own statement, then, this is surely not a case of ovarian pregnancy. Walter (1861).—The patient was a married woman, 40 years old. She had borne three children. The last coitus was on August 31, 1857. She was then menstruating at her regular time. The next day she left on a journey of 26 miles by wagon. The conveyance was accidentally overturned, and she was thrown into the snow (sic). She had to assist in righting the wagon and exerted herself considerably.