MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 379 Hypertrophic Type.—F. J., 18 years; single; German; in U. S. 15 years. F. H. Parents healthy, first cousins. Mother had three miscarriages, first three pregnancies, One boy suffers from similar disease; two other boys healthy. One child died of summer complaint. No tuberculous, nervous or syphilitic history. (Fig. 9.) P. H. Fourth child. Breast fed. Measles at 6 years. Began to attend school at 7 years. Menstruated at 13, regular. P. I. Began 11 years ago. Teacher first noticed, when she was S-9 years old, that she walked stiffly with the left leg. At about that time she had difficulty in going upstairs. Gradually grew weaker and weaker until walking on a level became difficult. The slightest push would throw her over. At 15 she was totally unable to walk. The left lower extremity was always weaker than right. Six years after onset of initial symptom, i.e., at about 14, began to complain of weakness in the upper extremities. It was difficult for her to lift them, and gradually these were involved in the same manner as the lower extremities. For the last two years has been unable to sit alone, though she can be propped up in a chair, and is com- pletely helpless; she cannot raise her arms or change her posi- tion in bed, but is able to use the fingers. Rectum and bladder normal. No pain or paresthesias in any of the four extremities. No headache. Sight, hearing and smell normal. Status.—Female, of average height. Face: Features apathetic, full, fat, typical myopathic. Mouth has lost elasticity and com- pressibility. Can wink with one eye, wrinkle forehead, pout lips and whistle. Cannot bring the incisors together, and says she never could do so. Molar teeth abnormally large. Patient in bed: While lying rests on shoulders and buttocks; marked lordosis of spine; back typical crescent shape, the highest bend being at about the twelfth dorsal vertebra. Cannot move from side to side. The entire lower extremities are covered with hair, assuming the male appearance. The feet are in a position of extreme extention and eversion, which, however, can be easily reduced. Legs very voluminous. All the tendon reflexes are absent. Abdomen stout, pendulous. Condition of viscera cannot be ascertained on account of the enormous