244 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. in the growth. Spiegelberg's criteria of ovarian pregnancy are used to this day. They are as follows: 1. A tumor, evidently the ovary, occupying the place of the latter. 2. Connection with the uterus by the ovarian ligament. 3. Normal, non-adherent tube, on the affected side. 4. Definite ovarian tissue demonstrable in some part of the sac. To the casual observer these four criteria of Spiegelberg might seem ample, but on close investigation it will be clear that these are not sufficient. For, if no fetus is found, it may be because it has become attached secondarily to some other intraabdominal organ, or if found connected with an ovarian cavity it might have become so accidentally or secondarily. In either case this would not constitute a true, primary ovarian pregnancy. It seems, therefore, that two more criteria should be added, namely, (a) the fetus must be found situated within the ovary; (6) organic connection between this fetus and the ovary must be demon- strated—to show that it actually grew there. It may be ob- jected that a fetus can be found within the ovary only in an early stage of its development, because after it reaches a certain size it could no longer be retained within the organ. In answer one may say, that this is precisely what happens and is. the reason why secondary abdominal pregnancies occur; also the intraligamentary kind. It is on account of the lack of room for further development that these primary ovarian pregnancies become secondarily abdominal or intraligamentary. Having ceased to be ovarian, they must be named something else. The word ovarian in this connection denotes merely the anatomical or topographical location of the gestation sac; and it matters not if a pregnancy, primarily ovarian, becomes in due course of time abdominal. From a study of the subject it will appear that all pregnancies, are primarily ovarian, in the sense that impregnation takes place ordinarily in the ovary. Perhaps it will serve a better purpose not to analyze the evidence in support of this state- ment here, as it would lead away from the subject under dis- cussion. This matter will be taken up under its proper heading in the appendix to this paper. To resume, then, it would appear that two more criteria should be added to those usually demanded, when determining the