358 PAN AS' OPERATION FOR STRABISMUS. inadequate to success in the older cases; and in the higher grades of refractive anomaly. That is to say, given a long lapse of years of strabismus and a fixed, or positive, strabismus, one traction followed by tenotomy has not always been followed by success in one session. Then, too, strong large interni in adolescent subjects with high hyperopia require more than one traction. Strabismics of five and six years of age with 10° to 25° of convergence do not require the surgical interference necessary in cases of 25 to 35 years of age, whose occupations take them in a varied environment. As a rule, women and girls do not require as much traction as men and boys. Experience has led me to the following rules. In strabismics of 4 to 10 years of age, with an hyperopia not exceeding 3D., where the angle of strabismus is the same, or nearly the same in each eye, my rule is to make two tractions of each rectus interns and follow with a complete tenotomy, involving muscles and supra- corneal and infra-corneal processes. In strabismus of 10 to 20 years of age, with an hyperopia not exceeding 5 D., my rule is to make three tractions of each internus muscle and follow with a complete tenotomy of muscle and all accessory fibres. In strabismics of 20 to 30 years of age, with an hyperopia of 5 to 8 D. four and five tractions are often required on the greater deviating muscle, and those on the less deviating muscle. These are the cases which must be studied with care. Cases of stra- bismus of 30 to 40 and 45 years of age, with a low degree of hyperopia, require four, five and sometimes six tractions with tenotomy of the greater deviating internus, while three or four tractions with tenotomy are required for the less deviating eye. These cases are often associated with choroiditis, atrophic retinites, or a disparity of blood-supply between the chorio- capillaris and the vena vorticosa of the choroid, or some other anatomical or pathological anomaly in the background of the eye; or, on the other hand, with spastic contraction of the interni and relative shortening of the belly of the muscle. It is well known that few strabismics squint equally with each eye; on the contrary, convergence is usually much more highly marked in one eye than in the other—this may occur in the early development of squint, in the earliest years of life. It is equally well known that in divergent strabismus, as- sociated with myopia, while the interni are long and weak, as