OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF BUBOES. 82 From the constitutional symptoms existing, I was fearful lest a desp burrowing through the abdominal facsia and into the under- lying lymph space had occurred and, accordingly, with a probe I gently prodded the thin granulations which were forming to protect the surface of the fascia. My suspicions were verified, the probe end finding a narrow opening in the fascia through which the shaft of the instrument dropped four inches without any manipulation. Along side the shaft of the probe, pus welled up from the deep lymph space. The patient was admit- ted to my hospital service. Under an anesthetic it was found that the burrowing, after reaching the posteiior lateral floor of the pelvis, had turned upward toward the loin, as in Case III. A left loin incision was consequently made just above the posterior limit of the crest of the ilium. The finger introduced into this incision and turned downward over the crest of the ilium into the pelvic cavity, could detect the movement of the end of the probe introduced into the lymph space through the abdominal sinus. This showed that, as yet, the upward limit of the burrow- ing was still below the iliac crest. Still, by a little pressure, the fingertip was made to meet the end of the probe, and a drainage-tube was threaded over the probe and passed in at the sinus opening through the abdomial fascia down into the deep lymph space between the peritoneum and the fascia propria of the pelvis and out at the loin. The patient remained in the Post-Graduate Hospital nearly two months. His fever soon dis- appeared after the drainage described was established. He gained in flesh and, after the discharge along the tube had apparently become almost nil, the tube was removed and he was discharged from the hospital. Several months afterwards the patient en- tered my service at the City Hospital in a very low septic condi- tion. He reported that for six weeks after leaving the Post- Graduate Hospital, his condition had been satisfactory, after which the fever began again, together with the pains and discom- fort in the left pelvic region. Then a new symptom developed in the form of swelling and tenderness of the left buttock and hip. This swelling had rapidly increased and had extended down- ward, involving the thigh to the knee and upward as far as the lower ribs. When the patient entered the City Hospital, his condition, due to general sepsis, was so low that I had little hope of his surviving an operation, the object of which was to radically drain the interior of the pelvis. The patient con-