CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. 146 fibrous tissue and muscle have undergone the change of be- coming shortened in some places and lengthened in others. Were the original fractures to be reproduced in a deformity of long standing, the change in the surrounding tissues would prevent its reduction. Not only do soft parts change and make later operations difficult, but bone surfaces become altered in contour from new points of pressure and by the con- stant motion and use of the part. The position of the foot, the severity of the injury, the age of the patient, the time elapsed since the fracture, and the amount of work that has been imposed upon the ankle, all have an import- ant bearing on the operative measures suited to each case. While the X-ray shows non-union and malposition, it does not tell whether or no the adjacent soft structures will yield after the bones have been operated on. This must be determined by trial, especially in extreme conditions. The quite extensive cutting of soft parts is often necessitated before reduction can be accomplished. On account of these difficulties and the possibility of destroying the mobility of the ankle, operations, external to the point, either adjacent to or farther removed, have been devised and recommended; their purpose being to restore the foot to the axis of the leg, so that the patient's weight is borne on the outside of the foot. For example, the operation of cuneiform osteotomy aims to do this by removing a wedge of bone from the tibia, two or more inches above the lower articular end, with a fracture or osteotomy of the fibula at a point opposite. This allows the foot to swing into line with the axis of the leg. Some operators employing this method have reported useful feet and satisfactory results. Linear osteotomy through both bones at the same location, has ac- complished a similar result. In neither of these operations is anything accomplished by way of overcoming the dislocation or malposition of the bones which resulted at the time of injury, an important element in producing a useful joint. The hori- zontal tibial articulation also is changed to an oblique posi- tion. In fact, it is the production of one deformity to help out another. Hence, I believe, operations that aim to restore the broken and displaced bones to their original relations—opera- tions that deal directly with the injury—offer a much better chance for a useful foot and ankle, than those that seek only to