144 OPERATIONS FOR THE CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES FOLLOWING POTT'S FRACTURE. BY WARREN O. PLIMPTON, M.D. Professor of Orthopedic Surgery at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School. Deformities following Pott's fracture, are not infrequent. The disability, discomfort and pain attending such conditions are usually in proportion to the degree of deformity. These deformities are serious and furnish a decided impediment to the leg in bearing the weight of the body. The effect of extreme deformities is to render the foot almost useless. A patient once said to me that he would prefer amputation and an arti- ficial foot, if the trouble could not be remedied by an operation. Braces, and other forms of support have been devised as an aid in walking, but they are in no wise curative; are unsatisfactory in application, and must be worn constantly. Operative treat- ment alone, offers the only means for permanent relief. Before discussing the different operations for correction of these deformities, I wish briefly to review the anatomi- cal conditions existing with this fracture. The typical Pott's fracture occurs about three jmches above the tip of the external malleolus, produced by forcible eversion and abduction of the foot. (As seen in diagram B.) . Two other fractures often occur at the same time: one, of the outer lower edge of the tibia (see Fig. A); the other, of the inner malleolus, as in Fig. A. The inferior tibio-fibular ligament at point E in Fig. B. sometimes yields instead of the edge of the tibia, and the internal lateral or deltoid ligament, may be torn without a fracture of the inner malleolus (see Fig. B). Pott's fracture may be produced, also by forcible inversion of the foot, (see Fig. D). The fibula is broken from one, to one and a half inches above its tip. The inner malleolus may be broken obliquely upward and in- ward also, (see point F, Fig. D) as in forcible eversion of the foot. The so-called mortise in Pott's fracture is so much widened and enlarged that it allows the astragalus to become displaced both outward and backward. The inner lower edge of the tibia is prominent; a depression appears over the break in the fibula; the foot is pushed backward, everted and turned