EXCESSIVE GASTRIC SECRETION. 446 6. Rubow: Archiv fur Vcrdauungskrankh. 1906. fore, necessary to bear in mind that conclusions drawn from the acidity of the test-breakfast with regard to the quantity and quality of the secreted juice, have to be taken cum grano salis. Now, if a test-breakfast, instead of showing a total acidity of 40-60, shows one from 80-100 or 120; what does this mean? There are two possibilities: 1. The gastric juice is in this case much more acid, i.e. the result of its mixture with the test breakfast, etc. shows a higher amount of hydrochloric acid. 2. The gastric juice has its normal hydrochloric acid, but the amount of juice is increased, or the situation is such that the normally acid juice undergoes less dilution. The special text-books explain hyperchlorhydria by assuming that a highly acid juice appears under certain conditions. Now, an abnormally high amount of hydrochloric acid for the juice would be, for instance, 200. Such an acidity has never been found even in those cases of continuous secretion in which nearly pure juice can be obtained from the fasting stomach. In a very careful study; Rubow8 has shown that there is not a single case in the literature where the total acidity has been higher than 100-150, except, of course, in those cases in which the fact has been overlooked that other acids than hydrochloric acid have been found (for instance lactic acid in consequence of retention). As we have seen, 100-150 represents only the normal acidity. As long as physiology taught that the human gastric juice has an acidity of 50-100, it was justifiable to assitme "hyperchlor- hydria " by finding acidities of 150. This is obsolete, since it has been shown that physiologists underestimated the normal amount of hydrochloric acid. By finding a total acidity of 100 after a test-breakfast we can, therefore, only say this juice is less diluted than in a normal test-breakfast. This, in turn, is possible when there is at the end of the hour less test-breakfast in the stomach or there is more juice than normally. In short, abnormal motility, or abnormal secretion, or both, can lead to a result which we, by means of a test-breakfast, define as " over acidity." It is clear that the more acid juice is added to a certain amount of test-breakfast, the higher is the acidity. At the same time it