BIOLOGY IN INFANT FEEDING. Ill The young of all these groups of animals derive nourishment from the parent's body until able to subsist on the parent's food. When one studies the physiology and physiological chemistry of all the different classes of animals, old and young, it is found that the bodies of all are composed essentially of the same materials; they all require and obtain essentially the same elementary food substances, and all have digestive juices which will digest them. So far, there is a unity in the animal kingdom. While the food of animals, old and young, shows a wide diversity of form, it has been found that their com- ponents fall into a few broad classes. (1) The protein sub- stances, which are distinguished by containing nitrogen; (2) mineral substances; (3) fats; (4) carbohydrates; (5) water. Each of these divisions, except water, comprises a genus in- cluding many specific forms. For instance, under protein there is classed a large number of substances that differ in form, taste, chemical composition and physical properties, their only point in common being that they contain nitrogen. Fats include butter, fat of meat and fish, olive and other edible oils; carbohydrates comprise cellulose, starch, dextrin, maltose, glucose, cane-sugar and milk-sugar. The elementary food substances are not met with in Nature in an isolated state, but mixed together in complex combina- tions and in a great variety of forms, such as hay, grass, mosses, wheat, oats, corn, barley, lettuce, spinach, celery, turnips, po- tatoes, bread, milk, eggs, fish and meats, sugars, molasses and syrup. It would be impossible to feed a dog on cut hay, or a cow on bones and meat. It might be proved by chemical in- vestigation that there was enough proteid in the hay for the maintenance of the dog and that it would produce enough calories to meet all of its requirements. The same might be proved to be true of the meat and bones given to the cow. Yet, it is plain that such a method of establishing the suitability of food is wrong, and that foods may be chemically right but practically all wrong. Many of the teachings concerning infant feeding have been along this line, and their principal effect has been to make very complicated what should be a simple matter. It will be seen, then, that when it comes to selecting the food for any species of animal, the form and physical condition of the food assume paramount importance.