67 BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. by a broad base. The case was so similar to the one operated on three days previously (reported above), that the bladder was at once suspected, and it was verified by opening the upper sac and examining the lower tumor from within. The opening in the sac was then closed by purse-string suture of plain catgut, the bladder freed from adhesions, carried towards the median line and the overlying fat fastened there by one suture through the conjoined tendon. The canal was then closed by the Bassini method. On the left side the canal was found full of loose fat, but no sac. The patient left the hospital on the 14th day perfectly healed. No recurrence January, 1908. Case XII.—Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 1203). February 13, 1905. A. W., age 61 (referred by Dr. S. W. S. Toms, Nyack, N. Y.). Large man of medium build; right inguinal hernia, three years' duration, supposed to contain omentum. A powerful truss worn but failed to retain hernia. Operation was performed at the Murray Hill Sanitarium, Dr. George E. Doty assisting. On opening the canal a tumor the size of a small hen's egg was found protruding inside of the cord and immediately above the pubic bone. Owing to its vas- cularity, the bladder was suspected, and on tracing anterior surface of the tumor it was found to dip deep into the pelvic cavity, following closely the inner surface of pubic bone. No hernial sac existed and the abdomen was not opened. The bladder was freed and pushed well towards the centre of the abdomen and the canal closed carefully by the Bassini method. The patient left the sanitarium on the 14th day perfectly healed. The patient had considerable pain for four or five months and hernia recurred about one year later. Case XIII.—Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 1234), May 2, 1905. F. E., age 38 (referred by Dr. Abrahamson). Thin man of medium height; double inguinal hernia for six months; no treatment. Operation was performed at the Post-Graduate Hospital. On the right side a tumor the size of an English walnut was found protruding inside of cord, with a very broad base and thickly covered with fat. It was considered suspicious and the peri- toneum was opened near the internal ring. The tumor was found to be an extra-peritoneal protrusion of the bladder, which was freed from adhesions, pushed well to centre, after inverting, and the muscles closed by the Bassini method. The opening in the