BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. 65 A catheter was tied in the bladder and the patient put to bed. The catheter was removed only for cleaning and was kept in place for four da}rs. Aside from some slight irritation from the cath- eter, recovery was prompt and apparently complete, the pa- tient leaving the sanitarium at the end of two weeks. He was seen at the end of three weeks and then made little complaint regarding his bladder, though he had some irritation on uri- nating. The patient went to Cooperstown on June 25, 1904. On the 27th, he developed a chill with temperature of 104°. The temperature subsided in a few days. On July 28 following, he had another chill with temperature 105°. Dr. Eugene Fuller operated July 30. The prostate was removed and found enlarged and hard. There was no abscess. Dr. H. T. Brooks subsequently reported in the pathological findings that the hardening and enlargement were purely of an inflam- matory character. Recovery was slow. On November 30, 1904, and again on February 14, 1905, a small calculus was crushed and washed out of the bladder. The washings from the bladder on both occasions showed some silk thread. At the time of the prostate operation, Dr. Fuller, at the sugges- tion of Dr. A. H. Cilley, who had been present at the hernia operation, examined the interior of bladder at the site of the hernia wound and found that it was all right. There was no silk there then or he would have felt it. The silk must have been extruded into the bladder after that date. Whether it may have been disturbed at the prostatic operation, which went through both bladder walls, it is impossible to say; certain it is that the presence of the silk gave the patient great distress and delay in recovery. Case VIII.—Para-peritoneal (Card No. 1177), November 30, 1904. W. C, a fat man, 60 years old. Double inguinal hernia, four years on left side and six months on right; truss-wearing painful and not retaining hernia. Operation was performed at the Murray Hill Sanitarium, Dr. George E. Doty assisting. Left herina of ordinary direct type was found bulging into canal. The bulk of the tumor protruded inside of the cord very low down. I opened into the peritoneal cavity high up and found that the lower swelling was the blad- der protruding extra-peritoneal. The split in the peritoneal sac