TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 258 difficult to prove the original implantation of the ovum after so many years have elapsed, on the other hand, it must be admitted that this has not been proved to be a case of true ovarian preg- nancy and, therefore, cannot be accepted as such. Stratz (1890).—This woman was a II-para and had gone through the two labors without special assistance. About a year after the last confinement she gave the usual signs of gravidity complicated with symptoms of extrauterine pregnancy. She went along in this way for about four months, when she consulted the author about the middle of May, 1889. Upon examination the uterus was found to be soft, enlarged and anteflexed. Behind the uterus a soft diffuse swelling ran along the left broad ligament. At operation the following condition was found: Uterus soft, movable, relaxed. Right adnexa normal. Left tube thick- ened. Under this tube a red cauliflower-like mass is visible. This ap- pears to be on top of the left ovary and protrudes into the abdomen. It looks like a blood coagulum. This diffuse growth which extends into the cul-de-sac of Douglas is allowed to remain, but the uterus and adnexa are removed. The patient recovered. Two months later the mass had disappeared. Hardened in alcohol, the tube is found not to be greatly enlarged. Tube and ovary free. No fetus can be found. Microscopically the tube is normal. The ovary shows myxomatous degeneration in places, also chorionic villi which are the site of myxomatous degeneration. As this case is almost universally quoted as one of un- doubted ovarian pregnancy, it has been gone into rather more fully than most of those preceding it. Reasons for having some doubts about it are: 1. The tube was not normal, even though it may appear to have been so at the microscopical examination. It had been hardened in alcohol and yet was by this process shrunk down to a size which the author calls not greatly enlarged. 2. Not even one normal chorionic villus was demonstrable in the ovary. 3. The ovarian ligament was not shown to be directly connected with the sac. 4. No fetus or the point of its im- plantation was to be found anywhere. 5. There was a large mass (placenta ?) which was not examined or removed at the operation and which remains unaccounted for. When it is recalled that this mass was located immediately below and in juxtaposition to the tube in question, one's suspicions become strengthened that this can not well have been a true ovarian pregnancy. Rosthorn (1890).—This is a case cited by very many authorities as an example of true ovarian pregnancy.