RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. 88 three, giving a mortality of 81 per cent. The child died in every case of complete rupture and when the child was alive the rupture was small. Variety of Incision and Character of Rupture.—The incision was longitudinal in thirteen cases, fundal in six and probably fundal in the remaining case of the twenty. Of the three fatal cases, two had had the longitudinal incision, one the fundal. In recent years the anterior incision has been used much more often and, indeed, there is no reason to believe that there is any advan- tage in the fundal incision. We believe that the greater fre- quency of rupture with the longitudinal incision is due to the very much greater frequency of that incision. The rupture was complete (by which Ave mean that the ovum passed out of the uterus into the abdominal cavity) in fourteen cases, partial in five and in one case unknown. All of the partial and eleven of the complete cases recovered. Treatment of Rupture.—Hysterectomy was performed in twelve cases, with two deaths. Suture of the wound was the treatment in six cases, all of which recovered, and in my own case the patient died before any treatment could be instituted. In Schiitte's case (No. 9)16, the operation was done some days after the rupture, and the uterus was well involuted. Whether the uterus was sutured or not we do not know. The results where the rupture was sutured were all favorable, and yet many operators perform hysterectomy for the treatment of the condition. In the hands of experts either plan of treatment will in most cases be successful, but in clean, simple cases where the tear is not * ragged, there is no reason why the uterus should not be sutured. Certainly, in the hands of one who is not expert in abdominal surgery and when the patient is in bad condition, the suture offers a quicker and safer method of treatment than hysterectomy. Quoting again from the statistics of Dorland4, which refer to rup- ture of the uterus in general, we find that the uterine wound was sutured in ten cases, only one of which died. Five of the nine women who recovered after suture became pregnant again. In three of these, labor was normal, in one case forceps were used, and the fifth was terminated by induction of labor at the thirty- third week. These figures, which indicate a mortality of only 10 per cent, after suture and the successful termination of preg- nancy in five cases, certainly indicate that the plan of treatment