EXCESSIVE GASTRIC SECRETION. 447 increases the quantity of the mixture. This corresponds to the withdrawal after a test-breakfast of increased quantity with increased acidity. On the other hand, the more test-breakfast evacuated through the pylorus at the beginning of the hour, the less diluted will be the gastric juice, especially if the secretion is slight in the beginning and copious at the end of the hour. This corresponds to the withdrawal after test-breakfast of increased quantity with increased acidity. There is another possibility: there may be normal secretion, and at the same time lively evacuation of the test-breakfast throughout the hour. The consequence will be diminished amount with high acidity. We see that a certain result of test-breakfast can occur with a gastric juice of normal percentage of hydrochloric acid, namely, normal quantity or even diminished quantity with high acidity —which, so far, has been regarded as the basis for the diagnosis hyperchlorhydria. It is clear in what direction our conception has to be changed. Instead of assuming that the neuroglandular apparatus of the stomach produces, in diseased conditions, a juice of abnormal acidity, (an assumption without sufficient support) we are led to believe that a combination of different functions—extremely changeable—(as quantity of the juice and the motility of the stomach) will account for the variable acidities up to the total amount of 100-150. We know that there are two sources for the gastric secretion. One is psychic, the other reflex. The pyschic stimuli of the secretion play an important part, but their effect is small in comparison with the stimuli arising from the presence of food in the stomach. It seems to me very probable that the latter stimulus will have to be held responsible as the main etiologic factor of hypersecretion. Cannon's most interesting studies have elucidated the physi- ology of gastric motility to a point of completion. Through them it became apparent how closely secretion and motility are linked together. It is the hydrochloric acid within the stomach which opens the pyloric muscle, and it is the hydrochloric acid which, as soon as it reaches the duodenum, closes the pylorus. Both effects are reflexes. There is no doubt that the amount