17 HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. Diet is an all important matter in cases of hepato-intestinal- toxemia, but we cannot emphasize too fully the fact that there can be no definite or dogmatic rules given to cover all cases. In other words, the results of the physical and clinical examinations obtained in each individual case must, in a great measure, be the guide. Certain general principles, however, can be laid down. The use of tobacco and stimulants should be positively pro- hibited. Coffee, as a rule, should be interdicted. Highly seasoned foods, condiments, salted, dried, smoked, or pickled foods of any kind should not be allowed. At times sweets can be given in moderation, as desserts in certain cases, but all such substances as candy, chocolate, cake, etc., should be forbidden. Sugar, taken in the morning on cereal, is a vicious habit, and if continued, it will cause gastral, intestinal and hepatic dis- turbances altogether unlooked for. When in bed, massage, Swedish movements, hydrotherapv, are essential aids to the treatment. No patient suffering from hepato-intestinal-toxemia should be put to bed without having regular, daily massage ; and yet, here it is has been our experience that there are certain exceptions, namely: in patients who are exceedingly nervous, it is, at times, wise to wait for a week to ten days before beginning massage; and, furthermore, in all cases it should be given mildly at the start. Disregard of this rule may cause very serious upsets at the beginning. Everything for these patients should be according to rule, time, and definite system. Schedules for each patient should be made out and handed to the nurse. Under no circumstances should the patients be permitted to see either their charts or their schedules. So far as drugs are concerned, our first object is to rid *the system of the accumulated poison. This we do by flushing-out the liver and the intestines. Aside from especial treatment rendered necessary by definite gastrointestinal complications, it is the writer's treatment to give these patients, three times a day, or before each of the principal meals, 10 grains of glycero- phosphate of soda in a large glass of hot water; to be sipped slowly. Care should be taken to select good preparations of glycerophosphate of soda, as many preparations socalled are very inferior. This especial part of the treatment can be kept up for weeks and months, with marked benefit. It is not only a good nerve-food, but it serves also to flush-out the gastro-