CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. 152 usual deformed position, with lower end of the fibula thrown obliquely outward, with the ends of fragments at the site of frac- ture drawn in towards tibia. With my chisel I divided the fibula obliquely as nearly as possible in the line of the original fracture. The tip of the internal malleolus had been torn off and had united by fibrous union, as in the previous case. I made an in- cision through this fibrous union and removed the fibrous tissue from the approximate sides of fragments. This done, I was unable even with great force to restore the foot to the normal position, or draw the astragalus to a perpendicular line be- neath the tibia. In order to further increase the mobility of the foot and thereby reduce the malposition, I drove my chisel in between the fibula and tibia until the lower fragment of the fibula was freely movable. I was then able, with the use of con- siderable force, to restore the foot to a normal position. The tip of the internal malleolus was then wired with two iron sutures to the tibia, (see No. 10). Two wire sutures were em- ployed to approximate the fragments of the fibula (see No. 10). The foot was then dressed in the slightly inverted position, a plaster of Paris bandage being used as the outer retaining dressing. This extended above the knee. No unfavorable symptoms followed, and the foot was dressed in two weeks. The external wound was nearly healed. A week later, the patient was obliged to return to Texas. He directed the subsequent care and dressing of the ankle. A few days ago I received a letter from him, dated February 9, 1908, not quite nine months after operation, in which he says: " I began to put some weight on my foot about 2h months after the operation. I am now able to walk without a cane and to attend to my business. The lateral motion and rotation are perfect. Flexion fair, with prospect of increase. It is perfectly straight, as you will see from the recent radiograph which accompanies this letter." (See Radiograph No. 10). On February 17, 1908, I operated on the right ankle of Mrs. J., age 38, who had suffered from a Pott's fracture, which occurred one year ago, and resulted in such displacement out- ward of astragalus, with marked eversion of the foot, that walking or standing caused acute and continuous pain. Radio- graph No. 12 shows the fragment of the tip of the internal malleolus carried outward with the astragalus, so it encroaches on