NEURITIS. 21 tactile anesthesia. The body temperature was sub-normal, ranging from 96° in the morning to normal at night, reaching the normal point about nine o'clock in the evening; from that time the temperature gradually fell and reached its minimum of 96° F. at about six in the morning. Occasionally there were febrile exacerbations preceded by chills, followed by a mild fever, rarely going beyond 102°, and generally, but not always, followed by sweat. Examination of the urine showed nothing abnormal except the continuous presence of indican and skatol. The examination of urine was made several times daily for over 30 consecutive days. In no instance did the urine fail to show a great amount of these toxins. Under treatment the patient gradually im- proved until at the present time the urine is free from putrefac- tive toxins, and has been for some three months. With the disappearance of the toxins the neuritis gradually improved and the patient is now recovered. Case II.—A man 48 years of age, moderate in the use of alcohol and tobacco, and with no history of rheumatism, con- sulted me for pain and numbness in the left arm. The disease had begun by numbness in the fingers. Very soon pain began in the same region, and gradually extended up the arm, involv- ing the entire arm, shoulder and pectoral region. At the time I saw him he had begun to have numbness in the right hand, the pain was very severe, continuous though variable. There was tenderness of the nerve trunks, slight tactile anesthesia and loss of muscular power. The reflexes seemed slightly exag- gerated. There were no symptoms of rheumatism, nor of any other constitutional disease. Repeated examinations of the urine showed the presence of indican, and of other putrefactive products at every examination. Under treatment the patient has improved, and is now practically well. Case III.—The patient, a man 54 years of age, whose life has been one pi tremendous mental activity for many years, was referred to me by Dr. C. T. Adams. He had the most in- tense neuritis, limited to the right arm and shoulder. He had never taken alcohol to excess, and did not use tobacco at all.. There were no evidences of rheumatism. The general symp- toms of neuritis were well marked. The examination of the urine showed putrefactive products continuously. Under treat-