238 THE POST-GRADUATE STUDENT. be too persistently emphasized by our governing bodies. I believe it is the only way in which the requirements of the post-graduate student can be met. I would welcome a curri- culum which would abolish long clinical lectures, or even the demonstration of cases in which the student cannot participate actively in the examination. All post-graduate work should require the student to come in close contact with the patient, in order to learn all the meth- ods of examination and practice, and to carry out the simpler forms of treatment and perform the minor operations. The work of the instructor should be merely supplementary. He should guide, aid, suggest, direct, and furnish stimulation and inspiration. It is only by such methods that the graduate student can be properly fitted for his work. The theoretical presentation of a subject can be easily ob- tained by reading. This can be done alone. Many of our post-graduate students are already well versed in the literature of the subject in which they are seeking objective knowledge. Laboratory work is one of the special branches which attracts the post-graduate student, and in which he often does the best work. It would be distinctly to the advantage of our school if the laboratory method of instruction could be adopted in clinical work. Besides the need of practical work, our students also feel the necessity for drawing fresh inspiration from the teacher. This may be given by carefully demonstrating methods of investiga- tion; giving him the opportunity to see and perform operations; making the course suggestive for his future development by indicating lines on which he may make observations after leav- ing the school, or even by suggesting original clinical or research work which may be carried out during his course. It is a deplorable fact that such an outline as this would not meet with the approbation of all the students. Unfortu- nately, some of them are more interested in watching opera- tions or copying prescriptions written on the blackboard than in doing the work which would qualify them to perform these operations or to use the prescriptions with intelligence. Effective post-graduate teaching demands the highest ability in the teacher. It gives the student something else than that which he obtained in his undergraduate course; for it not only