ON EXCESSIVE GASTRIC SECRETION. 440 BY L. KAST, M.D. Instructor in Medicine, New York Post-Giaduate Medical School and Hospital. According to present views, excessive secretion is divided into two forms: hyperchlorhydria and hypersecretion. They are considered as separate diseases. By hyperchlorhydria is under- stood an abnormal secretion where the gastric juice contains an increased amount of hydrochloric acid in the unit of quantity. By hypersecretion is understood a quantitive change of secre- tion, there being more juice but containing a normal amount of hydrochloric acid. Our knowledge concerning the increased secretion of gastric juice is of long standing. Excessive gastric secretion was recognized even when diseases were diagnosticated by subjective symptoms and sometimes by the quality of the vomited matter. The terms hypersecretion and hyperchlorhydria date back, how- ever, to the time when the stomach-tube was used for diagnostic purposes, and especially since systematic examinations of the stomach function have been carried out with Ewald's test- breakfast. There is no question that in the last two decades remarkable progress has been made in gastrology. Diagnosis and treatment have been put on a scientific basis instead of following empirical rules. These functional examinations, however, have not thus far fur- nished a satisfactory explanation of these secretory diseases, nor do they establish a reliable separation between each other. Es- pecially the relation between increased gastric juice and other diseases—like peptic ulcer, or chronic catarrh of the stomach, neurasthenia etc.—has not been elucidated, in spite of the enormous accumulation of clinical observations. A new phase in the understanding of these problems began with the work of Pawlow1 and his pupils, and with the studies of Cannon2 on the motility of the stomach. New facts have been brought forward and added to the physiology of secretion and motility. In the last few years the attempt has been made 1. Pawlow: Work of the Digestive Glands, London, 1903. 2. Cannon; Amer. Joitrn. of Physiology, 1907.